538 LEVATOR ANI AND COCCYGEUS. ^ ^ This muscle supports the anus and lower part of the rectum like a sling; and, with the coccy- geus and compressor urethraa, forms a muscular floor for the cavity of the pelvis. To see the muscle, the pelvic fascia must be reflected from its upper surface. It arises in front, from the posterior aspect of the OS pubis near the symphysis; behind, from the inner surface of the spine of the ischium; and, between these bones, from the ten- dinous line which marks the division of the pelvic fascia into the obturator and recto-vesical layers (p. 527). From this long origin the fibres descend inwards towards the middle line, and are inserted thus—the anterior, the longest, passing under the prostate, meet their fellow in the middle line of the perineum in front of the anus (forming the levator prostahe), joining the fibres of the transversus perinei and the external sphincter at the central tendon of the perineum; the middle, the most numerous, are inserted into the side of the rectum ; the posterior are inserted, partly into the coccyx, and partly into the median raphe between the coccyx and the anus, and meet their fellow beneath the rectum. The levator ani is supplied by the inferior htemorrhoidal, the two lower sacral, and the coccygeal nerves. The action of the levatores ani is to retract the anus and the rectum after it has been protruded in deffecation by the combined action of the abdominal muscles and the diaphragm. This muscle is placed behind the levator ani, occYGEus. ^^-^ should be regarded as a continuation of that muscle. It is triangular in shape, and arises by its apex from the spine of the ischium and the lesser sacro-sciatic ligament, gradually spreads out, and is inserted into the side of the lower part of the sacrum and the coccyx. Its posterior fibres are in relation with the pyi-iformis, its anterior fibres are continuous with the levator ani. This muscle is supplied by the two lower sacral and the coccygeal nerves. At this stage of the dissection, the bladder Dissection. be drawn downwards, and the branches of the internal iliac artery and the sacral plexus clearly displayed on the right side, by carefully clearing away the prolongations of the pelvic fascia which surround them.