G2G SARTORIUS. blood-vessel.' From tlie examination of two hundred bodies, tlie chances are about seventy to one against this unfavourable dis- tribution. But the possibility of it has given rise to this rule in practice—not to cut deeply in any one place through the stricture, but rather to notch it in several. By this proceeding we are much less likely to wound the abnormal artery, because it does not run at the base of Gimbernat's ligament, but about a line and a half from the margin of it.^ Such is an outline of the anatomy of the parts concerned in a femoral hernia. The normal anatomy in each case being similar, it might be supposed that all operations for the relief of this kind of hernia would be straightforward and pretty much alike; but this is very far from being the case: indeed, surgeons agree that they never operate without the expectation of meeting some peculiarity. The fascia must now be removed from the front Dissection. ^-^^ thigh, without disturbing the subjacent muscles from their relative positions. The mass of muscles, on the inner side of the thigh, consists of the adductors; that in the middle, of the extensors : the long thin muscle crossing obliquely in froa: from the outer to the inner side is the sartorius. In the middle are seen the femoral vessels, and the anterior crural nerve emerging beneath the crural arch. This, a narrow, flat muscle (fig. 149, i), arises Sabtorius. from the anterior superior spine of the iliuni, and from the ridge below to the extent of an inch. It jDasses obliquely like a strap over the front of the thigh towards the inner side ; and then descends almost perpendicularly on the inner side Of the thigh as far as the knee, where it terminates in a flat tendon which expands, ' The maseum of St. Bartholomew's Hospital contains two examples of double femoral hernite in the male, with the obtmrator arising on each side from the epigastric. In three out of fom- herniaj the obtm-ator runs on the inner side of the mouth of the sac. * During the session of 1867-68 more than half a dozen instances occurred where the obturator artery was given off by a common origin with the epigastric artery. In all these cases, however, the artery passed close by the bone, that is, behind the sac, so that it would not have been injured in the operation for the relief of strangulation.