814 CRYSTALLINE LENS. margin of the lens, forming the suspensory ligament of the lens, and known as the zone of Zinn. This is best exposed by removing the ciliary processes. It appears as a dark, radiating disc, and the surface is marked by prominent ridges, which correspond with the intervals between the cdiary processes (fig. 201). These intervals are in life filled with fluid, and perhaps with the vitreous. The hyaloid membrane, with the exception of the suspensory ligament, is a structureless membrane, but the ligament presents a structure consisting in part of longitudinal elastic fibres. Beneath the mem- brane, on its inner surface, are numerous granular nucleated cells, which exhibit amoeboid movements. The ligament assists in main- taining the lens in its proper position, and is firmly connected with its capsule. Q -p ^-^^ transparent membrane between the zone of Zinn and the margin of the lens be carefully punctured, and the point of a small blowpipe gently introduced, and air or fluid injected, we may succeed in inflating a canal which encircles the lens : this is the canal of Petit (fig. 201). It is about -jL-th of an inch wide, triangular in section, and bounded in front by the suspensory ligament of the lens ; behind, by the vitreous body; and its base, by the capsule of the lens. When inflated, it becomes sacculated, as in fig. 201, owing to the foldings on the front surface of the lens. Cbystalline The crystalline lens (fig. 198) is a perfectly trans- Lens. lucent solid body, situated immediately behind the pupil, partly embedded in the vitreous body, and completely sur- rounded by a capsule equally translucent. It is convex on both sides, but more so behind. In early life it is nearly spherical and soft, but it becomes more flattened, firmer, and amber-coloured with advancing age. In the adult its transverse diameter is about one- third of an inch; its antero-posterior, one-fifth of an inch. The capsule of the lens is a transparent, elastic, and brittle membrane. It resembles in structure the elastic layer of the cornea, and is much thicker in front than behind; in front, it is in contact with the posterior surface of the iris ; behind, it rests in the depression of the vitreous body. The capsule in front is separated from the lens by a layer of polygonal nucleated cells, and, after