587 STRUCTUUE OF THE SPLEEN. 'i-puscles, which, with their branched communicating processes, •:illecl the sustentacidar cells of the iiul]), make up a fine reticular issue ; the interstices of which are filled with red and white blood- ■orpuscles. Thus the areolas are divided into a large number of mailer spaces by these sustentacular cells, and the white blood- -Us contained within them are more numerous than in,normal ilood, especially in the neighbourhood of the Malpighian corpuscles. The cells have either one or more nuclei according to their size, and n-esent distinct amoeboid movements. In these cells frequently ^mall yellowish granules may be distinguished, which are probably lerived from blood-cells, for they present all the characters of baematin. Blood-corpuscles in all stages, from an unchanged disc uto one of complete disintegration, may be seen; and it has been bhown by Klein that some of them present knob-like projections, .-as if from budding of small nuclei by a process of gemmation. The splenic arteri/ enters the hilum of the spleen by several branches which ramify in its substance, ensheathed and supported by its fibrous framework.' The artery is remarkable for its large liize, as compared with the organ to which it is distributed, and Jalso for its serpentine course. The smaller branches leave the rfcrabecul^, still invested by a sheath derived from the fibro-elastic <3oat of the spleen; but, before they terminate in penicillate tufts, !:he sheath becomes changed into a thick investment of lymphoid I'jissue, which surrounds the smallest arterioles. The lymphoid i "issue, which forms the sheath of the arterioles, is here and there uiilated into oval enlargements, called the MalpicjMan corpuscles^ tvarying in size from ^V^h to -sV^l^ of i^^ch in diameter. These (bodies are sometimes thickenings on the side of the arterioles, but -nore commonly they completely surround the vessels. They are visible in a fresh spleen, and look like white spots scattered through jhe dark pulp. There do not appear to be any definite boundaries ■between them and the reticular tissue ; their interior consists of a fine reticulum, denser at the circumference than at the centre, and is filled with lymphoid cells possessing amoeboid movements. The ramaller arteries, after branching in all directions, enter the spleen ' The ramifications of the splenic artery may be seen by washing away the epnlp, and floating the flocculent-looking spleen in water.