815 STRUCTUEE OF THE LENS. death, a layer of fluid is interposed between the capsule and the lens, constituting the liquor Morcjagni; behind, no such layer of epithelium exists. No vascular connection whatever exists between the lens and its capsule.^ The lens protrudes directly the capsule is sufficiently opened. Structure of The minute structure of the lens can only be THE Less. made out after being hardened. It is soft, almost gelatinous in consistence outside, but each successive concentric layer becomes more dense, so that the central part is hard, and constitutes the nucleus. It is seen to be divided into three equal parts, by three lines, which radiate from the centre to within one- third of the circumference. Each of these portions is composed of numerous concentric layers, arranged one within the other, like the coats of an onion. If any single layer be examined with the microscope, it is seen to be composed of fibres about g-oVoth of an inch in thickness, running in a curved direction, and connected together by finely serrated edges. On a transverse section the lens- fibres are found to be hexagonal prisms, with very little connecting substance. Between the front of the lens and its capsule is a layer of flattened cells with well-marked excentric nuclei. The beautiful dove-tailing of the fibres of the lens was first pointed out by Sir David Brewster; and to see it in perfection, one ought to examine the lens of the cod-fish. The function of the lens is to bring the rays of light to a focus upon the retina.'^ ' The vessel of the capsule of the lens is derived from the arteria centralis retinte, and in mammaUa can only be injected in the foetal state. In the reptilia, however, the posterior layer of the capsule is permanently vascular. This small artery passes forwards through the canal of Stilling to the posterior part of the capsule of the lens, on which it radiates into numerous small branches, communi- cating mth branches in the iris and pupillary membrane. ' The lens contains about 60 per cent, of water, and 30 per cent, of albuminoids.