398 INTEROSSEOUS MUSCLES. others. It passes forwards, beneath the extensors of the thumb, on the second interosseous space to the cleft between the index and middle fingers, communicating here with a pei-forating branch of the deep palmar arch ; and terminates in small branches, some of which proceed along the back of the fingers, others inosculate with the palmar digital arteries. c. The dorsalis indicis, a branch of variable size, passes over the first interosseous muscle along the radial side of the back of the index finger. d. The dorsales jyollicis are tAvo small branches which arise from the radial opposite the head of the first metacai'pal bone, and run along the back of the thumb, one on either side. They are often absent. These dorsal interosseous arteries supply the extensor tendons and their sheaths, the interosseous muscles, and the skin on the back of the hand, and the first phalanges of the fingers. Remove the tendons from the back, and from Dissection* the palm, of the hand: observe the deep palmar fascia which covers the interosseous muscles. It is attached to the ridges of the metacarpal bones, forms a distinct sheath for each interosseous muscle, and is continuous inferiorly with the transverse metacarpal ligament. On the back of the hand the interosseous muscles are covered by a thin fascia, which is attached to the adjacent borders of the metacarpal bones. Transverse This consists of strong bands of ligamentous METACARrAii fibres, which pass transversely between the distal LiGAMEKT. extremities of the metacarpal bones. These bands are intimately united to the fibro-cartilaginous ligament of the metacarpal joints, and are of sufficient length to admit of a certain degree of movement between the ends of the metacarpal bones. Remove the fascia which covers the interosseous Dissection. muscles, and separate the metacarpal bones by dividing the transverse metacarpal ligament. A bursa is fre- quently developed between their digital extremities. Interosseous These muscles, so named from their position. Muscles. extend from the sides of the metacarpal bones to the bases of the first phalanges and the extensor tendons of the fingers. In each interosseous space (except the first, in which