490 QUADRATUS LUMBORUM. The combined action of the psoas and iliacus is to assist in raising the body from the recumbent position, and to fix the pelvis steadily on the thigh: this supposes the fixed point to be at the trochanter minor. If the fixed point be at the spine, then the muscle flexes and rotates the femur outwards. It is this action which often occasions so much displacement in fractures of the upper third of the femur. QuADRATus This quadrilateral muscle extends from the crest LuMBOEOTi AND of the illum to the last rib, and is contained in a ITS Sheath. sheath formed for it by the aponeurotic origin of the transversalis (p. 431). The anterior layer of its sheath is attached to the roots of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebras, and the posterior layer to their summits. The muscle, broader below than above, arises by two portions—one from the ilio-lumbar ligament and from the crest of the ilium for two inches external to it, and is inserted into the last rib, and by tendinous slips into the apices of the transverse processes of the upper four lumbar vertebrae; the other portion of the muscle arises from the transverse processes of the third, fourth, and fifth lumbar vertebrae, and is inserted into the lower margin of the last rib, in front of the preceding portion. The principal use of the muscle is to steady the spine; it also steadies the last rib, and enables it to serve as a fixed point for the action of the intercostal muscles and the diaphragm.^ By raising the quadratus, we observe the aponeurotic origin of the transversalis from the summits of the transverse processes: this constitutes the posterior part of its sheath, and separates the muscle from the erector spin^. Common Iluo ^'^^^ abdominal aorta divides, in front of the left Abtebies and side of the foui'th lumbar vertebra, into two great '^EiNs. branches, termed the common iliac arteries. They ' The respective attachments of the quadratus lumborum, the crossing of its fibres, and its mode of action, lead to the inference that it is a large intercostal muscle. It is worth remembering that the outer edge of the quadratus lumborum, in a well-gro\vn adult, is about three inches from the spines of the lumbar vertebrae, and midway between the last rib and the crest of the ilium. It is just outside the edge of this muscle that we can cut down to open the large bowel without wounding the peritoneum.