4 ARTERIES OF THE SCALP. Arteries of The arteries of tlie scalp are derived, in front, Scalp. from the supra-orhital and frontal arteries, branches of the ophthalmic artery which is a branch of the internal carotid; on the sides, from the temiwral; behind, from the occipital and •posterior auricular, all branches of the external carotid. The frontal emerges from the orbit at its inner angle ; it runs up- wards for a short distance on the forehead and inosculates with the following artery. The supra-orbital passes through the supra-orbital notch and then divides into a superficial and a deep branch. It distributes branches, some of which ascend towards the top of the head and communicate with the temporal and frontal arteries. The temporal, about two inches above the zygoma, divides into two branches—an anterior and a posterior. The anterior runs forwards in a tortuous course and anastomoses with the supra-orbital and frontal arteries ; the j^osterior (usually the larger) arches backwards over the temporal fascia, and its branches communicate with the corresponding branch of the opposite side and with the occipital and posterior auri- cular arteries. The posterior auricular is a small vessel seen in the cleft between the ear and the mastoid process. It ascends, and divides into two branches : one, the mastoid or occipital, which passes backwards and inoscu- lates with the occipital; the other, the auricular, which runs forwards above the ear and communicates with the posterior branch of the temporal arteiy. The occipital may be noticed piercing the trapezius near to the external occipital protuberance ; ascending over the back of the head, it divides into numerous branches which inosculate with the preceding arteries. The frontal vein passes downwards with its corresponding artery, and joins the supra-orbital vein, to form the angular vein. The other veins of the scalp accompany their respective arteries. Nerves of the The sensory nerves of the scalp are derived from Scalp. each of the three divisions of the fifth cranial nerve, namely, the ophthalmic, the superior and inferior maxillary; also from the second cervical nerve. The nerves to the muscles of the scalp and ear come from the facial, which is one of the divisions of the seventh cranial nerve.