RADIAL ARTERY ON THE BACK OF THE WRIST. 337 extensor secundi internodii pollicis, on the interosseous membrane, as far as the posterior annular ligament, where it presents a gan- gliform enlargement. Between the superficial and deep layer of muscles, it sends to each a filament, generally in company with a branch of the posterior interosseous artery. It sends a branch to the extensor carpi radialis brevior, and supplies the supinator brevis in passing through its substance. The supinator radii longus and the extensor carpi radialis longior are supplied by distinct branches from the musculo-spiral nerve. After the posterior interosseous nerve descends beneath the extensor secundi internodii pollicis, it lies in the interosseous membrane, beneath the extensor digitorum communis and the indicator. At the back of the wrist, beneath the annular ligament, it forms the gangliform enlargement from which filaments are sent to the carpal and metacarpal joints. Dissection radial artery is continued over the external Radial Artery lateral ligament of the carpus, beneath some fila- ON THE Back of ments of the radial nerve, cutaneous veins, and THE Wrist. ^-^^ extensor tendons of the thumb, to the proximal part of the interval between the first and second meta- carfial bones, where it dips down between the two origins of the abductor indicis, and, entering the palm, forms the deep palmar arch. In this part of its course it is accomjDanied by a filament of the musculo-cutaneous nerve; observe also that the tendon of the extensor secundi internodii pollicis passes over it immediately before it sinks into the palm. It supplies in this part of its course the following small branches to the back of the hand :— a. Posterior carpal artery.—This branch passes across the carpal bones, beneath the extensor tendons. It inosculates with the termina- tion of the anterior interosseous arteiy, and forms an arch beneath the extensor tendons, with a corresponding branch from the ulnar artery. The carpal arch sends off small branches, called the dorsal interosseous, which descend along the third and fourth interosseous spaces from the arch just mentioned, beneath the extensor tendons, and inosculate near the carpal ends of the metacarpal bones with the perforating branches from the deep palmar arch. b. The first dorsal interosseous artery is generally larger than the