177 RELATIONS OF THE ARCH OF THE AORTA. vein. Within its concavity, are the left bronchus, the bifurcation of the pulmonary artery, the left recurrent laryngeal nerve, and the remains of the ductus arteriosus. The artery rests upon the trachea (a little above its bifurcation), the deep cardiac plexus, the oesophagus, the thoracic duct, and the left recurrent laryngeal nerve. From the upper part of the transverse portion of the arch arise the arteria innominata, the left carotid, and the left subclavian arteries; and lying in front of these arteries is the left-brachio- cephalic vein. Descending jJortion.—This part of the arch lies upon the left side of the body of the fourth dorsal vertebra, and at the lower border of the body of the fourth, or the upper part of the fifth, dorsal it takes the name of the descending thoracic aorta. On its rigJit side, are the oesophagus and thoracic duct; on its left, is the pleura; in front, are the pleura and the root of the left lung; behind, it lies on the anterior common ligament, corresponding to the fourth dorsal vertebra. What jDarts are contained within the arch of the aorta ?—The left bronchus, the right pulmonary artery, the left recurrent nerve, the remains of the ductus arteriosus, and the superficial cardiac plexus of nerves. Eelations of These relations vary according to the size of the THE Abch of the heart, the obliquity of the ribs, and the general Aorta to the development of the chest. In a well-formed adult teencji. ^j^g ascending aorta is, at the most prominent part of its bulge, about half an inch behind the first bone of the sternum. The highest part of the arch is about one inch below the upper edge of the sternum.^ The branches given off from the ascending portion of the arch ' The relations of the arch of the aorta to the sternum vary even in adults, more especially if there be any hypertrophy of the heart. As an instance among many, we may mention that of a young female who died of phthisis. The position of the aortic valves was opposite the middle of the sternum, on a level with the middle of the second costal articulation. The highest part of the arch was on a level with the upper border of the sternum ; the arteria innominata was situated entirely in front of the trachea ; and the left brachio-cephalic vein crossed the trachea so much above the sternum that it would have been directly exposed to injury in tracheotomy. N