PELVIC VISCERA IN THE MALE. 5*29 lines tlie under or perineal surface of tlie levator ani, and is subse- quently lost upon the side of the rectum. The rectovesical fascia descends on the upper or internal surface of the levator ani, and invests the blaclder, prostate, and rectum. From the symphysis pubis it is reflected over the prostate and the neck of the bladder to form, on either side of the symphysis, two well-marked bands — the anterior trite ligaments of the bladder. From the side of the pelvis it is reflected on to the side of the bladder, constituting the lateral true ligaments of that viscus, and encloses the prostate and the vesical plexus of veins. A prolonga- tion from this ligament encloses the vesicula seminalis, the lower layer of which passes between the bladder and the rectum, to join its fellow from the opposite side. The continuation of the recto- vesical fascia covers the remainder of the upper surface of the levator ani as far as its attachment to the rectum, where it is reflected round this tube. Gexekal pelvic viscera are so surrounded by veins Position of the and loose areolar tissue, that he who dissects them Pelvic Viscera for the first time will find a difficulty in discovering IN THE Male. their definite boundaries. The rectum runs at the back of the pelvis, and follows the anterior curve of the sacrum and coccyx. The bladder lies in front of the rectum, immediately behind the symphysis pubis. At the neck of the bladder is the prostate gland through which the urethra passes. In the cellular tissue, between the bladder and the rectum, there is, on each side, a convoluted tube, called the vesicula seminalis, and on the inner side of each vesicula is the seminal duct or vas deferens. Before describing these parts in detail, it is necessary to say a few words about the large tortuous veins which surround them. Vesico-pko- Beneath the pelvic fascia surrounding the pro- sTATic Plexus state and the neck of the bladder are large and OF Veins. tortuous veins, which form the prostatic and the vesical plexuses. They empty themselves into the internal iliac. In early life they are not much developed, but as puberty approaches they gradually increase in size, and one not familiar with the anatomy of these parts would hardly credit the size which they '.sometimes attain in old persons. They communicate freely behind M M