MUSCLES ATTACHED TO THE SCAPULA. 323 sei'tion. Its nerve is the long subscapular branch from the poste- rior cord of the brachial plexus, and it enters the muscle close to its anterior border, in company with a large branch of the subscapular artery. This muscle lies behind, and to the inner side of the latissimus dorsi, ia closely connected with it, and assists in forming the posterior boundary of the axilla. It arises fi-om the oval surface on the dorsal aspect of the lower angle of the scapula, and from the fibrous septa between it and the teres minor and infraspinatus, and is inserted by a broad flat tendon, about two inches in length, behind the latissimus dorsi, into the posterior margin of the bicipital groove of the humerus. The tendon extends below that of the latissimus dorsi, and a bursa or sac, lubricated with serum, intervenes between the two tendons. The action of this and the preceding muscle is to draw the humerus inwards and backwards. Its nerve is the middle subscapular, and lies along the dorsalis scapulfe artery. This muscle arises from the posterior two-thirds SUBSCAPULAEIS. j, in n .1 1 .,1,1 01 the subscapular lossa oi the scapula, with the exception of the angles, neck, and the posterior border, and from the intermuscular septa attached to the bony ridges. Its fibres converge to a strong tendon, which passes under the axillary vessels and nerves, over the inner side of the shoulder-joint, and is inserted into the lesser tuberosity of the humerus, and into the neck of the humerus for an inch below it. The tendon of the muscle is intimately connected with the capsular ligament of the shoulder-joint, and between the base of the coracoid process and the tendon is a bursa, which communicates with the joint. Its action is to rotate the humerus inwards, and when the arm is raised to draw it to the side. Its nerves come from the upper and middle subscapular nerves. Serratds This muscle covers the side of the chest like a Magnus.. girth. It arises from the front of the outer surfaces of the eight upper ribs by nine slips or digitations, the second rib having two. Its fibres converge, and are inserted into the posterior border of the scapula in the following manner: the first two digitations are attached into the upper angle of the