821 MEMBRANA TYMPANI. membrane continuous behind with that of the tympanum and in front with that of the pharynx. The caned for the tensor tijmixmi terminates in the anterior wall above the Eustachian tube as a conical projection, in the apex of which is a small aperture for the tensor muscle; this projection is frequently called the anterior loyramicl. Lastly, a nerve called the chorda tympani (a branch of the facial) runs in an arched direction from the back to the front of the tympanum, and is covered with mucous membrane. Membhana The memhrana tympani is a thin semi-trans- Ttmpani. parent oval disc, which completely closes the bottom of the meatus auditorius externus. Its transverse diameter slightly exceeds its vertical, and its circumference is set in a bony groove, so that it is stretched, somewhat like the parchment of a drum, on the outer wall of the tympanum.^ Its plane is not vertical, but slants from above downwards, forming, with the floor of the meatus, an angle of 55°. It is slightly conical, the apex being directed inwards towards the tympanum, and between its layers is inserted the handle of the malleus which runs downwards and forwards to a little below the centre. It is composed of three layers : an outer, formed Strttctttre V ' J by an extremely thin layer of true skin; an inner, by the mucous membrane of the tympanum; and a middle fibrous layer; most of the fibres radiate from the attachment of the tip of the handle of the malleus in a bowed direction, so that the membrane is not a strict cone ; other fibres are annular, forming a circumferential ring close to the osseous ring ; these stretch over a notch in the upper part of the ring (notch of Bivini) so that the membrane is here flaccid and takes the name of the memhrana flaccida. The arteries to the membrane are supplied from the tympanic branch of the internal maxillary, the stylo-mastoid branch of the posterior auricular, the Vidian, and the internal carotid. OssicuLA The three small bones in the tympanum are AuDiTus. named after their fancied resemblance to certain implements, the malleus, incus, and stapes. They are articulated ' The transverse diameter of the membrane is 0'37 inch ; its vertical diameter 0-33 inch; and it is of an inch thick.