RECTO-VESICAL POUCH. 501 upper half of the rectum. Some of these structures will uow be described, while others cau be better dissected in the side view of the pelns. CouESE OP The rectum enters the pelvis on the left side of THE Eectusi. the sacrum, and, after describing a curve corre- sponding with the concavity of the sacrum, terminates at the anus. In the first part of its course it is loosely connected to the back of the pelvis by a peritoneal fold, called the meso-redum: between the layers of this fold, the superior hgemorrhoidal vessels, the continu- ation of the inferior mesenteric, with nerves and lymphatics, runs to the bow.el. The rectum does not take this course in all cases; sometimes it makes one, or even two lateral curves. In some rare cases it enters the pelvis on the right side instead of the left. Since these variations from the usual arrangement cannot be ascertained during life, they should make us cautious in the introduction of bougies.' Eecto-Vesicai Whilst the parts are still undisturbed, introduce Pouch. the finger into the redo-vesical peritoneal pouch (fig. 116). This is a cul-de-sac formed by the peritoneum in pass- ing from the front of the rectum to the lower and back part of the bladder. In the adult male, the bottom of this pouch is about one inch distant from the base of the prostate gland ; ^ therefore part of the under surface of the bladder is not covered by peritoneum ; and since this part is in immediate contact with the rectum, it is practicable to tap the distended bladder through the front of the bowel without injuring the peritoneum. The operation has, of late years, been revived, and with great success.^ It is easily done, and not attended with risk, provided all the parts be in their regular position. But this is not always the case. It sometimes happens that the peritoneal pouch comes down nearer to the prostate than u.sual—we have seen it in actual contact with the gland ; so that, in such a case, it would be impossible to ' In old age the rectum has sometimes a zigzag appearance immediately above the anus. These lateral inclinations are probably produced by the enormous dis- tensions to which the bowel has been occasionally subjected. - The bottom of the pouch is from three to four inches distant from the anus. ' See a paper in the Med. CMr. Trans, vol. xxxv. by Mr. Cock.