692 INTEROSSEI PEDIS. Transversalis This slender muscle runs transversely across the 'P^'ois. distal ends of the metatarsal bones. It arises by- little fleshy slips from the inferior metatarso-phalangeal ligaments of the three outer toes, and the transverse ligament of the meta- tarsus, and is inserted into the outer side of the first phalanx of the great toe with the adductor hallucis, of which it ought to be considered a part. Its nerve comes from the external plantar (fig. 160, m). The fourth layer of muscles consists of the interossei. These muscles are arranged nearly like those in the hand. They occupy the intervals between the metatarsal bones, and are seven in number, four being on the dorsal aspect of the foot, three on the plantar. The four dorsal interossei arise each by two heads from the contiguous sides of the metatarsal bones, and are inserted into the bases of the first phalanges, and into the aponeurosis of the extensor communis digitorum on the dorsum of the toes. The first is inserted into the inner side of the second toe; the remaining three into the outer sides of the second, third, and fourth. The plantar interossei^ three in number, arise from the inner sides and under surfaces of the third, fourth, and fifth metatarsal bones, and are inserted respectively into the inner sides of the bases of the first phalanges of the third, fourth, and fifth toes, and into the aponeurosis of the common extensor tendon. The use of the interosseous muscles is to draw the toes' to or from each other, and they do the one or the other according to the side of the phalanx on which they act. Now, if we draw a longi- tudinal line through the second toe, we find that all the dorsal muscles draw/rom that line, and the plantar towards it. This is the key to the action of them all. A more detailed account of these muscles is given in the dissection of the hand (p. 399). Be- tween the tendons of the interossei, that is, between the distal ends of the metatarsal bones, there are bursaB which facilitate movement. They sometimes become enlarged and occasion painful swellings between the roots of the toes. The flexor brevis minimi digiti, the transversalis pedis, and all the interossei, are supplied by the external plantar nerve. Now trace the. tendons of the peroneus longus and tibialis