520 ISCHIO-RECTAL FOSSA. The vein runs along the middle of the dorsum, pierces, first, the suspensory ligament, and then the triangular ligament under the symphysis, and divides into two branches which open into the prostatic plexus. The vudic nerve comes from the lower part of PuDic Nerve the sacral plexus, and corresponds, both in its course and branches, with the artery. It gives oflP, close to its origin, (a) the external or inferior hcemorrhoidal, which communi- cate in front with the superficial perineal and inferior pudendal nerves ; (h) the perineal which accompanies the superficial perineal artery, and divides into a posterior and an anterior branch; the former runs to the front of the ischio-rectal fossa, distributing branches to the sphincter and the skin in front of the anus; the latter lies in front of the preceding, and supplies the scrotum and under aspect of the penis; both communicate with each other and with the inferior pudendal nerve; (c) muscular branches to the transversus perinei, the accelerator urinee, the erector penis, and the compressor urethrse ; (c?) the dorsal nerve, which is the main trunk of the nerve, runs with the pudic artery, and with it pierces the posterior, and then the anterior layer of the triangular ligament; then perforating the suspensory ligament of the penis, it ac- companies the dorsal artery on its outer side, along the dorsum of the penis to the glans. In its passage it supplies the integuments of the penis, and sends off one or two branches into the corpus cavernosum. This part of the penis also receives filaments from the sympathetic system. Ischio-rectal This is the deep hollow, on each side, between Fossa. the anus and the tuber ischii. When aU the fat is removed from it, observe that it is lined on all sides by fascia. Introduce the finger into it to form a correct idea of its extent and boundaries. Externally, it is bounded by the tuber ischii and the fascia covering the obturator internus muscle; internally, by the rectum, levator ani and coccygeus; posteriorly, by the gluteus maximus; anteriorly, by the transversus perinei. The fossa is crossed by the external haemorrhoidal vessels and nerves. These deep spaces on each side of the rectum explain the great size which abscesses in this situation may attain. The matter can