COMMON CAROTID ARTERY. 81 arterv, the common carotid artery and its division, the internal jugular vein, the subclavian artery and the branches of the first part of its course, the cervical plexus, and the lower cervical nerves which form the brachial plexus; the phrenic, pneumogastric, hvpoglossal, and spinal accessory nerves, the descendens and com- municantes noni nerves; the subclavian vein and its tributaries ; and lastly, a small part of the parotid gland, and the three sterno- niastoid arteries. On the left side, in addition, we find the thoracic duct; on the right side, the right lymphatic duct. Course AND Eela- common carotid arterij is now exposed in TioNs OF THE the whole extent of its course in the neck. It CojiiioN Cakotid. arises, on the right side from the arteria inuomi- nata, behind the upper part of the right sterno-clavicular articula- tion ; on the left, from the arch of the aorta. Tt ascends in front of the bodies of the cervical vertebrte, by the side of the trachea, thyroid gland, and larynx, as high as the upper border of the, thyroid cartilage, and then divides into the external and internal carotids. Thus, a line drawn from the sternal end of the clavicle to a point midway between the mastoid process and the angle of the jaw, will nearly indicate its course. It is contained in a sheath of the deep cervical fascia, together with the internal jugular vein and the pneumogastric nerve. The vein lies on the outer side of, and parallel with, the artery; the nerve lies behind and between the artery and the vein. The structures contained within this sheath are separated from each other by a thin septum of fascia, so that each has a separate investment. Owing to the increasing breadth of the larynx, the two common carotid arteries, which at their origin lie near together, are separated by a wide interval at their point of division. At the lower part of the neck the carotid artery is deeplj^ placed, but as it ascends it becomes more superficial, although it has the appearance of being deeply situated owing to the promi- nence of the thyroid cartilage. In front the artery is covered by the skin, superficial fascia, platysma myoides, deep fascia, the sternal portion of the sterno-mastoid, the sterno-hyoid, and thyroid muscles, and, on a level with the cricoid cartilage, it is crossed by the omo-hyoid. Above this point the artery becomes more super- G