DISSECTION OF THE BACK OF THE FOREARM. 387 Trace the continuation of the superior profunda artery (p. 333) and musculo-spiral nerve round the posterior part of the humerus. They lie in a slight groove on the bone,' between the external and internal heads of the triceps, and are protected by an aponeurotic arch, thrown over them by the external head of the triceiDS. After supplying the inuscles, the artery continues its course along the outer side of the arm between the brachialis anticus and supinator radii longus, and inosculates with the radial recurrent. It gives off a branch, which runs down between the triceps and the bone, and inosculates, at the back of the elbow, with the anastomotica magna and posterior interosseous recurrent. The musculo-spiral nerve which accompanies the artery sends branches to supply the three portions of the triceps, the supinator radii longus, and ex- tensor carpi radialis longior.^ It then divides into the posterior interosseous and radial nerves. The small nerve must be made out which runs down in the substance of the triceps, accompanied by a branch from the superior profunda artery, to supply the anconeus. The cutaneous branches of the musculo-sjDiral nerve have been .already dissected (p. 326). DISSECTION OF THE BACK OP THE FOEEAEM, SuBcuTAijEous Eemove the skin from the back of the forearm, Bufis^. hand, and fingers, and make out the subcutaneous hirsa over the olecranon. It is of considerable size, and, if dis- tended, would appear nearly as large as a walnut. Another hitrsa is sometimes found a little lower down upon the ulna. A sub- cutaneous bursa is generally placed over the internal condyle, another over the external. A biirsa is also situated over the sty- loid process of the ulna; this sometimes communicates with the sheath of the extensor carpi ulnaris. Small hursce are sometimes developed in the cellular tissue over each of the knuckles. ' It is worth remembering that the nerve may be injured by a fracture of the humerus in this situation, and even by too tight bandaging; the result being paralysis of the extensor muscles of the forearm. ^ The brachialis anticus usually receives a branch from the musculo-spiral nerve. c c 2