SPERMATIC CORD. 845 ; inches in length. It, like the organ of Giraldes, is connected with a foetal structure—the Wolffian body. The vas deferens consists of an external or connective-tissue coat; a middle or muscular coat, composed of longitudinal and circular fibres intermingled with elastic tissue; and an internal or i mucous coat, arranged in longitudinal folds, and lined with columnar (epithelium. It can always be recognised from the other constituents I of the spermatic cord by its hard whipcord-like feel. Spermatic The spermatic cord begins at the internal ring, CoBD. traverses the inguinal canal, and extends to the testis, where its component parts pass to their respective desti- nations. It is composed of the spermatic vessels, nerves, and lymphatics ; of the vas deferens, with the deferential artery, a branch of the superior vesical; of the cremaster muscle, and the cremasteric artery, a branch of the deep epigastric. The coverings of the cord have been described with the anatomy of the parts concerned in inguinal hernia (p. 439). The spermatic artery in its course along the cord becomes remarkably tortuous; it enters the back part of the testicle, and breaks up into a number of fine ramifications, which spread out on the inner surface of the tunica albuginea. The spermatic veins leave the testis at its back part, and, as they ascend along the cord, become extremely tortuous and form a plexus, termed the pampiniform plexus. They lie in front of the vas deferens and unite to form a single vein, which on the right side opens into the inferior vena cava, and on the left side into the left renal vein. It is usually stated that these veins are destitute of valves; and this fact is adduced as one of the reasons for the occurrence of varicocele. It is, however, certain that the larger veins do contain valves. The lymphatics of the testis pass through the lumbar glands ; hence these glands, and not the inguinal, become affected in malig- nant disease of the testis. The nerves of the testicle are derived from the sympathetic. They descend from the abdomen with the spermatic arteries, and come from the aortic and renal plexuses, with a few filaments from the hypogastric plexus, which surround the deferential artery