38 FACIAL ARTERY. tlie pharynx. It is called tlie hticco-ijlMrynr/ecd fascia, since it supports and strengthens the muscular walls of these cavities. In consequence of the density of this fascia, abscesses do not readily burst into the mouth or the pharynx. Buccal and The buccal glands, in structure compound race- Molar Glands. mose like the salivary, are situated between the buccinator and the mucous membrane. They resemble the labial glands found beneath the mucous membrane of the lips, though somewhat smaller. Three or four other glands, about the size of a little split pea, should be made out, as they lie between the masseter and buccinator: these are the molar glands. Their secretion, said to be mucous, is conveyed to the mouth by separate ducts near the last molar teeth. Between the buccinator and the masseter, there is, in almost all subjects, an accumulation of fat. It is found, beneath the zygoma especially, in large round masses, and may be turned out with the handle of the scaljpel. It helps to fill up the zygomatic fossa, and being soft and elastic, presents no obstacle to the free movements of the jaw. Its absorption in emaciated individuals occasions the sinking of the cheek. The facial (external maxillary) artery is the Facial Arteby. ^^^^^ branch of the external carotid. It ascends tortuously beneath the posterior belly of the digastricus and the stylo-hyoideus, next through or under the substance of the sub- maxillary gland; it then rests upon the mylo-hyoideus, and sub- sequently mounts over the base of the jaw at the anterior edge of the masseter muscle. This part of the course of the facial mil be fully examined further on in the dissection of the neck. It now ascends tortuously near the corner of the mouth and the ala of the nose, towards the inner angle of the eye, where, much diminished in size, it inosculates with the terminal branch of the ophthalmic, a branch of the internal carotid. In the first part of its course on the face, the artery is covered by the platysma and the deep fascia; above the corner of the mouth it is crossed by a few fibres of the risorius and the zygomatici; still higher it is covered by some of the fibres of the elevator of the upper lip.' It lies successively ' Not infrequently the artery lies superficial to this muscle.