MUSCULAR. FASCIA AND ANNULAR LIGAMENTS. 645 It becomes subciitaneous on the inner side of the knee, between the gracihs and sartorius. Here it meets the saphena vein, and ac- companies it down the leg, distributing its branches on either side, till it is finally lost on the inner side of the foot and the great toe. The largest branch curves round the inner side of the knee, just below the patella, to supply the skin in this situation. It pierces the sartorius close to the knee, and forms with branches from the internal, middle, and external cutaneous nerves, the plexus jiatellce. The internal cutaneous nerve supplies the skin of the upper and inner aspect of the leg, and joins the internal saphenous nerve. The skin on the front and outer parts of the upper half of the leg is supplied by cutaneous brandies from the external popliteal or peroneal nerve ; the skin of the lower half by its external cutaneous b)-anch, as follows :— External Cu- T^his branch of the peroneal nerve comes through TANEous Branch the fascia about the lower third of the outer side OF THE Peroxeal of the leg; and, descending over the front of the ankle, divides into two. Trace them and you will find that the inner and smaller supplies the inner side of the great toe, and the contiguous sides of the second and third toes ; towards its termination it communicates with the long saphenous and an- terior tibial nerves. The outer distributes branches to the outer side of the third toe, both sides of the fourth, and the inner side of the fifth toe, and joins the short or external saphenous nerve. The outside of the little toe is supplied by the external saphenous nerve, which runs behind the outer ankle with the corresponding vein. The contiguous sides of the great and second toes are supplied by the termination of the anterior tibial nerve.' Muscular "^^^^ remarkably thick and strong. Besides- Fascia and An- its general purpose of forming sheaths for the nularLiga- muscles, and straps for the tendons, it gives ^^^^"^^^ origin, as in the forearm, to muscular fibres; so that it cannot be removed near the knee without leaving the muscles ragged. The fascia, continuous above with the fascia lata, ' Such is the most common distribution of the nerves to the upper surface of the toes. But deviations from this arrangement are frequent.