841 THE TESTIS. brane, called the tunica alhiiginea, to support the glandular struc- ture within. 3. A delicate vascular stratum, termed the tunica vasculosa, which consists of a layer of minute blood-vessels. The tunica vaginalis is a closed serous sac, one part of which, timica vaginalis propia, adheres closely to the testis; the other, tunica vaginalis refiexa, is the reflected portion, adherent to the . inner surface of the infundibuliform fascia, and loosely surrounds ■ the testicle. On opening the sac, it will be seen that the visceral layer completely covers the testicle, except behind, where the ■ vessels and duct are situated (fig. 207) ; and that it covers the outer part of the epididymis in front and behind, forming here a pouch called the digital fossa. The parietal layer extends upwards 1 for a variable distance upon the cord and below the testicle. The interior of the sac is smooth and polished, like all other serous membranes, and lubricated by a little, fluid. An excess of this 'fluid gives rise to the disease termed hydrocele. The portion of the process of peritoneum between the internal ; abdominal ring and the upper part of the tunica vaginalis testis ■ (the spermatic portion of the tunica vaginalis) becomes, in the ; process of development, converted into a fibrous cord, which may usually be recognised, but which is sometimes so atrophied as not ito be recognised. The tunica vaginalis testis was originally derived from the ]peritoneum. In some subjects it still communicates with that i cavity by a narrow canal, and is therefore liable to become the sac • of a hernia (see diagram, p. 444). Such hernia are called con- genital—a misleading term, since they do not necessarily taJse place at birth, but may occur at any period of life, even in very ^old age.' Sometimes the communication continues through a very contracted canal, open to the passage of fluid alone ; or the com- munication may be only partially obliterated, and then one or !more isolated serous sacs are left along the cord. Such a one, •when distended with fluid, gives rise to hydrocele of the cord. The tunica alhuginea is a dense, white, inelastic membrane, ' It would be a better term to call this lesion a hernia in the tunica vaginalis, denoting thereby its anatomical position ; at the same time implying a congenital arrest in development, and without limiting its occurrence to any age of life.