KELATIONS OF THE SPLEEN. 456 length, is an incli and a lialf broad, and contains fi'om eiglit to twelve drachms. The neck is inclined upwards and towards the left, and is firmly connected to the liver by areolar tissue, "j'he gall-bladder is in relation above with the liver and small blood- vessels ; below, with the transverse colon and with the first portion of the duodenum; its 7iGch is curved upon itself like the letter &, and bending downwards terminates in the cystic duct. It some- times happens that the gall-bladder, in consequence of some obstruction to its duct, becomes unusually distended, and occasions a swelling below the margin of the ribs, which might be mistaken for an hepatic abscess.' The close proximity of the gall-bladder to the duodenum and the transverse colon explains the occasional evacuation of gall-stones by ulceration into the intestinal canal.^ SiTDATioN OF The spleou is the dark, purple-grey, flattened THE Spleen. organ deeply situated in the left hypochondrium, between the stomach and the ninth, tenth, and eleventh ribs. It is placed nearly vertically ; its outer surface is smooth and convex,, to correspond with the diaphragm and ribs ; its inner surface, where its great vessels enter, is concave, and connected to the great end of the stomach by a broad peritoneal fold, called the gastro-splenic omentum. Its external surface is in relation with the diaphragm which separates the organ from the ninth, tenth, and eleventh ribs; its internal surface is concave, and presents a vertical fissure—the Idlum—situated nearer the posterior than the anterior border; it is at this fissure that the two layers of peritoneum are reflected from the stomach to the spleen, and the splenic vessels enter and emerge; it is in relation with the cardiac end of the stomach, the tail of the pancreas, the left supra-renal capsule, and the left crus of the diaphragm ; the iqiper border is rounded, and is connected to the diaphragm by a fold of peritoneum—the susi^ensory ligament; the lovier border is in contact with the splenic flexure of the colon; the posterior border is thick, and is connected with the left kidney by areolar tissue ; the anterior margin usually presents a more or less deep notch. Its hilum is connected with the cardiac end of ' See cases in point recorded by Andral, Chir. Med. torn. iv.; and Graves, Dublin Hospital Beports, vol. iv. * See preparations in St. Bartholomew's Hospital Museum.