581 STRUCTURE OF THE LIVER. supply the coats of the hepatic vessels and Glisson's capsule ; also capsular branches to the fibrous coat of the liver which appear on the surface of the liver in stellate plexuses; and interlohular branches which accompany the corresponding veins and pass into the lobules to join the capillary network which leads to the radicles of the intralobular vein. The interior of each lobule—that is, the space left between the several vessels—is filled by the hepatic cells. They are of spheroidal or polyhedral shape, with a diameter varying from ^ ^th to -g J-oth of an inch, and have no cell-wall. They consist of a granular sub- stance of a light yellow tinge, containing one or more distinct nuclei having a highly refracting nucleolus. In some cases the cells contain fat globules; when these accumulate in large quanti- ties, they constitute what is called a fatty liver. The office of the hepatic cells is to separate the bile from the blood, and, when filled with bile, to discharge their contents into the biliary ducts. The biliary ducts are the channels through which the bile is conveyed into the hepatic ducts. They commence as minute passages—bile canaUculi—which are formed between and around the hepatic cells, and then pass outwards to the circumference of the lobule, where they open into the bile-ducts between the lobules.' Here they form a plexus—interlobular—which opens into ducts which run with the hepatic artery and portal vein in the portal canals; eventually these join with other ducts to form the right and left hepatic ducts, which leave the transverse fissure of the liver, and, after a course of abou.t an inch, unite to form a single duct, the coraraon hepatic duct. The lymphatics of the liver are arranged in two sets: super- ficial and deep. The superficial may be divided into those on the upper convex surface, and those on the under aspect; the lymph- atics on the convex surface are:—(1) those which run back- wards between the layers of the falciform ligament, and then pass through the diaphragm behind the ensiform cartilage to enter the ' The biliary ducts between the lobules are lined with a short columnar epi- thelium, resting on a basement membrane ; but it is doubtful whether the bile- canaliculi are very minute ducts, or whether they are not simple intercellular passages between the hepatic cells.