188 SYMPATHETIC IN THE CHEST. filaments supply the coats of the tube ; but the majority of them are collected into two nerves—the one, chiefly the contiiiuation of the left pneumogastric nerve, lying in front of the ossophagus ; the other, chiefly that of the right, lyiiig behind it. Both nerves pass through the oesophageal opening in the diaphragm for the supply of the stomach : the left also sending fllaments to join the hepatic plexus ; the right sending branches to the coeliac, splenic and left renal plexuses. Having examined the contents of the posterior mediastinum from the right side, now do so from the left. The left lung should be turned out of its cavity and fastened by hooks towards the right side. After removing the pleura, we see the descending thoracic aorta, the pneumogastric nerve crossing the arch and sending the recurrent branch under it; also the first part of the left subclavian, covered externally by the pleura. The pneumogastric nerve must be traced behind the root of the left lung to the oeso- phagus, and the oesophageal plexus of this side dissected. Lastly, notice the lesser vena azygos which crosses under the aorta about the sixth or seventh dorsal vertebra to join the vena azygos major. Thoracic Por- ^^^^ portion of the sympathetic system is gene- TioN OP THE rally composed of twelve ganglia covered by the Sympathetic. pleura; one ganglion being found over the head of each rib, except the last two, which lie on the side of the bodies of the vertebrae. Often there are only ten ganglia, in consequence of two of them being fused here and there. The first thoracic ganglion is the largest. The ganglia are connected together by thick bi'anches, and each ganglion is connected externally by two branches with the corresponding intercostal nerve. The nerves proceeding from the ganglia pass inwards to supply the thoracic and part of the abdo- minal viscera. The internal branches which proceed from the six upper ganglia are small, and are distributed as follows (see the diagram):— a. Minute nerves from the first and second ganglia to the deep cardiac plexus. h. Minute nerves from the third and fourth ganglia to the pos- terior pulmonary plexus. The branches arising from the six lower ganglia unite to form