G3 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. thin tendon into tlie outer and back part of the sclerotic, close to the tendon of the superior oblique.' It is supplied by the lower division of the third nerve. The tensor tarsi muscle has been described in the dissection of the face (p. 34). OEBiTUi This is always very small, and is sometimes Branch of the absent. It comes from the trunk of the superior Superior M-ocil- maxillary in the spheno-maxillary fossa, enters L.VRT Nerve. Orbit through the spheno-maxillary fissure, and divides into two branches. Of these, one, the temporal, lies in a gTOOve in the outer wall of the orbit, and after sending a small branch to the lachrymal nerve in the orbit, passes through a foramen in the malar bone to the temporal fossa. It then pierces the temporal aponeurosis an inch above the zygoma, and supplies the skin of the temple communicating with the facial, and join- ing frequently with the auriculo-temporal branch of the inferior maxillary. The other branch, the malar, passes along the outer part of the floor of the orbit, imbedded in fat, and makes its exit through a foramen in the malar tone, to suj)ply the skin of the cheek over the malar bone (p. 49). DISSECTION OF THE NECK. Surface Before the stu.dent reflects the skin of the neck Marking. he should examine the skin surface, which in some places is raised, in others depressed, indicating thereby unevenness of the subjacent structures. The neck is bounded above by a well- marked transverse ridge, indicating the lower border of the inferior maxilla, and at its lower part the neck is bounded by another ridge which corresponds with the clavicle. Crossing obliquely from the centre of the neck below to the mastoid process above, is the rounded prominence caused by the sterno-mastoid, and crossing this muscle diagonally from its anterior to its posterior border is the external jugular vein, which varies in size in different subjects. In front and behind the sterno-mastoid are two triangular depres- ' On the action of the recti and oblique muscles, consult M. Foster, Text-Book of Physiology.