462 THE MESENTKKY. FoK.\5rEN OP This foramen is the narrow circular opening WiNSLow. between the greater and lesser cavities of the peritoneum, through which the two cavities communicate. It is situated behind the right edge of the gastro-hepatic or lesser omentum. By passing your iinger into it, you will find the foramen bounded above, by the lobulus Spigelii or caudatus of the liver; heloiv, by the commencement of the duodenum and by the curving forwards of the hepatic artery; in front, by the lesser omentum, enclosing the hepatic artery and duct and the vena portas; and behind, by the vena cava inferior. The several folds, formed by the reflections of the peritoneum, which connect the viscera either to each other or to the back of the abdomen, are classified respectively as ligaments, mesenteries, and omenta : the ligammts are attached to the viscera, and help to maintain them in position; the mesenteries pass from the abdominal walls to the lai'ge and small intestines, and maintain them in posi- tion and allow of blood-vessels to pass to and from them; and the omenta are broad, flat duplicatures which pass from the stomach to the neighbouring viscera. This is the fold which suspends the small in- Mesentery. testine from the back of the abdomen. To see it, raise the great omentum and the transverse arch of the colon. Its attached part or root is about six inches in length, and extends from the left side of the second lumbar vertebra obliquely across the spine to the right sacro-iliac symphysis. The loose part of the mesentery is very broad, and curves like a rufile, enclosing, the small intestine from the beginning of the jejunum to the end of the ileum. Its shape resembles an open fan, and its length from the vertebral column to its attachment to the intestine is about four inches. Above, it is connected with the under surface of the trans- verse meso-colon; below, with that part of the peritoneum which lines the inner part of the csecum and ascending colon. We must trace between its two layers the mesenteric vessels, nerves, glands, and lymphatics. Tbansverse This broad fold connects the transverse colon Meso-colon. to the back of the abdomen, and between its layers the vessels pass to and from this portion of the larger