LIGAMENTS OF THE SPINE. 295 muscles is to bend the head forwards. They are supplied with nerves from the anterior division of the suboccipital, and from the deep cervical plexus. LIGAMENTS OF THE SPINE. The vertebrae are connected by their intervertebral fibro-carti- lages, by ligaments in front of and behind their bodies, and by ligaments which extend between their arches and their spines. Their articular processes have capsular ligaments, and synovial membranes. Anterior Com- This is a strong broad band of longitudinal MON Ligament. fibres which extends along the front of the bodies of the vertebrae, from the axis to the sacrum. The ligament is broader below than above, thickest in the dorsal region, and its fibres are more firmly adherent to the intervertebral cartilages and to the borders of the vertebrae, than to the middle of the bones. The fibres are not all of equal length ; the more superficial extend from one vertebra to the fourth or fifth below it; those a little deeper pass from one vertebra to the second or third below it; while the deepest of all proceed from vertebra to vertebra. Above, it is attached to the axis by a pointed process, where it is con- nected with the longus colli, and it is thicker over the bodies of the vertebra than over the intervertebral cartilages, thus filling up the concavities of the bodies and rendering the surface more smooth and even. Posterior Com- This extends longitudinally, in a similar man- Mox Ligament. ner to the anterior common ligament, within the spinal canal, along the posterior surface of the bodies of the vertebrae, from the axis to the sacrum. It is broader above than below, and, like the anterior ligament, is thickest in the dorsal region, and is more intimately connected with the intervertebral fibro-cartilages than with the bodies of the vertebras. It sends up a prolongation to the anterior border of the foramen magnum" continuous with the apparatus ligamentosus. Interspinocs These bands of ligamentous fibres fill up the Ligaments. intervals between the spines of the dorsal and