6 NERVES OF THE SCALP. bone, and subdivides into branches, which are covered at first by the fibres of the orbicularis and occipito-frontalis; but they jDresently become subcutaneous, and terminate in two branches—an inner, which ascends, to supply the structures as high as the parietal bone ; and an outer and larger, which may be traced over the vertex as far as the occipital bone. The temporal branch of the orbital branch of the superior maxillary nerve pierces the temporal fascia about an inch above the zygoma, and is disti-ibuted to the skin of the temple, communicating with the facial nerve and occasionally with the following. The aioriculo-tenijjoral nerve, a branch of the inferior maxillary nerve, after sending a small filament to the upper part of the pinna, divides into two branches, wliich accompany the divisions of the super- ficial temporal artery; of these, the posterior is the smaller. The anterior communicates with the facial nerve, and with the orbital branch of the superior maxillary. The temjioral branches of the facial nerve lie superficial to the temjDoral fascia, and supply the attrahens and attollens aurem, the orbi- cularis palpebrarum, the corrugator supercilii and the occipito-frontalis. These branches communicate with the temporal branch of the superior maxillary, the auriculo-temporal nerve, and with the lachrymal and supra-orbital branches of the ophthalmic. The jmsterior auricular nerve is a branch of the facial, and divides like its accompanying artery behind the j^inna of the ear into a j^jos- terior or occipital branch which supplies the posterior belly of the occiiDito-frontalis, and into an anterior or auricidar branch which ends in the auricle, the retrahens and attollens aurem. It communicates with the great aui'icular and small occipital ners'es, and with the auricular branch (Arnold's) of the pneumogastric. The auricular branch of the pneumogastric (Arnold's) emerges from the auricular fissure immediately behind the j)iima, and supplies the skin of the pinna and the neighbourhood. The great occipital nerve is the internal branch of the posterior division of the second cervical nerve. After piercing the complexus it appears on the occiput with the occipital artery, and divides into wide- spreading branches which supply the skin. It communicates -with the j)osterior auricular, the small occipital, and the third cer%'ical nerves. The small occipital nerve, a branch of the anterior division of the second cervical nerve, runs along the posterior border of tlie sterno- mastoid and supplies the scalp behind the ear. It communicates with the great auricular, and with the two preceding neiwes.