CONTENTS OF THE ORBIT. 51 the inner side is tlie fourth nerve, lying on and supplying tlie superior oblique. F\scu. OF THE The fascia of the orbit provides the lachry- Obbit and Capsule mal gland and each of the muscles with a loose OF Tenon. sheath, thin and delicate at the back of the orbit, but stronger near the eyeball. It is pierced behind by the optic nerve and by the arteries and nerves of the orbit, while in front it is connected -with the ocular conjunctiva close to the cornea. The sheaths are firmly adherent to the nrascles, and their tendinous in- sertions into the globe are connected by the fascia. From the in- sertions of the muscles it is reflected as a double layer backwards over the globe, so that it resembles a serous membranous sac—a tunica vaginalis—one layer being loosely connected with the globe, the other lining the fat in Avhich the globe is set. These layers are lined with epithelium, and are separated by an external lymph space. This reflection of the orbital fascia is called the cajmde of Tenon, its use being to allow free movement of the globe. The orbit contains a large quantity of granular fat, which forms a soft bed for the eye, and prevents its being retracted too far by its muscles. Upon the amount of this fat depends, in some measure, the prominence of the eyes. Its absorption in disease or old age occasions the sinking of the eyeballs. Contents of In the middle of the orbit is the eyeball, sur- THE Obbit. rounded by more or less fat, and attached to it are six muscles which move it: four, running forwards in a straight direction, are called the recti, and are arranged one above, one below, and one on each side of the globe; the remaining two are called, from their direction, ohliqui, one superior, the other inferior. There is also a muscle to raise the upper eyelid, termed levator palpebroi. The nerves are : the optic, which passes through the optic foramen; the third, the fourth, the first division of the fifth, the sixth, and some filaments of the sympathetic, all of which jjass through the sphenoidal fissure. The third supplies all the muscles with motor power, except the superior oblique, which is supplied by the fourth, and the external rectus, which is supplied l)y tlie sixth. The first or ophthalmic division of the fifth divides into a frontal, lachrymal, K 2