THYROID BODY. 85 municating branclies descend on the outer side of the internal jugular vein, and form generally two loops in front of the carotid sheath, constituting a triangular plexus called the ' ansa liijjio- glossiJ From these loops the nerves proceed to the anterior and posterior bellies of the omo-hyoid, to the sterno-hyoid, and sterno- thyroid muscles. A small branch may sometimes be traced pro- ceeding from the descendens noni into the chest to join the cardiac and phrenic nerves. In some subjects the descendens noni seems to be wanting, in which case it will probably be concealed iviilim the carotid sheath : when this happens the reinforcing loops from the cervical nerves ■will be found behind the internal jugular vein.' The thyroid body should now be examined. Dissection* To expose it, reflect the sterno-hyoid and thyroid muscles from their insertions, so that they can be replaced if neces- sary. Next observe the lymphatic glands of the neck, and lastly survey the objects in the central line of the neck, from the jaw to the sternum. This very vascular gland-like body lies over the front and sides of the upper part of the trachea, and extends upwards on each side of the larynx. It consists of tv:o lateral lohes, connected a little below the cricoid caiiiilage by a transverse portion called the isthmus, and weighs from one to two ounces. Each lobe is conical, about two inches in length, and an inch and a quarter in breadth. Its base is opposite the fifth or sixth ring of the trachea, and the apex by the side of the thyroid cartilage. Its anterior surface is convex, and is covered by the sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and omo-hyoid muscles; its deep surface—concave—embraces the sides of the trachea and larynx, and usually extends so far backwards as to be in contact with the pharynx. Its external border overlaps, in most cases partially, but sometimes completely, the common carotid artery, ' By many anatomists the descendens noni is regarded as the combination of filaments from the hypoglossal and pneumogastric nerves ; by some, it is looked upon as a branch of the pneumogastric ; and lastly, which is most probable, it is considered by others to be mainly derived from a branch which is sent to the hypoglossal from the first and second cervical nerves.