THE CEREBRUM. 733 Fig. 174. (p. 9).' The cerebrum is composed of numerous parts—viz., of certain internal ganglionic masses, the corpora striata, optic thalami, and corpora quadrigemina; of commissural white fibres, the fornix, corpus callosum, and the commissures of the third ventricle; of the pineal and pituitary bodies ; and, lastly, of the two lateral hemispheres, which overlie and conceal the parts pre- viously mentioned. The cerebrum rests upon the anterior and middle fossffi of the base of the skull, and the tentorium cerebelli. There are three surfaces to each hemisphere: an external or convex ; an inner or median ; and an inferior, interrupted by the fissure of Sylvius. By widely separating the two hemispheres at the longitudinal fissure (the brain being in its natural position), we discover that they are connected in the middle by the transverse white com- missure, called the corpus callosum. In front of, and behind this mass, the longitudinal fissure extends to the base of the brain. The cerebral hemispheres, viewed from above, form an ovoid mass, broader in front than behind, and convex to correspond with the vault of the calvarium. Their surface is mapped out by tor- tuous eminences termed convolutions (gyri), separated from each other by deep furrows (sulci), which extend to a variable depth. Many of the sulci are occupied by large veins in their course to the sinuses; others are filled with subarachnoid fluid. The convolu- tions are folds of the brain, and their outer surface consists of grey matter, so that the extent of the grey substance is thus very largely DIAGRAM OP THE GENEEAl DIVISIONS OF THE BBAIN. 1, 2, 3. Anterior, middle, and poste- rior lobes of the cerebrum. 4. Cerebellum. 5. Pons Varolii. 6. Medulla oblongata. ' Examples are occasionally met with, where the longitudinal fissure is not exactly in the middle line, the consequence of which want of symmetry is, that one hemisphere is larger than the other. Bichat (Becherches pliysiologiques sur I la Vie et la Mart, Paris, 1829) was of opinion that this anomaly exercised a i deleterious influence on the intellect. It is remarkable that the examination of h his own brain after death went to prove the error of his theory.