MEMBRANOUS LABYRINTH. 832 to tlie membrana basilaris. The outer rods are placed upon nurue- rous fusiform nucleated cells, cells of Deiters, whose bases rest upon, the basilar membrane, and whose summits taper off into fine loner cubicular processes, plialangeal, which pass between the outer hair cells to be connected to the phalanges of the reticular lamina. The lamina reticularis is the net-like membrane surmounting the summits of the outer hair cells. It is an open network, of a fiddle-shape pattern, consisting of four rows of fiddle-shaped cells termed phalanrjes, through which the ciliated processes of the hair cells project. To these phalanges, as before stated, are attached the phalangeal processes of the cells of Deiters. The tectorial membrane (fig. 205, M t) is the only remaining- membrane to be described, and lies above and parallel to the basilar membrane, but does not extend more than half-way over it. It is. connected on its inner side with the limbus spiralis, and is then continued outwards, overlying and resting upon the rods of Corti; at its origin it is thin, subsequently it thickens, and then gradually tapers off to end in a free extremity. It is a strong, elastic mem- brane, distinctly fibrous, especially upon its inner and thicker part. Membbanous If the bony labyrinth just described be properly LABTfniNTH. understood, there will not be much difficulty in comprehending the shape of the membranous labyrinth in its in- terior—a structure supporting the ultimate ramifications of the auditory nerve. It has the general form and shape of the vestibule and the semicircular canals, although smaller, and it is separated from the osseous labyrinth by a quantity of fluid called j^ej-i- lymph or liquor Gotimnii, which is secreted by the delicate seroua membrane lying in the bony labyrinth. The membranous labyrinth is a sac, contained partly in the vestibule and partly in the semicircular canals : that situated in the vestibule is termed the vestibular portion; that in the bony canals, the membranous semicircular canals. The sac in the vestibule is so constructed as to form two sacs of unequal size, which indirectly communicate with each other. ^ ' From the utricle there proceeds a small canal, which lies in the aqufeduotus vestibuli; this is joined close to its commencement by a similar canal from the saccule ; thus forming the indirect communication above alluded to.