120 THYROID AXIS. muscles, and wliicli anastomose witli the deep cer\dcal, ascending cervical, and occipital arteries; it furnishes, however, lateral spinal branches to the spinal cord and its membranes which pass through the intervertebral foramina. Each spinal branch divides into two branches, one passing along the root of the spinal nerve, is distributed to the spinal cord and its membranes; the other ramifies over the posterior surface of the body of the vertebra. The cranial branches of the vertebral artery are mentioned at length in the description of the arteries of the brain. The vertebral vein is formed by small branches from the muscles near the foramen magnum. It descends in front of the artery through the foramina in the transverse processes, and emerging through the transverse process of the sixth, crosses the sub- clavian artery and joins the brachio-cephalic vein, its orifice being guarded by a single or a double valve. It receives the veins from the neighbouring muscles—the dorsi-spinal veins, veins from the spinal canal, the deep 'and ascending cervical, and the first inter- costal veins. In some subjects it communicates with the lateral sinus by a branch through the posterior condylar foramen. The cervical nerves pass through the intervertebral foramina behind the vertebral artery, so that the artery runs heldnd its vein, and in front of the nerves. The thyroid axis arises from the subclavian " ■ near the inner edge of the scalenus anticus, and after a course of a quarter of an inch divides into three branches,, which take different directions; namely, the inferior thyroid, the supra-scapular, and the posterior scapular. 1. The inferior thyroid artery ascends tortuously behind the sheath of the common carotid and the sympathetic nerve, to the deep surface of the thyroid body, in which it communicates freely with the superior thyroid and with its fellow. Besides small branches to the trachea, the oesophagus, and the larynx, it gives off— The ascending cervical artery which runs up close to the spme,, between the scalenus anticus and the rectus capitis anticus major, and terminates ui small branches, some of which supply these muscles; others enter the intervertebral foramina, and supply the spmal cord