LIGAMENTS OF THE HIP-JOINT. 699 The chief use of the ligamentum teres is to assist in steadying the pelvis on the thigh in the erect position. In this position, the ligament is vertical and quite tight (fig. 162); it therefore pre- vents the pelvis from rolling towards the opposite side, or the thigh from being adducted beyond a certain point. Another purpose served by this ligament is to limit rotation of the thigh, both inwards and outwards. Cotyloid The cotyloid ligament is an annular piece of Ligament. fibro-cartilage which is attached all round the margin of the acetabulum. Its circumference is thicker than its free margin, which is very thin, so that on a transverse section the cartilage is triangular. Both its surfaces are covered with synovial membrane, and its attachment to the margin of the acetabulum is effected by oblique fibres passing from without inwards, and inter- lacing in all directions at an acute angle. The ligament is thicker above and behind than elsewhere; it thus deepens the socket, and embraces the head of the femur like a sucker. It extends over the notch at the lower part of the acetabulum, being attached to a Tbahsversb ligament, the transverse, which passes across the Ligament. notch, and thus converts it into a foramen. Be- neath the transverse ligament some of the vessels and nerves pass into the joint to supply it. Stnoyial The synovial membrane extends from the carti- Membeane. laginous border of the head, round the neck as far as the attachment of the capsular ligament, on the inner surface of which it is reflected as far as the margin of the acetabulum. Thence it I; passes over the superficial surface of the cotyloid ligament, curves round its inner sharp border so as to line its deeper surface ; it then covers the osseous surface of the acetabulum, and is finally con- It tinued as a tubular sheath over the ligamentum teres to the head of li the femur. The synovial membrane, it will be seen, extends down to It the base of the neck of the femur in front, but only two-thirds behind. \] Between the bottom of the acetabulum, as far as the cotyloid notch, li and the synovial membrane, is a collection of fat and connective It tissue called the gland of Havens. The ligaments of the hip-joint are so arranged that, when we I stand ' at ease,' the pelvis is spontaneously thrown into a position