223 STRUCTURE OF THE LUNGS. 2)ai>sages'—-which are studded with numerous small saccules termed air-cells or alveoli. The air-cells are small, shallow, polyhedral depressions, from ^Q-th to -Vo^^^ of i^^^^ diameter, separated by thin partitions or septa which communicate freely with the intercellular passages, but not with each other, ^ The mucous membrane which invests the divisions of the bronchi as far as the intercellular passages is lined with epithelium of the columnar ciliated variety. At this situation the character of the epithelium changes to that of a squamous kind consisting of a single layer of flat polygonal nucleated cells. The structure of the air-cells differs in some important features from that of the smaller bronchial tubes ; the muscular tissue dis- appears, the elastic tissue is no longer arranged in bundles, but becomes frayed out and intermingled with the connective tissue. PuLMONAEY The j)ulmo7iarj/ artery conveying venous blood "Vessels. to the lungs divides and subdivides with the bronchial tubes, and terminates in a fine dense capillary plexus on the walls of the intercellular passages and air cells, beneath the epithelium. These plexuses—the pulmonary capillaries—form a single layer of capillaries which is so close that the interstices are even narrower than the blood-vessels, which average about -3-0V0 of an inch in diameter. The plexus which ramifies over the air cell does not communicate with the plexus covering another air cell. The blood and air are not in actual contact. Nothing, however, intervenes but the wall of the cell and the capillary vessels, which are such delicate structures that they oppose no obstacle to the free interchange of gases by which the blood is purified. This purifi- cation is effected by the taking in of oxygen, and the elimination ot" carbonic acid and watery vapour. The most complete purifica- tion takes place in the single layer of capillaries between the folds of membrane projecting into the cell; for in this situation both sides of these vessels are exposed to the action of the air. The blood, circulating in steady streams through this capillary plexus, ' Rainey, Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xxviii., 1845. ' The structure of the minute air-cells of the human lung is in all respects Bunilar to the large respiratory sac of the reptile.