BRANCHES OF THE BRACHIAL PLEXUS. 126 of its course. It frequently sends a filament, which passes in front of the subclavian vein to join the phrenic nerve. c. Nerves to the scaleni and the loyirjus colli muscles are given off from the lower cervical nerves as they leave the intervertebral foramina. cl. Nerve to the rhomboid muscles.—This arises fi'om the fifth cervical nerve, passes through the scalenus medius, and accom- panies the posterior scapular artery, beneath the levator anguli scapulaB, which, as well as the rhomboid muscles, it supplies. 6. The siqva-scapidar nerve arises from the cord formed by the fifth and sixth cervical n., runs to the upper border of the scapula, where it meets with the corresponding artery, and then passes through the notch in the scapula. In the supra-spinous fossa it gives off two branches to the supra-spinatus m. and an upper articular branch to the shoulder; it then descends behind the acromion process to the infra-spinous fossa, distributing a branch to the infra-spinatus m.uscle, and a lower articular filament to the shoulder joint. /. The posterior thoracic nerve (called external respirator]! by Sir C. Bell) to the serratus Duujnus arises from the fifth and sixth cervical (sometimes also from the seventh) in the substance of the scalenus medius. It passes through this muscle and subsequently emerges below the rhomboid nerve ; it then descends behind the brachial plexus and the subclavian vessels to the outer surface of the serratus magnus, to the several digitations of which it is exclusively distributed. (J. An articidar branch is distributed to the shoulder joint; besides some filaments to the constituent bones. It only remains to be observed that the upper cord of the brachial plexus receives a branch from the lower cord of the cer- vical, and that each of its component nerves communicates by slender filaments with the sympathetic. Beloiv the clavicle the plexus gives off branches for the supply of the arm ; namely, from the outer cord, the external anterior thoracic (to the pectoralis major), the musculo-cutaneous, and the outer head of the median; from the inner cord, the internal anterior thoracic n. (to the pectoralis minor), the inner head of