MUSCLES OF THE SOFT PALATE. 234 tlieir origin, and in the triangular space tlius formed is situated the tonsil. The chief use of the arches of the palate is to assist in deglutition. The anterior, enclosing the palato-r/lossi muscles, con- tract so as to prevent the food from coming back into the mouth; the posterior, enclosing the iMlato-fjlmrynfiei, contract like side curtains, and co-operate in preventing the food from passing into the nose. In vomiting, food does sometimes escape through the nostrils, but one cannot wonder at this, considering the violence with which it is driven into the pharynx. Muscles op the The muscles of the soft palate lie immediately Soft Palate. beneath the mucous membrane. There are five pairs—namely, the levatores palati, the circumflexi or tensores palati, the palato-glossi, the palato-j)haryngei, and the azygos uvulas. This last pair is sometimes described as a single muscle. To clean the muscles, the soft palate should be made tense by means of hooks, as they are severally dissected. This muscle arises from the under aspect of the Levator Pal.\ti. „ ,, , ,. p .^ . it apex 01 the petrous portion oi the temporal bone, and from the under part of the cartilage of the Eustachian tube. It descends obliquely inwards, and then passes over the concave border of the superior constrictor into the pharynx, where its fibres spread out and are inserted along the upper surface of the soft palate below the azygos uvula3, meeting those of its fellow in the middle line (fig. 54). Its action is to raise the soft palate, so as to make it horizontal in deglutition. It is supplied by the descending palatine branch from the spheno-palatine ganglion. CincuMFLExus This muscle is situated between the internal •or Tensor Palati. pterygoid m. and the internal pterygoid plate of the sphenoid bone. It arises by a flattened muscular beUy from the scaphoid fossa, and from the spine of the sphenoid; from the vaginal process of the temporal bone and from the outer and anterior side of the cartilage of the Eustachian tube. Thence it descends perpendicularly, and ends in a tendon which winds round the hamular process, where there is a synovial bursa. Now chang- ing its direction, the tendon passes horizontally inwards, and ■expands into a broad aponeurosis, which is inserted into the horizontal plate of the palate bone, and is also connected to its