INFERIOR MESENTERIC ARTERY, 4.7a of the bowel is practically interesting, because it enables one in almost all cases to distinguish the intestine from the hernial sac. The colic branches of the superior mesenteric are the ileo-colic, -which is the continuation of the main trunk, and divides into two branches : one supplies the lower part of the ileum, and the other the cpecum ; The right colic, which proceeds towards the ascending colon ; and The middle colic, which ascends between the layers of the meso- colon to the arch. They are arranged after the same plan as those of the small intestine : that is, they inosculate and form a series of arches which successively decrease in size, and finally terminate in circles round the bowel. The superior mesenteric vein joins the splenic behind the pancreas, and forms the vena portse (p. 470). ^ To trace this artery, the small intestine must be Dissection op . . THE Inteeioe drawn over towards the right side, and the peri- Mesentebic toneum covering the artery removed, since the Aetery and artery lies behind the peritoneum. It is given off Bbakches j r a from the front of the aorta, about two inches above its bifurcation, and is surrounded by the inferior mesenteric plexus of sympathetic nerves. Descending towards the left iliae fossa, it crosses obliquely over the left common iliac artery, passes between the layers of the meso-rectum, and, taking the name of sriperim- hcemorrhoidal, is finally distributed to the upper part of the rectum. Its branches are :— 1. The colica sinistra, which crosses behind the peritoneum, over th& left kidney, and supplies the descending colon. 2. The sigmoidea, which runs over the psoas, is distributed to the sigmoid flexure. 3. The sui^erior hcemorrhoidal, which supplies the upper part of the rectum, and will be dissected with the side view of the pelvis. These branches of the inferior mesenteric inosculate in the form of arches, like the colic branches of the superior mesenteric. The colica sinistra, too, forms a large arterial arch with the colica media, so that there is a chain of arterial communications from one end to the other of the intestinal canal (fig. 111).