221 STRUCTURE OF THE LUNGS. seen in the palest lungs. They vary in number and size, and in- crease with age. The source of these discolorations is not exactly known; but they are probably deposits of minute particles of car- bonaceous matter which have been inhaled with the air. The lungs are composed of caxtilaginous and membranous tubes, of which the successive subdivisions convey the air into closely- packed minute cells, called the air-vesicles; of the ramifications of the pulmonary artery and veins; of the bronchial vessels concerned in their nutrition; of lymphatics and nerves. These component parts are united by connective tissue, and covered externally by pleura. The part at which they respectively pass in and out is called the root of the lung. The lungs are the lightest organs in the body, and float in water, their specific gravity varying from "345 to •74G. When entirely deprived of air they sink. This is observed in certain pathological conditions ; e.g. when one lung is compressed by effu- sion into the chest, or rendered solid by inflammation. In the male the average weight of the right lung is 22 oz., that of the left 20 oz.; in the female the average is about 17 oz. on the right, and 15 oz. on the left side. The total capacity of the lungs in an adult male of ordinary height is 282 cubic inches; and the amount of air stUl contained in the lungs after a forced expiration has been estimated at 57 cubic inches. The difierence between these volumes—viz. 225 cubic inches—indicates the amount of air which can be inhaled, from the deepest expiration to the fullest inspiration, and has been termed the vital capacity of the Itmgs.^ The surface of the lung is closely invested by a thin transpa- rent layer of serous membrane, immediately beneath which is a fine areolar tissue, called subserous, which is very soft and elastic so as to allow of the free expansion of the organ. This tissue sends inwards prolongations, called interlobular, which map out the lungs into a number of angular spaces of various sizes termed lobules : those on the surface, indicated by faint white lines, are larger than those in the interior of the lung. Each lobule is a lung in miniature, and consists of a small bronchial tube and its termination in dilated ' Hutchinson, Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xxix., 1846.