644 CUTANEOUS VEINS AND NERVES OF THE LEG. descends lower than the internal malleolus. The student should notice well the tendons which surround the ankle-joint, which are easily recognisable under the skin: thus, behind, the tendo Achillis stands out prominently, having a deep depression on each side ; on the outer side, the tendons of the peronei, longus and brevis, are felt, the latter being the anterior. Running round the inner ankle we can only feel the tibialis posticus close to the tibia, and next to it the flexor longus digitorum ; in front of the ankle, but bound down by the anterior annular ligament, can be felt, from within outwards, the strong tendon of the tibialis anticus, the extensor proprius hallucis, and the long extensor of the toes with the peroneus tertius. The foot should be turned inwards, and fixed in this position. An incision must be made from the knee, down the front of the leg, over the ankle, along the top of the foot to the great toe; a second, at right angles to the first, on either side of the ankle; a third, across the bases of the toes. Reflect the skin from the front and sides of the leg and foot. Cutaneous Having traced the internal saphena vein (p. 613) Veins and to the inner side of the knee, follow it down the Nerves. inner side of the leg, in front of the inner ankle' to the dorsum of the foot. On the dorsum of the foot notice that the principal veins form an arch, with the convexity forwards, as on the back of the hand. This arch receives the veins from the toes. From the inner side of the arch the internal safhem originates ; from the outer side, the external saphena. The latter vein commences on the outer side of the arch on the dorsum, runs behind the external ankle, along the outer border of the teudo Achillis up the back of the calf of the leg, between the two heads of the gastrocnemius, and finally pierces the deep fascia at the lower part of the popliteal space, to join the popliteal vein. The external saphenous nerve accompanies this vein, as the long saphenous nerve does the internal saphena vein. Long Saphb- T^ie skin on the inner side of the leg is supplied NODS Nebve. by the long or internal saphenous nerve (p. 642). ' The French commonly bleed from the internal saphena vein as it crosses over the inner ankle, this being a convenient and safe place for venesection.