BRANCHES OF THE PROFUNDA FEMORIS. 639 In most subjects tlie profunda, for a short di&tance after its origin, lies rather on the outer side of the femoral and on a deeper plane, on the iliacus : in this situation it might be mistaken for the super- ficial femoral itself—indeed, such an error has occurred in practice. It soon, however, gets behind the femoral, and lies upon the pecti- neus, the adductor brevis and magnus; it is separated from the femoral artery, at first, by their corresponding veins; lower down, by the adductor longus. The branches of the profunda generally arise in the following- order : (1) the internal circumflex; (2) the external circumflex; (3) the perforating. The internal circumflex is given off from the inner and back part of the profunda, and then sinks deeply into the thigh between the psoas and pectmeus. At the lower border of the obturator externus it divides into two branches : one—the ascending—supplies the muscles in its neighbourhood, namely, the pectineus, psoas, adductors, gracilis, and obturator externus, anastomosing with the obturator artery ■ the other —the descending—passes down to behind the adductor brevis to supply it and the adductor magnus ; the continuation of the artery called the transverse, will be seen in the dissection of the back of the thigh, between the adductor magnus and the quadratus femoris. This latter sometimes gives off a small branch to the hip-joint, which runs through the notch in the acetabulum to the ligamentum teres ; it afterwards inosculates with the sciatic, the external circumflex and superior perforating arteries, forming the crucial anastomosis. The external circumflex artery comes off from the outer side of the profunda, runs transversely outwards beneath the sartorius and rectus between the branches of the anterior crural nerve, and then subdivides into three sets of branches, ascending, transverse, and descending. The ascending run up to the outer side of the ihum, beneath the tensor fasciae and gluteus medius, supply these muscles, and inosculate with the termi- nal branches of the gluteal and deep circumflex ihac arteries. The transverse pass directly outwards over the crureus, then enter the vastus externus, and get between the muscle and the femur. They inosculate with the sciatic, the internal circumflex, the gluteal, and the perforating arteries. The descending, two or more in number, of considerable size, run do\vn between the rectus and crureus, and supply both these muscles : one branch, larger than the rest, runs do^vn in the substance