107 OCCIPITAL ARTERY. Hngufil artery, because tlie vessel arose from the facial behind the submaxillary gland, and then passed through the mylo-hyoideus to reach the tongue. OccEPiTAi, The occipital artery arises from the posterior Akteby. part of the external carotid, usually opposite the facial artery, and runs upwards and backwards along the lower border of the digastricus towards the mastoid process. It passes then under the posterior belly of the digastricus, and further on in its course it lies in the interval between the transverse process of the atlas and the mastoid process, close to the rectus capitis lateralis; it now changes its direction, for it runs horizontally backwards in the occipital groove of the temporal bone, under all the muscles attached to the mastoid process-^—namely, the sterno-mastoid, the splenius capitis, the trachelo-mastoid, and the digastricus, and it lies on the superior oblique and the com plexus. Arrived at the back of the head, the artery pierces the cranial attachment of the trapezius, and ascending, divides into wide-spreading branches for the supply of the scalp. In the first part of its course, the occipital artery crosses over the internal carotid artery, the internal jugular vein, the pneumo- gastric and the spinal accessory nerves, and is itself crossed by the hypoglossal nerve. It sends off the seven following branches :— 1. Muscidar branches to the digastric, stylo-hyoid, splenius, and trachelo-mastoid muscles. 2. The superior sterno-mastoid, which enters the muscle with the nervus accessorius. 3. The auricular ramifies on the cranial aspect of the concha. 4. The 2)osterior meningeal ascends with the internal jugular vein, und enters the cranium through the foramen jugulare to supply the dura mater of the posterior fossa. 5. The princeps cervicis, which we shall see better hereafter, is a short trunk which runs down the back of the neck, and divides into two branches—a superficial, lying beneath the splenius, and supplying also the trapezius, and a deep branch lying under the complexus, and anastomosing with branches of the vertebral and with the deep cervical branch of the superior intercostal artery between this muscle and tlie semi-spinalis colli.