346 EADIAL ARTERY. acts much more powerfully as a flexor of the forearm. It is supplied by the musculo-spiral nerve. ^ ^ The radial artery, the smaller division of the brachial, runs down the radial side of the forearm to the wrist, where it turns over the external lateral ligament of the carpus, beneath the extensor tendons of the thumb, and sinks into the angle between the first and second metacarpal bones to form the deep palmar arch. Thus, its course corresponds with a line drawn from the middle of the bend of the elbow to the front of the styloid process of the radius. In the upper third of the forearm, the artery lies deep between the pronator teres on the inner and the supinator longus on the outer side ; the fleshy border of the latter overlaps it in muscular subjects. In the lower two-thirds of the forearm "the artery is more superficial, and is placed between the tendons of the supi- nator longus on the outer and the flexor carpi radial is on the inner side. In its course, it lies successively on the following :—first, upon the tendon of the biceps ; secondly, upon the supinator radii brevis ; thirdly, upon the insertion of the pronator teres; fourthly, upon the radial origin of the flexor sublimis ; fifthly, upon the flexor longus pollicis ; sixthly, upon the pronator quadratus, and lastly, upon the lower end- of the radius. The artery then turns round the outer side of the wrist-joint, lying upon the external lateral ligament, and covered by the tendons of the extensores ossi metacarpi, and primi internodii pollicis, some cutaneous veins and branches of the radial nerve ; next, it lies upon the trapezium ; it is then crossed by the extensor secundi internodii pollicis ; and, lastly, passing between the two heads of the first dorsal interosseous muscle, it enters the palm to form the deep palmar arch. It is accompanied by two veins, which communicate at frequent inter- vals, and join the venge comites of the brachial artery at the bend of the elbow. In the middle third of its course the artery is accompanied by the radial nerve (a branch of the musculo-spiral), which lies to its outer side. Below this point, the nerve leaves the artery, and passes, under the tendon of the supinator longus, to the back of the hand.