URETER AND VAS DEFERENS. 535 The neck is the narrow portion •where the urethra begins, and 1 its direction is downwards and forwards. It is embraced by the prostate gland. The ureter ' is about seventeen inches long, and conveys the urine from the kidney to the bladder. In the dissection of the abdomen (p. 477), it was seen descending i aJoog the psoas muscle, behind the spermatic vessels, and crossing • the common iliac artery into the pelvis. Tracing it downwards, in the posterior false ligament of the bladder, below the obliterated hj-pogastric artery, we find that it runs along the side of the bladder, external to the vas deferens, and enters it about an inch and a half behind the prostate, and about two inches from its fellow of the opposite side (fig. 128). It perforates the bladder very obliquely, so that the aperture, being valvular, allows the urine to flow into, but not out of it. The narrowest part of the ureter is at the vesical orifice; here, therefore, a calculus is more likely to be arrested in its progress than at any other part of the canal. This tube, about twenty-four inches in length, V.is Deferens. o j conveys the seminal fluid from the testicle into the prostatic part of the urethra. Taking its origin at the lower part of the globus minor behind the testis, it ascends at the back part of the testis and epididymis, along the back of the spermatic cord through the inguinal canal into the abdomen ; then, leaving the cord at the inner ring, it curves round the deep epigastric artery, then crosses over the external iliac vessels, and descends into the pelvis on the side of the bladder, gradually approaching nearer the middle line. Before it reaches the prostate, it passes be- tween the bladder and the ureter; then, becoming very sacculated, it runs forwards internal to the vesicula seminalis, and is joined by the duct of this vesicle. The common duct thus formed, dudm communis ejaculatorius, terminates in the lower part of the pro- static portion of the urethra (fig. 128, p. 533). In point of size and hardness, the vas deferens has very much the feel of whipcord,^ its canal not being more than -^^th of an inch in diameter. ' From oiipeu, I pass urine. ' The description m the text assumes the bladder to be distended. But when