CARDIAC PLEXUS. 196 of the arch of tlie aorta in front of the right pulmonary artery. It is closely connected with the deep plexus. It receives the upper cardiac branch of the left sympathetic, the lower cervical cardiac branch from the left pneumogastric, and filaments from the deep plexus. In it is usually found a small ganglion, r/anglion of Wrisherg, placed beneath the arch of the aorta on the right side of the ductus arteriosus. This plexus distributes branches to the anterior coronary and the anterior pulmonary plexuses. The deeper and larger cardiac'plexus is situated behind the arch of the aorta in front of the bifurcation of the trachea and imme- diately above the right pulmonary artery. To see it the peri- cardial covering of the aorta must be carefully removed and the vessel hooked forwards and to the left. This plexus is formed by all the cardiac branches of the right and left sympathetic ganglia, and by the cardiac branches of the pneumogastric and recurrent laryngeal nerves, except the left superior cardiac branch of the sympathetic and the left cervical cardiac branch of the pneumo- gastric, both of which pass to the superficial cardiac plexus. The branches from the right side of this plexus descend chiefly in front of the pulmonary artery and pass to the anterior pulmonary plexus, and to the anterior coronary plexus; a few branches which pass behind the pulmonaiy artery are distributed to the right auricle and to the posterior coronary plexus. The branches from the left side of the plexus go to the left auricle, the anterior pulmonary plexus, but chiefly to the posterior coronary plexus. From the cardiac plexuses, as a common centre, the nerves pass off" to the heart, forming plexuses around the coronary arteries. Thus, the anterior coronary plexus (derived chiefly from the super- ficial cardiac) accompanies the anterior coronary artery. The posterior coronanj plexus (derived chiefly from the left side of the deep cardiac) runs with the posterior coronary artery. The two plexuses communicate at the apex of the heart, and in the ventri- cular septum. It is not an easy matter to trace the nerves into the substance of the heart. For this purpose a horse's heart is the best, and previous maceration in water is desirable. The nerves in the substance of the heart are peculiar in this respect; that they