FASCIA LATA. 615 the internal cutaneous nerve unites below the adductor longus in a plexiform manner with the long saphenous and obturator nerves.' d. The crural branch of the genito-crural nerve perforates the anterior layer of the sheath of the femoral vessels, comes through the fascia lata immediately below Poupart's ligament, and supplies the skin, in front of the thigh. About two or three inches below the crural arch it usually communicates with the middle cutaneous nerve. It also distributes a few filaments to the femoral artery in its passage under the crural arch. e. The inguinal branch of the ilio-inguinal nerve, after emerging from the external abdominal ring, supplies the skin on the inner aspect of the upper third of the thigh. ^ ^ Remove the subcutaneous fat and the deeper layer of the superficial fascia, to examine the dense white fascia—the fascia lata—of the thigh. The use of this fascia is to cover the muscles of the thigh collectively, and to form separate sheaths for each; so that it not only keeps them together, but maintains each in its jjroper position. A knowledge of these sheaths is important, because they interfere with the progress of deep-seated matter towards the surface, and cause it to burrow in this or that direction according to the part in which it forms. The fascia is not of equal strength all round the thigh. It is comparatively thin on the inner side; exceedingly thick and strong down the outer side ; here, indeed, it has the appearance of a dense expanded aponeurosis, strapping down the vastus externus muscle, and is sometimes called the ilio-tibial band; and it certainly per- forms the office of a tendon, for it gives insertion between its two layers to two powerful muscles—namely, the tensor fasciae femoris, and the gluteus maximus (fig. 144). The fascia lata is attached to the margin of the bones which constitute the framework of the lower extremity. Beginning from above, its attachment can be traced from the posterior surface of the sacrum and coccyx, along the crest of the iliiim, thence along ' It is important to note that one, sometimes two, of these branches of the internal cutaneous crosses the sheath of the femoral artery, just where the sartorius begins to overlap it, and therefore at the spot where it is usually tied. See diagram, p. 028. ;