EXIT OF THE CRANIAL NERVES. 19 it. From this ganglion proceed tHe tliree primary divisions of the nerve—the opMlicdmic, which passes through the outer wall of the cavernous sinus below the fourth nerve, and subsequently enters the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure ; while in the cavernous sinus this nerve receives filaments of communication from the cavernous plexus, and also sends back a recurrent branch to supply the tentorium cerebelli (Arnold); the ophthalmic nerve is fre- quently intimately connected with a branch from the fourth nerve : it is also connected by a small branch with the sixth nerve; the superior maxillary, which gives olf a small recurrent branch to the dura mater and middle meningeal artery, and then leaves the skull through the foramen rotundum ; and the inferior maxillary, which passes through the foramen ovale. The smaller or motor root of the fifth lies beneath the ganglion, with which it has no communi- cation, and then joins the inferior maxillary division to supply the muscles of mastication with motor power. The sixth (abducens) nerve pierces the dura mater behind the body of the sphenoid bone, which it grooves. It then passes along the inner wall of the cavernous sinus, external to the internal carotid artery, and enters the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure to supply the external rectus, between the two heads of which it passes. It is connected, as it passes along the inner wall of the cavernous sinus, with the cavernous plexus, the ophthalmic nerve, and in the orbit with Meckel's ganglion. The seventh or facial nerve passes through the meatus audi- torius internus together with the auditory nerve and artery. As it passes along the meatus it is separated from the auditory nerve, upon which it lies, by the portio intermedia. At the bottom of the auditory meatus, the facial nerve leaves the auditory to traverse a tortuous bony canal, the ' aqueeductus Fallopii.' In the meatus auditorius, the facial and the auditory nerves are connected by small filaments. The eiglLth or auditory nerve passes outwards through the internal auditory meatus in company with the preceding nerve. It is the larger of the two nerves, and lies below the facial, which lies in a groove on this nerve. In the meatus the auditory divides into two branches, cochlear and vestibular. c 2