53 LACHRYMAL GLAND. infra-troolilear branch of the nasal, and then divides, after passing between the bone and the orbicularis palpebrarum, into filaments which supply the skin of the upper eyelid, forehead, and nose. One or two small lilaments may be traced through the bone to the mucous mem- brane of the frontal sinuses. • h. The mpra-orbital is the continuation of the frontal nerve, and runs forwards on the levator palpebrte to the sui^ra-orbital notch, thi'ough which it ascends to supply the skin of the upjaer eyelid, fore- head, pericranium, and scalp. Its cutaneous branches, an inner and an outer, which run upwards beneath the occipito-frontalis, have been described in the dissection of the scalp (p. 5). It supplies with common sensation the orbicularis palpebrarum, the occipito-frontalis, and the corrugator supercilii, where it joins the facial nerve. Lachrymal This is the smallest of the three branches of the Nerve. ophthalmic nerve. It runs along the upper border of the external rectus on the outer side of the orbit with the lachrymal artery, through the lachrymal gland, which it supplies as well as the upper eyelid. Its branches within the orbit are : 1, a branch which passes down behind the lachrymal gland to communi- cate with the orbital branch of the superior maxillary nerve; 2. filaments to the lachrymal gland. It then pierces the palpebral ligament to supply the skin of the upper eyelid. Fourth Cra- This nerve enters the orbit through the sphe- Ni.tL Nerve. noidal fissure above the other nerves. It runs along the inner side of the frontal nerve, and enters the upper or orbital surface of the superior oblique, to which it is solely distri- buted. This nen^e is joined in the outer wall of the cavern- ous sinus by filaments from the sympathetic. It communicates occasionally with the lachrymal, and the ophthalmic division of the fifth. Here also it sends backwards two or more filaments to supply the tentorium cerebelli. Lachrymal This gland is situated below the external GhiLiiB. angular process of the frontal bone. It is about the size and shape of an almond. Its upper surface is convex, in adaptation to the roof of the orbit; its lower is concave, in adap- tation to the eyeball, and rests upon the external and superior ' These filaments have been described by Blumenbach, De Sinibus Frontalibm.