PLEURA. IGO diaphragm, to the sixth, seventh, and sometimes the eighth intercostal spaces. Two vena3 comites accompany the artery, and form a single trunk at the upper part of the chest, which terminates in tlie brachio-cephalic vein of its own side. Lymphatic There are several lymj^hatic glands in the neigh- Glands. bourhood of the internal mammary artery. They receive the lymphatics from the upper part of the abdominal wall, the diaphragm, the inner portion of the mammary gland, and the intercostal spaces. On the right side they terminate in the right lymphatic duct, on the left in the thoracic duct. In disease of the inner portion of the mamma, these glands may enlarge without any enlargement of those in the axilla, p ^ As the lungs are constantly gliding to and fro within the chest they are provided with a serous membrane to facilitate their motion. This membrane is termed the 'pleura. There is one for each lung. Each pleura forms a com- pletely closed sac, and, like all other serous sacs, has a imrietal and a visceral layer—that is, the first layer lines the containing walls, the latter is reflected over the contained organ or viscus. Its several parts are named after the surface to which they adhere: the parietal layer, which lines the ribs and intercostal muscles, is called pleura costalis; the visceral layer, which invests the lungs, pleura pxdmonis; between these two layers is a space which is termed the cavitij of the pleura. Each pleura occupies its own half of the thorax; they do not communicate with one another, nor do they come into contact with each other, except for the short distance of about two inches in- front, behind the sternum. Unlike the peritoneum, the pleura forms no folds except a small one, called ligamentum latum pulmonis, which extends from the root of the lung to the diaphragm. The pleura costalis (fig. 38), in front, lines part of the back of the sternum and the inner surfaces of the costal cartilages; later- ally, it is reflected over the ribs and the intercostal muscles; pos- teriorly, it is traced over the sides of the bodies of the dorsal vertebrfe ; thence it passes to the back of the pericardium, over the