HYPOGASTRIC PLEXUS. 495 The cceliac plexxis receives branches from the lesser splanchnic nerve, and, on the left side, it receives a filament from the right pneumogastric nerve. It divides into the gastric, hepatic, and splenic plexuses, which ramify on the corresponding arteries and their branches; the gastric plexus receives in addition filaments from the pneumogastric nerves; the hepatic plexus^ the largest, is joined by branches from the left pneumogastric and right phrenic nerves, and it distributes filaments to the right supra-renal plexus ; the splenic plexus is formed by branches from the left semilunar ganglion and the right pneumogastric nerve. The supra-renal plexus is formed by branches from the solar plexus, the semilunar ganglion, and the diaphragmatic plexus, and is laro-er on the risfht than on the left side. The renal plexus consists of numerous filaments from the semi- lunar ganglion, and from the solar and aortic plexuses; it is also reinforced by branches from the splanchnic nerves. From this plexus is given off— The spermatic plexus, which likewise receives filaments lower down from the aortic plexus ; in the female, it takes the name of the ovarian plexus. The superior mesenteric plexus receives, in addition to its branches from the solar plexus, some filaments from the right pneumogastric nerve and the coeliac plexus. It is the densest of all the plexuses derived from the solar plexus, and it breaks up into secondary plexuses corresponding to the branches of the artery of the same name. The inferior mesenteric plexus comes mainly from the left side of the aortic plexus. Htpogastbic The hypogastric plexus is situated between the Plexus. common iliac arteries, on the last lumbar vertebra and the sacrum. It consists of an intricate interlacement of sym- pathetic filaments, which pass down into the pelvis, for the supply of the pelvic viscera. Although this plexus is so intricate, it pre- sents no distinct ganglia. As it passes down it receives branches from some of the spinal nerves, but mainly from the third and fourth sacral nerves. From this large plexus are derived secondary plexuses, whiqh ramify around branches of the internal iliac artery: