STRUCTUKE OF THE MEDULLA. 727 bounded laterally by the diverging posterior pyramids and the restiform bodies, the floor being formed by the grey matter of the medulla. As only part, however, can be examined in the present stage, the full consideration of the fourth ventricle is deferred to a later stage in the dissection of the brain (p. 771). Mhtote Stbuc These are among the most complicated parts of TUBE OP THE the Central nervous system. They contain white Medulla and grey matter intermixed. The white matter Oblongata. consists, in part, of the continuation upwards of the longitudinal fibres of the cord ; in part, of horizontal fibres. Antebior The anterior columns of the cord (fig. 173), Pyramids. having reached the lower part of the medulla oblongata, are not continued straight through it, but diverge from each other, being reinforced by the deep fibres of the lateral columns, which here cross over and form the decussation of the anterior pyramids. In their further progress the fibres of the anterior columns are arranged thus: some of them run up and form the outer portion of their own pyramid; some of them pass deeply beneath the pyramid to constitute the longitudinal fibres of the reticularis alba; these fibres are continued upwards into the cerebrum: some ascend beneath the olive to join the restiform body and thence to the cerebellum; another and larger fasciculus passes upwards and, after embracing the olive, reunites to form a single bundle ; this, joined by fibres (plivary fasciculus) from the olive, ascends under the name of the fillet of Beil, over the superior cms of the cerebellum, to pass to the corpora quadrigemina and the cerebral hemispheres (fig. 173). Lateral The lateral columns on reaching the medulla Tracts. are disposed of in three ways, as follows :—some of its fibres, the internal, come forward between the diverging anterior columns, decussate in the middle line, and form part of the pyramid of the opposite side; others, the external, ascend with the restiform body (or tract) to the cerebellum; a third ^et, the middle, ascend beneath the olivary body, along the floor of the fourth ventricle (concealed by its superficial grey matter) as the fascicidus teres, and are continued along the upper part of the crus cerebri into the corpora quadrigemina and optic thalamus. ^