NERVES OF THE BACK. 290 divide into extm'nal and internal branclies. The general plan upon which these nerves are arranged is the same throughout the whole leingth of the spine ; but, since there are certain peculiarities de- serving of notice in particular situations, we must examine each region separately. Ceuvical The posterior division of the first cervical nerve Eeoion. (the suboccipital) passes between the arch of the atlas and the vertebral artery; it then enters the suboccipital triangle, and divides into branches which supply the muscles : one, which ])asses downwards to supply the inferior oblique, and also sends downwards a'branch to communicate with the second cervical neree; another passes upwards to supply the i-ecti capitis major and minor ; another supplies the obliquus superior ; another enters the complexus ; and, lastly, a cutaneous branch is sometimes given off which accompanies the occipital artery, and is distributed to the back of the scalp. The posterior branch (the great occipital) of the second cervical nerve is the largest of the series, and emerges between the arches of the atlas and axis. It turns upwards beneath the inferior oblique muscle, passes through the complexus, aiid runs with the occipital artery to the back of the scalp. The posterior divisions of the six lower cervical nerves divide into external and internal branches. The external are small, and terminate in the splenius, and the continuation of the erector spinse —viz., the trachelo-mastoid, the transversalis colli, and the cervicalis ascendens. The internal, by far the larger, proceed towards the spinous processes of the vertebraB; those of the third, fourth, and fifth lie between the coniplexus and the semispinalis,' and after supplying the muscles terminate in the skin over the trapezius; those of the sixth, seventh, and eighth lie between the semispinalis and the multifidus spin^, to which they are distributed, and do not as a rule give off any cutaneous branches. jjgpg^ The posterior divisions of the spinal nerves in Eeqion. this region come out between the transverse pro- ' The posterior branches of the second, third, and fourth nerves are generally connected, beneath the complexus, by branches in the form of loops. This consti- tutes posterior cervical plexus of some anatomists.