EELATIONS OF THE KIDNEYS. 457 the stomach hj a fold of peritoneum—the gastro-splenic omentum ; and with the under surface of the diaphragm by a small peritoneal fold—the suspensory ligament} Situation of l^liis is the large salivary gland of the abdomen. THE Panckeas. It is placed transversely across the back of the abdomen, in front of the spine, about the level of the first lumbar vertebra. It is about seven inches in length, and an inch and a half in breadth. Its right end or head is contained within the curve of the duodenum ; its left end, or tail, extends as far as the spleen. The further connections and relations of the pancreas cannot at this stage of the dissection be satisfactorily seen. Situation op The kidneys are two large excretory gla,nds, THE Kednets. situated at the back of the abdomen in each lum- bar region, nearly opposite the two last dorsal and the two upper lumbar vertebrae—the right, owing to the size of the liver, being a little lower than the left. They lie imbedded in fat, which main- tains them in their proper position. Behind, they rest on the crus of the diaphragm, on the quadratus lumborum and psoas, separated by the aponeurosis of the transversalis; in front, the right kidney is in relation with the peritoneum, the right lobe of the liver, the second part of tlie duodenum, and the ascending colon : the left kidney is in contact with the peritoneum, the cardiac end of the stomach, the spleen, the end of the pancreas, and the descending colon; externally, it is convex, and in contact with the abdominal parietes; internally, it is concave, and presents a deep hollow—the hilum, from which pass the ureter and large vessels; above, it is in relation with the supra-renal capsule ; below, it extends nearly as low as the crest of the ilium. Situation of These are two ductless glands, situated at the THE SupRA-EENAii top of the Mdueys and behind the peritoneum. Capsules. rpj^g right one is triangular; the left, oval and almond-shaped. The right supra-renal capsule is in relation in front, with the under aspect of the liver; the left, with the pancreas and spleen; behind, it rests on the crus of the diaphragm; the tipper hm'der is convex and thin; the loiver border is concave, and rests ' We find occasionally in the gastro-splenic omentum one or more small spleens, in addition to the large one.