THE SPINAL CORD. 790 the spinal canal. The anterior roots arise from the antero-]ateral column, are smaller than the posterior roots, but like them divide into two fasciculi as they approach the ganglion on the posterior root.^ The compound nerve formed by the junction of the two roots, external to the ganglion of the posterior, divides, outside the inter- vertebral foramen, into an anterior and a posterior (dorsal) branch. (See diagram, p. 787.) The fibres of the anterior roots, after entering the antero-lateral column, pass through the white fibres to enter the grey matter; here they pass in all directions, the larger number passing upwards and downwards, and some decussating with corresponding filaments of the opposite side, through the anterior white commissure; some also pass upward vertically through the lateral column. The fibres of the posterior roots enter the caput cornu posterioris through the posterolateral groove, and then pass upwards and downwards in the grey matter, chiefly of the posterior horn, but some curve round to enter the anterior horn, while others pass to the opposite side through the posterior grey commissure. Vaeiation in The direction and length of the roots of the THE Length op nerves vary in the different regions of the spine, THE Boots. owing to the respective parts of the cord from which they arise not being opposite to the foramina through which the nerves leave the spinal canal. In the upper part of the cer- vical region, the origins of the nerves and their point of exit are nearly on the same level; therefore the roots proceed transversely, and are very short. Lower down, however, the obliquity and length of the roots gradually increase, so that the roots of the lower dorsal nerves are at least a vertebra higher than the fora- ' The researches of Blandin, Anat. descripL, t. ii., p. 648,1838, have led him to establish the following relation between the respective size of the anterior and posterior roots of the nerves in the several regions of the spine :— The posterior roots are to the anterior in the cervical region dorsal lumbar and sacral 2 1 U This relation quite accords with the greater delicacy of the sense of touch in the upper extremity.