198 DISSECTION OF THE HEART. plexuses, and some lymphatics. The following is the disposition of the large vessels forming the root of the lung. In front are the two pulmonary veins : behind the veins are the subdivisions of the pulmonary artery; behind the artery are the divisions of the bronchus. From above downwards they are disposed thus:—On the right side we find—1st, the bronchus; 2nd, the artery; 3rd, the veins. On the left, we find :—1st, the artery; 2nd, the bronchus ; 3rd, the veins—as shown in fig. 47. DISSECTION OF THE HEAET. „ The heart is conical in form, and more or less Position. -i ^ i -it convex on its external aspect, with the exception of that portion lying on the tendinous centre of the diaphragm, which is flattened. It is situated obliquely in the thorax between the two lungs, and is completely surrounded by the pericardium. It extends from the fifth to the eighth dorsal vertebra, with its base directed upwards and to the right, its apex downwards and to the left, where during life it beats in the fifth intercostal space, two inches below the nipple and an inch to its sternal side. The position which the heart bears to the thoracic walls has been already described (p. 167) ; it varies, however, in different sub- jects, and as a rule is higher in the dead body than in the livings owing to the shrinking of the lungs. The anterior surface of the heart is convex and looks upwards and forwards; the posterior surface is flattened and rests upon the diaphragm : the former is chiefly formed by the right ventricle, the latter by the left ventricle. The right border is sharp (margo acukis), while the left border is thick and rounded (margo obtusus). Size and . The size of the heart is dependent upon so Weight. many conditions, that the following measurements must be received with more or less limitation. An average heart will measure, in its transverse direction at the base, three and a half inches; in its length, about five inches ; in its thickness, two and a half inches. The weight is from ten to twelve ounces in the male, and from eight to ten in the female; but much depends upon the