243 EPIGLOTTIS. ■ordinary position is perpendicular, leaving tlie upper opening of the larynx free for respiration; but during the elevation of the larynx in deglutition it becomes horizontal, falls downwards and backwards over the larynx, and prevents the entrance of food into it. This descent of the epiglottis is accomplished, not by special muscular agency, but by the simultaneoiTS elevation of the larynx iind the retraction of the tongue. Its apex or lower part is at- tached by the tluiro-epiglottic ligament to the angle of the thyroid cartilage; it is also connected by an elastic ligament, liyo-epirjlotticy to the posterior surface of the os hyoides. Laterally, its borders •are rather turned backwards, and to them are attached two folds of mucous membrane, which pass to the arytenoid cartilages, called the aryteno-ejnglottic folds. Its anterior surface is only free at its base, where it is connected with the base of the tongue by the three glosso-epiglottic folds. Its posterior or laryngeal surface is smooth, concavo-convex and free, and looks towards the larynx. The surface of the epiglottis is closely invested by mucous membrane ; this being removed, the yellow cartilage of the t?piglottis is seen pitted and often perforated by the small mucous glands. The cartilages of the larynx resemble those of the ribs in struc- ture. In the young they are dense and elastic, but some have a tendency to ossify with age. In very old subjects, the thyroid and cricoid cartilages are often completely ossified, and their interior presents an areolar tissue, containing oily matter, analogous to the spongy texture of the bones. The epiglottis, cornicula laryngis, and cuneiform cartilages are rarely ossified, on account of their consisting of yellow fibro-cartilage resembling that of the ear and nose. The larynx must now be examined in its perfect condition. Mucous Mem- The mucous membrane lines the whole of the in- bbane of the terior of the larynx, being continuous above with Larvnx. ^^^^ ^i^g pliarynx and mouth, below with that of the trachea. It is intimately adherent to the posterior part of the epiglottis and to the true vocal cords; elsewhere it is loosely con- nected to the subjacent structures by an abundance of areolar tissue, which admits of its being elevated into large folds. This is R 2