756 LATERAL VENTRICLES. crura is placed the lamina cinerea (fig. 180). The posterior part of the corpus callosum terminates in a thick, round border—the spleimim—which is free, and beneath it the pia mater enters the interior of the ventricles. A satisfactory view cannot be obtained of the arch formed by the corpus callosum, of its terminations in front and behind, and of the relative thickness of its different parts, without making a perpendicular section through a fresh brain, as shown in the preceding figure.' Connected with the under surface of the posterior part of the corpus callosum is the fornix, which separates from it in front, the two structures being connected by a vertical septum—the septum lucidum (fig. 184). Lateral A longitudinal incision should be made on each Ventricles. side through the corpus callosum about half an inch from its median raphg. Care must be taken not to cut too near the middle line, in order to preserve the delicate partition which descends from the under surface of the corpus callosum, and separates the ventricles from each other. Two cavities, called the lateral ventricles, will thus be exposed, one in each cerebral hemi- sphere, and they should afterwards be laid open throughout their whole extent. Their general form should be first examined ; then the several objects seen in them. The lateral ventricles are two serous cavities, one in each hemi- sphere of the brain. They are occasioned by the enlargement and folding backward of the cerebral lobes over the other parts of the central nervous axis. They contain a serous fluid, which, even in a healthy brain, sometimes exists in considerable quantity; when greatly in excess it constitutes one form of the disease termed hydrocephalus. The ventricles are lined with ciliated epithelium, laid upon a layer of neuroglia (ependymd); a term which has been applied to that peculiarly delicate connective tissue found through- out the brain and spinal cord. The ventricles are crescentic in shape, with their backs towards ' The corpus callosum is more or less developed in all mammalia, but is absent in birds, reptiles, and fish. It has been absent in the human subject without any particular mental deficiency. See cases recorded by Eeil, Archiv fUr die Phys. t. - xi., and Wenzel, De ;penitiori Struct. Cereb, p. 302.