INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY. 133 maxillary bones. It is inserted into tlie rough surface on the inner side of the angle of the lower jaw, as high as the dental foramen. The internal pterygoid is in relation superficially with the ex- ternal pterygoid, the internal lateral ligament, the internal maxillary artery and vein, the inferior dental vessels and nerve, the mylo-hyoid artery and nerve, the chorda tympani and the buccal nerves ; by its deep surface, with the tensor palati and superior constrictor muscles. Notice particularly the direction of the fibres of the pterygoid, muscles. The fibres of the external run horizontally outwards and backwards from their origin; the fibres of the internal run downwards, backwards and outwards from their origin. The in- ternal pterygoid has tendinous septa like the masseter. Both the pterygoids get their nerves from the motor division of the inferior maxillary nerve. The internal pterygoid raises the lower jaw, acting in concert with the temporal and masseter muscles ; it moreover assists the external pterygoid and anterior part of the masseter to draw the jaw forwards. The external pterygoid draws the jaw forwards and somewhat to the opposite side, and also in conjunction with the internal pterygoid produces the lateral movements of the jaw essential to the mastication of the food. Consequently they are enormously developed in all ruminants and comparatively feebly in carnivorous animals. The antagonistic muscles of the forward- action of the two pterygoids are the temporal m. and the deep fibres of the masseter. ^ ^ ^ Saw through the neck of the jaw, disarticulate the condyle with its fibro-cartilage from the glenoid cavity, and turn it forwards with the external pterygoid, so that the condyle can be replaced if desirable. A little dissec- tion will bring into view the internal lateral ligament, the internal maxillary artery and vein, the inferior maxillary nerve and its branches, and the chorda tympani nerve. Intehnal Max- This is the larger of the two terminal branches iLLARY AiiTEBY. into wliich the external carotid divides, opposite the neck of the jaw in the parotid gland. It passes horizontally forwards between the neck of the jaw and the internal lateral liga- ment, then runs tortuously, in some cases above, in others beneath,