339 DISSECTION OF THE FRONT OF THE FOREARM. of the arm, the nerve perforates the external intermuscular septum, and then runs deeply embedded between the brachialis anticus and the supinator radii longus. The nerve gives off branches on the inner side of the humerus, to the inner and long heads of the triceps, and the internal cuta- neous branch; on the bach of the humerus, to the external head of the triceps and the anconeus; on the outer side of the humerus, to the supinator radii longus. the extensor carpi radialis longior, and the brachialis anticus (usually); lastly, after perforating the septum, it gives off the upper and lower external cutaneous branches. A little above the elbow-joint the nerve divides into its two principal branches—the radial, which accompanies the radial artery along the forearm, and the posterior interosseous, which perforates the supinator brevis, and supplies the muscles on the back of the forearm. To sum up the muscular distribution of this nerve, we may say that it supplies all the extensors of the forearm, wrist, thumb, and fingers; and all the supinators except one—namely, the biceps (supplied by the musculo-cutaneous nerve). DISSECTION OF THE FRONT OF THE FOKEAEM. Surface The front of the forearm presents, at the bend " Masking. of the elbow, a triangular depression, from which ; there extends down to the wrist a groove which corresponds to the k ; radial artery; on the inner side is another groove, increasing in ^ depth towards the wrist, indicating the course of the ulnar artery. The head of the radius can be easily felt on the outer side, below the external condyle of the humerus, and in the lower third the bone becomes again defined, terminating below in the styloid process, beyond which is the prominence of the tubercle of the scaphoid. The border of the ulna can be felt on the inner side of the forearm, n the lower half, and it ends at the wrist in an ill-defined styloid process, which does not descend as low as the corresponding pro- ;ess of the radius. The lower part of the forearm presents, an inch z 2 I" I