G36 BUHSA OVER THE PATELLA. the sitting position ? When erect, how could we walk, run, or spring? The rectus, by taking origin from the pelvis, gains a double advantage : it acts upon two joints simultaneously, bending the thigh while it extends the knee, as when we advance the leg in walking; it also contributes to balance the pelvis on the head of the thigh-bone, and thus prevents the body from falling backwards. "We cannot have a better proof of the power of the extensor muscles than when the patella is broken by their sudden contraction—an injury which sometimes happens when a man, slipping backwards, makes a ■violent effort to recover his balance. Bursa oveh The skin over the patella is exceedingly loose, THE Patella. and in the subcutaneous tissue is a bursa of con- siderable size. Since this bursa is apt to enlarge and inflame in females who are in the habit of kneeling at their work, it is gener- ally called the housemaid's bursa. The bursa is not seated precisely over the patella, but extends some way down the ligamentum patella3; indeed, in some cases it is entirely confined to this liga- ment. This corresponds with the position of the tumour which the bursa occasions when enlarged. Generally speaking, in subjects brought for dissection, the wall of the bursa is more or less thickened, and its interior intersected by numerous fibrous cords, remnants of the original cellular structure altered by long-continued friction. Again, the wall of the bursa does not always form a complete sac; sometimes thei'e is a wide opening in it; this explains the rapidity with which inflammation, in some cases, extends from the bursa into the surrounding areolar tissue. Below the bursa is a layer of fascia lata, and under this is a network of arteries. The immediate covering of the bone, or what may be called its periosteum, is a strong expansion derived from the extensor tendon. This is interesting for the following reason: in ordinary fractures of the patella from muscular action the ten- dinous expansion over it is torn also ; the ends of the bone gape widely, and never unite except by ligament. But in fractures from direct mechanical violence, the tendinous expansion, being entire, maintains the fragTuents in a^jposition, so that there is commonly a bony union. The remaining part of the femoral artery can now be examined after the sartorius has been cut through near its middle, and both