794 CONJUNCTIVA. the lachrymal and palpebral branches of the ophthalmic artery, and at the circumference of the cornea they form capillary loops which anastomose with each other. The lymphatics are well marked in the palpebral and sclerotic portions of the conjunctiva, and at the margin of the cornea they rapidly diminish in size and become connected with the cell-spaces in the cornea. An abundant supply of nerves is distributed to the membrane; their arrangement is in the form of plexuses as far as the margin of the cornea, where they terminate in ' end-bulbs,' described by Krause, resembling in m.any respects the central portion of Pacinian corpuscles. The corneal conjunctiva is composed chiefly of epithelium ar- ranged in layers, the deepest of which consists of columnar cells resting by their bases on the substantia propria of the cornea; superficial to these are two or three layers of polygonal cells, the deepest of which, called the fingered cells of Cleland, interdigitate with the columnar cells ; and on the surface there is a layer of flattened squamous epithelial cells. This portion of the conjunctiva cannot be separated by dissection in recent eyes, but it possesses the same acute sensibility as the rest of the conjunctiva. Changes j)roduced by inflammation of the conjunctiva often involve the cornea and render its texture thick and opaque.^ The eyeball is embedded in a large quantity of fat and delicate connective tissue ; and surrounding it in its posterior three-fourths is a serous membrane, the capside of Tenon, which allows of its free movement in the orbit. The axes of the two eyeballs are' nearly parallel with each other; thus they do not correspond with the axes of the orbits, nor of the optic nerves which enter the globes on their nasal aspect. The human eye is nearly spherical, and consists of segments of two spheres: a large posterior one, which corresponds with the ' The facts of comparative anatomy confirm this view. In the serpent tribe, which annually shed the skin, the front of the cornea comes off with the rest of the external surface of the body. In the eel the surface of the cornea is often drawn ofi in the process of skinning. In some species of rodents which burrow under the ground Hke the mole, the eye is covered with hair, Uke other parts.