VITREOUS BODY. 818 The Vitreous Body amd the Hyaloid Mem- BRA»{E. of the lens. The anterior chamber is remarkable for the rapidity with which it absorbs and secretes ; as is proved, in the one case, by the speedy removal of extravasated blood ; in the other, by the rapid reappearance of the aqueous humour after the extraction of a cataract. The vitreous body is a transparent, gelatinous- looking substance, which fills up nearly four-fifths of the interior of the globe (p. 797). It can be easily separated from the retina, except at the optic disc; in front it presents a deep depression, in which the crystalline lens is embedded. It is surrounded, except in front, by a delicate transparent membrane—the hyaloid membrane—which forms a capsule for the vitreous body, and is sufficiently strong to keep it in shape after the stronger tunics of the eye have been removed. When the vitreous humour has been hardened in chromic acid it is rendered somewhat opaque, and presents, especially at its outer part, a lamellar appearance. It consists of a fluid contained in the meshes of a cellular structure, which communicate fretdy with each other; for if any part of it be punctured, the humour gradually drains away.' If examined carefully, the lamellation is seen to be arranged concentrically, the layers, as they approach the centre, becoming less firm in consistence. The vitreous, moreover, on a transverse section, shows a radial striation, but whether this exists naturally, or is the result of post-mor- tem changes, or from chemical reagents, is not known. Running through the middle from before backwards is a small canal—canal of Stilling—about a line in diameter, which contains fluid, and is broader behind than in front; this in the foetus lodges a small branch of the retinal artery, which ramifies on the back of the capsule of the lens. The hyaloid membrane surrounds the vitreous body, except in front, and passes from the anterior border of that body to the ' This is composed mainly of water, with albuminate of soda and mucin. Pig. 201. AETEEIES or THE KETINA. Canal of Petit (infl.Ued). Zoue of Zinn (exaggerated).