788 THE SPINAL CORD. of the cord. Thex'e is sometimes described an antero-lateral c/roove, corresponding to the line whence the anterior roots of the spinal nerves emerge; but this is not really a groove, although it serves to map out each half of the cord into three longitudinal portions r a posterior, a lateral, and an anterior column. On each side of the posterior median fissure, in the cervical region, is a slender column, called the posterior median cohimn, which is separated from the pos- terior column by a shallow furrow.' The anterior column is continu- ous with the anterior pyramid; the lateral column with the lateral tract of the medulla ; the posterior column with the restiform body; and the posterior median column with the posterior pyramid. Internal A transverse section through the cord (fig. 196) SxEucTUKE. shows that, externally, it is composed of white nerve-substance, and that its interior contains grey matter, arranged in the form of two crescents, with their backs to each other. Each crescent is placed in its corresponding half of the cord, and is con- nected with its fellow across the centre by a portion called the j50s- terior or greij commissure. The posterior horns are long and narrow, and extend to the postero-lateral groove, where they are connected with the posterior roots of the spinal nerves. At their extremities they taper to a point, the apex cornu posterioris, and near their bases they present a constriction, the cervix cormi, beyond which they slightly enlarge to form the caput cornu. The outline of the grey matter of the posterior horns at their commencement is indefinite and frayed out, which is especially noticeable in the cervical region, and is called the processus reticularis; at their apices the grey matter is semitransparent in appearance, and hence is known as the suhstantia gelatinosa. In the centre of the concavity of the posterior horn is a rounded projection, most marked in the upper dorsal region, termed the tractus intermedio-lateralis, the continuation of which has been traced upwards through the medulla oblongata. The anterior horns are short and thick, and come forwards towards the attachment of the anterior roots of the nerves, but do not reach the surface. Separating the grey commissure from the anterior median fissure is the anterior or white commissure. ' The posterior median column is said by Foville to be present along the whole length of the cord.