CONVOLUTIONS OF THE CEKEliRUM. 738 On tlie orbital surface there is a deep sulcus, the tri-nxidiaie sulcus, whose rami pass forwards, outwards, and backwards, mapping tliis surface out into internal, anterior, and posterior orbital convolu- tions (%. 177, Tr. s.). On this surface also Ave find the olfactorij lobe, lodged in a deep cleft, the olfactory sulcus (fig. 177, Olf. s.), and although it will be described under the cranial nerves, it is strictly a cerebral lobe, for it is developed as a distinct outgrowth from the anterior cerebral vesicle ; moreover, in early foetal life it possesses a cavity continuous with the general ventricular cavity of the brain. The iMrietal lobe (fig. 175, p) is placed between the fissure of Rolando and the external parieto-occipital fissure, and is bounded below by the horizontal limb of the fissure of Sylvius, and by a line continued from it to meet one passing down from the parieto- occipital fissure. The convolutions of the parietal lobe are three :—The ascend- ing imrietal convolidion is bounded in front by the fissure of Rolando, and runs parallel vnth the ascending frontal convolution in front, which it joins above and below the fissure. The superior ixiriotal convolution (fig. 175, is placed above the interparietal fissure, and courses horizontally backwards; posteriorly it runs beneath the parieto-occipital fissure, and is con- nected with the superior occipital convolution; this is known as the ftrst annectent convolution ; this convolution is also seen on the median surface of the cerebrum. The inferior ivirietal convolution lies below the interparietal fissure, and consists of two portions: one, the supra-marginal, lies in front of the posterior ramus of the Sylvian fissure ; the other, the angular gyrus, lies behind the fissure of Sjdvius, and bends over the termination of the parallel sulcus; the angular convolution is connected behind with the occipital con- volutions by the second and tJi ird annectent convolutions. The inter parietal fissure ascends at first nearly vertically, and then runs horizontally backwards from the ascending parietal con- volution. The occipital lobe (fig. 175, o) consists of the posterior part of the hemisphere behind, bounded in front by the external parieto- occipital fissure, and by a line continued from it.