MEDIAN NERVE IN THE PALM. 361 brane, formed, partly by the annular ligament, and partly by the groove in the trapezium. Median Nerve In its passage under the annular ligament, the IN THE Palm. median nerve is enveloped in a fold of synovial membrane, and lies upon the flexor tendons. Here it becomes enlarged and flattened, and of a pinkish colour, and divides into two nearly equal parts: the external gives a recurrent branch to the muscles of the ball of the thumb—namely, to the abductor poUicis, the opponens poUicis, and the outer head of the flexor brevis poUicis, and then terminates in three digital nerves, two of which are distributed to the thumb, and the third to the radial side of the index finger; the interrbal gives digital branches which supply the ulnar side of the forefinger, both sides of the middle finger, and the radial side of the ring finger. The ttuo nerves to the thumb proceed, one on each side of the long flexor tendon, to the last phalanx : the outer one being connected with a terminal filament of the radial. The third digital ners'-e runs along the radial side of the index finger. The fourth descends towards the cleft between the index and middle fingers, and subdivides into two branches, which supply their opposite sides. The ffth is joined by a filament from one of the ulnar digital nerves, and then subdivides above the cleft between the middle and ring fingers, to supply their opposite sides. Two small branches are given ofi" from the third and fourth digital nerves, to supply the two radial bimbricales ; the two ulnar being suppHed by the ulnar nerve. About an inch and a quarter above the clefts between the fingers, each digital nerve subdivides into two branches, between which the digital artery passes and bifurcates lower down : therefore a vertical incision down the cleft would divide the aj^tery before the nerve. In their course along the fingers and thumb, the nerves lie superficial to the arteries, and nearer to the flexor tendons. About the base of the first phalanx each nerve sends a dorsal branch, which runs along the back of the finger nearly to the extremity, communicating with the dorsal branches derived from the radial and ulnar nerves.* Near the ungual phalanx another dorsal or ' Upon the cutaneous nerves of the hands and feet are little bodies, termed, after