515 TRIANGULAR LIGAMENT. Trivnguur Understand that the triangular ligament of the LiGAJiEXT OF THE Urethra and the deep perineal fascia are synony- Urethea. mous terms. The triangular ligament, shown in fig. 122, is a strong fibrous membrane stretched across the pubic arch. It is about an inch : and a half in depth, with the base directed backwards. It con- ■ sists of two layers—an anterior and a posterior. The anterior t layer is firmly attached on each side to the loosterior lip of the rami ( of the OS pubis and ischium, beneath the crus penis ; superiorly— 1 i.e., towards the symphysis of the os pubis—it is connected with • the subpubic ligament; inferiorly, it does not present a free border, but is connected to the tendinous centre of the perineum, t and is continuous with the deep layer of the superficial perineal f fascia which curves backwards under the transversus perinei muscle, and with the ischio-rectal or anal fascia (p. 509). The anterior layer of the triangular ligament is perforated : about one inch below the symphysis pubis for the membranous ; part of the urethra. The aperture through which the urethra ; passes does not present a distinct edge, because the ligament is prolonged forwards over the bulb, and serves to keep it in position. It also presents apertures for the transmission of the dorsal vein, : and outside this for the pudic arteries and nerves. The posterior layer cannot at present be seen. It belongs, - strictly speaking, to the obturator prolongation of the pelvic fascia, ; and slopes somewhat backwards from the anterior layer so as to leave an interval between them, in which are found structures which will be presently described. Points of Stjr- The triangular ligament is very important ' oicAi Interest. surgically for these reasons:— 1. Here we meet with difficulty in introducing a catheter, unless we can hit off the right track through the ligament. The soft and spongy tissue of the bulbous part of the urethra in front of the ligament readily gives way if force be used, and a false ; passage results. 2. By elongating the penis, we are much more likely to hit off the proper opening through the ligament. 3. When, in retention of urine, the urethra gives way anterior L L 2