scaepa's triangle. 627 and is inserted into the inner and front part of the tibia just below its tubercle. The tendon appears all the wider on account of its broad connection with the fascia of the leg, which extends as low .as the internal malleolus. The broad insertion of this muscle lies ^interior to and covers the tendinous insertions of the gracilis and semi-tendinosus, and between them is a bursa. A large bursa' is interposed between the tendon and the internal lateral ligament. 'The chief action of the muscle is to fix the pelvis steadily on the thigh.^ It first bends the leg upon the thigh, and then bends the thigh upon the abdomen. It crosses one leg over the other, as tailors sit when at work. If the leg be the fixed point, it will bend the trunk upon the thigh and rotate the pelvis inwards. Its nerve comes from the middle cutaneous branch of the anterior ■crural. Scaepa's 111 consequence of the oblique direction of the Tbias'gle. ■ upper third of the sartorius, a triangle is formed, which has this muscle and the adductor longus for its two sides, •and the crural arch for its base : the triangle is called Scarpa's.^ Its floor is formed by the iliacus, the psoas, the pectineus, and the adductor longus, with sometimes the adductor brevis between the borders of the two latter muscles. The contents of this important space should be carefully displayed, and their relative positions well studied. This triangle contains all the parts which pass under the crural arch: namely, from without inwards, the external cuta- neous nerve, close to the anterior spine of the ilium; the iliacus and psoas; the anterior crural nerve and its divisions, especially the long saphenous nerve ; the crural branch of the genito-crural nerve, the common femoral artery with its two large divisions, the superficial femoral and the profunda, which run down, nearly parallel to each other, the latter being thp more external and giving off the internal and external circumflex arteries; the ' In persons, females especially, who are in the habit of riding, this bursa sometimes becomes enlarged. ' Hence the name given to it by Spigelius (Da Corporis Hum. Fabric), ' Quem •ego sartorium musculum vocare soleo, quod sartores eo maximfi utuntur, dum crus ■cruri inter consuendum imponunt.' ' So called in compliment to the Italian anatomist who first tied the femoral in it for popliteal aneurism. s s 2