DISSECTION OF THE MALE rEKINEUM. 506 the urethral region of tlie perineum. The posterior, containing the anus, is called the ischio-rectal or anal region (fig. 118).' The subject should be placed in the usual position for lithotomy, with a block placed beneath the pelvis. A full-sized staff should now be passed into the bladder, the rectum moderately distended with tow, and the scrotum raised by means of hooks. A central ridge, named the rap/te, extends from the anus, along the perineum, scrotum, and under surface of the penis. Between the tuberosities of the ischia and the anus are two depressions, one on each side, marking the iscliio-^-ectal fossce, which are found immediately be- neath the skin, filled with more or less fat. In the lateral opera^ tion of lithotomy, the incision should commence at a point midway between the anus and the posterior fold of the scrotum, close to the left side of the raphe; it should be carried downwards and outwards to a point midway between the tuber ischii and the anus. In the bilateral operation, the incision is semilunar, the horns being made on either side between the tuber ischii and the anus, equidistant from these points respectively ; while the centre of the incision runs about three-quarters of an inch above the anus. At the anus the skin becomes finer and more delicate, forming a gradual transition towards mucous membrane: during life it is drawn into wrinkles by the permanent contraction of the cutaneous sphincter. Moreover, the skin at the margin of the anus is provided with numerous minute glands,^ which secrete an unctuous substance to facilitate the passage of the faeces. When this secretion becomes defective or vitiated, the anal cutaneous folds are apt to become excoriated, chapped, or fissured; and then defa3cation becomes very painful. At the margin of the anus a thin white line can be distinguished, indicating, not only the junction of the skin with the mucous mem- > The dimensions of the lower outlet of the pelvis are apt to vary in different subjects, and the lithotomist must modify his incision accordingly. ' These glands are the analogues of the anal glands in some animals, e.g. the dog and the beaver. They are found not only about the anus, but also in the sub- cutaneous tissue of the perineum, a fact for the demonstration of which we are indebted to the late Professor Quekett. They are large enough to be seen with the, naked eye.