PTERYaO-MAXILLARY REGION, 131 Its nerves (two deep temporal) are branches of the inferior maxillary (p. 139). Between the posterior border of this muscle and the neck of the inferior maxilla, the masseteric nerve and artery pass to their destination: in front of the muscle, the buccal branch of the in- ferior maxillary nerve descends to the buccinator with its companion artery. The temporal muscle is in relation on its deeper surface with the external pterygoid and buccinator muscles, the internal max- illary artery and vein, and the deep temporal arteries and nerves. Pterygo-siax- The zygomatic arch having been already divided, iLLARY Region. the structures should be cleaned so as to expose the coronoid process of the jaw, the insertion of the temporal muscle, and the loose fat which surrounds it. Next, saw through the coronoid process in a direction downwards and forwards, so as to include the insertion of the muscle, and reflect it upwards without injuring the subjacent vessels and nerves. To gain a good view of the muscles, nerves, and Dissection. o o ^ ? vessels of the pterygo-maxiUary region, a jDortion of the ascending ramus of the jaw must be removed with a Hey's saw, as shown in the diagram on the next page. In this region we have to examine the two pterygoid muscles, the trunk and branches of the internal maxillary artery, the inferior maxillary nerve, and the internal lateral ligament of the lower jaw. All these structures are imbedded in loose soft fat, which must be cautiously removed without injuring them. External This muscle arises by two heads, one, the upper, Pterygoid, from the great wing of the sphenoid and from the ridge below it; the lower, from the outer surface of the external pterygoid plate, a few fibres taking origin from the outer side of the tuberosities of the palate and superior maxiUary bones. The muscle passes horizontally backwards and is inserted into the neck of the jaw, and slightly into the border of the inter-articular fibro- cartUage of the temporo-maxillary articulation. The advantage of the insertion of some of its fibres into the inter-articular cartilage is, that the cartilage follows the condyle in all its movements. When the jaw is dislocated, it is chiefly by the K 2