115 LEFT SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. In the third part of its course, the artery passes downwards and outwards, and lies in the supra-clavicular triangle upon the surface of the first rib. Here it is most superficial, and is covered by the skin, platysma, the two layers of the cervical fascia, and the clavicular branches of the superficial cervical plexus; subse- quently by the suprascapular artery and vein, the clavicle, the subclavius muscle, with its nerve; and, what is of much more consequence, it is here crossed by the external jugular and (often) the supra and posterior scapular veins; so that there is here a confluence of large veins in front of the artery. The subclavian vein is situated below the artery, but on a plane an- terior to it. Beloio it, is the first rib, and behind it the scalenus medius. Above the artery, and to its outer side, are the trunk nerves of the brachial plexus and the omo-hyoid m. One of these nerves (the conjoined fifth and sixth cervical) runs so nearly paral- lel with the artery, and on a plane anterior to it, that it is quite possible to mistake the nerve for the artery, in the operation of tying it. We have heard a hospital surgeon of great experience say, that he had seen this mistake committed on three separate occasions. In this part of its course, the artery as a rule gives off' no branches; the most frequent exceptions are the posterior scapular, and supra-scapular. Left Subcla- The left subclavian is the last of the three great viAN Abtebt. branches which arise from the arch of the aorta. It ascends nearly vertically out of the chest, and then arches in front of the apex of the lung and pleura to reach the inner border of the scalenus anticus, behind which it runs over the first rib. In the first part of its course the left subclavian lies deeply in the chest, near the spine. On its outer or left side it is covered by the pleura; on its inner or right side are at first the trachea, then the oesophagus and thoracic duct; in front are the left lung, covered with its pleura, the pneumogastric and phrenic nerves, and the cardiac branches, all of which lie parallel with the artery, the left common carotid, and the left brachio-cephalic vein ; at the level of the upper part of the chest it has in front the sterno-thyroid, stemo-hyoid, the sterno-mastoid muscles, the left internal jugular and vertebral veins, and the sternal end of the clavicle; heJiind it I 2