PLANTAR ARTERIES. 687 outer side in front of the external tubercle, and from the long plantar ligament. Its fibres run straight forwards, and are inserted into the fibular side of the upper surface of the tendon, so that their action is not only to assist in bending the toes, but to make the common tendon pull in a straight line towards the heel; which, from its oblique direction, it could not do without the accessory muscle. The common tendon then divides into four, one for each of the four outer toes. These run in the same sheath with the short tendons, and, after passing through their divisions, are inserted into the bases of the ungual phalanges. Respecting the manner in which the tendons are confined by fibrous sheaths, and lubri- cated by a synovial lining, what was said of the fingers (p. 363) applies equally to the toes. The flexor accessorius is supplied by the external plantar nerve. These four little muscles are placed between the LUMBEICAUSS. in t -n i • t long flexor tendons. Each, excepting the most in- ternal, which is attached only to the inner side of the tendon going to the second toe, arises from the adjacent sides of two tendons, proceeds forwards, and then, sinking between the toes, terminates in an aponeurosis which passes round the inner side of the four outer toes, and yoms the extensor tendon on the dorsum of the first phalanges of the toes. Concerning their use, refer to p. 365. The two outer lumbricales are supjDlied by the external, the two inner by the internal plantar nerve. Now trace the long flexor tendon of the gTeat toe. From the i groove in the astragalus it runs along the groove in the lesser tube- rosity of the OS calcis, above, that is nearer to the bones than the I tendon of the flexor longus digitorum, between the two heads of the flexor brevis hallucis, and then straight to the base of the last phalanx. It crosses the long flexor tendon of the toes, and the two t tendons are connected by an oblique slip; so that we cannot bend f the other toes without the great toe. Plantar The posterior tibial artery, having entered the Abteries. sole between the origins of the abductor hallucis, divides into the external and internal plantar arteries. The internal plccntar artery is smaller than the external plantar artery: it passes forwards between the abductor hallucis and the