611 SUPERFICIAL ARTERIES OF THE GROIN. OS pubis; the third passes outwards to the ilium. Each artery is accompanied by one, sometimes by two veins, which empty them- selves, either directly into the femoral, or into the great cutaneous vein of the thigh, called the saphena. Superficial These glands are easily recognised, by their Inguinal oval form .and reddish-brown colour. There are Glands. gg^g. rwns parallel to Poupart's liga- ment, and receives the lymphatics from the skin of the penis, the scrotum, the perineum, the anus, the buttock, the lower part of the abdominal wall, and the upper and outer aspect of the thigh; the outer and lower set lies along the saphena vein, chiefly around the saphenous opening, and receives the lymphatics from the foot, the leg, and the lower part of the thigh. This explains Avhy in cancer of the scrotum and syphilitic disease of the penis the first set becomes enlarged; and the second, in diseases of the lower ex- tremity. The lymphatic vessels which pass to and from the glands are small, and may escape observation, unless specially looked for. They all pass through the femoral ring into the abdomen, and eventually empty themselves into the receptaculum chyli. The glands mentioned in the preceding paragraph are all super- ficial. There are others, more deeply seated, close to the great vessels of the thigh : these are much smaller, and sometimes cannot be found. Sdpebficial The superficial epigastric artery comes through Arteries of the fascia lata, sometimes through the saphenous THE GKom. opening, half an inch below Poupart's ligament. It ascends over Poupart's ligament to pass to the subcutaneous tissue of the abdomen, as high as the umbilicus, and supplies the inguinal glands, and anastomoses with the deep epigastric and internal mammary arteries. Its further course is described at p. 423. The superficial circumfiexa ilii emerges through the fascia lata, runs parallel to Poupart's ligament towards the crest of the ilium, and ends in the subcutaneous tissue and inguinal glands. It anastomoses with the deep circumflex iliac, the gluteal, and the ascending branches of the external circumflex arteries. The sicperficial external puclic comes through the saphenous E K 2