ORIGINS OK THK (JKANIAL NERVES. 748 brandies, which pass through the foramina in the cribriform plate.' For description of these, see p. 277. The nerve arises by three roots—an outer and an inner, com- posed of white matter, and a middle, composed of grey (fig. 180, p. 747). The outer root passes backwards and outwards as a thin wliiti^ line, along the outer side of the locus perforatus anticus, to the commencement of the fissure of Sylvius. Its deeper origin has been traced to a nucleus of grey matter in the anterior part of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe. The inner root piisses backwards and inwards to the posterior extremity of the intei^nal convolution of the frontal lobe, and thence may be traced to the gyrus fornicatus. The middle or grey root ai'ises from the grey matter of the sulcus in which the nerve is lodged, and from the grey matter of the locus perforatus anticus in the fork between the two white roots; this is called the tuber olfadoriam. It contains white fibres in its interior, which have been traced to the corpus striatum. Second Pair The o^tic tracts arise from the anterior lobes OR Optic. (judes) of the corpora quadrigemina, the corpora geniculata, and the posterior part of the optic thalami (p. 747, fig. 180). They wind round the crura cerebri, with which they are connected by their anterior borders, and, after receiving some fibres from the basal optic nucleus (p. 744), join in the middle line to form the optic commissure. This commissure rests upon the sphenoid bone in front of the sella turcica ; and from it each optic nerve, invested by its fibrous sheath, passes through the optic- foramen into the orbit and terminates in the retina. ' The olfactory nerve and its ganglion, as stated above, are integral parts (the prosencephalic lobe) of the braiu. What in human anatomy is called the origin of the nerve is, in point of fact, the crus of the olfactory lobe, and is in every way homologous to the crus cerebri or cerebelli. In proof of this, look at the enormous size and connections of the crus in animals which have very acute sense of smell. Throughout the vertebrate kingdom there is a strict ratio between the sense of smell and the development of the olfactory lobes. Again, in many animals, these lobes are actually larger than the cerebral, and contain in then- interior a cavity which communicates with the lateral ventricles. Accordnig to Tiedemann, this cavity exists even in the human fustus at an early period.