PARTS CONCERNED IN FEMORAL HERNIA. 623 direction as the crural arch, but quite independently of it, as shown in fig. 147; these bands lie over the neck of the sac of a femoral hernia, and are often the seat of the stricture. Practically, the sheath is important for many reasons :— 1. A femoral hernia descends within it. 2. It constitutes, therefore, one of the coverings, fascia lorop^ia, of the hernia. 3. It contains within its substance the deep crural arch, which not infrequently forms the stricture of a femoral hernia, and has, therefore, to be divided before the intestine can be returned. Crukal Canal The hoUow under the crural arch is completely . AND Femoral occupied by the structures before mentioned, ex- cept for a small triangular space, forming the inner compartment of the femoral sheath, called the crural canal. The canal is on the inner side of the femoral vein, and is from a quarter to half an inch in length. Its base commences above in the femoral ring, and its apes ends below at the saphenous opening. In front, it has Poupart's ligament and the falciform process of the iliac portion of the fascia lata, and is formed by the fascia trans- versalis ; behind, it is formed by the fascia iliaca ; internally, it is formed by the junction of the fascia transversalis and the fascia iliaca, and is in relation with the base of Gimbernat's ligament; externally, it is separated from the femoral vein by the septum of fascia which divides the middle from the inner compartment of the crural sheath. The femoral ring is the upper opening of the crural canal, and is bounded, in front, by the superficial and deep crural arches ; lehind, by the horizontal ramus of the os pubis, the pectineus, and the pubic portion of the fascia lata; on the outer side, by the fascial septum separating it from the vein; on the inner side, by the thin, wiry edge of Gimbernat's ligament, the conjoined tendon of the internal oblique and transversalis, the fascia transversalis, and the fibres of the deep crural arch. In the undisturbed con- dition of the parts there is no gap ; it is only, a weak place, which, when a hernia escapes through it, feels like a ring: hence the name femoral ring} ' The femoral ring is naturally occupied by a little fat and cellular membrane, by lymphatic vessels, and often by a small lymphatic gland. But we have never