DISSECTION OF THE FEMALE PEREVEUM. 522 the corpora cavernosa of the male, and unite to form the body of the organ, which is surmounted by a small glans. It has also, like the penis, a susjDensory ligament. The glans is provided witli extremely sensitive papillae, and covered by a little prepuce. It.s dorsal arteries and nerves are large in proportion to its size, and have precisely the same course and distribution as in the penis. Its internal structure consists of a plexus of blood-vessels, which freely communicate with those of the labia minora; for one cannot be injected without the other. Labia Minora By separating the external labia, two small and OR Nymph;e. thin folds of mucous membrane about an inch and a half in length, are exposed, one on either side, termed labia minora. These folds converge anteriorly, and form a covering for the clitoris, called preputiiLm clitoriclis ; posteriorly, they are gradu- ally lost on the inside of the labia majora. They, unlike the labia majora, do not contain fat, but are composed of minute veins. Between the nymphas and about the clitoris are a number of seba- ceous glands. Between the labia minora, and below the clitoris, is an angular depression called the vestibule, at the back of which is the meatus urinarius. Immediately below this is the vagina, of which the orifice is partially closed in the virgin by a thin fold of mucous membrane called the hymen. The hymen is a thin fold of mucous membrane which, in the virgin, extends across the lower part of the entrance of the vagina, about half an inch behind the four- chette. In most instances its form is crescent-shaped, with the concavity upwards. There are several varieties of hymen: some- times there are two folds, one on either side, so as to make the entrance of the vagina a mere vertical fissure; ' or there may be a septum perforated by several openings, hymen cribriformis, or by one only, hymen circularis. Again, there may be no opening at all in it, and then it is called hymen imperforatus. Under this last condition no inconvenience arises till puberty. The menstrual discharge must then necessarily accumulate in the vagina : indeed, ' Such a one may be seen in the Museum of the College, Phys. Series No. 2843.