EXTERNAL ROTATORS OF THE THIGH.. 659 the foramen of tlie same name at nearly right angles, as round a pulley, and then unite into a single tendon to be inserted into the top of the great trochanter, in front of the pyriformis. Divide the tendon about three inches from its insertion, to see the four tendons which play over the smooth cartilaginous surface on the inner side of the tuberosity of the ischium. There is a large synovial bursa to diminish friction. The nerre to this muscle comes from the sacral ])Iexus (sometimes from the pudic) within the pelvis ; it emerges from the great sacro-sciatic foramen, winds round the spine of the ischium, and re-enters the pelvis throiigh the lesser sacro-sciatic foramen to supply the muscle on its inner surface. The action of this muscle is to rotate the femur outwards; but, in the sitting position, it loses this action, and becomes an abductor of the thigh. Between the capsule of the hip-joint and the tendon, a synovial bursa is commonly found, which not infrequently communicates with the bursa placed between the tendons and the tuberosity of the ischium. These smalL muscles are accessory to the obtu- rator internus, and are situated, one above, the other below it. The gemellus superior, the smaller of the two, and occasionally absent, arises from the outer surface of the spine of the ischium; the gemelhis inferior from the upper and back part of the tuberosity of the ischium. Their fibres, attached to the tendon of the obturator internus, are inserted it into the upper border of the great trochanter. The nerves to these muscles come from the sacral plexus ; that to the superior gemellus from the lower part of the plexus; that to the inferior gemellus comes out through the great sacro-sciatic foramen, passes beneath the superior gemellus and obturator internus to enter the muscle on its deep aspect; this branch also distributes a filament to the quadratus femoris, and another to the hip-joint. QuADKATus This quadrilateral muscle a/rises from the ridge Femoris. on the outer border of the tuber ischii. Its fibres run horizontally outwards, and are inserted into the back of the great trochanter, into the greater part of the linea quadrati. The lower border of the quadratus femoris runs parallel with the upper edge of the adductor magnus; in fact, it lies on the same plane. V V '1