202 THE RIGHT VENTRICLE. to prevent regurgitation of the blood during tte auricular con- traction. Here and there upon the posterior wall of the auricle may be observed minute openings, called foramina Thebesii: some being the orifices of small veins returning blood from the substance of the heart; others being simple depressions in the muscular tissue. To the left, and rather in front of the orifice of the vena cava in- ferior, is the aimmlo-ventricular opening, guarded by the tricuspid valve. It is oval in form, and will admit the passage of three fingers. Lastly, between the orifices of the superior and inferior vense cavas is a rounded elevation, the tiihercle of Lower ^ (not seen in the diagram), which is supposed to direct the current of blood, in foetal life, from the superior cava to the auriculo-ventricular opening. The muscuU pectinati are parallel muscular elevations running across the inner surface of the auricular appendix, and to a slight extent also of the sinus venosus. Eight Yen- This forms the right border and about two- TRicLE. thirds of the front surface of the heart. To examine its interior, a triangular flap should be raised from its anterior wall. The apex of this flap should be below: one cut along the right edge of the ventricle, the other along the line of the ventricular septum. Observe that the wall of the ventricle is much thicker than that of the auricle. The cavity of the ventricle is conical, with base upwards and to the right. Its inner wall is convex, and is formed by the septum ventriculorum. The upper and front part presents a smooth passage, the infandihuhim or conns mieriosus, which leads to the opening of the pulmonary artery. It is situated to the left and in front of the auriculo- ventricular opening, and about three-fourths of an inch higher. The following objects are seen in the right ventricle:— Columns carneie. Auriculo-ventricular opening. ChorclfE teudineffi. Pulmonary opening- guarded by the tricuspid and semilunar valves. From its walls project bands of muscular fibres, columnce carnew^ ' Most distinct in quadrupeds.