LUMBAR PLEXUS. 496 tlius tliere are, the inferior hgemorrlioidal plexus, the vesical, the uterine, the ovarian, the prostatic, and the vaginal; all of which send filaments which accompany the smallest branches of the arteries. . LuMBAB The lumbar plexus is formed by the union of the Plexus op anterior branches of the four upper lumbar nerves. Nerves. frequently connected with the last dorsal nerve by a small loop—the dorsi-lumbar nerve. The fifth does not enter into the formation of this plexus, but joins the sacral plexus under the name of the lumbo-sacral cord. The plexus lies over the transverse processes of the corresponding vertebrae, embedded in the substance of the psoas, so that this muscle must be dissected away before the plexus can be seen. Like the brachial plexus, the nerves composing it successively increase in size from above. Its branches are five in number, and arise in the following order (fig. 115). a. The first lumbar nerve generally divides into two branches; the upper being the ilio-hypogastric, the lower the ilio-inguinal. They pass downwards and outwards nearly parallel with each other, cross obliquely over the quadratus lumborum to the crest of the ilium, and then separate. The ilio-ltypogastric nerve emerges from the outer border of the psoas, and, crossing the quadratus lumborum, passes forwards to the crest of the ilium, where it pierces the trausversalis, and divides into its two terminal branches—the iliac branch, which pierces the internal and external oblique muscles, and supplies the skin over the gluteal region, behind the last dorsal nerve; and the hypogastric branch, which runs forwards between the trausversalis and internal oblique, and then perforates the aponeurosis of the external oblique to supply the skin of the hypogastric region. The ilio-inguinal nerve—the smaller—comes through the psoas, and perforates the transversalis close to the front of the iliac crest, where it communicates with the preceding nerve. It then pierces the internal oblique, and, lying in front of the spermatic cord, comes out through the external abdominal ring, and supplies the skin of the inner and upper part of the thigh, of the penis and scrotum in the male, and of the labium in the female.