532 DIGITAL EXAMINATION OF THE RECTUM. There is a considerable interval between it and the membranous portion of the urethra in the male, and the vagina in the female. DiQiTAi The relations of the front part of the rectum— Examination of that, namely, included between the recto-vesical THE Eectum. pcuch and the anus—are most important. If the fore-finger be introduced into the anus, and a catheter into the urethra, the first thing felt through the front wall of the bowel is the membranous part of the urethra (fig. 125). It lies just within the sphincter, and is about ten lines in front of the gut. About one and a half or two inches from the anus the finger comes upon the prostate gland; this is in close contact with the gut, and is readily felt on account of its hardness; by moving the finger from side to side we recognise its lateral lobes. Still higher up, the finger goes beyond the prostate, and reaches the trigone of the bladder : the facility with which this can be examined depends, not only upon the length of the finger and the amount of fat in the perineum, but upon the degree of distension of the bladder; the more distended the bladder, the better can the prostate be felt. These several relations are practically important. They explain why, with the finger in the rectum, we can ascertain whether the catheter is taking the right direction—whether the prostate be enlarged or not. We might even raise a stone from the bottom of the bladder so as to bring it in contact with the forceps. The rectum is supplied with blood by the superior, middle, and inferior hemorrhoidal arteries. The superior comes from the in- ferior mesenteric (p. 473) ; the middle from the anterior division of the internal iliac artery, and the inferior from the pudic artery. The superior hfemorrhoidal veins join the inferior mesenteric, and consequently the portal system; the middle and the inferior htemorrhoidal veins join the internal pudic, and thence the internal iliac vein. They are very large and form loop-like ]Dlexuses about the lower part of the rectum. Having no valves, they are liable to become dilated and congested from various internal causes ; hence the frequency of hgpnorrhoidal affections. This viscus, being a receptacle for the urine, Bladder. must necessarily vary in size, and accordingly tlie nature of its connections and coats is such as to permit this