802 CILIARY MUSCLE, section into an anterior and a posterior half, the vitreous humour being left undisturbed. They are black, and consist of from sixty to seventy radiating folds arranged in a circle about three lines broad. These processes consist of longer and shorter folds, the former being the more numerous, and in the proportion of three to one of the latter. The longer fold is about -^th of an inch in length; the smaller about -^th of an inch. One of the longer processes is seen in the diagram. The processes fit into corresponding folds of the suspensory ligament of the lens, and their free ends pro- ject for a short distance into the posterior chamber. The circum- ference of the processes are attached to the ciliary ligament; their inner ends are free and rest upon the circumference of the lens. The vascular supply of the ciliary processes is Steuctube. most abundant and resembles in the main that of the choroid, except that the plexus is coarser, with its meshes arranged longitudinally. The arteries come chiefly from the ante- rior ciliary, and from the front vessels of the choroid; and after breaking up into a fine plexus, they form loops which arch back- wards, to end in the smaller veins. Their dark colour is due to several layers of pigmented cells, which disap^iear, however, at the free ends of the processes. The ciliary muscle consists of unstriped mus- Cn-iAB-x MuscLii. ^^-^^j, glares, and forms a muscular zone at the front of the choroid close to the junction of the sclerotic with the cornea. It arises by a thin tendon from the sclerotic close to the cornea, and near the spaces of Fontana. Thence some of its fibres radiate backwards, foi'ming the meridional or radiating fibres, and are lost in the choroid behind the ciliary processes: some of i the fibres form a circular muscle around the outer circumference- of the iris, the circular ciliary muscle, which was formerly described as the ciliary ligament. Its action is to accommodate the eye to %■ objects at various distances by compressing the lens and increasing the convexity of its anterior surface.^ The iris is the contractile and coloured curtain suspended in the clear fluid which fills the space ' Sir P. Crampton has noticed that this muscle is well developed in birds. In them, its muscles are of the striped variety, as are the circular fibres of the iris.