750 ORIGINS OF THE CRANIAL NERVES. in their passage forwards the fibres are joined by filaments from the descending root of the fifth, which arise from the grey matter in the lateral wall of the aqneduct of Sylvius, beneath the anterior lobes of the corpora quadi'igeniina. It also receives some fibres from the raphe. The sensorij and larger root arises by fibres having their origin chiefly in the sujjerior sensory 7iucleus, which is situated external to the motor nucleus, and partly by fibres known as the ascending fibres, which may be traced far down in the medulla from a mass of nerve-cells in connection with the grej^ tubercle of Rolando and its upward prolongation. The two divisions of the nerve proceed forwards over the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone; here is developed, upon the sensory root, the Gasserian ganglion. The root then divides into three branches— the oplitlialmic, which passes through the sphenoidal fissure; the superior maxillarij, which passes through the foramen rotundum; the inferior maxillarij, which passes through the foramen ovale. They all confer common sensation upon the parts they supply, which comprise the entire face and sides of the head. The small motor root passes beneath the ganglion, with which it has no con- nection, and accompanies the inferior maxillary division, to be dis- tributed to the muscles of mastication. Sixth Pair ou The sixth nerve emerges from the transverse Abducentes. groove between the pons and the anterior pyramid (p. 718), with both of which it is connected. Its deep origin can be traced to an oval grey mass of nerve-cells in the fasciculus teres ia the floor of the fourth ventricle, close to the median groove and ia front of the transverse strife. The nerve fibres pass downwards from their origin through the pons parallel with the septum, and emerge from the transverse groove as before stated. It leaves the skull through the sphenoidal fissure, and, passing between the two heads of the external rectus, is distributed to this muscle. Seventh P.ur The facial nerve or j^ortio dura (p. 718) has its OB Facul apparent origin from the groove between the pons Neeves. and the restiform tract, and behind the olivary body. Its deep origin may be traced to an elongated mass of grey substance, placed deeply in the floor of the fourth ventricle, between the motor nucleus of the fifth and the transverse stria?.