355 PALM OF THE HAND. sponcling flexor tendons, and are intimately connected witli the transverse metacarpal ligament. The effect of this is that the flexor tendons of each finger are kept in place in the palm, by a fibrous ring. Between the four divisions of the palmar fascia the digital vessels and nerves emerge, and descend in a line with the clefts between the fingers. In the hands of mechanics, in whom the palmar fascia is usually very strong, we find that slips of it are lost in the skin at the lower part of the palm, and also for a short distance along the sides of the fingers. The chief use of the palmar fascia is, to protect the vessels and nerves from pressure, when anything is grasped in the hand. It also confines the flexor tendons in their proper place. Beneath the interdigital folds of the skin, there are aponeurotic fibres to strengthen them, constituting what are called the trans- verse ligaments of the fingers. They form a continuous ligament across the lower part of the palm, in front of the digital vessels and nerves. Cut through the palmar fascia at its attachment Dissection* to the anterior annular ligament, and reflect it towards the fingers, so as to expose the vessels, nerves, and tendons in the palm. The vessels lie above the nerves, and the tendons still deeper. There is an abundance of loose connective tissue to allow the free play of the tendons. When suppuration takes place in the palm, it is seated in this tissue. Reflect for a moment what mischief is likely to ensue. The pus cannot come to the surface through the dense palmar fascia, or on the back of the hand; it will, therefore, run up into the carpal bursa imder the annular ligament, and make its way deep amongst the tendons of the forearm. SoPEBFiciAL The ulnar artery, having passed over the^annular Paljiar Akch. ligament, near the pisiform bone, describes a curve across the upper part of the palm, beneath the palmar fascia, to- wards the thumb, and, gradually diminishing in size, inosculates with the superficialis vola3, and very commonly with a branch from the arteria radialis indicis, to form the superficial palmar arch. The curve of the arch is directed towards the fingers, its greatest A A 2