VESICULiE SEMINALES. 554 If a small incision be made through, the anterior part of the gland the hase being left entire, the gland may be dilated by the finger sufficiently to allow the extraction of even large calculi. Any change in the dimensions of the prostate affects the canal which runs through it, and more or less obstructs the flow of urine. If the entire gland be uniformly enlarged, the length of the prostatic urethra is increased ; if the enlargement preponderate at one part more than another, then the canal will deviate more or less from its natural track, and assume a more angular or a lateral curve according to the part enlarged. When the middle lobe becomes enlarged, there arises, at the neck of the bladder, a growth which , will, in proportion to its size, more or less obstruct the passage of the urine. In the efforts made to introduce a catheter into the bladder, it sometimes happens that the end of the instru- ment is pushed through this hypertrophied lobe. The prostate is supplied with arteries from the internal pudic, the inferior vesical, and the htemorrhoidal; its veins form a plexus, the prostatic, around the gland, receiving in front the dorsal vein of the penis, and ending behind in the internal iliac vein: its nerves are derived from the hjqDOgastric plexus, and are inter- spersed with ganglion cells ; the lijmplmtics pass to the internal iliac glands. Vesiculz-e The external appearance of these bodies, each Seminales. of which consists of a tube coiled upon itself, has been already described (p. 536). Eespecting their structure, we find that they have an external or connective-tissue coat derived from the recto-vesical fascia; a middle or muscular, consisting of super- ficial fibres arranged transversely, and of deep fibres arranged longitudinally, and continuous with those of the urethra; and an internal or mucous, which is lined by a scaly epithelium, and pre- sents a honeycombed structure, not unlike that of the gall-bladder. The duct emerges from the anterior part of the vesicula, and joins at an acute angle the vas deferens behind the prostate, to forui the common ejaculatory duct (p. 535). Its arteries come from the consisting of phosphate of lime. Cases are sometimes met with in which these calcuh by degrees attain a considerable size, and distend the prostate into a sac, which, when examined by the rectum, feels not unlike a bag of marbles.