STRUCTUEE OF THE LUNGS. 219 expectoration of tlie mncns. The ciliated epitlielium lining the mucous membrane ceases at the commencement of the air-cells, where it is replaced by the squamous variety. At the root of the lung each bronchus divides into two branches, an upper and a lower, corresponding to the lobes of the lung; on the right side, the lower branch sends a small division to the third lobe of the lung. The tubes diverge through the lung, and divide into branches, successively smaller and smaller, until they lead to the air-cells. These ramifications do not communicate with each other; hence, when a bronchial tube is obstructed, all supply of air is cut off from those cells to which it leads. The several tissues—cartilaginous, fibrous, muscular, mucous, and glandular—which compose the air-passages, are not present in equal proportions throughoiit all their ramifications, but each is placed in greater or less amount where it is required. The car- tilaginous rings necessary to keep the larger tubes permanently oj)en become, in the smaller tubes, fewer and less regular in form. As the subdivisions of the tubes multiply, the cartilages consist of small pieces placed here and there ; they become less and less firm, and finally disappear when the tube is reduced to one-fortieth of an inch in diameter. The smallest air-passages are entirely mem- branous, being formed of fibrous, elastic, and muscular tissues. ^ ^ The lungs are two in number, and occupy the lateral cavities of the chest. Each is conical in shape, its apex extending into the neck, the base resting ©n the upper or convex surface of the diaphragm. The lung presents for examination—an apex, a base, two surfaces, and two borders. The aj^ex extends upwards about an inch and a half above the first rib, and is generally marked by a slight groove for the sub- clavian artery. The base is concave, and slopes downwards at its posterior part. Its Older surface, in contact with the chest wall, is smooth and convex, and is deeper behind than in front. Its inner surface is concave, and hollowed out to accommodate the heart and its large vessels. Its anterior border is sharp and overlaps the large vessels and the pericardium. The posterior border is rounded and rests in the broad groove on the side of the bodies of the dorsal vertebra. On the inner concave surface, a little aboye the middle