536 THE PROSTATE. VEsicuLffl These are situated, one on' either side, between Seminaies. the base of the bladder and the rectum, and serve as reservoirs for the fluid secreted by the testes, and also secrete themselves a fluid accessory to that of the testicles (fig. 127). Each is a tube, but so convoluted that it is like a little sacculated bladder. When rolled up, the tube is about two and a half inches long, and a quarter of an inch in breadth ; unrolled, it would be more than twice that length, and about the size of a small writing quill. Several ceecal prolongations proceed from the main tube, after the manner of a stag's horn. The vesiculee seminales do not run parallel, but diverge from each other, posteriorly, as far as the reflection of the recto-vesical peritoneal pouch, like the branches of the letter V ; and each lies immediately on the outer side of the vas deferens, into which it opens. The vesiculfe seminales contain a brownish-coloured fluid, presumed to be in some way accessory to the function of gene- ration.' Prostate The prostate gland ^ is situated at the neck of Gland. the bladder, and surrounds the first part of the urethra (fig. 127). In the healthy adult it is about the size and shape of a chestnut. Its cqjex is directed forwards as far as the deeper layer of the triangular ligament. It is surrounded by a j)lexus of veins (p. 529), and is maintained in its position by the pelvic fascia (p. 529). Its upjoer surface is about three-quarters of an inch below the symphysis pubis; its apex is about one inch and a half from the anus; the base is about two and a half. Above the prostate are the pubo-prostatic or anterior ligaments of the bladder, with the dorsal vein of the penis between them; heloiv, and in contact with it, is the rectum; on each side of it is the levator ani; in front of it are the membranous part of the urethra (surrounded by its compressor muscle), and the triangular the bladder is empty, the vas deferens runs down upon the side of the pehis. In this course it may be seen, through the peritoneum, crossing—1, the external ihac vessels; 2, the remains of the umbilical artery ; 3, the obturator artery and nerve; 4, the ureter. ' The vesiculffi seminales are imperfectly developed till the age of puberty. In a child three years of age they can hardly be inflated with the blowpipe. ^ From irpolo-Tij/xi, to stand before.