586 STRUCTURE OF THE SPLEEN. weight, consistently with health, between five and ten ounces.' It is of a reddish-blue colour, is more or less elliptical in shape, and, in its natural position, is placed with its long axis nearly vertical. It is about five inches in length, three to four inches in breadth, and from one to one and a half inch in thickness. Its outer surfuxe is smooth and convex, and corresponds to the ninth, tenth, and eleventh ribs on the left side, being in relation with the under aspect of the diaphragm ; its inner surface is concave, and is adapted to the cardiac end of the stomach ; this surface is divided into a larger anterior and a smaller posterior portion by a vertical fissure —the hilitin—at the bottom of which are large openings, through which the vessels enter and emerge from the spleen. The borders are: an upper, thick and rounded; a loiver, pointed; a postericn; rounded ; and an anterior, also rounded, and often notched. As already mentioned, the spleen is connected to the stomach by the gastro-splenic omentum, and to the u.nder aspect of the dia- phragm by the saspensorij ligament. The spleen is invested with two coats—a serous or peritoneal, and a fibro-elastic. The outer or serous coat entirely covers the organ, except at the hilum, from which it is reflected to the stomach; it is thin and smooth, and is intimately connected to the subjacent fibi'ous coat. Its fibro-elastic coat (tunica propria), thick and sti'ong, not only covers the spleen, but sends inwards throughout its sub- stance fibrous bands (traheculce), which interlace in all directions, and thus form an intricate network of what are termed trabeciilwr spaces or areolce ; this coat consists of a strong, white, and elastic tissue, and is consequently exceedinglj^ elastic to admit of the vary- ing size of the spleen ; it moreover contains more or less unstriped muscular fibres, so that it contracts faintly on the application of the galvanic current. Besides this, the trabeculte form sheaths and supports for the splenic vessels throughout their ramifications. The areola3, above described, are filled with what is termed the spleen pidp. This pulp is a soft reddish-brown substance, and, under the microscope, is seen to consist of connective-tissue ' In ague and other forms of fever, it sometimes attains a weight of from 18 to 20 pounds ; it diminishes in weight after forty years of age, and is enlarged during and after digestion.