ABDOMINAL MUSCLES. 425 arranged so as to form a slieath for a broad muscle, called tlie rectus, wliich. extends perpendicularly on each side tlie linea alba from the sternum to the os pubis. ExTERN.\L This muscle arises from the outer and lower Oblique. surfaces of the eight or nine lower ribs, by as many pointed bundles, called dicjitations} The upper five of these inter- digitate with similar bundles of the serratus magnus; the three lower correspond in like manner with the origin of the latissimus dorsi; but they cannot be seen unless the body be turned on the side. The upper part of this muscle descends obliquely forwards, and terminates in the aponeurosis of the abdomen; the lower proceeds almost perpendicularly from the last ribs, and is in- serted into the anterior half of the outer lip of the crest of the ilium.^ The a])onearosis of the external oblique increases in strength, breadth, and thickness, as it approaches the lower margin of the abdomen, this being the situation where the greater pressure of the viscera requires the most effective support. Its tendinous fibres take the same direction as the muscle, and form by their decussation in the.middle line the linea alba, which extends from the ensiform cartilage to the os pubis. Above, the aponeurosis be- comes much thinner, and is continiTed on to the pectoralis major and the ribs. The lowest fibres are strong, and form a thick border, called Poupart's ligament. The posterior border of this muscle is fleshy and nearly vertical, and is overlapped in its upper half by the latissimus dorsi. The aponeurosis is perforated by numerous cutaneous vessels and nerves for the supply of the skin and subjacent tissues ; at its lower and inner aspect, close to the spine of the os pubis, there is a large oval opening called the external abdominal ring, transmitting in the male the spermatic cord, and in the female the round liga- ment. ' The upper digitations are attached to the ribs close to their cartilages ; the lower ones to the ribs some distance from the cartilages; the last to the apex of the twelfth rib. - From its position and the direction of its fibres, it is manifest that the external oblique represents, in the abdomen, the external intercostal muscles of the chest.