HAMSTRING MUSCLES. 671 Fig. 156. Action of the Haiisteixg Muscles. it occasionally communicates with the synovial membrane of the knee-joint, not directly, but through the medium of another bursa beneath the inner head of the gastrocnemius. From an examina- tion of 150 bodies, it appears that this communication exists about once in five times ; and it need scarcely be said that the proportion is large enough to make us cautious in in- terfering with this bursa when it becomes enlarged.^ These muscles produce two different effects, ac- cording as their fixed point is at the pelvis or the knee. With the fixed point at the pelvis, they bend the knee; with the fixed point at the knee, they take a very important part in maintaining the body erect. For instance, if, when standing, the body be bent at the hip, and the muscles in question be felt, it will be found that they are in strong- action, to prevent the trunk from falling forwards: they, too, are the chief agents concerned in bringing the body back again to the erect position. In doing this, they act upon a lever of the first order, as shown in fig. 156 ; the acetabulum being the fulcrum F, the trunk w, the weight to be moved, and the power P at the tuber ischii. To put the action of the muscles of the thigh on the pelvis in the clearest point of view, let us suppose we are standing upon one leg: the bones of the lower extremity represent a pillar which supports the weight of the trunk on a ball-and-socket joint; the weight is nicely balanced on all sides, and prevented from falling ' When the bursa in question becomes enlarged, it occasions a fluctuating swelling of greater or less dimensions on the inner side of the popliteal space. The swelling bulges out, and becomes tense and elastic when the knee is extended, and vice versa. As to its shape, it is generally oblong; but this is subject to variety, for we know that the burstc, when enlarged, are apt to become multilocular, and to extend between the muscles where there is the least resistance.