225 THE THAJIYNX. ■separate them from the prevertebral muscles which lie immediately in front of the bodies of the cervical vertebra3, and to which they •are but loosely connected. The sawn surface of the skull should now be allowed to rest horizontally upon the table, and the base should then be sawn or chiselled through transversely between the vertebral column and the styloid processes of the temporal bone. It is not always easy to keep the saw so well behind the pharynx and the vessels and nerves as to detach them without injury, in which case it is well to use the chisel in preference. When this is accom- plished the student will find that the pharynx and larynx are left attached to the anterior half of the section; the spinal column and the prevertebral muscles to the posterior half. -Tow should then be introduced through the mouth and oesophagus to distend the walls of the pharynx. The front section is now to be fastened to a block by means of hooks, so that the pharyngeal muscles are towards the dissector, and the oesophagus downwards. One side of the pharynx should be dissected to show the con- strictor muscles, the other should be reserved for the vessels and nerves in immediate relation with the pharynx. General De- The term pharynx is applied to that part of the BCEiPTioN OF alimentary canal which receives the food after it Pharynx. j^^g j^een masticated, and propels it downwards into the oesophagus. It is a funnel-shaped muscula rbag, about four and a half inches in length, and broader in its transverse than in its antero-posterior diameter. Its broadest portion is situated opposite the os hyoides, and it then gradually tapers as far as the cricoid cartilage, where it is continuous with the oesophagus, which is its narrowest portion. Its xvpper part is attached to the basi- lar process of the occipital bone and the petrous portions of the temporal bones; behind, it is loosely connected by deep cervical fascia with the prevertebral muscles;' in front, it is attached to the internal pterygoid plates and hamu'lar processes of the sphenoid, to the pterygo-maxillary ligaments, the lower jaw, the tongue, the hyoid bone, and the stylo-hyoid ligaments, and to the thyroid and cricoid cartilages; laterally, it is loosely connected ' It is in this tissue (which never contains fat) that post-pharyngeal abscesses are seated. Q