262 SPHENO-PALATINE GANGLION. h. Descending branches.—To see these the mucous membrane must be removed from the back part of the nose : we shall then be able to trace the nerves through their bony canals. Their course is indicated by their accompanjdng arteries. They descend through the palatine canals, and are three in number. The anterior 2}alatine nerve, the largest, descends through the posterior palatine canal to the roof of the mouth, and then divides into branches, which run in grooves in the hard palate nearly to the gums of the incisor teeth, where it communi- cates with the naso-palatine nerve. "Within its canal it sends twa inferior nasal branches which enter the nose through foramina in the palate bone to supply the membrane on the middle and lower spongy bones. The posterior or smaller palatine descends in the same canal with the anterior, or in a smaller one of its own, and suppHes the mucous membrane of the soft palate, the tonsil, and (according to Meckel) the levator palati muscle.' The external 2)alatine may be traced in a special canal down to the soft palate, where it terminates m branches to the uvula, the palate, and tonsil. The two last branches communicate with the tonsillar filaments of the glosso-pharyngeal to form the tonsillar plexus of nerves. c. Internal branches.—^These, three or four in number, pass through the spheno-palatine foramen to the mucous membrane of the nose. To see them clearly, the parts should have been steeped in dilute nitric acid ; afterwards, when well washed, these minute filaments may be recognised beneath the mucous membrane covering the spongy bones. The upper nasal bi'anches, four or five in number, pass inwards, and are distributed on the two upper spongy bones, the upper and back part of the septum and the posterior ethmoidal cells. The naso-palatine (nerve of Cotunnius), traverses the roof of the nose, distributes branches to the back part of the septum narium, and then proceeds obliquely forwards, along the septum, to the foramen incisivum, through which it passes, and finally terminates in the palate behind the incisor teeth, communi- cating here with the anterior palatine nerve. d. Posterior branches.— The pharync/eal nerve (pterygo-palatine), very small, comes off from the back of the ganglion, and, after passing ' According to Longet {Anat. et Physiol, du Systeme Nerveux, Paris, 1842), the posterior palatine nerve supplies the levator palati and the azygos uvulae with motor power. In this view of the subject the nerve is considered to be the con- tinuation or terminal branch of the motor root of the ganglion : that, namely, derived from the facial. This opinion is supported by cases in which the uvula is stated to have been drawn on one side in consequence of paralysis of the oppo-. site facial nerve.