VENTRAL HERNIiE. 447 Its coverings are skin, subcutaneous fat and connective tissue, a thin fascia wliicli covers in tlie umbilical aperture, fascia trans- versalis, subperitoneal fat, and peritoneum. The seat of strangulation in this variety of hernia is the fibrous margin of the umbilical aperture. This must be divided, and, as there are no vessels or other structures of importance near it, the margin may be divided at any part most convenient to the operator. Owing to the size which umbilical herniee frequently attain, it is not always easy to divide the constricting margin, and great care is needed to prevent the intestines being injured during the operation. Ventrai This term is applied to those forms of hernia Hernia. which protrude through the abdominal walls in situations not included in the inguinal and umbilical varieties. The most common variety is that which comes through the linea alba, usually above the umbilicus. They are small and mushroom- shaped, with narrow pedicles, and are commonly irreducible. In some cases, these protrusions are masses of subperitoneal fat emerging through foramina in the linea alba, growing after they protrude • so that these are not herniee in the strict sense of the term. Ventral hernia occasionally come through the linea semilunaris; others come through the triangular interval between the latissimus dorsi and posterior free border of the external oblique, and are termed lumbar hernice. There is, in fact, no part of the abdominal walls through which a hernia may not protrude. Expose the contents of the abdomen, by an in- cision from the ensiform cartilage to the os pubis a little to the left side of the linea alba, so as to preserve a ligament, ligamenhim teres, which passes from the umbilicus to the liver, and also a cord, the tirachus, which ascends in the middle line from the bladder to the umbilicus; then make another incision transversely on a level with the umbilicus, and turn the flaps outwards. Ubachxjs Behind the linea alba, the peritoneum is raised into a fold by a fibrous cord, passing from the bladder to the umbilicus: this is the iiraclms, which in foetal life is a tube connecting the bladder with the allantois. On either