STRUCTURE OF THE UTERUS. 670 uterus it is almost impossible to trace them. In the impregnated condition it is less difficult to trace them, and we can make out that the fibres are arranged in three layers—an external, a middle, and an internal.' The external laijer, placed immediately beneath the peritoneun., is thin, and its fibres, beginning as longitudinal at the cervix, run transversely round the uterus, some of them being continued in an oblique direction over the body into the broad ligaments; these are continued on to the Fallopian tubes, the round ligaments, and the ligaments of the ovaries. A band of longitudinal fibres passes from the anterior surface of the uterus round the fundus to its jDOsterior aspect, beneath the recto-uterine folds of the peritoneum. The middle layer runs in all directions, having no definite arrangement of its fibres. The internal layer is composed mainly of concentric circles which surround the orifices of the Fallopian tubes; at the cervix its fibres are arranged transversely, forming a sphincter. It is this layer which forms the thickest stratum and is closely connected with the mucous membrane; it is called the muscularis mucosa. Upon the whole, the collective disposition of the muscular layers is such as to exert equal pressure on all sides, when called into action. At the same time that they expel the foetus, the muscular fibres perform another very important function: they close the large venous sinuses consequent upon the great increase in the amount of blood during pregnancy. Therefore, little hfemor- rhage accompanies the expvUsion of the placenta, provided it have been attached to the fundus or the side of the uterus. But every- one knows the danger of what is called placenta jprcevia. Here, the placenta, placed entirely or partly over the orifice of the uterus, is attached to a part of the organ which must of necessity expand during labour; and every uterine contraction increases, instead of checking, the bleeding. For the same reason, paralysis of the muscular fibres in immediate connection with the placenta, be it where it may, is likely to be a source of serious haamorrhage in parturition. ' In the unimpregnated uterus the muscular fibres are about j\^th of an inch in length ; in the gravid uterus they increase to j^th of an inch.