STRUCTURE OF THE SUPRA-RENAL CAPSULES. 595 The renal veins return the blood from three sources : from the veins situated beneath the capsule and those corresponding to the interlobular arteries which pass between the medullary rays, and at the bases of the Malpighian pyramids join the vense rectas ; the venfe rect^ return the blood from the arteriolee rectse, and begin in plexnses at the apices of the pyramids, they then pass outwards between the tubuli recti, and join the interlobular veins to form the proper renal veins; these pass down along the sides of the Malpighian pyramids, accompanied by their corresponding arteries, and in their course to the sinus receive the efferent veins from the adjacent cortical substance. At the sinus they communicate freely with each other and join to form the renal vein. The nerves, about fifteen in number, forming the renal plexus, are derived from the lesser and smallest splanchnic nerves, the solar plexus, and the semilunar ganglion. The lijmpliatics, consisting of a deep and a superficial set, pass to the lumbar glands. SupRA-KENAi These bodies, situated at the top of the kidneys, Capsules. belong to the class of ductless glands. They are of yellow-ochre colour: the right is triangular, and resembles a cocked hat; the left is more almond-shaped and rather the larger of the two. They measure about an inch and a half in their long diameter, about three-quarters in breadth, and two or three lines in thickness; they weigh from one to two drachms. The gland is surrounded by connective tissue and fat, and is invested by a thin fibrous covering, which sends down partitions into the interior through furrows on their surface. A perpendicular section shows that it consists of a firm exterior or cortical part, and of an interior or medullary substance, soft and pulpy. The cm'tical portion is of a yellow colour and forms the principal J part of the organ. It consists of parallel columns arranged per- 1 pendicularly to the surface, due to the capsule sending processes ^ within the capsule ; some, that the tuft is completely invested with epithelium, ' except where the afferent and efferent vessels pass in; others, again, that only t that portion of the glomerulus which looks towards the neck of the tubule is <■ covered with epithelium. Q Q 2