336 NERVES OF THE UPPER ARM. namely, the median, the musculo-cutaneous, the ulnar, and tlie musculo-spiral nerves. The median nerve, so called from the course ifc Median Nekve. j, , ,ip n ^ t,„ takes along the iront oi the arm and the forearm, arises by two roots, which converge in front of the axillary artery (p. 321). The external root is derived from the outer cord, in com- mon with the musculo-cutaneous ; the internal from the inner cord, in common with the ulnar and internal cutaneous. In its course down the arm, the nerve is situated at first on the outer side of the brachial artery, between it and the coraco-brachialis; about the middle of the arm the nerve crosses obliquely over (in some cases under) the vessel, so that at the bend of the elbow it is found on the inner side of the artery, lying upon the' brachialis anticus, and covered by the semilunar fascia from the biceps.' As a summary of the distribution of the median nerve, we may say that it supplies the two pronators and all the flexors of the forearm (except the flexor carpi ulnaris and the ulnar half of the ' I have observed the following varieties relating to the median nerve, and its course in regard to the artery. ft. The roots may be increased in number by one on either side of the artery; or the internal root may be deficient. h. They may vary in their position with regard to the artery : both may be situated behind the vessel; or one behind, and the other in front of it. c. The nerve, formed in the usual manner, may be joined lower down by a large branch from the external cutaneous ; such a case presents a junction of two large nerves in front of the brachial artery, in the middle of the arm. d. The nerve in many cases crosses under, instead of over the artery. c. The nerve sometimes runs parallel and external to the artery; or it may run parallel to, and in front of, the artery. In one hundred arms the relative position of the nerve to the artery in its course down the arm was as follows :— In 72, the nerve took the ordinary course. ,, 20, the nerve crossed obliquely under the artery. ,, 5, the nerve ran parallel and superficial to the artery. ,, 3, the nerve ran parallel and external to the artery. These varieties of the median nerve are of practical importance, for this reason : whenever in the operation of tying the brachial artery, we do not find the nerve in its normal position, we may expect to find some irregular distribution of the arteries—e.(7. a high division of the brachial, or even, which I have often seen, a ' vas aberrans ' coming from the upper part of the brachial, and joining either the radial or ulnar arteries.