553 PROSTATE GLAND. prostate, and beneath the middle; its coats are comparatively thick with some muscular tissue enclosed in them, and it is lined with squamous epithelium. The minute orifices of the ducts are seen opening into the floor of the prostatic sinus. The substance of the gland is permeated by the divisions and subdivisions of the ducts. They are not visible to the naked eye, but if traced out with the microscope, they are seen to terminate in blind sacculated extremities, npon which the capillaries ramify in rich profusion.^ Stbucxuee op The prostate is surrounded by a firm capsule of THE Prostate. fibrous tissue, and is composed of muscular as well as glandular tissue. Nearly two-thirds of it is made up of iin- striped muscular fibres, which constitute the stroma of the gland, and have the following arrangement: externally, beneath the cap- sule, they form a thick layer, continuous behind with the external muscular layer of the bladder; and in front they are arranged in a circular manner round the urethra at its vesical orifice, so as to form in conjunction with the vesical muscular tissue, a sphincter; the next layer forms a dense interlacing stratum, in the meshes of which is found the glandular tissue ; the deepest layer consists of a thick layer of circular fibres, blending posteriorly with the in- ternal vesical muscular layer, and continuous in front with those of the membranous part of the urethra. The anterior part of the prostate is chiefly muscular; posteriorly, the glandular elements predominate. • The fjlandular tissue consists of numerous tubular alveoli, which open into elongated excretory ducts lined with columnar epithelium. The alveoli are connected together by connective tissue, associated with fibrous prolongations from the capsule of the gland, and with the muscular tissue. The excretory ducts are from twelve to twenty in number, and open into the prostatic sinus in the floor of the urethra.2 The prostate is remarkable for its dilatability. • This was first demonstrated by the late Mr. Quekett. The same anatomist has also discovered that the secreting cells of the gland contain calculi of micro- scopic minuteness. He finds them, almost without exception, in the prostate at every period of life. For further detail concerning them, consult the article ' Prostate ' in Todd's Gyclopadia. ^ In the ducts of the prostate we often find small calculi, of a brown colour,