FOURTH VENTRICLE. 771 part is overlapped by a corrugated lobule of grey matter from the anterior part of the cerebellum, and is called the Ungiietta lammosa. The third ventricle is connected with the fourth Itkk a Tertio u) Qc\ETUM ^ canal, large enough to admit a probe, which Ventriculuji, runs downwards and backwards beneath the pos- oR Aqueduct ■ terior commissure and the corpora quadrigemina. OF Sylvius. g^-]-,Q^^ j^g^jf i-n.ch. in length, and its shape varies in different parts of its course : in the lower being T-shaped, and in the iipper part shield-shaped, on transverse section. In its walls is a large amount of grey matter, in which are the nuclei of origin of the third, fourth, and upper part of the fifth cranial nerves. It is lined with ciliated columnar epithelium. This pas- sage, together with the third and fourth ventricles, are persistent parts of the central canal, which in early foetal life extended down the middle of the cerebro-spinal axis. It subsequently becomes much encroached upon by the large increase of grey substance in the process of development. Fourth The fourth ventricle is the space situated be- Vextricle. t n the cerebellum behind and the posterior surface of the medulla oblongata and pons Varolii in front. It is the dilated portion of the primordial canal alluded to in the last paragraph. If viewed in a vertical section, as represented in the diagram (fig. 184), it appears triangular, with its base forwards; but if seen from behind, it is a lozenge-shaped space, the long axis being antero-posterior (fig. 190). The ujyjper ivall or roof of the fourth ventricle is formed by the valve of Vieussens, and by the front of the inferior vermiform process, with the two amygdalae; laterally it is bounded, in front by the I processus a cerebeUo ad cerebrum, and behind by the diverging I posterior pyramids and restiform bodies ; beloiv, by the continua- Ition of the arachnoid membrane on to the posterior surface of the J spinal cord, in which there is an aperture called the foramen of IMagencUe; in front its floor is formed by the medulla oblongata aand pons Varolii. The pia mater is prolonged for a short distance to the lower part of the cavity, and forms the choroid plexus of he fourth ventricle. 3 n 2