844 THE TESTIS. rete, its tubes converge to form twelve to fifteen tubes, termed vasa efferentia, whicb perforate tlie tunica albuginea, and convey the seminal secretion to the upper part of the epididymis. The vasa efFerentia are at first straight, but ultimately form a number of coils termed com vasculosi, which collectively constitute the globus major of the epididymis. The coni vasculosi are about -g^th. of an inch in diameter, and about six to eight lines long • when unravelled they attain a length of six to eight inches. At the globus major the smaller tubes terminate in a single duct, the canal of the epididymis, wbich in its descent describes an extremely tortuous coil, constituting the body and globus minor of the epididymis. The length of the canal of the epididymis is, in its natural condition, about three inches, but when unravelled it is nearly twenty feet in length. The diameter of the canal at its commencement is about -^th. of an inch ; at the globus minor about g^th of an inch, after which it again increases in diameter. It is lined with columnar ciliated epithelium. ^ J), , , '^'^^ deferens begins at the lower part of the globus minor ; at first it is somewhat convoluted, but, as it ascends behind the epididymis, it becomes subsequently straight, and joins the other component parts of the cord. After passing through the inguinal canal, it enters the abdomen through the internal ring. It then winds round the outer side of the deep epigastric artery, and, after crossing over the external iliac artery and vein, it enters the pelvis, curves round the side and lower part of the bladder, and empties itself into the prostatic part of the urethra, after running a course of about two feet. Its course in the abdomen has been previously described (p. 535). In connection with th.e anterior aspect of the cord, just above the epididymis, are two or three small masses of convoluted tubes, which are known as the organ of Giraides, or the parepididpiis. They are lined with squamous epithelium, and are probably the remains of part of the WolQian body. The vas aherrans is a small convoluted tubule, with a cffical extremity, found between the epididymis and the cord, and com- municating usually with the canal of bhe epididymis. It is about an incb in length, but, when frayed out, varies from two to twelve