94 FACIAL VEIN. SuBMAxiLLAEY Ih tliG Ordinary position of the head, the sub- S.iiivAiiY Gland. maxillary gland is partially concealed by the jaw, but when the head falls back the gland is more exposed. It is about the size of a chestnut, weighs about two drachms, and is divided into several lobes. Its upper margin is covered by the body of the jaw; its lower margin overlaps the side of the os hyoides. Its cutaneous surface is flat, being covered only by the skin, platysma, and deep cervical fascia ; but the lobes on its deep surface are irregular, and often continuous with those of the sub- lingual gland. By raising the gland we find that it lies upon the mylo-liyoideus, the hyo-glossus, the stylo-glossus, the tendon of the digastricus, and a portion of the hypoglossal nerve, seen above the tendon. Part of the gland passes beneath the posterior border of the mylo-hyoid, and not infrequently becomes continuous with the sublingual gland. The facial artery lies in a groove on its deeper surface, and subsequently upon its upper border; and it is separated from the parotid gland, which is situated behind it, by the stylo-maxillary ligament. Mark these relations well, because they are of importance, as will be presently explained in tying the lingual artery. The duct of the a'land cannot at this staofe of the dissection be traced further, for it runs forwards, under cover of the mylo- hyoideus, to end in the floor of the mouth, by the side of the frsenum linguae. The description of its course and relations had better therefore be deferred till it can be dissected in its whole length with the gustatory nerve in the pterygoid region. ^ „ The facial vein does not accompany the facial Facial Vein. . , artery, but runs nearly a straight course. It leaves the face at the anterior edge of the masseter m., then runs over the submaxillary gland, the digastricus and stylo-hyoideus and the carotid artery, to join the internal jugular. This is the rule —but there are frequent exceptions. Before it empties itself into the internal jugular it is joined by a large branch from the external jugular vein. The principal point to remember is, that the vein runs superficial to the gland, and that we must be cautious in opening abscesses under the jaw.