729 GREY MATTER OF THE MEDULLA. back of the medulla. At tlie apex of tlie fourth ventricle they diverge from each other and receive bundles of accessory fibres from the anterior pyramids and the lateral tracts, and are con- tinued partly into the cerebellum, forming its inferior crura, and partly as the fasciculi teretes along the floor of the fourth ventricle into the cerebrum. Posterior The posterior pyramids are the continuations Pyeamids. upwards of the posterior median columns of the spinal cord; and, like the restiform body, each divides into two fasciculi, one of which ascends and helps to form the inferior crus of the cerebellum, the other runs up with the fasciculus teres. Skptum OB The horizontal fibres in the medulla oblongata Raphe. were first accurately described by Stilling and Eolando, and subsequently by Clarke and others. Some of them form a septum and divide the medulla oblongata into symmetrical halves ; some run longitudinally and others obliquely. The fibres which run from the dorsal to the ventral surface of the medulla—fihrce rectce—pass outwards, in front, from the anterior median fissure, and are continuous with the superficial arched fibres of Rolando; while, behind, they are continiious with the fibres of the fasciculi gracUes and their grey nuclei. The longitudinal fibres run vertically . and are derived from the arcuate fibres and the fibrae rectae which i have altered their direction. The oblique fibres consist of the deep 8 ajcuate fibres which enter, or come out of the septum, and then 1 pass to the outer part of the medulla. Some fibres, again, are t transverse commissural fibres, and pass into the opposite anterior I pyramid or the formatio reticularis,^ and eventually assume a longitudinal direction. Grey Matter Although in the lower part of the medulla the >;0F THE Medulla, grey matter in its interior is arranged in the same »way as it is in the spinal cord, yet owing to the course of the de- »cussating fibres of the lateral tracts which break up the anterior Igrey cornua in front, and to the diverging restiform bodies and iposterior pyramids behind, the grey matter in the upper two-thirds • The formatio reticularis comprises the anterior and lateral parts of the Knedulla, and consists of intersecting fibres which cross each other at right angles, SBome being longitudinal and some transverse in their direction.