I Osborn on Diseases of the Testis, 14 on Hydrocele, 14 Owen's Materia Mttlica, 7 Page's Injuries of the Spine, 11 Parkes' Practical Hygiene, 5 Pavy on Diabetes, g on Food and Dietetics, g Pharniacopajia of the London Hospital, 7 Phillips' Materia Medica and Therapeutics, 7 Pollock on Rheumatism, 9 Porritt's Intra-Thoracic Effusion, 8 Pridham on Asthma, 8 Purcell on Cancer, 13 Quinby's Notes on Dental Practice, 13 Ralfe's Morbid Conditions of the Urine, 14 Ramsbotham's Obstetrics, 6 Raye's Ambulance Handbook, to Reynolds' (J. J.) Diseases of Women, 6 Notes on Midwifery', 6 Rivington's Rupture of the Urinary Bladder, 14 Roberts' (C.) Manual of Anthropometry, 5 Detection of Colour-Blindness, 5 Roberts' (D. Lloyd) Practice of Midwifery, 5 Ross's Diseases of the Nervous System, 9 Roth on Dress : Its Sanitary Aspect, 4 Routh's Infant Feeding, 6 Royle and Harley's Materia Medica, 7 Sanderson's Physiological Handbook, 4 Sansom's Diseases of the Heart, 9 Savage on the Female Pelvic Organs, 6 Sayre's Orthopa;dic Surgery, 11 Schroeder's Manual of Midwifery, 6 Sewill's Dental Anatomy, 12 Sheppard on Madness, 5 Sibson's Medical Anatomy, 3 Sieveking's Life Assurance, 14 Smith's (E.) Clinical Studies, 6 Wasting Diseasesof Infants and Children, I Smith's (Henry) Surgery of the Rectum, 14 Smith's (Heywood) Dysmenorrhoea, 6 Smith (Priestley) on Glaucoma, 12 Snell's Electro-Magnet in Ophthalmic Surgery, 11 Snow's Clinical Notes on Cancer, 13 Southam's Regional Surgery, 10 Sparks on the Riviera, 10 Squire's Companion to the Pharmacopoeia, 7 Pharmacopojias of London Hospitals, 7 Starkweather on the Law of Sex, 4 Stills and Maisch's National Dispensatory, 7 Stimson on Fractures, n Stocken's Dental Materia Medica and Therapeutics, i :—coiitinneii. Swain's Surgical Emergencies, 10 Swayne's Obstetric Aphorisms, 6 ■Taylor's Medical Jurisprudence, 4 — Poisons in relation to Medical Jurisprudence, 4 Teale's Dangers to Health, 4 Thompson's (Sir H.) Calculous Disease, 13 Diseases of the Prostate, 13 Diseases of the Urinary Organs, 13 Lithotomy and Lithotrity, 13 Tumours of the Bladder, 13 Thompson's (Dr. H.) Clinical Lectures, 8 Thorowgood on Asthma, 9 ^ on Materia Medica and Therapeutics, 7 Thudichum's Patholo^ of the Urine, 14 Tibbits' Medical and Surgical Electricity, 10 — Map of Motor Points, 10 Tidy and Woodman's Forensic Medicine, 4 Tilt's Change of Life, 6 ■ Uterine Therapeutics, 6 Tomes' (C. S.) Dental Anatomy, 12 Tomes' (J. and C. S.) Dental Surgery, 12 Tosswill's Diseases and Injuries of the Eye, 11 Tuke's Influence of the Mind upon the Body, 5 Sleep-Walking and Hj'pnotism, 5 Van Buren on the Genito-Urinary Organs, 14 Vintras on the Mineral Waters, &c., of France, 10 Virchow's Post-mortem Examinations, 4 Wagstafi'e's Human Osteology, 3 Walker's Ophthalmology, 11 Waring's Indian Bazaar Medicines, 7 Warner's Guide to Medical Case-Taking, 8 Warren's Hernia and Rupture, 11 Waters' (A. T. H.) Diseases of the Chest, 8 Waters (J. H.) on Fits, 9 Wells (Spencer) on Ovarian and Uterine Tumours, 6 West and Duncan's Diseases of Women, 6 West (S.) How to Examine the Chest, 8 Whistler's Syphilis of the Larynx, 12 Whittaker's Primer on the Urine, 14 Wilks' Diseases of the Nervous System, 9 Wilks and Moxon's Pathological Anatomy, 4 Wilson's (Sir E.) Anatomists' Vade-Mecum, 3 Lectures on Dermatology, 13 Wilson's (G.) Handbook of Hygiene, 5 Healthy Life and Dwellings, 5 Wilson's (W. S.) Ocean as a Health-Resort, 10 Wolfe's Diseases and Injuries of the Eye, ii Yeo (G. F.) Manual of Physiology, 4 Yeo (J. B.) Contagiousness of Pulmonarj' Consump- tion, 8 Zander Institute Mechanical Exercises, 10 The following Catalogues issued by J. & A. Churchill will be forwarded post free on application :— A. J. A. ChurchiWs General List of about 650 works on Anatomy, Physiology, Hygienic, Midwifery, Materia Medica, Medicine, Surgery, Chemistry, Botany, ^-c, %-c., with a complete Index to their Subjects, for, easy reference. N.B.—This List includes B, C, & D. B. Selection from J. ^ A. ChurchilPs General List, co7nprising all recent Works published by them on the Art and Science of Medicine. C. J. S; A. ChurchiWs Catalogue of Text Books specially atTanged for Students. D. A selected and descriptive List of J. 4" ^- ChurchilPs Works on Chemistry, Materia Medica, Pharmacy, Botany, Photography, Zoology, tlie Microscope, and other branches of Science. B. The Half-yearly List of New Works and New Editions published by J. c^- A. Churchill during the previous six months, together with particulars of the Periodicals issued from their House. [Sent in January and July of each year to every Medical Practitioner in the United Kingdom whose name and address can be ascertained. A large number are also sent to the United States of America, Continental Europe, India, and the Colonies.] America.—J. ^ A. Churchill being in constant communication with various publishing houses in Boston, Nezu York, and Philadelphia, are able, notivithstanding the absence of international copyright, to conduct negotiations favourable to English Autliors. LONDON: NEW BURLINGTON STREET. Pardon ,f- Sons, r, i„lcr3,\ [Patoiioster Mow, amnfinej-W" Co«r*- /"i So