DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 753 tnents as low down as tlie fiftH or sixtli cervical vertebra. The spinal portion ascends behind the ligamentum denticulatum, through the foramen magnum, into the skull, and joins the accessory- part. The nervus accessorius then passes through the foramen jugulare with the two preceding nerves ; its accessory portion joins the pneumogastric nerve, and its spinal portion supplies the sterno-mastoid and the trapezius. The course and distribution of this nerve have been described in the dissection of the head and neck. The Twelfth The hypoglossal nerve arises by several filaments OR Hypoglossal from the medulla, which emerge from the groove Nerves. between the anterior pyramid and the olivary body. Its fibres may be traced to a long grey nucleus, which forms an eminence in the floor of the fourth ventricle, in front and to the inner side of the vagal nucleus. The filaments are collected into two fasciculi, which pierce the dura mater through two aper- tures and join in the anterior condylar foramen; it is distributed to the muscles of the tongue and the depressor muscles of the os hyoides and larynx. Dissection op The brain should now be laid on its base. We THE Brain. first notice a median fissure, separating the cere- brum into two symmetrical hemispheres: this is the longitudinal fissure. By gently separating the hemispheres we see that the fissure extends in front and behind to the base, but that in the middle there is at the'bottom a white band of nerve-substance, which is the great transverse commissure of the cerebrum, and termed the corpus callosum, upon which are seen the two anterior cerebral arteries. Slice off the hemispheres to about half an inch above the level of the corpus callosum. The cut white surface presents an oval i^ppearance, and is called the centrum ovale minus. The white iBubstance is surrounded by a tortuous layer of grey matter about HDne-eighth of an inch in thickness. This grey substance consists bi four layers—two of grey alternating with two of white, the most Bxtemal layer being white. In some places, chiefly at the base of he brain, six layers have been demonstrated. The white substance spotted with red dots (jpuncta vasculosa) \ these are due to the 3 c