242 ARYTENOID CARTILAGES. Arytenoid These cartilages are situated, one on each side, Cautilages. at the back of the upper border of the cricoid cartilage. In the recent state, before the membranes and muscles have been removed, the space between them resembles the lip of a pitcher'; hence their name. Each is pyramidal, with the apex upwards, is about five or six lines in height, and three lines in diameter at its base, and presents for examination three surfaces (marked off by three borders), a base and an apex. The posterior surface of each is triangular and concave, and gives attachment to the arytenoideus muscle; the anterior surface is irregular and convex, affording attachment to the thyro-arytenoideus, and to the superior or false vocal cord; the internal surface, the narrowest and nearly flat, faces the corresponding surface of the opposite cartilage, and is covered with mucous inembrane. The hose is broad, and presents a smooth somewhat concave triangular surface which articulates with the cricoid cartilage; in front of the base is the pointed anterior angle, which gives attachment to the true vocal cord, and contributes to form part of the boundary of the rima glottidis; at the outer and back part of the base is the external angle, into which certain muscles moving the cartilage are inserted, viz. the crico-arytenoideus posticus and crico-aryte- noideus lateralis. The base is articulated with the cricoid by a joint which has a loose capsular ligament and a synovial membrane, per- mitting motion in all directions, like the first joint of the thumb. The ape» is truncated and jjoints backwards and inwards. It is sur- mounted by a cartilaginous nodule, called the corniculam lari/ngis. Coenicula -^re two small conical cartilaginous nodules, and Labyngis. continue the direction of the arytenoid cartilages upwards and inwards. Cuneiform These cartilages, sometimes called the cartilages Cartilages. of Wrisberg, are conical in form, and somewhat curved, with their broader part directed upwards and forwards. They are contained in the aryteno-epiglottidean fold. This piece of yellow fibro-cartUage is situated in Epiglottis. ^-^^ middle line, and projects over the larynx like a valve. It is like a leaf with its stalk directed downwards. Its • 'Apiratva, a pitcher.