PARTS CONCERNED IN INGUINAL HERNIA. 442 of tlie abdomen, called the inguinal canal. A portion of peri- toneum is pouched out before the descending testis, and consti- tutes the tunica vaginalis testis. The blood-vessels, nerves, and vas deferens are drawn down with the testis, and constitute the spermatic cord. The inguinal canal runs obliquely through thii abdominal wall, that it may the better resist the protrusion of intestine. The wall of the abdomen, as previously stated, is composed of various strata, and the testis and cord in their passage through each stratum derive from each a covering similar in structure to the stratum itself. Of these strata there are three: the first, pro- ceeding from within outwards, is the fascial stratum derived from the fascia transversalis; the second is the muscular stratum (cre- masteric) from the internal oblique and transversalis muscles; the third is the aponeurotic stratum from the external oblique. The passage of the testis through the lower part of the ab- dominal parietes (inguinal canal) occasions, at this part of the belly, a natural weakness which, associated with other conditions,' favours the protrusion of intestine in this situation. A protrusion of intestine through any part of the inguinal canal is called an inguinal liernia: of which, two chief varieties exist, the indirect or ohlique, and the direct; the former protrud- ing to the outer side of the deep epigastric artery j the latter coming out to the inner side of the artery. Oblique The most common form of inguinal hernia is iNQuiN.Ui Heekia. that in which a portion of intestine protrudes first through the internal ring, then, traversing the inguinal canal, emerges through the external ring, and thence may descend into the scrotum. This variety is called an oblique inguinal liernia} If the intestine stops within the inguinal canal, it is called an hv- complete inguinal hernia; if, however, the protrusion has emerged through the external ring, it is called a com-plete ingicinal hernia; and, lastly, if it descends iuto the scrotum, it is called a scrotal hernia. ' A hernia is sometimes called external or internal, according to the relation of the protrusion to the deep epigastric artery : thus, an oblique inguinal hernia which first protrudes through the inner ring is called an external hernia, and vice versa.