MUSCLES OF THE FOREARM. 344 of its tendon is tile guide to the radial artery in the lower half of the forearm. Its nerve comes from the median.' Palmaeis This slender muscle arises from the common LoNGus. tendon at the internal condyle, from the inter- muscular septa, and from the fascia of the forearm. About the middle of the forearm it terminates in a flat tendon, which de- scends along the middle of the forearm to the wrist, lying upon the flexor sublimis digitorum; it then passes over the anterior annular ligament, and is continued into the palmar fascia. This muscle is a tensor of the palmar fascia.'^ Its nerve comes from the median. Flexok Cahpi This muscle arises by two heads : one from the Ulnams. internal condyle, the common tendon, and the intermuscular septum; the other from the inner edge of the olecranon ; these two origins form an arch, under which the ulnar nerve and the posterior ulnar recurrent artery pass. It also arises from the upper two-thirds of the posterior edge of the ulna, through the medium of the aponeurosis, which is common to this muscle, the flexor profundus digitorum, and the extensor carpi nlnaris. The tendon appears on the radial side of the muscle, about the lower third of the forearm, and receives fleshy fibres on its ulnar side as low as the wrist. It is inserted into the pisiform bone, and thence by a strong tendon into the unciform and the base of the fifth metacarpal bone. Its nerve comes from the ulnar. The tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris is the guide to the ulnar artery, which lies close to its radial side, and is overlapped by it. As it passes over the annular ligament, the tendon furnishes a fibrous expansion to protect the ulnar artery and nerve. Flexor Sdbli- This muscle has three distinct origins, and is MIS Digitorum. situated beneath those previously mentioned, so ' A muscle is not infrequently found beneath this muscle, called, by Mr. Wood the flexor carpi radialis brevis, or profundus. It arises from the front of the radius above the pronator quadratus, and is inserted into the base of the meta- carpal bone of the middle finger. (Journ. of Anat. and Phys., p. 55, Nov. 1866.) The palmaris longus is absent in about one out of ten subjects. The situa- tion of its muscular portion is subject to variety ; sometimes occupying the middle, sometimes the lower third of the forearm. The tendon is in some instances wholly inserted into the anterior annular ligament.