INTERCOSTAL MUSCLES. 190 abdomen. They connect the contiguous borders of the ribs, passing from the outer lip of the rib above to the upper border of the rib below : they extend from the tubercles of the ribs behind to the costal cartilages in front, and are continued for- wards to the sternum as a thin membrane. The internal run from before backwards like the internal oblique, and pass from the inner lip of the groove in the rib above and from the costal cartilage, and are inserted into the upper border of the rib below. Observe that a few fibres of the inner layer pass over one or even two ribs, chiefly near the angles (especially of the lower ribs), and terminate upon a rib lower down.' Neither of these layers of intercostal muscles extends aU the way between the sternum and the spine : the outer layer, begin- ning at the spine, ceases at the cartilages of the ribs; the inner, commencing at the sternum, ceases at the angles of the ribs. The intercostal muscles present an intermixture of tendinous and fleshy fibres; and they are covered inside and outside the chest by a glistening fascia, to give greater protection to the intercostal spaces. The external intercostal muscles elevate the ribs, and are therefore muscles of inspiration. The internal intercostal muscles depress the ribs, and are therefore muscles of expiration. luTEncosT/tL There are eleven intercostal arteries on each Arteries. side which lie between the internal and external intercostal muscles. The hvo dipper arteries are derived from the superior intercostal branch of the subclavian; the remaining nine are furnished by the thoracic aorta: and since this vessel lies rather on the left side of the spine, the right intercostal arteries are longer than the left. The upper intercostal arteries from the aorta ascend obliquely to reach their intercostal spaces ; the lower run more transversely. They are given off from the back of the descending aorta, and as they pass outwards across the bodies of the vertebrge they are covered by the pleura, and the sympathetic nerves; the right, in addition, pass behind the oesophagus, thoracic duct, and the vena azygos major; the left behind the left superior intercostal vein and the vena azygos minor. Having ' These irregular muscular bundles are called the subcostal muscles.