694 SACRO-ILIAC ARTICULATION. Ligaments of The sacrum is connected with the coccyx by THE Sacrum and means of an anterior and a posterior sacro-coc- cygeal ligament and by an intervertebral fibro- cartilage. The posterior sacro-coccygeal ligament is a flattened fasciculus of fibres extending from the lower margin of the sacral canal to the posterior surface of the coccyx : this ligament closes in the inferior termination of the sacral canal. The anterior sacro-coccygeal ligament is a thin band of fibres passing along the front of the sacrum to the coccyx. The intervertebral disc is a thin layer of fibro-cartilage, firm in the centre, thinner laterally and in front and behind, with occa- sionally a synovial membrane. Laterally, there are some irregular strands of fibres, the lateral ligaments, which extend from the lower lateral part of the sacrum to the transverse process of the coccyx. The segments of the coccyx are in early life separated by interposed fibro-cartilages, which subsequently ossify; they have in front and behind a continuation of the anterior and posterior common ligaments. The innominate bones are connected to each other in front, con- stituting the symphysis pubis j posteriorly, to the sacrum, forming the sacro-iliac symphysis. Sacro-iliac This articulation is an exalnple of that form Articulation. of amphiarthrodial joints where the surfaces are covered with fibro-cartilage, with an incomplete synovial mem- brane. The articulation is formed between the auricular surfaces of the lateral portions of the sacrum and ilium. The anterior part of the bones forming this articulation is incrusted with articular cartilage, of which the shape is like that of the ear. Later in life these two surfaces are more or less connected by thin interarticular transverse fibres, so that the interval between them is very irre- gular, and frequently contains yellow, viscid material. In front of the articulation there is the anterior sacro-iliac ligament, and behind, the posterior sacro-iliac ligament. The anterior sacro-iliac ligament consists of thin ligamentous fibres passing in front of the sacrum and ilium.