182 DESCENDING THORACIC AORTA. little careful dissection the space and the structures contained in it wQl be displayed. This mediastinum contains the descending thoracic aorta with some of the right aortic intercostal arteries; in front of the aorta, the oesophagus, with the pneumogastric nerves, the left in front and the right behind; on the right of the aorta is the vena azygos major, between this vein and the aorta is the thoracic duct; superiorly is the trachea; inferiorly are the splanchnic nerves and some lymphatic glands. To expose these last, we must remove the pleura, and a layer of dense fascia which lines the chest outside it. Descending We have already traced the arch of the' aorta Thobacic AoETA. to the body of the fifth dorsal vertebra (p. 177). From this point, the aorta descends on the left side of the spine, gradually approaching towards the middle line. The artery, more- over, following the dorsal spinal curve, is not vertical, but concave forwards. Opposite the last dorsal vertebra it passes between the crura of the diaphragm and enters the abdomen. It is contained in the posterior mediastinum; on its left side it is covered with pleura enclosing the left lung, and below it has the oesophagus to the left; on its right, rtln the vena azygos, the oesophagus, and thoracic duct; in front of it are, the root of the left lung, and the pericardium. Lower down the oesophagus is in front of the artery, and subsequently lies a little to its left side; hehind are the verte- bral column and the vena azygos minor. Its branches will be described presently. Vena Azygos This vein commences in the abdomen opposite Major. the first or second lumbar vertebra, by small branches from one of the lumbar veins of the right side, and gene- rally communicates .with the renal, or the vena cava itself. This, indeed, is the main point about the origin of the vena azygos, that it communicates directly or indirectly with the vena cava inferior. It enters the chest through the aortic opening of the diaphragm, and ascends on the right side of the aorta through the posterior mediastinum, in front of the bodies of the lower dorsal vertebrae, and over the right intercostal arteries. When the vein reaches the level of the third dorsal vertebra, it arches forwards over the right bronchus, and terminates in the superior vena cava, just before this vessel is covered by pericardium. In its course it