MUSCLES ON THE FRONT OF THE LEG. G48 front of tlie ankle and divides into four slips, which pass to the four outer toes. They diverge from each other, and are inserted into the toes thus :—On the base of the first phalanx, each tendon (except that of the little toe) is joined on its outer side by the cor- responding tendon of the extensor brevis, and a little further on by a fibrous expansion from the interosseous and lumbrical muscles. The united tendons then expand, cover the dorsal surface of the first phalanx, and at the articulation between this and the second phalanx, split into three fasciculi; the middle one is inserted into the base of the second phalanx, the two lateral ones, running on and reuniting, are inserted into the base of the third phalanx.. Its nerve comes from the anterior tibial. Immediately below the ankle the anterior annular ligament forms a pulley through which the tendon of this muscle plays. It is like a sling, of which the two ends are attached to the os calcis, while the loop serves to confine the tendon. The play of the ten- don is facilitated by a- synovial membrane, which is prolonged for a short distance along each of its four divisions. Besides its chief action, this muscle extends the ankle-joint.' Peuoneus This is a portion of the preceding. Its fibres Tektius. arise from the lower fourth of the anterior surface of the shaft of the fibula, the interosseous membrane, and the intermuscular septum between it and the peroneus brevis, and ter- minate on their tendon like barbs on a quill. The tendon passes- through the same synovial pulley with the long extensor of the toes, and, expanding considerably, is inserted into the tarsal end of the metatarsal bone of the little toe. It is not always present. It is supplied by a branch of the anterior tibial nerve. This muscle extends the foot and draws the outer border of the foot upwards. The peroneus tertius and the tibialis anticus are important muscles in progression. They raise the toes and foot from the ground. Those who have lost the use of these muscles are obUged to drag the foot along the ground, or to swing the entire hmh outwards in walking. » There is often a large bursa between the tendon of the extensor longus digi- torum and the outer end of the astragalus. This bursa sometimes communicates with the oint of the head of the astragalus.