DEEP MUSCLES OF THE HACK OF THE LEG. 680 toe. It is essential to tlie propulsion of the body in walking. It is supplied by tlie posterior tibial nerve. Tibialis This is SO concealed between the two preceding Posticus. muscles that it cannot be properly examined mth- out reflecting them. It arises by two processes from the inter- osseous membrane, between which the anterior tibial artery passes forwards, from the opposite surfaces of the tibia and fibula for about their middle three-fifths, and from the aponeurosis covering it. In the lower part of the leg it passes between the tibia and the flexor longus digitorum. Its muscular fibres terminate on a tendon which comes into view a short distance above the inner ankle, and, run- ning through the same groove with the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum, enters the sole, and is inserted into the scaphoid and internal cuneiform bones, and by fibrous prolongations into most of the tarsal and metatarsal bones. Its action is to bend and turn the foot inwards. It is supplied by the posterior tibial nerve. The precise situation of the tendon of the tibialis posticus is interesting, surgically, because the tendon has to be di-sdded for the relief of talipes varus. It lies close to, and parallel with, the inner edge of the tibia, so that this is the guide to it. It is necessary to relax the tendon, while the knife is introduced between the tendon and the bone. Its synovial sheath commences about 1\ inch above the end of the internal malleolus, and is consequently opened iu the operation. Attention should now be directed to the internal or posterior annular ligament, which binds down the tendons behind the inner ankle. It is attached to the internal malleolus and the inner border of the OS calcis. It is continuous, above, with the deej) fascia of the leg, below with the plantar fascia and the abductor hallucis. Be- neath it are a series of compartments through which pass the tendons of the deep-seated muscles of the leg and the vessels into the sole of the foot. The relative positions of the structures passing under this ligament, proceeding from witliin outwards, are—the tendons of the tibialis posticus, and the flexor longus digitorum; the posterior tibial artery accompanied by its vente comites; the posterior tibial nerve; and, lastly, the tendon of the flexor longus