EXTERNAL ABDOMINAL RING. 427 ahdommal rimj. In the male it is a triangialar opening about an inch long, with its base at the os pubis, and will admit the passage of a finger; it transmits the spermatic cord. In the female it is smaller, and transmits the round ligament of the uterus. Its direc- tion is downwards and inwards, and it is bounded below by the crest of the OS pubis, above by some arched fibres which give strength to the apex of the opening, and on each side by the free margins of the aponeurosis which are termed its columns or pillars. The inner or upper pillar (No. 4 in the diagram) is thin, and is attached to the front of the os pubis, decussating with its fellow of the opposite side in front of the symphysis. The outer or loioer pillar is thicker and stronger, and has three attachments : one, into the spine of the OS pubis—Poupart's ligament (No. 3); another, for three-quarters of an inch along the linea ilio-pectinea—Gimhernat's ligament (No. 2); the third—or triangular ligament—consists of a few fibres which pass obliquely upwards and inwards beneath the spermatic cord and the inner pillar as far as the linea alba, where they expand into a triangular fascia in front of the conjoined tendon, and are continuous with the aponeurosis of the opposite side. At the lower part of the aponeurosis of the external oblique, there are some arched fibres called inter columnar fibres, which are strongest above the external ring. Their use is to strengthen the opening and prevent the ring from enlarging. Attached to the pillars of the external ring is a thin fascia, the intercohimnar or external spermatic fascia, which is prolonged over the spermatic cord and testis, and thus forms one of the coverings of that organ. The spermatic cord in its passage through the ring rests upon the external pillar. ^ The external oblique should now be detached Dissection. p ^ ■ from the ribs and the crest of the ilium, and turned forwards as far as this can be done without injuring its aponeurosis or the crural arch. In detaching this muscle from the ribs, care should be taken not to reflect with it the upper fibres of the rectus, and as the dissection is carried forwards, the student should avoid injuring the thin aponeurosis of the internal oblique muscle. The second muscular stratum will thus be exposed and