76 ANTERIOR TRIANGLE. angle of the scapula. Both these arteries are very irregular in respect to their origin, tlw last particularly being often given off from the subclavian in the third part of its course. Search for the outer border of the scalenus anticus, which descends from the transverse processes of the cervical vertebras to the first rib : run- ning down longitudinally upon it may be seen the phrenic nerve. The subclavian vein lies upon the first rib in front of the insertion of the anterior scalene muscle behind the clavicle, so that it is not usually seen in this triangle. The subclavian artery rises up into the neck as high as an inch above the clavicle, and sometimes on the right side as high as an inch and a half. It appears higher than the vein, emerging beneath the outer border of the scalenus anticus, and care must be taken to preserve the small branch from the brachial plexus, which crosses the artery and proceeds to the subclavius muscle. The large nerves constituting the brachial plexus come out between the scalenus anticus and medius, higher than the subclavian artery, and on a plane posterior to that vessel. These different objects will be described in detail hereafter. Dissection of The anterior triangle must now be dissected. THE Anterior In doing so, notice, before the deep cervical fascia Triangle. |g removed, the arching forwards of the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle, which is connected to the lower jaw by the fascia, so that the common carotid artery is concealed from view before the parts are disturbed. The anterior triangle is bounded behind by the anterior border of the sterno- mastoid, in front by the middle line of the neck, and above by the lower border of the inferior maxUla. Covering the triangle are the superficial and deep cervical fascise, and the platysma; passing across it are the su^jerficial cervical n., the infra-maxillary branch of the facial nerve ; and descending in front is the anterior jugular vein. This space is subdi-\'ided by the anterior belly of the omo- hyoid into a superior and an inferior carotid triangle, and above them is a third triangle mapped out by the converging bellies of the digastric muscle and the lower jaw, and is called the suh- maxillairy or digastric triangle (fig. 25, p. 73). The inferior carotid triangle is bounded above and below by the omo-hyoid and sterno-mastoid muscles, and in front by the