BRANCHES OF THE INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY. 136 g. The pteryc/oid branches supply the internal and exteriml pterygoid muscles. h. The biicccd branch runs forward with the buccal nerve to the buccinator, where it anastomoses Avith the facial artery. Beanches in i. The superior dental branch runs along the tube- THE Third P,ujt. rosity of the superior maxillary bone, and sends small arteries through the foramina in the bone to the pulps of the molar and bicuspid teeth. It also supplies the gums, and the mucous membrane of the antrum. j. The infra-orbital branch ascends through the spheno-maxillary fissure, then runs forward along the infra-orbital canal Avith the superior maxillary nei-ve, and emerges upon the face at the infra-orbital foramen, beneath the levator labii superioris. In the infra-orbital canal the artery sends branches, anterior dental, downwards through little canals in the bone to the incisor and canine teeth, and upAvards into the orbit to the lachrymal gland, the inferior oblique, and inferior rectus. After issuing from the foramen it sends upAvards branches to the lachrymal sac, and descending branches to the upper lip. The former anastomose with the nasal l)ranches of the ophthalmic and facial arteries ; the latter Avith the superior coronary, transverse facial, and buccal arteries. k. The descending jMlatine, a branch of considerable size, runs doAvn the posterior palatine canal Avith the palatine nerve (a branch from Meckel's ganglion), and then along the roof of tlie hard palate, toAvards the anterior palatine canal, in Avhich, much diminished in size, it inos- culates on the septum nasi Avith a branch of the spheno-palatine artery. It supplies the gums, the glands, and mucous membrane of this part,, and furnishes branches to the soft jjalate. I. The Vidian, an insignificant branch, runs backwards through the Vidian canal Avith the Vidian nerve, and is distributed to the Eustachian tube, the pharynx, and the tympanum. m. The pterygo-palatine is a small but constant branch which nins backwai'ds through the pterygo-palatine canal Avith the pharyngeal nerve from Meckel's ganglion, and ramifies upon the upper part of the pharynx and the Eustachian tube. n. The nasal or spJteno-^mlatine branch enters the nose through the spheno-palatine foramen in company Avith the nasal nerA^e from Meckel's (spheno-palatine) ganglion, and ramifies upon the spongy bones, the ethmoidal cells, and the antrum. One lai-ge branch, the artery of the SQptum, runs along the septum nasi towards the anterior palatine canal, where it joins the descending palatine artery.