4 LIGATURE OF THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY, 117 and sympathetic nerves, and, above all, its close contiguity witli the pleura, form a combination of circumstances so formidable that one cannot be surprised the operation has never been performed with a favourable result. On the left side the operation is more difficult to perform than on the right, owing to the difference in the anatomical relation of the two sides. In the second part of its course, between the scalene muscles, the artery is more accessible, although it is rarely ligatured in this situation. It would be necessary to divide the clavicular origin of the sterno-mastoid, the cervical fascia, and the scalenus anticus, to reach the vessel; the phrenic nerve and the subclavian vein would be the chief objects exposed to injury. This operation was per- formed first and with success by Dupuytren in the year 1819. More recently it has been performed by Dr.. Warren, of Boston. The patient recovered, though the pleura was wounded.' But in the last part of its course, that is, on the outer side of the scalenus, tlie artery may be tied with comparative facility. The incision should be made from three to four inches in length, parallel with the upper border of the clavicle. We divide the platysma, some of the supra-clavicular nerves, and the cervical fascia. The external jugular vein and its tributaries must be drawn to the outer side, or divided and tied at both ends. The connective tissue should now be carefully cut through, and the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid sought for, as it runs just above the clavicle. After clearing away some fat and cellular tissue, the outer border of the scalenus anticus must be felt for, behind which the artery will be found lying upon the first rib. The operator now passes his finger downwards along the outer border of this muscle, as far as its insertion into the tubercle of the first rib, which can always be distinctly felt. The artery having been exposed by carefully dividing a layer of fascia immediately covering the vessel, the ligature is to be passed round the artery from above downwards, care being taken not to include in the ligature one of the cords of the brachial plexus. Mr. Ramsden, of St. Bartholomew's Hospital, was the first who tied the subclavian in the third part of its course, in the year ' Med. Ghirurq. Trans, vol. xxix. p. 25,