256 GLANDS BENEATH THE TONGUE. thickly as to give it sometimes the appearance of a brush when seen under the microscope. The various kinds of fur on the tongue consist of thick and sodden epithelium. Eespecting the use of the papillas, it is probable that they enable the tongue to detect impressions with greater delicacy. From the density and arrangement of their epithelial coat, the filiform papillas give the surface of the tongue a roughness, which is useful in its action upon the food. An apparatus of this kind, proportionately stronger and more developed, makes the tongue of ruminant animals an instrument by which they lay hold of their food. In the feline tribe—e.g. the lion and tiger—these papillas are so sharp and strong that they act like rasps, and enable the animal to lick the periosteum from the bones by a single stroke of his tongue. In some mammalia, they act like combs for cleaning the skin and the hair. Numerous small racemose and acino-tubular glands, Ungual glands, are found in the sub- mucous tissue at the root of the tongue. They are similar in structure and secretion to the tonsillar and palatine glands, so that there is a complete ring of glands round the isthmus faucium. Small round orifices upon their surface indicate the termination of their ducts. Other mucous glands, with ducts from one quarter to half an inch long, are situated in the muscular substance of the tongue. Lymphoid -A- considerable amount of lym'plioid tissue is Tissue. situated at the back of the tongue, which in some parts is collected into definite masses called follicles. Small de- pressions also occur in this situation, whose walls are studded with lymphoid tissue, and into which some of the mucous glands open. ^ On the under surface of the apex of the tongue NEATH THE " IS placcd, ou either side, a group of glands pre- Apex of the sumed to be salivary. Considering each group as ToNQUE. Qjjg gland, observe that it is oblong, with the long diameter from seven to ten lines, parallel with the axis of the tongue. It lies near the mesial line, a little below the ranine artery, on the outer side of the branches of the gustatory nerve, under'some of the fibres of the stylo-glossus. Four or five ducts