ORIGINS OK THE CRANIAL NERVHS. 752 from the trunsverse stria). A few of tlie filaments of the auditory nerve come from anotlier nucleus situated in front of the medullary strias and external to the preceding nucleus, and which gets larger as it passes upwards. These two bundles unite, and the nerve passes outwards and enters the meatus auditorius interims in com- pany with the portio dura. It divides at the bottom of the meatus into cochlear and vestibular branches, which are distributed to the internal ear. Ninth Pair on "^^^ glosm-pJmrijnfjeal nerve arises apparently Glosso-pharyn- by several filaments from the restiform bodj' below GEAL Nerves. auditory nerve. Its deep origin is from a nucleus in the inferior fovea of the fourth ventricle, continuous behind with the vagal nucleus, and covered in fi'ont by the inner auditory nucleus. The glosso-pharyngeal nerve passes through the middle compartment of the foramen jugulare, and is distri- buted to the mucous membrane of the pharynx and back of the tongue (p. 265). Tenth Pair or The •pneuniofjastric nerve arises from a grey Pneumogastric nucleus (divided into two by a bundle of white fibres), which is placed between the glosso-pharyn- geal nucleus in front and the spinal-accessory nucleus behind, in the inferior fovea. The fibres, about twelve in number, pass through the medulla, and emerge from the restiform body, below the glosso-pharyngeal, and join to form a single nerve. This passes through the foramen jugulare, separated from the preceding by a septum of dura mater, and is distributed to the pharynx, larynx, the heart and lungs, the oesophagus and stomach. Eleventh Pair '^^^ ffpinal accessory nerve is composed of two OR Spin,u. Acces- parts : an upper or accessory portion, which arises soRY Nerves. f^Qj^^ ^^i^g medulla below the vagus; and a lower or spinal portion, which arises from the spinal cord. The accessory fibres may be traced to the grey nucleus, which is connected in front with the vagal nucleus, and lies close to the median sulcus of the fourth ventricle, extending to the apex of the calamus scrip- torius and along the side of the central canal; the spinal portion may be traced below to the tractus intermedio-lateralis and anterior cornu, and above to the posterior cornu, arising by slender fila-