BRANCHES OF THE INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. 542 deep epigastric, and in one out of seventy-two cases it lias its origin by a branch from tlae obturator joining a branch from the epigastric. It may arise from the external iliac near the crural arch, or by a short trunk in common with the epigastric' Under these circumstances, in order to reach the obturator foramen, it generally descends outlie outer side of the femoral ring. Instances, however, occasionally occur, where it makes a sweep round the inner side of the ring; so that three-fourths of the ring, or, what comes to the same thing, of the neck of a femoral hernia, would in such a case be surrounded by a large artery.- e. The sciatic artery is the larger of the two branches into which the anterior trunk divides. It proceeds over the pyriformis and the sacral plexus, to the lower border of the great sciatic notch, through which it passes out of the pelvis between the pyriformis and coccygeus to the buttock, where it runs with the great sciatic nerve between the great trochanter and the ischial tuberosity. It gives off small muscular branches in the pelvis to the pyriformis, coccygeus, and levator ani; vesical branches to the bladder, prostate, and vesiculee seminales; and hcemorrhoidal brandies to the rectum. /. The internal piidic artery supplies the perineum, scrotum and penis. In the pelvis it usually lies above the sciatic, and rests upon the pyriformis and sacral plexus, having the rectum to its inner side. It passes out of the pelvis through the great sciatic foramen, below the pyriformis and above the coccygeus, crosses over the spine of the ischium, and re-enters the pehns through the lesser foramen. It then ascends on the inner side of the obturator internus towards the pubic arch, where it gives branches to the several parts of the penis. In its passage on the inner side of the ' In most subjects a small branch of the obturator ascends behind the ramus of the OS pubis to inosculate with the epigastric. The variety in which the obturator arises in common with the epigastric is but an unusual development of this branch. The branch derives additional interest from the fact, that after ligature of the external iliac it becomes greatly enlarged, and carries blood directly into tlie epigastric. See a case in Mad. Chir. Trans, vol. xx. 1836. = The Museum of St. Bartholomew's Hospital contains two examples of double femoral hernias in the male, wth the obturatoi- arising on each side from the epi- gastric. In three out of the four ruptures the obturator runs on the inner side o the mouth of the sac.