69 DEEP CERVICAL FASCIA. over the iimer end of the clavicle and the upper part of the sternum ; another, the middle or clavicular, passes over the middle of the clavicle, and is distributed to the skin over the pectoral muscle, the mammary gland, and the nipple ; the third, named external or acromial, crosses over the trapezius and acromion to supply the skin of the shoulder. Reviewing these cutaneous branches of the cervical plexus, we find that they have a very wide distribution, for they supply the skin covering the following parts—viz., the ear, the back of the scalp, the side of the cheek, the parotid gland, the front and side of the neck, the upper and front part of the chest and shoulder. Cervical Look for this branch beneath the fascia near Branch of the the angle of the jaw (p. 66). It leaves the Faclu, Nerve. parotid gland, and, piercing the deep cervical fascia, divides into filaments which curve forwards below the jaw; some of these, forming arches, join the superficial cervical branch of the cervical plexus ; others supply the platysma and skin. Deep Cervicai, ISTow turn your attention to the membranous Fascia. investment called the deejJ cervical fascia, which encloses the several structures of the neck. In some subjects the fascia is very thin ; in others, with strong muscles, it is proportion- ally dense and resisting. It is always stronger in particular situa- tions, for the more effective protection of the parts beneath; for instance, in front of the trachea, in the fossa above the clavicle, and below the angle of the jaw. It not only covers the soft parts of the neck collectively, but, by its inflections, forms separate sheaths for the muscles, vessels, and glands. It isolates them, and keeps them in their proper relative position. A lengthened de- scription of its numerous layers would be not only extremely tedious, but unintelligible, without considerable knowledge of the anatomy of the neck. "We propose, therefore, to give only a gene- ral outline of the fascia, and of its principal layers, commencing from behind. Tracing it from behind, we find that the cervical fascia (some- times called deep cervical or muscular fascia of the neck) is attached to the ligamentum nuchas and to the spinous and transverse pro- cesses of the cervical vertebras. From these attachments it passes forwards over the posterior triangle of the reck to the posterior