71 STERNO-CLEID 0-MASTOIDEUS. suppose the pus to be formed at the lower part of the neck. If it be seated under the superficial layer (which is attached to the clavicle), it may burrow beneath the clavicle into the axilla. But if it be seated beneath the deep layer (which is attached to the first rib), then it becomes more serious, since the pus may travel through the loose tissue by the side of the pharynx, and make its way into the chest, where it may burrow down the anterior or the posterior mediastinum, and burst into the trachea or the oesophagus. Besides forming sheaths for the several structures of the neck, there are other purposes to which the cervical fascia is subservient. The firm attachment of its layers to the sternum, the first rib, and the clavicle, forms a fibrous barrier at the upper opening of the chest, which supports the soft parts, and prevents their yielding to the pressure of the atmosphere during inspiration. Dr. Allan Burns^ first pointed out this important function of the cervical fascia, and has recorded a case exemplifying the results of its destruction by disease. Moreover, the great veins at the root of the neck, namely, the internal jugular, subclavian, and innominate, are so closely united by the cervical fascia to the adjacent bones and muscles, that when divided they gape. They are, as the French express it, ' canalisees,' and are therefore better able to resist the pressure of the atmosphere, which tends to render them flaccid and impervious during insjDira- tion. But this anatomical disposition of the great veins makes them more liable to the entrance of air when wounded. Instances of death have been recorded, resulting from the sudden entrance of air into the veins during operations about the neck, or even the axilla. Stebno-cleido- The sterno-cleido-mastoideus is the large muscle jiASToiDBus. which passes obliquely across the neck. ■ It arises by a rounded tendon from the upper part of the sternum, and by fleshy fibres from the sternal third of the clavicle. It is inserted by a thick tendon.into the external surface of the mastoid process, and by a thin aponeurosis into about the outer half of the superior curved ridge of the occipital bone. The sternal origin of the muscle is at first separated from the ' Surgical Ariatomy of the Head and Neck.