9G SUPERIOR THYROID ARTERY. ascends perpendicularly by the f^ide of the ijliarynx to the base of the skull. The external carotid gives off the following branches— 1. The superior thyroid. 5. The posterior auricular. 2. The lingual. 6. The internal maxillary. 3. The facial. 7. The temporal. 4. The occipital. 8. The ascending pharyngeal. SupEEioB The superior thyroid, the first branch of the Thyeoid Abtery. external carotid, arises just below the great cornu of the OS hyoides. It lies in the superior carotid triangle, and, curving downwards and inwards, runs beneath the omo-hyoid, sterno-liyoid, and sterno-thyroid muscles to the upper and front surface of the thyroid body, in which it terminates. Its branches are the four following:— 1. The hyoid, a small muscular branch, runs horizontally inwards below the greater cornu of tlie os hyoides, and anastomoses with its fellow. 2. The superior laryngeal branch, accompanied by the superior laryngeal nerve, runs inwards beneath the tliyro-liyoid muscle, pierces the thyro-hyoid membrane (sometimes the thyroid cartilage), supplies the muscles and the mucous membrane of the larynx, and anastomoses with its fellow of the opposite side. 3. The middle sterno-mastoid, a small branch, variable as to origin, descends over the sheath of the common carotid artery, and enters the under aspect of the stei-no-mastoid muscle. 4. The crico-thyroid, an artery of great intei'est in reference to the operation of laryngotomy, crosses the crico-thyroid membrane, and com- municates with a corresponding branch on the opposite side (fig. 26, p. 78). One or two small branches pass through the membrane to the interior of the larynx. It is important to know that the crico-thyroid artery often varies in direction and size. In most cases it is small, and runs across the centre of the membrane ; we should therefore be least likely to wound it in laryngotomy, by dividing the membrane close to the cricoid cartilage. But it is by no means infrequent to find this artery of considerable size, taking an oblique or even a perpendicular direction in front of the membi'ane, and finally distributed to one of the lobes of the thyroid body. We have seen several instances in which the membrane was crossed by the main trunk of the superior thyroid.