744 J5ASE 01'' THE BRAIN. of tlie two anterior perforated spots. If the lamina be torn, which is very easily done, an opening is made into the anterior part of the floor of the third ventricle. The olfadorij lohe lies in its own sulcus on the orbital surface, nearer its mesial aspect. The ojjtic commissure is placed immediately behind the lamina cinerea. It is formed by the junction in the middle line of the two optic tracts. From it the two optic nerves can be traced, running forwards and outwards. The loms perfoi-atxis anticus is a shallow triangular depression, placed to the inner side of the commencement of the fissure of Sylvius. It is bounded in front by the two diverging white roots of the olfactory lobe, and behind by the optic tract. It is com- posed partly of grey substance, and is continuous with the laniina cinerea on the inner side. Crossing it is seen a broad white band, the i>eclunde of the corpus callosnm. This space is pierced by a number of small apertures for the transmission of small vessels to the corpus striatum; hence its name. The tiiher cinereum (fig. 170, p. 718) is a prominence of grey matter immediately behind the optic commissure, and in front of the corpora albicantia. It forms part of the floor of the third ventricle, and from it a conical tube of reddish colour, the infinuli- hidum, descends to the posterior lobe of the pituitary body. There is a large collection of grey matter on the outer side of the tuber cinereum, and internal to the optic tract, called the hasal optio (janglion, from which fibres pass to the corresponding optic tract. The pltnitarii hoch/ occupies the sella turcica, is of a reddish- brown colour, and consists of two lobes. Of its two lobes the anterior, and larger, is concave posteriorly to receive the pos- terior lobe, and weighs from five to ten grains. The two lobes consist of diflferent structure, and differ in their development; the posterior is developed downwards from the third ventricle, and is hollow ; subsequently there is a large increase of connective-tissue structure and blood-vessels in it, so that the cavity is usually obliterated. The anterior is darker, and is surrounded by a con- nective-tissue capsule; on section it resembles in structure the thyroid gland, being composed of reticular tissue, with numerous