STRUCTURE OF THE LARGE INTESTINE. ■604 The liimpliatics consist of two sets—tliose of the muscular, and those of the mucous coats; the latter receive those from the villij at the base of which they form a minute plexus, and, after piercing the muscular coat, join with the former, which are chiefly found between the longitudinal and the circular layers of muscular fibres. The nerves are derived from the superior mesenteric plexus, and accompany the superior mesenteric artery and its branches, between the layers of the mesentery; after reaching the intestinal walls the nerve-filaments separate from the arteries. They then pierce the external longitudinal muscular fibres, and form a very minute gangliated plexus—Auerhach's iilexus or plexus mesentericus—which distributes filaments to the muscular layer of the entire intestinal canal. From this plexus numerous branches perforate the internal •circular muscular layer, and unite to form a largely gangliated plexus—Meissners plexus—in the submucous tissue. The inter- muscular plemis probably supplies the muscular coat and regulates the peristaltic action of the bowel; the subm ucous plexus determines the calibre of the blood-vessels. Labge The principal external characters of the large Intestine. intestine are that it is pouched or sacculated, and that it laas attached to it little pendulous portions of fat covered by peritoneum, called appendices epiploicce. The pouches (sacculi) are produced by a shortening of the longitudinal muscular fibres, and by their being collected into three bands, about half an inch wide, nearly equidistant from each other. One of these bands corre- :sponds with the attached part of the circumference of the bowel; another with the front part; a third with its concavity. If at any given part the three bands be divided, the pouches immediately disappear. In a colon moderately distended and dried, we observe that the mucous membrane forms numerous ridges or incomplete septa (see ^g. 142) : they correspond to the grooves on the external surface •of the bowel, and disappear, like the sacculi, when the longitudinal bands are divided. The rectum differs from the rest of the large intestine in that its longitudinal muscular fibres are not collected into bands, but •distributed equally over its whole circumference. Moreover, botn the longitudinal and circular fibres are of considerable strength, like