43 PAROTID GLAND. That portion of tlie gland wliicli lies on the masseter muscle is called glandida socia imrotidis. It varies in size in different subjects ; and is situated chiefly above the parotid duct, into which it pours its secretion by one or two smaller ducts. The duet of the parotid gland (ductus Stenonis about two inches and a half long, is very thick and strong. In this respect it differs from the duct of the submaxillary gland, which is less exposed to injury. It runs transversely forwards over the mas- seter, about an inch below the zygoma, through the fat of the cheek, then perforates the buccinator obliquely, and opens into the mouth opposite the second molar tooth of the ujoper jaw. Near its termination it is crossed by the zygomaticus major and the facial vein. After perforating the buccinator, the duct passes for a short distance between the muscle and the mucous membrane. Its orifice is small and contracted compared with the diameter of the rest of the duct, which will admit a crow-quill; it is not easily found in the mouth, being concealed by a fold of mucous membrane. The direction of the parotid duct corresponds with a line drawn from the middle of the lobiile of the ear to a point midway between the nose and the mouth. The blood supply of the parotid is derived from the external carotid and its branches, which are accompanied by their respective veins. Its nerves are supplied from the sympathetic plexus around the external carotid, the auriculo-temporal, the great auricular and the facial nerves. The hjmpliatid glands about the parotid deserve notice, since they are liable to become enlarged, and simulate disease of the parotid itself. A lymphatic gland lies close to the root of the zygoma, in front of the cartilage of the ear; this gland is some- times affected in disease of the external tunics of the eye; e.g. in purulent ophthalmia: also in affections of the scalp. this conclusion be correct, even in the normal condition of the gland, what must it be when the gland is enlarged by disease ? John Bell, however, relates a case in which he was induced to attempt the extirpation of a diseased parotid {Principles of Surgery, vol. iii. p. 262). Other surgeons, too, of more modern date, have attempted the same thing. It is not unlikely that they have mistaken a tumour in the substance of the parotid for disease of the jDarotid itself. ' Nic. Steno, Da GlanduUs Oris, etc. Bat. 1G61.