724 MEDULLA OBLONGATA. below, but increasing gradually in breadth as tbey ascend towards the pons. At this part they become constricted, and may be traced through the pons into the crura cerebri'. The fibres of which they are in the main composed are derived from the anterior columns of the spinal cord, and consist therefore of motor fibres. On separating the pyramids about an inch below the pons, bundles of nerves are seen decussating across the anterior fissure (fig. 171). This de- cussation, which consists of three or four bundles on each side, involves only the inner fibres of the pyramid; the outer fibres ascend through the pons without crossing. The decussating fibres are the continuations upwards of the deep fibres of the lateral pyramidal tract and the lateral columns of the cord, which here come forwards to the surface, and push aside the anterior pyramids. Thus it will be seen that the thickness of the anterior pyramids is mainly due to these decussating bundles; that the fibres on the outer side of the pyramids are those continued upwards from the anterior column of the cord ; and that the inner part is made up of the fibres of the lateral tract of the opposite side. This decussation explains the phenomenon of cross paralysis, i.e. when one side of the brain is injured, the loss of motion is manifested on the opposite side of the body.' The olivary bodies are the two oval eminences situated on the outer side of the upper part of the anterior pyramids, from which they are separated by a shallow depression. They do not ascend quite as high as the pons, for there is a deep groove between them. They consist externally of white matter; and at their lower part, some white fibres maybe observed arching round from the anterior median fissure, constituting the arciform fibres of Rolando. In the groove between the anterior pyramids and these bodies are seen the fasciculi of the hypoglossal nerve emerging from the medulla, and in the groove behind the olive emerge the roots of the glosso- pharyngeal, the pneumogastric, and spinal-accessory nerves. The lateral tracts, situated on the outer side of the anterior pyramids, are the continuations upwards of the lateral columns of ' The phenomenon of cross paralysis of sensation is explained by the fact, made out by Brown-S6quard, that the paths of sensory impressions cross each other in the grey matter of the cord.