109 CERVICAL PLEXUS OF NERVES, tlie seventh or facial nerve after its exit from the stylo-mastoicl forarueu. It runs behind the ear and divides into an auricular branch to the retrahens and the attollens aurem, and an occiintal branch to the posterior belly of the occipito-frontalis, which com- municates ■with the small occipital nerve. The nerve is connected with the great anricular nerve of the cervical plexus, and with the auricular branch of the pneumogastric nerve. 4SCEXDING This long and straight branch arises about half Pharyngeal an inch above the division of the common carotid. Aeteky. \i ascends between the internal carotid and the side of the pharynx to the base of the skull, lying upon the rectus capitis anticus major. It gives off numerous branches; among them are:— 1. Small external branches which pass outwards to supply the anterior recti muscles, the superior cervical ganglion, the pneumogastric and hypoglossal nerves, and the prevertebral lymphatic glands. They anastomose with the ascending cervical artery. 2. Pharyngeal branches, some of which pass to the tM'o lower pharyngeal constrictors and the stylo-pharyngeus : one, the largest of all, enters the pharynx above the superior constrictor, and terminates in the soft palate, the Eustachian tube, and the tonsils. 3. Meningeal branches.—One passes through the foramen lacerum posticum, with the internal jugular vein, and is distributed to the dura mater of the occipital fossa another through the foramen lacerum medium, and one through the anterior condylar foramen. The ■pliaryThCjeal vein receives some meningeal branches, also small veins from the soft palate, Eustachian tube, and uniting, form the pharyngeal plexus which opens into the internal jugular or common facial vein. The examination of the two remaining branches of the external carotid, the internal maxillary and temporal, must for the present be postponed. Meanwhile the student should make out the dee]) cervical plexus and its branches. Cervical This plexus is formed by the anterior branches Plkxus op of the four upper cervical nerves. It consists of a Nerves. series of loop-like communications, between these nerves, close to the transverse processes of the four upper cervical vertebras ; each nerve dividing into an ascending and a descending