534 THE BLADDER. The quantity of urine which the Madder will hold without much inconvenience varies. As a general rule, it may be stated at about a pint. Much depends upon the habits of the individual; but some persons have, naturally, a very small bladder, and are obliged to empty it more frequently. In young persons the lowest parb of the bladder is the neck, or that part which joins the prostate. But as age advances, the bottom of the bladder gradually deepens so as to form a pouch behind the prostate. In old subjects, particularly if the prostate be enlarged, this pouch becomes deep, micturition becomes tedious, and the bladder cannot completely empty its contents. It some- times happens that a stone- in the bladder is not felt; the reason of which may be that the stone, lodged in such a pouch below the level of the neck of the bladder, escapes the detection of the sound. Under these circumstances, if the patient be placed on an inclined plane with the pelvis higher than the shoulders, the stone falls out of the pouch, and is easily struck. The bladder is divided into a summit, a body, a base, and a neck. The summit is its highest part, and to it is attached a thin fibrous cord, the urachus, which passes up to the umbilicus, and is the obliterated remains of a canal connecting the foetal bladder with a sac external to the foetus, called the allantois. The hodj/ on its anterior aspect is not covered with peritoneum, and is in relation with the symphysis jDubis, the triangular liga- ment, and the obturator internus ; posteriorly, it is covered with peritoneum, and is in relation in the male with the rectum, and in the female with the uterus; laterally, it is only covered with peri- toneum behind, and is in relation with the obliterated hypogastric arteries, the vasa deferentia, and ureters. The base is the lowest part of the bladder resting upon the middle portion of the rectum, and is only slightly covered behind with peritoneum ; below, it is in contact with the vesiculte seminales and vasa deferentia, which latter pass forwards as far as the prostate; the reflection of the peritoneum posteriorly with the vasa defe- rentia converging towards the front, forms a triangular space through which the bladder is tapped in cases of retention of urine.