TEMPORAL REGION. 129 Near their origin tlie roots of the nerve are connected by fine filaments Avith the otic ganglion, and close to the condyle of the jaw the nerve sends round the external carotid artery two com- municatimj hrmches to the temporo-facial branch of the facial nerve. It here distributes 'jriarotid branches to the gland ; articular branches to the temporo-maxillary articulati»n, to the raeatus auditorius and the membrana tynipani. Above the zygoma it gives off two auri- cular filaments; the upper ramifies in the skin of the outer aspect of the ear, mainly on the tragus and upper half of the auricle; the lovj&r supplies the lobule and lower part of the pinna. Lastly, in the subcutaneous tissue of the temple, we find the temporal branches of the facial nerve, which supply the frontalis, the attrahens aurem, the orbicularis palpebrarum, tensor tarsi, and corrugator supercilii. Masseter This muscle arises from the lower edge of the Muscle. zygoma, and is inserted into the outer side of the ramus and coronoid process of the jaw. The masseter is composed of superficial and deep fibres which cross like the letter X. The ^superficial- fibres, constituting the principal part of the muscle, arise from the anterior two-thirds of the zygoma and the malar process of the superior maxilla, by tendinous fibres which occupy the front border of the muscle, and send aponeurotic partitions into its substance. These fibres pass downwards and backwards, this ■direction giving them greater advantage, and are inserted into the angle and part of the ramus of the jaw. The deep fibres, mainly muscular (which are concealed by the parotid gland), arise from the posterior third of the zygoma, incline forwards, and are in- serted into the upper half of the ramus and the coronoid process. Besides these, a few fibres, arising from the inner surface of the zygoma, are inserted into the coronoid process and the tendon of the temporal muscle. Its action is to raise the jaw and help to masticate the food. Its nerve comes from the inferior maxillary. The following objects lie superficial to the masseter: 1. Zygomatic! major and minor; 2. Orbicularis palpebrarum; 3. Glandula socia parotidis and .parotid duct; 4. Transversalis faciei artery; 5. Facial artery and vein; 6. Branches of the facial nerve. K