364 LUMBRICALES. In what way are the tendons supplied with blood ? Eaise and separate the tendons, and you will see that slender but very vas- cular folds of synovial membrane (vincula tendinum) run up from the phalanges and convey blood-vessels to the tendons. The tendon of the flexor loncjus pollieis lies on the radial side of the other tendons beneath the annular ligament. It passes between the two portions of the flexor brevis pollieis sud the two sesamoid bones of the thumb, enters its proper sheath, .and is inserted into the base of the last phalanx. Its synovial sheath is prolonged from the large bursa of the flexor tendons beneath the annular ligament, and accompanies the tendon down to the last joint of the thumb; consequently the sheath is injured in amputation of the last phalanx. BuESAL Sac of A large and loose synovial sac (bursa, of the THE Caepds. carpus) facilitates the pl-ay of the tendons beneath the anterior annular ligament. It lines th-e under surface of the ligament and the groove of the carpus, and is reflected in loose folds over the tendons. It is prolonged up the tendons for an inch and a half, or two inches, and forms a cul-de-sac above the liga- ment. Below the ligament the bursa extends into the palm, and sends ofi" prolongations for each of the flexor tendons, which accom- pany them down to the middle of the hand. You will understand that, when the bursa is inflamed and distended by fluid, there will be a bulging above the annular ligament, and another in the pahn, with perceptible fluctuation between them; the unyielding liga- ment causing a constriction in the centre.' These four slender muscles, one for each finger, are attached to the deep flexor tendons in the palm. All of them cH'ise by fleshy fibres from the radial side and palmar surface of the deep tendon of their corresponding finger: the third and fourth also arise from the adjacent sides of two ten- dons. Each terminates in a broad thin tendon which passes over ' In only one subject have we seen an instance in wMch this bursa communi- cated with the wrist-joint. It communicates always with the synovial sheath of the long flexor of the thumb, in most cases with that of the flexors of the little finger, and but rarely ^vith that of the index, middle, and ring fingers. For this reason, inflammation of the theoa of the thumb or Httle finger is more Uable to be attended with serious consequences than either of the others.