580 STRUCTURE OF THE LIVER. The portal vein enters the transverse fissure of tlie liver, ac- conipauied hy the entering hepatic artery and the emerging right and left hepatic ducts, which as before stated are surrounded in the liver by a common sheath called Glisson's capsule. In the liver, the portal vein ramifies between the lobules and gives off numerous branches, called interloJmlwr or peripheral veins, which pass between the lobules and communicate freely with each other. These receive the vaginal and capsular veins which convey th& blood from the corresponding branches of the hepatic artery. The- interlobular plexus of veins gives off a minute capillary network, which penetrates into the interior of the lobule, and converges to- wards the centre of the lobule to open directly into a single central vein called the intralobular vein. The capillaries which compose this network run in a nearly parallel direction from the circumference to the centre of the lobule, and communicate freely with each other by small transverse branches. The intervals between the branches of the capillary network is very small, varying from -j-gL-g-th to -j^-iyth of an inch, while the vessels themselves are comparatively large, being about Trgig-|,th of an inch in diameter. The intraloljular vein re- turns the blood from the centre of the lobule, and opens immediately into a suhlobular vein, larger or smaller as the case may be, upon which the lobule is sessile (fig. 138). The sublobular veins, increasing in size, empty themselves into the smaller liepatic veins ; these unite to- form the main hepatic trunks, usually three in number, one each from th& right and left lobes and the lobulus Spigelii. These hepatic veins open into the inferior vena cava, as this vessel passes to the posterior border of the liver. The liepatic artery, entering the transverse fissure of the liver, divides and subdivides with the portal vein and biliary ducts, and ramifies with them between the lobules. Tlie artery distribute.^ branches—vaginal branches—whilst within the portal canals which Fio. 138. LOKOITUMNAL SECTIONS OF THE LOBULES OF THE LIVER. INTBA- LOBULAB VEINS SEEN JOINING THE SUBLOBULAE.