208- CORONARY VEINS AND SINUS. The imteriw or right coronary artery arises from behind the anterior cusp of the aortic opening, and descends obliquely between the pulmonary artery and the appendix of the right auricle. It then turns to the right in the groove between the right ventricle and auricle to the back of the heart, where it divides into two branches ; one of which descends in the posterior inter-ventricular furrow towards the apex of the heart; the other, which appears to be the continuation of the main trunk, runs in the left auriculo-ventricular groove. Besides these branches, the right coronary gives off a large branch which runs along the free border of the right ventricle. Thus, the leading trunks of the coronary arteries run in the furrows of the heart, usually sui-rounded by fat. Their numerous branches supply the walls of the auricles and ventricles, and their terminations communicate with each other. CoitoNABv The vein which corresponds with the anterior "Veins and Sinus. coronaiy artery ascends in the anterior inter-ven- tricular sulcus, and then curves round the left side of the heart in the left auriculo-ventricular groove, where it takes the name of the (jreat cardiac vein. This vein soon dilates into a large trunk, the coronary mivs, which opens at the back of the right auricle below the Eustachian valve. Another vein, known as the 'posterior cardiac, ascends along the posterior inter-ventricular groove, to open by valved orifices into the coronary sinus; while others, the anterior cardiac veinfi, three or four in number, are seen running up on the anterior surface of the right ventricle to terminate directly in the right auricle. The venoi Thehesii transmit the blood directly from the muscular structure into the right auricle by small apertures, the foramina Thebesii. The coronary sinus is about an inch in length, and receives the great cardiac vein, the posterior cardiac vein, and the oblique vein of Marshall, placed on the posterior surface of the left auricle. Its orifice in the right auricle is guarded by a semilunar valve (valve of Thehesius) to prevent re- gurgitation of the blood. It is covered and more or less supported in its course by muscular fibres passing from one auricle to the other. The li/m2>hatics of the heart pass mainly into a trunk which