537 URETHRA BENEATH THE PUBIC ARCH. lio-ament: hehind, are the neck of the bladder and the vesiculas seminales with the ejaculatory ducts. The transverse diameter is about one inch and a half; the vertical is about half an inch less. But the gland varies in size at different periods of life. In the child it is imperfectly developed: it gradually grows towards puberty, and generally increases in size with advancing age. To ascertain the size and condition of the prostate during life, the bladder should be at least half full: the prostate is then pressed down towards the rectum, and readily within reach of the finger. , The urethra is a canal about eight inches in Anatojit op ° THE Ukethea leng-th, and leads from the bladder to the end of IN ITS PASSAGE the peuls. It is divided into three portions—the UNDER THE pvostctUcj the membranous, and the spongy. At present only the relations of the membranous party which comprises that part of the canal between the prostate and the bulb, can be examined. The urethra in this part is the narrowest part of the canal, and measures three-quarters of an inch on its upper surface, and one-half on its lower surface, in conse- quence of the encroachment of the bulb. In its passage under the piibic arch, it is surrounded by the compressor urethras, and below it are Cowper's glands. It traverses the two layers of the triangu- lar ligament, and is about an inch below the symphysis pubis, from which it is separated by the dorsal vessels and nerves of the penis, and by some connective and muscular tissue; it is nearly the same distance above the rectum; it is not, however, equidistant from this portion of the intestine at all points, because of the downward bend which the rectum makes towards the anus.' The membranous part of the urethra in children is very long, owing to the smallness of the prostate at that period of life; it is also composed of thin and delicate walls, and lies close to the rectum. In sounding a child, therefore, it is very necessary not to use violence, else the instrument is likely to pass through the coats of the urethra and make a false passage. ' If a clean vertical section were made, we should see that the two canals form the sides of a triangular space, of which the apex is towards the prostate. This is sometimes called the recto-urethral triangle. »