270 INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY THROUGH BASE OF SKULL. External to the stylo-mastoid foramen, the facial nerve com- municates with the pneumogastric, the glosso-pharyngeal, the great auricular, the auriculo-temporal nerves, and with the carotid plexus; and on the face, with the numerous branches of the three divisions of the fifth nerve. Its branches of distribution, close to the stylo-mastoid foramen, are the posterior auricular, digastric and stylo-hyoid branches; and on the face, branches to all the facial muscles and the platysma myoides. Course of the "^^^ cervical portion of the internal carotid has Intebnal Cabotid been already described (p. 144). Its subsequent THEouGH Base of course may be divided into the petrous, cavernous, and cerebral portions. In the petrous portion, the artery takes a very tortuous course : at first it ascends for a short distance ; it then curves forwards and inwards; and lastly, it again ascends to reach the side of the body of the sphenoid. It is situated in front of the tympanum, from which it is separated by a thin lamella of bone, which is frequently absorbed in advanced age. It gives ofi" a tijrtipanic branch to the tympanum and membrana tympani. In the cavernous portion, the artery again makes a series of curves : at first it ascends forwards on the side of the body of the sphenoid, and then curves upwards on the inner side of the anterior ■clinoid process. The artery in this part of its course lies in the inner wall of the cavernous sinus, having the sixth nerve below and to its outer side. From this portion are given ofi" arterice re- ceptaculi to supply the pituitary body, Gasserian ganglion, and neighbouring structures; the anterior meningeal to supply the dura mater; and the ophthalmic artery already described (p. 57). In the cerebral portion, it pierces the dura mater on the inner side of the anterior clinoid process, and is surrounded by a sheath of the arachnoid membrane. It gives off the anterior cerebral, the middle cerebral, the anterior choroid, and the posterior coinmuni- cating arteries. The internal carotid is accompanied in the carotid canal by the cranial branch of the superior cervical gangUon of the sympathetic, described p. 151. Its position on the inner wall of the cavernous sinus, and the nervous plexuses upon it, are described at p. 23.