DEEP MUSCLES OF THE FOREAllM. 351 b. The anterior interossebus nerve, also a branch of the median, runs with the anterior interosseous artery on the interosseous membrane, lying on its radial side, between the flexor longus pollicis and flexor profundus digitorum : it supplies both these muscles and the pronator quadratus. c. The palmar cutaneous branch is given off" from the median before it passes beneath the annular ligament. This branch passes over the ligament, and divides into numerous filaments to supply the skin of the palm and the ball of the thumb, communicating with the cutaneous palmar branches of the ulnar, the external cutaneous, and the radial nerves. Now reflect tlae superficial layer of muscles, to see those more deeply seated. Preserve the prin- cipal vessels and nerves. The deep-seated muscles are, on the ulnar side, the flexor digi- torum profundus ; and, on the radial side, the flexor longus pollicis; beneath both, near the ■wrist, lies a transverse muscle, the pronator quadratus. On the interosseous membrane, between the first two named muscles, run the anterior interosseous artery and nerve. Flesob Peo- This is the thickest muscle of the forearm. It FUNDUS DiGiTo- arisBS from the upper two-thirds of the anterior surface of the ulna, surrounding the insertion of the brachialis anticus above, from the same extent of its internal surface, from the aponeurosis attached to the posterior edge of the ulna, and from the ulnar two-thirds of the interosseous membrane. About the middle of the forearm the muscle is inserted into four flat tendons, of which only that which goes to the index finger is separate from the others above the wrist. These tendons lie upon the same plane, and pass beneath the annular ligament, under those of the superficial flexor, into the palm, where they diverge to pass to their respective fingers. On the first phalanx of the fingers, the tendons of the deep flexor perforate those of the super- ficial, and are inserted into the bases of the third or ungual pha- langes. It derives its nerves from the interosseous branch of the median and from the ulnar. Flexor Longus This muscle is situated on the front surface of Pollicis. the radius, outside the preceding. It arises from the front surface of the radius, between the tubercle and the oblique