255 PAPILLA OF THE TONGUE. Avith a fine plexus of nerve-filaments derived from the glosso- pharyngeal nerve. ^ The impilloi fanfjiformes, smaller and more numerous than the ciromnvallatce, are scattered chiefly over the sides and tip of the tongue, and sparingly over its upper surface. They vary in shape, some being cylindrical, others having rounded heads like mush- rooms : whence their name. Near the apex of the tongue they may be distinguished during life from the other papillte by their redder colour. In scarlatina, and some exanthematous fevers, these papUlte become elongated, and of a bright red colour; as the fever subsides, their points acquire a brownish tint, giving rise to what is called the strawberry tongue. The pajyillce filiformes (conicce) are the smallest and most numerous. They are so closely aggregated that they give the tongue a velvet-like appearance. Their points are directed back- wards, so that the tongue feels smooth if the finger be passed over it from apex to base, but rough if in the contrary direction. These papillae consist of small conical processes arranged for the most part in a series of lines running parallel to the two rows of the papilla circuravallatte. Each papilla is covered with a thick layer of epithelium, which is prolonged into a number of free hair-like processes. If the papillEe be injected, and examined under the microscope, it is found that they are not simple elevations, like those of the skin, but that from them arise secondary papillse. The papillae circumvallatae consist of an aggregation of smaller papillaa arranged parallel to each other; and the papillas fungiformes consist of cen- tral stems from which minute secondary j)apilla3 shoot off". This elaborate structure escapes observation because it is buried beneath the epithelium.^ Each secondary papilla receives a blood-vessel, which passes nearly to its apex, and returns in a loop-like manner. The papillee are covered with one or more layers of squamous epithelium. That which covers the filiform is superimposed so ' For further information about these bodies the student is referred to Engelmann in Strieker's Ha')idbook. He states that each taste-bud consists of from fifteen to thirty cells. '' See Bowman and Todd's Physiological Anatomy.