328 MUSCULAR FASCIA OF THE ARM. Relation of '^^^ principal branclies of the cutaneous nerves THE CuTANKons pass beneatli the veins: that is to say, as a rule, Nerves and Veins tJ^e internal cutaneous passes behind the median AT THE Elbow. basilic vein, and the external cutaneous behind the median cephalic: but it should be remembered that many- small filaments cross in front which are exposed to injury in venesection. Relation op Since the median basilic vein is larger than the Median Basilic median cephalic, and, on account of the sti'ong Vein to Bha- fascia beneath, more easily compressible, it is cHLiL Arteuy. usually chosen for venesection; its position, there- fore, in reference to the brachial artery, becomes important. The vein is only separated from the artery by the semilunar fascia, derived from the tendon of the biceps. This fascia is in some subjects remarkably thin. Sometimes the artery lies above the fascia, in contact with the vein. In choosing, therefore, this vein for venesection, tliere is a risk of wounding the artery ; hence the practical rule, to bleed either from the median cephalic, or from the median basilic above the situation where it crosses the brachial artery. Lymphatic Immediately above the internal condyle, in the Glands. neigliboui'liood of the basilic vein, we find one or two small Ijiviph.atiG glands. Others may be found higher up along the inner side of the arm. A gland is occasionally met with at the bend of the elbow ; but never below this joint. These little glands are the first Avhich are liable to become tender and enlarged after a poisoned wound of the hand. MuscDLAB The fascia which invests the muscles of the Fascia and its upper arm is a continuation of the fascia of the Connections. trunk and the axilla. This membrane varies in density: thus it is thin over the biceps, stronger on the inner side of the arm, to protect the brachial vessels and nerves, and strongest over the triceps. At the upper part of the arm it is connected with the coracoid process and the clavicle; it is strengthened at the axilla by an expansion from the tendons of the pectoralis major and latissimus dorsi; posteriorly, it is attached to the spine of the scapula. The fascia surrounds the brachial vessels with a