SUPERFICIAL FASCIA OF THE GROIN. 610 The well-defined ridge, extending from the os pubis to the middle of the femur, when the thigh is abducted, is caused by the adductor longus muscle. The prominence in front of the knee is produced by the patella, to which is attached above, the tendon of the quadriceps muscle, and below, the ligamentum patellee, both of which can be distinctly felt. On each side of the patella is a deep depression, which leads on the outer side to a rounded prominence, the external condyle ; and on the inner to the internal condyle, the latter being the larger. The synovial membrane which lines the knee-joint usually extends about two fingers' breadth above the patella, and is a little higher on the inner than on the outer side of the joint. An incision should be made along the groin, extending from the anterior superior spine of the ilium to the spine of the os pubis; another, from the middle of the first down the front of the thigh for about six inches. The skin only should be reflected, outwards and inwards, when the superficial fascia will be exposed. Superficial The superficial fascia varies in thickness, ac- Fascia. cording to the condition of the body. Like other superficial fasciae, it is divisible into two or more layers, be- tween which are situated the inguinal glands and the cutaneous vessels and nerves. The superficial layer is continuous with that of the abdomen, and becomes firmer below Poupart's ligament, to which, however, it is not connected; the deeper layer is best marked in the upper part of the thigh, especially where it stretches across the saphenous opening, to the margins of which it is closely attached; this portion is called the cribriform fascia, and is pro- truded forwards by a femoral hernia, forming one of its coverings; this layer is also attached to Poupart's ligament. The superficial layer of this fascia should now be reflected, by searching for one of the subcutaneous veins (the internal saphena will do) which run between the upper and the deeper layers of the fascia. The cutaneous vessels can thus be traced, and come from the common femoral artery; they are three in number, the sujier- ficial epigastric, the superficial external pucUc, and the superficial drcumflexa ilii arteries. The first ascends over Poupart's ligament to the abdomen (p. 612); the second crosses inwards towards the