811 STRUCTURE OF THE RETINA. rays of liglit wliich pass througli the retina, and thus prevent their being reflected. It serves the same purpose as the black paint with which the inside of optical instruments is darkened. Albinoes, in whom this layer has little or no pigment, are, consequently,' dazzled by daylight and see better in the dusk.' The siistentacular tissue (Miillerian fibres) is a tissue which runs through the greater thickness of the retina, beginning at the so-called membrana limitans interna, and ending at the membrana limitans externa; but in neither of these two situations does it form a continuous layer, so that it cannot be classed under the layers forming the retina. These fibres are probably of the nature of a delicate connective tissue, which serves to sustain the various layers and their constituent elements. Each fibre begins by a broad conical base, on the deeper aspect of the layer of nerve- fibres (the bases of these fibres being more or less in connection with each other) ; it then passes through the layers of nerve-fibres and ganglionic cells, and, consequently, the inner molecular layer, gradually diminishing in thickness; on reaching the inner nuclear layer it gives ofi" thin filamentous processes which support the structures of this stratum, presenting here a lateral bulge with a well-marked nucleus. After passing through the outer molecular layer it reaches the outer nuclear layer, and then breaks up into filaments which join with fibrils from other Miillerian fibres, thus enclosing and supporting the cells and their prolongations of this layer. These filamentous ofi^ets reach as far as the bases of the rods and cones, forming a bed on which they rest; this is described as the membrana limitans externa. The structure of the macula lutea and fovea centralis.—In the macula hitea, the nerve-fibres do not form a continuous layer; the ganglionic layer consists of cells six to eight deep; there are no rods ; the cones are longer and narrower than elsewhere ; and the outer nuclear layer has only cone-fibres. In the fovea centralis ' In many of the nocturnal carnivorous quadrupeds, the mner surface of the choroid at the bottom of the eye presents a brilliant colour and metallic lustre. It is called the tapetum. By reflecting the rays of light a second time through the retina, it probably enables the animal to see better in the dusk. It is the cause of the well-known glare of the eyes of cats and other animals ; and the great breadth of the lumifious appearance arises from the dilatation of the pupil.