THYKOID CARTILAGE. thyro-hyoicl ligaments extend between tlie extremities of the greater cornua of the os hyoides, and the ascending cornua of the thj^roid cartilage. They contain a small nodule of cartilage (cartilcujo triticea). Cartilages of The framework of the larynx is composed of THE Labtnx. nine cartilages—viz., the thyroid, the cricoid, the two arytenoid, the two cornicula laryngis, the two cuneiform cartilages, and the epiglottis. These are connected by joints and -elastic ligaments, so that they can be moved upon each other by their respective muscles; the object of this motion being to act upon two elastic ligaments, called the vocal cords, upon the vibra- tion of which phonation depends. Th-stboid Cab- This cartilage, so called because it shields the TiLAGE. mechanism behind it,^ consists of two lateral halves (alee), united at an acute angle in front, which forms the prominence termed the iiomum Addmi. This prominence presents a notch at its upper part, to allow it to play behind the os hyoides in deglutition. There is a bursa in front of it. Bach ala is some- what quadrilateral in form, and presents for examination two surfaces and four borders. The outer surface of each ala is marked by an oblique line passing downwards and forwards from the base •of the upper cornu, which gives attachment to the sterno-thyroid and thyro-hyoid muscles. The smooth surface behind the ridge gives attachment to the inferior constrictor. The m?ier surface is smooth, slightly concave, and is covered with mucous membrane. In the acute angle in front there are attached from above down- wards, the epiglottis, the false and true vocal cords, the thyro- ^rytenoidei and thyro-epiglottidei muscles. The inferior border is slightly arched in the middle, affording attachment to the crico- thyroid membrane, and on either side presents a convex promi- nence, which gives attachment to the crico-thyroid muscle and the ' crico-thyroid membrane. The superior border is nearly horizontal, and affords attachment to the thyro-hyoid membrane. The posterior border is thick, rounded and nearly vertical, and gives insertion to the stylo-pharyngeus and palato-pharyngeus muscles. This border terminates, above and below, in round projections called the upper ' @vpe6s, a shield.