BEACHIALIS ANTICUS. 331 biceps is supplied witli blood by a brancli from the brachial, which runs into the middle of its' inner side, and divides into ascending and descending branches. Its nerve comes from the musculo- cutaneous. CoRAco- This thin muscle is situated at the upper part BEACHIALIS. of the arm, and runs parallel to the inner border of the short head of the biceps. It arises by fleshy fibres from the point of the coracoid process, in common with the short head of the biceps, and from a fibrous septum which lies between them. The muscle descends backwards and outwards, and terminates on a flat tendon, which is inserted into the inner side of the middle of the humerus, between the brachialis anticus and the inner head of the triceps. Its action is to draw the humerus forwards and in- wards—e.g. in bringing the gun up to the shoulder. It is supplied by a branch from the musculo-cutaneous nerve which pierces it. Concerning the coraco-brachialis, remember : 1. That the mus- culo-cutaneous nerve runs through it; 2. That its inner fleshy border is the guide to the axillary artery in the last part of its course; 3. That the brachial artery lies upon, its flat tendon of in- sertion, and can here be efiectually compressed by the finger or the tourniquet. The coraco-brachialis and biceps are covered at their upper part by the deltoid and pectoralis major. The head of the humerus roUs beneath the coraco-brachialis and short origin of the biceps ; and a large bursa is interposed between these muscles and the tendon of the subscapularis, which covers the head of the bone. Brachialis This broad muscle covers the lower half of the Anticds. • humerus, and is partially concealed by the biceps. Between the two muscles is the musculo-cutaneous nerve, which supplies them both. It arises from the humerus by a fleshy digitation on either side of the tendon of the deltoid ; from the lower half of the front and inner surfaces of the bone, and from the intermuscular septa. The muscle, becoming thicker and broader, covers the front of the cap- !■ sule of the elbow-joint, to which it is more or less attached, and t terminates on a tendon, which is inserted in a pointed manner i into the anterior surface of the coronoid process of the ulna. Its