DESCENT OF THE TESTIS. 846 (p. 540). This accounts for the ready sympathy of the stomach and intestines with the testicle, and for the constitutional effects of an injury to it. Descent op The testicle is originally developed in the lumbar luE Testis. region, immediately below the kidney, and is loosely attached to the back of the abdomen by a fold of peritoneum, termed the mesorchiuvi, along which its vessels and nerves run up to it, as to any other abdominal viscus. From the lower end of the gland a fibrous cord, termed the guhernaculum testis,^ pro- ceeds to the bottom of the scrotum. There is no evidence to warrant the assumption that the gradual contraction of the guher- naculum effects the descent of the testis. The organ begins to descend from the lumbar region about the fifth month of foetal life, reaches the internal ring about the seventh, and about the ninth has entered the scrotum. Its original peritoneal coat is retained throughout; but as it enters the inguinal canal, the peritoneal lining of the abdomen is pouched out before it, and eventually becomes the tunica vaginalis reflexa. Immediately after the descent of the testis, its serous bag communicates with the abdomen, and in the lower animals continues to do so throughout life.^ But in the human subject the canal of communication soon begins to close. It closes at the upper extremity first,^ and the closure is generally complete in a child born at its fuU time.'' This provides against the occurrence of ruptures, to which man, ' Mr. Curling considers the guhernaculum testis to be a muscular cord. See his Observations on the Structure of the Guhernaculum, and on the Descent of the Testis in the Foetus : Medical Gazette, April 10, 1841. This is denied by Cleland, see Mcclianism of the Ouhernaculum Testis, 1856. ' According to Professor Owen, the African orang-outang [Simia troglodytes) is the only exception to this rule. In this animal it is interesting to observe that the lower extremities are more fully developed as organs of support, and there is a ligamentum teres in the hiiD-joint. ' The frequency of hernia in the funicular portion of the vaginal process of the peritoneum hardly bears this out. * Camper has shown that the canal on the right side is nearly always open at birth, whereas that on the left is usually closed. This explains the greater fre- quency of hernia on the right side in children under one year old. Thus out of 3,014 cases of inguinal hernia seen at the City of London Truss Society under one year, 2,269 occurred on the right side, and 745 on the left; or in the proportion of 3 to 1.