641 ARTERIAL INOSCULATIONS. through the tendon of tlie adductor magnus, and supplies the hamstring muscles, and inosculates with the perforating and articular arteries. They not only supply the hamstring muscles-—namely, the biceps, semi- tendinosus, and semimembranosus—but, the vastus externus, and even the gluteus maximus. The perforating arteries inosculate with one another, with the internal and external circumflex, and with the sciatic arteries. Muscular branches, from four to seven in number, are distributed by the superficial femoral to the sartorius and the vastus internus. The anastomotica magna arises from the femoral artery just before it leaves its tendinous canal. It emerges through the canal, iind runs in front of the tendon of the adductor magnus, in company with the long saphenous nerve to the inner side of the knee. Here it divides into two branches : one, the superficial, accompanies the saphenous nerve beneath the sartorius, and is subsequently distri- buted to the skin; the other, the deejp, enters the vastus internus, ramifies over the capsule, and communicates with the other articular arteries.^ Aetebial If the common femoral were tied above the Inosculations. origin of the profunda, how would the circulation be carried on ? The gluteal, the ilio-lumbar, and the circumflex iliac communicate with the ascending branch of the external'cir- cumflex ; the obturator and sciatic communicate with the internal circumflex (see fig. 151) ; the arteria comes nervi ischiatici com- municates with branches from the lower perforating and popliteal ) arteries. Again, how is the circulation maintained when the super- ficial femoral is tied beloio the profunda ? The descending branch . -of the external circumflex and the perforating branches of the pro- 1 fdnda communicate with the articular branches of the p)opliteal and 1 the tibial recurrent.^ Antebiob The anterior crural nerve is the largest branch ( Ceceal Neeve. of the lumbar plexus (p. 498). It comes from the ' In its course down the thigh the femoral artery gives off a branch of con- siderable size for the supply of the vastus internus. We may trace this branch through the substance of the vastus down to the patella, where it joins the network of vessels on the surface of that bone. ' Head the account of the dissection of an aneurismal limb by Sir A. Cooper, Med. Chir. Trans, vol. ii., 1811. T T