598 STRUCTURE OF THE STOMACH. The left end is the larger, and is called the cardiac or splenic end; it bulges out to the extent of two or three inches to the left of the entrance of the oesophagus, and is called the great cul-de-sur OTfundus. The right end is narrow, and makes a double bend: near the first it bulges into a pouch, called the antrum injlori, or the small cul-de-sac. The oesophageal or cardiac orifice, situated at the highest part of the stomach, is on the left, and receives the oesophagus; the pyloric orifice is continued on into the duodenum, and is narrow, being guarded by a musculo-mucous ring, the pylorus} The stomach is connected at its borders by peritoneal folds extending to neighbouring structures: thus, its lesser curve is con- nected with the transverse fissure of the liver by the gastro-hepatic or lesser omentum; its cardiac end is connected with the hilum of the spleen by the gastro-splenic omentum; to the left of the oesophagus it is connected with the diaphragm by the gastro-phrenic ligament; to its greater curve is attached the great omentum, which is continuous on the left side with the gastro-splenic omentum. The ijylorus is the narrow circular ring, composed of circular muscular fibres and mucous membrane, through which the food passes into the duodenum. The serous and longitudinal muscular fibres take no part in its formation, being continued over it on to the duodenum. The stomach consists of four coats : serous, muscular, submucous and mucous. The serous or peritoneal coat covers the surface of the stomach, except at the borders where the peritoneum is continued as omenta to other organs; it is along these borders that the vessels run. The muscidar coat can be seen when the serous coat is removed. The fibres are of the unstriped variety, and arranged in three layers: an external or longitudinal, a middle or circular, and an internal or oblique. ' The position of the stomach within the abdomen and its relations mth sur- rounding structures are matters of much dispute. Dr. Lesshaft has come to the conclusion that the stomach is nearly vertical, so that its fundus touches the diaphragm. (See Lancet, March 11, 1882, p. 406.) His, and most anatomists, are of opinion that the long axis is placed obliquely from left to right within the abdomen.