589 STRUCTURE OF THE KIDNEY. that the gland elaborates the albuminous materials of food, and stores them up for a time before they pass into the circulation. The kidneys, two in number, are situated in the Kidneys. lumbar region, behind the peritoneum, imbedded in fat. The left, usually situated higher than the right, is gener- ally longer and somewhat heavier. Their colour is reddish-brown. Each is about four inches in length, two inches and a half in breadth, and one inch and a quarter in thickness. Each weighs about 4^ ounces in the male, and rather less in the female. The kidney presents for examination two surfaces, two borders, and an upper and a lower end. The anterior surface is convex and is covered with peritoneum, and looks somewhat outwards; the posterior surface is rather flat- tened, and rests on the anterior layer of the lumbar aponeurosis and psoas magnus; the outer harder is convex and rounded; the inner harder presents, about its middle, a deep notch about an inch in length, the hihim, leading to a hollow in the kidney, the sinus, for the entrance and exit of the renal vessels and ureter, the nerves and lymphatics ; these have the following relations to one another: in front lies the renal vein; behind is the ureter; between them is the renal artery; the ^^2J29e?• end is large and thick, and looks upwards and inwards, and iipon it rests its corresponding supra- renal capsule; the loiver end, smaller and flatter than the upper end, looks downwards and outwards. The kidney is surrounded by a thin fihrous capsule of thick connective tissue, to which it is loosely connected by areolar tissue and minute vessels, except at the hilum ; here it is reflected inwards and becomes continuous with the walls of the renal vessels and ureter. The capsule can be readily stripped off when healthy, leaving the surface perfectly smooth.' A longitudinal section should be made through the kidney, from the outer to the inner border, to demonstrate the interior. This section displays two distinct parts—an outer ov cortical'portion, and an inner or medullary portion. The cortical structure is deeper in colour than the medullary ' Under the capsule there have been traced unstriped muscular fibres forming an incomplete layer.