614 CUTANEOUS NERVES OF THE THIGH. subcutaneous veins, ifc is provided with valves, chiefly where joined by other veins, to support the column of the blood. Cutaneous The distribution of the cutaneous nerves of the Nebvks. thigh varies considerably, but they are always found more abundantly on the inner than on the outer aspect of the thigh. The nerves are divided into external, middle, and internal. All directly or indirectly proceed from the lumbar plexus, and, perforating the fascia lata, divide in the subcutaneous tissue. ft. The external cutaneous nerve is a branch of the second and third lumbar nerves. It enters the thigh beneath Poupart's liga- ment close to the anterior superior spine of the ilium. Here it divides into two branches, an anterior and a posterior. The anterior branch comes through the fascia lata about four inches below Poupart's ligament, and can be traced down the outer side of the thigh as far as the knee, giving off numerous branches. The posterior branch, after coming through the fascia lata, divides into filaments, which are distributed to the skin over the nates and the posterior part of the thigh. h. The middle cutaneous nerves, one or two in number, are given off by the anterior crural in the thigh. They pass through the sai'torius about four inches below Poupart's ligament, pei'forate the fascia lata, and descend along the front and inner part of the thigh as far as the knee, distributing branches on either side; some of which communicate with the long saphenous nerve. In its course along the front of the thigh it joins with the crural branch of the genito-crui-al and the internal cutaneous nerves. c. The internal cutaneous nerve, also a branch of the anterior crural, crosses obliquely over the sheath of the femoral artery. It then divides into two branches, an anterior and an internal; the anterior hrajicli comes through the fascia lata in the lower third of the thigh, where it terminates in two branches, one being distri- buted to the inner side of the knee, the other crossing over the patella to the outer side of the joint; the internal branch perforates the fascia lata just above the knee-joint, after running down along the posterior border of the sartorius, and supplies the integument on the inner side of the leg. Whilst still beneath the fascia lata,