ARTERIES AND NERVES OF THE BLADDER. 551 to interfere with the passage of the urine. This elevation must be distinguished from enlargement of the third or middle lobe of the prostate. The orifices of the ureters are situated about an inch and a half behind the urethra, and about two inches apart. These tubes per- forate the coats of the bladder obliquely, and slant towards each other, standing out in relief under the mucous membrane.' A slight ridge proceeds from the orifice of each ureter to the neck of the bladder, looking like a continuation of the ureter itself. If the mucous membrane be removed from these ridges, we find that they are produced by muscular fibres. Sir Charles Bell,^ who first drew attention to them, believed them to be of use in regulating the orifices of the ureters, and named them the muscles of the ureters. The bladder is supplied with blood by the superior, middle, and inferior vesical arteries. The superior comes from the unobliterated portion of the hypogastric j the middle, from the superior vesical or the internal iliac; the inferior, from the anterior division of the internal iliac or the pudic. Small branches are also distributed to the bladder by the obturator and sciatic arteries. The veins of the bladder form large plexuses around its neck, sides, and base, and empty themselves into the internal iliac veins. The lymphatics follow the course of the veins. Its nerves are derived from the hypogastric and sacral plexuses ; the former is chiefly distributed to the top, the latter to the neck and the bottom of the bladder. Having already examined the form, size, and Prostate o j ? j relations of the prostate (p. 536), we have now to make out its lobes. There are tivo lateral lobes presenting on their ' This slanting of the ureters serves all the uses of a valve. The urine enters the bladder, drop by drop, but cannot return, because the internal coat is pressed against the other side of the orifice, so as to stop it. When the bladder becomes thickened, in consequence of difficulty in passing urine, it sometimes happens that the ureters lose their valvular direction, so that the urine, when the bladder contracts, is partly forced back up the ureters : the result is, that they become dilated, and the pelvis of the kidney also. ' Med. Chir. Trans, vol. iii. He says : ' These muscles guard the orifices of the ureters by preserving the obliquity of the passage, and pulling down the extremities of the ureters according to the degree of the contraction of the bladder generally.' f