488 PSOAS MAGNUS. lies in front of, the fascia iliaca behind the artery and vein, thus forming their sheath as they pass down the thigh. This portion of the iliac fascia also forms a sheath for the psoas and iliacus as b.v as their insertion, and becomes continuous with the iliac portion of the fascia lata. Internally the iliac fascia is attached to the linea ilio-pectinea, where it becomes continuous with the pubic portion of the fascia lata. The external iliac artery and vein lie in front of the fascia, while the anterior crural nerve is behind it. These fasciae are now to be dissected off, when the psoas and iliacus will be completely exposed. Psoas Ma s '^^^^ ^ong muscle arises by five muscular fas- ciculi from the transverse processes of all the lumbar vertebra, also from the bodies of the last dorsal and all the lumbar vertebrae and their intervening fibro-cartilages, but only from the projecting borders of their bodies, not from the central concave part; here the fibres arise from tendinous arches thrown over the lumbar vessels. The muscle descends vertically along the brim of the pelvis, beneath the crural arch into the thigh, and is inserted by a strong tendon into the back part of the lesser tro- chanter of the femur. In front, the psoas has, in relation with it, the psoas fascia, the ligamentum arcuatum internum, the common and external iliac artery and vein, the kidney and ureter, the spermatic vessels, the genito-crural nerve, the colon, the renal vessels, the vas deferens, the psoas parvus when present; behind it, are the ilium, the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebras, the quadratus lumborum, the anterior layer of the transversalis apo- neurosis, the lumbar plexus of nerves, and the obturator nerve, Avhich lower down runs along the inner border of the inuscle; on its inner side, are—the cms of the diaphragm, the bodies of the lumbar vertebrae, the lumbar arteries, the lumbar glands, and the sympathetic nerves; to the inner side of the left psoas is the aorta, and to that of the right psoas is the inferior vena cava. Towards its insertion the tendon of the psoas liesbetween the iliacus andpectineus. pus be seated in the loose cellular tissue between the peritoneum and the fascia, it usually advances just above the crest of the ilium, or towards the groin through the inguinal canal; but, if seated beneath the fascia, the matter usually makes its way under the crural arch towards the upper and outer part of the thigh.