93 DIGASTRIC TRIANGLE. jaw. Raise tlie submaxillary gland to see the intermediate tendon of the digastricus piercing the stylo-hyoid muscle, the angle which it forms, and how it is fastened by aponeurosis to the body and the greater cornu of the os hyoides. Observe also that this aponeurosis—sup-a-hyoid aponeurosis—is connected in the mesial line with its fellow of the opposite side, so that a fibrous expan- sion occupies the interval between the anterior portions of the digastrici. The chief action of the digastricus is to depress the lower jaw. But if the lower jaw be fixed, then the muscle raises the os hyoides, as in deglutition. The posterior belly of the digastricus is supplied by a nerve from the facial; the anterior belly by a branch from the mylo- hyoidean nerve (which comes from the third division of the fifth pair). Stylo- The stylo-hyoideus arises from the middle of HToiDEus. the styloid process of the temporal bone, and pass- ing downwards and forwards is inserted into the body of the os hyoides. This muscle at first runs above the posterior belly of the digastricus, and near its insertion is pierced by the digastric tendon. Its nerve is derived from the facial close to its exit from the stylo-mastoid foramen, in common with the branch to the pos- terior belly of the digastricus.' Its action is to raise and draw back the os hyoides. The digastric triangle is bounded above by the horizontal ramus of the lower jaw, and mastoid process of the temporal bone ; behind by the posterior belly of the digastricus ; and in front by the ante- rior belly. The objects to be examined in this triangle are twelve in number, as follow— 1. Submaxillary salivary gland. 7. Stylo-maxillary ligament. 2. Facial vein. 8. Part of the parotid gland. 3. Facial artery. 9. Part of the external carotid artery. 4. Submental artery. 10. Mylo-hyoideus muscle. 5. Mylo-hyoidean nerve. 11. Hypoglossal nerve. 6. Submaxillary lymphatic glands. 12. Part of the hyo-glossus muscle. ' In many, if not in most subjects, a small filament from the hypoglossal nerve is distributed to this muscle.