466 CCELIAC AXIS. Dissection. These branches are to be traced throughout in the following order. Take the coeliac axis first. To dissect this artery and its branches, the liver must be well raised and the stomach drawn down, as in fig. 109, and the anterior layer of peritoneum removed from the gastro-hepatic omentum. A close network of very tough tissue surrounds the visceral branches of the aorta. This tissue consists almost entirely of plexuses of nerves, derived from the sympathetic system, each plexus taking the name of the artery which it surrounds. Of these plexuses, the largest surrounds the coeliac axis like a ring. This is the solar plexus, and is formed by the junction of the two semilunar gan- glia (see Dissection of Thorax, p. 189). From this, as from a root, other secondary plexuses branch ofi", and surround the following arteries—the phrenic, coronary, hepatic, splenic, superior mesen- teric, inferior mesenteric, and renal; the plexuses receiving the names of the arteries around which they twine. It requires a lean subject and much patience to trace them. CcELiAc Axis AND Tho GoeUac axis arises from the front of the ITS Branches. aorta, between the pillars of the diaphragm, im- mediately above the upper border of the pancreas, to the left of the lobulus Spigelii, to the right of the cardiac end of the stomach, and having the semilunar ganglia on each side. It is a short, thick trunk which runs between the two layers of the lesser omen- tum, and, after a course of about half an inch, divides into three branches, the hepatic running to the right, the splenic to the left, and the coronaria ventriculi upwards and to the left side. The following is the plan of the coeliac axis and its branches:— ' Coronaria ventri- f oesophageal. CcELiAC Axis ouli. Hepatic Splenic (gastric. {pyloric, gastro-duodenalis cystic, pancreatic branches, gastro-epiploica sinistra, .vasa brevia to stomach. gastro-epiploica dextra. pancreatico-duodenalis- superior. The coronaria ventriculi, the smallest of the three, ascends a little to the left towards the oesophageal end of the stomach, where it gives off oesophageal cohonabu Ventriculi.