696 PUBIC SYMPHYSIS. The lesser sacro-sciatic ligament lies in front of the preceding ligament, and, like it, is triangular, though smaller and shorter. It passes from the sides of the sacrum and coccyx to the spine of the ischium, where it narrows considerably. The attachments of the sacro-sciatic ligaments to the sacrum and coccyx are more or less blended, and they not only serve to connect the bones, but also, from their great breadth, contribute to diminish the lower aperture of the pelvis. Pubic Sym- This is formed by the union of the pubic bones, PHYsis. in front, by means of an interposed piece of fibro- cartilage. It is an amphiarthrodial articulation, and is secured by the following ligaments :— The anterior pubic ligament consists of several layers of irre- gular superficial fibres which run obliquely and decussate with each other, and of deeper fibres which pass transversely across from one bone to the other, and are connected with the fibro-cartilage. The ])osterior i^vhic ligament consists of fibres, less distinct than the antei'ior, which connect the two pubic bones posteriorly. The superior puhic ligament Tpasses across the upper surface of the pubic bones. The subpubic ligament is very strong, and extends between the rami of the pubic bones, beneath the fibro-cartilage with which it is blended; it rounds ofi^ the pubic arch, and is situated between the two layers of the triangular ligament. The intermediate fibro-cartilage is composed of two layers of car- tilage, each attached to the inner border of the body of the os pubis by a number of nipple-like processes fitting in to corresponding depressions on the bony surface. Between these cartilaginous plates there is a thick stratum of fibrous and fibro-elastic tissue. In the middle line at the upper and back part is usually a smooth cavity lined with epithelium. The cartilage acts as a buffer, and breaks the force of shocks passing through the pehdc arch. Ligaments op This joint is secured by the form of the bones, THE Hip-joint. and by the strength of the powerful muscles which surround it. Although an enarthrodial or ball-and-socket joint, its range of motion is somewhat limited; the disposition of its ligaments restricts its range of motion to those directions only