67 CUTANEOUS NERVES OF THE NECK. Near tlie angle of the jaw the external jugular rein communi- cates by a large branch with the internal jugular, and about its middle it is joined by a large vein—posterior external jugular— from the occipital region. Before its termination the external jugular vein generally receives the supra-scapular,' posterior scapular, and other unnamed veins : a disposition very embarrassing to the surgeon, because there is a confluence of veins immediately over the subclavian artery in the place where it is usually tied. Anterior The anterior jugular vein is situated more in Jugular Vein. the middle of the neck, and is much smaller than the external jugular. It commences by small branches below the chin, and runs down the front of the neck, nearly to the sternum; it then curves outwards, beneath the sterno-mastoid muscle, and opens either into the external jugular or the siibclavian vein. We commonly meet with two anterior jugular veins, one on either side ; immediately above the sternum they communicate by a transverse branch. The size of the anterior jugular vein is inversely proportionate to that of the external jugular. When the external jugular is small, or terminates in the internal jugular, then the anterior jugular becomes an important supplemental vein, and attains con- siderable size. It is not uncommon to find it a quarter of an inch in diameter, and we have seen it nearly half an inch. These varieties should be remembered in tracheotomy. Superficial lymphatic glands are sometimes found near the cutaneous veins of the neck. From four to six in number, they are small and escape observation unless enlarged by disease. One or two are situated over the sterno-mastoid muscle; others, near the mesial line. Cutaneous The cutaneous nerves of the neck are the super- Nerves of the ficial branches of the cervical plexus : the plexus itself cannot at present be seen. It is formed by the communications of the anterior divisions of the four upper cer- vical nerves, and lies under the sterno-mastoid muscle, close to the transverse processes of the four upper cervical vertebrje, resting on the levator anguli scapulae and the scalenus medius. The super- F 2 *