112 PHRENIC NERVE. behind it. In tlie front of it are, the clavicle, the subclavius, the clavicular origin of the sterno-mastoid, the omo-hyoid, the phrenic nerve, the subclavian vein, the siipra-scapular, the posterior scapu- lar, and the ascending cervical arteries. Behind it are the sub- clavian arteiy, the five nerves which form the brachial plexus, and the pleura; to its inner side is the internal jugular vein, and the vertebral artery separates it from the longus colli. Make your finger familiar with the feel of the tubercle on the first rib, to which the scalenus anticus is attached. This tubercle is the guide to the subclavian artery, for it enables you to find the ■outer edge of the scalenus anticus, where you must look for the vessel. Is the scalenus anticus entirely concealed from view by the sterno-mastoid or not ? This will depend upon the breadth of the clavicular attachment of the sterno-mastoid. As a general rule, it may be said that the scalene muscle is concealed by the sterno- mastoid, and that consequently, in tying the subclavian artery, it may be necessary to divide partially the clavicular origin of the muscle. The phrenic nerve runs down in front of the Phrenic Nerve. •, ,. « a. x xi • scalenus anticus, Irom the outer to the inner border. It arises from the third, fourth, and fifth cervical nerves, but chiefly from the fourth. It enters the chest between the sub- clavian artery and vein, crosses in front of the internal mammary artery, and continues its course between the pericardium and pleura, in front of the root of the lung, to the diaphragm, which it supplies. When the spinal cord is injured above the fourth cervical ver- tebra, the origin of the phrenic is implicated ; therefore the dia- phragm, as well as the other muscles of inspiration, are paralysed. Death is the immediate result.' ' The phrenic nerve is joined by a filament from the symijathetic, and fre- quently by a filament from that branch of the brachial plexus which supplies the subclavius muscle. This is sometimes a branch of considerable size, and foi-ms the greater portion of the phrenic itself. We have met with many instances in which this accessory branch was larger than the regular trunk ; in all of them it crossed over the subclavian artery in the third part of its course, and would prob- ably have been injured in the operation of tying this vessel. That such an acci- dent has actually happened is reported by Bransby Cooper in his surgical lectures. He speaks of haying injured this accessory branch of the phrenic in tying the sub- clavian artery. The patient had incessant spasm of the diaphragm till he died.