STRUCTURE OF THE BLADDER. 548 Structure op The bladder is composed of a partial peritoneal THE Bladdeb. coat, a muscular, and a mucous; between the last two there is a layer of connective tissue, which is called the cellular coat. The serous or peritoneal coat invests the posterior, lateral, and superior surfaces of the bladder: it is absent on the anterior and inferior aspect. The muscular coat is situated beneath the serous, and consists of unstriped muscular fibres, which interlace with each other in all directions. Their general arrangement is as follows:—An outer, or longitudinal, layer arises from the pubo-prostatic ligaments, the upper half of the circumference of the prostate and the neck of the bladder, and thence its fibres spread out longitudinally over the summit of the bladder, pass round its posterior aspect and base, to be inserted into the prostate in the male, and the vagina in the female. This layer is especially marked on the anterior and pos- terior surfaces of the bladder. There are also some lateral longi- tudinal fibres which pass backwards from the sides of the prostate and interlace in all directions. Between these is a thin layer of eircidar fibres, especially developed near the neck and the com- mencement of the urethra, where they form a sphincter—sphincter vesical. Towards the sides of the bladder the two sets of fibres have a less definite arrangement and form a kind of network: these, therefore, are the weakest parts of the bladder, and more liable to the formation of pouches.' The development and colour of the muscular fibres depend upon how far the subject has suffered from irritation of the bladder, or any obstruction to the expulsion of the urine. The cellular coat loosely connects the muscular with the mucous coat, and is firmly adherent to the latter. ' These pouches arise in the following manner:—A portion of mucous mem- brane is protruded through one of the muscular interstices, so as to form a little sac. This is small at first, but gradually increases in size, because, having no muscular coat, it has no power of emptying itself; generally speaking, several such sacs are met with in the same bladder ; and they sometimes contain calculi. If a calculus, originally loose in the bladder, happen to become lodged in a pouch by the side of it, a sudden remission of the symptoms may ensue. This explains our occasional inability to detect its presence at each examination with the sound.