MUSCLES OF THE BALL OF THE LITTLE FINGER. 360 ponens minimi digiti. All derive their nerves from the deep branch of the ulnar. Abductor This, the most superficial of tlie muscles of the Minimi Digiti. little finger, arises from the pisiform bone, and from the tendinous expansion of the flexor carpi ulnaris : it is in- serted by a flat tendon into the inner side of the base of the first phalanx of the little finger. Its action is to draw this finger from the others. Its nerve comes from the deep branch of the ulnar. Flexor Beevis This slender muscle may be considered as a por- MiNiMi Digiti. tion of the preceding, to the radial side of which it is situated. It arises from the apex of the unciform bone and annular ligament, and is inserted with the tendon of the abductor into the base of the first phalanx of the little finger. Its action is similar to that of the abductor. Nerve from deep branch of ulnar. Between the origins of the abductor and flexor brevis minimi digiti, the deep branch of the ulnar arteiy and nerve sinks down to form the deep palmar arch. Opponens The last two muscles must be reflected from Minimi Digiti. tlxeir insertion, to expose the opponens minimi digiti. It arises from the unciform process and the annular liga- ment, and is inserted along the ulnar side of the shaft of the meta- carpal bone of the little finger. Its action is to draw this bone, the most moveable of all the metacarpal bones of the fingers, towards the thumb. Thus it greatly strengthens the grasp of the palm. Nerve from deep branch of ulnar. Cut vertically through the anterior annular iOlSSKCTIONt ligament, and observe that, with the carpal bones, it forms an elliptical canal, with the broad diameter transversely. This canal is lined by a synovial membrane which is reflected loosely over the tendons. Superficial to the ligament pass the palmaris longus, the ulnar artery and nerve, the fibrous expansion from the flexor carpi ulnaris covering these vessels and nerve, and the palmar branch of the median and ulnar nerves ; beneath it pass the superficial and deep flexor tendons of the fingers, the long flexor tendon of the thumb, and the median nerve. The tendon of the flexor carpi radialis does not run with the other tendons, but is contained in a distinct sheath, lined by a separate synovial mem-