108 POSTERIOR AURICULAR ARTKRY. 6. The mastoid enters the foramen in tlie mastoid process, and supplies the dura mater. 7. The cranial branches supply the scalp on its posterior aspect, and anastomose freely with the corresponding artery of the opposite side, the posterior auricular and the superficial temporal arteries. The occipital vein accompanies the artery, and is connected with the lateral sinus through a small vein running through tlie mas- toid foramen. It subsequentljr terminates in the internal jugular, occasionally in the external jugular vein. PosTEEioB Au- The posterior auricular artery, the fifth branch, KiouLAE Artery. ig given off from the posterior part of the external carotid. It arises above the digastricus, lies on the styloid process, and under cover of the parotid gland reaches the furrow between the cartilage of the ear and the mastoid process. Before it reaches the furrow it is crossed by the facial nerve,' and just beneath it is the spinal accessory. Above the mastoid px'ocess it divides into two branches, a posterior inosculating with the occipital, and an anterior communicating with the temporal. It supplies the back of the scalp and the cartilage of the ear. It gives off— 1. Small branches to the digastricus, stylo-hyoid, and the parotid gland. 2. The stylo-mastoid, a vei-y constant little artery, which runs through the stylo-mastoid foramen to supply the mastoid cells, the vestibule, and the membrana tympani. In young subjects, one of these latter branches forms a vascular circle around the circumference of the membrane with the tympamc brancli of the internal maxillary. 3. The auricular branch runs along the cranial surface of the auricle, and anastomoses with the superficial temporal and occipital arteries. Some of the branches pierce the cartilage of the ear and ramify on its antei-ior surface. 4. The mastoid branch is distributed to the structures over the mastoid process. The posterior auriculcm' vein is rather large, and running over the mastoid process, terminates in the external jugular vein. Posterior Au- The posterior auricular nerve lies close to the EicuLAB Nerve. artery of the same name. It is the first branch of ' The posterior auricular artery frequently runs superficial to the facial nerve.