RANINE VEIN. 106 beneath the hyo-glossus m. parallel to the os hyoides. At the ante- rior edge of the hyo-glossus it ascends to the under surface of the tongue, and is continued forwards to the apex of the tongue under the name of ranine. Before the artery passes beneath the hyo- glossus, it is crossed by the hypoglossal nerve, but it immediately after becomes separated from the nerve by this muscle. Under the hyo-glossus the artery lies upon the middle constrictor of the pharynx, and the genio-hyo-glossus; in the substance of the tongue, it lies between the genio-hyo-glossus and the inferior lingualis. The curves made by the artery are for the purpose of allowing the elongation of the tongue. Its branches are:— 1. The h'l/oid, a small artery which runs along the upper border of the hyoid bone, supplying the muscles and anastomosing with its fellow, and with tlie hyoid branch of the superior thyroid artery. The nerve to the thyro-hyoid muscle, which is derived from the hypoglossal, accompanies this artery. 2. The dorsales linyiue, two or more, run under tlie hyo-glossus to the back of tlie tongue, the mucous membrane, tonsil, and soft palate. 3. The sublingual, arising near the anterior border of the hyo- glossus, supplies the sublingual gland, tlie mylo-hyoideus, and the mucous membrane of the mouth and gums. This artery generally gives off the little artery of the frnenum linguse, which is sometimes wounded in cutting the frtenuni in children who are tongue-tied; especially when we neglect the rule of pointing the scissors downwards and backwards. 4. The ranine is the termmation of the lingual artery. As it runs fonvards to the tip of the tongue along the outer side of the genio-hyo- glossus, alon^ with the gustatory nerve, it distributes branches to the tongue, and at the tip inosculates slightly with its fellow of the opposite side. The ranine vein, commencing at the tip of the tongue, after join- ing with the vente comites of the lingual artery and the dorsal veins of the tongue, runs along its under surface over the hyo- glossus, and terminates in the internal jugular or facial vein. The best place for finding and tying the lingual artery has been mentioned (p. 100). The rule laid down is trustworthy only when the artery runs its normal course. We have known an instance in which a good anatomist failed in an attempt to tie the