ORIGmS OF THE CRANIAL NERVES. 749 At the commissiive some of tlie nei've-fibres cross from one side to tlie other. This decussation affects only the middle fibres of the nerve; the outer fibres pass from one optic tract to the optic nerve of the same side; the inner fibres pass from one optic tract round to the optic tract of the opposite side ; while in front of the commissure are fibres which pass from one optic nerve to its fellow (p. 754). Third Pair The apparent origin of the third nerve is from OR MoTOREs the inner side of the crus cerebri, immediately in OcuLORust. front of the pons. Some of its roots, however, pass through the locus niger and the tegmentum of the crus, to reach a nucleus of large yellow cells beneath the iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculum, extending forwards as far as the posterior commissure, and behind as far as the nucleus of the fourth nerve (see below). It runs forwards through the cavernous sinus, and, passing through the sphenoidal fissure in two divisions, supplies all the muscles of the orbit except the superior oblique and the external rectus. Fourth Pair The fourth nerve has its deep origin from a OR Trochlear nucleus of gi'ey matter in the floor of the aqueduct of Sjdvius, beneath the corpora quadrigemina, and almost continuous superiorly with the yellow nucleus of the third nerve. The nerve fibres then run backwards, upwards, and inwards in the lateral wall of the Sylvian aqueduct, and reach the anterior part of the valve of Vieussens, where they cross over to the opposite side. The nerve then emerges from the valve of Vieussens close to the middle line, and, winding round the crus cerebri, enters the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure and supplies the superior oblique. Fifth Pair or The fifth nerve is the largest of all the cranial Trioeiunal nerves, and consists of two roots, a larger or Nerves. sensory, and a smaller or motor. It has its appa- rent origin from the outer side of the pons Varolii, and a few of the transverse fibres of this body separate the two roots of the fifth. The motor or smaller root consists of fibres which take origin from J an oval grey nucleus (motor nucleus) situated in the front part of t'the floor of the fourth ventricle, internal to its lateral boundary;