562 THE FEMALE PELVIC VISCERA. tlielial cells, and whicli communicate very freely witli each other. This is easily demonstrated by injecting the dorsal vein of the penis with wax. In this way, we not only fill the spongy body, but also the glans, and the large veins which form the plexus round tlie corona glandis. The veins return the blood; some by small veins, which emerge from the glans and collect on the dorsal surface to form the dorsal vein; others pass into the dorsal vein, either through the corpora cavernosa, or by curving round the sides of the corpora cavernosa; but by far the larger number join the prostatic and the pudic veins, communicating also with the subcutaneous veins of the penis and the scrotum. The nerves of the penis are the imdie and its siuperficial i^erineal branch. The largest branches run along the dorsam to the surface of the glans ; a few only enter the erectile tissue of the organ. The pudic nerve and its branch supply the skin and the mucous mem- brane. Some of the filaments distributed to the glans have con- nected with them Pacinian bodies, and some end in simple and compound end-bulbs. The erectile tissue is supplied by numerous filaments proceeding from the hypogastric plexus. The lymphatics consist of a superficial and a deep set; the super- ficial, proceeding from the glans and the integument of the penis, join the inguinal glands. The lymphatics of the glans communicate freely all round it: this explains why a venereal sore on one side sometimes affects the inguinal glands on the other. The deep lymphatics from the corpora cavernosa and the corpus spongiosum pass beneath the pubic arch and join the lymphatics of the pelvis. DISSECTION OF THE FEMALE PELVIC VISCEEA« Side View of After the removal of the left innominate bone, THE Female as described in the dissection for the side view of Pelvic Obgans. rasle j)elvic viscera, the vagina, rectum, and bladder should be moderately distended, the two former with tow, the latter with air. This done, the refiections of the peritoneiun must be traced, the description of which will be found in the dis-