185 (ESOPHAGUS. these it receives the lymphatics from the left side of the thorax, the left lung, the left side of the heart, the left upper extremity, and the left side of the head and neck. _ The' tesopharius is that part of the alimentary (Esophagus. iptp , , canal which conveys the lood irom tlie pharynx to the stomach. It commences at the lower border of the fifth cervical vertebra, at the back of the cricoid cartilage; runs down in front of the spine, to the right side of the transverse portion of the arch of the aorta, then through the posterior mediastinum in front of the descending aorta, and passes through the oesophageal opening in the diaphragm to end in the stomach, opposite the ninth dorsal vertebra. It is from nine to ten inches long. Its course is not exactly straightj for it describes three curves—one an antero- posterior, the other two lateral curves. In the neck at its com- mencement it lies at first in the middle line; it then gets behind, and a little to the left of the trachea; in the chest, i.e. about the fourth dorsal vertebra, it inclines towards the right side to make way for the aorta; but it again inclines to the left before it passes through the diaphragm. Its antero-posterior curve corresponds to the curve of the spinal column. The (Esophagus, in the neck, rests behind, upon the front of the spine covered by the longus colli muscle ; in front, it has the trachea; on each side, it is in relation with the thyroid body, the common carotid (chiefly the left), and inferior thyroid arteries, and the recurrent laryngeal nerves; to the left of it is the thoracic duct. In the thorax, the oesophagus has, in front, the trachea, the left bronchus, the arch of the aorta, the left carotid and left subclavian arteries; and, lastly, for about two inches, the posterior surface of the pericardium (behind the left auricle): this accounts for the pain which is sometimes experienced, in cases of pericarditis, during the passage of food ; heldyid, it rests upon the spinal column, the longus colli, the thoracic duct, the third, fourth, and fifth intercostal arteries of the right side; and, lastly, it lies in front of and slightly to the left side of the aorta ; laterally, the aorta and pleura are to the left, and the vena azygos major to the right of the tube. As it passes down in the interpleural space, it is in connection with both pleurae. The oesophagus is surrounded by a