LATERAL SINUSES. 13 the posterior clinoid process and tlie upper border of tlie petrous portion of tlie temporal bone, as far back as tlie lateral sinus. If this be done with care, the nerves lying beneath the tentorium will not have been injured. Immediately external to the third nerves are the slender fourth nerves; and still further outside are the soft flattened fifth nerves. Cut these through, still gently raising the brain from the skull base, when the seventh pair come into view as they pass backwards and outwards towards the internal auditory foramina. When these have been cut, we notice the two sixth nerves running directly forwards to pierce the dura mater covering the basilar process of the occiput. Divide these as they pierce the dura mater, when the three divisions of the eighth are brought well into view, lying behind and internal to the seventh; the anterior one is the glosso-pharyngeal, the middle one is the pneumogastric, and the hindermost one is the spinal accessory, whose spinal por- tion can be traced coming up from the foramen magnum. These all emerge through the jugular foramina. Below and internal to these are the hypoglossal nerves, which usually pass through the dura mater in two fasciculi. Cut these, and then pass down the knife as far into the spinal canal as possible, and cut through the spinal cord, the two vertebral arteries, and the spinal portions of the spinal accessory nerves. Now lay the knife aside, when by gentle traction the brain can be easily removed from the skull. The other sinuses should now be examined. Latekai, These are the two great sinuses through which Sinuses. all the blood from the brain is returned to the jugular veins. Their course is well marked in the dry skull. The right is usually the larger. Each commences at the internal occipital protuberance, and proceeds at first horizontally outwards, enclosed between the layers of the tentorium, along a groove in the occipital bone and the posterior inferior angle of the parietal; it then descends along the mastoid portion of the temporal bone, and again indenting the occipital bone, turns forwards to the foramen lacerum posterius, and terminates in the bulb of the internal jugular vein,' where it is joined by the inferior petrosal ' It has, in sorae subjects, another outlet, through the foramen mastoideum, or else through the posterior condylar foramen.