dissp:ction of the orbit. 49 The infra-orhital arferij is the terminal branch of the internal maxillary ; it supplies the muscles, the skin, and the front teeth of the upper jaw, and inosculates with the transverse facial, buccal, facial, and coronary arteries. The naso-lohular nerve is the external branch of the nasal nerve and is distributed to the tip and lobule of the nose, and is joined by filaments from the facial nerve. The temporal branch of the orbital nerce (branch of the superior maxillary nerve, running along the outer wall of the orbit, and which divides into a temporal and a malar branch) issues through the temporal fascia about a finger's breadth above the zygoma, and supplies the skin of the temple. It communicates with the facial and the auriculo-temporal nerves. The malar nerve, a branch also of the orbital nerve, issues through a foramen in the malar bone, and, after piercing the orbi- cularis palpebrarum, supplies the skin of the cheek over the malar bone. It communicates with the facial and the palpebral branches of the infra-orbital nerve. The mental nerve is a branch of the inferior maxillary or third division of the fifth. It emerges from the mental foramen in the lower jaw, in a direction upwards and backwards, beneath the depressor anguli oris. It soon divides into a number of branches beneath the depressor labii inferioris, some of which supply the skin of the chin, but the greater number terminate in the papillas of the lower lip. It communicates with the facial nerve. The mental artery is a branch of the inferior dental. It supplies the gums and the chin, and inosculates with the smb-mental, the inferior labial, and inferior coronary arteries. „ To expose the contents of the orbit, remove that DiSSECXIOX. . ^ -11 • portion of the orbital plate, which forms the roof of the orbit, as far back as the optic foramen, making one section with a saw on the outer side, the other on the inner side of the roof, so that the two sections converge at the optic foramen. In doing this, be careful not to injure the little pulley on the inner side for the superior oblique. If the bone be sufficiently sawn through, a gentle tap with the saw on the front of the orbital phito will fracture its thin wall transversely. The anterior fourth of the E