CUTANEOUS NERVES OF THE NECK. 68 ficial branches of the plexus emerge from beneath the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid, and take different directions. They are named thus (fig. 24) :— '^Ascending branches . Superficial branches of the cervical plexus. Great auricular. Small occipital. Transverse branch . . , Superficial cervical. 'Sternal. Descending branches . . • Clavicular. Acromial. The great auricular n. comes from the second and third cervical nerves, winds round the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid, and ascends obliquely over that muscle, near the external jugular vein, towards the parotid gland. Near the gland it divides into two prin- cipal branches, of wliich the anterior or facial branches are distributed to the skin over the parotid gland, where they join branches from the facial nerve, and to the side of the cheek ; the j)osterior or auricular, after ascending a short distance, give off a branch, which ramifies mainly upon the cranial aspect of the cartilage of the ear; and a smaller branch, the mastoid, which supplies the skin over the mastoid process. Other filaments of this nerve communicate in the substance of tlie parotid gland with branches of the facial nerve. The small occipital n. comes from the second cervical nerve, and is occasionally double. It ascends along the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle to the occiput, where it supplies the back of the scalp, and communicates with the great occipital, the gi-eat auricular, and the posterior auricular nerves. It also sends ofi" one branch, which is distributed to the skin of the temporal region, and another auricular to the piima of the ear. Beneath the sterno-mastoid tliis nerve com- monly forms a loop, which embraces the nervus accessorius, and sends a branch to it. The siqjerjicial cervical n. comes from the second and third cervical nerves. It passes transversely forwards over the sterno-mastoid muscle, and supplies the front of the neck. Some of its filaments ascend towards the jaw, and join the cervical branch of the facial nerve ; other filaments descend and supply the skin in front of the neck as low as the sternum. The descending or suj^ra-clavicidar branches are derived from the third and fourth cervical nerves, and divide into three brandies, wliicli cross over the clavicle, and supply the skin of the front of the cliest and shoulder. Of these, one, called the internal or sternal, supplies the skin