839 THE SCROTUM AND TESTES. so'otum, are the intercolumnar or spermatic fascia, derived from, the pillars of the external abdominal ring, the cremasteric fascia, derived from the lower border of the internal oblique of the abdo- men, the infundihuliform fascia, derived from the fascia transver- sal is ; and, lastly, the tunica vaginalis, derived from the parietal layer of the peritoneum. The spermatic fascia, cremaster muscle, and the infandibuli- form fascia have been described (pp. 427, 429, 436). Each of these coverings cannot be demonstrated under ordinary circumstances, because they are so blended together : but they can be shown when hypertrophied in the case of old and large hermge. The arteries supplying the tissues of the testis are the cremas- teric branch of the deep epigastric artery, the superficial and deep external pudic branches of the common femoral artery, and the superficial perineal branch of the internal pudic artery. The nerves are derived from the ilio-inguinal, the genital branch of the genito-crural, the superficial perineal nerves, and the inferior pudendal branch of the lesser sciatic nerve. The lymphatics pass to the inguinal glands. rj,^^^^ The testis is a gland of an oval shape with flattened sides, suspended obliquely in the scrotum by the spermatic cord, so that its upper end is directed forwards and outwards, its lower end in the reverse direction. The left is generally a little lower of the two. Each testis is from an inch and a half to two inches in length, an inch in breadth, and an inch and a quarter from behind forwards. Its weight is from six to eight drachms, but few organs present greater variations in size and weight, even in men of the same age ; generally speaking, the left is the larger. The front and sides of the testis are convex and smooth, and are covered with the visceral layer of the tunica vaginalis; but the posterior surface is only partially invested, as there is here placed a long narrow body, termed the epididymis; ^ this is not a part of the testis, but an appendage to it, formed by the convolutions of its long excretory duct. The epididymis consists of a larger upper end called the globus ' Prom SfSuyuoy, a testicle.