POPLITEAL SPACE. G64 rotate the foot inwards, and draw a line from the top of tlie great trochanter to the base of the coccyx ; the junction of the inner with the outer two-thirds gives the situation of the artery.' Popliteal is advisable to examine the popliteal space at Space : its this stage of the dissection, in order that the various BouNDABiEs. parts may be carefully made out with as little dis- turbance as possible of their mutual relations. Sdbface The popliteal space is a lozenge-shaped hollow Mabking. at the back of the knee-joint, extending as high as the junction of the middle with the lower third of the femur, and as low as the upper sixth of the tibia. The hollow is most apparent when the knee is flexed, as then the tendinous boundaries stand out in bold relief; it is almost lost when the leg is extended. The tendon on the outer side is that of the biceps, diverging to the head of the fibula ; on the outer side, and below, are the plantaris and outer head of the gastrocnemius, which are not well defined; on the inner side, above, we can feel three tendons in the following order from within outwards—the semitendinosus, the semimem- branosus, and the gracilis; below, on their inner side, is the inner head of the gastrocnemius. The upper angle of this space is formed by the diverging biceps and semitendinosus ; the lower angle by the converging heads of the gastrocnemius. Passing from above downwards in the middle of the space, and in the following order, are the internal popliteal nerve, the popliteal vein and artery; and along the inner border of the biceps can be felt the external popli- teal nerve. Filling up the hollow is a quantity of soft fat, with some lymphatic glands, and on the bone rest the articular arteries. A vertical incision must be made along the Dissection. middle of the ham, extending from six inches above, to three inches below the knee : transverse incisions should be made at each extremity of the vertical, so that the skin may be conveniently reflected. In doing so, care must be taken to preserve the cutaneous branch of the lesser sciatic nerve, which descends over the space to the back of the leg. ' Mr. Travel's succeeded in arresting hoemorrhage from a sloughing ulcer of the glans penis by pressing the pudic artery with a cork against the spine of the ischium.