834 AUDITORY NERVE. outer or fibrous layer, which is connected with the periosteum by- blood-vessels, and contains irregular pigment-cells; a middle or tunica propria, clear and structureless; and an inner or epithelial lai/er, which lines the inner space of the tunica propria. At the ampuUge the epithelial layer is composed of the columnar variety, upon which are arranged cells of a spindle shape, having delicate ciUated processes (auditory hairs) projecting into the endolymph. The membranous labyrinth is protected, inside and out, by fluid. The fluid in the interior is termed the endolymph or liquor Scarpce, and the thin layer between it and the bone, the perilymph or liquor Cotunnii; thus the delicate nervous membrane is placed between two layers of fluid. DisTBiBDTioN ^he auditory nerve, or the eighth cranial nerve, OF THE Auditory passes down the meatus auditorius internus, and. Nerve. g^j; ^j^q bottom of it, divides into an anterior and posterior branch, which, after breaking up into numerous fasciculi, are distributed to the cochlea and to the vestibule. The vestibular nerve divides into five branches, which proceed to the utricle, the saccule, and the three ampullae of the semi- circular canals, respectively: those for the utricle, and the superior and external semicircular canals enter the vestibule along the crista vestibuli; that for the saccule enters through the fovea hemi- spherica, and that for the posterior semicircular canal is continued along a bony canal to its termination. The nerves to the semi- circular canals enter the ampullEe by a forked swelling which corresponds to each septum transversum. The cochlear division of the auditory nerve is a short, thick branch, which breaks up into numerous filaments at the bottom of the ' meatus auditorius internus. These enter the canals in the base of the modiolus, and then arch outwards between the plates of the lamina ossea. In their course outwards between the plates, they pass through the spirally arranged ganglionic cord, ganglion spirale, beyond which they form a wide plexus. They are collected to- gether close to the free border of the osseous zone, forming a very minute nerve-plexus, whose filaments interlace freely; they then