COMMON ILIAC ARTERIES. 491 div'erge at an acute angle, and, after a course of about two inches do^vnwards and outwards, each divides, over the sacro-iliac sym- physis, into the external and internal iliac arteries. They lie upon the bodies of the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebras. The right common iliac is rather larger than the left. They are covered in front by peritoneum, they are crossed by branches of the sym- pathetic to form the hypogastric plexus, and they are crossed at or near their division by the ureters; on the outer side they are in relation with the psoas. So far, then, the relations of both common iliac arteries are similar. But each has its special relations as follows :— The special relations of the right common iliac are, that it has hehincl it the two common iliac veins, which separate it from the fifth lumbar vertebra; on its oider side, it has, above, the inferior vena cava; below, the right common iliac vein. The special relations of the left common iliac are, that it has in front of it the end of the sigmoid flexure of the colon, and 'the superior hgemorrhoidal artery; and to its inner side, the left common iliac vein, which gradually gets more behind it towards the sacro-iliac symphysis. The relations of these arteries with regard to their correspond- ing veins are, practically, important in reference to the operation of tying them. This operation is, obviously, easier on the left side than the right. ^ If the common iliac artery were ligatured, the collateral cir- culation would be maintained through the following vessels : by the internal mammary anastomosing with the deep epigastric a.; by the lumbar arteries with the circumflex Uiac and the ilio- lumbar a.; by the lumbar with the gluteal; by the middle sacral ' The length of the common iliac artery is apt to vary in different persons. We have seen it from three-fourths of an inch to three and a half inches long. These varieties may arise either from a high division of the aorta, or a low division of the common iliac, or both. It is impossible to ascertain, beforehand, its length in any given instance, as there is no necessary relation between its length and the height of the adult individual. It is often very short in men of tall stature, and vice versa. The left is usually described as rather longer than the right; but, from the examination of 100 bodies, our conclusion is that their average length is the same.