257 INTRINSIC MUSCLES OF THE TONGUE. proceed from eacli group, and terminate by separate orifices on the under surface of the tongue. Muscular substance of the tongue is composed of Fibres of the muscular fibres and of a small quantity of fat. The Tongue. extrinsic muscles of the tongue have been described in the dissection of the submaxillary region (p. 102). We have now to examine its intrinsic muscles. For this purpose the mucous membrane must be removed from the dorsum of the tongue. On dissection it will be found that the great bulk of the organ consists of fibres which proceed in a longitudinal direction, constituting the Unguales muscles. The superficial lingualis runs longitudinally beneath the mucous membrane of the dorsum ; its fibres are attached posteriorly to the hyoid bone and run forwards to the front and margin of the tongue. Posteriorly the muscle is thin and is covered by the fibres of the palato-glossus and hyo-giossus. The inferior lingualis is larger than the preceding, and is situated on the under aspect of the tongue between the genio-hyo- glossus and the hyo-glossus. It may be readily exposed by dis- secting the under surface of the tongue immediately on the outer aspect of the genio-hyo-glossus. It arises posteriorly from the hyoid bone and the substance of the tongue, and its fibres pass forwards to the tip of the tongue after being reinforced by fibres from the stylo-glossus. On its under aspect it is in relation with the ranine artery. The transverse fibres form a considerable part of the thickness of the tongue and arise from the fibrous septum. They pass out- wards between the superficial and inferior linguales, ascending as they near the sides of the tongue, where the fibres become con- tinuous with those of the palato-glossus. A considerable amount of fat is found among these fibres. The vertical fibres run in a curved direction, descending from the dorsum to the under aspect of the tongue, with the concavity outwards. They interlace with the transverse fibres and with the genio-hyo-glossus. On tracing the genio-hyo-glossi into the tongue, we find that some of their fibres ascend directly .to the surface ; others cross in s