150 SYMPATHETIC NERVE TN THE NECK. branches from the third cervical n. The nerve then crosses obliquely the occipital triangle, where it communicates with the second and third cervical nerves. It is eventually distributed to the under aspect of the trapezius, where it is joined by branches from the third and fourth cervical nerves. Hypoglossal This nerve arises, by from ten to fifteen filaments, Nebvk. from the groove between the anterior pyramid and the olivary body. It passes through the dura mater in two fasciculi, which emerge from the skull through the anterior condylar fora- men, land then unite to form a single nerve. It comes forward between the internal jugular vein and the internal carotid arter}', where it is intimately connected with the pneumogastric nerve. Its further course has been described (p. 103). In the anterior condylar foramen the hypoglossal gives off a small filament to the diploe and to the dura mater around the fora- men magnum. At the base of the skull it gives ofi" several branches, which connect it with the ganglion of the trunk of the pneumo- gastric nerve. These two nerves are sometimes almost inseparably united. It gives off also several delicate filaments to the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, and communicates with the loop formed by the first two spinal nerves in front of the atlas. Sysipathetic Now examine the cervical ganglia of the sym- Neuve. pathetic system of nerves. This system consists of a series of ganglia arranged on each side of the spine, from the first cervical to the last sacral vertebra. The successive ganglia of the same side are connected by intermediate nerves, so as to form a continuous cord on each side of the spine: this constitutes what is called the trunk of the sympathetic system, and is connected with all the spinal nerves. Its upper or cephalic extreinity enters the cranium through the carotid canal, surrounds the internal carotid artery, communicates with the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cranial nerves, and joins its fellow of the opposite side upon the anterior communicating artery.^ Its sacral extremity joins its fellow by means of the little ganrjlion impar, situated in the mesial line, upon the coccyx. The ganglia are connected together by branches composed of ' Here is situated the so-called ganglimi of Bibes.