BASE OF THE BlUIN. 742 perforatus anticus, and winds round the corpus callosum, keeping close to its upper surface. It curves round its posterior free border, and is continuous below with, the uncinate gyrus. Between this convolution and the corpus callosum is a well-marked furrow, which sometimes takes the name of the ventricle of the corpiw callosum. The part of the convolution that forms the boundary of this ventricle is termed the labium cerebri. The dentate convolution (^fascia clentata, fig. 178, dc) is the grey convolution lying in the dentate fissure, and takes its name from the notched appearance it presents, owing to the arrangement of the choroid arteries as they pass in through the fissure into the descending horn of the lateral ventricle. The uncinate gyruft (fig. 177, u) is the anterior part of the superior occipito-temporal convolution, which ends in a peculiar hook-like process at the front of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe. The inferior occijnto-temporal convolution (fig. 178, to^) is situated between the collateral and the inferior temporo-sphenoidal fissures, and runs backwards to the posterior border of the cerebrum. The marginal convolution skirts the longitudinal fissure from the locus perforatus anticus as far as the termination of the calloso- marginal fissure. It is frequently indented by secondary furrows, and usually is joined to the gyrus fornicatus. The island of Eeil, or the central lobe, lies deej)ly in the fissure of Sylvius, not far from its commencement. It is triangular in shape, the apex being close to the anterior perforated spot, and from it radiate outwards five or six short convolutions (gyri opevti)^ which are separated from the operculum by a deep fissure. In the normal position of the brain, it forms the floor of the lenticular nucleus of the corpus striatum. It appears very early in fcetal life, and is at first very prominent, but subsequently becomes closed in by the increasing development of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe. Nomenclature several objects seen at the base of the brain OF THE Paets at should now be examined, proceeding in order from THE Base or the front (fig. 170, p. 718). In this description THE Brain. ^j^^ cerebral nerves are omitted. These will be examined hereafter.