HAMSTRING MUSCLES. 670 fibres and also from the inner border of the tendon of the biceps for about three inches. The muscle passes downwards and inwards, and terminates in the middle of the thigh in a long round tendon, which rests upojj the semimembranosus, and is inserted into the upper part of the inner surface of the tibia by an expanded tendon, below the tendon of the gracilis, and behind that of the sartorius. Like them, it plays over the internal lateral ligament of the knee, and is provided with a bursa. Its nerve comes from the great sciatic. The semitendinosus sends off from the lower border of its tendon a very strong fascia to cover the leg, which is attached along the inner edge of the tibia. The middle of the muscle is usually intersected by an oblique tendinous line. Semimem- This muscle arises from the upper and outer BRANosus. facet on the back of the tuber ischii above and external to the two preceding, by means of a strong flat tendon, which extends nearly half-way down the thigh. This tendon de- scends obliquely under the biceps and semitendinosus, and termi- nates in a bulky muscle, which lies on a deeper plane, and more internal than the others, and is inserted by a thick tendon into the posterior and inner part of the internal tuberosity of the head of the tibia. In connection with the insertion of this tendon, notice, (1) that from its inner side a strong fasciculus is prolonged forwards under the internal lateral ligament of the knee, and that a bursa intervenes between them ; (2) that from its outer and posterior part it sends a strong prolongation upwards and outwards to the back part of the external condyle of the femur, forming the principal portion of the Ugamentum postiatm Winslowii, which covers the back of the knee-joint; (3) that a dense fascia proceeds from its lower border, and binds down the popliteus ; (4) that it is intimately connected with the semilunar cartilages of the joint, so as to keep them in place during its movements. Its nerve comes from the great sciatic. A great bursa is almost invariably found between the semi- membranosus and the inner head of the gastrocnemius, where they rub one against the other. It is generally from one and a hah" to two inches long. The chief point of intei-est concerning it is, that