MUSCLES OF THE BACK. 287 muscles form but a part of the multifidus spinas, and are supplied by the internal posterior branches of the dorsal nerves. The action of the preceding muscles is, not only to assist in maintaining the trunk erect, but to incline and rotate the spine to one or the other side. They are all supplied by the posterior branches of the spinal nerves. Levatobes These small muscles, twelve in number, on each CosT.uiCM. side, arise from the apices of the transverse pro- cesses of the seventh cervical and the eleven upper dorsal vertebra, and are inserted into the rib below. The direction of their fibi'es corresponds with that of the outer layer of the intercostal muscles, and they are supplied by the internal posterior branches of the dorsal nerves. They are muscles of inspiration. These are formed by a series of small muscular SuPRA-SPINAIiES. ,. , . . „ sups lying over the spmous processes or the cer- vical vertebras. Their nerves are derived from the internial posterior branches of the cervical nerves. These muscles extend between the spinous pro- Inteb-spinaies. „ ,, ^. ^ , „, cesses oi the contiguous vertebree. ihey are ar- ranged in pairs, and only exist in those parts of the vertebral column which are most moveable. In the cervical region, they are the most distinct, and pass between the spinous processes of the six lower cervical vertebra. In the dorsal, they are found between the spinous processes of the first and second, and between those of the eleventh and twelfth dorsal vertebras. They are also found more or less distinctly between the spinous processes of the lumbar vertebrfe. They are supplied by the internal posterior branches of the spinal nerves. Inter-trans- These muscles extend between the transverse TERSALEs. processBS of the vertebrae. In the cervical region they are seven in number, and are most marked, being arranged in pairs, and extend between the anterior and posterior tubercles of contiguous vertebrse. The anterior branch of the corresponding cervical nerve separates the two fasciculi. In the dorsal region these muscles in the upper part are represented by small round tendons, but in the three lower dorsal vertebrae they again become muscular in structure. In the lumbar region the muscular fasciculi