THE RIGHT AURICLE. 200 To see tlie interior, make a horizontal incision througli the anterior wall from the apex of the appendix transversely across the cavity: from this make another upwards at right angles into the superior vena cava. The interior is lined by a polished mem- brane called the endocardium, and is everywhere smooth except in the appendix, where the muscular fibres are collected into bun- dles, called, from their resemblance to the' teeth of a comb, musculi IJectinati. They radiate from the auricle to the edge of the auriculo- ventricular opening. The following objects are seen on opening the auricle:— Superior vena cava. Eustachian valve. Inferior vena cava. Coronary valve. Coronary sinus. Annulus ovalis. Auriculo-ventricular opening. Fossa ovalis. Foramina Thebesii. Tubercle of Lower. Musculi pectinati. Examine carefully the openings of the two vencn cavce: they are not directly opposite to each other; the superior cava opens into the auricle on a plane rather in front, and a little to the left, of the inferior, so that its orifice is opposite to the auriculo-ventri- cular opening. The inferior cava, after passing through the ten- dinous centre of the diaphragm, makes a slight curve to the left before it opens into the lowest part of the auricle; its direction is upwards and iiiwards, so that the stream of blood is directed towards the auricular septum. The orifice of each vena cava is nearly circular, and surrounded by circular muscular fibres continuous with those of the auricle. The posterior wall of the auricle is formed by the partition between the auricles, the septum auricidarum. Upon this septum, above, and to the left of the orifice of the vena cava inferior, is an oval depression (fossa ovalis), bounded by a prominent boi'der (annulus ovalis'). This depression indicates the remains' of the opening (foramen ovale) through which the blood in foetal life passed from the right into the left auricle. After birth this open- ing closes; but if the closure is imperfect, the stream of dark blood in the right auricle mixes with the florid blood in the left, and occasions what is called cyanosis. A valvular communication,