137 INFERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. Observe that all the branches of the internal maxillary artery in the first and third parts of its course traverse bony canals ; while the branches in the second part go directly to muscles. The intemal maxillarij vein is formed by the veins correspond- ing to the branches of the artery. As the vein lies between the Pterygoid temporal and external pterygoid muscles it forms Plexus of Veins, a plexus—pterijrjoid 'plexus—which communicates, above, with the cavernous sinus by branches which come through the foramina at the base of the skull; in front it communicates with the facial vein. It joins the temporal in the substance of the parotid gland, and thus communicates with the external jugular vein. Inferior Max- This great nerve is the largest of the three iLLAEY Nebve dlvlsious of the fifth cerebral nerve. It differs AND Branches. from the other two divisions, i.e. the ophthalmic and the superior-maxillary, in that it contains motor as well as sensory filaments; the motor being furnished by the small non- ganglionic root of the fifth nerve. It is necessary to remember this point of its physiology, in order to understand its extensive distribution; for the sensory portion supplies the j)arts to which it is distiibuted with common sensation only, whilst the motor portion supplies all the muscles concerned in mastication. The nerve, composed of sensory and motor filaments, emerges from the skull through the foramen ovale as a thick trunk, under the name of the inferior maxillary. It lies directly external to the Eustachian tube, and is covered by the external pterygoid muscle, which must be turned on one side to expose it. Immediately after its exit from the skull, the nerve divides into two parts, an anterior, or motor division, and a posterior or sensory division. From the anterior portion (chiefly motor) are derived branches distributed to the muscles of mastication and the buccal nerve. From the posterior (mainly sensory) come the following branches : the auriculo-temporal, gustatory, and inferior dental; there are also motor branches to the mylo-hyoid and anterior belly of the digastricus. This apparent anomaly will be presently explained.