LEFT COMMON CAROTID ARTERY. 83 must be drawn outwards, and the rauscle at tlie same time relaxed by turning the head to the same side. The sheath of the vessel is then exposed, and a small opening is to be made on its inner side large enough to admit the aneurism needle, which should be passed round the artery on its outer side, so as to avoid wounding the in- ternal jugular vein. The vessel is then to be ligatured, care being taken not to separate more of the sheath than is necessary from the artery, and not to include in the ligature the pneumogastric or descendens noni nerves. After ligation of the artery, the collateral circulation is main- tained by the following vessels : between the branches of the external and internal carotid arteries of the opposite side with the corresponding branches of the ligatured side ; between the verte- bral and the posterior communicating of the same side; between the inferior and superior thyroids of the same side; between the profunda cervicis and the princeps cervicis of the occipital of the same side. wTT.-r T,T- tlie first part of its course the left carotid sPECTs THE Left differs from the right in the following particulars : Cabotid diffebs 1. It arises from the arch of the aorta, is there- FEOM THE Eight. ^^^^ longer and deeper seated than the right, and is covered by the first bone of the sternum. 2. It is crossed by the left brachio-cephalic vein. 3. It is in close relation with the oesophagus and the trachea. 4. It is in close relation with the left recurrent laryngeal nerve. 5. It is in close relation posteriorly with the thoracic duct. 6. It is covered by the thymus gland in early life. The artery has in front the sternum, the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, the left innominate vein, and the remains of the thymus gland; to the left side it has the left subclavian artery and the left pneumogastric nerve; to the right side the arteria innominata; and behind, the trachea, oesophagus, and thoracic duct. The common carotid as a rule gives off no branch in its course ; but, occasionally, the middle sterno-mastoid, the superior thyroid, or, more rarely, the vertebral, arise from it prior to its division. o 2