274 MEATUSES or THE NOSE. meatuses—of unequal size ; and in these are orifices leading to air- cells—sinuses—in the sphenoid, ethmoid, frontal, and superior maxillary bones. Each of these compartments should be separately examined. a. The superior meatus is the smallest of the three, and does not extend beyond the posterior half of the wall of the nose. The posterior ethmoidal and sphenoidal cells open into it. The spheno- palatine foramen is covered by the mucous membrane, and is pos- terior to the meatus. h. The middle meatus is larger than the superior. At its an- terior part a long narrow passage (infundihulimi), nearly hidden by a fold of membrane, leads upwards to the frontal and the anterior ethmoidal cells. About the middle a small opening leads into the antrum of the superior maxilla: this opening in the dry bone is large and irregular, but in the recent state it is reduced nearly to the size of a crow-quill by mucous membrane, so that a very little swelling of the membrane is sufficient to close the orifice entirely. Notice that the orifices of the frontal and ethmoid cells are so disposed that their secretion will pass easily into the nose. But this is not the case with the maxillary cells, to empty which the head must be inclined on one side. To see all these openings the respective turbinated bones must be raised. c. The inferior meatus extends nearly along the whole leng-th of the outer wall of the nose. By raising the lower turbinated borie, we observe, towards the front of the meatus, the termination of the nasal duct, through which the tears pass down from the lachrymal sac into the nose. This sac and duct can now be conveniently examined. LACHRyii.\L Sac The lachrymal sac and nasal duct constitute the AND Nasal Duct. passage through which the tears are conveyed from the canaliculi into the nose (p. 33). The lachrymal sac occupies the groove formed by the lachrymal bone and the nasal process of the superior maxilla. The upper end is round and closed; the lower gradually contracts into the nasal duct, and opens into' the inferior meatus. The sac is composed of a strong fibrous and elastic tissue, which adheres very closely to the bone, and is lined by