36 BUCCINATOR. Levator This muscle, wliicli is covered by tlie levator Anguli Oris. labii superioris, arises from the canine fossa of the superior mazilla, below the infra-orbital foramen, and is inserted into the angle of the mouth, superficial to the buccinator, its fibres blending with those of the orbicularis oris, the zygomatici, and the depressor anguli oris. Buccinator buccinator aiises from the outer surface of the alveolar borders of the upper and lower jaws corresponding to the molar teeth, and behind from the pterjgo- maxillary ligament. The fibres pass forwards and converge, to be inserted into the angle of the mouth and the muscular structure of the lips ; the central fibres decussate, while the upper fibres pass to the upper lip, and the lower fibres pass to the lower lip. The muscle is covered on its inner aspect by the mucous membrane of the cheek, and on its outer by a thin fascia which passes backwards, and is continuous with that covering the pharynx. The buccinator is the principal muscle of the cheek. It forms with the superior constrictor of tlie pharj^-nx a continuous muscular wall for the side of the mouth and pharynx. The bond of connec- tion between the buccinator and the superior constrictor is a ten- dinous band, the ptertjijo-maxillarij ligament. This ligament (see diagram) extends from the hamular process vertically to the poste- rior extremity of the mylo-hyoid ridge of the lower jaw near the last molar tooth. It is simply a fibrous intersection between the two muscles. The duct of the parotid gland pierces the buccinator obliquely, and opens into the mouth opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw. The chief use of the buccinator is to keep the food between the teeth during mastication. It can also widen the mouth. Its power of expelling air from the mouth, as in whistling or playing on a wind instrument, has given rise to its peculiar name. It is supplied by the facial nerve, and is, therefore, afiected in facial paralysis. The buccinator is in relation, externally and behind, with a large amount of buccal fat, with the masseter and temporal muscles ; in front with the risorius, the levator anguli oris, depressor anguli