569 STRUCTURE OF THE UTERUS. with tlie apex towai'ds tlie cervix. In a virgin uterus tlie cavity- is very small, and its sides are convex; but in a uterus which has borne many children, the ca^aty has lost the convexity of its sides, and has increased in capacity. Each angle at the base is some- what prolonged, and leads to the minute opening of the Fallopian ube. This prolongation of the angles is noticed more or less in iliflferent females, and is the last indication of the two horns of the uterus in some orders of mammalia. The interior of the uterus is smooth at the fundus; but the rreverse at the. cervix. Here there is a central longitudinal ridge, ! both in front and behind (as in the vagina); from these, other closely set oblique ridges curve olf laterally, like the branches of a palm-tree, called arbor vitce iiterina. The roughness produced by these ridges occasions an impression as though we were touching cartilage when a sound is introduced into the uterus. The neclv of the uterus is provided with small muciparous glands, of which the minute ducts open in the furrows between the ridges referred to. The secretion of these glands is glairy, albuminous, and slightly alkaline. Soon after impregnation, the secretion becomes so firm as to plug the mouth of the uterus, but shortly before and during parturition it is poured out in great quantity, to facilitate the passage of the child. It happens occa- sionally that one or more of the ducts of these glands becomes obstructed, and then dilate into small transparent vesicles, which L gradually rise to the surface and burst.^ The walls of the uterus consist of an outer serous coat derived ■ from the peritoneum, an inner mucous lining, and an intermediate layer of unstriped muscular tissue. The serous coat has been already described. The muscular coat forms the greater part of the thickness of the walls of the uterus, and consists of non-striped or involuntary muscular fibres, chiefly aggregated at the fundus, less so at the junction of the Fallopian tubes. The texture of these fibres is very close, and interwoven together with blood-vessels, nerves, lymphatics, and connective tissue; so that in the unimpregnated ' These were first described by Naboth, and supposed to be true ova: lieuce . their name, dviila Nahotlii. (De Slerilitale Mulicrum. Lips., 1707.)