STRUCTURf; OF THE UTERUS. 568 into the vagina more than the front; but this arises from the vagina being attached higher up posteriorly. If the vagina were cut away from the cervix, the anterior lip of the uterus would appear to project a trifle more than the posterior. For this reason, as well as on account of the natural slope forwards of the uterus, the front lip is felt first in an examination per vaginam.' The length, however, and the general appearance of the vaginal part of the cervix vary according to the ag-e; it is also consider- ably altered by parturition. In the adult virgin it is smooth and round, and projects about half an inch; its mouth is a small transverse fissure. But after parturition it loses its plumpness, the lips become flaccid and fissured, and the mouth larger than it was before.^ The uterus must now be laid open by a longitudinal incision, to examine its interior. In doing so, observe the thickness of its walls, which is greatesb towards the fundus. Before coming into the proper cavity in the body of the uterus, slit up a long narrow canal which leads up into it through the neck. This canal, which is about an inch in length, is not of the same dimensions through- out : it is dilated in the middle, and gradually narrows towards each end. The upper end which leads into the body of the uterus, is called os internum; the lower end, which leads into the vagina, OS externum. The passage is called the canal of the cervix. It remains unchanged in pregnancy for some time after the cavity in the body has expanded, but gradually disappears with the increas- ing size of the embiyo. The shape of the cavity in the body of the uterus is triangular, ' This is the only way to reconcile the discrepancies one meets mth in anatomical works, respecting the comparative length of the lips of the uterus. Krause, Weber, Busch, and others, say the anterior is the longer ; Mayer, Meckel, Quain, and others, the posterior. = Instances are recorded in which the neck of the uterus is pretematurally long. It has been known to project even as much as an inch and a half into the vagma. In such cases it gradually tapers, and terminates in a very narrow mouth. This is said to be one cause of sterility, and it is recommended either to dilate the mouth, or to cut ofi a portion of the neck. In support of this opinion, it is stated that Dupuytren was once consulted by a lady on account of barrenness: finding the neck of the uterus unusually elongated, he removed a portion of it, and shortly the lady became pregnant. (Hyi-tl, Handbtich dor top. Anatom.)