LEFT COMMON CAROTID ARTERY. 179 from an aneurism of the aorta—1. By a pulsation in tlie neck between the sterno-mastoid muscles, i.e. in the fossa above the sternum; 2. By occasional dyspnoea owing to jDressiire on the trachea; 3. By venous congestion in the left arm; 4. By the aneurismal thrill being confined to the ritjht arm.' Left Common This artery arises from the arch of the aorta, Caeotid Abteey. close to, and to the left of, the arteria innominata. It ascends obliquely to the left sterno-clavicular joint, and thence to the neck, where its course nearly corresponds with the right common carotid (p. 81). In front, it has the sternum, the left sterno-hyoid and thyroid muscles, the left brachio-cephalic vein, and the remains of the thymus gland; behind, it has at first the trachea, and higher up the oesophagus and thoracic duct; to the right side, is the innominate artery; to the left side, are the left subclavian artery and left pneumogastric nerve. Left Subcla- This is the third branch of the transverse part VLVN Aktery. of the arch, and arises from it opposite the third dorsal vertebra. It ascends nearly vertically out of the chest to the inner border of the first rib, and then curves outwards behind the scalenus anticus. In front, it has the lung covered with pleura, the pneumogastric, phrenic and cardiac nerves, the left common carotid, the left internal jugular and the left innominate veins, the sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and sterno-mastoid anuscles. To its right side, are the left carotid, oesophagus, and trachea; between the artery and the oesophagus is the thoracic duct; to its left side, is the lung covered with pleura; behind it, are the longus colli muscle covering the vertebrae, the oesophagus, thoracic duct, and the inferior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. The upper part of its course, where the vessel passes in front of the apex of the lung, has been described with the anatomy of the neck (p. 115). ' If the innominate artery be ligatured, the circulation would be maintained by the following collateral branches:—1. Between the branches of the two exter- nal carotids, which anastomose across the middle line. 2. Between the aortic intercostal and the superior intercostal. 3. Between the aortic intercostals and the internal mammary, long thoracic, alar thoracic, and subscapular arteries. 4. Between the internal mammary and deep epigastric. 5. Between the inferior thyroid arteries. 6. Between the two vertebrals. 7. Between the two internal carotid arteries. N 3