194 PULMONARY ARTERY. Bbokchial AKD Small 5ro9ic7itaZ arteries, arising on the right (Esophageal side most frequently from the first aortic inter- Arteries. costal (third intercostal) artery, and on the left Prom the thoracic aorta, accompany the bronchial tube on its posterior aspect into the substance of the lung.' Their distribu- tion and office will be considered with the anatomy of the lung. G<Jsophaf/eal arteries, four or five in number, proceed from the front of the thoracic aorta to ramify on the oesophagus, where they inosculate above with the oesophageal branches of the inferior thyroid, and below with the (Esophageal branches of the coron- aria ventriculi and phrenic arteries. Small fosterior mediastinal arteries are given off from the posterior part of the aorta, and supply the lymphatic glands and tissues of the posterior media- stinum. Having finished the posterior mediastinum, replace the lung, and turn jonv attention once more to the great vessels at the root of the heart. Pulmonary This vessel is about two inches in length, and Artery. conveys the venous blood from the heart to the lungs. It proceeds from the upper part of the base of the right ventricle, and passes upwards and backwards along the left side of the aorta to the concavity of the arch of the aorta, where it divides into two branches, a right and a left, one for each lung. At its origin it has on each side an auricular appendix and a coronary artery, and lies in front of the root of the aorta. The pulmonarj^ artery and the aorta are surrounded for two inches hy a common sheath of pericardium. The right branch, the larger and longer, passes horizontally below the arch of the aorta, behind the ascending aorta and the superior vena cava, to the root of its lung; the left is easily followed to its lung by removing the layer of pericardium investing it, when it will be found to pass hori- zontally in front of the descending aorta and the left bronchus to the root of the left lung. Search should be made for a short fibrous cord which connects ' On the left side there are usually two bronchial arteries—a superior, arising from the highest part of the thoracic aorta, and an inferior, arising about an inch lower down. t