521 DISSECTION OF THE FEMALE PERINEUM. be felt only through the rectum. Nothiug can be seen outside. Perhaps nothing more than a little hardness can be felt by the side of the anus. These abscesses should be opened early; else they form a large cavity, and may burst into the rectum, and result in a fistula. DISSECTION OF THE FEMALE PEEINEUM. The imdenda in the female consist of folds of the integument, called the labia. Between these is a longitudinal fissure which leads to the orifices of the urinary and genital canals. The pubic region is generally surmounted by an Labia Majoka. , ^. nr., ■\^ -i tt ■ i-i accumulation oi lat, called mons Veneris, which is covered with hair. From this, two thick folds of skin descend, one on either side, constituting the labia majora, and gradually diminish in thickness towards the perineum. Their junction, about an inch above the anus, is called the ]^osterior commissure, ov frcenulum labiorum, within which is a transverse crescentic fold, the fourchette: it is generally torn in the first labour. Between the fourchette and the posterior commissure is an oval depression, called the fossa navicularis. The inner layer of the skin of the labium is thinner, softer, and more like mucous membrane than the outer; for this reason, whenever pus forms in the labium, the abscess bursts on the inner side. Where the labia are in contact, they are provided with small sebaceous glands, of which the minute ducts are observable on the surface. They are the analogues of the scrotum in the male, and occasionally contain extruded ovaries, forming a hernia of the ovary.^ In form and structure the clitoris resembles the Clitokis. . ,. . . , , . . , penis on a diminutive scale, being about an inch and a half long. It has, however, no corpus spongiosum, or urethra. Like the penis, it is attached to the sides of the pubic arch by two crura (fig. 124, p. 524), each of which is grasped by its special eredm^ clitoridis. The crura are continued forward like ' See paper on ' Hernia of the Ovary,' St. Bartliolomew's Hospital Reports, vol. xviii.