G4. PLATYSMA MYOIDES. sions ; the posterior one, it will be seen, lias its base at the clavicle, the anterior one at the lower jaw. The posterior triangle has the trapezius as its outer boundaiy, but this border is only well defined inferiorly, where the hollow becomes most marked, and takes the name of the supra-clavicular or Mohrenheim's fossa. In this is placed deeply the subcla-sdan artery, the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid, and the brachial plexus. In front of the sterno- mastoid is another triangular hollow space with its base upwards; this is called the carotid triangle, for in it lies the carotid artery immediatelj'' beneath the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid. The body of the hyoid bone can always be felt in the middle line below the symphysis of the lower jaw. About a finger's breadth below the hyoid is the prominent pomum Adami of the thyroid cartilage, and a short distance below this cartilage is the cricoid, separated from the cartilage above by the crico-thyroid membrane. The cricoid cartilage corresponds with the fifth cervical vertebra, and from it the trachea passes down, gradually receding from the surface, so that there is, especially in emaciated subjects, a deep hollow—fonticulus gutturis—immediately above the" sternum. In front of the second, third, and fourth rings of the trachea is the isthmus of the thyroid gland, and there are usually another four rings below these above the sternum, covered more or less by the depressor muscles of the os hyoides. The head must be slightly raised, and the face Dissection. turned from the side on which the dissection is to be made. Then make a vertical incision through the skin, down the middle of the neck from the symphysis of the lower jaw to the sternum; a second along the clavicle to 'the acromion; a third along the base of the jaw as far as the mastoid process. Reflect the skin and subcutaneous fat, and expose the cutaneous muscle, called the 'platiisma myoides. Between the platysma and the skin is a layer of adipose tissue, called the superficial fascia. It varies in thickness in different subjects, but is generally more abundant at the upper part of the neck, especially in corpulent individuals, in whom it occasions a double chin. PiATYSMA '^^^ platysma myoides is the thin cutaneous Myoides. muscle covering the front and side of the neck.