416 SYNOVIAL MEMBBANES OF THE WRIST, sides of the os magnum and tlie os unciforme, descend vertically, and are fixed into the radial side of the metacarpal bone of the middle and ring fingers (fig. 95). This ligament occasionally isolates the synovial membrane of the two inner metacarpal bones from the common synovial membrane of the carpus. Separate the metacarpal bones from the carpus, and observe the relative form of their contiguous surfaces. The metacarpal bones of the fore and middle fingers are adapted to the carpus in such an angular manner as to be almost immoveable. The meta- carpal bone of the ring finger, having a plane articular surface with the unciform bone, admits of more motion. Still greater motion is permitted between the unciform and the metacarpal bone of the little finger, the articular surfaces of each being slightly concave and convex in opposite directions. The greater freedom of motion of the metacarpal bone of the little finger is essential to the expansion and contraction of the palm. The car_pal extremities of the metacarpal bones of the fingers are connected with each other by palmar and dorsal transverse liga- ments. They are also connected by interosseous ligaments, which extend between the bones, immediately below their contiguous cartilaginous surfaces. The distal extremities of these bones are loosely connected on their palmar aspect by the transverse metacarpal ligament. Synovial Mem- There are five, sometimes six, distinct synovial HRANEs OF THE membraues, proper to the lower end of the radius, Weist. and the several bones of the carpus (see the diagram, p. 412) as follows:— a. One between the lower end of the radius and the ulna. h. One between the radius and the first row of carpal bones. c. One between the trapezium and the metacarpal bone of the thumb. d. One between the cuneiform and pisiform bones. e. One between the first and second rows of carpal bones (the intercarpal joint). This extends to the metacarpal bones of the four inner fingers. The interosseous ligament between the os magnum and ring finger occasionally shuts off the synovial membrane between the