769 CORPORA QUADRIGEMINA. of Monro; after covering the walls of the third ventricle it lines the aqueduct of Syhaus to pass to the fourth ventricle. Pineal Body The pmeal body (conarium) is a very vascular OK Gland. oval body, situated immediately in front of the corpora quadrigemina (fig. 189). 11; is about the size of a cherry- stone, and is firmly connected with the under surface of the velum, and is apt to be separated from its normal position when that membrane is reflected. It is connected to the cerebrum by two white crura, the peduncles of the pineal body, which extend for- wards, one on the inner side of each optic thalamus along their upper margin, and terminate by joining the anterior crura of the fornix. The peduncles join together behind in front of the pineal body, and are connected with the front of the posterior commissure. The piineal body consists of numerous small follicles filled with cells, which are separated by connective tissue; so that in struc- ture it much resembles that of the anterior lobe of the pituitary body. In its interior it contains, besides some viscid fluid, more or less gritty particles (acervidus cerebri), consisting of phosphate and carbonate of lime and j)hosphate of magnesia and ammonia. Be- sides the calcareous particles, these follicles contain corpora amy- lacea; and, when abundant, this sabulous matter is found on the peduncles of the pineal body. The pineal body is larger in the female than in the male subject, and is largest of all in the child. It is found in all mammalia, birds, and reptiles, in the same typical position, but its functions are entirely unknown. CoBPOBA Qua- The corpora qitadrigemina are four round emi- ! DBiGEMiNA. ueuces, situated two on each side, behind the pineal body, and are separated from each other by a crucial depres- : sion. Though white on their surface, they contain grey matter in 1 their interior for the purpose of giving origin to the optic tract. J Laterally, they are continued outwards as two convex white cords, the anterior and posterior bracliia. The anterior brachium passes between the corpora geniculata, and is continued on into the optic tract, of which it may be considered its direct root: the posterior 1 brachium passes forwards and outwards, and is lost beneath the 3 D