VESSELS AND NERVES OF THE LARYNX. 251 Crico-arytenoidei laterales . Draw together the arytenoid ^ ■ •1 I CiOS6 uXl6 cartilages r Arytenoideus . . . Ditto ditto ditto J 8 o is. Aryteno-epiglottidei . . Contract the upper opening of the larynx. The epiglottis is connected by muscles with the arytenoid and thyroid cartilages: they are the thyro-epiglottideus, the aryteno- epiglottideus superior and inferior. The thyro-epiglottideus is a thin muscle, arising from the angle of the thyroid cartilage just above the thyro-arytenoideus, and is inserted by diverging fibres into the border of the epiglottis and into the aryteno-epiglottic fold. The art/teno-epiglottideiis superior passes as thin muscular fibres from the tip of the arytenoid cartilage to the mucous membrane attached to the side of the epiglottis. The art/teno-epiglottideus inferior, separated from the preceding by a distant interval, arises from the anterior surface of the ary- tenoid cartilage, and is inserted into the upper and inner part of the epiglottis. This muscle is also called the compressor sacctdi larijngis of Hilton.' The hlood-vessels of the larynx are derived from the superior and infenor thyroid arteries. The laryngeal branch of the superior thyroid passes through the thyro-hyoid membrane with the corresponding nerve, and divides into branches, which supply the muscles and the mucous membrane. The laryngeal branches of the inferior thyroid ascend behind the cricoid cartilage. A constant little artery passes through the crico-thyroid membrane. The nerves of the larynx are the superior and inferior (recurrent) laryngeal branches of the pneumogastric. The superior laryngeal, having passed through the thyro-hyoid membrane, divides into branches, distributed to the mucous mem- brane of the larynx. Its filaments spread out in various directions : some to the anterior and posterior surfaces of the epiglottis, and to the aryteno-epiglottidean folds, others to the interior of the larynx and the vocal cords. A constant filament descends behind the ala ' The triticeo-glosstis is a small muscle frequently present: it arises from the cartilago triticea, and passing forwards and upwards joins the cerato-glossus to be inserted into the tongue.