298 LIGAMENTS BETWEEN OCCIPITAL BONE AND ATLAS. mentous fibres, forming a capsular ligament which is longest in the cervical vertebi'ae, thus allowing free movement in this region. The surfaces of the bones are crusted with cartilage. Intehtiians- These are thin bands of fibres which pass be- VERSE Ligaments, tween the transverse processes of the vertebrae. They are rudimentary in the cervical region, and are sometimes absent. MovEjfENTs OP Though but little movement is permitted be- THE Spine. tween any two vertebras (the atlas and axis ex- cepted), yet the collective motion between them all is considerable. The spine can be bent forwards, backwards, or on either side ; it also admits of slight rotation. In consequence of the elasticity of the intervertebral cartilages and the ligamenta subflava, it returns spontaneously to its natural curve of rest like an elastic bow. Its mobility is greatest in the cervical region, on account of the thick- ness of the fibro-cartilages, the small size of the vertebras, the oblique direction of their articulations, and, above all, the horizontal position and the shortness of their spines. In the dorsal region there is very little mobility, on account of the vertical direction of the articular processes, and the manner in which the arches and the spines overlap each other. In the lumbar region, the spine again becomes more moveable, on account of the thickness of the intervertebral cartilages, and the horizontal direction of the sjDinous processes. Ligaments be occiput is connected to the atlas by the TWEEN THE Occipi- followiug Hgameuts : viz. two anterior occipito- TAL Bone and atloid, a posterior occiiDito-atloid, two lateral THE Atlas. occipito-atloid, and two capsular ligaments. The two anterior ligaments are composed of a superficial and a deep portion ; the superficial part is a strong rounded cord which passes from the basilar process above, to the tubercle on the ante- rior arch of the atlas below ; the deep portion is membranous, and passes from the anterior margin of the foramen magnum to the front arch of the atlas. The posterior ligament extends in a similar manner from the posterior border of the foramen magnum to the posterior arch of the atlas. It is thin, and superiorly becomes blended with the