703 ' LIGAMENTS OF THE KNEE-JOINT. obturator nerve (p. 643). This ligament not only closes and protects the joint behind, but prevents its extension beyond the perpendicular. Capsular The capsular ligament occupies the intervals Ligament. between the other ligaments, and so completes the fibrous investment of the joint. It is materially strengthened by fibrous expansions from many of the tendons in connection with the articulation. The joint should be opened above the patella. Observe the great extent of the fold which the synovial membrane forms above this bone.^ It allows the free play of the bone over the lower part of the femur. The fold extends higher above the inner than the outer condyle, which accounts for the form of the swelling produced by efiusion into the joint. Cktjciai, The crucial ligaments, so named because they Ligaments. cross like the letter X, extend from the mesial side of each condyle to the head of the tibia. The antenor or external ligament, the smaller, ascends from the inner part of the fossa in front of the spine of the tibia, backwards and outwards to the inner and back part of the external condyle. It is attached to the tibia close to the anterior termination of the external semilunar cartilage. The posterior or internal ligament, best seen from behind, ex- tends from the back of the fossa behind the spine of the tibia, and from the posterior termination of the external semilunar cartilage, upwards, forwards, and inwards to the front of the inner condyle. The direction of this ligament is more vertical than the anterior one. Interarticu- Between the condyles and the articular surfaces lAR OR Semi- of the tibia are two incomplete rings of fibro- LUNAB FiBRo- Cartilage, shaped like the letter C. They serve cartilages. deepen the articular surfaces of the tibia; their mobility and flexibility enable them to adapt themselves to the condyles in the several movements of the joint; they distribute pressure over a greater surface and break shocks. They are ' In performing operations near the knee, the joint should always be bent, in order to draw the synovial fold as much as possible out of the way.