588 STRUCTURE OF THE SPLEEN. pulp, and their lymphoid walls alter in character, presenting numerous branched processes which communicate with the branched cells of the sustentacular tissue. Through this connection they pour their blood directly into the pulp tissue, and thus into relation with the constituents of the pulp tissue, by which means it is sub- jected to important changes. The veins commence in the pulp tissue in the same way as the arteries, and are at first formed by the arrangement into rows of the connective-tissue corpuscles, which subsequently become spindle-shaped and overlap each other, so constituting a variety of endothelial lining to the venous passages. Assuming more the ordinary character of veins, they travel along the trabeculae like the arteries, but do not accompany them, and freely communicate with each other, and so far are unlike the arteries. The small veins present transverse lines or markings, caused by the encircling elastic fibres around the vessels of the sus- tentacular tissue of the spleen. After entering the trabecular tissue which forms sheaths for the veins, they gradually join and form four to six large veins, which leave the hilum to constitute the splenic vein. The hjiwpliatics of the spleen are arranged in two sets—a trahe- cular and a perivascular : the former originate in the trabeculee, and are connected with the lymphatics beneath the cajjsule; the latter arise in the lymphoid tissue around the arteries, and subsequently run one on each side of the arteries, anastomosing frequently by transverse branches. The trabecular and perivascular lymphatics join at the hilum, and run between the layers of the gastro-splenic omentum to the lymphatic glands. The 7ierves come from the solar plexus and the right pueumo- gastric nerve. The function of the spleen appears to be that of a great blood- gland, and thus concerned in the development of white corpuscles; for the blood which is conveyed from the spleen contains a large excess of white corpuscles. The large number of red blood-cor- puscles, in various stages of disintegration, also points to another use of the spleen as the gland for the degeneration of red blood- cells into pigment, which is conveyed through the spleen to tbe liver to be used in the secretion of the bile. It is also presumed