313 BOUNDAIUES OF THE AXILLA. as it would occasion much haemorrliage if wounded in opening an abscess. Dissection .«cd Reflect the axillary fascia, to display the Contents of the boundaries and the contents of the axilla. The dissection of this space is difficult, and must be done cautiously. Bear in mind that the trunk blood-vessels and nerves run through the upper and outer part of the axilla; that the long thoracic artery runs along the anterior border, and the subscapular artery along the posterior. Commence dissecting, therefore, in the middle; break down with the handle of the scalpel the loose connective tissue, fat, and lymphatic glands, which occupy the cavity. You will soon discover some cutaneous nerves coming out between the ribs, and then crossing the axillary space. These nerves are the posterior lateral cutaneous branches of the intercostal nerves; they perforate the intercostal spaces be- tween the digitations of the serratus magnus, midway between the sternum and the spine, and divide into anterior and posterior branches. The anterior turn over the pectoralis major, to supply the skin on the front of the chest and the mammary gland. The posterior' pass backwards over the latissimus dorsi, and are distri- buted to the skin covering this muscle and the scapula. Intercosto- The posterior lateral branch of the second inter- HCMEBAii Nertos. costal uervB requires a special description. It is larger than the others, and is called the intercosto-humeral because it supplies the integuments of the arm. It comes through the second intercostal space, traverses the upper part of the axilla, where it receives a branch of the lesser internal cutaneous nerve (nerve of Wrisberg), and, piercing the fascia, terminates in fila- ments, which are distributed to the skin on the inner side and back of the arm, as low as the internal condyle. The correspond- ing branch of the third intercostal is also an intercosto-humeral nerve. It receives a branch from the second, and runs a similar course. The distribution of these nerves accounts for the pain down the arm which is sometimes experienced in pleurisy. Boundaries op The axilla is a conical space, of which the apex THE Axilla. jg beneath the clavicle, and the base between the pectoralis major and the latissimus dorsi. Obviously it varies in