167 POSITION OF THE HEART. The constituents of tlie root of tlie lung will be described hereafter when they can be more satisfactorily displayed. Prz-ecordlvl The precordial region is the outline of the Eegion. heart traced upon the front wall of the chest. It is important for auscultatoiy purposes that we should know how much of the heart is covered anjl separated from the wall of the chest by intervening lung (fig. 40). The following will give a fair indication:—' Make a circle of two inches in diameter round a point midway, between the nipple and the end of the sternum. This circle will define, sufficiently for all practical purposes, that part of the heart which lies immediately behind the wall of the chest, and is not covered by lung or pleura.' • This part of the prtecordial region is naturally less resonant to percussion, for it is here uncovered, except by pericardium and loose connective tissue, and lies close behind the thoracic wall. In the rest of the prtecordial region the heart is covered and separated from the chest wall by intervening lung. Where should we put the stethoscope when we listen to the valves of the heart ? For practical purposes it is enough to remember that the mouth of an ordinary-sized stethoscope will cover a portion of them all, if it be placed a little to the left of the mesial line of the sternum opposite the third intercostal space (fig. 40, p. 164). They are all covered by a thin portion of lung; for this reason we ask a patient to stop breathing while we listen to his heart. Position and The heart is situated obliquely in the chest, Form of the between the lungs. Its base, i.e. the part by which it is attached, and from which its great vessels proceed, is directed upwards towards the right shoulder ; its apex points downwards and to the left, between the fifth and sixth costal cartilages. It is supported, towards the abdomen, by the tendinous centre of the diaphragm. It is maintained in its posi- tion by a membranous bag termed the pericardium, which is lined by a serous membrane to facilitate its movements. The pericar- dium must first claim our attention. ' Latham's Clinical Lectures.