VENA PORT.E. 469 curve, another along its greater; from tliese, numerous branches are furnislied to both surfaces of the stomach. The artery of the greater curve also sends down numerous omental branches, which form a network between the layers of the great omentum. The vein corresponding to the coronaria ventriculi artery, called the coronarij, commences close to the pylorus, runs along the lesser curve of the stomach as far as the oesophagus, and then descending to the right, between the two layers of the gastro-hepatic omentum opens into the vena portte.^ The splemc vein returns the blood from the spleen by five or six branches which unite to form a single trunk. This runs along the upper border of the pancreas below the artery, and after re- ceiving the branches corresponding to the branches of the artery and the inferior mesenteric vein, joins the superior mesenteric vein to form the vena portae. The liejMtiG veins do not run with the hepatic artery, but return the blood from the liver and terminate in the vena portse. VENAPoBTiE: The veins which return the blood from the ITS Peculiakities. abdominal portion of the alimentary canal, the pancreas, and the spleen, do not empty themselves into the vena cava inferior, but all unite into one large vein, called the vena 2)ortce, which ramifies throughout the liver, and secretes the bile. The trunk of the vena port^ itself is about three inches long. Tracing it downwards, you find that it is formed behind the great end of the pancreas and in front of the inferior cava, by the con- fluence of the splenic and superior mesenteric veins (fig. 110). In its passage to the liver, the vena portae is accompanied by the hepatic artery and the common bile-duct, lying behind and between them. At the transverse fissure of the liver it presents a slight enlargement, called the sinus, and then divides into two branches corresponding to the right and left lobes. The vein ramifies in the substance of the liver like an artery, and is surrounded, with the branches of the hepatic artery, and duct, in a sheath of areolar hepatic tissue called Glisson's capsule. The vena portse may, then, be compared to the stem of a tree, of which the roots arise in the digestive organs, and the branches spread out in the liver. After ' See Walsham in the Jotcriial of Anatomy and Physiology, vol. xiv. p. 399.