POSTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY AND NERVE. 682 muscles, to the latter especially, it sends numerous branches, and ju.st above the ankle it gives off a constant one—the anterior peroneal- whicli passes through the interosseous membrane to the under aspect of the peroneus tertius, tlien runs in front of tlie inferior tibio-fibular articulation, and inosculates with the other malleolar and tarsal arteries. The peroneal supplies the nutrient artery of the fibula. c. The communicatiny artery passes transversely across the inter- osseous membrane about an inch above the os calcis. It runs under the tendon of the flexor longus hallucis, and anastomoses with the peroneal artery. d. The internal calcanean arteries, several in number, run down, ramifying over the posterior and imier aspect of the tendo Achillis and OS calcis : tliey anastomose with the internal malleolar and peroneal arteries. e. The nrctrient artery to the tibia enters the bone about an inch below the ol)lique line, the foramen through which it passes being directed away from the knee-joint. The iiostarior tibial veins, formed by the junction of the external and internal plantar veins, accompany the artery as vence comites, and, after receiving the peroneal veins, join with the veins corre- sjDonding to the anterior tibial artery, at the lower border of the popliteus, to form the popliteal vein. Posterior This is the continuation of the popliteal. It Tibiaij Nerve. descends close to its corresponding artery, and, behind the inner ankle, divides into the external and internal plantar nerves. In the first part of its course the nerve lies super- ficial to the artery, and rather to its inner side; but lower down the nerve crosses the artery, and passes to its outer side, and lies to the inner border of the tendo Achillis. It supplies branches to the three deep-seated muscles, the branch to the flexor longus hallucis accompanying the peroneal artery; and a cutaneous branch —calcaneo-plantar—which pierces the internal annular ligament, and supplies the skin of the heel and the inner side of the sole of the foot.