LENTICULAR GANGLION. 59 mater in the anterioi- fossa. Tlie posterior is distributed to the pos- terior ethmoidal cells and upper part of the nose. f. Muscular brandies.—There is an upper and a lower branch sup- plying respectively the upper and lower muscles : besides these, there are irregular branches from the lachrymal and supra-orbital arteries. g. Palpebral arteries.—These branches, a superior and an inferior, proceed from the ophthalmic artery near the front of the orbit. They are distributed to their respective eyelids, forming arches near the margins of the lids between the tarsal cartilages and the orbicularis palpebrarum with branches from the lachrymal and the infra-orbital arteries. h. Nasal artery.—This branch niay be considered one of the ter- minal divisions of the ophthalmic. It leaves the orbit on the nasal side of the eye above the tendon of the orbicularis, and inosculates with the angular and nasal arteries of the facial. It supplies the side of the nose and the lachrymal sac. i. Frontal artery.—This is the other terminal branch of the oph- thalmic. It emerges at the inner angle of the eye, ascends, and inoscu- lates with the supra-orbital artery. Ophthalmic There are two ophthalmic veins. The superior Veins. commences at the inner angle of the eye by a communication with the frontal and angular veins. It runs back- wards above the optic nerve in a straighter course than the artery, receives the veins corresponding to the arteries of the upper and inner part of the orbit, and finally passes between the two heads of the external rectus, through the inner part of the sphenoidal fissure, to terminate in the cavernous sinus. The inferior opldlialmic vein is formed by the union of branches from the lower and outer part of the orbit, and proceeding backwards along the floor of the orbit, opens into the superior vein, or directly into the cavernous sinus. In front it sends a communicating vein through the spheno- maxillary fissure to join the pterygoid plexus. Ophtilvlmic or This small ganglion ' (fig. 19, p. 50), of reddish Lknticular colour and about the size of a pin's head, is situ- Ganolion. ^^^^ j^l- ^i^g Qf between the optic nerve and the external rectus, o\\ the outer side of, and usually ' W. Marshall regards this ganglion, from its mode of development and from its relations in some of the lower vertebrates, to be connected more with the third nerve than the ophthalmic.