638 BRANCHES OF THE ITSMORAL ARTERY. A ligature can be placed around the artery, in the upper third of the thigh, with comparative facility; not so easily in the middle third. The artery is tied for an aneurism of the popliteal, just where the sartorius begins to overlap it, for three reasons : (1) it is more accessible ; (2) the coats of the artery at this distance are less likely to be diseased ; (3) the origin of the profunda is suflS- ciently far off to admit of the formation of a clot. An incision, beginning about three inches below the crural arch, should be made about three inches long over the line of the artery. The muscular fascia should be divided on a director to the same extent. Then, by gently drawing aside the inner border of the sartorius, the artery is seen enclosed in its sheath with the vein. An open- ing should be made into the sheath, which must be carefully separated from the artery to an extent sufficient to allow the passage of the aneurismal needle. The needle should be turned round the artery from within outwards, great care being taken not to injure the vein. The nerves to be avoided are—the long saphenous, which runs along the outer side of the artery, and the internal cutaneous which crosses obliquely over it. Having already traced the superficial branches of the femoral artery in the groin, namely, the superficial epigastric, the external pudic, and the superficial circumflexa ilii (p. 611), we pass on now to the profunda. Profunda lyrofimda femoris, the chief branch of the Akteey and femoral, is the proper nutrient artery of the Branches. muscles of the thigh, and is considered as a division, rather than a branch, of the common femoral artery. It is given ofi" from the outer and back part of the femoral, from one and a half to three inches below the crural arch, lying to the outer side of the artery for about two inches, and then runs down behind the femoral till it reaches the tendon of the adductor longus; here the profanda passes behind the adductor, and piercing the adductor magnus as a small branch, is finally lost in the hamstring muscles.' 1 The point at which the profunda is given off b&low the crural arch varies very- much even in the two limbs of the same body. We have measured it in 19 bodies, or 38 femoral arteries. It varied from half an inch to 3 inches. In 22 cases the profunda came off between H and 2 inches ; in 9 this distance was exceeded; in 7 this distance was less.