SUPRA-CLAVICULAR TRIANGLE. 75 nerves. The upper mastoid artery, a branch of the occipital, enters the sterno-mastoid with the nerve. HUPEA-CLAVICU- The supvci-clciviculciT or subclavian triangle is LAB Triangle. bounded below by the clavicle, in front by the outer border of the sterno-niastoid, and above by the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle. The area of the triangle thus formed will vary in proportion to the obliquity of the omo-hyoid muscle, and the extent to which the sterno-mastoid and trapezius are attached to the clavicle. The depth of the vessels and nerves contained in this space depends, not only upon the degree to which the clavicle arches forwards, but varies with the elevation and depression of the shoulder. The descending branches of the cervical plexus, together with some fat, should now be cut through and turned aside, when a layer of a fascia which binds down the omo-hyoid muscle to the clavicle will be exposed. Beneath this is a deeper layer of fascia, which covers the subclavian vessels and brachial plexus of nerves, and descends with them under the clavicle into the axilla. Between these two layers we meet with more or less fat and connective tissue and lymphatic glands continuous with those in the axilla. It will be easily understood how a collection of pus in the axilla may ascend in front of the vessels and point above the clavicle, or, vice versa, how matter formed in the neck may travel under the clavicle and point in the axilla. Near the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle the external jugular vein passes through both layers of the deep fascia, and terminates in the subclavian ; but before its termination it is commonly joined by the supra-scapular, the posterior scapular, and other unnamed veins proceeding from the surrounding muscles; so that there is in this situation a confluence of veins, which, when large or distended, is exceedingly embarrassing. The fascia and the glands should be removed, and the following objects carefully dissected. Behind and nearly parallel with the clavicle is the supra-scapular (transversalis humeri) artery, a branch of the thyi'oid axis. A little higher is the transversalis colli, or posterior scapular (commonly a branch of the thyroid axis), which crosses the lower part of the neck towards the posterior superior