CALCANEO-CUBOID LIGAMENTS. 711 Calcakeo- •CUBOID ABTICU LATION. Fig. 167. Tlie OS cfilcis articulates with tlie os cuboides nearly on a line witli the joint between the astra- galus and the scaphoid. The bones are connected together, on the dorsum, by the superior and internal calcaneo- cuboid ligaments, and on the plantar aspect by the long and short calcaneo-cuboid ligaments. The superior calcaneo-cuboid ligament is a short quadrilateral band of fibres passing from the upper part of the dorsal aspect of the os Calais to the back and upper part of the os cuboides. The internal calcaneo-cuboid ligament con- nects the front part of the ridge of the os calcis to the dorsal and inner part of the cuboid. It is sometimes called the interosseous ligament, and is closely associated with the superior calcaneo- scaphoid ligament. The long calcaneo-cuboid ligament, a broad, long, and strong band of ligamentous fibres, is the more superficial of the two inferior calcaneo- cuboid ligaments. It is known as the long flantar ligament, and is attached to the under surface of the os calcis in front of the tuber- osities, as far as the anterior tubercle ; it passes forwards to the plantar aspect of the cuboid, being attached to the ridge, while some of its fibres extend to the bases of the second, third, and fourth metatarsal bones, and complete the canal for the tendon of the peroneus longus. The short calcaneo-cuboid ligament, deeper than the former, is seen somewhat on its inner aspect, and is separated from it by some fat and connective tissue. It is very broad, and passes from the front of the tubercle of the os calcis, for about an inch in breadth, to the inner and posterior surface of the cuboid, behind the ridge. The articulations between the cuboid and the scaphoid bones behind, and the three cuneiform bones in front, are maintained by dorsal, plantar, and interosseous ligaments. The dorsal and the pZtmto* ligaments consist of parallel fasciculi 1. Caloaiieo-scaphoid ligament. 2. Calcaneo-cuboid ligament.