350 ULNAR AND MEDIAN NERVES. The ulnar nerve gives off tlie following branches :— a. The articular branches to the joint are given off to it, immediately behind the elbow. b. The muscular branches are distributed to the flexor carpi ulnaris and the ulnar half of the flexor profundus digitorum, and are given off from the ulnar a short distance below the elbow. c. A cutaneous branch is given ofl" about the middle of the forearm, one filament of which, called the jyahnar cittaneoits branch, accompanies the ulnar artery to the palm, and communicates with branches from the median nerve. d. The dorsal cutaneous branch, of considerable size, is given ofl" from the ulnar about two inches above the styloid process of the ulna to pass to the back of the hand. It crosses under the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, pierces the deep fascia, and, immediately below the styloid process of the ulna, appears on the back of the hand, where it divides into branches which supply the back of the little tiiiger, and half the ring : here also it sends a branch which communicates with the corre- sponding branch of the radial nerve. e. Articidar branches are also distributed to the wrist-joint. This nerve, at the bend of the elbow, lies on the inner side of the brachial artery and beneath the bicipital fascia. It then passes between the two heads of origin of the pronator teres, and descends along the middle of the forearm, between the flexor sublimis and the flexor profundus digitorum. At the lower part of the forearm, it becomes more superficial, lying above the wrist between the outer tendon of the flexor sublimis and the inner border of the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis; beneath, or to the ulnar side of the palmaris longus, and having in front of it the skin and deep fascia ; it then enters the palm beneath the anterior annular ligament, and divides into five branches for the supply of the thumb, both sides of the fore and middle fingers, and the radial side of the ring finger. Immediately below the elbow, the median nerve sends off:— a. The muscidar branches to the pronator teres, and to all the flexor muscles of the forearm, except the flexor carpi ulnaris and the ulnar half of the flexor profundus, which are supplied by the ulnar nerve.