COCHLEA. 830 inner, the scala vestibuli, and an outer, tlie canalis coahlece, the scala media or the ductus cochlearis (fig. 205, D c). The canalis cochlege terminates at the helicotrema in a cul-de-sac ; inferiorly, it is con- nected with the saccule by a long narrow duct, called the canalis reuniens. The membrane of Reissner (fig. 205, M r), is the oblique mem- brane which separates the scala vestibuli and the canalis cochlese. It is a delicate, almost structureless, layer, composed of connective tissue, continuous with the periosteum lining the upper surface the lamina spiralis. It is smooth on its vestibular surface, and is lined with flattened connective-tissue cells; on its cochlear surface it is covered with squamous epithelium. The inner tuall of the canalis cochlete is formed by the mem- brane of Reissner covered with pavement epithelium. The outer wall, the periosteum, is thickened by a quantity of retiform con- nective tissue lined with columnar epithelial cells. An increase of this tissue is seen a little above the ligamentum spirale as a conical eminence, in which runs a small vessel, the vas spirale; midway between the vas and the attachment of Reissner's mem- brane is another thickening, consisting also of numerous blood- vessels, stria vascidaris, which form anastomosing loops. The lower wall is formed by the limbus spiralis and the basilar mem- brane ; upon the latter is placed the complex structure, called the organ of Oorti. The orgaoi of Corti, placed upon the upper surface of the mem- brana basilaris, presents a slight triangular elevation outside the limbus, and winds spirally throughout the cochlea, from its base to its summit. The central part of the organ (fig. 206, T c) consists of two sets, an inner and an outer, of slanting rods—rods of Corti —which rest against each other at their upper extremities, thus forming a triangular tunnel, called the tunnel of Corti, filled in the recent state with endolymph. The inner and the outer rods are similar in structure, but differ in shape—the inner are shorter, less oblique, and have the shape of the human ulna, the outer resemble a swan's head, the head being received into the conca\^ty of the inner rod, the part resembling the bill looking horizontally outwards. Both have a broad nucleated base, and present a