STRUCTURE OF THE LARGE INTESTINE. 606 form a valve : but it is not a perfect one, as is proved by pouring water into the large intestine, or by the occasional vomiting of in- jections. The arrangement of the valve is best examined in a dried preparation. The opening is a transverse fissure like a button- hole ; and the two flaps are arranged like an upper and a lower eyelid. The upper lid of the valve projects more than the lower, so that the contents of the ileum drop naturally down into the caput coli, where they are apt to collect and form hard lumps. The flaps of the valve consist of mucous membrane and the circular fibres of the Ueum. The longitudinal fibres of the ileum are continued directly on to the ctecum: if these be divided, the ileum can be drawn out, and the valve disappears.' Folds in the In many subjects we observe that transverse or Eectdm. oblique folds of the mucous membrane project into the rectum. These cannot be seen to advantage unless the bowel be hardened by alcohol in its natural position. Three, more pro- minent than the rest, and half an inch, or thereabouts, in width, were first pointed out by Mr. Houston.^ One projects from the upper part of the rectum, opposite the prostate gland; another is situated higher up, on the side of the bowel; while the third is still higher. When thickened or ulcerated, these folds are apt to occasion great pain and obstruction in deftecation. Artekial '^^^^^ present opportunity is the best for review- Sdpply of the ing the arterial supply of, and the anastomoses AiiiiENTAEY round, the alimentary canal, from the mouth to the anus. Part of the blood supply has been ex- amined in the dissection of the head and neck ; part in the dis- section of the oesophagus as it passes through the thorax ; and the remainder in that of the abdomen. The following table represents the arteries in their order, beginning at the mouth:— Lower Lip Submental (deep branch). Mental. Inferior labial. Inferior coronary. ' It is interesting to note that the surface of the valve, towards the ileum, is covered with villi; not so the surface towards the large intestine. ^ Dublin Hospital Reports, vol. v. p. 163.