392 EXTENSOR CARPI ULNARIS. side of the proper indicator tendon, and becomes united with it at the metacarpal joint. The tendon of the middle finger usually receives a slip from that of the ring. The tendon of the ring finger generally sends a slip to the tendons on either side of it, and, in some cases, entirely furnishes the tendon of the little finger. Thus the ring finger ' does not admit of independent extension. The muscle is not only a general extensor of the fingers, but can extend some of the phalanges independently of the rest: e.g. •it can extend the first phalanges while the second and third are flexed; or it can extend the second and third phalanges during flexion of the first. ExTENsoE This long slender muscle, situated on the ulnar Minimi Digiti on side of the common extensor, arises from the com- AuBicDLABis. tendon from the external condyle, and from the septa between it and the contiguous muscles. Its slender tendon runs separately beneath the annular ligament immediately behind the joint between the radius and ulna, in a special sheath lined by synovial membrane. On emerging from the annular ligar ment, the tendon splits into two, which pass obliquely to the little finger. At the first joint of the little finger, the outer tendon is joined by that of the common extensor, and both expand upon the first and second phalanges, terminating in the same manner as the extensor tendons of the other fingers. Its nerve comes from the posterior interosseous. Extensor This muscle arises from the common tendon Caepi Ulnabis. from the external condyle, from the septum be- tween it and the extensor minimi digiti, from the fascia of the forearm, and from the aponeurosis attached to the posterior ridge of the ulna common to this muscle, the flexor carpi ulnaris, and the flexor profundus digitorum. The fibres terminate upon a strong, broad tendon, which traverses a distinct groove on the back of the ulna, close to the styloid process, and is inserted into the posterior aspect of the carpal end of the metacarpal bone of the little finger. Below the styloid process of the ulna, the tendon passes beneath the posterior annular ligament, over the back of the wrist, and is confined in a very strong fibrous canal, which is attached to the