423 CUTANEOUS NERVES OF THE GROIN. anus, and gluteal region, and are therefore generally affected in venereal disease. The lymphatics from the upper part of the abdominal parietes terminate in the lumbar glands. The superficial arteries in the neighbourhood arise from the femoral. One, the siLjjerficial eingastric, ascends over Poupart's ligament and ramifies over the lower part of the abdomen, as high as the umbilicus, inosculating with the deep epigastric and in- ternal mammary arteries; another, the superficial external pudic, crosses the spermatic cord, and is distributed to the skin of the penis and scrotum, anastomosing with branches of the internal pudic; a third, the superficial circumflexa ilii, ramifies towards the spine of the ilium, and communicates with the deep circumflex iliac, the gluteal and external circumflex arteries. These subcuta- neous arteries, the pudic especially, often occasion a free haemor- rhage in the operation for strangulated inguinal and femoral hernia. The corresponding veins join the internal saphena vein of the thigh. Under ordinary circumstances they do not appear in the living subject; but when any obstruction occurs in the inferior vena cava, they become enlarged and tortuous, and constitute the chief channels through which the blood would be returned from the lower limbs.^ Cutaneous The skin of the abdomen is supplied with nerves Nerves. after the same plan as the chest—namely, by lateral and anterior branches derived from the five or six lower intercostal nerves, as follows :— a. The lateral cutaneous nerves come out between the digita- tions of the external oblique muscle, in company with small arteries, and divide, except the last, into anterior and posterior branches; the anterior pass forwards as far as the rectus, and are distributed to the skin as far as its outer border, and to the digita- tions of the obliquus externus muscle ; the posterior^ small in size, run backwards and supply the skin over the latissimus dorsi. The lateral hrancTi of the twelfth dorsal nerve is larger than the others, and, piercing both the oblique muscles, passes over the crest of the ' A cast in illustration of this is preserved in the Museum of St. Bartholomew's Hospital.