244 MUCOUS MEMBRANE OF THE LARYNX. chiefly found about the upper opening of the larynx, and it deserves- notice from the rapidity with which it becomes the seat of serous effiision in acute inflammation of the larynx, and thus produces symptoms of sufibcation. In the remaining part of the interior of the larynx the mucous membrane is moderately adherent to the subjacent tissues, and at the upper or false vocal cord it redupli-- cates upon itself and then lines the sacculus laryngis. Naturally, the mucous membrane is of pale rose colour, except where it covers the cushion of the epiglottis, where it is bright pink. It is covered by columnar ciliated epithelium below the false vocal cords, and this variety is continued up the epiglottis as high as its middle; above this, by squamous epithelium. From the root of the tongue to the anterior surface of the epiglottis, the membrane forms three folds, rjlosso-epiglottic, one median, and two lateral, containing elastic tissue. From the epiglottis, to which it is intimately ad- herent, it is continued backwards on either side to the apices of the arytenoid cartilages, forming the ari/teno-ejnglottic folds which bound the upper entrance into the larynx. The mucous membrane of the larynx is remarkable for its acute sensibility. This is requisite to guard the upper opening of the larynx during the passage of the food over it. The larynx ia closed during the act of deglutition ; but if, during this process, anyone attempt to speak or laugh, the epiglottis is raised, and allows the food to pass, as it is termed, the wrong way. As soon as the foreign body touches the mucous membrane of the larynx,, a spasmodic fit of coughing expels it. The sub-mucous tissue of the larynx is studded with mucous glands. An oblong mass of them lies in the aryteno-epiglottic fold, and they are particularly numerous about the ventricles of the larynx. The surface of the epiglottis towards the tongue is abundantly provided with them. Their ducts pass through the epiglottis, and may be recognised as minute openings on its laryngeal aspect. SuPEBioB "^^^^ opening through which the larynx Opening of the communicates with the pharynx. Its outline is Larynx. triangular, with its base directed forwards, and it slopes from before backwards. Anteriorly it is bounded by the