THE TRACHEA. 217 In the cliest, the trachea is contained in the superior media- stinum, and has, in front of it, the manubrium sterni, the origins of the sterno-hyoid and thyroid muscles, the left brachio-cephalic vein, the first parts of the innominate and left common carotid arteries, the transverse portion of the arch of the aorta, and the deep cardiac plexus. On the rhjlit side are the pleura and right pneumogastric nerve ; on the left, the pleura, the left carotid, the left pneumo- gastric, cardiac, and recurrent laryngeal nerves. Bronchi, Eight The two hronchi differ in length, direction, and AXD Left. diameter. The riciht, wider but shorter than the left, is about an inch long, and passes more horizontally to the root of its lung, on a level with the fourth dorsal vertebra. It is larger in all its diameters than the left; hence, foreign bodies which have accidentally dropped into the trachea are more likely to be carried into the right bronchus by the current of the air. The vena azygos major arches over the right bronchus to terminate in the superior vena cava. The left is about two inches in length, and, descending more obliqu.ely to its lung than the right, enters it on a level with the fifth dorsal vertebra. The left bronchus passes under the arch of the aorta, in front of the oesophagus and the thoracic duct, and subsequently crosses in front of the descend- ing aorta. The cartilages of the trachea vary in number from sixteen to twenty, of the right bronchus from six to eight, and of the left from nine to twelve. Those of the trachea form about two-thirS's of a circle, somewhat like a horseshoe in shape, are about -Vth of an inch in their vertical direction, and -^\th in thickness, and thicker in the middle than at the upper and lower borders. The cartilages are connected and covered on their outer and inner surfaces by a tough membrane, consisting of connective and elastic tissues. This membrane is attached above to the circumference of the cricoid cartilage, and is continued through the whole extent of the trachea and bronchial tubes. Posteriorly, where the cartilages are defi- cient, it completes the integrity of the air tube. In this tissue, which is of a pale reddish colour, is a layer of unstriped muscular fibres, arranged in a transverse and a longitudinal direction. The first cartilage is the broadest, and is frequently divided at