THE FACIAL NERVE. 44 The parotid belongs to tlie compound racemose form of glands. Tracing its main duct into tlie substance of the gland, we find that it divides into smaller ones, which again divide into the smaller ramuscules which open into caecal dilatations called alveoli. Each alveolus—about j^^^ of an inch in diameter—has a more or less defined basement membrane upon which the cells rest. The cells are flattened and spheroidal, enclosing nuclei, some of them having outstanding processes from the bases of the cells. An aggregation ■of these alveoli forms a small lobule, from which a small excretory duct proceeds; these lobules are united by intervening connective tissue, which is a continuation inwards of the dense fascia covering the gland. The connective tissue varies much in thickness in different situations, and where it is most abundant it is distinctly lamellar (Klein),' and contains numerous granular plasma cells a,nd lymphoid tissue. The small ramuscules have only a basement membrane with flattened cells, which change in the smaller ducts to a columnar form, while in the larger ducts the epithelium is squamous. The parotid gland secretes an alkaline watery fluid, containing solids which amount to 6 parts in 1,000. The solids consist of ptyalin, a special ferment, mucus, and certain salts, chiefly sulpho- cyanide of potassium, chlorides and phosphates of potassium, sodium, lime, and magnesia. Apart from its mechanical proper- ties, the parotid secretion has the power, by means of its ptyalin, •of converting starch into dextrine and grape sugar. To display the plexus of nerves (pes anserinus), formed by the branches of the facial, cut into the parotid gland by a vertical incision until the main trunk of the nerve is reached. PoRTioDXJiu, This is the seventh cranial nerve, and is the OB Facial Nerve, motor nerve of the face. It supplies all the muscles of expression, the platysma, and the buccinator. Through some of its branches it supplies other muscles, the description of which will be deferred till the facial nerve is dissected in the tem- poral bone. It arises immediately below the pons Varolii, from the lateral tract of the medulla oblongata, between the olivary and restiform bodies. The nerve enters the meatus auditorius internus, ' Klein, Quarterly Journal of Microscopical Science, 1882.