16 MENINGEAL ARTERIES. Meningeal These arteries ramify between tlie skull and the AnTEBiEs. (Jura mater. Their course may be traced by the grooves which they make in the bones. They are termed anterior, middle, and posterior, from the fossee in which they ramify. The anterior meningeal are derived from the etlimoidal branches of the ophthalmic artery and the cavernous portions of the internal carotid. They supply the dura mater in the neighbourhood of the ethmoid bone. The middle menhigeal are three in number : the most important is the arteria meningea media, a branch of the internal maxillary artery. It enters the skull through the foramen spinosum, and divides into two principal branches : one, the anterior, runs in a groove near the anterior border of the parietal bone ; the other, the posterior, curves backwai'ds over the temporal bone, and subsequently ramifies on the parietal bone. The artery gives off a small branch—the petrosal, which enters the hiatus Fallopii and anastomoses with the stylo-mastoid artery in the aqujeductus Fallopii; one or more anastomosing branches which enter the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure to communicate with the ophthalmic artery ; and some temporal branches which pierce the sphenoid bone to enter the temporal fossa. It is accompanied by two veins which empty themselves into the internal maxillary vein. The arteria meningea parva, which enters the skull through the foramen ovale, and a meningeal branch from the ascending pharyngeal artery, which comes up through the foramen lacerum medium, also supply the dura mater and bones of the middle fossa. The posterior meningeal come from the occipital, the ascending pharyngeal and the vertebral arteries ; the two former enter the skull tlirough the foramen jugulare, and the latter through the foramen magnum. The menmgeal veins with the exception of the middle meningeal, open into the various sinuses. The position of the meningeal arteries renders them liable to injury in fractures of the skull; hence extravasation of blood between the skull and dura mater is one of the common causes of compression of the brain. The student should now examine the cranial Dissection. nerves as they pass out through the foramina in the base of the skull, and then dissect the cavernous sinus. Exit of the The cranial nerves proceed in pairs through the Cn^miAL Nerves. foramina at the base of the skull; they are named