C30 COUBSE AND RELATIONS OF THE FEMOIUL ARTERY. front of tlie line, and from the fascial prolongation of Ginibernat'» ligament covering the muscle; it passes downwards, outwards, and backwards, and is inserted into the upper part of the ridge leading from the lesser trochanter to the linea aspera. It lies upon the capsular ligament of the hip-joint, the adductor brevis, the ob- turator vessels and nerve, and the obturator externus. Its nerve comes from the anterior crural which runs under the femoral vessels to enter it close to its outer border; sometimes also from ' the obturator, and the accessory obturator if present (p. 498). By separating the contiguous borders of the pectineus and the adductor longus, the adductor brevis is exposed with the anterior division of the obturator artery and nerve lying upon it. To obtain a complete view of it, the pectineus and adductor longus must be reflected from their origins and turned downwards. The obturator nerve supplies all the adductors. It leaves the pelvis through the upper part of the obturator foramen, and soon divides into an anterior and posterior branch : the anterior runs in front of the adductor brevis, and supplies the hip-joint, the adductor longus, the gracilis, and sometimes the adductor brevis and the pectineus; the posterior' runs behind the adductor brevis, and supplies it as well as the obturator externus, the adductor magnus, and the knee-joint. The student should now, before the parts are disturbed, examine the femoral artery as it passes down along the centre of Scarpa's triangle: its further course will be described later on, as well as the branches which come off from it. „ „ The femoral artery is a continuation of the CODESE AND . . Eelations op external iliac. Passing beneath the crural arch THE Femobal at a point midway between the spine of the ilium. Abtert. ^j^g symphysis pubis, it descends along the front and inner side of the thigh. At the junction of the upper two-thirds with the lower third of the thigh, it passes through an opening in the tendon of the adductor magnus, and, entering the ham, takes the name of popliteal. A line drawn from the point indicated of the crural arch to the adductor tubercle on the internal condyle corresponds with the course of the artery. Its distance from the surface increases as it descends. Immediately under, and for