258 DISSECTION OF THE SUPERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. the middle line, intersect the longitudinal fibres, and finally termi- nate upon the sides of the tongue. Lastly, the fibres of the stylo- glossi should be traced along the side of the tongue to the apex. Fibrous Septum The fibrous septum of the tongue is a vertical OF THE Tongue. plane of fibrous tissue which extends, in the mesial line, from the base to the apex. It is thick posteriorly, where it is connected behind with the hyoid bone, and is lost in front between the muscles. In it is sometimes found a piece of fibro-cartilage, called nucleus fibrosus linguce, a representative of the lingual bone in some of the lower animals. The arteries supplying the tongue are the dorsal and ranine branches of the lingual artery. It is important to bear in mind that the arteries do not anastomose across the middle line, and only very slightly at the apex, so that it is possible to cut along the septum of the tongue from the apex to the base with very little hEemorrhage,—a fact of much importance in the removal of the tongue or cancer of that organ. The nerves to the tongue should now be followed to their ter- mination. The hypoglossal supplies with motor power all the muscles. The gustatory or lingual branch of the inferior division of the fifth is distributed to the mucous membrane and papillae of the apex and sides of the tongue, supplying the anterior two-thirds with common sensation. Upon this nerve depends the sensation of all ordinary impressions, such as that of hardness, softness, heat, cold, and the like. The glosso-pharyngeal nerve supplies the mucous membrane at the back and the sides of the tongue, and the papiUas circum- vallatse. Under the microscope small ganglia may be distin- guished on the terminal fibres of this nerve. DISSECTION OF THE SUPERIOE MAXILLAEY NERVE. To trace this nerve and its branches we must remove the outer wall of the orbit as far as the foramen rotundum, so as to expose the spheno-maxillary fossa. The superior maxillary nerve is a sensory nerve, and is the