CRURA CEREBKI. 745 cavities filled with nucleated cells and granular matter; it is originally developed as a prolongation from tlae ectoderm of the buccal cavity, from which it soon becomes isolated. The corpora alhicantia (^nammillarici) are two round white bodies, situated behind the tuber cinereum. Each is formed by the curl upon itself of the anterior cms of the fornix, called the hulh of the fornix, which then turns backwards and upwards ta end in the optic thalamus. They contain within them some grey matter, and up to the seventh month of foetal life they form one mass. The locus perforatus posticus (pons Tarini) is a depression of grey matter placed between the diverging crura cerebri and behind the corpora albicantia. Its surface is penetrated by small vessels which supply the optic thalami. From its grey substance some white fibres emerge and turn round over the crura cerebri to enter the white medullary portion of the cerebellum. The crura cerehri (fig. 170) are the two rounded masses of white matter which emerge from the anterior border of the pons Varolii, and then pass forwards and outwards to enter the anterior and inner aspect of the temporo-sphenoidal lobes. Each is about three-quarters of an inch long, and is rather broader in front than behind. On the inner side the third nerve is seen emerging from a groove (oculo-motor) in the crus, which marks the division of the eras into two portions, an upper (dorsal) and larger called the tegmentinn, and a lower or ventral, called the cruda. The optic tract curves round the anterior part of each crus, and is adherent to it by its anterior border. Structure of These are composed of longitudinal fibres, de- THE Cbura rived from the pyramids, from part of the lateral Cebebbi. restiform columns of the medulla, and from the grey matter in the pons Varolii. If one of the crura be divided longitudinally, there is found in the middle of it a layer of dark- ' coloured nerve-substance, called locus mV/ei', which separates the < crus into an upper and lower stratum of fibres. The lower stratum •( {crusta) is tough and coarse, and consists of the continuation of the 1 fibres proceeding from the pyramid and the pons. The vipper > stratum (terjmentmrh) is much softer and finer in texture; it is