STRUCTUKE OF THE PANCREAS. 585 from left to right in the pancreas, nearer its lower than its upper border, and nearer its anterior than its posterior surface. Com- mencing at the tail by the junction of the smaller ducts, it receives, in its course to the right side, repea,tedly, other ducts, and thus gradually increases in size until it reaches the head, where it usually receives a large branch from the lesser pancreas; the large duct then curves downwards, and comes into relation with the common bile duct; it then passes very obliquely through the coats of the de- scending duodenum on its posterior aspect, and then either opens separately, or in conjunction with the common bile duct, into this portion of the intestine. The stmckLre of the pancreas resembles in most of its characters that of the salivary glands. The alveoli are tubular, frequently convoluted, and are lined by columnar epithelium, which leaves only a narrow lumen, which is often occupied by spindle-shaped cells called the centro-acinar cellsThe ducts are very constricted at their commencement from. the alveolus, and are lined by short columnar epithelial cells, which become larger towards the termi- nation of the duct. The arteries of the pancreas are derived from the splenic, the superior and inferior pancreatico-duodenal branches, respectively, of the hepatic and the superior mesenteric arteries. The veins open into the splenic and superior mesenteric veins. The lymphatics end in the lumbar glands; its nerves are derived from the solar plexus. The nses of the pancreatic fluid are: . to convert the starchy matters into dextrine and grape sugar ; to emulsify (in conjunction with the bile) the fatty particles, and, by its alkaline salts, partly saponify the fatty acids, thus enabling them to be taken up by the lacteals; and, lastly, to convert into peptones the albuminous and gelatinous substances of food. It is an alkaline fluid, very similar to that secreted in the salivary glands, but contains no sulpho- cyanogen. g^^^^^ The spleen is a very vascular sponge-like organ, and belongs to the class of ductless glands.^ It varies in size according to the amount of blood in it, fluctuating in ' Langerhans, Bcitrdgc, Ac, Berlin, 18G9. * The other ductless glands are, the thyroid, thymus, and supra-renal capsules.