528 PELVIC FASCIA. the fascia, to allow the bladder to distend with facility. When- ever urine is extravasated into this loose tissue, it is sure to pro- duce the most serious consequences; therefore in all operations on the perineum, it is of the utmost importance not to injure this fascia. The pelvic fascia is a thin but strong membrane, and constitutes the true ligaments of the bladder and the other pelvic viscera, sup- porting and maintaining them in their proper position. Examine, first, to what parts of the pelvis the fascia is attached; secondly, the manner in which it is reflected on the viscera. Beginning, then (fig. 126), we see that, in front, the fascia is continuous with the transversalis fascia, and laterally with the iliac fascia, and that superiorly it is attached to the body of the os pubis, to the brim of the pelvis, and to the side of the bone just above the attachment of the obturator internus, close to the obturator foramen and the great sciatic notch. Here it becomes gradually thinner, covers the pyriformis and the sacral plexus, and is gradually lost on the front of the sacrum. Traced forwards, we find that it is attached to the bone alonsr the upper border of the obturator internus, and, as it passes for- wards over the obturator foramen, completes the canal through which the obturator vessels pass to the foramen; anteriorly, it is attached to the posterior surface of the lower part of the symphysis pubis. From this attachment the fascia descends as far as a line drawn from the spine of the ischium to the pubic symphysis, where it forms a dense white line which marks the division of the fascia into two layers, an outer, the obturator, and an inner, the recto-vesical fascia. It also serves for the attachment of a consider- able iDart of the middle portion of the levator ani. The obturator fascia, the outer layer, is the continuation of the pelvic fascia, and descends on the inner surface of the obturator internus, forming at the same time a sheath for the pudic vessels and nerve, the nerve being the lowest. It is attached to the pubic arch, to the tuberosity of the ischium, and to the margin of the great sacro-sciatic ligament. It is continuous in front, below the symphysis pubis, with the corresponding layer of the opposite side, and here forms the posterior layer of the triangular ligament. From this fascia is derived the iscMo-redal or anal fascia, which