DISSECTION OF THE NECK. G5 It arises from the subcutaneous tissue over the pectoralis major, trapezius and deltoid muscles ;' thence proceeding obliquely over the clavicle and the side of the neck, its fibres become more closely- aggregated, and terminate thus :—The anterior cross those of the opposite platysma, immediately below the symphysis of the jaw, and are lost in the skin of the chin; the middle are attached along the base of the jaw; the posterior cross the masseter miiscle, and terminate, partly in the subcutaneous tissue of the cheek, partly in the muscles at the corner of the mouth blending with the depressor anguli oris and orbicularis.^ The platysma forms a strong muscular defence for the neck. It is also a muscle of expression.^ It is supplied with nerves by the cervical plexus, and by the cervical branch of the facial nerve. Cut through the platysma near the clavicle and Dissection. • • • • turn it upwards. Beneath it lies the general in- vestment of the neck, called the deep cervical fascia. Upon this fascia we trace the superficial branches of the cervical plexus of nerves, the external jugular vein, and a smaller vein in front, called the anterior jugular. These superficial veins are so variable in size and course, that a general description only is applicable. ' Some anatomists describe it as having a slender origin from tlie clavicle and the acromion. Some of the uppermost fibres of this part of the platysma take the name of musculus risorius : this has been described among the muscles of the face. ' If the entire muscle be permanently contracted it may occasion wry-neck, though distortion from such a cause is an exceedingly rare occurrence. A case in point is related by Mr. Gooch (Chirurg. Works), in which a complete cure was effected, after the failure of all ordinary means of relief, by the division of the platysma a little below the jaw. The platysma myoides belongs to a class of muscles called cutaneous, from their office of moving the skin. There are not many in man, except upon the neck and face, and there is a little one (palmaris brcvis) in the j)ahn of the hand. To understand their use thoroughly we must refer to the lower orders of animals, in whom they fulfil very important functions, by moving not only the skin, but also its appendages. For instance, by muscles of this kind the hedgehog, porcu- pine, and animals of that family can roll themselves up and erect their quiUs : we are all familiar with the broad ' panniculus carnosics ' on the sides of herbivorous quadrupeds, which enables them to twitch their skins, and thus rid themselves of insects. In birds, too, these cutaneous muscles are extremely numerous, each feather having appropriate muscles to move it. F