G76 POPLITEAL VESSELS. is into the under and back part of tlie tuberosity of tlie os calcis. The tendon previously expands a little: between it and the bone is a bursa of considerable size. The action of the gastrocnemius and soleus is to raise the body on the toes. Since the gastrocnemius passes over two joints, it has the power (like the rectus) of extending the one while it bends the other, and it is, therefore, admirably adapted to the purpose of walking. For instance, by first extending the foot it raises the body; and then, by bending the knee, it transmits the weight from one leg to the other. Supposing the fixed point to be at the heel, the gastrocnemius is also concerned in keeping the body erect, for it keeps the tibia and fibula perpendicular on the foot, and thus counteracts the tendency of the body to fall forwards. The tendo Achillis, in pointing the toes, acts upon a lever of Fig. 157. the first order. The fulcrum is at the ankle-joint, F (fig. 157); the re- sistance, w, at the toes; the power at the heel, p. All the conditions are those of a lever of the first order. The power and the weight act in the mme direction on opposite sides of the fulcrum. In raising the body on tiptoe, the tendo Achillis acts as a lever of the second order ; the fulcrum being then at the ball of the great toe, and the weight of the body at the ankle. After passing through the oiDening in the tendon of the adductor magnus, the femoral artery takes the name of popliteal. It descends nearly per- pendicularly behind the knee-joint, between the origins of the gastrocnemius, as far as the lower border of the popliteus, where it divides into the anterior and posterior tibial. In its descent it lies, first, upon the lower part of the femur, and here it is slightly overlapped by the semimembranosus; next, it lies upon the posterior ligament of the knee-joint; and, lastly, upon the popliteus. At its lower part the artery is covered, at first by the semimembranosus, the popliteal vein, the internal popliteal couesk and Eelations of thk Popliteal Abtbry.