717 PIA MATER. The c&rebro-spinal fluid varies in amount from two drachms to two ounces. It is a clear, limpid fluid, sliglitly alkaline, contain- ing 98"5 parts of water, and 1*5 parts of solid matter. The cere- bro-spinal fluid of the encephalon and that of the spinal cord communicate. This, the immediate investing membrane of the PiA TER. 'brain, is extremely vascular, and composed of a minute network of blood-vessels held together by delicate con- nective tissue. It covers the cerebral surface, and dips into the fissures between the convolutions, forming a double layer. From its internal surface numerous vessels pass off" at right angles into the substance of the brain.^ The pia mater sends a prolongation through the transverse fissure into the lateral and third ventricles, forming the velum interpositum and the cJwroid plexuses, and also another along the roof of the fourth ventricle, forming the tela choi'oidea inferior. Upon the surface of the cerebellum, the pia mater is thinner, not so vascular, and only sends prolongations down the larger sulci; on the pons Varolii and the medulla, the membrane is more fibrous and much less vascular than elsewhere. The pia mater is supplied with nerves by the third, fifth, sixth, facial, glosso-pharj-ngeal, pneumogastric, spinal-accessory, and sympathetic nerves, which chiefly accompany the blood-vessels forming the pia mater. Arteries of The brain is siipplied with blood by the two THE Brain. internal carotid and the two vertebral arteries. Internal This artery enters the skull through the carotid Carotid. canal in the temporal bone, and ascends very tor- tuously, by the side of the body of the sphenoid, along the inner wall of the cavernous sinus. It appears on the inner side of the anterior clinoid process, and, after giving ofi" the ophthalmic, divides into an anterior and middle cerebral, posterior communicating and I anterior choroid arteries. a. The anterior cerebral artery is given off from the internal carotid t at the inner end of the fissure of Sylvius. It passes forwards and in- ^ wards to reach the longitudinal fissure between the hemispheres, curves ' Owing to these vessels, the pia mater, when placed in water, presents a floccu- \ lent, woolly appearance, and hence it is sometimes called tonientuvi cerebri.