brajsthes of the beachial artery. 333 ai'teiy, and passes through the internal intermuscular septum to get behind the internal condyle. About the middle of the humerus, the artery lies for nearly two inches on the tendon of the coraco-brachialis, and is so close to the bone that it can be effectually compressed, provided the pressure be made in the proper direction—namelj'-, outwards. Here, too, it is crossed by the median nerve. At the bend of the elbow the artery is crossed by the semilunar fascia from the biceps. It enters a triangular space, bounded by the pronator radii teres internally, and by the supinator radii longus externally. It sinks into this space, with the tendon of the biceps to its outer side, and the median nerve to its inner ■ all three rest upon the brachialis anticus. To compress the artery here, pressure should be made directly backwards. Opposite the coronoid process of the ulna it divides into the radial and iilnar arteries. Two veins, of which the internal is the larger, lie in close con- tact Avith the brachial artery, and communicate at frequent intervals by transverse branches. Near the axilla they join and form the axillary vein. Br.«;ches 01' The brachial artery gives off four branches, all Brachial Artery, from its inner side : namely, the superior profunda, the inferior profunda, the nutrient artery, and the anastomotica magna. It also distributes muscular branches to the coraco- brachialis and biceps, which are given off from its outer side. a. The •profunda superior arises from the iimer and back part of brachial ai-tery, immediately below the tendon of the teres major. ^ It winds round the back of the humerus, between the outer and inner heads of the triceps, accompanied by the musculo-spiral nerve, and, a little above the middle of the arm, divides into two branches, which run for some distance on either side of the nerve. One of these runs in the substance of the triceps muscle, with the nerve to the anconeus, as far as the olecranon, and anastomoses with the posterior ulnar recur- rent, the interosseous recurrent, and anastomotica magna arteries : the other branch accompanies the musculo-spiral nerve to the outer side of ' If the profunda be not in its usual place, look for it above the tendon of the I latissimus dorsi, where it will probably be given off from a common trunk with the \ posterior circumflex.