293 PREVERTEBIUL MUSCLES. Hie vertehral artery runs along the groove in the arch of the atlas, and, before perforating the posterior occipito-atloicl liga- ment to enter the skull, distributes small branches to the adjacent muscles. The deep cervical artery is the posterior branch of the first intercostal artery (from the subclavian). It passes backwards between the transverse process of the last cervical vertebra and the first rib : it then ascends between the complexus and the semispinalis colli, and anastomoses with the princeps cervicis. The 2yosterior branches of the intercostal and lumbar arteries accompany the corresponding nerves, and are in all respects similar to them in distribution. Each sends a small branch into the spinal canal (intraspinal), and small branches to the vertebra. The veins correspond to the arteries. PuEVERTEBEAii We havB, lastly, to examine three muscles, Muscles. situated in front of the spine : namely, the longus colli, the rectus capitis anticus major, and the rectus capitis anticus minor. In order to have a complete view of the two latter, a special dissection should be made, before the head is removed from the first vertebra. ^ ^ ^ This muscle is situated in front of the spine, and extends from the third dorsal vertebra to the atlas. For convenience of description it is divided into three sets of fibres, of which one extends longitudinally from the body of one vertebra to that of another; the two others extend obliquely between the transverse processes and the bodies of the vertebree. The loncjitudinal portion of the muscle arises from the bodies of the three upper dorsal and the three lower cervical vertebrae, and is inserted into the bodies of the second, third and fourth cervical vertebrge. The superior ohlique portion, arising from the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the third, fourth, and fifth cervical vertebrae, ascends inwards, and is inserted into the front part or body of the atlas. The inferior ohlique portion proceeds from the bodies of the three upper dorsal vertebras, and passing upwards and outwards, is inserted into the transverse processes of the fifth and sixth cervical vertebras. The action of this muscle, taken as a