STRUCTURES SEEN ON OPENING THE ABDOMEN. 448 side of tlie uraclius are two other folds, enclosing cords whicb. ascend obliquely towards the umbilicus : these are the impervious remains of the liyporjastric arteries. On opening the cavity of the peritoneum, there are seen, in con- nection with the fibrous cords just mentioned, two fossee in the neigh- bourhood of Poupart's ligament—one on the inner side, the other on the outer side of the obliterated hypogastric artery. The depth of these fossae depends upon the tension of this cord; so that, while sometimes they are scarcely visible, at others they are deep and well-marked. They are of importance, since they correspond with the internal and external abdominal rings; hence, the greater depth of one or other hollow may determine the locality of the pro- trusion of a hernia. Occasionally the deep epigastric artery lies nearer the middle line than it normally does, so that we may have three pouches instead of two, through either of which a hernia may emerge. The abdominal cavity is seen to- be composed of two divisions— an upper or abdomen proper, and a lower or the pelvis. It is the upper division that we are about to describe. Take now a survey of the viscera before they are disturbed from their relative positions. What is seen right hypochondrium, the right lobe of ON OPENING THE tlio Hvor Is seeu projecting more or less below the Abdomen. cartilages of the ribs, and the fundus of the gall- bladder below the edge of the liver, near the end of the ninth costal cartilage. In the left hy|DOchondi'ium is seen more or less of the stomach according to its distension. Across the umbilical region extends a broad fold of the peritoneum containing fat, the great omentum, which descends from the lower curvature of the stomach, forming a curtain over the convolutions of the small intestine. The breadth of this fold varies; sometimes being so shrunk and crumpled as to be scarcely visible. The lower part of the abdomen and part of the pelvis are occupied by the small intestine. The urinary bladder is not apparent, unless distended sufficiently to rise out of the pelvis. In the right iliac fossa is the caput coli, the com- mencement of the large intestine; but the ascending part of the laro-e intestine in the right lumbar region, and the descending