357 ULNAR NERVE IN THE PALM. little finger, then it lies upon tlie superficial flexor tendons and the divisions of the ulnar and median nerves, and is covered by the palmar fascia. Immediately below the pisiform bone, the ulnar a/rtery gives off the ulnaris profunda, which sinks deeply into the palm, between the origins of the abductor and flexor brevis minimi digiti, to form the deep palmar arch, by joining the terminal branch of the radial artery. It is accompanied by the deep branch of the -ulnar nerve. From the concavity of the arch small recurrent hranches ascend to the carpus, and inosculate with the other carpal branches of the radial and ulnar arteries. Foitr digital arteries arise from the convexity of the arch. They supply all the digits, except the thumb and the radial side of the index finger. The first descends over the muscles on the inner side of the palm, to the ulnar side of the little finger, along which it runs to the apex. The second, third, and fourth descend nearly veitically between the tendons, in a line with the clefts between the fingers, and, about half an inch above the clefts, each divides into two branches, which proceed along the opposite sides of the fingers nearly to the end of the last phalanges, where they unite to form an arch with the convexity towards the end of the finger j from this arch numerous branches supply the papillae at the tip of the finger. In the palm of the hand the digital arteries, before they divide, are joined by branches from the corresponding palmar interosseous arteries (branches of the deep palmar arch) (fig. 83). The digital arteries freely communicate, on the palmar and dorsal aspect of the fingers, by transverse branches, which supply the joints and the sheaths of the tendons. Near the ungual phalanx, a considerable branch passes to the back of the finger, and forms a network of vessels which supply the matrix of the nail, Ulnak Nerve The ulnar nerve passes over the annular liga- iN THE Palm. ment into the palm, on the inner side of the ulnar artery, and a little behind it. It lies in the groove between the pisiform and unciform bones, so that it is perfectly secure from pressure. Immediately below the pisiform bone, the nerve divides into a superficial and a deep palmar branch. The deep branch supplies the muscles forming the ball of the little finger, and