DISSECTION OF THE NOSE. 271 At this stage of the dissection we may conveniently trace the anterior divisions of the two upper cervical nerves. Suboccipital The anterior division of the first cervical or suh- Nerve. occipital nerve descends in front of the transverse process of the atlas to form a loop with the ascending branch of the second cervical nerve. It lies beneath the vertebral artery, on the inner side of the rectus capitis lateralis, to which it gives a branch ; as also, one to the occipito-atloid joint, one to the rectus capitis anticus minor, and one to the sympathetic around the vertebral artery. From its loop of communication with the second nerve it gives filaments of communication to the superior cervical ganglion, to the hypoglossal and pneumogastric nerves; and muscular branches to the longus colli and rectus capitis anticus major. Second Cervi- The anterior division of this nerve emerges be- CAL Nekye. tween the arches of the atlas and axis, and passes between the vertebral artery and the intertransverse muscle, in, front of which it subdivides into an ascending branch which joins the first cervical nerve, and into a descending which joins the third cervical nerve. DISSECTION OF THE NOSE. Presuming that the dissector is familiar with the bones com- posing the skeleton of the nose, we shall now describe: 1. The nasal cartilages; 2. The general figure and arrangement of the nasal cavities; 3. The m embrane which lines them ; and, 4. The distribution of the olfactory nerves. Carttlages of the The framework of the external nose is formed Nose. }jj £ye cartilages; on each side by two lateral cartilages; and by one in the centre, which completes the septum •between the nasal fossae. The lateral cartilages are termed, respectively, upper and lower, which are covered externally by integument, and are lined internally by mucous membrane. The upper, triangular in shape, is connected superiorly to the margin of the nasal and superior maxillary bones ; anteriorly, which is its thickest part, to the cartilage of the septum;