241 CRICOID CARTILAGE. and lower comma. Tlie upper is tbe longer ; tlie lower articulates ■with, the side of tlie cricoid cartilage. Cricoid Car- This cartilage, named from its resemblance to TiLAGE. a ring,^ is situated below the thyroid. It is not of equal depth all round. It is narrow in front, where it may- be felt about a quarter of an inch below the thyroid; from this part, the upper border gradually rises, so that, posteriorly, the ring is an inch in vertical depth, and occupies part of the interval left between the al£e of the thyroid. In the middle of this broad posterior surface is a vertical ridge, on either side of which observe a superficial excavation for the origin of the crico-arytenoidei postici: to the lower part of the vertical ridge are attached some of the longitudinal fibres of the oesophagus. On its u])][>er part are two oval slightly convex surfaces for the articulation of the ary- tenoid cartilages, between which is a concavity for the attachment of the arytenoideus. In front, its upper border presents a broad excavation to which the crico-thyroid membrane (on which is seen the crico-thyroid artery), is attached. On its outer surface, external to the depression for the crico-arytenoideus posticus, is an elevated facet which articulates with the inferior cornu of the thyroid cartilage. In front of this articular surface it gives attachment to the inferior constrictor of the pharynx. The loiver border is straight, and is connected by fibrous membrane to the first ring of the trachea. The inner surface is smooth, and the upper border is elliptical; its lower being nearly circular. ^ The thyroid cartilage is connected to the cricoid by a membrane—the crico-thyroid. It consists of a median triangular portion, composed mainly of elastic tissue, with its base directed downwards. The lateral portions are thin' and membranous, extending as far backwards as the articular facets for the thyroid cartilage, and are intimately connected with the inferior vocal cords. Between the inferior cornu of the thyroid cartilage and the cricoid there is a distinct joint, having a synovial membrane, and strengthened by a capsular ligament. The arti- culation allows of a movement revolving upon its own axis, and, consequently, permits the approximation of the two cartilages. ' KpUos, a ring. P