593 STRUCTURE OF THE KIDNEY. becomes much narrowed and curved, called the curved ov junctional tubule. We have thus traced the straight tubes from their ter- mination at the papillje to their commencement at the pyramids of Ferrein, and have also traced the convoluted tubules from their origin in the Malpighian capsules to their junction with the com- mencement of the straight tubes. The tubuli uriniferi consist of a basement membrane lined with epithelium, Avhich varies in the dijSerent parts of the tubuli. The capsule is lined with flattened cells, having oval nuclei; the neclc has cubical epithelium ; the first convoluted ttibide is lined with polyhedral epithelium, presenting numerous rod-like processes, resting at one end on the basement membrane, while the other extends towards the lumen of the tubule,^ and thus presents the appearance of striation ; the spiral tuhide of Schacliowa has similar epithelium; the descending limb is lined with flattened epithelium, like that in the capsule; the ascending limb presents epithelium ■ similar to that found in the first convoluted and spiral portion of t the tubule, although smaller and with shorter rod-like processes ; ■ the hregtdar tubule is furnished with the rod-like cells of unequal length, which, however, render the lumen more uniform; the second convoluted tubxde has epithelium somewhat like that of the first I convoluted tubule, but having long cells with large nuclei, and ] possessing high refractive properties ; the curved ov junctional tubide 1 has a large lumen, and is lined by angular or fusiform cells with short processes; the collecting or straight tubes are lined with cubical epithelium, which in the larger tubes becomes distinctly ("olumnar. The renal artery enters the hilum between the pelvis and the renal vein. It shortly divides into four or five branches, which pass outwards between the papillae, and then enter the cortical |)ortion between the pyramids. From these there pass to each -Malpighian pyramid two branches, which ascend along its sides as i'-dv as its base, distributing in their course small vessels which pass to the Malpighian capsules. At the base of the pyramid they form arches, and make a bend from which two sets of branches are given off, the interlobular arteries and the arteriolse rectee. ' Heidenhain, Archiv f. mikr. Anatom. x., 1873. Q Q