624 PARTS CONCERNED IN FEMORAL HERNIA. The femoral ring is surrounded on all sides by unyielding structures. This accounts for the little benefit afforded by the warm bath in cases of strangulation. Sir W. Lawrence was in the habit of saying that he never saw a strangulated femoral hernia where the warm bath was of any avail. Practical From what has been said, the student ought Application op now to understand—1, at what aperture a femoral THE Subject. hernia escapes from the abdomen ; 2, the course which it takes, and its relations to the surrounding parts ; 3, the proper mode of attempting the reduction; 4, the structure and arrangement of its coverings ; and, 5, the probable seat of stricture. The hernia escapes from the abdomen through the femoral ring —that is, under the weak part of the crural arch, between the femoral vein and Gimbernat's ligament. Here is the mouth of the hernial sac, or that part of it which communicates with the abdomen. It descends for a short distance nearly perpendicu- larly, and projects as a small tumour in front of the pectineus muscle. Its progress downwards, however, is soon arrested, partly by the very close adhesion of the subcutaneous structures to the lower margin of the saphenous opening; partly by the flexion of the thigh. Consequently, if the hernia increases in size, it usually rises over the crural arch, where the subcutaneous tissue offers less resistance ; and the bulk of the hernia extends outwards towards the ilium, assuming more or less of an oblong form, with the long axis parallel to the crural arch. Since, then, the body of the hernia forms a very acute angle with the neck, the right mode of attempting its reduction is, to draw it, first, down from the groin, and then to make pressure on it, backwards, in the direction of the femoral ring. Coverings OF The coverings of a femoral hernia are as fol- a Femoral lows :—It first protrudes before it the peritoneum,- ■ Hernia. technically called the hernial sac.^ The sac is met with anything deserving the name of a diaphragm or membranous septum, such as is described by Cloquet as the septum crurale, and is, surgically, of no ^ importance. ' In some cases the fascia propria so much resembles the hernial sac, that it is not easy to distinguish between them. Generally speaking, they are separated by a small quantity of fat.