319 BRACHIAL PLEXUS OF NERVES. internally by the long head of the triceps (fig. 77). It then winds round the back of the neck of the humerus, and is chiefly distributed to the under surface of the deltoid. Besides the deltoid, the posterior circumflex artery supplies the long head of the triceps, the head of the humerus, and the shoulder-joint. It inosculates above with the acromio-thoracic and suprascapular arteries, below with the ascending branch of the superior profunda (a branch of the brachial), and in front with the anterior circumflex artery. Should you not find the posterior circumflex artery in its normal position, look for it (as a branch of the brachial) below the tendon of the teres major. g. The anterior circumjlex artery, much smaller than the posterioi', runs in front of the neck of the humerus, above the tendon of the latissimus dorsi. It passes directly outwards beneath the coraco- brachialis and short head of the biceps, close to the bone, and terminates in the under surface of the deltoid, where it inosculates with the posterior circumflex. The anterior circumflex artery sends a small branch which runs with the long tendon of the biceps up the groove of the humerus, and is called, on that account, the bicijntal artery. It supplies the shoulder- joint and the neck of the humerus. If the axillary were tied below the pectoralis minor, the colla- teral circulation would be established by the suprascapular, and its branclies anastomosing with the subscapiilar, the dorsalis scapula, and the posterior circumflex; the posterior scapular with the dor- salis scapulge and subscapular arteries.• AvTT.T.AR V . "^^^ axillary vein is formed by the continuation upwards of the basilic vein, and extends from the lower border of the teres major to the outer border of the first rib. It receives the venas comites of the brachial artery near the lower border of the subscapularis. It receives the subscapular and the other veins corresponding to the branches of the axillary artery, with, the exception of the circumflex, which usually join either the subscapular or one of the ven£e comites. The axillary near its termination also receives the cephalic vein. ' The axillary artery varies much as to the branches it gives off: occasionally (1 in 33) it gives off the radial artery; more rarely (1 in 72) it gives oif the ulnar; and more rarely still (1 in 506) it gives oil' the interosseous artery.