THE UTERUS. 565 with rougli mai'gins directed forwards. They are well-marked in \-irgins, but repeated parturition and increasing age gradually smooth them down. The use of the vaginal rugas is to excite the sensibility of the glans in coition. They themselves also possess keen sensibility, being richly endowed with papillaa. The mucous membrane is provided with numerous papilla, conical in shape, and covered with a thick lining of squamous epithelium. Tn the submucous tissue, which is very loose, there is a good deal of mus- cular tissue, with a considerable venous plexus, forming a kind of erectile tissue ; in it, also, are found an abundant supply of muci- parous glands, which increase in size and number towards the uterus. The mxiscular coat is arranged in two layers, a longitudinal and a circular, between which there may be demonstrated a number of interlacing fibres passing from one to the other layer. The longi- tudinal fibres are continuous with the superficial muscular fibres of the uterus, while the latter are chiefly aggregated at the orifice of the vagina, forming a kind of sphincter muscle, which is continuous vA\h the external sphincter ani. Superiorly, the vagina is inti- mately attached to the neck of the uterus, while to the rectum it is but loosely connected. The erectile tissue found in the connective tissue forms the chief strength of the vagina, being about one-twelfth of an inch in thick- ness. If this coat be minutely injected, we find that it is composed mainly of a plexus of veins surrounded with numerous fasciculi of unstriped muscular fibres. The uterus is the hollow muscular orgfan which Uterus. . . ■. . receives the ovum, retains it for nine months to bring it to maturity, and then expels it by virtue of its muscular walls. Its situation and peritoneal connections have been described (p. 503). Its axis slants forwards, so that, upon the whole, the axis of the vagina and uterus describes a curve nearly parallel to the axis of the pelvis. The uterus, then, is so situated that it is ready to rise out of the pelvis into the abdomen after the embryo has attained a certain size. The uterus in the unimpregnated state is pyriform, or rather tri- angular with the angles rounded, and is somewhat flattened antero- posteriorly. It is retained in its position by the broad and round