RELATIONS OF THE LIVER. 455 Situation of The liver occupies tlie whole of the right hypo- THE LivEn.. chondi'ium, and extends over the epigastric region, more or less, into the left. Unless the individual be very corpulent we can ascertain during life the extent to which the liver projects below the costal cartilages, and the general dimensions of the organ may be tolerably '^vell told by percussion. Its anterior border is sharp and thin, and presents in the epigastric region a deep notch for the round ligament, and generally projects a little way below the ribs; its posterior border is broad and connected to the diaphragm by the coronary ligament; it is in relation behind with the inferior vena cava, the aorta, and the crura of the diaphragTQ. Its upper convex surface ascends as high as the fifth intercostal space, is accurately adapted to the arch of the diaphragm, and is divided into two unequal parts by the falciform or suspensory ligament; its under surface overlies part of the stomach, and of the duodenum, the right kidney and supra-renal capsule, and the hepatic flexure of the colon. Its right border is thick; its left is thin and sharp. To the diaphragm the liver is connected by folds of peritoneum, called ligaments. One of these, nearly vertical in direction, and caUed the suspensory, or, from its shape, the falciform ligament, is situated a little to the right of the mesial line. The lower and free edge of it contains the impervious remains of the umbilical vein, called the round ligament. The su.spensory ligament, traced backwards, leads to another broad fold extending horizontally from the diaphragm to the posterior border of the liver ; this constitutes the lateral ligament, right or left, according as we trace it on one or the other side of the falciform ligament. The junction of the lateral and falciform ligaments is described by some authors as the coronary ligament. Situation OF The gall-bladder is the reservoir for the bile, THE Gall- and is closely confined by the peritoneum in a BLADDER. sKght depresslou on the under surface of the right lobe of the liver, to which it is connected by areolar tissue ; occa- sionally the gall-bladder is completely surrounded by peritoneum. It is pyriform in shape, and its broad end or fundus, covered with peritoneum, projects beneath the anterior border of the liver opposite the ninth costal cartilage. It measures three to four inches in