THE TONGUE. 254 Papillae of THE Tongue. Fig. 60. anterior p^ilctiine arches, which enclose the palato-glossi; there are also three folds to the epiglottis, termed the r/losso-epitjlottic : two lateral and one median, the latter enclosing a layer of elastic tissue called the fjlosso-epirjlottic ligament. This ligament raises the epiglottis when the tongue is protruded from the mouth; hence the rule of never pulling the tongue forwards when passing a tube into the oesophagus, otherwise the tube might pass into the larynx. The anterior two-thirds of the tongue is studded with numerous small eminences called painllcr.:. these, according to their size and form, are distinguished into three kinds—viz. 'papil- Ice circumvallatce, papilloi fungiformes, and painlloi filiformes (fig. 60). The papillce circumvallatce vary in number frOm eight to twelve, and are arranged at the back of the tongue in two rows, which converge like the branches of the letter V, with the apex backwards, towards the for- amen ca3cum. Each of these papillae is circular, from the -V^^ -fVth of an inch wide, and slightly broader above than below. Each is surrounded by a circular fossa, which itself is bounded by an elevated ring (^valhmi). The papillas are covered with a thick stratum of scaly epithelium, beneath which are numerous secondary papillae. Buried in the epithelium surrounding the sides (but not on the upper surface) of these papUlee, numerous flask-shaped bodies, called the taste-huds, have been discovered. Their bases rest upon the corium, and their apices open upon the surface. Each consists of a cortical and a medullary portion: the cortical is made up of one or more layers of long flattened cells ; the central consists of numerous spindle-shaped cells, whose free extremity projects from the orifice of the taste-bud, while the ■deeper extremity rests in the corium, and is in close connection. UPPER SUKFACE OF THE TONGUE, WITH THE FAUCES AND TONSILS. 1. PapilUu circuniTulIate. 2. PapilltE fungiformes.