764 HIPPOCAMrUS MAJOR. biconvex mass of grey matter, sej^arated from the nucleus caudatus by a broad band of white substance, the internal capsule, and cor- responds with the island of Reil. Eunning parallel with the outer border of the nucleus lenticularis, but separated from it by a thin layer of white substance, the external capsule, is a wavy streak of grey matter, the claustrum, of variable thickness. Outside the claustrum is another layer of white matter, and then we see the indented convolutions of the island of Reil. If a vertical trans- verse section be made through the nucleus lenticularis, it appears triangular and intersected by two white lines, which divide it into three parallel grey bands. Beneath the lenticular nucleus is a mass of grey matter, called the nucleus amygclalce, which causes an elevation at the apex of the roof of the middle horn. TffiNiA Semi- The tcenia semicircularis, or stria terminalis, is ciECDLABis. a narrow semi-transparent band of longitudinal white fibres, which lies in the groove between the corpus striatum and the optic thalamus (fig. 188). In front, it is connected with the anterior crus of the fornix, and descends with it to the corpus mammillare; it passes backwards and outwards, and behind it is lost in the white substance of the middle horn of the lateral ven- tricle. Several veins from the corpus striatum pass underneath the tasnia semicircularis to join the vente Galeni. The upper surface of the tasnia is firmer in structure than its deeper part, and is called the horny hand of Tarinus. HippocAMPTjs The liippocampus major is an elongated convex Major. eminence of grey matter, covered with white, and is situated in the posterior part of the descending horn. It extends to the bottom of the horn, following its curve, where it becomes somewhat expanded and indented on the surface, so as to resemble *he paw of an animal, whence its name, pes hippocampi. Attached to the front concave border of the hippocampus is the posterior crus of the fornix. It corresponds to the hippocampal fissure, which itself is filled with grey matter, which forms the fascia dentata. Hippocampus The hippocampus minor, called also calcar avv' Minor. and ergot, is a rounded eminence, smaller than the preceding, occupying the inner curved wall of the posterior horn.