THE POSTERIOR MEDIASTINUM. 181 the seat of the aneurism, and according to the size, the form, and the position of the tumour. One can understand that compression of the vena cava superior, or either of the brachio-cephalic veins, would occasion congestion and oedema of the parts from which they return the blood; that compression of the trachea or one of the bronchi might occasion dyspnoea, and thus simulate disease of the larynx ; ' that compression of the oesophagus would give rise to symptoms of obstruction. Nor must we forget the immediate idcinity of the thoracic duct and the recurrent nerve,^ and the effects which would be produced by their compression. Can one, then, be surprised that a disease which may give rise to so many different symptoms should be a fertile source of fallacy in diagnosis ? Thus you can understand how aneurisms of the aorta may prove fatal, by bursting into the contiguous tubes or cavities; for instance, into the trachea, the oesophagus, the pleura, or the peri- cardium. You will see, too, why an aneurism of the first part of the arch is so much more dangerous than elsewhere. The reason is, that in this part of its course the aorta is covered only by a thin layer of serous membrane. If an aneurism take place here, the coats of the vessel soon become distended, give way, and allow the blood to escape into the pericardium ; an occurrence which is speedily fatal, because, the pericardium being filled with blood, the heart is prevented from acting. Posterior Media- The posterior mediastinum (p. 163) is formed sTiKUM AND ITS by the reflection of the pleural sac on each side, Contents. from the root of the lung to the sides of the bodies of the dorsal vertebrae. It is bounded in front by the peri- cardium and the roots of the lungs. To obtain a view of it, cut away the ribs nearly as far as their angles, draw out the right lung towards the left side, and fasten it firmly to the left side of the thorax. Remove the pleura of the right side from the ribs, and the posterior aspect of the root of the right lung, and then by a ' In the Museum of Guy's Hospital there is a preparation, No. 1,487, in which laryngotomy was performed under the circumstances described in the text. ' See Med. Gaz., Dec. 22nd, 1843 : a case in which loss of voice was produced by the pressure of an aneurismal tumour upon the left recurrent nerve.