631 ADDUCTOR MUSCLES. a short distance below the crural arch, it is supported by the inner border of the psoas; lower down it runs in front of the pectineus, but separated from it by the profunda vessels ; still lower down, it lies upon the adductor longus, and then upon the adductor raagnus. That part of the artery which extends from the crural arch to the giving off of the profunda, is called the common femoral artery; its continuation beyond the profunda is termed the superficial femoral; and it is the latter vessel which is ligatured for aneurism of the popliteal artery. In the tipper third of the thigh, the artery is situated in Scarpa's triangle, and is comparatively superficial, having in front the skin, superficial fascia and fat, inguinal glands, deep fascia, the fascia lata, the crural branch of the genito-crural nerve, and the sheath of the femoral vessels. About the middle third it is more deeply seated, and is covered in addition by the sartorius ; and lower down by a tendinous aponeurosis, which stretches from the adductor longus and magnus over to the vastus internus. This, which forms part of Hunter's canal, will be examined presently. The femoral artery in Scarpa's triangle lies upon the psoas, th& two branches of the anterior crural nerve to the pectineus, the pro- funda vein, and the pectineus ; to its outer side it has the anterior crural nerve (separated from it by a few fibres of the ilio-psoas), the profunda artery, and the long saphena nerve; to its inner side it has the femoral vein. Adductor This muscle arises from the front surface of the Bretis. body of the os pubis below the spine, and from its descending ramus for about an inch, between the gracilis and the obturator externus ; it widens as it descends outwards and back- wards, and is inserted behind the pectineus into the whole length of the ridge leading from the lesser trochanter to the linea aspera. Behind, it rests upon the posterior division of the obturator vessels: and nerve, and the adductor magnus. Its nerve is derived from the obturator. By reflecting it from its origin, the following muscle is exposed.^ ' Beneath the adductor brevis, and running parallel with the upper border of the adductor magnus, is seen the obturator externus. But the description of this, muscle is deferred till the dissection of the external rotators of the thigh.