803 mis. between the cornea and the lens. The iris divides this space into two unequal parts, called the anterior and poderior chambers (fig. 198) ; these communicate with each other through a circular aperture in the centre of the iris, called the pupil, which is situated a little to the inner side of the iris.' The circumference of the iris is nearly circular, and is immove- ablv connected with the choroid, the ciliary muscle, and through : the ligamentum pectinatum with the cornea. The diameter of the 'i iris is about half an inch, and that of the pupil in man varies from t the ^th to the of an inch. The colour of the iris varies in different subjects, and gives the ■ peculiar tint and brilliancy to the eye. The colouring matter or •pigment is contained in minute cells, pigment cells, lining the anterior and posterior surfaces of the iris, the posterior taking the I name of iivea, from its grape-like coloiir. Pigmented cells are also t found in the substance of the iris. The use of the iris is to regulate the amount of light which fshall be admitted into the eye; for this purpose its inner circum- fference is capable of dilating and contracting according to circum- stances, while its outer circumference is immoveably attached. When the iris is laid under water, and viewed with a low magnifying power, it is seen to be composed of fine fibres converging from all sides towards the jDupil; nany of them unite and form arches, leaving elongated interspaces, which are most marked towards the middle of the iris. In front of the iris is a thin layer of polyhedral cells, which is continuous with that covering the membrane of Descemet, but the <!ells are smaller and more granular. The stroma consists of connective tissue and cells. The fibres >l)f the connective tissue are arranged longitudinally and circularly ; the longitudinal fibres radiate from the circumference towards e pupil, and between them are contained the blood-vessels and erves; the circular fibres are found at the circumference of the , Intermingled in the meshes of this connective tissue and The size and shape of the pupil vary in different animals. In the bullock, deep, horse, &c., it is oblong; in carnivorous quadrupeds it is often a mere vertical ; during the day, but dilates into a large circle at night. 3 F 2