CONVOLUTIONS OF TflE CEREBRUM. 737 surface of the liemispliere, towards its posterior part. It begins as a deep cleft on tlie median surface, about lialf an incli behind the corpus callosum, then ascends nearly vertically, and ends on the external aspect of the cerebrum, about an inch beyond the longitudinal fissure; this latter portion taking the name of the eternal jjarieto-occipital fissure. The fissure of Sylvius is first se'en about the middle of the third month of fcetal life, and is caused by the extension back- wards, and folding upon itself, of the mantle; the fissure of Rolando begins to be developed about the fifth month; and the parieto-occipital fissure between the third and fourth month of uterine life. The primary fissures form the boundaries of the various lobes of which each hemisphere is composed. The frontal lobe is that part of the front portion of the cere- brum, bounded behind by the fissure of Rolando, below by the anterior part of the fissure of Sylvius, and on the median plane by the calloso-marginal fissure. Its inferior part rests on the anterior fossa, and is called the orbital surface, while its convex external surface is called the f rontal surface. The convolutions on its frontal surface are four in number :—The ascending frontal convolution (fig. 175, A.F.) which bounds, in front, the fissure of - Rolando, and is usually connected above and below the fissure with the ascending jDarietal convolution; the union below forming the operculum., the union above part of the ^mra- central lobule; the upper and the lower union of these two convo- lutions thus shut off the fissure of Rolando fr6m joining the fissure < of Sylvius below, and the longitudinal fissure above. . The superior, middle, and inferior frontal convolutions (fig. 175, ^; fii /a) course neai-ly horizontally; the superior runs along the Margin of the longitudinal fissure, the inferior along the lower border of the lobe, arching over the ascending ramus of the Sylvian issure ; the middle is placed between these. In front of theascend- i ig frontal convolution is a vertical fissure, proicentral sulcus, which [trevents the frontal convolutions joining the former convolution. The sulci which map out the frontal convolutions are two, the superior and inferior frontal sidci. 3 B