SUPERIOR RADIO-ULNAR ARTICULATION. 409 The anterior ligament consists of broad tliin ligamentous fibres, attached above to the front of the humerus, above the coro- noid fossa, below to the coronoid process of the ulna and to the orbicular ligament, and continuous on each side with the lateral ligaments. Some of the fibres cross each other at right angles. The posterior ligament is composed of thin loose fibres attached above to the margin of the olecranon fossa, below to the border of the olecranon, and spread over the posterior aspect of the joint. The internal lateral ligament is triangular, and is divided into two portions, an anterior and a posterior. Its anterior part is attached to the front of the internal condyle of the humerus : from this point the fibres radiate, and are inserted along the inner mar- gin of the coronoid process of the ulna. The posterior part is also triangular, and passes from the back part of the internal condyle to the inner border of the olecranon. A band of fibres extends transversely from the olecranon to the coronoid process, across a notch observable on the inner side of the sigmoid cavity: through this notch small vessels pass into the joint. The external lateral ligament is attached to the external condyle of the humerus, and is in intimate connection with the common tendon of the extensors. The fibres spread out as they descend, and are interwoven with the annular ligament surrounding the head of the radius. The preceding ligaments, collectively, form a continuous cap- sule for the joint. SupEBioB The orbicular or annular ligament of the radius Radio-ulnae forms about three-fourths of a ring. Its ends are Articulation. attached to the anterior and posterior borders of the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna, and is broader in the middle than at either end. Its lower border is straight; its upper border is convex, and connected with the anterior and external lateral liga- ments. "With this sigmoid cavity it forms a comj)lete collar, which encircles the head, and part of the neck, of the radius. The loAver part of the ring is narrower than the upper, the better to clasp the neck of the radius, and maintain it more accurately in position. Synovial memh-ane of the elboiv-joint.—Open the joint by a transverse incision in front, and observe the relative adaptation of