CREMASTER MUSCLE. 429 the cartilages of the four lower ribs, and are continuous with the internal intercostal muscles, which they represent in the abdomen. The aponeurosis of the internal oblique is the broad expanded tendinous tissue into which the muscle is anteriorly attached, and is continued to the middle line, where its fibres join those of the opposite side at the linea alba. It extends from the chest to the os pubis, and its fibres run in the same direction as the muscle. At the outer border of the rectus it splits into two layers—an anterior, which passes in front of the rectus in conjunction with the aponeu- rosis of the external oblique ; and a posterior, which, in common with the aponeurosis of the transversalis, passes behind the rectus. The point of division of the aponeurosis presents a semilunar line extending from the os pubis to the cartilage of the eighth rib. This is called the linea semilunaris, through which a hernia occasionally protrudes. The two layers thus form a sheath for the rectus, which, except at the lower fourth behind, is complete. Midway between the umbilicus and the os pubis, the aponeuroses of all the three muscles pass in front of the rectus, so that posteriorly in this situation it has no sheath. The lower free border of the posterior part of the sheath—the semilunar fold of Douglas—marks the situ- ation where the deep epigastric artery enters the substance of the rectus. Ceemaster The cremaster is a thin pale muscle, or the re- McscLE. verse, according to the condition of the subject. It is best to regard it as a detachment of the lowest fibres of the internal oblique, which arise from the middle of Poupart's ligament. Passing along the outer side of the spermatic cord, the fibres descend with it through the external ring, and then arch up again in front of the cord to the spine and crest of the os pubis, forming loops of different lengths, some reaching only as low as the external ring, others lower stUl, whilst the lowest spread out over the tunica vaginalis of the testis. The muscular fibres are frayed out, being connected by loose cellular tissue, and form a covering for tdie testis, called the cremasteric fascia. This muscle is absent in the female. Its nerve comes from the genital branch of the genito-crural, and its artery (cremasteric) from the deep epigastric.