774 THE CEREBELLUM. front of these gangli.^ the fibres radiate outwards in all directions, called the corona radiata. Most of these fibres pass indirectly to the cortical portion of the cerebrum; some proceed direct to the cortex, through the grey ganglionic structure, amongst which are the pyramidal tract, passing to the grey matter in the neighbour- hood of the fissure of Eolando, and the direct sensory tract to the cortex of the occipital lobe. The fibres from the tegmentum are joined by others from the processus a cerebello ad cerebrum, and the corpora quadrigemina, and pass under the optic thalamus, and probably through this body, and radiate outwards, joining the corona radiata to proceed to the temporo-sphenoidal, post-parietal, and occipital lobes. The transverse commissural fibres connect the two hemispheres, and are the corpus callosum, the anterior and posterior commissures. The longitudinal fibres consist of the fornix, the striae longitudi- nales of the corpus callosum, the tasni^ semicirculares, the gyrus fornicatus, the gyrus uncinatus, and the peduncles of the pineal body. THE CEEEBELLUM. The cerehelhim is that portion of the encephalon situated in the occipital fossa, beneath the posterior lobes of the cerebrum, from which it is separated by the tentorium. It measures in its trans- verse diameter from three and a half to four inches, in its antero- posterior diameter two to two and a half inches, and two inches in its vertical diameter. Its form is ellipsoidal, with the long axis transverse. When the arachnoid membrane and the pia mater are removed, it is noticed that its surface is darker, and not arranged in tortuous convolutions like those of the cerebrum. It is covered externally with grey matter, and consists of a multitude of thin laminee disposed in a series of nearly parallel concentric curves, with the concavity forwards. By a little dissection it is easy to separate some of the laminae from each other, and to see that the intervening fissures increase in depth from the centre towards the circumference.