DIGASTRIC TRIANGLE. 91 tlie sternum instead of below it. The celebrated French surgeon Beclard used to relate in his lectures the following occurrence : A student had fallen into the Seine, and was nearly drowned. As he was recovering very gradually, some kind friends attempted to accelerate the process by making an ojDening into the trachea. In so doing they wounded the brachio-cephalic vein. Blood poured into the trachea, and the resu.lt was instantly fatal. Whoever pays attention to this subject in the dissecting-room will soon be convinced of the fact that, not only large veins, but large arteries, occasionally cross the crico-thyroid membrane as well as the trachea, thus showing the necessity of cutting cautiously down to, and fairly exposing, the air tube before we venture to open it. It is preferable, after making the first incision through the skin, to lay aside the sharp knife and to use a blunt one, so that the tissues may be torn rather than cut; by this proceeding the liability to haemorrhage is materially lessened. Wlien the platysma and the cervical fascia have Dissection of . THE SuBMAxiLLAKr beeu Temoved from their attachment to the jaw, Eegion or the the most conspicuous object is the submaxillary Digastric gland. Observe that the fascia is here very strong, and forms for the gland a complete capsule. Be- neath the jaw are several lymphatic glands, from six to ten in number, of which some lie suj)erficial to the salivary gland, others beneath it. These glands recei\e the lymphatics of the face, the tonsils and the tongue. A little dissection will expose a muscle called the digastricus, consisting of two distinct fleshy portions connected by a tendon. They form, with the body of the jaw, a triangle called the digastric, of which we propose to examine the contents. The muscles form- ing its floor are the mylo-hyoideus and hyo-glossus. Under the submaxillary gland is the facial artery, which here runs a tortuous course, and finally turns up over the lower jaw in front of the masseter muscle. Lying on the mylo-hyoideus, under cover of the lower jaw, is the submental artery, accompanied by the mylo-hyoid nerve and artery. Behind the submaxillary gland, and separating it from the parotid, which also is contained within this triangle, is the stylo-maxillary ligament. Ascending and then entering the