800 CHOROID COAT. this very minute varicose fibres run between the epithelial cells, forming the intra-epitlielial plexus. Besides these plexuses, fila- ments are given off from the primary plexus to supply the cornea proper, and the filaments are said by some to be continuous with the anastomosing processes of the cell-spaces. ^ After the removal of the sclerotic coat and the cornea, which constitute the first tunic, we expose the second tunic, consisting of the choroid, the iris, and ciliary processes in front, and of the ciliary ligament and the ciliary muscle. The choroid is the soft and flocculent tunic of the eye, recog- nised by its dark brown colour and great vascularity. It covers the posterior five-sixths of the globe, and is thickest posteriorly, where there is a circular aperture in it for the passage of the optic nerve. In front, the choroid passes beneath the ciliary muscle and ligament with which it is connected, and then extends forwards, terminating in a series of plaited folds, called the ciliary processes. It is connected with the sclerotic by delicate connective tissue, the lamina fusca, through which the ciliary vessels and nerves pass forwards (fig. 199) to the iris. Its inner surface is smooth, and is in contact with the retina, and when detached from it presents a layer of hexagonal pigmented cells, which are now recognised as forming a part of the retinal coat and as part of which it is originally developed. Under the microscope the choroid is seen to Steuoture. consist of two layers, an external and an internal. The choroid is covered externally by a connective tissue layer, similar to the lamina fusca of the sclerotic, and known as the lamina supra-choroidea; it consists of connective tissue intermingled with elastic tissue, and embedded in the meshwork are pig-ment-cells and lymphoid cells. The contiguous surfaces of the lamina fusca and the lamina supra-choroidea are lined with squamous epithehum, having between them a more or less complete lymph-space, which is continuous with that of Tenon's capsule through the apertures in the sclerotic, through which the ciliary vessels and nerves pass. The external layer consists of the larger branches of the blood- vessels ; the arteries (short ciliary) running forwards between the