286 MUSCLES OF THE BACK. upper dorsal and tlie two or three lower cervical vertebrae. Its nerves are derived from the internal posterior branches of the dorsal nerves. h. The semispinalis colli lies beneath the complexus, and a/tises from the transverse processes of the five or six upper dorsal ver- tebras, and the articular processes of the four lower cervical, and is inserted into the spinous processes of the axis and the three or four succeeding vertebra, that into the axis being the most fleshy fasci- culus. It is supplied by the internal posterior branches of the cervical nerves. Now reflect part of the semi-spinalis dorsi in order to expose the multifldus spinae. Mtjltitidus This may be considered a part of the preceding SwNiE. muscle, since its fixed points and the direction of its fibres are the same. It consists of a series of little muscles which extend between the spinous and transverse processes of the vertebras, from the sacrum to the second cervical vertebra. Those in the lumbar region are the largest. In the sacral region the fibres arise from the back of the sacrum as low down as the fourth fora- men, from the deep surface of the aponeurosis of the erector spinte, from the inner part of the posterior superior iliac spine, and from the posterior sacro-iliac ligament; in the lumbar region, from the mammillary processes on the superior articular processes; in the dorsal region, from the transverse processes, and in the cervical region from the articular processes of the four lower cervical ver- tebr£e. They all ascend obliquely, and each fasciculus is inserted into the lamina and spinous process of the vertebra above, except the atlas. It should be observed that their fibres are not of uniform length ; some extend only from vertebra to vertebra, while others extend between one, two, or even three vertebra. It is supplied by the internal posterior branches of the sacral, lumbar, dorsal, and cervical nerves. EoTATOEEs Beneath the multifidus spinse, in the dorsal Spin*. region of the spine only, are eleven flat and some- what square muscles, called rotatores spince. They a-nse from the upper and back part of the transverse processes, and are inse^-ted into the lower border of the laminge of the vertebra above. These