LINGUAL ARTERY. 105 and the ramus of the lower jaw, and curves forwards towards the side of the tongue over the superior constrictor of the pharynx, along the upper part of the hyo-giossus, at the anterior border of which it crosses, superficially, the duct of the submaxillary gland (fig. 29). Having reached the under part of the tongue, the nerve di\ddes into numerous branches which pierce the muscular struc- ture of the tongue, and then break up into filaments which supply the mucous membrane and the fungiform and filiform papillas on its anterior three-fourths. Beneath the external pterygoid it is joined at an acute angle by the chorda tympani, a branch of the facial nerve ; in its course it gives off some communicating branches to the hypoglossal nerve near the anterior border of the liyo-giossus. It supplies also the mucous membrane of the mouth, gums, and the sublingual gland, one or more branches to the submaxillary ganglion, and at the apex of the tongue the terminal branches of this ne^^•e and the hypoglossal are connected. SuBJiAxiLLAEY At thc lower border of the gustatory nerve as- Ganglion. it lies upon the hyo-glossus muscle, and before it crosses the submaxillary duct, you will find a small, convex, tri- angular ganglion, about the size of a pin's head. Like the other ganglia in connection with the branches of the fifth pair, it receives filaments of communicaiion of three different kinds—viz. motor, sensory, and sympathetic. Its motor root is the chorda tympani, derived from the facial nerve : its sensory branches proceed from the gustatory ; and its connection with the sympathetic system is established bv a branch which comes from the nervi moUes round the facial artery. The ganglion supplies five or six branches of distrihntion to the submaxillary gland, its duct, and the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth. Meckel describes a small branch of the ganglion which sometimes passes forwards to join a branch of the hypoglossal, on the hyo-glossus m., and ends in the genio-hyo-glossus. Lingual The lingual artery is generally the second Artery. branch of the external carotid. Curving slightly upwards and inwards from its origin, the artery soon runs forwards round the great comu of the hyoid bone, beneath the posterior belly of the digastricus and stylo-hyoideus, and then passes