376 rOSTERIOR SCAPULAR NERVE. derived from branches of the axillary ; c. a small siibacapular branch to the fossa of the same name ; d. articular arteries to the shoulder- joint ; and, lastly, e. the in/raspinous branch, which anastomoses Avith the dorsalis scapulte. The suprascapular vein terminates either in the subclavian or in the external jugular. The siqjrascaimlar nerue, a branch of the fifth and sixth cer- vical nerves, runs vrith the corresponding artery, and, after pass- ing through the suprascapular notch, is distributed to the supra- spinatus and infraspinatus. In the supraspinous fossa, this nerve sends a small articular branch to the shoulder-joint; in the infra- spinous fossa it gives off two branches to the infraspinatus, and some to the shoulder-joint. PosTEEioR This artery is one of the divisions of the trans- ScATULAR versa] is colli, but comes very frequently from the Abtery. subclavian in the third part of its course (p. 121). It runs across the lower part of the neck, above, or between the nerves of the brachial plexus, towards the posterior superior angle of the scapula. Here it pursues its course along the posterior border of the scapula beneath the levator angulis capulae and the rhomboidei, anastomosing with branches of the suprascapular and subscapular arteries, and with branches from the intercostal arteries. The corresponding vein joins the external jugular or the subclavian. Divide the rhomboid muscles near their inser- DissECTioN. tion, and trace the artery to the inferior angle of the scapula, where it terminates in the rhomboidei, serratus magnus, and latissimus dorsi. Numerous muscular branches arise from the posterior scapular. The superficialis colli (the other division of the transversalis coUi) is given off near the upper angle of the scapula for the supply of the trapezius, which it enters together with the spinal accessory nerve. Divide and reflect the latissimus dorsi below the inferior angle of the scapula, and draw the scapula forcibly outwards, to have a more perfect view of the extent of the serratus magnus than was seen in the axilla. The abundance of connective tissue in this situation is necessary for the play of the scapula on the chest.