INTERVERTEBRAL FIBRO-CARTILAGES. 297 and it bulges when no longer under pressure. Thus the bodies of the vertebrge, in their motions upon each other, revolve upon an elastic cushion tightly girt all round by bands of fibrous tissue. These motions are regulated by the articular processes. Dissect an intervertebral substance layer after layer in front, and you will find that the circumferential fibres extend obliquely between the vertebrge, crossing each other like the branches of the letter X (fig. 72). The thickness of the intervertebral cartilages is not the same in front and behind. It is this difference in their thickness, more than that in the bodies of the vertebra, which produces the several curves of the spine. In the lumbar and cervical regions they are thicker in front; in the dorsal region, behind. The structure of the uitervertebral cartilages explains the well- knoAvn fact that a man becomes shorter after standing for some hours ; and that he regams his usual height after rest. The difference between the morning and evening stature amounts to more than half an inch. It also explains the fact that a permanent lateral curvature of the spiue may be produced (especially in the young) by the habitual practice of leaning to this or that side. Experience proves that the cause of lateral curvature depends more frequently upon some alteration in the structure of the fibro-cartilages than upon the bones. From an exami- nation of the bodies of one hundred and thirty-four individuals with crooked spines, it was concluded that, in two-thirds, the bones were perfectly healthy ; that the most frequent cause of curvature resided in the intervertebral substances, these being, on the concave side of the curve, almost absorbed, and, on the convex side, preternaturally deve- loped. As might be expected in these cases, the muscles on the convex side become lengthened, and degenerate in structure.^ LiG^uiENTUM This ligament is a thin fibrous septum inter- ^'^''H^- mingled with elastic tissue, situated in the middle line, and extends from the spinous processes of the cervical ver- tebra to the external occipital protuberance. It forms an inter- muscular septum down the back of the neck, and may be regarded aS-the continuation upwards of the supraspinous ligament. Capsulab Each joint between the articular processes has LiGAiiKNTs. a synovial membrane surrounded by loose liga- ' On this subject see Hilclebrandt's Anatomic, B. ii. s. 155.