596 STRUCTURE OF THE SUPRA-RENAL CAPSULES. into the interior of tlie gland, which communicate at frequent intervals by transverse bands. There are thus formed numerous spaces which communicate with each other; the spaces at the surface are smaller, while those towards the centre are longer; the section through the cortex gives the appearance of a fine network, the external portion taking the name of the zona glomerulosa, the internal portion that of the zona reticularis, the intermediate portion that of the zona fasciculata. The reticular tissue is made up of fibrous tissue with longitudinal bundles of unstriped muscular tissue. The interspaces are occupied by granular, polyhedral cells, from „ pth to 7-3^0^^ °f inch, which do not fill the spaces, so that between them and the walls of the spaces there are intervals, believed to be spaces which communicate with the lymphatics in the trabecular tissue. The medullary portion varies in colour according to the amount of blood contained in it, being sometimes of a dark-brown colour, sometimes nearly white. Not infrequently the medullary part is converted into a cavity, but this is jDrobably a post-mortem change. It consists of a plexus of minute veins, supported by the delicate areolar tissue containing muscular fibres, and presents a reticular aspect. Among these are numerous granular and branched cells.' The arteries to the gland are conveyed along the trabecular tissue, and, after supplying the gland-tissue, converge to the centre, where the blood is returned into the venous plexuses in the medullary portion. They are derived from the abdominal aorta, the phrenic and the renal arteries. The vein begins in the centre as a single vessel, and joins, on the right side, the inferior vena cava, and on the left side the left renal vein. The lymphatics terminate in the lumbar glands. The mrves are derived from the solar and renal plexuses, and in them are found numerous ganglia. They are distributed chiefly to the medullary portion.^ Of late years the minute structure and functions of the supra-renal capsules have been much investigated, ' The medullary cells are stained a deep brow colour on the addition of bichromate ofjpotash, the cortical cells being scarcely affected by it. Luschka states that the branched granular cells of the medullary portion are connected with the nerve-fibres.