352 ANTERIOR INTEROSSEOUS ARTERY. ridge above, and tlie pronator quadratus below, and from tbe inter- osseous membrane.• Its tendon, wliicli begins on the ulnar side of the muscle, proceeds beneath the annular ligament to the base of the last phalanx of the thumb. Its nerve comes from the inter- osseous branch of the median. PRONiTOR This square muscle arises from the lower fourth Quadratus. of the ulna and from a strong aponeurosis which covers its anterior surface ; its fibres pass, some transversely, some obliquely outwards, and are inserted into the lower fourth of the anterior surface and the outer border of the radius. It pronates the radius on the ulna. Its nerve proceeds from the interosseous branch of the median. Anterior Nearly on a level with the insertion of the Interosseous biceps, the ulnar artery gives off from its outer Artery. gj^g ^-^q covimon interosseous, which runs back- wards for about an inch, and divides into the anterior and imsterior interosseous. The anterior interosseous artery runs down on the interosseous membrane, lying deeply between the flexor profundus digitorum and flexor longus pollicis. At the upper edge of the pronator quadratus it divides into two branches; one of which, the smaller, passes beneath the muscle, supplies it and the front of the carpal bones, communicating with the anterior carpal arteries from the radial and ulnar ; the other, the more important, perforates the interosseous membrane, and helps to supply the muscles on the back of the forearm. A branch, the arteria comes nervi mediani, proceeds from the anterior interosseous. It lies in close contact with the nerve, sometimes in its very ceiitre : though usually of small size, it may be as large as the ulnar artery itself, and, in such cases, it passes under the annular liga- ment with the nerve to join the palmar arch. This is interesting, because it helps to explain the recurrence of hsemorrhage from a wound in the palm, even after the radial and uhaar arteries liave been tied. The anterior interosseous artery gives off branches to the muscles on each side ; also the nutrient arteries which enter the radius and uhia, near the centre of the forearm, to supply the medullary membrane ; these arteries pass upwards towards the elbow. ' Sometimes by a slip from the ooronoid process.