509 SUPERFICIAL FASCIA OF THE PERINEUM. hranch, supplies the external sphincter and the skin of the perineum L between the coccyx and the anus. The inferior pudendal nerve comes through the muscular fascia , of the thigh, a little above the tuber ischii, and ascends, dividing into filaments, which supply the front and outer part of the scrotum ;■ and perineum. It is a branch of the lesser sciatic nerve, and com- ; municates in front with the posterior branch of the superficial I perineal nerve. Superficial The subcutaneous fascia of the perineum is ' Fascia of the composed of a superficial and a deep layer. The i Peeeseum. superficial layer contains more or less fat, and is > continuous with that of the scrotum, the thighs, and the posterior : part of the perineum, ' The deeper layer is a stratum of consider- i able strength, and is best demonstrated by blowing air beneath it ■• with a blow-pipe ; its connections are as follows :—It is attached on each side to the anterior lip of the ramus of the os pubis and ischium superficial to the crus penis; traced forwards, ifc is directly continuous with the tunica dartos of the scrotum; traced i backwards, at the base of the urethral triangle, it is reflected ! beneath the transversus perinei muscle, and joins the deei? I pei^neal fascia or triangular ligament. These connections explain why urine, effused into the perineum, does not make its way into the ischio-rectal fossEe, or down the thighs, but passes readily forwards into the connective tissue of the scrotum, penis, and groins. Remove the fascia to see the muscles which cover the bulb of the urethra and the crura of the penis. The bulb of the urethra lies in the middle of the perineum, and is covered by a strong muscle, called accelerator urinse. The crura penis are attached, one to each side of the pubic arch, and are covered each by a muscle, called erector penis. A narrow slip of muscle, called transversus perinei, extends on either side from the tuber ischii to the tendinous centre of the perineum. This point is about one inch and a quarter in front of the anus, and serves for the attachment of muscular fibres from all quarters of the perineum. Thus the muscles of the perineum describe on each side a.