BRANCHES OF THE PNEUMOGASTRIC IN THE CHEST. 187 The plexus then reunites into a single trunk, consisting also of some fibres from the left pneumogastric, and passes into the abdo- men through the oesophageal opening in the diaphragm. The left pneumogastric descends into the chest between the left subclavian and carotid arteries, and behind the left brachio-cephalic vein. It then crosses in front of the arch of the aorta, and passes behind the root of the left lung to the anterior surface of the oesophagus, upon which it also assists to form a plexus with the nerve of the right side. The branches of the pneumogastric nerve in the chest are as follow :— a. The inferior laryngeal or recurrent.—This nerve on the right side turns under the subclavian and the common carotid arteries (p. 114); on the left, under the arch of the aorta, below the ductus arteriosus, and ascends to the larynx. It passes beneath the inferior thyroid artery, and lying in the groove between the trachea and oesophagus, it enters the larynx beneath the lower border of the inferior constrictor of the pharynx. It supplies with motor nerves all the muscles which act upon the rima glotticUs, except the crico-thyroid (supplied by the external laryngeal nen^e). As they turn beneath their respective arteries, they give off branches to the deep cardiac plexus ; also some small filaments to the inferior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. In the neck it distributes small branches to the trachea, oesophagus, and inferior constrictor muscle. b. Cardiac branches.—These are very small, and joua the cardiac plexuses ; the right arise from the right pneumogastric, and the right recurrent laryngeal, close to the trachea ; the left come from the left recurrent laryngeal neiwe. On both sides these branches pass to the deep cardiac plexus. c. Pulmonary branches.—These accompany the bronchial tubes. The greater number run behind the root of the lung, and constitute the jjosterior pulmonary plexus. A few, forming the anterior pul- monary plexus, supply the front part of the root of the lung. Both these plexuses are joined by filaments from the second, third, and fourth thoracic ganglia of the sympathetic. The nerves of the lungs are, however, very small, and cannot be traced far into their substance.' d. (Esophac/eal plexus.—Below the root of the lung each pneumo- gastric nerve is subdivided so as to form an interlacement of nerves round the a'sophagus (plexus gulre). From this plexus numerous ' Upon this subject, see the beautiful plates of Scarpa.