PARTS CONCERNED IN INGUINAL HERNIA. 440 DISSECTION OF THE PABTS CONCEENED IN INGUINAL HEENIA. ^ The student has now completed the dissection on the right side, and, having mastered the general anatomy of this region, he may pass on to the special consideration of the anatomy of inguinal hernia. If the instructions before given have been duly observed, the left side is available for this purpose; and, although it may be well that the dissector (especially for the first time) should have the advantage of the parts being made clear by his demonstrator, there is no real difiiculty in making out the different layers which constitute the coverings of a hernia, or the various parts through which a hernia travels. It will be remembered that on the left side the dissection has been carried as far as the exposure of the internal oblique and cremaster. An incision must now be made through the external oblique, from a point midway between the umbilicus and the os pubis, transversely outwards to the anterior superior iliac spine, and another from the same point downwards in the middle line through the linea alba as far as the symphysis pubis. When this flap has been turned downwards, the dissector will see that it is aponeurotic, and he can take the opportunity of making out the external abdo- minal ring and the external spermatic fascia which is prolonged downwards from the pillars of the ring, as also the intercolumnar bands which strengthen the upper part of the ring. The internal oblique now comes into view, and its origin from Poupart's ligament must be carefully made out, together with the cremaster muscle, which loops in front of the cord, and which can be seen coming under the arched fibres of this muscle. Next, tie internal oblique should be reflected from Poupart's ligament and the iliac crest by a transverse incision to the extent of that through the external oblique. The flap should then be re- flected inwards, care being taken not to reflect with it the sub- jacent muscle (transversalis) ; this may be prevented by looking for a branch of the deep circumflex iliac artery, which runs along the crest of the ilium between these muscles. The turning back