EXTENSOR MUSCLES. 634 tliigli, and is inserted into tlie common extensor tendon, wliicli will be presently examined. The structure of this muscle is remark- able. A tendon runs down the centre, and the muscular fibres are inserted on either side of it, like the vane on the shaft of a feather. Notice also that the surface of the upper part of the rectus is aponeurotic in front and muscular behind, while the reverse is seen at the lower part not far from its insertion. Its nerve comes from the anterior crural.' Triceps Ex- This mass of muscle invests like a cloak the TENSOR, greater part of the front and sides of the shaft of the femur ; therefore, the whole of it cannot be seen without com- pletely dissecting the thigh. It consists of an outer, middle, and inner portion, caiUed, respectively, the vastus externus, the crureus, and the vastus internus. The vastus externus arises by a strong glistening aponeurosis from the outer side of the base of the great trochanter, from the upper third of the anterior intertrochanteric ridge, from the rough line leading from the greater trochanter to the linea aspera external to the gluteus maximus, from the outer lip of the linea aspera nearly down to the external condyle, and also slightly from the external intermuscular septum. From this origin the fibres pass downwards, forwards, and inwards, and end in a flattened tendon, which is inserted into the outer border of the patella to form part of the- common extensor tendon to be presently described. The vastus internus and crureus should be described aS one- muscle, for they are inseparably connected. They arise conjointly by an aponeurosis commencing. a short distance below the inner two-thirds of the anterior intertrochanteric ridge, from the upper three-fourths of the front and inner surfaces of the shaft of the femur, from the entire length of the inner lip of the linea aspera, and from the internal intermuscular septum. The outer bundle of muscular fibres—the crureus—passes vertically downwards; the inner—the vastus internus—descends forwards and outwards, and both are inserted by a common aponeurosis into the upper and the ' An accurate description of this muscle is given by W. E. ■Williams, Jonrn. of Afiat. mid Phys., vol. xiii. p. 204, in which he states that the reflected head of the rectus is its real origin, as it alone exists in early fcetal life.