285 MUSCLES OF THE BACK. The muscles of the spine hitherto examined are all longitudinal in their direction. We now come to a series which run obliquely from the transverse to the spinous processes of the vertebrae. And first of the complexus. ^ This powerful muscle arises by tendinous slips from the transverse processes of the three ot> four upper dorsal and the last cervical vertebrae, also from the articular processes of four or five cervical vertebra and their capsular liga- ments. It is inserted between the two curved lines of the occiput, near the vertical crest. In the centre of the muscle there is generally a transverse tendinous intersection. The muscle is perforated by the posterior branches of the second (the great occipital), third, and fourth cervical nerves. It is chiefly supplied by the great occipital nerve. Its action is to maintain the head erect. BivENTER Is placed in the inner side of the preceding Cervicis. muscle and frequently forms part of it. It has an intermediate tendon, and arises from the transverse processes of two or three upper dorsal vertebrae, and ascends between the liga- mentum nuchfe and the complexus, to be inserted into the inner- most depression between the two curved lines of the occipital bone. Cut transversely through the middle of the complexus, and reflect it to see the arteria cervicalis profunda (p. 123), and the posterior branches of the cervical nerves. Dissection to Remove the complexus, and then turn aside EXPOSE THE Fifth the erector spina9 and its prolongations, when the Layer. jj^j-^j^ layer of muscles will be seen occupying the interval between the spinous and transverse processes. Tbansverso- This is the mass of muscle which lies in the SPINALIS. vertebral groove after the reflection of the com- plexus and the erector spinae. It consists of a series of fibres which extend from the transverse and articular processes to the spinous processes of the dorsal and cervical vertebrae, and is for convenience divided into the semispinalis dor si and semispinalis colli. a. The semispinalis dor si arises by long thin tendinous slips from the transverse processes of the dorsal vertebrae, from the sixth to the tenth, and is inserted into the spinous processes of the four