MUSCLES OF THE BACK. 283 MosccLus By turning outwards the ilio-costalis, we AccEssoKius. observe that it is continued upwards under the name of miisculus accessorkis ad ilio-costalem. This arises by a series of tendons from the angles of the six lower ribs, internal to the preceding, and is inserted by muscular slips into the angles of the six upper ribs. Cervicalis This is the cervical continuation of the musculus AscENDENs. accessorius. It arises by tendinous slips from the angles of the four or five upper ribs, internal to the musculus accessorius, and is irpserted into the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the fourth, fifth and sixth cervical ver- tebrae. LoNGissnrns The longissimtis dorsi (the inner portion of the DoBsi. erector spinee) terminates in tendons which are inserted, internally, into the tubercles ' at the root of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae, into the tubercles of the articular processes of the same vertebree, into the middle layer of the fascia lumborum, also into the transverse processes of all the dorsal vertebrae and, externally, into the greater number of the ribs (vary- ing from eight to eleven) between their tubercles and angles. Transversaiis This is the cervical continuation of the longissi- CoLLi. mus dorsi. It arises by long tendinous slips from the tips of the transverse processes of the five or six upper dorsal vertebrae, and is inserted into the posterior tubercles of the trans- verse processes of the four or five lower cervical vertebrae except the last. Trachelo- This muscle, situated on the inner side of the MASTOID. preceding, and external to the complexus, is the internal continuation of the longissimus dorsi to the cranium. It arises from the transverse processes of the three or four upper dorsal, and the articular processes of the three or four lower cervical ver- tebrae, and is inserted by a flat tendon into the back part of the mastoid process beneath the splenius.'^ ' Called anapophyses by Professor Owen. - Those who are familiar with the transcendental nomenclature of the verte- brate skeleton will understand from the following quotation the plan upon which the muscles of the back are arranged :— ' The muscles of the back are either longitudinal or oblique : that is, they either pass vertically downwards from spinous process to spinous process, from diapo-