309 INFRA-CLAVICULAR REGION. covering the shoulder, is an interval varying in extent in clifFerent subjects, but always more marked towards the clavicle. It contains a small artery—the thoracica humeraria—and the cephalic vein, which ascends on the outer side of the arm, and empties itself into the axUlary. This interval is the proper place to feel for the cora- coid process. In doubtful injuries about the shoulder, this point of bone is a good landmark in helping the surgeon to arrive at a correct diagnosis. The pectoralis major is supplied with nerves by the anterior thoracic branches of the brachial plexus; with blood, by the long and short thoracic branches of the axillary artery. Dissection Reflect the clavicular part of the pectoralis Anatomy of the major by detaching it from the clavicle, and turn Ini-ka-clavictjlab it downwards ; in doing so, notice a small nerve, Eegion. external anterior thoracic, which enters the under surface of this part of the muscle. Beneath the portion thus reflected, part of the pectoralis minor will be exposed. In this triangle—bounded, above, by the clavicle ; below, by the upper border of the sternal origin of the pectoralis major; and, on the outer side, by the deltoid—is an important space in which the relative position of the following objects must be carefully ex- amined :— CosTo-coRAcoiD «• A stroug ligamcntous expansion, called the Membrane. costo-coracoid meynbrane, extends from the car- tilage of the first rib to the coracoid process. Between these points it is attached to the clavicle, and forms a complete investment for the subclavius muscle. Its lower crescent-shaped edge arches over, and protects the axillary vessels and nerves ; from this edge is prolonged downwards a funnel-shaped fascia, which covers the axillary vessels, forming the anterior portion of their sheath; the posterior being formed by a prolongation of the deep cervical •fascia. The front portion of this sheath is perforated by the cephalic vein, the thoracica acromialis artery and vein, the ante- rior thoracic nerves, and the superior thoracic artery. This fascia must be removed. h. The subclavius muscle enclosed in its fibrous sheath. c. The axillary vein, artery, and brachial plexus of nerves.