700 MOVEMENTS AT THE HIP-JOINT. in wliicli its range of motion is the most restrictsd; for the acces- sory ligaments of the capsule prevent it from being extended beyond a straight line, and the ligamentum teres prevents its rolling towards the opposite side. This arrangement economises muscular force in balancing the trunk. The atmospheric pressure is, of itself, sufficient to keep the limb suspended from the pelvis, supposing all muscles and liga- ments to be divided. When fluid is efi'used into the hip-joint, the bones are no longer maintained in accurate contact; and it some- times happens that the head of the femur escapes from its cavity, giving rise to a spontaneous dislocation. The movements at the liip-joint are those of flexion, extension, abduction, adduction, rotation, and circumduction. The flexors are, the ilio-psoas, the sartorius, the pectineus, the adductor longus and brevis, the gluteus medius and mini- mus. The extensors are, the gluteus maximus, the biceps, semi- tendinosus, and the semimembranosus. The abductors are, the upper fibres of the gluteus maximus, the gluteus medius and minimus, the pyriformis, and, when the joint is flexed, the obturator internus and the two gemelli. The adductors are, the three adductors, the pectineus, the gra- cilis, and the sartorius. The external rotators are, the ilio-psoas, the three adductors, the pectineus, the gluteus maximus, the posterior fibres of the gluteus medius, the obturator externus and internus, the gemelli, the quadratus femoris, the pyriformis, and the sartorius. The internal rotators are, the tensor fasciae femoris, the anterior fibres of the gluteus medius, and the gluteus minimus. Circumduction is effected by the successive action of the different muscles in the order of their attachment into the femur. The muscles in immediate relation with the hip-joint are, in front, the iliacus and psoas ; on the outer side, the reflected tendon of the rectus, the gluteus minimus; behind, the pyriformis, gemel- lus superior, obturator internus, gemellus inferior, obturator ex- ternus, and quadratus femoris; on the inner side, the pectineus and obturator externus.