NASAL NERVE IN THE OIUilT. 56 sixth nerves passing between tlie two heads of the external rectus to their respective destinations. The ophthalmic .artery and its branches may also at this stage be exposed and cleaned. This is one of the three divisions of the oph- NaSAL NeBVE. 1 PI or., 1. „ thaimic branch oi the nith, and is usually the first branch given off (fig. 19, p. 50). It enters the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure between the two origins of the external rectus, and between the two divisions of the third n. It then crosses obliquely over the optic nerve, beneath the levator palpebra? and the superior rectus, towards the inner wall of the orbit. After giving off the mfrco-trochlear branch, the nerve passes out of the orbit between the superi^- oblique and internal rectus, through the anterior ethmoidal foramen, into the cranium, where it lies beneath the dura mater, upon the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. It soon leaves the cranium through the nasal slit near the crista galli, and enters the nose. Here it divides into two branches—an inner or t<e2>t(d, which supplies the mucous membrane of the front of the septum; and an outer, the main continuation of the nerve—which runs in a groove on the under surface of the nasal bone, and distributes branches to the pituitary membrane of the outer part of the nose and the two lower turbinated bones ; it also gives off a superficial branch, which emerges between the nasal bone and the cartilage, under the name of the naso-lohular, and is distributed to the skin of the tip and ala of the nose (p. 49). The nasal nerve gives off the following branches in the orbit:— a. One slender filament to the lenticular ymujlion (formuig its upper or long root) is given off from the nasal nerve as it passes between the heads of the external rectus close to the optic nerve. It is about half an inch long, and enters the posterior-superior angle of the ganglion. h. Two or thi'ee long ciliary nerves. They run along the inner side of the optic nerve to the back of the globe of the eye. They are joined by filaments from the lenticular ganglion, and pass through the sclerotic coat to supply the iris (fig. 22). (,'. Infra-trocldear nerve.—This runs forwards along the imier side of the orbit, below the pulley of the superior oblique, where it communi- cates with the supra-trochlear branch of the frontal nerve. It jjasses to the inner angle of the orbit, and divides into filaments, which supply the