477 THE DIAPHRAGM, reaches as higli as tlie lower border of tlie eleventh rib; tlie left kidney is in contact above with, the spleen, and reaches to the level of the upper border of the eleventh rib. The iJosterior surface is flat and lies on the corresponding crus of the diaphragm, the quad- ratus lumborum, and the psoas, separated however by the anterior layer of the aponeurosis of the transversalis; the outer harder is convex, and looks towards the parietes ; the inner border presents a deep notch, the hihim, continuous with a cavity, the simis, through which pass the renal artery and vein, the ureter, the renal plexus of nerves and lymphatics, surrounded by connective tissue and fat. The vessels and duct have the following relations :— anteriorly is the renal vein, posteriorly is the ureter, the renal artery being between them. The ureter descends almost vertically on the psoas muscle, enters the pelvis over the division of the com- mon iliac artery, and empties itself into the lower part of the bladder after running obliquely through its coats. The kidney, below, de- scends nearly as low as the crest of the ilium, and is not so broad as the Dissection. upper extremity. The kidneys and supra-renal capsules must be removed and reserved for further examination. Semtlunae The semilunar ganglia, two in number, are con- GANGLL4.. tained in the solar plexus, and are situated one on each side of the coeliac axis, in the neighbourhood of the supra- renal bodies ; that on the right side will be found lying under the vena cava inferior. They consist of irregular ganglionic masses. Above, each ganglion receives the great splanchnic nerve (p. 189), and the two ganglia are connected on their inner sides. Filaments are distributed to the supra-renal and renal plexuses and to the plexuses which surround the branches of the abdominal aorta. The branches of the solar plexus will be described later on. DiAPHBA 1 T^his is a partly muscular and partly tendinous arch, so constructed as to form a complete move- able partition between the chest and the abdomen : a floor for the one, and a roof for the other. Its upper or thoracic surface is con- vex ; its lower or abdominal, concave. On removing its peritoneal coat, and a thin fascial covering from the transversalis fascia, we observe a broad tendon in the centre, and that muscular fibres ' Std(ppayfia, a partition wall.