LIGAMENTS OF THE KNEE-JOINT. * 704 thickest at the circumference, and gradually shelve off to a thin margin: thus they fit in between the bones, and adapt a convex surface to a flat one, as shown in fig. 163. Their form is suited to the condyles, the inner being oval, the outer circular, and the synovial membrane covers both surfaces of the cartilages. The external semilunar Jibro-cartilage is nearly a circular ring of fibro-cartilage, its two extremities being firmly attached to the fossEe, one in front of and the other behind the spine of the tibia; they are enclosed by the two extremities of the internal cartilage. On its outer border it presents a groove for the tendon of the popliteus; its anterior border gives off a transverse fibrous fascicu- lus, the transverse ligament, which passes across to be connected with the anterior border of the internal cartilage. The anterior extremity of the fibro-cartilage is connected with the anterior crucial ligament; the posterior is attached partly into the outer side of the inner tuberosity in front and behind the posterior crucial ligament, and partly into the anterior crucial ligament.' The intermd semilunar fibro-cartilage forms about two-thirds of an oval ring, and is narrower in front than behind. Its anterior extremity is pointed, and is attached to the tibia internal to the anterior crucial ligament; its posterior extremity to the pit behind the spine immediately in front of the posterior crucial ligament. The transverse ligament, already alluded to, is a thin fibrous fasciculus in front of the anterior crucial ligament, and connects the anterior borders of the semilunar fibro-cartilages. The coronary ligaments are two ligaments which connect the circumference of the two semilunar cartilages to the borders of the tibial tuberosities. The external ligament is the weaker of the two, so that the external cartilage is the more moveable. SYNoviAii The synovial membrane is very extensive, the Membhane. most extensive in the body. It lines the posterior surface of the quadriceps tendon, and the aponeuroses of the vasti, ' Of the two cartilages the external has the greater freedom of motion, because in rotation of the knee the outer side of the tibia moves more than the inner. Consequently, it is not in any way connected to the external lateral ligament; so far from this, it is separated from it by the tendon of the jjopliteus, of which the play is facilitated by a bursa communicating freely with the joint. For this reason the external cartilage is more liable to dislocation than the internal.