MYLO-HYOIDEUS. 99 pterygoid m. to the pharynx, to which and the neighbouring parts it gives bi-anches. Ascending as far as the levator palati, it divides into two brandies : one courses along the tensor palati to supply the soft palate ; the other enters the tonsil, and anastomoses with the descending palatine of the internal maxillary, and with the tonsillar branches of the ascending pharyngeal. 2. The tonsillar runs up between the internal pterygoid and the stylo-glossus m. ; then, perforating the superior constrictor, it supplies the tonsil and root of the tongue. 3. Glcmcholar branches to the submaxillary gland and side of tongue. 4. The submental arises from the facial behind the submaxillary gland, and runs forwards upon the mylo-hyoideus, beneath the inferior maxilla, distributing branches in its course to the gland and the adjacent muscles. It then curves over the bone and divides into two branches : a superficial one, which supplies the skin and lip ; and a deep one, wliich runs between the muscles and the bone, and inosculates with the mental and inferior labial arteries. Beneath the inferior maxilla it usually inosculates with the sublingual artery. The remaining branclies of the external carotid artery will be described later on. MxLo-HYomEAN Look for tliB mylo-Lyoidean nerve near the sub- Nebve. mental artery. The nerve comes from the inferior dental (before its entrance into tlie dental foramen), and running along a groove on the inner side of the inferior maxilla, advances between the bone and the internal pterygoid m., to supply the mylo-hyoideus and the anterior belly of the digastricus. SuBMAxiLLAEY ^he Submaxillary lymphatic glands receive the Lymphatic lymphatics of the face and the tongue. Tbey are Glands. often enlarged in cancerous diseases of the tongue or the lower lip. It should be remembered also that there are lymphatic glands in the mesial line below the chin. Mylo- The mylo-hyoideus, a triangular muscle, arises HYoiDEus. from the mylo-hyoid ridge of the lower jaw, from the symphysis, as far back as the last molar tooth. Its posterior fibres are inserted into the body of the os hyoides, the anterior being attached to a median tendinous line, termed the rai)h(i. Thus the muscles of opposite sides form a muscular floor for the mouth. Superficially, it is in relation with the anterior belly of H 2