78S MEMBRANES OF THE SPINAL CORD, adhere to the bones, being separated from them by fat, loose areolar tissue, and the plexus of veins described above. Moreover, such adhesion would impede the free movements of the vertebrae upon each other. It is attached firmly above to the mairgin of the foramen magnum, and by slender tissue to the posterior common ligament, and may be traced downwards as a sheath as far as the second bone of the sacrum, from which it is prolonged as a fibrous cord to the coccyx, where it becomes continuous with the periosteum. It forms a complete canal or bag (theca) which sur- rounds loosely the spinal cord, and is relatively larger in the cer- vical and lumbar regions than in the dorsal. On each side are two openings in the dura mater for the anterior and posterior roots of the spinal nerves, and the membrane is prolonged over the trunk of each spinal nerve. These prolongations accompany the nerves only as far as the intervertebral foramina, and are there blended with the periosteum. The inner surface of the dura mater is covered with a layer of polygonal cells, so that it is smooth and secerning ; this was formerly described as the parietal layer of the arachnoid membrane. Cut through the nerves which proceed from the spinal cord on each side, and remove the cord with the dura mater entire. Then lay it flat on the table and slit up the dura mater along the middle of the front of the cord to examine the arachnoid membrane. It will be seen that the functions of the dura mater of the cord are not identical with those of encephalon, since it does not form an internal periosteum to the bones of the spinal canal; nor does it send in partitions to support the cord; and it does not split to form venous sinuses. Akachnoid The arachnoid membrane of the cord is a con- Membbane. tinuation from that of the brain, and is reflected over the spinal nerves as they pass from the cord to the apertures I in the dura mater. This membrane invests the cord, and is in (contact by its superficial aspect with the dura mater, there being J an interval between them called the sub-diiral space, although in 8 some situations they are more or less connected by connective- ttissue bands. On its deeper surface it is in contact with the pia imater, but is loosely connected with it by delicate areolar tissue,