MUCOUS MEMBRANE OF THE NOSE. 275 mucous membrane, continuous, above with that lining the canaliculi, and below with that of the nasal duct. Its front surface is covered by the tendo oculi and the fascia proceeding from it, and by the tensor tarsi muscle. The nasal duct is from half to three-quarters of an inch in length, and is directed downwards, backwards, and a little out- wards. Its termination is rather dilated, and is guarded by a val- vular fold of mucous membrane—valve of Hasner ; consequent!}^, when air is blown into the nasal passages while the nostrils are closed, the lachrymal sac does not become distended. The lachry- mal sac and the nasal duct are lined with ciliated epithelium, and the canaliculi with the squamous variety. Behind the inferior turbinated bone is the opening of the Eus- tachian tube (p. 236). Into this, as well as into the nasal duct, we ought to practise the introduction of a probe. The chief difficulty is to prevent the probe from slipping into the cul-de-sac between the tube and the back of the pharynx. Mucous OB This membrane lines the cavities of the nose and ScHNEiDERiAN the air-cells communicating" with it, and adheres Membrane.' very firmly to the periosteum. Its continuity may be traced into the pharynx, into the orbits through the nasal ducts and canaliculi, into the various air sinuses—viz., the frontal, eth- moidal, sphenoidal sinuses, and the antra of Highmore, and into the tympana and mastoid cells through the Eustachian tubes. At the lower border of the turbinated bones it is disposed in thick and loose folds. The membrane varies in thickness and vascularity in different parts of the nasal cavities. Upon the lower half of the septum and the inferior turbinated bones it is much thicker than elsewhere, owing to a fine plexus of arteries and veins in the sub- mucous tissue. In the sinuses the mucous membrane is thinner, less vascular, and closely adherent to the periosteum.* ' Schneider, De Catarrhis. Wittenberg, 1660. ' In the mucous membrane covering the lower part of the septum, in front, may be observed a small orifice which leads into a narrow blind channel, a few millimetres in length. This canal has numerous glands opening into it, and is the represen- tative of a much larger tubular organ {organ of Jacobson) in some quadrupeds, in whom it is surrounded by a curved plate of cartilage {cariilaga of Jacobson). In