TRICEPS. 386 cavity of the scapula, by a strong flat tendon, which is connected with the capsular and glenoid ligaments of the shoulder-joint. The external head arises from the posterior part of tlie humerus, below the insertion of the teres minor, as far as the musculo-spiral groove, from the outer border of the humerus, and the external intermuscular septum. The internal head arises from the posterior part of the humerus, below the teres major and the musculo-spiral groove, as far as the olecranon fossa; it has an additional origin from the internal intermuscular septum, and from the internal border of the humerus. The precise origin of these heads from the humerus may be ascertained by following the superior profunda artery and musculo-spiral nerve, which separate them. The three portions of the muscle terminate upon a broad tendon, which covers the back of the elbow-joint, and is inserted into the summit and sides of the olecranon ; it is also connected with the fascia on the back cf the forearm. The effect of this connection is that the same muscle which extends the forearm tightens the fascia which gives origin to the extensors of the wrist and fingers. The same holds good in the case of the biceps, and its semilunar expansion in the fascia of the forearm. Between the tendon and the olecranon is a bursa, commonly ■of small size, but sometimes so large as to extend upwards behind the capsule of the joint. This bursa must not be mis- taken for the subcutaneous one, which is situated between the skin and the olecranon, and is so often injured by a fall on the elbow. By dividing the triceps transversely a little Dissection. above the elbow, and turning down the lower portion, it will be seen that some of the muscular fibres terminate upon the capsular ligament of the joint. They have been described a,s a distinct muscle, under the name of the snhayiconeus; their use is to draw up the capsule, so that it may not be injured during extension of the arm. The subanconeus is in this respect analo- gous to the subcrureus muscle of the thigh. Observe the bursa under the tendon, and the arterial arch formed upon the back part of the capsule by the superior profunda and the anastomotica magna (fig. 89, p. 396).