DISSECTION OF THE PALM OF THE HAND. 353 AxTERioB In- This nerve is a branch of the median ; it gene- TEKossEons rally runs close to the radial side of the artery, Nekve. jjnd supplies the flexor longus pollicis, half the flexor profundus digitorum, and the pronator quadratus. DISSECTION OF THE PALM OF THE HAND. Surface On the ulnar side of the palm of the hand is Makkixg. a round long eminence, liypotlienar, which corre- sponds with the muscles- of the ball of the little finger; and on the radial side, placed obliquely over the naetacarpal bone of the thumb, is another eminence, thenar, which is caused by the muscles of the ball of the thumb. Between the two eminences, at the wrist, is a slight depression, corresponding with the middle of the .annular ligament, and which broadens out towards the fingers. The palm of the hand, about an inch from the clefts of the fingers, presents a transverse furrow, which corresponds with the meta- carpo-phalangeal articulations, with the distal limit of the synovial sheaths of the flexor tendons, with the divisions of the palmar fascia into its four processes, and with the transverse metacarpal ligament. The superficial palmar arch may be indicated by a line drawn from the cleft of the extended thumb across the palm ; the deep palmar arch lies half an inch nearer the annular ligament. Make a vertical incision along the centre of the palm, and a transverse one along the bases of the fingers; from this transverse cut continue vertical incisions alonsr the front of the fingers, and reflect the skin; taking care not to remove a small cutaneous muscle—the palmaris brevis—situated over the ball of the little finger, and also two small cutaneous branches of the median and ulnar nerves, which are found in the fat of the palm. Observe how closely, in the centre of the palm, the skin adheres to the palmar fascia beneath it. On the ball of the little finger and the distal ends of the metacarpal bones, the subcutaneous structure is composed of a dense filamentous tissue, which con- tains numerous pellets of fat, forming an elastic pad. A similar A A