MUSCLES ON THE FKONT OF THE LEG. 647 and the tendinous origin of the abductor hallucis. It binds down the flexor tendons of the foot and toes, and, as these pass round the inner ankle, it forms three compartments, each lined with a separate synovial sheath—one each for the tibialis posticus, the flexor longus digitorum, and the flexor longus hallucis. Remove the fascia, leaving enough of the annular ligaments to retain the tendons in their places. Muscles on The muscles on the front of the leg are :—(1) THE Fkont of the tibialis anticus ; (2) the extensor longus digi- THE Leg. torum and peroneus tertius ; (3) the extensor proprius hallucis. Tibialis The tibialis anticus arises by fleshy fibres from Anticus. the external tuberosity and the upper two-thirds •of the outer side of the shaft of the tibia, from the interosseous membrane, from the fascia which covers it, and from the inter- muscular septum which separates it from the extensor longus ■digitorum. About the lower third of the leg the fibres terminate on ■a strong flat tendon, which descends obliquely over the front of the ankle, through the innermost compartment of the anterior annular ligament, to the inner side of the foot; here it becomes a little broader, and is inserted into the internal cuneiform bone and the base of the metatarsal bone of the great toe. The synovial mem- brane, which lines the sheath of the tendon beneath the anterior annular ligament, accompanies it to within an inch of its insertion; •consequently, it 'is opened when the tendon is divided for club-foot. The action of this muscle is to draw the foot upwards and inwards.' "When the foot is the fixed point, it assists in balancing the body •at the ankle. Its nerve comes from the anterior tibial. ExTENsoB This muscle lies along the fibular side of the LoNGcs Dioi- preceding. It arises from the external tuberosity TOBUM. ^j^g tibia, from the upper three-fourths of the ■anterior surface of the shaft of the fibula, from the interosseous membrane, from the fascia of the leg and the intermuscular septa. Its fibres terminate in a penniform manner upon a long tendon, situated on the inner side of the muscle: this tendon descends in ' It is generally necessary to divide this tendon in the distortion of the foot inwards called talipes varus.