COURSE A]!fD EELATIONS OF THE ANTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY. 649 Extensor ^^^^ muscle lies partly concealed between the PBOPBitrs tibialis anticus and tbe extensor longus digitoruni. H.\LLucis. jl; arises from rather more than the middle third of the anterior surface of the fibula, and from the interosseous membrane. The fibres terminate in a penniform manner on the tendon, which runs over the ankle, between the tendons of the tibialis anticus and the extensor longus digitorum, along the top of the foot to the great toe, where it is inserted into the base of the last phalanx. It has a special pulley beneath the horizontal portion of the anterior annular ligament, lined by a synovial mem- brane, which accompanies it as far as the metatarsal bone of the great toe. It is supplied by the anterior tibial, a branch of the peroneal nerve. Now examine the course, relations, and branches of the ante- rior tibial artery. Since it lies deeply between the muscles, it is necessary to separate them from each other : this is easily done by proceeding from the ankle towards the knee. CouESE AXD anterior tibial artery is one of the two Eelatioxs of the branches into which the popliteal divides at the Antebior Tibial lower border of the popliteus. It comes at first Abtert. horizontally foi'ward about 1;^ inch below the head of the fibula, between the two heads of the tibialis posticus, above the interosseous membrane, and then descends, lying in rather more than the first half of its course upon the interosseous membrane, afterwards along the front of the tibia. It runs be- neath the anterior annular ligament over the front of the ankle, where it takes the name of the dorsal artery of the foot. Thus, a. line drawn from the head of the fibula to the interval between the first and second metatarsal bones would nearly indicate its course. In the upper third of the leg it lies deeply between the tibialis, anticus and the extensor longus digitorum; in the lower two-thirds, between the tibialis anticus and the extensor proprius hallucis. In front of the anlde the artery is crossed by the extensor proprius hallucis, and lies between the tendon of this muscle and the inner- tendon of the extensor longus digitorum. The artery is accompanied by the anterior tibial nerve (a branch of the peroneal), which runs for some distance upon its-