291 NERVES OF THE BACK. cesses and the tendons attached to them. They soon divide into • rtei'nal and internal branches. The external pass obliquely over the levatores costarum, between the ilio-costalis and the longissimus dorsi; and successively increase in size from above downwards. The upper six terminate in the erector spinas and the levatores cos- tarum ; the lower six, after supplying these muscles, pass through the latissimus dorsi, and become the cutaneous nerves of the back. The iiiternal successively decrease in size from above downwards. They run towards the spine between the semispinalis dorsi and the multifidus spinae. The upper six, after giving branches to the muscles, perforate the trapezius and become cutaneous nerves. The lower ones terminate in the muscles of the vertebral groove. Ltjmbab The general arrangement of the nerves in this Eegion. region resembles that of the dorsal. Their external branches, after supplying the erector spinse, become cutaneous and terminate in the skin over the buttock. The internal branches supply the multifidus spinas. The posterior divisions of the spinal nerves in Sacral Eegion. ^ . . , , ^ this region are small. With the exception of the last, they come out of the spinal canal through the foramina in the back of the sacrum. The upper two or three divide into external and internal branches. The internal terminate in the multifidus spinae; the external become cutaneous and supply the skin of the gluteal region. The last two sacral nerves proceed, without divi- ding-, to the inteeniment. The coccygeal nerve is exceedingly small, and, after joining a small branch from the last sacral, terminates in the skin over the coccyx. Abteriesof The arteries which supply the back are:—1. THE Back. Small branches from the occipital; 2. Small branches from the vertebral; 3. The deep cervical; 4. The jdos- terior branches of the intercostal and lumbar arteries. The occipital artery furnishes several small branches to the muscles at the back of the neck; one, larger than the rest, the arteria iTrince'ps cervicis, descends beneath the complexus, and t generally inosculates with the deep cervical artery, and with small branches from the vertebral. V 2