EELATIONS OF THE DUODENUM. 474 The inferior mesenteric vein ascends nearly vertically behind the peritoneum, passes in front of the left psoas, behind the third portion of the duodenum and the pancreas, and joins the splenic behind the pancreas. To see the relations of the duodenum and the pancreas, two ligatures about an inch apart should be placed on the upper end of the jejunum, and two others at a similar distance apart on the lower end of the sigmoid flexure of the colon. After the jejunum and the sigmoid flexure have been divided between the ligatures respectively, the small and large in- testines are to be removed by cutting through the peritoneal folds which connect them to the abdominal walls. By turning up the stomach, we expose the duodenum curving round the great end of the pancreas. Duodenum, The duodenum (p. 467) commences at the Eelations of. pyloric end of the stomach, and terminates on the left side of the second lumbar vertebra, where the intestinum jejunum begins. It is about eight to ten inches in length, and is divided into three parts, an ascending, descending, and transverse. The first portion ascends obliquely as high as the neck of the gall-bladder; then, making a sudden bend, it descends in front of the right kidney as low as the third lumbar vertebra. Lastly, making another bend, it ascends obliquely across the spine to the left side of the second lumbar vertebra: here the intestine takes the name of jejunum. Thus the duodenum describes a horseshoe curve, the concavity of which is directed towards the left side, and embraces the head of the pancreas. The first or ascending portion is about two inches long, and is completely invested by peritoneum. It is comparatively free, so that the movements of the stomach may not be restricted. In front of it are the liver and the neck of the gall-bladder. Behind it are the bile-duct, the hepatic artery, and the vena portte. The second or descending portion is about three inches long, and is covered by peritoneum only on its anterior surface. It is firmly connected to the deeper structures behind, and to the pancreas^ on its left side, so that no movement is permitted in this portion. It descends from the neck of the gall-bladder to the right side of