CONTENTS OF THE MALE PELVIS. 500 Contents of The male pelvis contains the last part of the THE M.\iE intestinal canal (named the rectum), the bladder with the prostate gland at its neck, and the vesi- culas seminales. If the bladder be empty, some of the small intestine will be in the pelvis; not so if the bladder be distended. The relative positions of these pelvic viscera are as follows :— most posteriorly is the rectum, which follows the curve of the sacrum and coccyx, and ends at the anus; immediately in front is the oval hollow viscus, the bladder, which alters in size and posi- tion according to the amount of urine it contains; in front of the bladder, surrounding its neck, and behind the os pubis, is the pro- state gland. Placed beneath the bladder are the vesiculge seminales, and curving round the sides of the bladder are the vasa deferentia, which subsequently lie beneath the base of the bladder. Passing downwards and inwards over the brim of the pelvis are the ureters, which likewise get beneath the fundus vesicae. The bladder and the rectuzn are partially invested with peritoneum. Besides the pelvic viscera just enumerated, there are found, to the outer part of the pelvic cavity, the internal iliac artery and its branches, and the sacral plexus of nerves, with the obturator nerve running forwards to the obturator foramen. All the pelvic viscera are more or less invested by prolongations from the pelvic fascia, which constitute some of the true ligaments of the bladder; also a capsule for the prostate, and coverings for the pelvic muscles. The superior hsemorrhoidal artery, the continuation of the in- ferior mesenteric, passes down into the pelvis, and supplies the half an inch higher than the lower part of the symphysis. The obliquity of the pelvis is greatest in early life. In the fcetus, and in young children, its capacity is sraall, and the viscera, which subsequently belong to it, are situated in the abdomen. The relative diameters of the male and the female true pelvis are as follows :— Male Female Brim Cavity Outlet Brim Cavity Outlet Transverse Oblique 1 Antero-posterior # 4 4i- 4V 3^ 4 H 5i 5 4} 5 5* 5^- 4J 4f 5