STRUCTURE OF THE IRIS. 804 throughout its whole thickness are numerous and various-shaped pigment cells having anastomosing processes, like those of the choroid. They are chiefly found in the uvea, which is continuous with the pigmented layer of the retina. Upon the disposition of these pigment-cells depends the colour of the iris: in dark eyes, the pigment-cells are scattered throughout the thickness of the stroma; in light eyes, only on its posterior surface. The muscular tissue is of the unstriped kind, and is arranged partly in a radiating, partly in a circular manner. The circular fibres, the sphincter, weU marked, are collected on the posterior aspect of the pupillary margin, where they form a ring about -^\k of an inch in width ; at the free margin of the iris they form a thick bundle, but become more frayed out towards the circum- ference.' The radiating fibres, the dilatator, converge towards the pupil, where they form arches and blend with the circular fibres. The pigmant, as before described, is found in varying thickness and position, differing according to the colour of the iris. The arteries of the iris are derived from the two long and the anterior ciliary arteries. The long ciliary arteries perforate the sclerotic coat on each side of the optic nerve, and then run forwards between this tunic and the choroid to the ciliary muscle at the outer circumference of the iris. Each artery divides into an upper and a lower branch, which form with each other and the anterior ciliary arteries a vascular circle (circulus major); from this circle numerous small branches pass inwards and form another circle (circulus minor) of anastomosis, which terminates in the veins of the iris. The anterior ciliary m-teries, five or six in number, are derived from the muscular and lachrymal branches of the ophthalmic artery, and ramify on the tendons of the recti muscles (p. 796), where they pierce the sclerotic about the ^th of an inch behiad the margin of the cornea. These vessels supply the ciliary pro- cesses and iris, and join the circulus major: it is from their en- largement that the red zone round the cornea is produced in inflammation of the iris. ' The ciicular fibres of the iiis in the bird are of the striped variety, and discernible without difficulty.