142 I INTERNAL LATERAL LIGAMENT. lu the floor of the mouth there occasionally exists a cystic tumour, called a o-anula, with semi-transparent walls, perceptible beneath the tongue. By some of the older writers it was looked upon as an abnormal dilatation of the submaxillary duct. There is, however, no reason for believing this swelling (except very rarely) to be connected with the duct. It is rather a cyst formed in the loose areolar tissue under the tongue, or is an enlargement of one of the small bursee which normally exist in this situation. The character of the saliva presents no agreement with the fluid contained in these cysts, which is thickly glairy, like the white of an egg. Internal T^his so-called ligament (which is more like a Lateeal Ligament layer of fascia) passes from the spinous process or THE Lower of the sphenoid bone to the inner side of the foramen dentale. Between this ligament and the neck of the jaw, we find the internal maxillary artery and vein, the auriculo-temporal nerve, the middle meningeal artery, the inferior dental nerve and artery, and a portion of the parotid gland. At this stage of the dissection you will be able to trace the course and relations of the internal carotid artery. But before doing this, examine the several objects which intervene between the external and internal carotids. These are—1. The stylo- glossus; 2. The stylo-pharyngeus; 3. The glosso-pharyngeal nerve; 4. The stylo-hyoid ligament. This arises from the front of the styloid process Stylo-glossus. jjgj^p apex, and from the stylo-maxillary liga- ment. It passes at first downwards and then horizontally forwards, and is inserted along the side of the tongue as far as the tip, some of its lower fibres decussating with those of the hyo-glossus. Its action is to retract the tongue. Its nerve is a branch of the hypo- glossal. gj,5j^o. This arises from the inner side of the styloid PHARYNGEus. process near the base, and is inserted into the upper and posterior edges of the thyroid cartilage. It descends along the side of the jiharynx between the superior and the middle constrictors • some of its fibres blend with the constrictor muscles;