25 DISSECTION OF THE FACE. The motor nerve wliicli supplies all the muscles of expression in the face is the ' portio dura,' or facial nerve. It emerges from the stylo-mastoid foramen, and divides into branches, which pass through the parotid gland, forining a plexus termed the 'pes ansenmis' The sensory nerves of the face are chiefly derived from the three divisions of the fifth cranial nerve; namely, the supra-orbital, the supra-trochlear, the lachrymal, the infra-trochlear, and naso-lobular, which latter supply the ala and the tip of the nose; the three sets of branches from the infra-orbital; and the mental. The other nerves which confer sensation upon the face are, the great auricular branch of the cervical plexus, which supplies the skin covering the parotid gland and part of the cheek. It is convenient to arrange the muscles of the face under three groups; appertaining, respectively, to the mouth, the nose, the eyebrows and lids. Begin with those of the mouth. The muscles of the mouth are arranged thus: there is an orbi- cular or sphincter muscle surrounding the lips ; from this, as from a common centre, muscles diverge and are fixed into the surround- ing bones. They are named elevators, depressors, sphincters, &c., according to their respective action. MuscxjLus This muscle is usually considered as a part of EisoEirs the platysma myoides, the large subcutaneous (Saxtorini). muscle of the neck. It arises by thin fasciculi from the fascia over the masseter muscle, and passes horizontally forwards to be inserted into the angle of the mouth, where it inter- mingles with the orbicularis oris and depressor anguli oris. It produces the smile, not of good-humour, but of derision. Orbicdlabis This muscle, nearly an inch in breadth, sur- Oi'is. rounds the mouth, forming a kind of sphincter. Its size and thickness in different individuals produce the va-riety in the prominence of the lips. Observe that its fibres, except the most internal, do not surround the mouth in one unbroken series, but that those of the upper and lower lip decussate at the angles of the mouth, and intermingle with the fibres of the buccinator and other muscles which converge from different parts of the face. The orbicularis consists of two parts, an inner or labial part,