17 EXIT OF THE CIUNIAL NERVES. first, second, third, fourth, &c., pairs, according to the order of suc- cession from before backwards. As they pass through the foramina, each receives a process from the three membranes of the brain, the dura mater, the pia mater, and the arachnoid ; the two first are gradually lost upon the nerve, while the arachnoid is reflected back. The first is the olfactory nerve. This cannot be seen, because the olfactory bulb has been removed with the brain. From the under aspect of the bulb proceed about twenty branches, which pass through the foramina in the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, and are arranged in three groups—inner, middle, and outer. The inner (larger) pass to the septum nasi; the middle to the roof of the nose; and the outer to the outer wall of the nose as low as the middle turbinated bone. The second {optic nerve) passes through the foramen opticum into the orbit accompanied by the ophthalmic artery. In order to see the next three pairs of nerves, the dura mater must be carefully removed from the side of the body of the sphenoid, and the nerves traced as they pass through the tentorium cerebelli. The tliird (^notor ocidi) passes through the dura mater, close behind the anterior clinoid process, traverses the outer wall of the cavernous sinus, and enters the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure, where it receives some filaments from the cavernous plexus of the sympathetic. Before passing thimigh the fissure, it divides into two branches, an upper and a lower, which enter the orbit between the two heads of the external rectus. The fourth (trochlearis), a small nerve, passes through the dura mater a little behind the posterior clinoid process. It passes through the outer wall of the cavernous sinus, lying below the preceding nerve and above the first division of the fifth, and then runs forwards through the sphenoidal fissure. Here it lies above the third nerve, and is finally distributed to the superior oblique muscle, on its orbital surface. In passing through the cavernous sinus it receives some branches from the sjnnpathetic plexus. It also communicates here with the ophthalmic nerve, and sends back a recurrent branch to supply the tentorium cerebelli as far back as the internal occipital protuberance. c