MUSCLES OF THE PESTNA. 3 nates partly in the skin of the brow, partly in the orbicularis oculi and corrugator supercilii, while some of the inner fibres are con- tinuous in front of the nose with the pyramidalis nasi muscle. The aponeurosis of the scalp covers the vertex of the skull, the two beina: continuous across the middle line. It is continued over the temples and side of the head, gradually changing from tendinous into connective tissue. This muscle enables us to move the scalp backwards and forwards. But its chief action is as a muscle of expression. It elevates the brows, and occasions the transverse wrinkles in the expression of surprise. The occipital portion is supplied by the posterior auricular branch of the facial; the frontal portion by the temporal branch of the same nerve. Muscles of the There are several small muscles to move the Ear. cartilage of the ear. In man they are thin and pale, and require care to dissect them out satisfactorily. In animals who possess a more delicate sense of hearing, they are much more developed, for the purpose of quickly directing the cartilage of the ear towards the direction of the sound. Attollens To indicate the position of this muscle the AuREM. student should draw down the upper part of the pinna of the ear, when it will be found immediately under the ridge of skin so produced. It is a thin fan-shaped muscle and arises from the epicranial aponeurosis, and is inserted into the cranial aspect of the upper part of the concha. Attbahens This muscle is the smallest of these muscles, AuREM. and its situation is indicated by the prominence of skin produced by drawing backwards the front part of the helix. It anses from the aponeurosis of the occipito-frontalis, and is inserted into the front of the helix. Eetbahens This muscle is exposed by reflecting the skin Acrem. from the ridge produced by drawing the pinna forwards. Consisting of two or three fasciculi, it arises from the base of the mastoid process and is inserted into the lower part of the concha. The retrahens and the attollens aurem are supplied by the pos- terior auricular branch of the facial nerve; the attrahens, by an offset from the temporal branch of the same nerve. B 2 I