421 SUPEBFICIAL FASCIA OF THE ABDOMEN. the greater part of tlie spleen, tlie tail of the pancreas, the splenic flexure of the colon, the supra-renal capsule, and the upper part of the left kidney. In the right lumbar region are, the ascending colon, the lower part of the right kidney, and small intestines. In the left lumbar region are, the descending colon, the lower part of the left kidney, omentum, and small intestines. In the right inguinal region are, the caecum and appendix vermi- formis. In the left inguinal region is the sigmoid flexure of the colon. The abdomen should at this stage be distended with air by means of a blow-pipe inserted into the abdominal cavity through the umbilicus, which, on the removal of the blow-pipe, should be tied with string to prevent escape of the air. An incision is to be made from the ensiform Dissection* • • • cartilage to the os pubis, another from the anterior superior spine of the ilium to a point midway between the umbilicus and OS pubis, and a third from the ensiform cartilage, transversely outwards towards the axilla as far as the angles of the ribs. The skin should then be dissected from the subjacent adipose and con- nective tissue, called the superficial fascia. SuPEEFiciAL The subcutaneous tissue of the abdomen has Fascl\. the same general characters as that of other parts, and varies in thickness in different persons, according to the amount of fat. At the lower part of the abdomen, it admits of separation into two layers, between which are found the subcuta- neous blood-vessels, the lymphatic glands, the ilio-inguinal nerve, and the hypogastric branch of the ilio-hypogastric nerve. Respecting the superficial layer, observe that it contains the fat, and is continuous with the superficial fascia of the thigh, the scrotum, and the perineum. The deeper layer is intimately con- nected with Poupart's ligament and the linea alba; but it is very loosely continued over the spermatic cord and the scrotum, and becomes identified with the deep layer of the superficial fascia of the perineum. These points deserve attention, since they explain how urine, extravasated into the perineum and scrotum, readily makes its way over the spermatic cord on to the surface of the