236 EU.STACHIAN TUBE. wHte and opaque in inflammatory affections of the tonsils, and occasionally accumulates in these superficial depressions, gi\dng rise to the deceptive appearance of a small ulcer, or a slough, or even a false membrane on the part. The tonsil lies close to the inner side of the internal carotid artery. It is only separated from this vessel by the ascending pharyngeal artery, the superior constrictor, and the aponeurosis of the pharynx. Therefore, in removing a portion of the tonsil, or in opening an abscess near it, the point of the instrument should never be directed outwards, but inwards towards the mesial line.' The tonsU is supplied with blood by the tonsillar and palatine branches of the facial, and by the descending palatine branch of the internal maxillary. Nerves are furnished to it from the glosso- pharyngeal and from Meckel's ganglion. Eustachian This canal conveys air from the pharynx to the Tube. tympanum. Its orifice is situated opposite the back part of the inferior spongy bone. The direction of the tube from the pharynx is upwards, backwards, and outwards; it is an inch and a half long. The narrowest part is about the middle, and here its walls are in contact. Near the tympanum its walls are osseous, but towards the pharynx they are composed of fibro- cartilage and fibrous membrane. The cartilaginous end, about an inch in length, projects between the origins of the levator and the tensor palati, and gives attachment to some of their fibres. It is situated at the base of the skull, in the furrow between the petrous, portion of the temporal and the great wing of the sphenoid bone. It adheres closely to the bony furrow, as well as to the fibro- cartilage filling up the foramen lacerum medium. The orifice is not trumpet-shaped, as usually described, but an elliptical sUt about half an inch long, and nearly perpendicular. The fibro- cartilage bounds it only on the inner and the upper part of the ' Cases are related by Portal and B6clard, in which the carotid artery was. punctured in opening an abscess in the tonsil. The result was immediately fatal hsemorrhage. It should, however, be borne in mind that the artery usually injured is the tonsillar branch of the facial artery, and not the internal carotid. The surgical treatment of this accident is therefore ligature of the external carotid artery between its superior thyroid and Ungual branches, and not ligature of the common carotid artery as is often recommended.