THYROID BODY. 87 body are the number, the large size, and tbe free inosculations of its arteries. Tlie superior thyroid arteries come from the external carotid and enter the fr'ont surface of the apex of each lobe; the inferior thyroid come from the subclavian, and enter the under sur- face of the base. An artery, called the middle thyroid (thyroidea ima), is observed in some subjects; it is given off from the arteria innominata, or the arch of the aorta, and ascends directly in front of the trachea to the isthmus. Its veins are equally large, and form a plexus upon it. The superior and middle thyroid veins cross the common carotid, and open into the internal jugular. The inferior thyroid veins, two in number, descend over the front of the trachea, communicate freely with each other, and terminate in the left Ibrachio-cephalic vein. When you perform tracheotomy, bear in mind the size of these inferior thyroid veins, and the possible existence of a middle thyroid artery. Its nerves are furnished by the middle and inferior cervical ganglia of the sympathetic. They accompany the arteries. The h/mijJiaUcs of the thyroid body are both numerous and large. They form a dense network on the surface, and pass into the connective tissue of the gland, and eventually ' enclose the primary lobes in complete rings or more or less perfect arches.' On the right side they open into the right lymphatic duct, on the left side into the thoracic duct. Steuctuhe of The thyroid body belongs to the class of duct- THE Thyroid less glands, since no excretory duct has been dis- covered. It is invested by a thin covering of dense areolar tissue, which connects it with the surrounding struc- tures and also penetrates it, imperfectly dividing it into lobes and supporting the vessels as they enter it. It consists -of a multitude of closed vesicles, which are imbedded in a delicate reticulum. The cells vary in size, from ■g4-'o inch to that of a pin's head, and do not communicate with each other. In hypertrophy of the gland we sometimes see them as large as a horse-bean, or even larger. The vesicles are oval and are lined by a single layer of endothelial columnar cells containing a glairy yellow fluid, in which are found a large number of nuclei, nucleated cells, and not infrequently