564 THE VAGINA. a fistulous communication remains between tliem, through which urine constantly dribbles. ^ It is necessary to slit open the whole of the vagina along the side, to obtain a clear idea of the manner in which it embraces the lower end of the uterus, and of the extent to which the neck of the uterus projects into it. The leng-th of the vagina, in the unimpregnated adult, is, on an average, about four inches on its anterior wall, and between fiv and six along its posterior wall, owing to its curved direction. I may be more, or less ; the difference in each case depending upon the depth of the pelvis, the stature and age of the individual. The vagina, however, is never so long that we cannot, during life, feel the neck of the uterus projecting at the top of it, higher up, or lower down, according to circumstances. For instance, it is a Httle lower down in the erect than in the recumbent position; again, in the early months of utero-gestation, the uterus descends a little into the vagina, so that this canal becomes shorter: the reverse holds good when the uterus begins to rise out of the pelvis. The axis of the vagina is slightly curved with the concavity upwards; it corresponds with the axis of the outlet of the pelvis. The width of the vagina is not uniform throughout. The narrowest part is at the orifice; it is also a little constricted round the neck of the uterus. The widest part is about the middle: here a transverse section through it presents the appearance of a. broad horizontal fissure. If, therefore, you would insert the bivalve speculum with the least amount of pain, the blades of the speculum should be vertical when introduced into the orifice, and afterwards turned horizontally. Steuctdee of The vagina consists of a mucous coat, of a THE Vagina. muscular coat, and of an external coat of erectile tissue. The mucous membrane is of a pale rose colour, continuous above with that of the uterus, and below with the integument of the labia majora. It is rough and furrowed, especially near the orifice, and it presents two longitudinal ridges—columnce rug arum—which ruu, one along the anterior, the other along the posterior wall. From ^ each side of these proceed a series of transverse ridges—rufjcG—