BRANCHES OF THE ABDOMINAL AORTA. 484 other, witli the musculo-phrenic branches of the internal maramar}-, and the intercostal arteries. The right phrenic vein terminates in the inferior vena cava; the left vein in the renal vein, if not in the vena cava. SupHA-EENAi/ The sup7'a-renal or capsular arteries are two Aetebies. very small branches, given off from the aorta, one on each side, opposite to the superior mesenteric artery; each runs upon the crus of the diaphragm, the right behind the inferior cava, and is distributed to the supra-renal body, inosculating with branches from the phrenic and renal arteries. The right capsular vein terminates in the inferior cava, the left in the left renal vein. Eenal Aeteries The renal arteries arise from the aorta imme- AND Veins. diately below the superior mesenteric artery, and run transversely to the hila of the kidneys. Both are covered by their corresponding veins. The right is longer and rather lower than the left, and passes behind the vena cava. Each, after send- ing a small branch to the supra-renal body and ureter, enters its kidney, not as a single trunk, but by several branches, correspond- ing to the original lobes of the organ. The renal veins lie in front of the arteries, and join the vena cava at right angles. The left is longer than the right, and crosses over the aorta; it also receives the spermatic, capsular, and the phrenic veins of its own side. Spbematio "^^^ spermatic arteries, two in number, arise Abteries and from the front of the aorta, a little below the ^EiNs. renal, and pass to the testes in the male and to the ovaries in the female. Each runs down behind the peritoneum, obliquely over the psoas, crossing over the ureter, and the front of the external iliac artery immediately above the crural arch: the right artery in addition lying over the vena cava. Each then passes through the internal abdominal ring and inguinal canal, with the other constituents of the spermatic cord, to the testicle, where it becomes tortuous, and divides into several branches, some of which accompany the vas deferens and supply the epididymis; others supply the testis by piercing the tunica albuginea. Each arteiy is accompanied, below the external abdominal ring, by a very convo- luted plexus of veins—pampiniform plexus. At the inner ring they