DEEP MUSCLES ON THE BACK OF THE FOREARM. 393 liack of tlie cuneiform, jDisiform, and unciform bones, and is lined by a continuation from the synovial membrane in tbe groove of the iihia. The action of this muscle is to extend the hand, and incline 11 towards the ulnar side. It is supplied by the posterior inter- isseous nerve. In pronation of the forearm, the lower articular end of the ulna projects between the tendons of the extensor carpi ulnaris and the I'xteusor minimi digiti. A su-bcutaneous hursa is sometimes found :ibove the bone in this situation. ^ This small triangular muscle is situated at the outer and back part of the elbow. It is covered liy a strong layer of fascia, derived' from the tendon of the triceps, and appears like a continuation of that muscle. It arises by a ten- don from the posterior part of the external condyle of the humerus, imd is inserted into the triangular surface on the upper fourth of the outer part of the ulna. Part of the under surface of the muscle sis in contact with the capsule of the elbow-joint. Its action is to iSsist in extending the forearm. Its nerve comes from the musculo- ipiral. To expose the deep layer of muscles, detach from SKCTTOTST. the external condyle the extensor carpi radialis ibrevior, the extensor communis digitorum, the extensor minimi digiti, and the extensor carpi ulnaris; and, after noticing the ves- »sels and nerves which enter their under surface, turn them down. IThe deep-seated muscles, with the posterior interosseous artery and cnerve, must be dissected. The muscles exposed are :—1. The ex- Deep-seated tensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. 2. -Extensor primi )iMxisci4Es ON THE Intemodii pollicis. 3. Extensor secundi inter- 3Back op the nodii pollicis. 4. Extensor indicis or indicator. 5. The supinator radii brevis. They are all sup- plied by branches from the posterior interosseous nerve. ExTENsoB This muscle lies immediately below the supinator 1 •Ossis Metacabpi brevis, and arises from the posterior surface of the Pollicis. \j\nab below the supinator brevis, from the posterior ' surface of the middle third of the radius, and from the interosseous membrane. The muscle passes obliquely downwards and outwards, crosses the radial extensors of the wrist about three inches above