STRUCTURE OF THE OVARIES. 574 The transparent vesicles just alluded to are the Gi-aafian follid or the ovisacs, which contain the ova.' In the outer jDart or cortical layer of the stroma of the ovary may be observed a large number of closely set minute vesicles, about y"^o^^ of i^^h in diameter, more numerous in the ovaries of young children and in some animals. In the central part or medullary portion of the stroma are seen larger and less numerous vesicles, the largest being placed most deeply; but these, as they become mature, gradually make their way towards the surface, probably by absorption, and when fully developed measure from ^th to -^th of an inch in diameter. One, or perhaps more than one, Graafian vesicle ruptures at each menstrual period, and the little ovum it contains escapes from the vesicle, and is either grasped by, or falls into the fimbriated end of the Fallopian tube, and is thus conveyed into the uterus. The ruptured vesicle from which the ovum has escaped becomes filled with blood, and subsequently also with an exudation from its walls, so as to constitute a reddish-yellow substance, called the corpus luteum, which persists for a while, and then degenerates into a small stellate fibrous cicatrix. The Graafian vesicles are very numerous, especially in the young subject, the smaller ones being the most numerous, their average diameter being about j-J-^-t'^ of inch.^ External to the larger vesicles there can be distinguished a membrana pt'opria or basement membrane; internal to this, the stroma becomes altered so as to constitute a distinct wall to the follicle. Within this, and lining the wall of the vesicle, there is a layer of nucleated cells, called the memhrana granulosa, which surrounds a transparent albuminous fluid in which the ovum or cjerm is contained. The vesicle, as it approaches the surface of the ovary, develoj)es an additional layer of granular cells, called the discus proligerus, within which the ovum is imbedded, lying usually towards the free surface of the ovary. The ramifications of the ovarian artery through the ovary are remarkable for their convolutions ; .they run in parallel lines, as in ' So called after De Graaf, a Dutch anatomist, who discovered them in 1672, and believed they were the true ova. ^ It has been computed that in the ovaries of a child at bii'th there are no less than 70,000 Graafian follicles.