820 TYMPANUM. pierced by the fissura Glaseri (wliich gives passage to tlie processus gracilis of the malleus, the laxator tympani, and the tympanic branch of the internal maxillary artery), by the foramen chordas posterins, through which the chorda tympani enters the tympanum, and by the foramen chordse anterius, which is the commencement of the canal of Huguier, for the exit of the chorda tympani nerve. The inner luall is vertical and uneven, and presents the fol- lowing objects, beginning from above: 1. A horizontal ridge, indicating the line of the aquasductus Fallopii; 2. The feneska ovalis, a reniform opening, nearly horizontal, which leads into the vestibule, but is closed in the recent state by a membrane, to which is attached the base of the stapes ; 3. Below and in front of the fenestra ovalis is a convex bony prominence, the promontory; it is occasioned by the first turn of the cochlea, and is marked by vertical grooves, in which lie the branches of the tympanic plexus of nerves ; 4. Below and behind this is the fenestra rotunda, which lies at the bottom of a conical depression and is overhung by a projection of bone, so that it cannot be seen, except when viewed obliquely ; it leads to the scala tympani of the cochlea, but is closed in the recent state by membrane; 5. Immediately behind the fenestra ovalis is a small conical eminence, named the pyramid, in the summit of which is a small aperture, from which the tendon of the stapedius emerges ; within the pyramid at its base is a small aj)ertnre which leads to the aquEeductus Fallopii, and transmits a special filament from the facial nerve to the stapedius. The posterior wall presents three or four openings, one of them large, which lead to the mastoid cells, and convey air into them % from the tympanum. The mucous membrane of the tympanum is continued into the mastoid cells through these openings. The anterior tvall is pierced by an aperture for the transmission of a small artery from the internal carotid. Into this wall open the ^ JEustachian tube, and (in the dry bone) the canal for the tensor tym- M pani, which are separated from each other by a bony septum, the. ■ processiis cochleariformis. The Unstachian tube is partly osseous, partly cartilaginous : the cartilaginous portion has been described, p. 236 ; the osseous portion, about half an inch in length, opens I into the lowest part of the anterior wall, and is lined with mucous