14.9 SPINAL ACCESSORY NERVE. the oesophagus. On both sides the nerves enter the larynx beneath the lower border of the inferior constrictor, and supply all the intrinsic muscles of the larynx, except the crico-tliyroid. These nerves as they turn under their respective vessels give off cardiac branches to the deep cardiac plexus. They supply also filaments to the trachea, oesophagus, and inferior constrictor muscle. The remaining branches of the pneumogastric nerve to the lungs, heart, oesophagus and stomach will be examined in the dissection of the chest. Spinal Acces- The Spinal accessory nerve issues through the soRY Neeve. middle part of the foramen jugulare, in a sheath of dura mater common to it and the pneumogastric nerve. It arises by numerous filaments from the side of the medulla oblon- gata below the pneumogastric, and from the lateral column of the spinal cord as low down as the sixth cervical vertebra. The fila- ments which arise from the medulla oblongata join to form the accessmnj portion of the nerve; the spinal filaments ascend between the ligamentum denticulatum and the posterior roots of the cervical Spinal nerves, and form the spinal portion of the nerve. These por- tions converge to the jugular foramen, where they communicate with each other more or less, and are then continued onwards below the jugular foramen as two portions—the internal or accessory, which joins the pneumogastric n.; the external or spinal which is distributed to muscles. The accessorij part, within the foramen jugulare, sends one or more filaments to the ganglion of the root of the pneumogastric. It lies close to the pneumogastric nerve at the ganglion of the trunk, and is finally incorporated with the nerve below the ganglion. It sends filaments to the pharyngeal and superior laryngeal branches of the pneumogastric, - The spinal part separates from the accessory part below the foramen jugulare. It then takes a curved course backwards and outwards, lying in front of the internal jugular vein and the trans- verse process of the atlas, and behind the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles. It pierces the upper part of the sterno-mastoid muscle accompanied by the superior sterno-mastoid artery, a branch of the occipital, and supplies the, muscle, joining in its substance with