GLUTEUS MAXIMUS. 655 to the lower and outer part of tlie buttock over tlie great tro- chanter. Cutaneous hranclies trom the lesser sciatic werae proceedlupwards: from beneath, the lower border of the gluteus maximus to supply- the skin over the lower part of this muscle. Gluteal Three powerful muscles are situated in the- Muscles. region of the buttock, one above the other, named, according to their size, the gluteus maximus, medius, and minimus. The fascia covering the gluteus maximus is comparatively thin,, posteriorly, where it is attached to the sacrum, coccyx, and ilium ; but anteriorly it is very dense and glistening, and gives origin to the fibres of the gluteus medius, and lower down becomes continuous with the fascia lata. Gluteus This is the largest muscle of the body, and is j^lAxiMus. covered by a fascia, which sends prolongations inwards deeply between the muscular bundles. Its great size is characteristic of man, in reference to his erect position. Its texture is thick and coarse. It arises from the posterior fifth of the crest of the ilium, and from the rough surface below it, from the lower part of the sacrum, the coccyx, and the great sacro- sciatic ligament-. The fibres descend obliquely forwards, and are inserted thus :—The anterior two-thirds terminate on a strono- broad aponeurosis which plays over the gTeat trochanter, and joins the fascia lata on the outside of the thigh (p. 616) ; the remaining third is inserted into the femur, along the gluteal ridge leading from the linea aspera to the base of the great trochanter. This muscle extends the thigh-bone upon the pelvis, and is therefore one of those most concerned in raising the body from the sitting to the erect position, and in maintaining it erect. It propels the body in walking, running, or leaping, and rotates the thigh outwards. It is supplied with blood by the gluteal and sciatic arteries; with nerves from the lesser sciatic, and the sacral plexus. What is gluteus maximus should be reflected from SEEN BEXEATH Its origiu. The best way is to begin at the front iHE Gluteus border, which overlaps the gluteus medius. The Maximus. dissection is diflficult, and he who undertakes it