PECTORALIS MAJOH. 308 PECTOBAiis The pectoralis major is the large triangular ^^^oR. muscle in the front of the chest. It arises from the anterior surface of the sternal half of the clavicle, from the front of its own half of the sternum, from the cartilages of all the true ribs except the last, and from the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen. From this extensive origin the fibres converge towards the arm, the upper ones passing downwards and outwards, the middle ones transversely outwards, and the lower fibres upwards and outwards; they terminate in a flat tendon, about two inches in breadth, which is inserted into the anterior margin of the bicipital groove of the humerus. The arrangement of its fibres, as well as the structure of its tendon, is peculiar. The lower fibres, which form the boundary of the axilla, are folded be- neath the rest, and terminate upon the upper part of the tendon— i.e. nearer to the shoulder-joint; the upper fibres, which arise from the clavicle, and are frequently separated from the main body of the muscle by a slight interval, descend in front of the lower, and terminate upon tlie lower part of the tendon. Consequently the upper and lower fibres of the muscle cross each other previously to their insertion. The object of this arrangement is to enable all the fibres to act simultaneously when the arm is extended. The upper part of the tendon sends off a fibrous prolongation, which binds down the long head of the biceps, and is attached to the great tuberosity of the humerus; another tendinous expansion is prolonged backwards to the tendon of the deltoid muscle ; and a third passes downwards to be intimately connected with the fascia of the upper arm. The chief action of the pectoralis major is to draw the humerus towards the chest, as in placing the hand on the opposite shoulder, or in pulling an object towards the body. When the arm is raised and made the fixed point, the muscle assists in raising the trunk, as in climbing. Thus too, on emergency, it can act as an auxiliary muscle of inspiration. Between the pectoralis major and the deltoid, the great muscle hrutorim. It*arises inferiorly by a tendinous expansion from the rectus ab- dominis, and is connected above to the tendon of the sterno-mastoid.