557 THE URETHRA. prostate (p. 552); the membranous ■portion with tlie anatomy of the side view of the pelvic viscera (p. 537). The spongy portion, so termed because it is surrounded by the erectile tissue of the corpus spongiosum, is about six inches long. That part of it running through the bulb is called the hulhous por- tion, and is the most dilatable part of the urethra except the pro- static. In the centre of the glans penis the canal widens into a sinus termed fossa navicularis; its termination, at the meatus urinarius, is the most contracted part of the urethra. The most dilatable part of the urethra is the prostatic. Even the narrowest parts of the canal must admit of considerable dila- tation, since calculi of from three to four lines in diameter can pass through it. The common ejaculatory ducts open into the prostatic part of the urethra, by the side of the veru montanum. The ducts of Cowper's glands open into the bulbous part. Besides these glands, a number of ducts open into the urethra, proceeding from small glands situated in the submucous tissue. These ducts, called the glands of Littre, or lacunce, are large enough to admit a bristle, and run in the same direction as the stream of the urine. Most of them are on the lower surface of the urethra; but one, called lacuna magna, is on the upper surface, about one inch and a half down the canal. The urethra is composed of three coats—a mucous, muscular, and erectile. TTie mucous coat is continuous posteriorly with that of the bladder, and it sends down prolongations into the various ducts which open into it. It is arranged in longitudinal folds in the membranoxis and spongy portions, and is lined by columnar epithe- lium except near the glans, where there are papillee, covered with squamous epithelium ; this, therefore, is the most sensitive part. Beneath the mucous membrane is a double layer of imstriped muscxdar tissue, the superficial fibres being arranged longitudinally, the internal fibres circularly. The superficial fibres are continuous with those of the bladder, the external fibres of which surround the spongy portion of the urethra, being placed between it and its fibrous capsule ;. the deeper fibres of the bladder pass forwards surrounding the prostatic urethra, and subsequently the spongy