■650 ANTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY. fibular side, then in front of it, and lower down is again situated •on its outer side. It is accompanied by two veins, one on each .side, which communicate at intervals by cross branches. The branches of the anterior tibial are as follows :— a. The recurrent tibial branch ascends close by the outer side of the head of the tibia, through the tibialis anticus, to the front of the knee- joint, where it inosculates with the other articular arteries derived from the popliteal, and with the anastomotica magna. b. Muscular branches, in its course down the leg, and others which pierce the interosseous membrane, and communicate posteriorly with Isranches of the posterior tibial and peroneal arteries. c. The malleolar branches, external and internal, ramify over the ankle : the exteroial, descending beneath the tendon of the extensor longus digitorum and peroneus tertius, ramifies on the external malleolus, inosculating with the anterior peroneal and the tarsal ai'teries; the internal j)asses beneath the extensor proprius hallucis and the tibialis anticus, and anastomoses with the posterior tibial, Avith its internal calcanean branch, and with the internal plantar artery. They supply the joint, the articular ends of the bones, and the sheaths of the tendons around them. Extensor This muscle is situated on the dorsum of the Beevis Digi- foot, beneath the long extensor tendons of the TOBtiM. j;Qgg_ arises from the outer part of the os calcis, from the external calcaneo-astragaloid ligament, and from the anterior annular ligament. The fibres run obliquely over the foot, and terminate in four tendons, which pass forwards to the four inner toes. The inner one and the largest is inserted by an expanded tendon into the base of the first phalanx of the great toe; the others join the fibular side of the long extensor tendons to be inserted with them into the second and ungual phalanges. The tendon to the great toe crosses over the dorsal artery of the foot. It is supplied by a branch of the anterior tibial nerve. jjQjjgy. This artery, the continuation of the anterior Ahteey of tibial, runs over the instep to the back of the THE Foot. interval between the first and second metatarsal bones, where it divides into two branches—one, the dorsahs hal- lucis, runs along the dorsal aspect and the first interosseous space; the other, the communicating, sinks into the sole and joms the