337 MUSCULO-CUTANEOUS AND ULNAR NERVES. flexor profundus digitorum) ; the muscles of the ball of the thumb, the t\vo radial lumbricales, both sides of the thumb, fore and middle fingers, and the radial side of the ring finger, on their palmar aspect. McscuLo-cTjTA- This nerve (often called the external cutaneous NEocs Nerve. or perforans Casserii) arises in common with the external root of the median, from the external cord of the brachial plexus behind the pectoralis minor, and is situated on the outer side of the axillary artery. It perforates the coraco-brachialis obliquely, and then runs down between the biceps and the bra- chialis anticus to the outer side of the arm. A little above the elbow-joint, between the tendon of the biceps and.the supinator radii longus, the nerve pierces the deep fascia and becomes subcu- taneous ; then passing under the median cephalic vein, it divides into an anterior and a posterior branch, for the supply of the inte- guments of the forearm. The musculo-cutaneous nerve, in the upper part of its course, sends branches to the coraco-brachialis and the short head of the biceps, and, as it descends between the biceps and the brachialis anticus, it supplies both. Consequently, if the nerve were divided in the axilla, the result would be inability to bend the arm.^ This nerve also sends small filaments to supply the elbow-joint. This nerve arises from the inner cord of the brachial plexus, in common with the internal cuta- neous and the inner head of the median. It descends along the inner side of the brachial artery, as far as the insertion of the coraco-brachialis. The nerve then diverges from the artery, run- ning obliquely over the inner head of the triceps, perforates the internal intermuscular septum, and runs with the inferior profunda artery, behind the internal condyle. ' In some instances tfae musculo-cutaneous nerve descends on the inner side if the coraco-brachialis without perforating the muscle ; in these cases it often jends a larger branch than usual to the median nerve. The trunk of the musculo-cutaneous nerve may come from the median at any ooint between the axilla and the middle of the arm. In some subjects the nerve s absent; all its branches are then suj^plied by the median, which is larger than isnal. Such anomalies are easily explained by the fact of the two nerves having I common origin. Z