203 TKICUSPID VALVE, of various lengtli and thickness, wliicli cross each other in every direction ; this muscular network is generally filled with coagulated blood. Of these columnEe carneee there are three kinds: one stands out in relief from the ventricle; another is attached to the ventricle by its extremities only, the intermediate portion being free; a third, and by far the most important set, called muscuU papillares, is fixed by one extremity to the wall of the ventricle, while the other extremity gives attachment to the fine tendinous cords, chorclce tendinece, which regulate the action of the tricuspid valve. The number of these musculi papillares is equal to the number of the chief segments of the valve; hence there are three in the right, and two in the left ventricle. Of those in the right ventricle, one is attached to the septum. There are two openings in the right ventricle. One, the auric^do^entrimlar, through which the blood passes from the au.r- icle, is oval in form and placed at the base of the ventricle. It is surrounded by a ring of fibrous tissue, to which is attached the tricuspid valve. Tricuspid This is situated at the right auriculo-ventricular V^vE. opening, and consists of three triangular flaps. Like all the valves of the heart, it is formed by a fold of the lining membrane (endocardium) of the heart, strengthened by fibrous tissue, in which a fewmusciilar fibres maybe demonstrated. The bases of the valves are continuous with one another, so that they form a membranous ring between the auricle and ventricle, while the segments project into the cavity of the right ventricle. Of its three flaps, the largest or anterior is so placed, that, when not in action, it partially covers the orifice of the pulmonary artery; another, the internal, corresponds with the inferior wall of the ventricle; the third, or posterior, rests upon the septum ventriculorum. Observe the arrangement of the tendinous cords which regulate the action of the valve. First, they are all attached to the ven- tricular surface of the valve. Secondly, the tendinous cords pro- ceeding from a given papillary muscle are attached to the ad- jacent halves of two of the flaps ; consequently, when the ventricle contracts, and the papillary muscle also, the adjacent borders of