810 STRUCTURE OF THE RETINA. fine processes are given off into the molecular layer: tte outer extremity is very short and broad, and supports the base of a cone. 7. The layer of rods and cones, bacillary layer or Jacob's mem- brane (fig. 200, 7) is composed of minute cylindrical elements, arranged at right angles to the surface of the retina. The rods, the more numerous, are tapering processes running through the whole thickness of this layer, and, externally, are embedded to a greater or less depth in the pigmented layer, so that when viewed from without they have the appearance of mosaic pavement made up of round segments. Among the rods are intermingled nume- rous shorter, flask-shaped bodies called cones, which do not extend through more than half the thickness of this layer. Their outer extremities taper off towards the choroid; their inner or broad ends, like the rods, rest upon the membrana limitans externa, and thence are connected with the outer nuclear layer. Each rod and cone consists of two segments of equal lengths: the inner, in the case of the cones, very broad and bottle-shaped, of the rods only slightly bulged; the outer, fine and tapering off". The two segments vary in their microscopic appearance and in relations to reagents; the outer segments of both have a transverse striation, and break up in the direction of this striation; the inner segments are com- posed externally of longitudinal fibrilla3, internally of finely granular homogeneous substance continuous with the rod or cone fibre. The inner segments are deeply stained by carmine, iodine, &c., the outer segments not by the same reagents, but are by osmic acid. The rods are absent at the yellow spot. 8. The pigmentary layer (fig. 200, 8) is usually described as forming part of the choroid coat, but it should both development- ally and physiologically be included as one of the layers of the retina. It consists of a single layer of hexagonal nucleated cells filled with pigment-granules, which are most numerous towards the margins of the cells. The surface of the cells which looks towards the choroid is smooth and destitute of pigment-granules, and it is here that the nucleus is situated; the surface towards Jacob's membrane is filled with pigment, which is not well defined, but runs down among the rods, so that their outer part is embedded among the pigment-cells. The use of the pigment is to absorb the