'1.68 BRANCHES OF THE CCELIAC AXIS. duct, and in front of the portal vein: all three are contained in the right half of the lesser omentum. The hepatic gives off— a. The 2'>yloric, which descends to the upper border of the pylorus, and runs along tlie lesser curve of the stomach from right to left, inosculating with the coronaria ventriculi. h. The gastro-duodenalis descends behind the ascending portion of the duodenum, divides, after a short course, into (a) the gastro-ejnploica dextra, which runs along the greater curve of the stomach, between the layers of the great omentum, from right to left, and anastomoses with the gastro-epiploica sinistra from the splenic, supplying both surfaces of the stomach and the great omentum ; and (/3) the j)ancreatico-duode- nalis superior^ which runs down between the head of the pancreas and the descending portion of the duodenum, and anastomoses with the pancreatico-duodenalis inferior, a branch of the superior mesenteric, and with the pancreatic branches of the splenic. c. The cystic, commonly a branch of the right hepatic, ascends along the neck of the gall-bladder, and divides into two branches, one of which ramifies on the under surface of the gall-bladder, the other passes between the liver and the upper surface of the gall-bladder. Splenic The splenic, the largest of the three, proceeds Artery. tortuously towards the left side, ahove its corre- sponding vein, along the upper border of the pancreas to the hilum of the spleen, which it enters by numerous branches. It gives off : 1. Several small branches to the pancreas, pancreaticce parvce : one, rather larger than the rest, pancreaiica magna, accom- panies the pancreatic duct. These arteries anastomose ■\\dth the pan- creatico-duodenal branches of the hepatic and superior mesenteric arteries. 2. The gastro-epiploica sinistra, which runs to the right along the great curve of the stomach, between the layers of the great omentum, and inosculates with the gastro-epiploica dextra. 3. Vasa hrevia, five to seven in number, wliich proceed between the layers of the gastro-sj)lenic omentum, to the great end of the stomach, where they communicate with branches from the coronaria ventriculi, and the gastro-epiploica smistra. 4. The sj)lenic branches are five or six in number, and enter the fissure of the spleen. Thus the stomach is supplied with blood by four channels, which by their inosculations form a main artery along its lesser