GREY MATTER OF THE MEDULLA. 730 of the medulla, becomes altered both in appearance and in arrange- ment. The grey matter of the anterior cornua soon loses its charac- teristic arrangement, as it becomes detached from the main part of the grey matter by the passage through it of bundles of the white fibres of the medulla. At the lower part of the olivary body, it is pushed backwards and outwards in consequence of the increase of the anterior pyramids and the olivary bodies, so as to lie in the lateral part of the medulla, just in front of the posterior horn, and constitutes a grey nucleus called the nucleus lateralis. The larger portion of the grey matter of the anterior cornu is inter- sected by white fibres and becomes broken up into an interlacement of fibres and nerve-cells, forming the formatio reticularis. The grey matter of the posterior cornua becomes largely in- creased in the upper part of the medulla. At first the posterior cornua are pushed outwards by the restiform bodies, and subse- quently by the posterior pyramids, so that they lie at right angles to the posterior median fissure. At the same time the caput cornu posterioris enlarges, and later on forms a prominent grey mass, the tubercle of Rolando, which becomes separated from the chief part of the grey matter by being intersected by transverse and longitudiaal white fibres. Internal to the tubercle of Rolando, there are situated masses of grey matter in the restiform bodies and the posterior pyramids, constituting their nuclei. Higher up on a level with the middle of the olivary body, we find internal to the grey matter of the posterior pyramid (nucleus gracilis) the nuclei of origin of the two portions of the pneumogastric nerve, and of the hyiDoglossal nerve, the latter being nearest the middle line. The central canal gradually approaches the posterior surface of the medulla, and above the middle of it opens out to form the median groove in the floor of the fourth ventricle. On each side of the groove we find a collection of grey matter which enlarges in the upper part and constitutes the nucleus teres. The nuclei of the origins of the spinal accessory, the pneumo- gastric, and the glosso-j)haryngeal nerves will be described subse- quently.