550 STRUCTURE OF THE liLADDEK. The bladder must be laid open by an incision along its front, to examine its interior. In a recently contracted bladder, the mucous membrane is disposed in irregular folds, which disappear when the bladder is distended. In a healthy state, it is pale; when inflamed, it becomes of a bright red. Under the microscope^, its surface is seen to be studded with mucous follicles. Thea follicles secrete the thick ropy mucus in inflammation of th bladder. The mucous coat is loosely connected with the subjacent mus cular layer, except at the trigone of the bladder, where it is firmly adherent. The epithelium is composed of flattened polyhedral cells of the transitional variety, and beneath these there have been described by Klein a layer of large club-shaped cells arranged at right angles to the surface. When the interior of the bladder is examined, there is seen immediately behind the urethra a triangular smooth surface, the apex being at the urethra. This surface is called the trigonvm vesicce, and is paler and smoother than the vesical mucous mem- brane elsewhere ; laterally, it is bounded by ridges extending from the urethra to the orifices of the ureters, the base being between the two ureters. This space corresponds with another one already described, external to the bladder, and which is bounded laterally by the vesiculse seminales, and behind by the reflection of the peritoneum. It is more richly provided with blood-vessels' and nerves than the rest of the bladder, and is endowed with more acute sensibility. This is why a stone is more painful when the bladder is empty; and in the erect, than in the recumbent posi- tion. The vesical orifice of the urethra is situated at the lower and anterior part of the bladder, not at the most dependent part, which forms the pouch behind the orifice, in which urine is apt to accu- mulate in old persons. It appears small and contracted in the fresh bladder, but, if the little finger be introduced into it, it will dilate considerably. Immediately behind the orifice there is, in some bladders, a slight elevation called the uvula. It is composed of a portion of the mucous membrane raised up by an accumulation of the prostatic and submucous tissue, but is rarely of sufiicient size