394 EXTENSORS OF THE THUMB. tlie carpus, and terminates in a tendon, which passes along a common groove with the extensor primi internodii poUicis, lined by synovial membrane, on the outer part of the lower end of the radius, and is inserted into the base of the metacarpal bone of the thumb, and frequently also by a tendinous slip into the trapezium. Extensor This, the smallest of the deep muscles, arises Pbimi Inteknodii from the posterior surface of the radius, below the PoLLicis. preceding, and from the interosseous membrane. It descends obliquely in company with the preceding muscle, turns over the radial extensors of the wrist, and terminates upon a tendon which passes beneath the annular ligament, through the groove on the outer part of the radius, and is inserted into the radial side of the base of the first phalanx of the thumb. Extensor This muscle covers part of the origin of the Secundi Inter- preceding muscle, and arises from the posterior NODH PoLLicis. surfaco of the ulna, below the extensor ossis meta- carpi pollicis, and from the interosseous membrane. The tendon receives fleshy fibres as low as the wrist, passes beneath the annu- lar ligament in a distinct groove on the back of the radius, crosses the tendons of the radial extensors of the wrist, proceeds over the metacar^Dal bone a"nd the first phalanx of the thumb, and is inserted into the base of the last phalanx. The tendons of the three extensors of the thumb may be easily distinguished in one's own hand. The extensor ossis metacaqn and primi internodii pollicis cross obliquely over the radial artery, where it lies on the external lateral ligament of the carpus; the extensor secundi internodii pollicis crosses the artery just before it sinks into the palm, between the first and second metacarpal bones, and is a good guide to the vessel. The action of the three extensors- of the thumb is implied by their names. Extensor This muscle arises from the posterior surface of Indicis, or Indi- the tilna, below the extensor secundi internodii CATOR. pollicis, and slightly from the interosseous mem- brane. The tendon passes beneath the posterior annular ligament, in the same groove, on the back of the radius, with the tendons of the extensor digitorum communis. It then proceeds over the back