184 THORACIC DUCT. Thoracic Duct The thoracic duct (fig. 43) is a canal, from AND Eecepta- fifteen to eighteen inches long, through which the cuLUM Chyli. contents of the lacteal vessels from the intestines and the lymphatics from the lower limbs are conveyed into the blood. These vessels converge to an oval dilatation, termed recej^- taculum chyli (cistern of Pecquet), situated a little to the right side of the front of the body of the second lumbar vertebra, behind the aorta and close to the right crus of the diaphragm. Then, getting to the right side of the aorta, it ascends through the aortic opening of the diaphragm into the chest, and runs up the posterior mediastinum, still along the right side of the aorta, between this vessel and the vena azygos major, and opposite the sixth dorsal vertebra crosses over the vena azygos minor. Near the third dorsal vertebra, it inclines to the left side, and then passes behind the arch of the aorta and the oesophagus, and ascends on the left side of this tube, between it and the left pleura; subsequently the duct passes up between the oesophagus and the left subclavian artery, as high as the seventh cervical vertebra, resting on the longus colli. It then emerges from beneath the carotid sheath, curves downwards over the subclavian artery, in front of the scalenus anticus, and opens into the back part of the confluence of the left internal jugular and subclavian veins. The orifice of the duct is guarded by two valves which permit fluid to pass from the duct into the vein, but not vice versa. Valves, disposed like those in the venous system, are placed at short intervals along the duct, more numerous in its upper part, so that its contents can only jDass upwards.' The diameter of the duct varies in different parts of its course; at its commencement it is about three lines in diameter, at the sixth dorsal it is about two lines, and it enlarges again towards the termination. It receives the lymphatics from the lower extremities, and from all the abdominal viscera (except the convex surface of the liver and the abdominal walls); above ' The thoracic duct varies in size in different individuals. It may divide in its course into two branches, which subsequently reunite; instead of one there may be several terminal orifices. Instances have been observed in which the duct has terminated on the right instead of the left side (Fleischmann, Leichenbffnnngen, 1815 ; also Morrison, Journal of Anat., vol. vi. p. 427). It has been seen to ter- minate in the vena azygos (Miiller's Archiv, 1834).