303 TEMPORO-MAXILLARY ARTICULATION. ligamentous fibres. There are intercostal synovial membranes in front between the adjacent borders of the sixth, seventh, eighth, and ninth costal cartilages. Movements of The movements permitted between the heads of THE EiBs. the ribs and the bodies of the vertebras are those of elevation and depression, and those of rotation forwards and backwards; the centre of these movements being at the interarticu- lar ligament. Between the tubercles and the transverse processes there is the movement of an arthrodial nature ; and between the costal cartilages and the sternum, that of elevation and depression. The movement of the first rib is very slight; that of the second is freer; and mobility of the ribs gradually increases from above downwards. Articulation '^^^ condyle of the lower jaw articulates with OF the Lowek the glenoid cavity of the temporal bone, and forms ^^"^^ an arthrodial joint. The joint is provided with an interarticular fibro-cartilage, with external and internal lateral and capsular ligaments, and two synovial membranes (fig. 74). The external lateral ligament extends from the zygoma and its tubercle; its fibres pass downwards and backwards to the outer surface and posterior border of the neck of the jaw. The internal lateral ligament—a long, thin, flat band—extends from the spinous process of the sphenoid bone to the inner border of the dental foramen. The capsular ligament consists of a few scattered fibres attached above to the margin of the glenoid cavity, below to the neck of the jaw. The intera/)'ticular fibro-cartilage is a thin plate of an oval form, and thicker at the margin than at the centre. It is placed hori- zontally, and its upper surface is concavo-convex from before back- wards ; its lower surface is concave. It is connected on the outer side to the external lateral ligament, and on the inner side some of the fibres of the external pterygoid muscle are inserted into it. There are two synovial membranes—an upper and a lower—for the joint. The larger and looser of the two is situated between the glenoid cavity and the fibro-cartilage. The lower is interposed between the fibro-cartilage and the condyle of the jaw. They