LIGATURE OF THE EXTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. 493 between these muscles for their supply. The main trunk, much reduced in size, inosculates with the ilio-lumbar derived from the internal iliac. Ligature of ^he best way of tying the external iliac is to THE External make a curved incision at the lower part of the Ii-i^c- abdomen, beginning a little above the middle of the crural arch, and ending about an inch to the inner side of the spine of the ilium. The strata of the abdominal muscles, with the fascia transversalis, should then be divided to the same extent; after which, the peritoneum with the spermatic vessels must be separated by the fingers from the iliac fossa. It is necessary to make a small incision through the sheath of the vessels, to facilitate the passage of the needle. Eemember that the vein is closely con- nected to its inner side,^ that the genito-crural nerve is not far off, and that the circumflex iliac vein crosses the artery just above Poupart's ligament. After ligature of the artery the collateral circulation would be maintained by anastomoses between the internal mammary and the deep epigastric; between the lumbar arteries and the circumflex iliac; between the pubic branch of the obturator and the branch of the epigastric ; between the gluteal and the internal and external circumflex; between the sciatic and the first perforating and the internal circumflex; between the obturator and the internal cir- cumflex ; between the spermatic, the deferential, and the cremasteric ' This relative position of the vessels does not always exist. In old subjects, less frequently in adults, it is sometimes found that the external iliac artery runs very tortuously, instead of nearly straight, along the brim of the pelvis. But the vein does not follow the artery in its windings, and may possibly lie outside the artery just where we propose to place the ligature. The mode of performing the operation described in the text is recommended by Sir A. Cooper. Mr. Abernethy, however, who first set the example of tying this artery in 1796, adopted a somewhat different proceeding. He says : ' I first made an incision about three inches in length through the integuments of the abdomen, in the direction of the artery, and thus laid bare the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, which I next divided from its connection with Poupart's ligament, in the direction of the external wound, for the extent of about two inches. The margins of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles being thus exposed, I introduced my finger beneath them for the protection of the peritoneum, and then divided them. Next, with my hand, I pushed the peritoneum and its contents upwards and inwards, and took hold of the artery.'