STRUCTURE OF THE STOMACH. 599 The longitudinal fih-es are continuous with the longitudinal fibres of the oesophagus, and spread out over the stomach, being most numerous along the curvatures of the stomach : they are at the pyloric end continuous with the longitudinal fibres of the duodenum. The circular fibres are well-marked about the middle of the stomach, but are most abundant at the pylorus, where they form ;i powerful sphincter. The oblique filrres are scattered over the sides of the stomach, and are most distinct at the entrance of the oesophagus, crossing obliquely from left to right and from right to left. They are con- tinuous with the well-marked circular fibres of the oesophagus. The submucous coat serves to connect the muscular with the mucous coats. It consists of areolar tissue, and permits the muscular and mucous coats to move freely on each other, and allows the blood-vessels to ramify minutely before they enter the mucous membrane. When the stomach is laid open from the oesophageal to the pyloric orifice, the mucous membrane is seen to be thick, of pale pink or straw colour, and is gathered into longitudinal folds—rugx —which disappear when the stomach is distended. If a portion of the mucous membrane be examined under the microscope, its surface will be seen to be mapped out into small hexagonal pits or alveoli, surrounded by ridges, giving it a honey- combed appearance. The pits vary from y^th to ^so"*^ inch in diameter. At the bottom of them are a number of minute apertures, the orifices of the gastric follicles. In a perpendicular- section, the follicles are arranged in parallel lines at right angles to the surface, and terminate in blind sacculated ends set in the submucous tissue. The entire thickness of the mucous membrane is made up of these tubular glands. The follicles consist of twO' kinds, mucous and jpeptic glands. Tubular in shape, they have a basement membrane lined with epithelium, and average about -^^th of an inch long, and xtTo^^ inch in diameter. The mucous- glands are found over the whole surface, but are most numerous at the pyloric end of the stomach. They are composed of tubes, each consisting of two or three short tubules, opening into a commoa