657 GLUTEAL VESSELS AND NERVES. The line of separation between them is marked by a large branch of the gluteal artery. Gluteus This muscle arises from the surface of the ilium Minimus. below the upper and lower curved lines, and as far back as the margin of the great sacro-sciatic notch. Its fibres pass over the capsule of the hip-joint, and converge to a tendon which is inserted into a depression on the front part of the great trochanter, a bursa being interposed. This muscle and the pre- ceding are supplied by the superior gluteal nerve, a branch of the lumbo-sacral cord. The chief action of this and the preceding muscle is to assist in balancing the pelvis steadily on the thigh, as when we are standing on one leg; with the fixed point at the ilium, they are abductors of the thigh. The anterior fibres of the gluteus medius co-operate with the gluteus minimus and the tensor fasciae in rotating the thigh inwards. Gluteai. The gluteal artery is the largest branch of the in- Vessels and ternal iliac (p. 540). Emerging from the pelvis Nekves. through the great sciatic foramen between the pyriformis and the gluteus medius, it divides into two large branches for the supply of the gluteal muscles. Of these, the superficial proceeds forwards between the gluteus maximus and medius, both of which they supply, and eventually anastomose with the poste- rior sacral and sciatic arteries ; the other—the cZeep— after a short course, divides into two branches : one—the superior—curves for- wards along the origin of the gluteus minimus, towards the anterior ' part of the ilium, to anastomose with the ascending branches of the ' external circumflex and the circumflex iliac arteries; the other— the inferior branch—crosses obliquely over the glutens minimus towards the insertion of this muscle, and anastomoses with the external and internal circumflex arteries. The nerve which accompanies the gluteal artery is the siiperim- gluteal nerve, a branch of the lumbo-sacral cord. It passes out above the pyriformis, and divides into two branches—a superior and an inferior branch ; the superior branch accompanies the corre- (jsponding branch of the gluteal artery, and supplies the gluteus imedius and minimus ; the inferior branch accompanies the inferior branch of the gluteal artery, and distributes filaments to the gluteus u u