I SPINAL ACCESSORY NERVE, 373 the trapezius, and the upper border of the latissimus dorsi, a tri- -angular space is observed when the arm is raised, in which the lower fibres of the rhomboideus major and part of the sixth in- tercostal space are exposed. Immediately above the crest of the ilium, between the free margins of the latissimus dorsi and external oblique, there is, also, an interval in which a little of the internal oblique can be seen. Ltjmbae OB This dense shining aponeurosis of the back Vertebral (sometimes termed the aponeurosis of the latissi- Aponeueosis. y^^^g ^orsi) forms the posterior part of the sheath of the erector spinee. It is pointed above, where it is continuous with the deep cervical fascia, broader and stronger below. It consists of tendinous fibres, which are attached internally to the spines of the dorsal, all the lumbar and sacral vertebrae; exter- nally, to the angles of the ribs; and inferiorly it is blended with the tendons of the serratus posticus inferior and latissimus dorsi. When suppuration takes place in the loins, constituting a lumbar abscess in connection with spinal disease, the pus is seated beneath this aponeurosis, and is therefore tardy in coming to the surface. Reflect the trapezius from its insertion. On its ^)lSSECTIO\« under surface see the ramifications of its nutrient artery, the superficicdis colli, a branch of the posterior scapular. A large nerve, the spinal accessory, enters its under surface near the clavicle, and divides into filaments, which, reinforced by fila- ments from the third and fourth cervical nerves, are distributed to the muscle as far as its lower border. Spinal Acces- This nerve, the eleventh cerebral nerve, arises S0K1 Neeve. by two roots—the accessory and the spinal por- tions : the former from the medulla oblongata, the latter from the spinal cord. The accessory portion, the smaller, arises by four or five filaments from a grey nucleus in the floor of the fourth ventricle, below the origin of the pneumogastric nerve; the sjnnal portion arises from the lateral part of the cervical portion of the spinal cord by several filaments, some of which arise as low as the sixth cervical vertebra, and which may be traced into the grey matter of the anterior horn. Formed by the union of these roots, the nerve •enters the skull through the foramen magnum, and leaves it again,