489 ILIAC us. As it passes under the crural arch, the tendon of the psoas lies immediately over the capsule of the hip-joint, and there is a large bursa between them to facilitate the play of the tendon. It should be borne in mind that occasionally, even in young subjects, but more frequently in old ones, in consequence of wear and tear, this bursa communicates with the hip-joint. The fact is important, for it explains how a psoas abscess sometimes makes its way into the hip-joint, a result frequently fatal. Once in about eight or ten subjects there is a Psoas Pabvus. i ni t 7i it small mvTScle called the psoas ]3arvus placed super- ficially to the preceding muscle. It arises from the sides of the bodies of the last dorsal and the first lumbar vertebrse, and the intervening fibro-cartilage; thence, descending in front, and to the inner side of the psoas magmas, it ends in a long flat tendon, which spreads out, and is inserted into the linea ilio-pectinea. ^ The iliacus arises from the iliac fossa, the inner lip of the crest of the -ilium, the ilio-lumbar liga- ment,' the base of the sacrum, and the anterior superior spine of the nium; below, also from the anterior inferior spine and from the capsule of the hip-joint. The fibres converge beneath the crural arch, and are inserted mainly into the outer side of the tendon of the psoas, and partly into the triangular surface of the femur, below and anterior to the lesser trochanter. Thus the two muscles, so far as their action goes, may be considered as one, and are sometimes called the ilio-psoas. The iliacus in the abdomen is in relation, in front, with the' iliac fascia, the external cutaneous and anterior crural nerves, with the caecum on the right, and with the sigmoid flexure on the left side; behind, it is in contact with bone; on its inner side is the psoas. In the thigh it is in relation, in front, with the rectus, the sartorius, the fascia lata, the anterior crural nerve, the pro- funda femoris and the external circumflex arteries; heJiind, with the capsular ligament of the hip-joint; on the inner side, with the psoas; and on the outer, with the crureus and vastus internus muscles. ' This ligament extends from the transverse process of the last lumbar vertebra to the ilium.