DEEP CERVICAL GLANDS. 88 red blood-cells in various stages of disintegration and decolorisa- tion.' The blood-vessels pass into the connective tissue surround- ing the vesicles, and form a dense capillary plexus, which comes into close relation with the vesicular epithelium cells, and with the endothelium of the lymph-spaces ; from these lymph-spaces, which are placed between the vesicles, the lymphatics have, their com- mencement. The function of the gland is probably that of disin- tegration of the red blood-cells, and of the conveyance into the general lymphatic system of the products of these degenerative changes. An enlargement of the thyroid body is termed a ' bronchocele.' If the relation of its lobes to the trachea and oesophagus be pro- perly understood, it is easy to predicate the consequences which may result from their enlargement. The nature and severity of the symptoms will to a certain extent be determined by the part of the organ aifected. An enlargement of the left lobe is more likely to produce a difficulty in swallowing, on account of the in- clination of the oesophagus towards the left side. If the isthmus be enlarged, difficulty in breathing will probably be the prominent symptom, and, in order to remove this danger, the isthmus has been divided, and in part removed. An instance is related by Allan Burns in which the isthmus was placed between the trachea and the oesophagus. It must be obvious that enlargement of a part so situated would occasion great difficulty in swallowing. I have seen two cases in which the lateral lobes projected so far inwards that they completely embraced the back of the oesophagus. Small lymphatic glands are observed about the thyroid body, especially in front of the trachea; one is often situated over the crico-thyroid membrane. These glands, if enlarged by disease, might be mistaken for a small bronchocele. • Deep Cekvical the connective tissue which surrounds the Lymphatic great vessels of the neck, we meet with a series Glands. of lymphatic glands, called the deep cervical. They form an uninterrupted chain (whence their name glandulce ' Baber, ' Eesearches on the Minute Structure of the Thyroid Gland,' P/ittos. Trans. 1881.