58 LACHRYMAL ARTERY. side of tlie orbit between tlie superior and internal recti, to inoscu- late with the internal angular artery (the terminal branch of the facial). Its branches arise in the following order :— a. Lachrymal artery.—This branch proceeds along the outer wall of the orbit above the external rectus, in company with the' nerve of the same name to the lachrymal gland. After supplying the gland, it ter- minates in the conjunctiva and eyelids. In the orbit it gives off some malar branches which pierce the malar bone to get to the temporal fossa, and anastomose Avith the deep temporal arteries. It also sends a branch backwards through the sphenoidal iissure to anastomose witli the arteria meningea media. h. Su])ra-orbitnl artery.—This bi-anch runs fonvards \vith the frontal nerve under the roof of the orbit and upon the levator palpebrse. It emerges on the forehead through the supra-orbital foramen, where it communicates Avith the superficial temporal, frontal and angular arteries. c. Arteria centralis retiiuH.—This small branch enters the optic nerve obliquely on the outer aspect close to the optic foramen. It runs in the centre of this nerve to the interior of the eye. d. Ciliary arteries.—These branches may be arranged in three groups. The short ciliary, twelve to fifteen in number, proceed tor- tuously forwards with the optic nerve, and pierce the sclerotic coat at the back of the eye to supply the choroid coat and the iris. The lony ciliary, two iu number, run on each side of the optic nerve, enter the sclerotic, and pass horizontally forwards, one on each side of the globe, between the sclerotic and the choroid, nearly as far as the iris whei'e eacli divides into an upper and a lower bi'anch. These brandies of the two long ciliary arteries anastomose with the antei'ior ciliary and form two vascular circles, an outer at the circumference of the iris, the circulws major and an inner at the free margin of the iris, the circuhis minor. The anterior ciliary are branches of the muscular and lachry- mal arteries' and joroceed with the tendons of the recti, and enter the front part of the sclerotic coat. In inflammation of the iris the vascular zone round the cornea arises from enlargement and congestion of the anterior ciliary arteries. e. Ethmoidal arteries.—Of these arteries, two in number, the anterior and larger passes through the anterior ethmoidal foramen with the nasal nerve ; the iwslerior enters the posterior ethmoidal foramen with tlie spheno-ethmoidal nerve. The anterior gives off branches to the frontal and anterior ethmoidal cells, and a nasal branch to the nose ; it likewise gives off an anterior meningeal branch to the dura