LIGAMENTS OF THE TARSUS. 7U9 and inwards to the astragalus in front of its malleolar articular surface. The middle fascicidiis, round and long, passes obliquely downwards and backwards to the outer surface of the os calcis. The posterior fasciadus passes from the posterior part of the external malleolus, nearly horizontally outwards, to the back of the astragalus below its upper articular surface. Besides flexion and extension, the ankle-joint admits of a slight lateral movement, only permitted in the extended state, for the better direction of our steps. In adaptation to this movement the internal malleolus is shorter than the outer; it is not so tightly confined by its ligaments, and its articular surface is part of a cylinder. Open the joint to see that the breadth of the articular surfaces of the bones is greater in front than behind. The object of this is to render the astragalus less liable to be dislocated backwards. Whenever this happens, the astragalus must of necessity become firmly locked between the malleoli. Ligaments astragalus is the key-stone of the aroli of coN>T:cTrNG THE the foot, aud supports the whole weight of the Bones of the body. It articulates with the os calcis and the os Tabsus. scaphoides in such a manner as to permit the abduction and adduction of the foot, so useful in the direction of our steps. AsTRAGALo- ^ho astragalus articulates with the os calcis by calcanean two surfaces separated by the deep interosseous Ligaments. groove, of which the posterior is concave, and the anterior convex. The articulations are strengthened by the three ligaments, the external and the posterior astragalo-calcanean, and the interosseous. The external astragalo-ccdcanean ligament is a short, quadrilateral fasciculus, passing from the outer surface of the astragalus, in front of the anterior fasciculus of the external lateral ligament, almost directly downwards to the outer surface of the os calcis. The posterior astragalo-calcanean ligament is a short oblique band, which passes from the posterior border of the astragalus to the upper border of the os calcis. The interosseous ligament, a very thick strong band of fibres