ARCHES OF THE SOFT PALATE. 233-. ■when at rest, hangs obliquely downwards and backwards; but in swallowing, it is raised to the horizontal position by the levatores palati, comes into apposition with the back of the pharynx, and thus prevents the food from passing through the nose. On making a perpendicular section through the soft palate, you come first upon the oral mucous membrane ; then you see that the great bulk of it is made up of muciparous glands, which lie thick on its under surface to lubricate the passage of the food. Above these glands is the thin layer of the palato-glossus, then the insertion of the tensor palati forming the broad aponeurosis of the palate; still higher, are the two portions of the palato-pharyn- geus, separated by the fibres of the levator palati, the azygos uvulae, and, lastly, the nasal mucous membrane. The soft palate is sup- plied with blood by the descending palatine branch of the internal maxillary, the ascending palatine branch of the facial, the ascend- ing pharyngeal and the dorsales linguas of the lingual artery. Its nerves are derived from the palatine branches of the superior maxillary division of the fiiffch and from the glosso-pharyngeal. ^ The uvula projects from the middle of the soft palate, and gives the free edge of it the appearance of a double arch. It contains a number of muciparous glands, and a small muscle, the azygos uvulce. Its length varies according to the state of its muscle. It occasionally becomes permanently elon- gated, and causes considerable irritation, a tickle in the throat, and harassing cough. When you have to remove a portion of it, cut off" only the redu.ndant mucous membrane. Abches or Th® ^^fi paZftfe is connected with the tongue Pillars of the and pharynx by two folds of mucous membrane Palate. on each side, enclosing muscular fibres. These are the antenm' and posterior a/rches or pillars of the palate. The ante- rior' arch describes a curve downwards and forwards, from the base of the uvula to the side of the tongue. It is well seen when the tongue is extruded. The posterior arch, commencing at the side of" the uvula, curves downwards and backwards, along the free margin of the palate, and terminates on the side of the pharynx. The posterior arches, when the tongue is depressed, can be seen througli the span of the anterior. The pillars of each side diverge from