THE BICEPS. 330 and descends in the groove between the two tuberosities. The tendon is retained in the groove by a fibrous bridge derived from the capsule of the joint, and connected with the tendon of the pec- toralis major. Divide this bridge, and see that the synovial mem- bi-ane of the joint is reflected round the tendon, and accompanies it for about two inches down the groove, thus forming a synovial fold. The object of this is to facilitate the play of the tendon, and to carry little arteries (from the anterior circumflex) for its supply. The two'heads unite about the middle of the arm, and form a single muscle, which terminates on a strong flat tendon of considerable length; this dips down into the triangular space at the bend of the elbow, and, after a slight twist upon itself, is inserted into the posterior part of the tubercle of the radius. The anterior part of the tubercle, over which the tendon plays, is crusted with cartUage, and a bursa intervenes to diminish friction. The most internal fibres of the muscle are inserted into a strong broad aponeurosis, which is prolonged from the inner border of the tendon to the fascia on the inner side of the forearm. This aponeurosis, called the semilunar fascia of the biceps, protects the brachial vessels and the median nerve at the bend of the elbow. The action of the biceps is twofold. 1. It is a flexor of the forearm. 2. It is a powerful sujDinator of the forearm, in conse- quence of its insertion into the posterior part of the tubercle of the radius. Its power of supination is greatest when the forearm is half bent, because its tendon is then inserted at a right angle. Why does the long tendon jDass tlirough the shoulder-joint ? It acts like a strap, and confines the head of the humerus in its proper centre of motion.' But for this tendon, the head of the bone, when the deltoid acts, would be pulled directly ujDwards and strike against the under surface of the acromion. When the tendon is ruptured, or dislocated from its groove, a man can move his arm backwards and forwards, but he cannot raise the smallest weight.- The ' Another action of the long tendon of the triceps wotuld seem to be that of an internal rotator of the humerus when that bone is rotated externally. The marked prominence of the internal tuberosity and the gi-oove on its outer aspect would favour this view. = See a preparation in the Museum of St. Bartholomew's Hospital.