226 THE PHARYNX. to tlie styloid muscles, and it has in close relation with it, the common and internal carotid arteries, the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumogastric, spinal accessory, hypoglossal and sympathetic nerves; the internal pterygoid, tensor palati and stylo-pharyngeus muscles; the lingual and ascending pharyngeal arteries, the superior laryngeal and external laryngeal nerves, the ascending palatine ai-tery, and the internal jugular vein. Its dimensions are not equal throughout. Its breadth at the upper part is equal to that of the posterior openings of the nose : here it is only required to convey air, but it becomes much wider in the situation where it transmits the food—that is, at the back of the mouth ; thence it gradually contracts to the oesophagus. The pharynx, therefore, may be compared to a funnel communicating in front by wide apertures with the nose, the mouth, and the larynx; while the cesophagvis represents the tube leading from its lower end. The upper part of the funnel forms a cul-de-sac at the basilar process of the occipital bone. At this part there is, on each side, the opening of a narrow canal, called the Eustachian tube, through which air passes to the tympanum of the ear.' Before the muscles of the pharynx can be examined, we must remove a layer of thin fascia, termed the plimyngeal fascia. It is the layer of deep cervical fascia behind the pharynx, and must not be confounded with the proper j)liarijngeal aponeurosis, which intervenes between its muscular and mucous walls. At the back of the pharynx, near the base of the skull, are a few himfliatio glands. They sometimes enlarge, and form a perceptible tumour in the pharynx. In removing the fascia from the pharyngeal muscles, notice 1 Observe that the pharynx conducts to the oesophagus by a gradual contraction of its channel. This transition, however, is in some cases sufficiently abrupt to, detain a foreign body, such as a morsel of food more bulky than usual, at the top of the oesophagus. If such a substance become firmly impacted in this situation, one can readily understand that it will not only prevent the descent of food into the stomach, but that it may occasion, by its pressure on the trachea, alarming symptoms of suffocation. Supposing that the obstacle can neither be removed by the forceps, nor pushed into the stomach by the probang, it may then become necessary to extract it by making an incision into the oesophagus on the left side of the neck.