LIGAMENTS OF THE OS HYOIDES. 2^9- trachea ; beliind it, is the pharynx, into the anterior part of which it opens. Before commencing the dissection of the larynx, the student should make himself acquainted with the cartilages which compose it, and the ligaments which connect them, as seen in a dry pre- paration. This bone, named from its resemblance to the Os Hyoides. Greek Upsilon, is situated between the larynx and the tongue, and serves for the attachment of the muscles of the tongue. It may be felt immediately below, and one inch and a half behind, the symphysis of the jaw. It is arched in shape, and consists of a body, two greater and two lesser cornua. The body (hasi-hyal) is the thick central portion. Its anterior surface is convex, and has a median vertical ridge: on each side of which are depressions for the attachments of muscles; its posterior surface is smooth, deeply concave, and corresponds to the epi- glottis. The greater cornua (thyro-liyals), right and left, project backwards for about an inch and a half, with a slight inclination upwards, and terminate in blunt ends tipped with cartilage. In young subjects they are connected to the body of the bone by fibro-cartilage; this in process of years becomes ossified. The lesser cornua (cerato-hyals) are connected, one on each side, to the point of junction between the body and the greater cornua, by means of a little joint lined with synovial membrane, which admits of free motion. They are of the size of a barleycorn, and give -attachment to the stylo-hyoid ligaments. ^ The OS hyoides is connected with the thyroid cartilage by several ligaments, which contain a quantity of elastic tissue. There is:—1. The thyro-hyoid mem- brane, a broad fibrous membrane, which proceeds from the supe- rior border of the thyroid cartilage to the upper and posterior part of the hyoid bone. In front of this membrane there is a bursa, of which the use is to facilitate the play of the thyroid cartilage behind the os hyoides. The central portion is stronger than the lateral, and is called the anterioi' thyro-hyoid ligament. Through the lateral part of this membrane, the superior laryngeal nerve and artery enter the larynx. 2. The right and left lateral