MUSCLES OF THE ORBIT. 55 Obuquus This muscle arises from the imier side of the Superior. optic foramen. It runs forwards along the inner and upper side of the orbit, and terminates in a round tendon, which passes through a fibro-cartilaginous pulley—trochlea— attached to the trochlear fossa in the frontal bone. From the pulley the tendon is reflected outwards and backwards, beneath the supe- rior rectus, and is inserted by an expanded tendon into the outer part of the sclerotic coat, midway between the cornea and the entrance of the optic nerve. The pulley is lined by a synovial membrane, which is continued over the tendoUi The action of this muscle will be considered with that of the inferior oblique. It is supplied by the fourth nerve, which enters the ^back part of its upper surface. The frontal nerve and levator palpebrte are now to be cut through the middle and reflected, the front part forwards and the hind part backwards. On its under aspect is seen the twig from the upper division of the third nerve entering it. On reflecting this muscle the superior rectus is exposed. The superior rectus arises by a tendinous origin from the upper margin of the optic foramen and from the sheath of the optic nerve, and is inserted by a broad thin tendon into the sclerotic coat, about a quarter of an inch from the margin of the cornea (p. 61). ^ Reflect this muscle by cutting through the Dissection. . . . o o middle, and, in doing so, observe a filament from the third nerve entering its under aspect. After the removal of a quantity of granular fat, the following objects are exposed : beneath the muscle are the optic nerve, the ophthalmic artery and vein, the nasal nerve and its ciliary branches crossing over the optic nerve, and further forwards is the reflected tendon of the superior oblique; on the outer side of the optic nerve, and close to the ophthalmic artery, is the lenticular ganglion, with numerous ciliary filaments passing forwards from it to enter the sclerotic. The student should now trace backwards the two roots which enter the upper and lower angle respectively of the ganglion, the upper being its sensoiy branch from the nasal, the lower its motor root from the lower division of the third nerve. Further back should Ije traced the third, the nasal branch of the ophthalmic, and the