DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. 238 the stylo-pliaryngei on each side).' The food, having reached the pharynx, is prevented from ascending into the nasal passages by the approximation of the posterior palatine arches, and the eleva- tion of the soft palate, which thus forms a horizontal temporary roof to the pharynx; it is prevented from returning into the mouth by the pressure of the retracted tongue, and the contraction of the anterior palatine arches : it cannot enter the larynx, because its upper opening is closed and protected by the falling of the epiglottis : - consequently, being forcibly compressed by the con- strictors of the pharynx, the food passes into the oesophagus, through which it is conveyed into the stomach by the undulatory contraction of that tube. The food passes with different degrees of rapidity through the different parts of its course ; but most rapidly through the pharynx. The necessity of this is obvious, as the air-tube must be closed while the food passes over it, and the closure produces a temporary interruption to respiration. The progress of the food through the oesophagus is slow and graduaL DISSECTION OF THE LAEYNX. Situation and The larynx is the upper dilated part of the Belations. windpipe, in which phonation takes place. It consists of nximerous cartilages articulated together to form an open tube, and to protect the delicate structures concerned in vocalisation. It forms a prominence in the middle line of the neck, covered in front by the integument and cervical fascia, the sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and thyro-hyoid muscles, and the thyroid body. It has the large vessels of the neck on each side. Above, it is attached to the hyoid bone; below, it is continuous with the 1 The larynx being also elevated and drawn forward, a greater space is thus left between it and the vertebrse for the distention of the pharynx. 2 This falling of the epiglottis is effected, not by special muscular agency, but by the simultaneous elevation of the larynx and the retraction of the tongue. A perpendicular section through all the parts concerned is necessary to show the working of this mechanism.