THE PENIS. 559 passes from the under surface of tlae glans to tlie prepuce is called mvnum p-eimtii. The skin, altered in character, is reflected over i lie glans, to which it is intimately adherent, and at the orifice of the urethra is continuous with the mucous membrane. The bulk of the penis consists of two parallel cylindrical bodies, of erectile structure, named from the appearance of their interior orpom cavernosa. In a groove along their under surface is lodged a third cylindrical body, the corpus spongiosum, composed of vascular spongy tissue, through which runs the urethra; an expansion of this at the end of the organ forms the glans. These structures, then—the corpora cavernosa and the corpus spongiosum—together form the penis; though the corpus spongiosum appears closely united to the corpora cavernosa, yet it is quite distinct from them, as shown in the transverse section (fig. 134). CoRPOKA The corpora cavernosa, placed side by side, con- - Caveknosa. stitute more than two-thirds of the bulk of the penis. Each commences posteriorly by a gradually tapering portion, called the cms penis, which is attached along a groove in • the rami of the ischium and os pubis, where it is embraced by the erector penis (p. 512). The two crura converge, come into appo- : sition at the root of the penis, prior to which each presents an • enlargement, less in man than in some animals, called the hulh of the corpxis cavernosum; they then run together, side by side, to form ' the body of the organ. Anteriorly, each terminates in a rounded extremity, received into a corresponding depression in the glans, to which it is connected by fibrous tissue. A section through the corpus cavernosum shows that its interior is composed of a delicate reticular structure, surrounded by a white I fibrous and elastic coat, from half a line to a line in thickness, and is separated from its fellow by a fibrous septum called the septum pectiniforme. Tlie septum pectiniforme is a median vertical partition between 1 venience in childhood, but is apt, after puberty, to become troublesome and painful, s ■so that it may become necessary to slit up the prepuce and set the glans at liberty. In persons who have a tight foreskin, it sometimes happens that, when the glans has been uncovered, the prepuce cannot be again drawn over it: this is called a J paraphymosis. The neck of the glans becomes tightly girt; great distension and ! inflammation are the consequences unless the foreskin be reduced.