47 SENSORY NERVES OF THE FACE. The buccal branches pass for^vards over the masseter parallel with the parotid duct, and supply the buccinator : they communicate with the buccal branch of tlie inferior maxillary nerve (third division of the fifth), and with the infra-orbital nerve. The siqjra-maxillary branches advance over the masseter and facial artery, and run under the platysma and the depressor muscles of the lower lip, all of which they supply. Some of the filaments communicate with the mental branch of the inferior dental nerve. The infra-maxillary or cervical branches, one or more in number arch forwards below the jaw covered by the platysma, as low as the hyoid bone, and communicate with the superficial cervical (branch of "the cervical plexus). Sensory Nebves Tliese are the supra-orbital, the supra- and infra- OF THE Face. trochlear, the naso-lobular, the temporo-malar, the infra-orbital, and the mental, all branches of the fifth pair. The snpj'a-orhital nerve is the continuation of the frontal, which is a branch of the first division of the fifth pair. It leaves the orbit through the supra-orbital notch and ascends upon the fore- head, at first covered by the orbicularis and occipito-frontalis. It presently divides into two sets of branches—an out67', the larger, which passes backwards as far as the occipital bone, and an inner, which ascends as far as the parietal bone. It distributes sensory muscular branches also to the orbicularis palpebrarum, corrugator supercilii, the occipito-frontalis, to the pericranium and branches which supply the skin of the forehead, upper eyelid, and scalp. It communicates with the facial nerve on the forehead. The supra- •Orbital artery is a branch of the ophthalmic. The S'lqyra-trochlear n., or internal frontal, appears at the inner •angle of the orbit between the supra-orbital foramen and the pulley of the superior oblique, and sends down in front of the pulley a loop to communicate with the infra-trochlear branch of the nasal. The main trunk of the nerve ascends to the forehead. Its further course has been described (p. 5). The infra-trochlear n. issues from the orbit below the pulley, •and supplies branches to the eyelids, the conjunctiva, lachrymal sac, and the side of the nose. The infra^orhital nerve is the terminal branch of the superior