FACIAL NERVE IN THE TEMPORAL BONE. 2GO" Its h-anches of distribution are :— e. The tympanic branch. f. The chorda tympani. a. The communicating branches with the auditory are by several filaments, in the meatus auditorius internus. b. The large petrosal nerve joins the carotid branch from tha sympathetic to form the Vidian nerve, which joins the spheno- palatine ganglion (fig. 64, 3). c. The small superficial petrosal nerve passes along the anterior surface of the pars petrosa to join the otic ganglion below the fora- men ovale (fig. 64, 4). cl. The external superficial petrosal nerve passes from the gen- iculate ganglion to the sympathetic plexus around the middle meningeal artery (fig. 64, 5). e. The tympanic branch passes through a foramen in the base of the posterior pyramid to supply the stapedius and the laxator tympani^ (fig. 63, 4). /. The chorda tympani is given off from the facial nerve before its exit from the stylo-mastoid foramen.^ It ascends a short distance in a bony canal at the back of the tympanum, and enters that cavity through a small foramen—foramen chordae posterius— below and external to the pyramid, close to the membrana tympani. It runs forwards, ensheathed in mucous membrane, through the tympanum, between the handle of the malleus and the long pro- cess of the incus, to the anterior part of that cavity. It emerges through a small aperture—foramen chordee anterius—then traverses a special bony canal—canal of Huguier—and makes its exit close to the fissura Glaseri. It passes downwards and forwards between the two pterygoid muscles, behind the arteria meningea media, the auriculo-temporal and inferior dental nerves, to join, at an acute angle, the lower border of the gustatory nerve. It then proceeds in part to the submaxillary ganglion, and in part to the lingualis muscle. ' This is often not muscular, but ligamentous in structure. ^ In the fcetua, this nerve is given off outside the foramen, but subsequently the bone grows downwards so as to enclose more of the facial nerve, and with it the chorda tympani.