Ill SCALENE MUSCLES. careful not to injure tlie branches of tlie subclavian artery, the lymphatic duct on the right, and the thoracic duct on the left side^ the nerve to the subclavius m., the phrenic nerve, the cervical and the brachial plexuses of nerves, and their small branches. ScALEKE The scalene muscles, so called from their resem- MuscLEs, blance to a scalene triangle, extend from the trans- verse processes of the cervical vertebrae to the first and second ribs. They may be considered as intercostal muscles, since the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae are but rudimentary ribs. Anato- mists describe them as three separate muscles—an anterior, a middle, and a posterior ; the anterior and middle are attached to the first rib, the posterior to the second. In plan and purpose these three muscles are one. Scalenus The scalenus anticus is attached above to the Anticus. anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebrte, and below by a flat tendon to the tubercle on the inner border and upper surface of the first rib in the front of the groove for the subclavian artery. Scalenus The scalenus medius is attached above to the Medius. posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of all the cervical vertebra except the first, and below to the first rib behind the scalenus anticus, extending, from the tubercle, forwards for an inch and a half. Scalenus The scalenus posticus'is attached above to the Posticus. posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the two or three lowest cervical vertebras, and below to the second rib between its tubercle and angle, anterior to the levator costas,^ and behind the serratus magnus. The scaleni are supplied by branches derived from the lower cervical nerves. The scalene muscles are important agents in raising the thorax, in a deep inspiration. Take a deep breath, and you can easily feel them contracting. They can bend the cervical portion of the spine, if their lower attachment be the fixed point, as in rising from the recumbent position. The scalenus anticus is one of those muscles about which we ought to know well all that lies in front of it, and all that lies