347 BRANCHES OF THE EADIAL ARTERY. Thus, in the situation where the pulse is usually felt, the radial nerve no longer accompanies the artery; nevertheless, the vessel is accompanied by a branch of the musculo-cutaneous (or external cutaneous), which lies superficially to it. The radial artery sends off in the forearm the following branches, besides offsets, which supply the muscles on the outer side of the forearm^ a. The radial recurrent is given off just below the elbow ; it ascends upon the supinator brevis, between the. supinator longus and the bra- chialis anticus, to supply the long and short supinators and the two radial extensors. It runs up with the musculo-spiral nerve, and forms a delicate inosculation with the superior profunda (p. 333). b. The viuscular branches which are given off to the muscles on the outer side of the forearm. c. The arteria superjicialis volm arises from the radial, about half an inch, or more, above the lower end of the radius : it runs over the anterior annular ligament, above, or through, the origin of the muscles of the ball of the thumb, into the palm of the hand, where it sometimes inosculates with the superficial branch of the ubiar, and completes the superficial palmar arch.' d. The anterior carpal artery is a small branch of the radial, which arises close to the lower border of the pronator quadratus, and then runs beneath the tendons, and supplies the anterior surface of the synovial membrane and bones of the carpus, anastomosing with the anterior interosseous, the anterior carpal branch of the ulnar, and the recurrent carpal branch of the deep palmar arch. At the wrist it gives off— e. The posterior carpal artery, which runs beneath the extensor tendons, and joins the corresponding branch of the ulnar to form an arch; it also anastomoses with the anterior interosseous artery on the back of the wrist. ^ ^ The radial nerve, a branch of the musculo-spiral, is given off above the bend of the elbow, deep ' There is great variety in the size and origin of the superficialis volas; some- times it is very large, arises higher than usual, and runs to the wrist parallel with the radial; sometimes it is very small, terminating in the muscles of the thumb ; or it may be absent.