563 THE URETHRA. section of pelvic viscera from above (fig. 117). After tliis, clean off the peritoneum, and make out the pelvic fascia and its prolongations. To the description of the fascia already given in Pelvic Fascu. dissection of the male pelvis (p. 528) nothing need be added, except that from the side of the pelvis it is re- flected over the side of the vagina and the uterus, as well as the bladder. It is this fascia which in great measure supports the uterus in its proper level in the pelvis. When, from any cause, the fascia becomes relaxed, there is a liability to prolapsus uteri. Levator Am. For the description of this muscle, see p. 538. The female bladder is broader transversely, and, upon the whole, more capacious than the male. The vesical plexus of veins is not so large, and there are no vasa deferentia or prostate gland. The short urethra has a constrictor muscle, as in the male, and is supported in a similar manner by the pelvic fascia. Ygjjojjg Though the veins round the neck of the bladder Plexus about are comparatively small in the female, attention THE Vagina. should be directed to the plexus of large veins which surround the vagina. They communicate freely with the veins about the rectum, and empty themselves into the internal iUac. Their congestion in pregnancy sufficiently accounts for the dark colour of the vagina and the external organs, and the frequent occurrence of hasmorrhoidal tumours.^ These veins must be re- moved, with the connective tissue in which they are embedded, before a clear view of the parts can be obtained. ^ The urethra has already been described (p. 528). But, in the side view of the parts, we have the opportunity of observing how closely the bladder and urethra are connected to the upper wall of the vagina ; and we can understand how, in cases of protracted delivery, it sometimes happens that the contiguous coats of the bladder and the vagina give way, and that ' During pregnancy, varicose tumours may form even in the vagina. In the Berlin Med. Zeitung, 1840, No 11, a case is related of a woman who, at the sixth month, bled to death from the bursting of a large vein in the vagina. Other cases of the kind are related by Siebold.