673 BACK OF THE LEG. tlie tuberosity of the os calcis. On the inner and outer sides of the lower part of this tendon there is ti well-defined vertical groove; bounded laterally by the tibia and fibula. In cases of synovial disease of the.ankle-joint these grooves are lost, so that instead of a depression there is a^ convexity. In these grooves can be felt the tendons passing round the ankle behind the malleoli; on the inner side ax'e the tibialis posticus, flexor longus digitorum, and flexor lougus hallucis ; on the outer side are the peronei longus and brevis. Continue the incision down the centre of the calf to the heel, Avhere a transverse incision must also be made. The skin should now be reflected, taking care of the subcutaneous veins and nerves. Short ok The large vein seen in the middle of the back Posterior of the leg is called the short or posterior saphena. &APHENA Vein jj^ commences on the outer side of the dorsum of the foot, ascends behind the outer ankle, where it has a communi- cation with the deep veins, and then runs up the calf between the two bellies of the gastrocnemius, receiving numerous veins in its course, and being guarded by several valves. It eventually passes through the muscular fascia, and joins the popliteal vein. CuT.ts-Eous The back of the leg is supplied by cutaneous Nerves. nerves : in the middle, above, by the smaU sciatic nerve, and below, by the short or external saphenous; on the outer side, by the communicans peronei; and on the inner side, by branches from the internal saphenous nerve. Short or The short saphenous nerve ^ is derived from ExTER\.\i, the internal popliteal nerve (fig. 155), and passes Saphenous Nerve, ^q^^jx beneath the deep fascia between the two heads of the gastrocnemius to the middle of the calf, where it pierces the fascia. Here it is joined by a branch from the peroneal nerve (communicans peronei); it then descends with the short saphena vein, usually on its fibular side, and is finally distributed to the outer side of the foot and the little toe. ' This nerve is sometimes called the communicans poplitai, and does not take the name of short saphenous nerve till its junction with the comimmicans permci <p. 6G6). X X