COURSE OF THE POSTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY. 681 halliicis. Each of the tendons is lined by a separate synovial membrane, as they pass behind the inner ankle. This artery is one of the branches into which COCKSE AKD • _ Eel\tions of the popliteal divides at the lower border of the THE PosTERioE popllteus. It descends between the superficial and Tibial Abteky. ^-^^ ^ggp muscles at the back of the leg to the interval between the internal malleolus and the os calcis, and, entering the sole, divides beneath the abductor hallucis into the external and internal plantar arteries. It lies, first, for a short distance, itpon the tibialis posticus, then, on the flexor longus dis'itorum; but behind the anlde it is in contact with the tibia, so that here it can be felt beating, and effectually compressed; and lastly on the back of the ankle-joint. In the upper part of its course, it runs nearly midway between the bones, and is covered by the gastrocnemius and soleus, and is crossed obliquely from within outwards by the posterior tibial nerve. To tie the artery, there- fore, in this situation, is difiicult; but in the lower part of its course it gradually approaches the inner border of the tibia, from which, generally speaking, it is not more than half or three-quarters of an inch distant. Here, being comparatively superficial, it may easily be tied. Immediately behind the internal malleolus, it lies between the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum on the inner side, and the flexor longus hallucis on the outer. It has two veuse comites, which communicate at intervals. The posterior tibial nerve which accom- panies the artery is at its upper third on its inner side, then crosses over it, and for the lower two-thirds of its course lies exteroial to the artery. Its branches are as follows :— ft. Numerous muscular branches to the soleus, the peronei, and the deep muscles. b. The 2^sroneal is a branch of considerable size—often as large as the posterior tibial. Arising about an inch below the division of the popliteal, it descends close to tlie interosseous border of the fibula, and then over the articulation between the tibia and fibula to the outer part of the OS calcis, where it inosculates with the malleolar and plantar arteries. All down the leg it is imbedded among the muscles—being- covered : first, by the soleus, afterwards, by the flexor longus hallucis, by the fibres of whicli it is more or less surrounded. To ))oth these