278 MUSCLES OF THE BACK. DISSECTION OF THE MUSCLES OF THE BACK. Dissection to Those muscles of the back—namely, the tra- ExposE THE Thibd pezlus, latlssimus dorsi, levator anguli scapulge, Layer op and rhomboidei—which are concerned in the Muscles. movements of the upper extremity, will be ex- amined in the dissection of the arm. These must be reflected near to their insertions, together with the cutaneous vessels and nerves. We now proceed to examine the three muscles forming the third layer of muscles, named, from their appearance, serrati fostici, superior and inferior, and the spleniiis. The nerves and arteries wiU be described after the dissection of the suboccipital triangle. ■ Seheatus Pos- This muscle is situated beneath the rhomboidei. TicDs SuPERiou. It is a thin flat muscle, and arises from the lower part of the ligamentum nuchas,' from the spinous processes of the last cervical, and two or three upper dorsal vertebras, by a sheet- like aponeurosis which makes up nearly h-alf the muscle; the fibres run obliquely downwards and outwards, and are inserted by four fleshy slips into the second, third, fourth, and fifth ribs beyond their angles. Its action is to- raise these ribs, and therefore to assist in inspiration. Sebeatus Pos- This muscle is situated in the upper lumbar TIC0S Infeeiob. region, beneath the latissimus dorsi. It arises, by means of the lumbar aponeurosis, from the spinous processes of the two last dorsal and two upper lumbar vertebrte and their supra-spinous ligament. It ascends obliquely outwards, and is inserted hj four fleshy slips into the four lower ribs, external to their angles. Its action is to pull down these ribs, and therefore to assist in expiration. The posterior serrati muscles are supplied, ' The ligamentum nuohfe is a rudiment of the great elastic ligament of quadru- peds (termed the pack-ioax) which supports the weight of the head. It proceeds from the spine of the occiput to the spines of all the cervical vertebriB except the atlas ; otherwise it would interfere with the free rotation of the head.