740 CONVOLUTIONS OF THE CERKHllUM. tbe fissui'e of Sylvius and its horizontal ramus, and forms that part of the hemisphere which occupies the middle cerebral fossa. The convolutions of this lobe are three :— The mperior temporo-sijhenoidal (fig. 178, i,) is bounded above by the horizontal ramus of the Sylvian fissure, and below by the parallel fissure; it is continuous behind with supra-marginal and angular gyri. The middle temporo-siilienoidal is joined behind to the angular gyrus and to the middle occipital convolution through the third annectent gyrus; the inferior is connected with the inferior occipital convolution through the fourth annectent gyrus. There are three fissures running from before backwards, the superior temporo-splienoidal or parallel, the middle, and the inferior. The convolutions and fissures of the median and tentorial surfaces can only be properly examined by making an antero- posterior vertical section of the brain through the longitudinal fissure. As this would spoil the brain for future demonstration, the student is recommended to examine one in which this section has been already done. The fissures to be examined on this surface are the calloso- marginal, the internal parieto-occipital, the calcarine, the collateral, and the hippocampal or dentate. The convolutions are the pra3cuneus, the cuneate, the uncinate, the marginal, the gyrus fornicatus, and the dentate. The calloso-moA-ginal fissure commences beneath the rostrum of the corpus callosum, curves in front and round the genu, and then runs nearly parallel with the anterior two-thirds of the corpus callosum ; then, changing its direction, it ascends obliquely and terminates on the external aspect of the hemisphere, where it forms a deep notch immediately behind the fissure of Rolando. The internal parieto-occipital fissure passes nearly vertically downwards, and joins the calcarine fissure at an acute angle. The calcarine fissure begins close to the posterior border of the cerebrum, and then, running nearly horizontally forwards, is joined by the preceding fissure; it terminates a little below the posterior border of the corpus callosum. It corresponds with the hippo- campus minor in the posterior horn of the lateral ventricle. The collateral fissure (fig. 178, 01 f.) is situated below the