THE PERICARDIUM. 1G9 running down between tliem. In front of it, is the anterior media- stinum ; behind it, is the posterior. Of the objects in the poste- rior mediastinum, that which is nearest to the pericardium is the oesophagus and the left pneumogastric nerve. It should be re- membered that the oesophagus is in close contact with the back of the pericardium and left auricle for nearly two inches; this fact ac- counts for what is sometimes observed in cases of pericarditis where there is much eflPasion: namely, pain and diffictilty in swallowing. The pericardium is a fibro-serous membrane, and consists of two layers—an external or fibrous, and an internal or serous. Its fibrous layer, a dense membrane, constitutes its chief strength, and is attached, below, to the central tendon and the adjoining muscular part of the diaphragm. Above, it forms eight tubular sheaths for the great vessels at the base of the heart; namely, one for the vena cava superior, four for the pulmonary veins, two for the pulmonary arteries, and one for the aorta. The serous layer forms a shut sac. Its parietal layer lines the fibrous layer to which it is intimately attached, and is reflected over the great vessels and the heart to form its visceral layer. To see where the serous layer is reflected over the vessels, distend the pericardium with air. Thus you will find that this layer is reflected over the aorta as high as the com- mencement of the transverse portion of the arch of the aorta. It is reflected over the front and sides of the vena cava superior. The serous layer of the pericardium covers the large vessels to an extent greater than is generally imagined; though the extent is not precisely similar in all bodies. The aorta and pulmonary artery are enclosed in a complete sheath, two inches in leng-th, so that these vessels are covered all round by the serous layer, except where they are in contact. Indeed you can pass your finger behind them both, through a foramen bounded, in front, by the two great vessels themselves; behind, by the upper part of the auricles ; and above, by the right pulmonary artery. Again, the back of the aorta, where it lies on the auricles, is covered by the serous pericardium. The superior cava is covered all round, except behind, whore it crosses the right pulmonary artery. The inferior cava within the pericardium is partly covered in front. The left pulmonary veins are covered nearly all round; the right less so. Behind the