434. NERVES OF THE ABDOMINAL WALL. Nkbves op the These nerves are the anterior divisions of the Abdominal Wall, gix lower intercostal nerves, and of the first lum- bar. They have the same general course and distribution, and are accompanied by small arteries derived from the intercostal and first lumbar arteries. The intercostal or aMominal nerves come forward beneath the anterior extremities of the intercostal spaces, and then run between the internal oblique and transversalis, towards the edge of the rectus, which they enter, small twigs coming through it at the middle line to supply the skin. Bach gives off a lateral cutaneous branch, which perforates the external intercostal and external oblique muscles, and divides, into an anterior branch—distributed to the skin and superficial fascia as far as the rectus, and into a posterior branch, smaller than the anterior, which supplies the skin over the latissimus dorsi. The last dorsal nerve, larger than the other intercostals, is continued forwards beneath the last rib, lying on the quadratus lumborum, and then piercing the transversalis aponeurosis, runs between this muscle and the internal oblique, and is finally distri- buted like the preceding nerves. Its lateral cutaneous branch is very large, and descends over the crest of the ilium. ~ The ilio-hypogastric nerve, a branch of the first lumbar, emerges from the outer border of the psoas, and then runs obliquely across the quadratus lumborum as far as the iliac crest, where it per- forates the transversalis muscle and divides into an iliac and an hypogastric branch (p. 424). The ilio-inguinal nerve, smaller than the former, and like it a branch of the first lumbar, runs along the iliac crest after piercing the psoas, and is here connected with the Uio-hypogastric. It comes through the transversalis near the front of the Uium, and, after piercing the internal oblique, runs in front of the cord in the ino'uinal canal. Its cutaneous distribution has been described (p? 424). The transversalis muscle must now be reflected Dissection. ^^-^ rectus by incisions similar to those for the reflection of the external oblique, when a thin delicate fascia behind, the fascia transversalis, wiU be exposed. The dissection