THE DELTOID. 37^ muscle; others perforate tlie muscle, each accompanied by a small artery. Notice the strong layer of fascia upon the surface of the deltoid, iv^hich extends from the aponeurosis covering the muscles on the -back of the scapula, and is continuous with the fascia of the arm. It dips down between the fibres of the muscle, dividing it into aarge bundles. This fascia is to be removed, by putting the deltoid >Dn the stretch, and reflecting it in the direction of its fibres, begin- ■ainof from the front. The fascia wUl be seen to be continuous in rTont with the fascia covering the pectoralis major: above, it is attached to the clavicle and spine of the scapula; behind, it is 'tjontinuoiis with that over the infraspinatus. The large muscle which covers the shoulder- joint is named deltoid, from its resemblance to the 'o-reek A reversed. It arises from the external third of the anterior •oorder of the clavicle, from the apex and outer border of the acro- mion, and from the lower border of the spine of the scapu.la down ;o the triangular surface at its root. This origin, which corresponds .0 the insertion of the trapezius, is tendinous and fleshy everywhere, 'ixcept at the commencement of the spine of the scapula, where it ;s simply tendinous, and connected with the infraspinous aponeii- fosis. The muscular fibres descend, the anterior backwards, the posterior forwards, the middle perpendicularly; all converge to a - endon which is inserted into a rough surface on the outer side of ! he humerus, a little above the middle of the shaft. The insertion tif the tendon extends one inch and a half along the humerus, and ^e^minates in a V-shaped form, the origin of the brachialis anticus : mbracing it on either side. Sometimes a few fibres of the pecto- '•alis major are connected with its front border. The muscular bundles composing the deltoid have a peculiar ■irrangement: a peculiarity arising from its broad origin and its larrow insertion. It consists in the interposition of tendons between the bundles for the attachment of the muscular fibres. L'he annexed woodcut shows this arrangement better than any lescription. The action of the muscle is not only concentrated ipon one point, but its power is also greatly increased by this -rrangement.