DISSECTION OF THE GLUTEAL REGION. 653 below its head, and, piercing the origin of the peroneus longus, divides into two main branches—the anterior tibial and the mus- culo-cutaneous nerves. It gives off several branches as follows :— 1. Articular branches, two in number to the knee-joint, which pass in mth the external articular arteries, and a third which accompanies the tibial recurrent artery. 2. Cutaneous branches, two or more, supply the skin on the back and outer aspect of the leg, and one, the communicans ]oeronei, which joins the external saphenous to supply the dftrsal aspect of the outer side of the little toe : this will be seen later on in the dissection of the back of the leg. 3. The anterior tibial, which accompanies the corresponding artery and supplies the muscles between which it runs—namely, the tibialis anticus, extensor longus digitorum, extensor proprivis hallucis, and peroneus tertius; also the extensor brevis digitorum. 4. The mnsculo-Gutaneous (p. 645), which comes through the fascia between the peroneus longus and the extensor longus digitorum. 5. Branches, which supply the peronei, longus and brevis, muscles. K, then, the peroneal nerve were divided in the popliteal space, the result would be paralysis of the tibialis anticus, the extensors of the toes, long and short, and all the peronei. DISSECTION OF THE GLUTEAL EEGION. The body having been placed on its face, the pelvis is to be raised to such a height by blocks beneath it, that the lower ex- tremities hang down over the end of the table. Then rotate the thighs inwards as much as possible, and cross them. Scui-ACE The bony prominences are very marked and Mabking. prominent: they are, on the outer side, the great trochanter, and, on the inner, the posterior superior spine of the ilium, the spines of the sacral vertebra, which are continued on to the coccyx. Between the latter bone and the great trochanter is the rounded tuberosity of the ischium, which in the erect position is covered by the gluteus maximus, but is uncovered by it when the femur is flexed. Notice a transverse curved fold of the skin extendins-