SCAPULO-CLAVICULAR JOINT. 403 The joint is provided with two st/novial membranes: one between the articular surface of the sternum and the inner surface of the fibro-cartilage; the other between the articular surface of the clavicle and the outer surface of the fibro-cartilage. This interarticular fibro-cartilage is a structure highly elastic, without admitting of any stretching. It equalises pressure, breaks shocks, and also acts as a ligament, tending to prevent the clavicle from being driven inwards towards the mesial line. Observe the relative form of the cartilaginous surfaces of the bones: that of the sternum is slightly concave in the transverse, and convex in the antero-posterior direction; that of the clavicle is the reverse. The form of the articular surfaces and the ligaments of a joint being known, it is easy to understand the movements of which it is capable. The clavicle can be moved upon the sternum in a direction either upwards, downwards, backwards, and forwards ; it also admits of circumduction. These movements, though limited at the sternum, are considerable at the apex of the shoulder.^ ScAPTjLo- outer end of the clavicle articulates with CLAVICULAR the acromlou, and is connected by strong liga- Joi^- ments to the coracoid process of the scapula. The clavicle and the acromion articulate with each other by two flat oval cartilaginous surfaces, of which the planes slant inwards, and the longer diameters are in the antero-posterior direction. It is an arthrodial joint. The superior acromio-clavicular ligament, a broad band of par- allel ligamentous fibres, strengthened by the aponeurosis of the ' Professor Humphry, in describing the movements of this joint, in his valuable •work ' On the Human Skeleton,' says, ' The movements attendant on elevation and depression of the shoulder take place between the clavicle and the interarticular ligament, the bone rotating upon the ligament on an axis drawn from before back- wards through its own articular facet. When the shoulder is moved forwards and backwards, the clavicle, with the interarticular ligament, rolls to and fro on the articular surface of the sternum, revolving, with a slightly sliding movement, round an axis drawn nearly vertically through the sternum. In the circumduction of the shoulder, which is compounded of these two movements, the clavicle revolves upon the interarticular cartilage, and the latter, with the .clavicle, rolls upon the sternum.' i> n 2