FUNCTION OF THE DUPHRAGM. 480 and tlie pneumogastric nerves. The oiienimj for the vena cava {foramen quadratum) is situated in the highest part of the central tendon, rather to the right of the middle line, and is quadrate in shape. Through this opening pass the inferior vena cava, some lymphatics from the convex surface of tho liver, and usually a branch from the right phrenic nerve. Observe that the vein is intimately connected to its margin, and kept permanently open. Lastly, there pass through the crus, on each side, the sympathetic and the greater and lesser splanchnic nerves; and in addition, on the left side, the vena azygos minor. The arch of the diaphragm, in expiration, extends about as high as the fifth rib on the right side, and the sixth rib on the left. The nerves of the diaphragm are the phrenic (p. 180), and the five or six lower intercostal nerves. The diaphragm also receives minute filaments from the diaphragmatic plexuses, which come from the semilunar ganglia. On its under surface, on the right side, close to the supra-renal capsule, the plexus joins some branches of the right phrenic nerve, at which spot there is a small ganglion {(jaiiglion cliaphrarjmiiticum), from which filaments are given off to the liver, vena cava, and supra-renal capsule. It is absent on the left side. Its blood-vessels are the two phrenic, derived from the aorta, the internal mammary (p. 159), and the lower intercostal. Function op The diaphragm is the great muscle concerned THE Dlu-heaqji. in inspiration. It may be said with Haller, that it is ' musculus post cor nobilissimus.' During inspiration the miiscular sides of the diaphragm contract, and become less arched (as shown by the dotted line in fig. 113); the floor of the chest sinks in consequence, and more room is made for the expansion of the lungs. During expiration. the diaphragm relaxes, and the air is expelled, partly by the elasticity of the lungs and the thoracic walls, partly by muscular action. This alternate sinking and rising of the diaphragm constitutes a chief part of the mechanism of breath- ing. But the diaphragm conduces to the performance of many other functions. Acting in concert with the abdominal muscles, it assists in the expulsion of the f^ces and the urine, also in partu- rition and in vomiting: for in all these operations we first take in a deep breath, that the diaphragm may be in a state of contraction,