776 THE CEREBELLUM. commissura simjjlex. The hemispheres are separated posteriorly by a deep notch, the incisura cerehelli posterior^ which receives the falx cerebelli; and anteriorly by a broader notch, the incisura cerehelli anterior^ which lodges the pons Varolii. On this surface of the cerebellum are two lobes, one of which, the quadrate, is situated on its external and anterior aspect; the other, the posterior or cres- centic, is placed along its posterior border. On the under surface of the cerebellum, its divi- Under Sdeface. . • , , T -1 -11 , , sion into two hemispheres is clearly perceptible. The deep furrow between them is called the vallecula. The front part of it is occupied by the medulla oblongata. To examine the surface of the valley, the medulla must be raised, and the hemi- spheres separated from each other. Along the middle line of the vallecula is the inferior vermifoi'm process, which is the under surface of the original part of the cerebelkim. Traced forwards, this process terminates in the nodule, which projects into the fourth ventricle, and is called the laminated tubercle of Malacarne ; traced backwards, it ends in a small conical projection, called the pyramid; between these is a tongue-like body, called the uvxda, which is con- nected with the adjacent amygdalte by an indented grey ridge, named the furroived hand. I'assing from the nodule to the flocculus is a thin valve-like fold of white matter, which together take the name of the posterior or inferior medullary vehim. Its anterior crescentic margin is free, and its posterior is attached to the furrowed baud.^ To see this satisfactorily, the tonsils must be carefully separated from each other. Each hemisphere presents on its under surface certain secondary lobes, to which different names have been applied (fig. 192). That portion which immediately overlies the side of the vallecula is called the tonsil (amygdala); this is connected with the uvula by an indented layer of grey matter, called the furrowed band. At the anterior part of each hemisphere, near the middle line, is a little lobe named the fiocculus or suhpeduncidar lohe. In addition to the araygdalge and flocculi, already mentioned, other lobes have been described on the under surface of the cere- bellum. Thus, there is the digastric lobe, situated external to the ' These are sometimes called the val/aes of Tarini.