80 PARTS BENEATH THE STERNO-MASTOID. tlie sterno-thyroid. It is supplied by a special branch of the hypo- glossal nerve which enters the muscle close by its posterior border, in company with the hyoid branch of the lingual artery. In front of the muscle, are the omo-hyoid and sterno-hyoid muscles, and it covers the thyro-hyoid membrane, the thyroid cartilage, and the superior laryngeal vessels and nerve as they enter the larynx. Action of the The sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, omo-hyoid, Depressor and thyro-hyoid muscles co-operate in fixing the Muscles. larynx and os hyoides, e.g., in sucking, or thej^ depress the larynx after it has been raised in deglutition. Again, they depress it in the utterance of low notes. That the larynx is raised or depressed, according to the height of the note, may be ascertained by placing the finger on it while singing through an octave. The omo-hyoid, in addition, is a tensor of the cervical fascia, and draws down the hyoid bone to its own side. The thyro- hyoid depresses the hyoid bone, or elevates the thyroid cartilage, according as the one or the other is the fixed point. The sterno-mastoid muscle must now be cut Dissection. transversely through the middle, and the two ends turned upwards and downwards, so that they may be replaced if necessary. This done, notice the strong layer of fascia which lies under the muscle and forms part of its sheath. It is attached to the angle of the jaw, thence descends over the large vessels of the neck, and is firmly connected to the clavicle and first rib. This fascia prevents matter coming to the surface, when suppuration takes place by the side of the pharynx. Eemove the fascia, and clean the various structures beneath the sterno-mastoid, taking care not to cut away the descendens noni and communicantes noni nerves, which lie in front of the sheath of the common carotid. Dissect out the lymphatic glands which lie along the sheath of the large vessels. Parts exposed objects exposed to view, when the muscle is BENEATH THE reflected, are very numerous. Among these the Stbbno-mastoid. more important are : the sterno-clavicular • articu- lation, the splenius capitis and colli, the posterior beUy of the di- o-astricus, the levator anguli scapulee, scalenus medius and anticus, omo-hyoidj sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid muscles ; the occipital