34 MUSCLES OF THE NOSE. microscope, each is seen to consist of a straight central tube, round the sides of which are a number of openings leading to short cascal dilatations. The orifices of these glands are situated on the free margin of the lids behind the lashes. They are lined with flattened epithelial cells which, in the cascal dilatations and ducts, become cvibical and filled with fat. Their function is to secrete a sebaceous material, which prevents the lids from sticking together. Tens b Taesi ^^^^ muscle is only a deeper part of the orbicu- laris palpebrarum, and lies just behind the tendo palpebrarum. To expose it, cut perpendicularly through the middle of the upper and lower lids, and turn the inner halves toward the nose. After removing the mucous membrane, the muscle will be seen arising from the ridge of the lachrymal bone. It passes nearly horizontally outwards, for about three lines, and then divides into two portions, which are inserted into the upper and lower tarsal cartilages, close to the orifices of the lachrymal ducts. It is pro- bable that the tensor tarsi draws backwards the open mouths of the ducts, so that they may receive the tears at the inner angle of the eye. It is supplied by a small branch from the facial nerve. Let us now examine the muscles in connection with the nose: namely—the pyramidalis nasi, the compressor naris, the depressor alse nasi, and the smaller intrinsic muscles of the nose. All are supplied by the facial nerve. PiRAMroALis This is situated on the bridge of the nose, one Nasi. on each side of the mesial line, and is usually regarded as a continuation of the inner part of the occipito-frontalis (p. 26). The two muscles diverge as they descend, and their fibres blend with those of the compressor naris. Their action produces transverse wrinkles of the skin at the root of the nose, as in the expression of an aggressive feeling.. Compressor This muscle is triangular, and arises by its Naris. apex from the inner side of the canine fossa of the superior maxilla, and is attached to a broad thin aponeurosis which spreads over the dorsum of the nose, and joins its fellow. The origin of this muscle is concealed by the levator labii superioris alasque nasi. When this muscle is reflected from its junction with its fellow,