765 VELUM INTERPOSITUM. It consists of white matter externally, and corresponds to the calcarine fissure. Between the hippocampus major and minor is a triangular smooth surface, called the pes accessorius, or eminentia coUateralis, and is found in the posterior and the descending horns. This corresponds to the collateral fissure. Velum Inter- The velum interposUum, which supports the posiTUM AND fornix, should now be examined. This is a layer Choroid Plexus. Qf mater, which penetrates into the ventricles through the transverse fissure, beneath the posterior border of the corpus caDosum, as shown in fig. 184. The shape of this vascular membrane is like that of the fornix, and its borders project beneath that body and form the red convoluted fringes called the choroid Ijlexuses. These plexuses consist almost entirely of tortuous rami- fications of minute blood-vessels, and are covered with vascular villi. The villi themselves are covered with large spheroidal epithelial cells. In front the plexuses communicate with each other through the foramen of Monro ; behind, they descend into the middle horns of the lateral ventricles, and become continuous with the pia mater at the base of the brain. From the under surface of the velum two small vascular processes are prolonged into the third ventricle, forming the choroid plexuses of that cavity. Q ^ Along the centre of the velum run two large veins, called vence Galeni, which return the blood from the ventricles into the straight sinus. The velum interpositum, with the choroid plexuses, must now be removed to expose the following structures shown in diagram (p. 768) :—1. A full view of the optic thalamus. 2. Between the optic thalami is the third ventricle, a deep vertical fissure, situated in the middle line. 3. Behind the fissure is the pineal body, a ' vascular structure, about the size of a pea. From this body may be traced forwards two slender white cords, called its peduncles, or strice pinecdes—one along the inner side of each optic thalamus. 4. Passing transversely across the third ventricle are three com- missures—anterior, middle, and posterior, connecting the opposite s sides of the brain. 5. Immediately behind the pineal body are ffour elevations, two on each side, called the corpora quadrigemina, car nates and testes. 6. These bodies are connected with the cei'e-