THE ANNULAR LIGAMENTS. is attached to the head of the tibia and the fibula: it is connected on the inner side with the expanded tendons of the sartorius, .gracilis, and semi-tendinosus; on the outer side with that of the biceps: consequently, when these muscles act, it is rendered tense. Following it down the leg, you find that it is attached to the edge ■of the tibia, and that it becomes stronger as it approaches the ankle, to form the ligaments which confine the tendons in this •situation. Of these ligaments, called annular, there are three, as follows:— a. The anterior annular ligament extends obliquely across the front of the ankle-joint, and confines the extensor tendons of the ankle and toes. It consists of two converging straps—one oblique, the other horizontal, which join, and are continued on as a common band, like the letter kJ placed transversely: the upper or oblique binds down the tendons in front of the lower end of the tibia; the lower or oblique the tendons which lie over the tarsus. The common band is attached to the external malleolus, cuboid, and os calcis; it is continued horizontally inwards for a short distance, and in front of the ankle splits into two fasciculi: the upper or oblique ascends to be attached to the tibia ; the lower or horizontal jjasses inwards to be attached to the internal malleolus, the scaphoid, and the internal cuneiform. Beneath the upper fasciculus, enclosed in two synovial sheaths, run the tibialis anticus on the inner side, and the extensor longus digitorum and peroneus tertius on the ■outer side; the extensor proprius hallucis and the anterior tibial vessels lying behind the ligament, but not having any synovial sheath. Beneath the lower fasciculus are three synovial sheaths— an inner one for the tibialis anticus, a middle one for the extensor proprius hallucis, and an outer one for the extensor longus digi- torum and peroneus tertius. It is the strain of this ligament whicli ■occasions the pain in sprains of the ankle. h. The external annular ligament extends from the outer malleolus to the os calcis, and confines the tendons of the perouei muscles, which are enclosed in a common synovial sheath. c. The internal annular ligament is a strong fasciculus of ill- defined fibrous tissue which extends from the inner malleolus to the OS calcis, where it becomes continuous with the plantar fascia