220 STRUCTURE OF THE LUNGS. and nearer the posterior than the anterior border, is the root, where the large vessels and bronchi pass to and from the lungs. Each lung is traversed on its external surface by an oblique fissure which passes deeply into its interior. It extends from the upper part of the posterior border, downwards and forwards to the anterior border, and on the right side there is a second fissure passing, forwards and upwards from the oblique fissure, to the middle of the anterior margin. The left lung presents a deep notch in the anterior border in which the pericardium is seen as far as the apex of the heart. CoNTEACTiBi- Wheu au opening is made into the chest, the LiTY OF THE l^ug, which was in contact with the ribs, imme- diately recedes from them, and, provided there be no adhesions, gradually contracts. If the lungs be artificially inflated, either in or out of the chest, we observe that they sponta- neously expel a part of the air. This disposition to contract, in the living and the dead lung, is due to the elastic tissue in the bronchial tubes and the air-cells; but more especially to a layer of delicate elastic tissue on the surface of the lung, which has been described by some anatomists as a distinct coat, under the name of the second or inner layer of the pleura.' The lungs are of a livid red or violet colour; they often present a mixture of tints, giving them a marble-like appearance. This is not the natural colour of the organ, since it is produced in the act of dying. It depends upon the stagnation of the venous blood, which the right ventricle stUl propels into the lungs, though respiration is failing. The tint varies in particular situations in proportion to the amount of blood, and is always deepest at the back of the lung. But the colour of the proper tissue of the lung, apart from the blood which it con- tains, is pale and light grey. This colour is seldom seen except in the lungs of infants who have never breathed, or after death from profuse hfemorrhage. Upon or near the surface of the lungs, numerous dark spots are observed which do not depend upon the blood, since they are ' In some animals, the seal especially, the elasticity of this tissue is very strongly marked.