818 MEATUS AUDITORIUS EXTERNUS. (e) The transversus auriculce is on the cranial aspect of the pinna; it passes nearly transversely from the back of the concha to the prominence corresponding to the fossa of the helix. (/) The ohliqwus aitris extends vertically from the cranial aspect of the concha to the convexity below it. The arteries of the pinna are derived from the posterior auri- cular, and from the auricular branches of the temporal and occipital. The veins empty themselves into the temporal vein. The nerves are furnished by the great auricular branch of the superficial cervical plexus, the auriculo-temporal branch of the inferior maxil- lary, the posterior auricular branch of the facial, and the auricular branch of the pneumogastric. Meatus Audi- This oval passage leads down to the membrana TOEius ExTBENus. tympaui, and conveys the vibrations of sound to the tympanum. It is about an inch and a quarter in length; its external opening is longest in its vertical direction : its termination is broadest in its transverse. The canal inclines at first upwards and forwards, and then curves a little downwards.' Its floor, owing to the oblique direction of the membrana tympani, is a little longer than the roof. It is not of equal calibre throughout, the narrowest part being about the middle; hence the difficulty of extracting foreign bodies which have passed to the bottom of the canal. It is formed, partly by a tubular continuation of the car- tilage of the pinna, partly by an osseous canal in the temporal bone. The cartilaginous portion is about half an inch long, and is firmly connected to the osseous portion. The cartilage is incom- plete at the upper and back part, and the interval is filled in with fibrous tissue. The osseous portion, about three-quarters of an inch in length, is narrower than the cartilaginous portion, and is curved forwards and inwards. Its outer extremity is rough for the attachment of the cartilage; its inner presents a narrow groove, except at the upper part, for the insertion of the membrana tympani. The ' To obtain a correct knowledge of the length and dimensions of the meatus, sections should be made through it in different directions, or a cast be taken of it in plaster-of-Paris.