TYMPANUM. 824 tendon, emerging through the aperture in the apex, runs forwards to be inserted into the neck of the stapes.' Its nerve is derived from the facial. By its action it increases the tension upon the fluid in the vestibule. The mucous membrane of the tymj)anum is continuous with that of the pharynx. It covers the ossicles, muscles, and nerves, and is prolonged into the mastoid cells. The membrane is pale and thin, and lined with columnar ciliated epithelium, except on the pro- montory, the membrana tympani, and the ossicles, where there is only a single layer of flattened cells. A branch (chorda tympani) of the facial nerve enters the tym- panum through a foramen, foramen chordce iJosterius, at the base of the pyi'amid; it then crosses the tympanum beneath the handle of the malleus and the long process of the incus, leaves the tympanum through a foramen, foramen cliordm anterius, and then traverses a canal (canal of Huguier), which runs close to the Glaserian fissure. It eventually joins the submaxillary ganglion (p. 141). The arteries supplying the tymiianiim are: (1) the ti/mimnic branch of the internal maxillary, which enters through the fissura Glaseri; (2) the stylo-mastoid branch of the posterior auricular; (3) small branches from the ascending pharyngeal, which enter with the Eustachian tube; (4) branches from the interna Icarotid artery; and (5) the petrosal branch of the arteria meningea media. The veins open into the middle meningeal and the pharyngeal veins. The mucous membrane is supplied with branches from the tympanic plexus, which is formed by filaments from the tympanic branch of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, from the carotid sympathetic plexus, and from the large and small superficial petrosal nerves. This, in consequence of its complexity, is called Inteenal Eae. ^j^^ labyrinth. It consists of cavities excavated in the most compact part of the temporal bone, and it is divided into three parts : a middle one, called the vestibide, being the common cavity in which all communicate; an anterior, named, from its resemblance to a snail's shell, the cochlea; and a posterior, ' There is a little sheath, lined with synovial membrane, to facilitate the play of the tendon in the pyramid.