THE UTERUS. 566 ligaments, and measures about three inches in length, two in its broadest part, and one inch thick in its upper part, and weighs from an ounce to an ounce and a half; but there is a variety in tliis respect, arising from age, the effect of pregnancy, and other causes. For convenience of description the uterus is divided into the fundus, the body, and the cervix. The fundus is applied to the broadest part, which lies above the level of the Fallopian tubes, and is completely invested by peritoneum. The body is the central part, and gradually narrows down to the cervix. Its lateral margins a^e nearly straight, and give attach- ment, respectively from above downwards, to the Fallopian tube, the round ligament, the ligament of the ovary, and the broad ligament; its anterior surface is flat, and for full three-fourths of its extent is covered with peritoneum ; its posterior surface is convex, and is entirely invested with peritoneum. The cervix is the lower narrow part which projects into the vagina. The vagina is very closely attached round the neck of the uterus; observe that it is attached higher up behind than in front. At the free end of the cervix there is a transverse slit, the os uteri, bounded in front by the anterior lip, behind by the posterior lip. Postponing for the present the examination of the interior of the vagina and the uterus, let us pass on to the vessels and nerves of these organs. Uterine and The uterus is supplied by the uterine arteries Vaginal Arteries, derived from the internal iliac, and also by the ovarian arteries ; the vagina by the vaginal arteries from the same source ; and the ovaries by the ovarian arteries (which correspond to the spermatic arteries in the male) given off from the abdominal aorta just below the renal arteries. The uterine artery proceeds from the anterior division of the internal iliac, towards the neck of the uterus, between the layers of the broad ligament, and then ascends tortuously by the side of the uterus, giving off numerous branches to it, which anastomose freely with each other, and with a small branch from the ovarian artery. The fundus of the uterus is mainly su^Dplied with branches from the ovarian arteries.