716 SUBARACHNOID SPACES. tenuity, and its close adhesion to the pia mater, the two membranes cannot be readily separated ; but there are places, especially at the base of the brain, termed suharachnoicl spaces, where the arachnoid membrane can be seen distinct from the subjacent pia mater. The two membranes can be artificially separated by blowing air beneath tlie arachnoid with a blow-pipe. SUB.UIACHNOID ' WhorevBr the arachnoid membrane is separated Spaces .^b Fluid, from the pia mater, a serous fluid {cerebrospinal) intervenes, contained in the meshes of a very delicate areolar tissue. The spaces between tbese membranes are termed subarachnoid, and are very manifest in some places. For instance, there is one well- mai'ked space in the longitudinal fissure, where the arachnoid does not descend to the bottom, but passes across the edge of the falx cerebri, a little above the corpus callosum. At the base of the brain, there are two of considerable size : one, the anterior sith- arachnoicl space, is situated between the anterior border of the pons Varolii, the middle, and the anterior cerebral lobes; the other, the posterior subarachnoid sp)ace, is placed between the cerebellar hemi- spheres and the medulla oblongata. The fluid in the subarach- noid space communicates with the fluid of the general ventricular cavities of the brain through an aperture (foramen of Magendie) in the fourth ventricle, close to its lower boundary; and also through an opening, on each side, behind the glosso-pharyngeal nerves. In the spinal cord, also, there is a considerable interval containing fluid between the arachnoid and the pia mater. The purpose of this fluid is, not only to fill up space, as fat does in other parts, but mechanically to protect the nerve-centres from the violent shocks and vibrations to which they would otherwise be liable. The brain, therefore, may be said to be supported in a fluid, which insinuates itself into all the inequalities of the surface, and surrounds in fluid sheaths all the nerves as far as the foramina- through which they pass. This fluid sometimes escapes through the ear, in cases of fracture through the base of the skull, involving the meatus auditorius internus and the petrous portion of the temporal bone. The arachnoid is supplied with filaments from the motor root of the fifth, the facial, and the spinal accessory nerves.