296 LIGAMENTS OF THE SPINE, lumbar vertebree. They are the most marked in the lumbar SupiuspiNous region. Those fibres which connect the apices Ligament. of the spines, being stronger than the rest, are describecl as a separate ligament under the name of supraspinous. It extends from the spinous process of the seventh cervical to the spine of the sacrum ; and is strongest in the lumbar region. Their use is to limit the flexion of the spine. LIG.VMENTS These are called, on account of their colour, BETWEEN THE ' Ugamenta suhjiava. To obtain a good view of Arches of the them, the arches of the vertebrae should be re- Vektebb*. moved with a saw, and the ligaments should be seen from within, since viewed from without they are to a large extent liidden by the overlapping laminas. They pass between the laminte of the contiguous vertebras, fi*om the axis to the sacrum; none existing between the occiput and the atlas, or between the atlas and the axis. Each ligament consists of two halves which are attached to the corresponding half laminee above and below on each side. They are composed of yellow elastic tissue, the fibres being arranged vertically, and their strength increases with the size of the vertebras. This elasticity answers a double purpose : it not only permits the spine to bend forwards, but materially assists in restoring it to its curve of rest. They economise muscular force, like the ligamentum nuchee in animals. Interveiite- This substance, placed between the bodies of BRAL FiBRo- the vertebrfB, is by far the strongest bond of con- Cartilaoe. nection between them, and fulfils most important purposes in the mechanism of the spine. Its peculiar structure is adapted to break shocks, and to render the spine flexible and resilient. To see the structure of an intervertebral fibro-cartilage, a horizontal section must be made through it. It is firm and resisting near the - circumference, but soft and pulj^y towards the centre. The circumferential portion is composed of concentric layers of fibro-cartilage, placed vei'tically. These layers are ■ attached by their edges to the vertebrte ; they gradually decrease in number from the circumference towards the centre; and the interstices between them are filled by soft pulpy tissue. The central portion is composed almost entirely of this puljjy tissue;