603 STRUCTURE OF THE SMALL INTESTINE. The simple follicles or crijints of Lieheo'Jdihn,^ the most numeroua of all, are minute tubes with blind ends, very thickly distributed over the small and the large intestines. Under the microscope, 'their orifices are-seen between the villi, like so many minute dots. They vary in depth from 310th to y'^th of a line, and about -^th. of : a line in diameter; their walls consist of a delicate basement or ^endothelial membrane, and are lined with columnar epithelium. The duodenal or glands of Brunner ^ are found only in the duo- ■ denum and a small part of the beginning of the jejunum. They i are just visible to the naked eye, and may be seen by removing tthe muscular coat. Their structure exactly resembles the round ; compound glands of the mucous membrane of the mouth. The glands of Peyer ' (glandidce agminatce) abound most in the • ileum, and are seen most distinctly in children. They are arranged ' in groups, from twenty to forty in number, on that part of the in- • testine most distant from the attachment of the mesentery. These L groups are from half an inch to three inches long, of an oval form, land increase in size and number towards the lower part of the : ileum. If a group be examined by dissecting away the muscular I coat, you find that it is composed of a number of small oval vesicles, I like Florence flasks, imbedded in the submucous tissue. They 8 are composed of masses of lymphoid tissue, of about three-fourths 1 of a line in diameter, and contain an opaque greyish fluid. No- • excretory ducts have been traced from these vesicles, but they ar& f supposed to discharge their contents by rupture of their capsules. 1 Between the vesicles are found Lieberkiihn's follicles ; and the sur- I face of the patches is covered with villi. These glands are liable ' to be ulcerated in typhoid fever. They diminish in number and ' size with old asre. o The solitary glands are scattered ovor all parts of the small and large intestines. They consist of the same lymphoid structure as. the glands of Peyer, and only differ from them in being solitary i instead of being aggregated into groups. ' J. N. Lieberkuhn, Diss, de Fabric, et Actionc Villorum Intestin. ten., 1782. ' J. C. Brunner, Gland. Diioden. sen Pancreas Secundarizim, 1715. ' Peyer, De Olatidulis Intestinortim, 1682. These glands were first described ' by Nehemiah Grew, in 1681.