370 TRAPEZIUS. of the seventh cervical, and all the dorsal vertebras, and from their snpraspinous ligament. The fibres converge towards the shoulder. The upper pass downwards and outwards, and are inserted hy fleshy fibres into the external third of the clavicle; the middle pass transversely outwards into the inner border of the acromion and the superior lip of the spine of the scapula; the lower pass upwards and outwards, and terminate in a thin tendon, which plays over the triangular surface at the back of the scapula, and is inserted into the beginning of the spine. The insertion of the trapezius exactly corresponds to the origin of the deltoid, and the two muscles are connected by a thin aponeurosis over the spine and acromion. If both the trapezius muscles be exposed, observe that, between the sixth cervical and the third dorsal vertebras, their origin presents an aponeurotic space of an elliptical form (p. 371, fig. 85). The structures covered by the trapezius are : the splenius, the complexus, the levator anguli scapulas, the rhomboidei minor and major, the supraspinatus, a small part of the infraspinatus, the serratus posticus superior, the vertebral aponeurosis, the latissimus dorsi, the ilio-costalis, the spinal accessory nerve, and the super- ficialis colli artery. The fixed point of the muscle being at the vertebral column, all its fibres tend to raise the shoulder. The deltoid cannot raise the humerus beyond an angle of ninety degrees : beyond this, the elevation of the arm is principally effected by the rotatory move- ment of the scapula. The trapezius is in strong action when a weight is borne upon the shoulders ; again, its middle and inferior fibres act powerfully in drawing the scapula backwards, as in pre- paring to strike a blow. If both muscles act, they draw the head backwards; if one only acts, it draws the head to the same side. It is supplied by the nervus accessorius and the deep branches of the cervical plexus, and by the superficialis colli artery. Latissimus This broad flat muscle occupies the lumbar and DoEsi. lower dorsal regions, and thence extends to the arm, where it forms part of the posterior boundary of the axilla. It arises from the posterior third of the external lip of the crest ment is six feet long, and as thick as a man's forearm. Professor Quekett states that when divided it shrinks at least two feet.