172 BRACHIO-CEPHALIC VEINS. He will find that lie can, in a slight degree, alter the place and the extent of the impulse of the heart. Inspiration and expira- tion also alter the position of the heart. In inspiration the heart descends with the tendinous centre of the diaphragm about half an inch. The student should now make out the large vessels in con- nection with the base of the heart, leaving the considei*ation of this organ to a later stage of the dissection. Before we can display the brachio-cephalic veins, the layer of the deep cervical fascia must be removed which descends over them from the neck and is lost upon the pericardium. Their coats are intimately connected with this fascia; and one of its functions appears to be to keep the veins permanently open for the free return of blood to the heart. Brachio- The ricjlit and left brachio-cephalic (innomin- cEPH^vLic Veins. ate) veins are formed, near the sternal end of the clavicle, by the confluence of the internal jugular and subclavian veins. They diifer in their course and relations, and must, there- fore, be described separately. The left hrachio-ceplialic vein passes from the left side obliquely behind the first bone of the sternum, the sterno-hyoid and thyroid muscles, the remains of the thymus gland, towards the right side, to form with the right innominate vein the vena cava superior (fig. 42). It is about three inches in length, and its direction inclines a little downwards. It is larger than the right brachio-cephalic, and crosses over the trachea and the origins of the three primary branches of the arch of the aorta. We are reminded of this fact in some cases of aneurism of these vessels—for what happens ? The vein becomes compressed between the aneurism and the sternum; hence the swelling and venous congestion of the parts from which it returns its blood; namely, of the left arm, and the left side of the neck. The upper border of the vein is not far from the upper border of the sternum: in some cases it lies even higher, and we have seen it crossing in front of the trachea fully an inch above the sternum. This occasional deviation should be borne in mind in the perform- ance of tracheotomy. The right hracMo-cephalic vein descends nearly vertically to