266 TYMPANIC BRANCH OF THE GLOSSO-PHARYNGEAL. The comrmmicaiing branches which connect this ganglion with the pnenmogastric are, one to its auricular branch, and a second to the ganglion of the root. It is also connected with the sympathetic by a small filament from the superior cervical ganglion. Another communicating branch pierces the posterior belly of the digastricus to join the facial just external to the stylo-mastoid foramen. The tympanic nerve (Jacobson's) ascends, through a minute canal in the bony ridge which separates the carotid from the jugular fossa, to the inner wall of the tympanum, grooving the surface of the promontory, where it terminates in six filaments. Of these three are branches of distribution, and three of communication with other nerves. The hranches of clistrihution are, one each to the fenestra rotunda and the fenestra ovalis, which pass backwards, and one to the Eustachian tube, which is directed forwards. The hranches of communication are four small filaments; one or two tra- verse a bony canal in the anterior wall of the tympanum, and arch- ing forwards, join the jjlexus on the outer side of the carotid artery; another, the small dee}') 2^otrosal nerve, runs in a canal in the pro- cessus cochleariformis, passes through the foramen lacerum medium to join the carotid plexus; a third ascends in front of the fenestra ovalis, and, passing forwards, joins the great petrosal nerve in the hiatus Pallopii; the fourth leaves the front of the tympanum, under the name of the small siq^&i'ficial petrosal nerve, through a canal, where it is joined by a filament from the geniculate ganglion of the facial nerve; then passing beneath the canal for the tensor tympani, it emerges through a foramen on the anterior surface of the pars petrosa, external to the hiatus Pallopii; it proceeds along the anterior surface of pars petrosa, and emerges from the skuU' between the great wing of the sphenoid and the petrous bones to join the otic ganglion. Thus the tympanic branch is distributed to the mucous membrane of the tympanum and the Eustachian tube, and communicates with the spheno-palatine ganglion through the great petrosal nerve, and with the otic ganglion through the lesser petrosal (fig. 62). Pnedhogastbic This nerve leaves the cranium with the nervus Nekve. accessorius through a common canal in the dura mater, behind that for the glosso-pharyngeal. At its entrance into-