436 INTERNAL ABDOMINAL RING. strongest just behind the external abdominal ring, and, but for it and the conjoined tendon, there would be a direct opening into the abdominal cavity through the external ring. The outer half of the fascia is very firmly connected to Poupart's ligament and to the fascia iliaca; but the inner half is loosely connected with the crural arch, and passes down under it, as before stated, over the femoral vessels into the thigh, and forms the front of what is termed the crural sheath. Inteenai Ab- The opening in the fascia transversalis through DOMiNAL Ring. which the spermatic cord passes is called the internal abdominal ring (or the inner aperture of the inguinal canal). It corresponds to a point midway between the anterior superior spine of the ilium and the spine of the os pubis, and about half an inch above Poupart's ligament. It is oval with the long diameter nearly vertical; it is bounded above by the arched fibres of the transversalis muscle, and on the inner side by the deep epigastric vessels. Its margin is well defined on the inner, but not on the outer side, and from its border is continued for- wards a funnel-shaped prolongation over the spermatic cord, which passes through the ring. This covering, thin and ilelicate, is termed the infandihuliform fascia. (This is not seen in the diagram.) Close by the inner border of the internal ring, the deep epigastric artery ascends to enter the substance of the rectus. Arteeies op The abdominal walls are supplied with blood THE Abdominal derived from the intercostal, lumbar, and deep Walls. circumflex iliac arteries, and, in front also, from the internal mammary and deep epigastric arteries. The intercostal a/rteries come from the descending thoracic aorta, and, like their accompanying nerves, enter the abdominal wall between the transversalis and internal oblique muscles. They anastomose with the internal mammary, deep epigastric, and lumbar arteries. The lumbar artery accompanies the last dorsal nerve. The internal mammary artery divides, between the cartilages of the sixth and seventh ribs, into the musculo-phrenic and the superior epigastric arteries. The superior epigastric artery de- scends behind the cartilage of the seventh rib, and, piercing the