418 CARPAL ARTICULATIONS. carpal bones form a convex surface wliicli is received into tlie con- cavity formed by tbe radius and the cartilage. The joint is secured by an anterior, a posterior and two lateral ligaments. The external lateral ligament extends from the tip of the styloid process of the radius to the outer side of the scaphoid bone, to the anterior annular ligament, and to the trapezium. The internal lateral ligament is round, and proceeds from the extremity of the styloid process of the ulna to the cuneiform bone. Another fasciculus is attached to the pisiform bone and the anterior annular ligament. The anterior ligament consists of two or more broad bands of ligamentous fibres, which extend from the lower end of the radius to the first row of carpal bones, except the pisiform. The posterior ligament, weaker than the preceding, proceeds from the posterior surface of the lower end of the radius, and is attached to the posterior surfaces of the first row of carpal bones. The synovial membrane lines the under surface of the triangular fibro-cartilage at the end of the ulna, is reflected over the several ligaments of the joint, and thence upon the first row of the carpal bones (fig. 95). This articulation allows of all the movements of enarthrodial joints, except that of rotation : thus, it allows of flexion, extension, abduction, adduction, and circumduction, so that it is, strictly speaking, only an arthrodial joint. The bones of the carpus are arranged in two Cabpal Joints. ^ - ° rows, an upper and a lower, adapted to each other so as to form between them a joint. The articulations may be best arranged in three sets: those between the carpal bones of the first row; between those of the second row; and the articulation of the two rows with each other: they are all examples of arthrodial joints. a. The first row of carpal hones are connected together by two palmar, two dorsal, and two interosseous ligaments. The dorsal and palmar transverse ligaments proceed, on the dorsal and palmar aspects, from the scaphoid to the semilunar bone, and from the semilunar to the cuneiform bone : the dorsal being the stronger; the interosseous ligaments connect the semilunar with the bones on each side of it (fig. 95).