MUSCLES OF THE BACK. 284 „ _ This is a long narrow muscle, situated close to Spinalis Doitsi. ,, . /.it, , -, the spines oi the dorsal vertebrae, and apparently the inner part of the longissimus dorsi; it is by some considered the innermost column of the erector spinas. It arises by tendinous slips from the spinous processes of the two lower dorsal and two upper lumbar vertebrae, and is inserted by little tendons into the opinous processes of the six or eight upper dorsal vertebrae. Beneath it, is the semi-spinalis dorsi, which is closely connected with the spinalis dorsi. This small, but not constant muscle corresponds Spinalis Colli. • .t • i • , i m the cervical region to the spinalis dorsi m the dorsal region. It arises by tendinous slips from the spinous processes of the two or three lower cervical vertebrae (sometimes also from the two upper dorsal), and is inserted into the spine of the axis, and occasionally into the spinous processes of the third and fourth cervical. physis to diapophysis, from rib to rib (pleurapophysis),&c., orthey extend obliquely from diapophysis to spine, or from diapophysis to pleurapophysis, &c. ' The erector spiniB is composed of two planes of longitudinal fibres aggregated together, below, to form one mass at their point of origin, from the spines and posterior surface of the sacrum, from the sacro-iliac ligament, and from the pos- terior third of the iliac crest. It divides into two portions, the sacro-lumbalis and the longissimus dorsi. ' The former, arising from the iliac crest, or from the pleurapophysis (rib) of the first sacral vertebra, is inserted by short flat tendons into (1) the apices of the stunted lumbar ribs, close to the tendinous origins of the transversalis abdominis ; (2) the angles of the eight or nine inferior dorsal ribs ; (3) it is inserted, through the medium of the museulus accessorius, into the angles of the remaining supe- rior ribs, and into the long and occasionally distinct pleurapophysial element of the seventh cervical vertebra ; and (4) through the medium of the cervicalis ascendens, into the pleurapophysial elements of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebrte. In other words, the muscular fibres extend from rib to rib, from the sacrum to the third cervical vertebra. ' The longissimus dorsi, situated nearer the spine than the sacro-lumbaUs, is inserted (1) into the metapophysial spine of the lumbar diapophyses; (2) into the diapophyses of all the dorsal vertebrte, near the origin of the levatores costarum ; (3) through the medium of the transversalis colli into the diapophyses of the second, third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebrte ; and (4) through the medium of the trachelo-mastoid into the mastoid process, or the only element of a transverse process possessed by the parietal vertebra. In other words, its fibres extend from diapophysis to diapophysis, from the sacrum, upwards, to the parietal vertebra.'— Homologies of the Human Skeleton, by H. Coote, p. 75.