327 VEINS IN FRONT OF THE ELBOW. tlie insertion of the deltoid, and supply the skin of the upper half of the arm on its outer side. The external cutaneous branches of the nmsculo-spiral nerve are two in number : the tcpj^er and smaller accompanies the cephalic vein in the lower half of the arm ; the loiver may be traced down the outer and back part of the forearm nearly as far as the wrist, where it joins the posterior branch of the musculo-cutaneous nerve. On the outer side of the tendon of the biceps, the cutaneous hranch of the musc^ilo-cutaneoits nerve perforates the fascia, and divides into many filaments, which supply the skin of the outer part of the fore- arm. Disposition of Attention should now be directed to the dis- Veixs in feonx of position of the veins in front' of the elbow. In THE Elbow. cleaning these veins, take care not to divide the branches of the internal and external cutaneous nerves wliicli pass over and under them. The following is the ordinary arrangement of the superficial veins at the bend of the elbow {fig. 80). On the outer side is the radial; on the inner side is the ulnar vein, formed by tlie junction of the anterior and jjosterior ulnar cutaneous veins ; in the centre is the median, which, divides into two branches, the external of which, uniting with the radial to .form the cephalic vein, is called the median cei^halie • the internal, uniting with the ulnar to form the basilic, is named the median basilic. Near its bifur- cation, the median vein communicates by a branch (mediana pro- funda) with the deep veins which accompany the arteries of the forearm. Trace the cephalic vein up the arm. It runs along the outer border of the biceps to the groove between the pectoralis major and the deltoid, and dipping down between these two muscles, terminates in the axillary vein immediately above the pectoralis minor. The hasilic vein, the largest of the veins of the upper arm, ascends along the inner side of the arm with the internal cutaneous nerve. Near the middle of the arm, it perforates the fascia, and empties itself either into the internal vena comes of the brachia. artery, or into the axillary vein.