706 SUPERIOR TIMO-FIBULAR ARTICULATION. The respective points of th.e attacliment of the ligaments are' such that, when the joint is extended, all the ligaments are tight, to prevent extension beyond the perpendicular; thus muscular force is economised. But when the joint is bent the ligaments are relaxed, enough to admit a slight rotatory movement of the tibia. This movement is more free outwards than inwards; and is^ effected, not by rotation of the tibia on its own axis, but Fig. 164. -^^ rotation of the outer head round the inner. Rotation outwards is produced by the biceps ; rotation inwards- by the popliteus and semimembranosus. The crucial ligaments, though placed inside the joint, answer the same purposes as the coronoid process and the olecranon of the elbow. They make the tibia slide properly forwards and backwards. In extension, the anterior crucial ligament is tight, as are also the- oEuciAL ]g_{^gpal ligaments: in flexion, the posterior ligament LIGAMENTS ° i t • n • mi OF THE becomes tight and consequently limits nexion. ihey KNEE ^^^"^ conjointly limit excessive rotation. They not only prevent dislocation in front or behind, but they pre- vent lateral displacement, since they cross each other like braces,, as shown in fig. 164. Sdpeeior ^^^^ arthrodial or gliding joint, and is- T1B10-PIBULA.U formed by the flat oval surfaces of the upper part- Akticdlation. of t]ie tibia and fibula. It is secured by an anterior and a posterior tibio-fibular ligament. The anterior superior tihio-fibular ligament is a strong flat Liga- ment, whose fibres pass obliquely downwards and outwards from th& external tuberosity of the tibia to the head of the fibula. The posterior superior ligament passes in the same direction as,- the anterior, only being placed behind the joint. The synovial membrane occasionally communicates with that of the knee-joint. iNTEEossEous The coutiguous borders of the tibia and fibula- Membeane. are connected by the interosseous membrane. The purpose of it is to afibrd additional surface for the attachment of muscles. Its fibres pass chiefly downwards and outwards from the tibia to the fibula, but a few fibres cross like the letter X. The