DISSECTION OF THE FRONT OF THE LEG. 643 adductor brevis and magnus. In some bodies you can trace a fila- ment of this nerve through the notch of the acetabulum into the hip-joint, and another, which runs near the popliteal artery, into the back part of the knee-joint. We have frequently seen cutaneous branches from the obturator on the inner side of the thigh. This is interesting practically, since it helps to explain the pain often felt on the inner side of the knee in disease of the hip-joint. The accessory obturator nerve, when present, comes either from the obturator nerve or from the third and fourth lumbar nerves. Descending, it runs between the horizontal ramus of the os pubis and the pectineus, and supplies a branch to this muscle, also a fila- ment of communication to the anterior branch of the obturator, and a third branch to the hip-joint. The obturator artery, after passing through the foramen, divides into two branches, an internal and an external, which form a circle round the obturator membrane. These supply the external obtu- rator and adductors of the thigh, and inosculate with the internal circumflex artery (p. 640). The latter branch sometimes gives off the small artery to the ligamentum teres of the hip-joint. DISSECTION OF THE FEONT OF THE LEG. Surface About an inch below the patella is the promi- Maeking. nent tubercle of the tibia, to which the ligamentum patellae is attached; on each side of this is a depression, filled with more or less fat. About the same distance below the outer tubero- sity of the tibia is the head of the fibula, situated far back, and to it can be traced the tense tendon of the biceps. The crest of the tibia is easily felt in front, commencing above at the outer tuberosity, and passing down nearly vertically, gradually inclining to the inner side so that it is continuous below with the front of the internal malleolus. Internal to the crest is the subcutaneous internal surface of the tibia, and externally is the interval between the tibia and t he fibula, which is filled up by the extensor muscles. The lower fourth of the fibula is subcutaneous, ending in a well-marked prominence, the external malleolus, which, it should be observed, T T 2