721 THE CEREBRAL CIRCULATION. brain serves to mitigate the force of the heart's action; and the circle of Willis provides a free supply of blood from other vessels, in case any accidental circumstance should stop the flow of blood through any of the more direct channels.' Peculi.\bities Besides the circle of Willis, there are other OF THE Cerebk-u. peculiarities relating to the circulation of the CiKcuL.\TioN. blood in the brain: namely, the length and tor- tuosity of the four great arteries as they enter the skull; their passage through tortuous bony canals; the spreading of their rami- fications in a very delicate membrane, the pia mater, before they enter the substance of the brain ; the minuteness of the capillaries, and the extreme thinness of their walls; the formation of the venous sinuses (p. 10), which do not accompany the arteries; the chordge Willisii in the superior longitudinal sinus; the absence of valves in the sinuses; and the confluence of no less than six sinuses, forming the torcular Tlero^hili, at the internal occipital protuberance. General Dm- mass of nervous substance contained within SIGN OF THE the Cranial cavity, comprised under the common ^^>^- term brain (encepJialon'), is divided into four parts. The cerebrum forms the largest portion, and occupies the whole of the upper part of the cranial cavity; its base resting on the an- terior and middle fossse and the tentoriimi cerebelli. It is con- nected with the pons Varolii by two white nerve-masses, the crura cerebri, and with the cerebellum by two white cords, the crura cerebelli. The cerebellum, or smaller brain, occupies the space between the tentorium cerebelli and the inferior occipital fossEe. The pons Va/rolii is the quadrilateral mass of white fibres which rests upon the basilar process of the occipital bone. The medulla ' In many of the long-neckecl herbivorous quadrupeds a provision has been made in the disposition of the internal carotid arteries, for the purpose of equalising the force of the blood supplied to the brain. The arteries, as they enter the skull, divide into several branches, which again unite and form a remarkable network of ; arteries, called by Galen, who first described it, the ' rete mirabile.' The object of ' this evidently is to moderate the rapidity with which the blood would otherwise I enter the cranium in the different positions of the head, and thus preserve the I brain from those sudden influxions to which it would under other circumstances 1 be continually exposed. 3 A