819 TYMPANUM. lower and anterior wall of the osseous portion is formed by a semi- circular plate of bone, the tijmpaniG plate, tbe outer border of which, is thickened and is termed the external auditory 2^roGess. The shin and the cuticle are continued |down the passage, and becoming gradually thinner, form a cul-de-sac over the membrana tympani. The outer portion is furnished with hairs and ceru- minous glands, which secrete the cerumen or wax, and are only found over the cartilaginous portion of the canal. Its arteries are derived from the posterior auricular, the internal maxillary and the temporal, all branches of the external carotid artery. Its nerves come from the auriculo-temporal branch of the inferior maxillary nerve. The tympamim, or middle ear, is an irregular cavity in the petrous part of the temporal bone: having on its outer side the membrana tympani; on its inner side the labyrinth; behind, the mastoid cells; in front, the carotid canal; below, the wall of the jugular fossa. It is rather less than half an inch in its long diameter; from -i-th to -j^th of an inch between its outer and inner boundaries ; and a quarter of an inch in its vertical direction. It is lined with mucous membrane and filled with air, which is freely admitted through the Eustachian tube; so that atmospheric pressure is equal on both sides of the membrane. A chain of small bones, the ossicles, retained in their position by ligaments and acted upon by muscles, passes across it. The use of these bones is to communicate the vibrations of the membrana tympani to the labyrinth. For this purpose one end of the chain is attached to the membrane, the other to the fenestra ovalis. The tympanum is bounded by a floor, a roof, an outer, an inner, an anterior, and a posterior wall. Its roo/ is formed by a thin plate of bone corresponding with the anterior surface of the pars petrosa, which separates the tympanum from the cranial cavity. The floor, which is narrow, is formed by a thin plate, corre- !spending to the jugular fossa beneath : it is perforated in front by . a small aperture for Jacobson's nerve. Its outer ivall is formed mainly by the membrana tympani, and Iby a ring of bone which affords attachment to it; the latter is