27 MUSCLES OF THE FACE, thus: in tlie upper lip by two fasciculi on each side, one to the septum nasi, the other to the alveolar border opposite the incisor teeth; in the lower lip by a single fasciculus to the lower jaw on each side opposite the canine tooth. The cutaneous surface of the muscle is intimately connected with the lips and the surrounding skin ; the deep surface is separated from the mucous membrane by the labial glands and the coronary vessels. The orbicularis is the antagonist of all the muscles which move the lips. Upon a nice balance of their opposite actions depends the play and infinitely varied expression of the mouth.^ Depressor This muscle arises broadly from the oblique line Angtjli Obis. of the lower jaw behind the foramen mentale, and is inserted narrowly into the angle of the mouth, intermingling with the zygomatici, the risorius, and orbicularis oris. It is an important muscle in the expression of sorrowful emotions. We see its action when children cry. Depressor '^^'^^ muscle arises from the oblique line of the LABn Infebiokis, lower jaw below the foramen mentale, and is in- OK QuADBATus sertscl iuto the lower lip, its fibres intermingling Menti. y^ith. those of its fellow of the opposite side and the orbicularis. It covers the vessels and nerves which emerge from the foramen. Levator Menti This muscle arises from the lower jaw, from the OR Levatob Labii fossa below the incisor teeth, and, passing down, Lnfebiobis. jg inserted into the skin of the chin. To see it, evert the lower lip and remove the mucous membrane on either side of the fraenum. There are two of them, one for each side. Their action is well seen when we shave the chin, or protrude the lower lip. Zyoojuticus The zygomaticus major arises from the outer Major and Minor, surface of the malar bone close to its suture with the zygoma, passes obliquely downwards and inwards, and is ' In strong muscular lips the upper j)art of the orbicularis sends a small sub- cutaneous slip of muscle from each side along the septum nasi nearly to the apex. The interval between the two slips corresponds to the furrow which leads from the nose to the lip. This is the naso-lahialis or deimssor scpti narium of Haller and Albinus.