180 PHRENIC NERVES IN THE CHEST. CounsE OF THE plireniic nerve comes from the third, fourth. Phrenic Neiives and fifth cervical nerves, but chiefly from the THitouGH THE fourth. It descBuds on the scalenus anticus, ■ gradually inclining to its inner border, and enters the chest between the subclavian vein and artery. It then crosses over the internal mammary artery and runs in front of the root of the lung, between the pleura and the pericardium to the diaphragm (fig. 30), to the under surface of which it is distributed.' The phrenic nerve is joined on the scalenus anticus by an offset from the fifth cervical branch of the brachial plexus ; by another filament from the sympathetic nerve; and very fi'equently by a small loop from the nerve to the subclavius muscle; occasionally also by a branch from the descendens noni. In what respects do the phrenic nerves differ from each other in their course ?—The right phrenic runs along the outer side of the brachio-cephalic vein and superior vena cava; the left crosses in front of the transverse part of the arch of the aorta; besides which, the left is rather longer than the right, since it curves over the apex of the heart. Before the phrenic nerve divides into branches to supply the diaphragm, it sends off minute filaments to the pleura and the pericardium: after it has pierced the diaphragm it distributes branches to the peritoneum. The rirjlit phrenic gives off one or two filaments, which unite with some filaments from the solar plexus and form a small ganglion, from which branches are dis- tributed to the supra-renal capsule, the hepatic plexus, and the inferior vena cava. The left phrenic gives off a branch which joins a twig from the sympathetic near the oesophageal opening of the diaphragm, but there is no appearance of a ganglion. Having studied these anatomical details, consider for a moment what symptoms are likely to be produced by an aneurism of the arch of the aorta, or any of the primary branches. A glance at the important parts in the neighbourhood helps to answer the question. The effects will vary according to the part of the artery which is ' In the Museum of the College of Surgeons there is a dissection showing that the right phrenic nerve enters the diaphragm close to the right side of the vena cava inferior, while the left phrenic enters the left muscle of the diaphragm.