424 ABDOMINAL MUSCLES. ilium to tlie skin of the buttock, without dividing like the other nerves. The corresponding branch of the first lumbar has a similar distribution. h. The anterior cutaneous nerves emerge with small arteries through the sheath of the rectus. They are not only smaller than the lateral nerves, but their number and place of exit is less regular. c. The ilio-hypogastritt nerve comes from the first lumbar nerve, pierces the transversalis at the iliac crest, and then divides into an Uiac and hjqjogastric branch. The iliac branch comes through both oblique muscles, and runs over the crest of the ilium, behind the last dorsal nerve, supplying the integument over the gluteal muscles. The hypogastric hranch lies at first between the transversalis and internal oblique; then, piercing the latter, it runs forwards and comes through the aponeurosis of the external oblique, just above the external abdominal ring, and is distributed to the skin in the neighbourhood. d. The ilio-incjuinal nerve, a branch also of the first lumbar nerve, is placed below the preceding nerve, with which it is con- nected near the crest of the ilium. It pierces the transversalis and internal oblique, runs down in the inguinal canal in front of the cord, and comes out through the external abdominal ring to be distributed to the skin of the inner part of the groin, to the scrotum and penis in the male, and to the labium pudendi in the femalo. The deep layer of the superficial fascia should DisshCTioN. removed from the external oblique, by commencing at the fleshy portion of the muscle, and working in the course of its fibres. Care must be taken not to remove any of its silvery aponeurosis, which is very thin, especially above. The diaitations of this muscle with the serratus magnus and latissimus dorsi must also be made out. Muscles of the The abdominal muscles, three on each side, are AsDosnNAL ai-ranged in strata, named, after the direction of Wall. tYiQxv fibres, the external oblique, internal oblique, and transversalis. They terminate in front in strong aponeuroses,