GLOSSO-rHARYNGEAL NERVE. 143 others join those of the palato-pharyngeus at its insertion. Curving round its lower border is seen the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, from which its nerve-supply is derived. Its action is to raise the larynx with the pharynx in deglutition.' Between the stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyngeus, and nearly parallel with both, is the stylo-hyoid ligament. It extends from the apex of the styloid process to the lesser cornu of the os hyoides. It is often more or less ossified. The ascending j^cf'^f^tine artery, a branch of the facial (p. 98), runs up between the stylo-glossus and the stylo-pharyngeus, and divides into branches which supply these muscles, the palate, the side of the pharynx, and the tonsils. It inosculates with the descending palatine, a branch of the internal maxillary. Glosso-pha- The glosso-pharyngeal nerve is observed curving Nebve. forwards round the lower border of the stylo- pharyngeus (p. 142). It is the ninth cranial nerve, arises by five or six filaments from the groove between the olivary body and the restiform tract of the medulla oblongata, leaves the skull through the middle part of the foramen jugulare in a separate sheath of dura mater, in front of the pneumogastric and spinal accessory nervesj and descends between the internal jugular vein and the in- ternal carotid artery. It then crosses in front of the artery below the styloid process, and proceeds along the lower border of the stylo-pharyngeus. At this point, it curves forwards over that muscle and the middle constrictor of the pharynx, and disappears beneath the hyo-glossus, where it divides into its terminal branches, which supply the mucous membrane of the pharynx, the back of the tongue, and the tonsils. The glosso-pharyngeal is, at its origin, purely a sensory nerve. But soon after its exit from the skull it receives coinmunicatio7is from the facial, the pneumogastric, and the sympathetic, so that it soon becomes a compound nerve—i.e. composed of both sensory and motor filaments. At the base of the skull it presents two ' Varieties of this muscle are frequently met with, chiefly as sufiernumerary muscles. They arise variably from neighbouring parts of the base of the skull close to the styloid process, and are inserted either into the pharyngeal constrictors or into the aponeurosis of the pharynx.