799 STRUCTUfiE OF THE CORNEA. Tlie posterior elastic lamina, called also the membrane of Besce- met or Demours, is translucent, elastic, and brittle, and may be ■easily separated from the preceding lamina. It consists of a per- fectly structureless lamina, which, when peeled off, has a remark- able tendency to curl with the attached surface innermost. It is unaffected by boiling, or by the action of acids or alkalies, and is from ^ToL-th to -j-oVoth of an inch in thickness. At the junction of this lamina with the sclerotic on its inner surface, it spreads out into a number of radiating tooth-like processes, the ligamentum jpectinatum iridis, which are attached to the front of the circum- ference of the iris and to the sclerotic and choroid coats. The pro- cesses alone are covered with epithelial cells, and the intervals between the processes form small spaces, the spaces of Fontana, which communicate freely with the fluid of the aqueous chamber. In the sclerotic coat, close to its junction with the cornea, is situated a small oval canal, lined with epithelium, termed the sinus cii'cularis iridis or canal of Sclilemm (fig. 198). Although, by some, it is considered a lymph-space, it is probably a venous sinus, for it can be injected from the arteries; but it has probably some free communication with the fluid of the anterior chamber, as this fluid passes readily from the chamber into this sinus.' The epitlielial lining consists of a single layer of polygonal nucleated cells, and lines the inner surface of the posterior elastic lamina. They resemble those which line serous membranes generally. Arteries and nerves.—In the healthy condition the cornea con- tains no blood-vessels, except at its circumference, where they form loops. Nor have any lymphatics been demonstrated in it. Its Tierves, which are numerous—forty to forty-five in number—are flerived from the ciliary nerves, and may be traced forwards to the fibrous portion of the cornea, where they lose their dark outline and become transparent, forming a fine plexus—the prima.ry plexus. This gives off minute filaments which ramify beneath the epithe- lium, constituting the secondary or suh-epithelial plexus. From ' For further information on this point consult Leber, Arcliiv f. Oi)th. 1878; Ileisrath, Archivf. Opth. xxvi.; and Schwalbe, Graefc, and Saemiseh's Handbook, 1874.