TPIE SPINAL COKD. 789 On making transverse sections throiigli different regions of the spinal cord, the grey substance is seen to vary in shape and in amount: in the cervical region, the anterior cornua are thick and short, the posterior are long and slender; in the dorsal, the anterior and posterior cornua are both thin; in the lumbar, the anterior and posterior cornua are large and broad; in the lower part of the cord the grey matter is arranged in a central mass. Eunning along the centre of the cord in its whole length is a minute canal, the central canal, just visible to the naked eye. Below, in the conus medullaris, it ends in a dilated cul-de-sac, of the shape of the letter T ; above, it opens out at the calamus scrip- torius into the fourth ventricle. It is lined with cylindrical ciliated epithelium. This central canal is interesting, as it is the. remains of the cavity formed by the spinal cord at the earliest period of its development.' Thirty-one pairs of nerves arise from the spinal Spinal Neeves. ^ ■ ^ , ■ ,^ • ^ • , i • cord, namely eight m the cervical region, twelve m the dorsal, five in the lumbar, five in the sacral, and one in the coccygeal. Each nerve is formed by the junction of two series of roots, one from the front, which is the motor root, the other from the back of the cord, which is the sensory and larger root. The two roots pierce the dura mater separately and then converge to the corresponding intervertebral foramen to form a single nerve, com- posed of motor and sensory filaments. The filaments composing the posterior roots are finer, but their fasciculi are thicker and more numerous than the anterior.^ They proceed from the postero-lateral fissure, and previous to their union with the anterior roots are collected into two bundles which pass through a ganglion. The ganglion is of an oval form, bilobate on its external extremity, and lies in the intervertebral foramen; each fasciculus of the posterior root enters the corresponding lobe of the ganglion. The ganglia of the first and second cervical nerves are placed upon the arches of the atlas and axis respectively; the ganglia of the sacral and coccygeal nerves are situated within The central canal is well seen in fishes, birds, and reptiles. ' This does not apply to the first cervical nerve, in which the anterior root exceeds the posterior in size.