613 INTERNAL SAPHENA VEIN. area of the divided branch.' There is another pudic artery, called the deep or inferior external intdic : this runs between the fascia lata and the pectineus, supplying that muscle, the scrotum in the male, and the labium in the female. They both anastomose with branches of the internal pudic artery. The incision should be' prolonged down the thigh, over the knee to the tubercle of the tibia. The skin must then be reflected, to expose the subcutaneous tissue over the whole of the front of the thiffh. The cutaneous vessels and nerves should be looked for in the subcutaneous fat in the following situations: on the inner side are the inguinal branch of the ilio-inguinaL nerve passing down through the external abdominal ring, internal to the saphenous opening; loiver down, are the two branches of the internal cutaneous nerve supplying the skin on the inner aspect of the thigh as far as the knee, the lower branch accompanying the internal saphena vein which ascends to pierce the saphenous opening; there are also loW down some filaments from the long saphena nerve; on the front of the thigh there is found the crural branch of the genito-crural nerve, and lower down, as far as the knee are the middle cutaneous nerves ; on the outer side are seen filaments of the external cutaneous nerve. iNTEKNAii This is the chief subcutaneous vein of the lower Saphena limb. Its roots, arising from the inner side of a venous arch on the dorsum of the foot, unite into a single trunk, which ascends in front of the inner ankle, along the inner side of the leg, behind the knee, along the inner and front part of the thigh, where it passes through an opening—the saphe- nous opening—in the fascia lata, to join the femoral vein, imme- diately below the crural arch (fig. 143). In this long course it receives many tributary veins, some of which are often large, especially one which, coursing round the inner part of the thigh, is frequently as large as the main trunk. Just before its termination it is joined by the superficial veins, which accompany the arteries of the groin, already alluded to, p. 611. Like all ' Mr. Listen had occasion to tie the external iliac artery for a supposed injury (by a pistol-ball) to the femoral. It was discovered, after the death of the patient, that the ball had injured only one of the superficial branches of the femoral about an inch from its origin. See his paper in the Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xxix., 1846.