rECTORALIS MINOR. 314 capacity according to the position of the arm to the side. On the inner side, it is bonneted by the four upper ribs, with their corre- sponding intercostal muscles and the serratus magnus; on the outer, by the humerus, covered by the coraco-brachialis and biceps; in front, by the pectoralis major and minor; behind, by the latis- simus dorsi, teres major, and subscapularis. Its anterior and posterior boundaries converge from the chest, so that the axilla becomes narrower towards the arm. With a full view of the axilla before you, bear in mind that pus may burrow under the pectoral muscles, or under the scapula, or that it may run up beneath the clavicle and point in the neck, if the abscess be allowed to remaui unopened. AxiLLABY Lymph- The axillary glands form a continuous chain, ATic Glands. beneath the clavicle, with the cervical glands. They are from ten to twelve in number, of a reddish-brown colour, and variable size. Most of them lie near the axillary vessels; others are embedded in the loose tissue of the axilla; sometimes one or two small ones are observed along the lower border of the pectoralis major. They are supplied with blood hj a branch— thoracica alaris—of the axillary artery, and by branches from the thoracic and subscapular arteries. These glands receive the lymphatics from the arm, from the front and side of the chest, and from the outer half of the mam- mary gland. It is these glands which frequently become enlarged in cancer of the mammary gland. From these glands the efferent lymphatics pass along with the subclavian artery and terminate, on the eight side, in the right lymphatic duct; and, on the left side, in the thoracic duct. Now cut through the pectoralis major, about Dissection. ox o ' the middle, and turn the inner part of the muscle towards the sternum, and the outer part towards the arm. The pectoralis minor is thus exposed, together with the ramifications of the short and long thoracic arteries. Preserve the arteries, as far as possible, in connection with the main trunks. Pectoralis This triangular muscle arises from the third. Minor. fourth, and fifth ribs, near the costal cartilages, and from the thick fascia over the intercostal spaces. The fibres