212 PECULIARITIES OF THE FCETAL CIRCULATION. attached to the fibrous tissue in the triangular interspace; a second set pass through the septum to form the posterior wall of the right ventricle and its posterior pajjillary muscle; while the third set take a transverse circular course in the left ventricle, some of its fibres being continuous with those of the right ventricle. The fibres of the right ventricle are arranged on a plan similar to that of the left ventricle, of which it may be considered an appendage. The fibres, which correspond to those forming the chief thickness of the left ventricle, are similarly arranged into an anterior, middle and posterior set: the anterior pass backwards into the septum to reach the posterior wall of the left ventricle and interlace in the septum with the posterior set which pass forwards in the septum to the front wall of the left ventricle ; the middle set come chiefly from the outer wall of the right ventricle, deep down at the lower part of the septum, and then ascend to be attached to the fibro-cartilage. Besides these there are moi'e or less numerous annular fibres encircling the right ventricle.' Thickness of The average thickness of the right auricle is THE Cavities. about one line; that of the left, one and a half. The average thickness of the right ventricle at its thickest part— i.e. the base,— is about two lines. That of the left ventricle at its thickest part—i.e. the middle—is about half an inch. In the female the average is less. Pecdliabities The heart and the circulation of the foetus OF THE FcETAL differ from that of the adult in the following CincuLATioK. points :— 1. The Eustachian valve is well developed as a crescentic fold which guides the current of blood from the inferior vena cava through the right auricle into the foramen ovale. 2. The foramen ovale is widely open up to the fourth mouth, after which a septum grows up from the lower border of the left side, so that at the sixth month the blood can only pass in the onward direction into the left auricle. 1 There are other accounts given of the arrangements of the muscular struc- ture of the heart, and that given by Pettigrew is one which is adopted by many of the best anatomists. For further information on this subject consult Pettigrew, Philosoph. Transactions, 1864 ; Dr. Sibson, Medical Anatomy, 1869 ; 'Winckler, Mailer's Arcliiv, 1865 ; Quain's Anatomy, vol. ii. p. 495, 1882.