AXILLARY ARTERY. 315 run obliquely upwards and outwards, and converge to a strong tendon, which is inserted into the anterior surface of the coracoid process. The tendon is connected to that of the coraco-brachialis and biceps by a strong fascia, which forms a protection for the subjacent axillary vessels and nerves. The action of this muscle is to draw the scapula downwards and forwards. Its nerve is derived from the internal anterior thoracic. _ Havina: examined the muscles which form the Dissection. . ^ anterior boundary oi the axilla, we pass now to the course and relations of the axillary artery and its branches. To have a clear view, reflect the subclavius from its insertion, and cut the pectoralis minor through its middle. AxiLLAKY Ae- This artery, the continuation of the subclavian, TEET, ITS COURSE takcs the name of axillary at the outer border of AND BELATioNs. |;]jg gpg^ then passes downwards and out- wards, through the upper part of the axilla, beneath the two pec- toral muscles, and along the inner border of the coraco-brachialis, as far as the lower border of the tendon of the teres major, beyond which it is continued under the name of the brachial. Its course is divided for convenience of description into three parts : the first lies above the pectoralis minor; the second behind that muscle; and the third below it. In the first ]ja,rt of its course, the artery is covered by the pec- toralis major and the costo-coracoid membrane, the subclavius, and is crossed by the cephalic and acromio-thoracic veins. On its inner side, and slightly in front, is the axillary vein; on its outer side is the brachial plexus of nerves ; behind it, are the first intercostal space, the second digitation of the serratus magnus, and the pos- terior thoracic nerve (external respiratory of Bell). In the second part of its course, it lies behind the pectoralis major and minor; on its inner side is the axillary vein, still slightly anterior, but separated from the artery by the inner cord of the brachial plexus ; on its outer side is the outer cord of the brachial plexus; and behind it, is the posterior cord of the plexus, and also a quantity of loose connective tissue which separates it from the subscapularis muscle. The inner head of the median nerve is often in front of the artery in this part of its course.