707 ANKLE-JOINT. anterior tibial artery comes forwards above the interosseous mem- brane, through an oval space about an inch below the head of the fibula. Lower down there is an aperture for the anterior peroneal artery. It is moreover pierced here and there by small blood- vessels. ixFEKioB "^^^ lower extremities of the tibia and fibula are TiBio-FiBDLAR firmly connected, for it is essential to the security Abticulation. of ^-^Q ankle-joint that there should be little or no movement between the two bones. The anteriw inferior ligament passes between the adjacent borders of the two bones; it is narrow above but broader below, and consists of oblique fibres which pass downwards and outwards. The posterior inferior ligament is stronger and narrower than the anterior, and its fibres pass horizontally from the outer mal- leolus to the posterior border of the tibia, above the articular surface. The transveo'se ligament is the lower part of the preceding, and may be usually recognised as a distinct narrow fasciculus. The inferior interosseous ligament consists of strong short fibres connecting the contiguous surfaces of the two bones, and continuous above with the interosseous membrane. The synovial m,embrane of this joint is an extension upwards of that of the ankle-joint. From the form of the bones, it is obvious that Ankle-joint. i i • • i t • • . . the ankle is a gmgiymus or hmge-jomt; conse- quently, its security depends upon the great strength of its lateral ligaments. The hinge, however, is not so perfect but that it admits of a slight rotatory motion, of which the centre is on the fibular side, and therefore the reverse of that in the case of the knee. The ligaments of the ankle-joint comprise the anterior, the internal and the external lateral ligaments. The anterior ligament is a thin loose membranous ligament, attached above to the tibia, and below to the astragalus in front of their articular surfaces, and is sufiiciently loose to permit the necessary range of motion. The internal lateral ligament, sometimes called, from its shape, deltoid, is exceedingly thick and strong, and compensates for the z z 2