FALSE AND TRUE VOCAL COHDS. 245 -epiglottis, laterally by the aryteno-epiglottic folds and cuneiform cartilages, posteriorly by the arytenoid cartilages and the cornicula laryngis. The apex presents the funnel-shaped appearance from ■which the arytenoid cartilages derive their name. On looking down through this superior opening you see the cavity of the larynx, which is divided into an upper and a lower part by the narrow triangular fissure, called the glottis, or rima glottidis; so that the upper part gradu.ally narrows to this chink, while the lower part gradually widens, and becomes con- tinuous at the lower border of the cricoid cartilage with the trachea. The objects seen above the rima glottidis are, in the middle line, below the base of the epiglottis, a round elevation covered with mucous membrane of a bright pink colour, termed the cusJdon of the epiglottis; on each side is an arched fold, the false vocal cords with their concavity looking downwards, and forming the upper boundary of a small recess, the ventricle of the larynx, leading into a pouch, called the saccidus laryngis ; below this, are the two white bands, the true vocal cords, which fornj the boundaries of the glottis. The larynx below the true vocal cords gradually enlarges, and presents nothing calling for special description. Glottis, or Eima The rima glottidis is the triangular horizontal Glottidis. opening between the inferior or true vocal cords. Its apex is directed forwards, its base backwards. The anterior two-thirds of this opening is bounded by the true vocal cords, the posterior third by the arytenoid cartilages. The length in the male is eleven lines, its width at rest from three to four lines; in the female its length is eight lines, its width two lines. Before the age of puberty these dimensions are much less. Superior or These are the prominent crescentic folds of False Vocal mucous membrane which form the upper boun- daries of the ventricles and enclose within them thin ligamentous fibres, called the superior thyro-arytenoid ligaments. They are called the false vocal cords, because they have little or nothing to do with the production of the voice. They are com- posed of elastic tissue like the true vocal cords; but they also contain fatty tissue, which the true ones do not.