410 INTEROSSEOUS MEMBRANE. the cartilaginous surfaces of tlie bones. The synovial membrane lines the interior of the capsule, and forms a cul-de-sac between the head of the radius and its annular ligament. It is widest and loosest under the tendon of the triceps. Where the membrane is reflected from the bones upon the ligaments, there is more or less adipose tissue, particularly in the fossee on the front and back part of the lower end of the humerus. The only movements permitted between the humerus and the ulna are those of flexion and extension, both of which are limited by the ligaments and tendons in front of and behind the joint, and probably not by the coronoid and olecranon processes. The head of the radius is most in contact with the capitellum of the humerus during semiflexion and semipronation; and it is kept, by the strong orbicular ligament which surrounds the neck of the radius, from being dislocated forwards by the biceps. The movement at the superior radio-ulnar articulation is that of rotation in the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna, forming an example of a lateral gin- glymus or diarthrosis rotatoria. It is by this rotation of the head of the radius, that the hand is carried through an extensive range of pronation and supination; for it is articulated only to the lower end of the radius, the ulna being excluded by the interarticular fibro-cartilage from taking any share in the movement at the wrist- joint. Intebosseous This is an aponeurotic septum, stretched be- Membbane. tween the interosseous ridges of the .radius and ulna, of which the chief purpose is to afford an increase of surface for the attachment of muscles. The septum is deficient above, beginning about an inch below the tubercle of the radius, and thus permits free rotation of that bone. Its fibres extend obliquely downwards from the radius to the ulna. It is perforated in its lower third by the anterior interosseous vessels. The name of round or oblique ligament is given to a thin band of fibres, which extends obliquely between the bones of the fore- arm in a direction contrary to those of the interosseous membrane. It is attached, superiorly, to the front surface of the ulna, near the outer side of the coronoid process; inferiorly, to the radius imme- diately below the tubercle. Between this ligament and the upper