MUSCLES OF THE NOSE AND LIP. 35 a small nerve is seen running down towards the tip of the nose. This nerve is the superficial branch of the nasal nerve (called also naso-lobular). It becomes subcutaneous between the nasal bone and the cartilage, and supj)lies the tip and lobule of the nose. It is joined by a branch of the facial nerve at its termination. Depressor Ai,.E This arises from the superior maxilla, above Nasi. the second incisor tooth, and is inserted into the septum and ala of the nose. It is situ.ated between the mucous membrane and the muscular structure of the upper lip; so that, to expose it, the upper lip must be everted, and the mucous mem- brane removed. Besides the muscles above described, we find in connection with the cartilages of the alae of the nose, pale muscular fibres which Tiave no very definite arrangement and require a lens for their detection. The dilatator naris posterior arises from the nasal pro- cess of the superior maxilla and the sesamoid cartilages, and is in- serted into the skin of the margin of the nostril; the dilatator naris anterior^ descends vertically from the cartilage of the aper- ture to its free margin. The action of these small muscles is to raise and evert the ala of the nose, and to counteract its tendency to be closed by atmospheric pressure. In dyspnoea, and in certain mental emotions, they contract with great energy. Levator Labh This arises from the nasal process of the supe- SupERioRis rior maxillary bone near its orbital margin, and ALiEQUE Nasi. passing downwards divides into two portions: an inner inserted into the side of the ala of the nose ; an outer, into the upper lip, where its fibres blend with the orbicularis oris and levator labii superioris. It acts chiefly in expressing the smile of derision. Its habitual use occasions the deep furrow which, in most faces, runs from the ala of the nose towards the corner of the mouth. Levatob Labii This arises from the lower margin of the orbit, ■Superioris i.e. from the superior maxilla and malar bone, Proprius. above the infra-orbital foramen, and is inserted into the upper lip, where its fibres blend with the orbicukris oris. It is nearly an inch in breadth at its origin, which covers the infra-orbital vessels and nerves, and is itself overlapped by the orbicularis palpebrarum. D 2