345 MUSCLES OF THE FOREARM. that, in order to expose it fully, the preceding muscles should be reflected, by cutting them through the middle, and turning the ends upwards and downwards. The longer origin takes place from the internal condyle, from the internal lateral ligament, the com- mon tendon, and the intermuscular septa ; the second origin takes place from the coronoid process of the ulna above the pronator teres; the third origin, by tendinous and fleshy fibres from the oblique ridge on the front of the radius, extending from the tubei'cle to about an inch below the insertion of the pronator teres. This, called its radial origin, is partly concealed by the pronator teres. The muscle, thus formed, passes down the middle of the forearm, and divides into four distinct muscular slips : from these, four tendons arise, which pass beneath the annular ligament, arranged in two pairs ; the tendons of the middle and ring fingers being placed over those of the fore and little fingers. The tendons pass through the palm to the fingers, where they diverge and split to allow the passage of the deep flexor tendons, and are inserted into the sides of the second phalanges where they will be subse- quently traced. Its action is, therefore, to bend the second joint of the fingers. The muscles described as arising from the internal condyle are all supplied by the median nerve, except the flexor carpi ulnaris, which is supplied by the ulnar. Having finished the superficial muscles on the inner side of the forearm, notice one of those on the outer side, named supi- nator radii longus, before tracing the vessels and nerves of the forearm. Supinator This muscle forms the external boundary of the Eadh Longus. triangular space at the bend of the elbow. It arises by fleshy fibres from the upper two-thirds of the external condyloid ridge of the humerus, commencing a little below the insertion of the deltoid, and from the external intermuscular septum. The muscular fibres terminate about the middle of the forearm in a flat tendon, which is inserted into the outer side of the base of the styloid process of the radius. The inner border of the muscle is the guide to the radial artery which lies between this muscle and the flexor carpi radialis. It supinates the hand, but