145 INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY, of the external carotid artery, behind the inner border of the sterno- niastoid. It soon gets beneath the external carotid, and lies deeply beneath the parotid gland, and ascends by the side of the pharynx and tonsil. It lies niwn the rectus capitis anticus major, the supe- rior laryngeal nerve, and the superior cervical ganglion of the sym- pathetic ; to its outer side, is the internal jugular vein and the pneumogastric nerve ; to its wwer side, is the pharynx, the tonsil, and the ascending pharyngeal artery ; it is crossed, successively, by the hypoglossal nerve, the occipital artery, the digastricus, and stylo-hyoid muscles ; higher up it is crossed by the styloid process, the stylo-glossus, and stylo-pharyngeus muscles, by the glosso- pharyngeal nerve and the stylo-hyoid ligament, all of which last-^ named structures intervene between it and the external carotid. The most important relation of the artery, in a surgical point of view, is, that it ascends close by the side of the flmrynx and tonsil. In opening an abscess, therefore, near the tonsil, or at the back of the pharynx, be careful to introduce the knife with its point inwards towards the mesial line: observe this caution the more, becavise in some subjects, the internal carotid makes a curve, or even a complete curl upon itself, in its ascent near the pharynx. In such cases an undue deviation of the instrument in an outward direction might injure the vessel. Ascending This artery generally arises from the back part Pharyngeal of the external carotid about half an inch above Artery. angle of the common carotid. It ascends in a straight course between the internal carotid artery and the side of tlie pharynx, towards the base of the skull, resting upon the rectus capitis anticus major. Its gives off three sets of branches :— a. Pharyngeal branches, three or four in number : the two lower supply the inferior and middle constrictors, and stylo-pharyngeus, ana- stomosing with the superior thyroid a. ; the upper branch, the palatine, ascends upon the superior constrictor, runs down with the levator palati, above the superior constrictor, and supplies the muscles of the palate, the Eustachian tube, and the tonsil. h. Prevertebral branches, which supply the prevertebral muscles, the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, the lymphatic glands, and the pneumogastric and hypoglossal nerves. L