382 TERES MAJOR AND MINOR. to the shoulder, and died of delirium tremens. On examination the humerus was found broken high up, the capsule of the joint opened, and the circumflex nerve torn completely across.' A strong aponeurosis covers the muscles of the dorsum of the scapula, and is firmly attached to the spine and borders of the bone. At the posterior edge of the deltoid, it divides into two layers, one of which passes over, the other under, the muscle. Remove the aponeurosis, so far as it can be done without injury to the muscular fibres which arise from its under surface. Infba- This triangular muscle m-ises by fleshy fibres from spiNATus. the posterior two-thirds of the infraspinous fossa, by tendinous fibres from the ridges on the fossa, and from the apo- neurosis which covers it. The fibres converge to a tendon, which is at first contained in the substance of the muscle, and then proceeds, over the capsular ligament of the shoulder-joint, to be inserted into the middle depression on the greater tuberosity of the humerus. Its nerve comes from the suprascapular. This long narrow muscle is situated below the Teres Minor. . „ . , -. 4.1 • x- • i j e ^.^ miraspmatus, along the mierior border or the scapula. It arises from the dorsum of the scapula close to the inferior border, and from the intermuscular septa between it and the infraspinatus above and the teres major below. The fibres ascend outwards parallel with those of the infraspinatus, and ter- minate in a tendon, which passes over the capsular ligament of the shoulder-joint, and is inserted into the lowest depression on the great tuberosity of the humerus, and by muscular fibres into the bone below it. It is supplied by a branch of the circumflex nerve, which enters the muscle at its lower border, and it has (usually) a small ganglion-like enlargement upon it. The action of the infraspinatus and teres minor is to rotate the humerus outwards, and when the arm is raised it draws the humerus downwards and backwards. This muscle is closely connected with the latis- Teres Major. ^.^^^^ ^^^^.^ ^^^^ extends from the inferior angle of the scapula to the humerus, contributing to form the posterior boundary of the axiUa. It arises from the flat surface on the dorsal > See preparation in Museum of St. Bartholomew's Hospital.