INTEHNAL CAROTID ARTERY. 14.4 ganglia—the jugular and tlie petrous (ganglion of Andersch). 'J^he branches given off by the petrous ganglion will be dissected here- after ; at present the student can only make out the branches which this nerve gives off in the neck, namely:— Carotid branches, which surround the internal carotid artery as far as its origin, and communicate with the jDharyngeal branch of the pneumogastric and with the sympathetic. Pharnygeal branches, three or four in number, which form by the side of the middle constrictor of the pharynx, a plexus, the pharyngeal plexus, supplemented by filaments derived from thie pneumogastric, the nervus accessorius, the external laryngeal, and the sympatlietic. Its branches supply the constrictor muscles and the mucous membrane of the phai-ynx, the back of the tongue, and the tonsils. Micscular branches which enter the stylo-pharyngeus m. Tonsillar branches which are given to the soft palate and the fauces, and to the tonsils forming a plexus (circulus tonsillaris). Ungual branches, two in number, which are distributed to the base and lateral aspects of the tongue : one branch turns upwards and is distributed to the papillaj circunivallata?, and tlie mucous membrane of the posterior third of the tongue as far backwards as the epiglottis ; the other passes to the middle of the side of the tongue communicating with the gustatory nerve. The styloid process must now be cut through at its base, and turned forwards with the muscles arising from it. The internal carotid artery will thus be exposed in the cervical region, as far as the carotid canal. The part of the artery contained within the carotid canal will be described hereafter. Intebnaij The internal carotid arterij proceeds from the CujoTiD AnTERY. bifurcatlon of the common carotid at the ujiper border of the thyroid cartilage, and ascends vertically to the base of the skull hij the side of the 'phxirijux, in front of the transverse processes of the three upper cervical vertebrse. It enters the skull through the carotid canal in the temporal bone, runs tortuously by the side of the body of the sphenoid, and terminates in branches which supply the orbit and the brain. It is divided into four por- tions—the cervical, petrous, cavernous, and cerebral. In the cer- vical part of its course, it is situated immediately to the outer side