NERVES OF THE BACK. 289 Eectus Capitis 'I'liis is an interspinal muscle, but smaller than Posticus Minor. the preceding. Arising from the posterior tubercle of the first vertebra, it expands as it ascends, and is inserted into the occipital bone between the inferior curved ridge and the fora- men magnum. The action of the two preceding muscles is to T-aise the head. They are supplied with nerves from the posterior branch of the suboccipital. Obliquus This ay'ises from the spinous process of the second Inferior. cervical vertebra, and is inserted into the transverse process of the first. Its action is to rotate the first upon the second vertebra : in other words, to turn the head round to the same side. It is supplied with a nerve by the great occipital (posterior division of the second cervical), which curves up under its lower border. Obliquus This muscle arises from the transverse process Superior. of the atlas, and, ascending obliquely inwards, is inserted in the interval between the curved ridges of the occipital bone. Its action is to draw the occiput towards the spine. Suboccipital Observe that the obliqui (superior and inferior) Triangle. and the rectus capitis posticus major form what is called the suboccipital triangle. The outer side is formed by the obliquus superior; the inner, by the rectus capitis posticus major ; the lower, by the obliquus inferior. Within this triangle may be seen the arch of the atlas, the vertebral artery lying in a groove on its upper surface, and the posterior occipito-atloid ligament. Be- tween the artery and the bone appears the posterior division of the suboccipital nerve, which here sends branches to the recti postici, the obliqui, and the complexus: that is to say, it su^oplies the muscles which form the triangle, and thei complexus that covers it. Eectus Capitis This small muscle extends between the trans- Lateralis. verse process of the first vertebra and the eminentia jugularis of the occiput; but, since this eminence is the transverse process of the occipital vertebra, the muscle should be considered as an intertransverse one. Its nerve comes from the anterior division of the suboccipital. Nerves of the. The posterior branches of the spinal nerves sup- ply t,he muscles and skin of the back. They pass backwards between the transverse processes of the vertebra, and U