POPLITEAL SPACE. 665 % The muscular fascia covering the space is very strong, and strengthened by numerous transverse fibres. It is pierced by the posterior saphena vein, which passes in to join the popliteal vein. The fascia having been reflected, the muscles and tendons con- stituting the boundaries of the popliteal space are to be cleaned. The boundaries of the space can now be seen to be formed, as before stated, above, by the divergence of the hamstring muscles to reach their respective insertions ; below, by the converging heads of the gastrocnemius: its shape is therefore that of a lozenge. Above, it is bounded on the inner side by the semitendinosus, semimem- branosus, gracilis, and sartorius ; on the outer side, by the biceps ; below, it is bounded, on the inner side by the internal head of the gastrocnemius ; on the outer, by the external head of this muscle and the plantaris. The space is occupied by a quantity of fat, which permits the easy flexion of the knee; and in this fat are found the popliteal vessels and nerves, in the following order :—neai'est to the surface are the nerves ; the artery lies close to the bone, the vein being- superficial to the artery (fig. 155). Geeat Sciatic Along the outer border of the semimembranosus, Kerve. and covered by the long head of the biceps, is the great sciatic nerve, which, after giving oS" branches to the three great flexor muscles and the adductor magnus, divides, about the lower third of the thigh (higher or lower in different subjects), into two large nerves—the peroneal or external popliteal and the internal popliteal. The 2^ei'oneal nerve runs close by the inner side of the tendon of the biceps,' and subsequently in the groove between this muscle and the outer head of the gastrocnemius, towards the head of the fibula. As it passes round the joint it gives off' two articular branches to the outer side of the knee, which accompany the external superior and inferior articular arteries, and a recurrent articular branch, which runs with the recurrent tibial artery to the front of the knee. It supplies also two or three cutaneous branches ' The nerve is, therefore, very liable to be injured in the operation of dividing the outer hamstring. In the diagram, the nerve is not near enough to the tendon, their connections having been severed.