618 CRIBRIFORM FASCIA. lies in front of tlie femoral vessels, is crescent-shaped, with the concave upper end towards the os pubis, and is called the falciform 2Jrocess, whilst its deeper fibres are known as Burns' ligament. The lower horn of the crescent curves under the saphena vein with a well-defined border, and on being traced upwards becomes less well marked until it is gradually lost in the fascia on the inner side of the opening. The upper horn, TIey's ligament,^ arches over the femoral vein, and then descending slightly is continued unin- terruptedly into Gimbernat's ligament—i.e. into that part of the crural arch which is inserted into the linea ilio-pectinea. The upper horn deserves especial attention, because it forms the upper boundary of the aperture through which a femoral hernia takes place; and, being chiefly concerned in the constriction of the rupture, must be divided for its relief. This may be easily ascer- tained by introducing the little finger under the crural arch, on the inner side of the femoral vein—in other words, into the femoral ring (see the arrow in the diagram). Feel how the upper horn of the crescent would gird the neck of a hernia, and that its tension is greatly influenced by the position of the limb ; for if the thigh be bent and brought over to the other side, the tension of all the parts is materially lessened.^ Cribbifobm The cribriform fascia is so called because it is Pascia. perforated with numerous apertures for the passage of the superflcial vessels and lymphatics. It is a thin membranous covering over the saphenous opening, and is prolonged from the outer edge of the opening over the sheath of the femoral vessels, and adheres on the inner side to the fascia lata, over the pectineus muscle. Some anatomists describe this fascia as a portion of the deeper layer of the superficial fascia; others consider it as a thin prolongation of the fascia lata itself across the opening. Its chief ' This upper horn is sometimes called Hcy's ligament, after the surgeon who first drew attention to it. (Observations in Surgery, by W. Hey, F.E.S. London, 1810.) = We must always bear in mind that, though the crural arch and the fascia attached to it have received particular names, they are not, on that account, distinct and separate ; but all are intimately connected, and portions merely of one con- tinuous expansion. Thus all the parts are kept in a condition of mutual tension, which depends very much on the position of the thigh.