693 LIGAMENTS OF THE PELVIS. posticus. The tendon of the peroneus longus is the deepest in the sole. It runs through a groove in the cuboid bone obliquely across the sole towards its insertion into the outer side of the base of the metatarsal bone of the great toe and into the internal cuneiform bone; not infrequently it has a fasciculus of attachment into the second metatarsal bone. It is confined in a strong fibrous sheath, lined throughout by synovial membrane. The tendon of the tibialis posticus may be traced over the internal lateral ligament of the ankle, and thence under the head of the astragalus to the tuberosity of the scaphoid, and the internal cuneiform bones. Prolongations are sent oS" to the cuneiform bones, to the cuboid, to the sustentaculum tali, and to the bases of the second, third, and fourth metatarsal bones. Observe that the tendon contributes to support the head of the astragalus, and that for this purpose it often contains a sesamoid bone. This is one of the many provisions for the maintenance of the arch of the foot. DISSECTION OF THE LIGAMENTS, Ligaments op sacrum is united to the last lumbar ver- THE Pelvis with tebra in the same manner as one vertebra is to THE Fifth Lumbab another—viz., by the prolongation of the anterior Vebtebra. posterior common ligaments, the interver- tebral fibro-cartilage, the ligamenta subflava, supra- and inter- spinous ligaments, and the capsular ligaments. The student should, therefore, refer to the description of the ligaments of the spine (p. 295). The ilio-lumhar ligament is very strong, and extends directly outwards from the tip of the transverse process of the last lumbar vertebra to the crest of the ilium (fig. 162). The lumbosacral ligament varies much in its extent and attach- ment, and passes from the anterior and lower border of the trans- verse process of the fifth lumbar vertebra to the lateral part of the base of the sacrum ; the fibres as they descend obliquely out- wards become frayed out, joining in part the anterior sacro-iliac ligament.