60 THIRD NERVE. closely adherent to, the ophthalmic artery. It is somewhat quadri- lateral in shape, and receives its sensory or long root from the nasal nerve, which joins its posterior superior angle; its motor or short root, from the branch of the third nerve, going to the inferior oblique, which enters its posterior inferior angle ; and its sumpa- thetic root from the cavernous plexus which joins it at its posterior border, or in conjunction with its sensory root. The ganglion, thus furnished with motor, sensory and sympathetic roots, gives off the sltort dliarij nerres. These, from eight to twelve in number, issue from the anterior upper and lower angles of the ganglion, usually four or five from the upper, the remainder from the lower. They run very tortuously with the optic nerve, pass through the back of the sclerotic coat, where they are joined by the long ciliary (from the nasal), and are distributed to the iris and the ciliary muscle. Since the ciliarv nerves derive their motor influence from the third nerve, the iris must lose its power of contraction when this nerve is paralysed. Third Neeve, The third nerve passes forwards in the outer Motor Oculi. wall of the cavernous sinus, and here receives one or two filaments from the cavernous plexus of the sympathetic. Just before it enters the inner end of the sphenoidal fissure it divides into two branches, both of which pass between the two heads of origin of the external rectus, separated from each other by the nasal nerve. The upper and smaller division has been already traced into the superior rectus and levator palpebrte. The lotver division after a short course divides into three branches, one passing inwards under the optic nerve to supply the internal rectus, another passes to the inferior rectus, and a third runs along the floor of the orbit to the inferior oblique (fig. 19). This last-named branch sends a small twig upwards to the lenticular ganglion, mentioned in the description of this ganglion, and another to the inferior rectus. What is the result of paralysis of the third nerve ? Falling of the upper eyelid (ptosis), external squint, dilatation and immobility of the pupil. Sixth Neeve, This nerve lies in the inner wall of the cavernous ABDUCKN8. sluus cxtemal to the internal carotid artery, passes