674 MUSCLES OF THE CALF. To expose the muscles of the calf, reflect the muscular fascia b\- incisions corresponding to those made through the skin. Muscles of The great flexor muscle of the foot consists of THE Calf. tvfo portions: the superficial one, called the gas- trocnemius, arises from the lower end of the femur; the deep one, called the soleus, arises from the tibia and fibula. They are attached to one thick tendon, called the tendo Achillis, which is inserted into the os calcis. This muscle arises by two strong tendinous heads from the back of the condyles of the femur (fig. 155). The inner head is the larger, longer, and more muscular, and arises from a depression at the upper and back part of the internal condyle, and, for a short distance, by fleshy fibres from the line leading from the linea aspera to the internal condyle ; the outer head from the back and upper part of the external condyle above the popliteus, and also from the line leading to the linea aspera. The two parts of the muscle descend, distinct from each other, and form the two bellies of the calf, of which the inner is rather the lower. Both terminate, rather below the middle of the leg, on the broad commencement of the tendo Achillis. The gastrocnemius should be divided transversely near its attachment to the tendo Achillis, and reflected upwards from the subjacent soleus, as high as its origin. By this proceeding you observe that the contiguous surfaces of the muscles are covered by a glistening tendon, which receives the insertion of their fibres, and transmits their collected force to the tendo Achillis. Observe also the large sural vessels and nerves (branches of the popliteal) which enter the mesial aspect of each head of the muscle. To facilitate the play of the inner tendon over the condyle, there is a bursa, which generally communicates with the knee-joint; and in the substance of the outer tendon is commonly found a small piece of fibro-cartilage. Lastly, between the gastro- cnemius and soleus is the tendon of the plantaris. This small muscle ^ arises from the rough line Plantaeis. leading from the linea aspera to the outer condyle > This is the representative of the palmaris longus of the forearm. In man it is lost on the calcaneum, but in monkeys, who have prehensile feet, it is the