719 ARTERIES OF THE BRAIN. carotid, runs outAvards deeply within the fissure of Sylvius, and divides into many branches distributed to the anterior and middle lobes. Near its origin it gives off a number of small arteries, which pierce the locus perforatus anticus to supply the corpus striatum. c. The posterior communicating artery, unequal in size usually on the two sides, proceeds directly backwards to join the posterior cerebral; thus establishing at the base of the brain the free arterial inosculation called the circle of Willis. d. The anterior choroid artery, a small branch of the internal carotid, arises external to the posterior communicating artery. It runs back- wards, and enters the fissure at the bottom of the middle horn of the lateral ventricle, to terminate in the choroid plexus of that cavity. It supplies, in addition, the hippocampus major and the corpus fimbriatum. Vektebeal This artery, a branch of the subclavian in the Artery. first part of its course, enters the foramen in the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra, and ascends through the transverse processes of the cervical vertebra. It then winds backwards along the arch of the atlas, and enters the skull through the foramen by perforating the posterior occipito-atlantal ligament and the dura mater. It then curves round the medulla oblongata between the hypoglossal nerve and the anterior root of the first cervical nerve. At the lower border of the pons Varolii the two arteries unite to form a single trunk—the basilar—which is lodged in the groove on the middle of the pons, and bifurcates at its upper border into the posterior cerebral arteries. Each vertebral artery, before joining its fellow, gives 03":— a. Lateral spinal branches, which enter the spinal canal, to supply the spinal cord and its membranes, and the bodies of the cervical vertebrte. h. Muscular branches to the deep muscles of the neck, which ana- stomose -svith the occipital and deep cervical arteries. c. A 2}osterior meningeal branch, distributed to the posterior fossa of the skull. d. Anterior and posterior spinal arteries, which are given off im- mediately before the vertebral arteries join to form the basilar, run along the median fissures of the front and the back surfaces of the spinal cord, and anastomose with the spinal branches of the ascending- cen'ical arteries.