332 BRACHIAL ARTERY. action is to bend the forearm. Its nerves come from tlie musculo- cutaneous, and it usually receives in addition a small branch from the musculo-spiral. Now examine the course and relations of the brachial vessels and nerves. CoTJBSE AND Ee- The brachial artery—the continuation of the LATioNs OF THE axlUary—takes its name at the lower border of BuACHiAi Artery, ^i-^q ^jej-gg major. It runs down the anterior and the inner side of the arm, along the inner border of the coraco- brachialis and biceps, to about an inch below the elbow, where it divides, near the coronoid process of the ulna, into the radial and ulnar arteries. Thus its direction corresponds with a line drawn from the deepest part of the axilla to the middle point between the condyles of the humerus. In the upper part of its course it lies on the long and inner heads of the triceps (from the long head it is separated by the musculo-spiral nerve and superior profunda artery) ; in the middle, it lies on the tendon of the coraco-brachialis; in the lower part, on the brachialis anticus. In front of the artery are the internal cutaneous nerve, the median basilic and basilic veins; the median nerve, which crosses obliquely over the ai'tery, being on its outer side near the axilla, and on its inner side near the elbow ; and lastly, .the artery is more or less overlapped, in the first part of its course, by the coraco- brachialis, lower down by the fleshy belly of the biceps; the inner borders of these muscles, in their respective situations, being the best guides to the artery. On the outer side of the artery are, the median nerve, the coraco- brachialis, and biceps. On the inner side are, at first, the ulnar nerve, the internal cutaneous nerves ; and, below, the median nerve. The artery is accompanied by two veins (venoi comites) and the median nerve, all of which are invested in a common sheath of fascia. The ulnar nerve runs along the inner side of the artery as far as the middle of the arm. Below this point, the nerve leaves the