POPLITEAL VEIN. 078 joint a network of vessels, which anastomose, superiorly, with the de- scending branch of the external circumflex and the anastomotica magna ; inferiorly, with the anterior tibial recurrent; and also among them- selves. It is mainly through these chamiels tliat the collateral circula- tion is established in the leg after ligature of the superficial femoral. The sural arteries proceed one to each head of the gastrocnemius, and are proportionate in size to the muscle ; one or two branches are distributed to the soleus. These arteries are accompanied by branches of the internal popliteal nerve for the supply of the muscles. The superior muscular branches supply the vasti and hamstring muscles, and inosculate with the perforating and articular arteries. Cutaneous arteries pass down between the gastrocnemius and the skin supplying the integument of the calf, as far as the middle of the leg. PoPLiTEAii This vein is formed by the junction of the venee VErN. comites of the anterior and posterior tibial arteries, and is situated superficial to the artery. It crosses obliquely from the inner to the outer side of the artery, and is continued upwards as the femoral. It receives in the popliteal space the short saphena, the articular, and sural veins. It is usually provided with four valves. The insertion of the tendon of the semi-membranosus into the head of the tibia, and its several connections (described p. 670), should now be fully examined. This triangular muscle arises within the capsule PopLiTEus. ^-^^ knee-joint, from a depression on the outside of the external condyle, and from the posterior ligament of the knee, by a thick tendon, which runs beneath the external lateral ligament and the tendon of the biceps. The muscular fibres gradually spread out, and are inserted into the triangular surface of the tibia above the soleal ridge on the bone, and into the aponeurotic expansion covering the muscle. It is supplied by a branch of the internal popliteal nerve which enters its deep surface. Its action is to flex the leg, and then to rotate the tibia inwards. The tendon plays over the articulation between the tibia and fibula ; and a bursa intervenes, which generally communicates by a wide opening with the knee-joint. The tendinous origin grooves