.162 MEDIASTINA. The spaces called anterior and x'osterior mediadina, formed by the separation of the pleurae, will be described further on. In health the internal surface of the pleura is smooth, polished, and lubricated by moisture sufficient to facilitate the sliding of the lung.' When this surface is thickened and roughened by inflammation, the moving lung produces a friction sound. When the pleural sac is distended by serum, it constitutes hydro-thorax; when by pus, empyema; when by air, pneumo-thorax; when by blood, liaemo-thorax. Introduce your hand into the pleural sac, and ascertain that the reflection of the pleura on to the diaphragm corresponds with an imaginary line commencing at the lower part of the sternum, and sloping along the cartilages of the successive ribs down to the lower border of the last rib. Supposing a ball to lodge in the pleural sac, it might fall upon the dome of the diaphragm, and roU down to the lowest part of the pleural cavity. The place, therefore, to extract it, would be in the back, at the eleventh intercostal space. This operation has been done during life with success. If a transverse section were made through the chest (see fig. 38), you would observe that as the pleurge nowhere come into actual contact, a space is left between them extending from the sternum to the spine, and which is larger in the middle than in front or behind. This interval is called by anatomists the m- terpleural space or the mediastinum, and for convenience sake is subdivided into three parts—an anterior, middle, and posterior mediastinum. Mediastina, mediastina are the spaces which the two Anterior, Middle pleural sacs leave between them in the antero- AND Posterior. posterior plane of the chest, and which contain all the thoracic viscera except the lungs. There is an anterior, a middle, and a posterior mediastinum. To put these spaces in the tendon of the diaphragm. As it passes dowiwards it embraces the root of the lung, and supports it in its proper position. This band has been described as the ' suspensory ligament of the diaphragm,' by Teutleben. ' The pleura costaUs is covered with flattened epithelial cells; the pleura pulmonalis with polyhedral granular cells. (Klein.)