492 EXTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. with the lateral sacral a. ; by the spermatic with the deferential, cremasteric, external pudic and superficial perineal arteries; by the superior hasmorrhoidal with the middle and inferior hasmor- rhoidal a.; by the lower intercostals with the epigastric a. (super- ficial and deep); and by the middle and the inferior hasmorrhoidal, the pudic and its branches, and the vesical arteries communicating in the middle line with the corresponding branches of the opposite side. External The external iliac artery, the continuation of the Iliac Artery. preceding artery, passes along the brim of the pelvis, first on the inner side, and then in front of the psoas. Lower down it passes under the crural arch, midway between the anterior superior spine of the ilium and the symphysis pubis, where it takes the name of femoral. The artery has in front of it, the peritoneum, the intestines, and a sheath derived from the iliac fascia investing the artery and the vein ; it has also the spermatic vessels in front, and it is crossed by a branch of the genito-crural nerve, the deep circumflexa ilii vein and the vas deferens ; beliind, it is in relation with the psoas magnus and corresponding vein, which lies also on the inner side of the artery; the iliac fascia also lies behind the vessels, but a thin layer of fascia derived from it is continued over them; internally, it has the corresponding vein, and low down towards Poupart's ligament, the vas deferens; externally, it has the psoas magnus and the iliac fascia. In front of, and on the inner side of the artery are a chain of lymphatic glands. The branches given off by this artery are :— a. Small h'anches to the psoas and lymphatic glands. h. The deep epigastric, already described (p. 437). c. The deep circumflexa ilii, which arises from the outer side of the artery, just above the crural arch, and, ascending upwards towards the anterior superior spine of the ilium in a sheath formed by the fascia Uiaca, runs along the inner aspect of the iliac crest, and subsequently perforates the transversalis muscle.^ In the dis- section of the abdominal muscles (p. 430), the continuation of it was seen skirting the crest of the ilium between the internal oblique and the transversalis, and sending a branch upwards ' The course of this artery should be borne in mind in opening iliac abscesses.