BRANCHES OF THE AliDOMINAL AOJiTA. •1.64 Gastro-hepatic This double fold passes from the transverse OB Lessek Omen- fissure on the under surface of the liver to the upper curve of the stomach. It is composed of two layers, and between them are the portal vein and hepatic artery with the nerves going to the liver, and the hepatic duct and lymphatics coming from it. The right border of this fold is free, and forms the anterior rounded margin of a constriction, called the fora/men of Winslow, which leads into the lesser cavity of the peritoneum: its left border passes on to the oesophagus. In this fold the common bile duct lies to the right, the hepatic artery to the left, and the vena portte behind and between them. If now the finger be introduced behind the right border, it passes through the foramen of Winslow into the lesser cavity of the peritoneum. Gasteo- This fold proceeds from the great end of the SPLENIC Omen- stomach to the spleen, and is continuous below with the great omentum. It contains between its layers the branches, vasa h-evia, which proceed ffom the splenic artery to the great end of the stomach. The reflections of the peritoneum from the iGAMENTs. abdominal walls to the liver, the spleen, the bladder, and uterus, and constituting their ligaments, have been, or will be, described with the respective viscera. Branches of Our next object should be the examination of THE AnuoMiNAL tlio ai'tcrles which supply the viscera. The ahclo- A-oETA. minal aorta enters the abdomen between the pillars of the diaphragm in front of the last dorsal vertebra, and then, descending a little to the left of the spine, divides on the body of the fourth lumbar vertebra, a little to the left of the middle line, into the two common Hiac arteries. The relations of the aorta cannot at present be sufiiciently made out, so that this will be described later on. In its course it gives off its branches in the following order (fig. 108) :— 1. The ]}hrenic, for the supply of the diajDhragm. 2. The coeliac axis, a short thick trunk, which immediately subdivides into three branches for the supply of the stomach, the liver, and the spleen.