210 THE HEART. the diagram. The pulmonary ring is on the highest level, and nearest to the sternum ; below it, is the aortic ring lying between and in front of the auriculo-ventricular rings, which are on the lowest level. Attachjient of fibrous rings at the arterial orifices present THE Lakge Arte- three festoons with their concavities directed up- KiEs TO THE wards. These give attachment, above, to the Ventbicles. middle coat of the artery; below, to the muscular fibres of the ventricles ; and, internally, to the fibrous tissue of the valves. The vessels are also connected to the heart by the serous layer of the pericardium, and by a continuation of the lining membrane of the ventricle. ^ This, the visceral layer of the pericardium, closely invests the external surface of the heart, and presents the usual appearances of a visceral serous membrane : having externally a layer of polygonal epithelial cells which rest upon a connective tissue layer, intermingled with elastic tissue. Beneath this layer there exists the subserous areolar tissue stratum which is closely connected with the muscular structure of the heart (myocardium), and in which the vessels, nerves, and lymphatics lie imbedded in more or less fat. This smooth membrane lining the cavities of the heart resembles the visceral layer of the peri- cardium, and is continuous with the inner coat of the blood- vessels. It may be easily stripped off, and is thin and semi- transparent, thicker in the left than in the right cavities, thickest of all in the left auricle. It consists of three layers: 1, a layer of flattened polygonal cells, resting upon, 2, a layer of con- nective tissue in which are some elastic fibres resembling the fenestrated coat of an artery; and, 3, a thin layer of connective tissue. The muscular fibres of the heart are of the striped variety, although they are less well marked and regular than in voluntary muscular fibres: the strite are both transverse and longitudinal. The fibres are smaller than in the voluntary kind, have a well marked single nucleus, are branched, and are destitute of sarco- lemma.