507 ISCHIO-KECTAL FOSSiE. Ijrane, but also the linear interval between the external and internal spkincters.^ Tlie skin should be reflected, by making an in- cision along the raphe, round the margin of the anus to the coccyx. Two others must be made on each side at light angles to the first, the one at the upper, and the other at the lower end of it. The skin of the perineum must then be reflected ScBcuTANEous outwards with much care, otherwise the superficial Tissue. sphincter ani may be reflected with the skin. In reflecting the skin, notice the characters of the subcutaneous struc- ture.- Its characters alter in adaptation to the exigencies of each part. On the scrotum the fat constituent of the tissue is entirely absent; while the connective tissue element is most abundant, and during life elastic and contractile. But, towards the deeper part Fat in Ischio- of the anus, the fat accu.mulates more and more, BECTAL Fossa:. aud on either side of the rectum it is found in the shape of large masses, filling up what would otherwise be two deep hollows in this situation—namely, the iscliio-rectal fossce. These fossae are pyramidal, with their bases towards the skin, and their apices at the divergence of the obturator internus and levator ani. They are about two inches in depth, and much deeper posteriorly than in front. This accumulation of fat on each side of the anus permits the easy distension and contraction of the lower end of the bowel during and after the passage of the faeces. Over the tuberosities of the ischia are large masses of fat, separated by tough, fibrous septa, passing from the skin to the bone, so as to make an elastic padding to sit upon. Occasionally, too, there are one or more large hursce, interposed between this padding and the bone. So much respecting the general characters of the subcutaneous tissue of the perineum. Some anatomists describe it as consisting of three, four, or even more layers, but in nature we do not find it ' Hilton, Lcchires on Best and Pain, p. 280. - The probable thickness of this subcutaneous tissue is a point which ought to be determined by the lithotomist in making his first incision. Its great thickness in some cases explains the depth to which the surgeon has to cut in letting out pus from the ischio-rectal fossa.