594 STRUCTURE OF THE KIDNEY. Fig. 141. (I. Artery. V. Vein, or efferent vessel c, Cajjsule. d. Urinary tube. The interlobular ao'teries pass off at riglit angles between the medullary rays, and then run amongst the convoluted tubes, some to enter the Malpighian capsules, and others to reach the surface and supply the capsule, ending in the stellate veins beneath the capsule. The arteriole which passes to the Malpighian capsule is termed the afferent vessel, and, entering the dilated extremity of the uriniferous tube, breaks up into a number of convoluted capillarj^ ves- sels, constituting the glomerulus of Malpighi. The blood is returned from the glomerulus by a small efferent vein, which emerges from the capsule close to the entrance of the artery. This vein, after a short course, breaks up, like an artery, into a dense network of capillaries, which ramify over the convoluted tubules. Some of the veins from the lower glomeruli break up into straight vessels, and then pass from the medullary rays into the pyramid (fig. 141). The arteriolce reetce are destined for the supply of the Malpi- ghian pyramids, entering theni at their bases, and then pass down- wards to their apices, where they join the venoiis plexuses. The Malj.n(j1dan bodies are small red granular masses about Y^-Q-th of an inch in diameter, and are only found in the cortical substance. Each is composed of the dilated commencement of a*] uriniferous tube forming the Malpighian caiisule, containing within it a coil of small blood-vessels called the Malpighian tuft or glomer- ulus. The capsule is composed of a homogeneous membrane, and is pierced by a small artery, afferent vessel, which enters it oppo- site the commencement of the urinary tubule. In the capsule the artery breaks up into a coil of minute blood-vessels, glomeridns, and returns its blood by a vein, efferent vessel, which emerges from the capsule close to where the artery entered (fig. 141). The capillary plexus within the capsule is surrounded by the epithe- lium Lining the interior of the capsule.• ' Histologists differ with respect to the disposition of the epithelium over the glomerulus : some assert that it has no epithelial covering, but that i-t hangs loose