511 ACCELERATOR URINiE. inner side of the tuber iscliii. Though the main trunk cannot be seen, it can be easily felt by pressing the finger against the bone. The artery comes into view a little above the level of the anus, passes up usually in front of the transversus perinei muscle, and gets to the perineal triangle lying to the inner side of the erector penis. It distributes branches to all the muscles, and is finally lost on the scrotum. The only named branch is called transversalis perinei (fig. 119). This is given ofi" near the base of the triangle, and runs transversely inwards with the transversus perinei muscle towards the central tendon of the perineum, where it anastomoses with its fellow. It is necessarily divided in the first incision in lithotomy, and deserves attention, because it is sometimes of con- siderable size. The artery is accompanied by two veins, which are frequently dilated and tortuous, especially in diseased conditions of the scrotum. The nerves, two in number, are derived from the internal pudic, follow the course of their corresponding arteries, and give ofi" similar branches. They not only supply the skin of the perineum and scrotum, but each of the perineal muscles. AccEUEKATOB Thls muscle embraces the bulb of the urethra, IJKiNiE. and is composed of two lateral symmetrical halves. It arises from a fibrous median raphe beneath the bulb, and from the tendinous centre of the perineum. Starting from this origin, the fibres diverge, and are inserted as follows :—The upper ones proceed on either side round the corpus cavernosum penis, like the branches of the letter V, and are fixed on its dorsal surface, in front of the erector penis, and expanding also into a broad apo- neurosis, which covers the dorsal vessels of the penis; the middle completely embrace the bulb and adjacent part of the corpus spongiosum like a ring, and meet in an aponeurosis on the upper surface of the urethra; the loiuer are fixed to the anterior surface of the deep perineal fascia, often called the triangular ligament (fig. 120).i Thus, the entire muscle acts as a powerful compressor of the ' This muscle is called also the cjaculator urina or the hiMo-caveriiosns.