153 SYMPATHETIC NERVE IN THE NECK. Here the sympathetic is seen to communicate with the third, the fourth, and the ophthalmic branch of the lifth and sixth cranial nerves, and with the ophthalmic ganglion. Lastly, from both these plexuses secondary plexuses proceed, of which the minute filaments ramify on, and supply the coats of, the terminal branches of the internal carotid. 6. The lower branch descends and joins the middle cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. c. The external branches are numerous, and connect the ganglion with the ganglion of the pneumogastric and hypoglossal nerves, and with the four upper cervical spinal nerves. A small twig also joins the petrosal ganglion of the giosso-pharyngeal and the upper ganglion of the pneumogastric in the foramen jugulare. d. The internal branches are distributed to the pharynx, larynx, and the heart. The pharyngeal branches join the pharyngeal plexus on the middle constrictor of the jjliarynx : the laryngeal join the superior laryngeal nerve ; the cardiac nerves, one or more in number—superior cardiac—descend behind the sheath of the carotid in front of the inferior thyroid ai-tery and recui'rent laryngeal nerve, and, entering the chest, join the superficial and deep cardiac plexuses. e. The anterior brandies lie in front of the external carotid artery and ramify around this vessel and its branches, forming the various plexuses, and named, on account of their delicacy, the nervi molles. In some of these plexuses are occasionally seen several ganglia, the in- tercarotic,^ lingual, temporal, and pharyngeal ganglia. They are con- nected with the several ganglia about the head and neck ; namely, the ophthalmic, spheno-palatine, otic, aiid submaxillary. The middle cervical gancjlion, the smallest of the three ganglia, is something less than a barleycorn in size. It is situated behind the carotid sheath, about the fifth or sixth cervical vertebra, on or near the inferior thyroid artery. a. It is connected by branches with the superior ganglion above, and with the inferior cervical ganglion below. b. Its external branches usually pass outwards to join the fifth and sixth cervical spinal nerves. c. Its internal branches are distributed to the thyroid body and the heart. The branches to the thyroid body accompany the inferior thyroid ' Situated in the angle at the bifurcation of the common carotid into the external and internal carotid arteries; it corresponds in structure with the coccygeal gland.