PNEUMOGASTRIC NERVE. 146 I c. Meningeal branches, which supply the dura mater ; passing through the foramen lacerum medium, the anterior condylar foramen, and the foramen jugulare with the internal jugular vein. Pneumogastmc The imeumogastric nerve is the tenth cranial Nekve. nerve, and has the longest course of all the cerebral nerves. It arises from the medulla oblongata by a series of roots, from twelve to fifteen in number, from the front of the restiform body. It passes out of the skull in a common sheath of dura mater and arachnoid, with the nervus accessorius through the foramen jugulare. Within the foramen jugulare a small ganglion—ganglion of the root (Arnold's ganglion)—about two lines in length, is situated upon the pneumogastric nerve, and is joined by a branch from the nervus accessorius. This ganglion will be described hereafter. About half an inch below the preceding the pneumogastric nerve swells out, and forms a second ganglion—ganglion of the trunh— (inferior ganglion), of a reddish-grey colour. This ganglion occu- pies about an inch of the nerve, but does not involve the whole of its fibres; the branch from the spinal accessory joining the pneumo- gastric below the ganglion. It is united to the hypoglossal nerve, from which it receives filaments: it also receives filaments from the first and second spinal nerves, and from the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. Thus, the pneumogastric, at its origin probably a nerve of sensation only, becomes, in consequence of the connecting filaments from these various branches, a compound nerve, and in all respects analogous to a spinal nerve. Leaving the skull at the foramen jugulare, the nerve descends in front of the cervical vertebra, lying successively upon the rectus capitis anticus major and the longus colli. In the upper part of the neck it is situated, lying in the same sheath, between the in- ternal carotid artery and the internal jugular vein; lower down, it lies between and behind the common carotid and the internal jugular vein. It enters the chest, on the right side, crossing in front of the first j)art of the subclavian artery, nearly at a right angle ; on the left, running nearly parallel w*ith it. In tlieir course through the chest, the pneumogastric nerves