817 MUSCLES OF THE PINNA. The cartilage is a single, uneven plate of fibro-cartilage, which presents all the irregularities of the external ear. The cartilage is incomplete, for there is a deficiency behind the tragus at the bottom of the concha, which is filled up with fibrous tissue. It has a tubular prolongation inwards, which forms the external part of the meatus auditorius externus. The cartilage presents several fissures (fissures of Santorini) at the anterior part of the tubular prolongation, which are completed by fibrous tissue. In the front part of the pinna, where the helix makes its first bend, is a conical projection of cartilage, termed the process of the helix. The lobule, attached to the lower part of the pinna, is a rounded projection formed of fat and connective tissue; it is this which enlarges with age and obesity of the subject. ^ The ligaments are : the anterior liqament, broad LlGAJIENTS. ° . J ^ and strong, which passes from the process of the helix to the root of the zygoma; the posterior ligament, which extends from the cranial surface of the concha to the mastoid process of the temporal bone. There are also intrinsic ligaments which bridge over and fill up the deficiencies in the pinna. Muscles of The muscles which move the cartilage of the THE Prs-xA. gar as a whole, have been described (page 3). Other small muscles extend from one part of the cartilage to an- other ; but they are so indistinct that, unless the subject be very muscular, it is difficult to make them out. The following six— four on the front of the auricle and two behind it—are usually described:— (ci) The musculus major helicis runs vertically along the front margin of the helix: it arises below from the process of the helix, and is inserted into the curve of the helix as it passes backwards. (b) The musculus minw helicis, an oblique muscle, lies over that part of the helix which is connected with the concha. (c) The musculus tragicus lies vertically over the outer surface of the tragus. (cZ) The musculus antitragicus passes transversely from the anti- tragus to the lower part of the tail-like process of the helix behind the lobule. 3g