148 BRANCHES OF THE PNEUMOGASTKIC NERVE. tlie spinal accessory, descends either in front of, or behind the internal carotid. The nerve, after passing to the inner side of the internal carotid, divides into branches, which with the other fila- ments (described p. Id-l) upon the middle constrictor muscle form the pltart/ngecd plextis. From this plexus branches are distributed to the muscles and the mucous membrane of the pharynx.' c. The superior laryngeal, derived from the middle of the ganglion of the trunk, descends behind the internal carotid, and divides into two branches, the internal and the external laryngeal. The internal laryngeal passes to the inter-\-al between the os liyoides and the thyroid cai-tilage, and enters the larynx (Avith the superior laryngeal a.), through the thyro-hyoid membrane, to be distributed, as a nerve of sensation, to the mucous membrane of the larynx and epi- glottis. The external laryngeal, the smaller, gives off some branches to the pharyngeal plexus, the infei'ior constrictor, and tlie thyroid body, and then descends by the side of the laryiTx beneath the depressors of the OS hyoides to supply the crico-thyroid muscle : it communicates Avith the superior cardiac nerve of the sympatlietic. d. The cervical cardiac hranches descend behind the sheath of the carotid artery to the cardiac plexus. The itpjier branches, one or two in number, are small, and proceed from the ganglion of the trunk; they join the cardiac branches of the sympathetic and the deep cardiac plexus; the lower comes from the trunk of the pneumogastric before it enters the chest. Subsequently, the right lower cardiac nerve descends by the side of the innominate artery to join the deep cardiac plexus; the left passes over the arch of the aorta to join the superficial cardiac plexus. e. The inferior or recurrent laryngeal nerve turns, on the right side, under the subclavian artery (p. 113), and ascends obliquely inwards to the larynx behind the common carotid and the inferior thyroid arteries : it lies subsequently in the groove between the oesophagus and the trachea. On the left side, it turns under the arch of the aorta, just on the outer side of the remains of the ductus arteriosus; after which it runs up between the trachea and ' A branch from the plexus is described by Luschka as receiving filaments from the pharyngeal branches of the glosso-pharyngeal and pneumogastric nerves, and joining with the hypoglossal as it winds round the occipital artery.