822 OSSICDLA AUDITUS. Fig. 202. THE OSSICLES OF THE EIGHT TYIIPAHUM. A. Malleus. B. Incus. to each other by perfect joints, and are so placed that the chain somewhat resembles the letter Z. Their use is to transmit the vibrations of the membrana tympani to the membrane of the fenestra ovalis, and, through it, to the fluid contained within the vestibule. But they have another use, which would be incompatible with a single bone—namely, to permit the tightening and relaxation of the membrane, and thus adapt it either to resist the impulse of a very loud sound, or to favour a more gentle one. The malleus (fig. 202, a) or hammer bone, C. stapes. It lies horizontally • ^ e , t i • ■, . find forms a right angle with COUSlStS Ot 811 UJ)per part Or /ieClCt, whlch IS the long process of the incus, suspended from the roof of the tympanum by the suspensory ligament, and articulates posteriorly with the incus. Below the head is a narrow constriction, the nech, which is con- tinued on into a long, somewhat curved, tapering process, the mamibrnnn or handle : it is nearly vertical, and is attached along its whole length to the upper half of the membrana tympani, passing between its inner and middle layers. The processus gracilis projects at a right angle below the neck, runs into the Glaserian fissure, and receives the insertion of the lasator tympani. The processus hrevis is a stunted projection, situated at the junction of the processus gracilis and manubrium, and touches the membrana tymjDani; it receives the insertion of the tensor tympani. The incus, or anvil bone (fig. 202, b), is shaped like a tooth, with two unequal widely separated fangs. Its broad part or body pre- sents a concavo-convex articulation in front for the head of the malleus; its long process runs nearly parallel with the handle of the malleus, and articulates with the stapes through the intervention of a small bone, the os orhicidare, which, in adult life, forms part of the long process, but in fcetal life is a separate bone; its sliort process is directed horizontally backwards, and its point is fixed m a small hollow at the commencement of the mastoid cells. The stapes, or stirrup bone (fig. 202, c), lies horizontally. Its head articulates with the long process of the incus. Below the head is a constriction, the nech, which receives at its posterior part