656 GLUTEI MUSCLES. for the first time is almost sure to injure the subjacent parts. The numerous vessels which enter its under surface must be divided*before the muscle can be reflected. This having been accomplished, the following objects will be exposed :— The muscle covering the ilium is the gluteus medius. At the posterior border of this are the several objects which emerge from the pelvis through the great sciatic notch—namely, the pyriformis muscle, above which is the trunk of the gluteal vessels and nerve, and below which are the greater and lesser sciatic nerves, the arteria comes nervi ischiatici, the long pudendal nerve, the sciatic vessels, the pudic vessels and nerve, the nerve to the obturator internus, and the coccygeus. Coming through the lesser sciatic notch, is the tendon of the obturator internus, and attached to it are the gemelli muscles, one above, the other below it. Ex- tending from the tuber ischii transversely outwards to the great trochanter is the quadratus femoris, and, below this, is seen the upper part of the adductor magnus. The origins of the semi-mem- branosus, biceps, semi-tendinosus, and of the adductor magnus, from the tuber ischii, are also seen; as well as the great sacro- sciatic ligament, which passes upwards to the sacrum, and is pierced by the coccygeal branch of the sciatic artery. The great trochanter is exposed, together with a small portion of the vastus externus; and where the tendon of the gluteus maximus plays over the trochanter major, there is a large bursa, simple or multi- locular. Lastly, the side of the sacrum, the coccyx, part of the crest of the ilium, the tuberosity of the ischium, are brought into view. Gluteus This muscle, covered behind by the gluteus Medius. maximus, and in front by the fascia lata, arises from the surface of the ilium, between the crest and the upper curved line; also from the strong fascia which covers it towards the front. The fibres converge to a tendon, which is inserted into the oblique line on the upper and outer surface of the great tro- chanter: some of the anterior fibres—in immediate connection with the tensor fascias—terminate on the aponeurosis of the thigh. Between its insertion and the bone is a bursa. Reflect the gluteus medius to see the third gluteal muscle.