516 PARTS DIVIDED IN LATERAL LITHOTOMY. to this ligament, it is tHis which prevents the urine from travelling into the pelvis. Its connection with the superficial perineal fascia prevents the urine from getting into the ischio-rectal fossae: nor can the urine make its way into the thighs. The only outlet for it is into the connective tissue of the scrotum and penis. 4. When suppuration or extravasation of urine takes place behind the ligament, the pus is pent up and should be speedily let out; if not, it may find its way into the connective tissue of the pelvis, and may burst into the urethra or the rectum. 5. The ligament is partially cut through in lithotomy. Paets DIVIDED The parts divided in the lateral operation of IN Lateral lithotomy are : the skin, the superficial fascia, the Lithotomy. transverse perineal muscle, vessels and nerve, the inferior hasmorrhoidal vessels and nerves, the inferior fibres of the accelerator urinas, the anterior fibres of the levator ani, the tri- angular ligament (anterior layer), the compressor urethras, the membranous and prostatic parts of the urethra, and a small portion of the prostate. Parts to be The incision in lateral lithotomy should not AVOIDED. be made too far forwards, for fear of wounding the artery of the bulb; nor too far inwards, for fear of injuring the rectum; nor too far outwards, for fear of cutting the pudic artery. The anterior layer of the triangular ligament Strcctckes raust now be cut awav to see what lies between BETWEEN THE '-^ j Layers of the its two layers. These parts are shown in fig. 122 ; TRiANGDLAn namely: 1, the membranous part of the urethra, LiGAjiENT. surrounded by, 2, the compressor urethrge muscle; 3, Cowper's glands and their ducts; 4, the pudic artery and its branch, the artery of the bulb; the artery of the crus and the dorsal artery of the penis being given off in front of the anterior layer; 5, the pudic nerve and its branches; 6, the dorsal vein of the penis ; 7, the subpubic ligament. To obtain the best perineal view of the com- DissECTioN. pressor urethra3 muscle, cut through the spongy part of the urethra about three inches above the end of the bulb, and dissect it from the corpus cavernosum. Thus, the upper fibres