CALCANEO-SCAPHOID LIGAMENTS. 710 whicli descends vertically in tlie interosseous canal, and is the principal bond of nnion between the two bones. AsTEAGALo- The anterior surface of the astragalus is broadly SCAPHOID convex, fitting into the concave surface of the Ligament. scaphoid bone. Superiorly the dorsal surfaces of the two bones are connected by a broad membranous ligament, asf/i-a- galo-scapJioid, which passes obliquely across, blending externally with the external calcaneo-scaphoid, and below with the inferior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament. Caloanbo- skeleton the head of the astragalus arti- scAPHorD culates in front with the scaphoid, but the lower Ligaments. p^^t of it is unsupported. This interval is bridged over by a very strong and slightly elastic ligament, which extends from the os calcis to the scaphoid (fig. 167) ; this is the inferior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament. The inferior calccmeo-sca'plwid ligament is thick and strong, and passes horizontally forwards and inwards from the sustentaculum tali to the plantar surface of the scaphoid, where it is connected with the tendon of the tibialis posticus, and, superiorly, with the astragalo-scaphoid ligament. Thus the os calcis, scaphoid, and this ligament form a complete socket for the head of the astragalus; it is this joint, chiefly, which permits the abduction and adduction of the foot. In chronic disease of the ankle-joint, leading to much impairment of movement at the joint, the motion at the astragalo-scaphoid articulation is so great as to take the place of the ankle-joint. This ligament being slightly elastic, allows the keystone of the arch (the astragalus) a play, which is of great service in preventing concussion of the body. Whenever this ligament yields, the head of the astragalus falls, and the individual becomes gradually flat-footed. In this yielding of the ligament the head of the astragalus not only falls, but becomes also rotated inwards. The superior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament is short and triangular, lying in the hollow between the outer part of the astragalus and the OS calcis; it passes forwards and upwards from the ridge on the anterior and outer part of the os calcis to the outer side of the scaphoid.