INFERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. 138 BEANCHES OP THE INFEEIOE MAXILLAEY NEEVE. Anterior Portion. Postekiok Portion. Auriculo-temporal. To temporal muscle. Inferior dental. — masseter. Gustatory or lingual. — external pterygoid. Mylo-hyoideus. - - internal pterygoid. Anterior beUy of digastricus. •— buccal. The deejJ temiioral branches, two in number, anterior and 2>os- terior, pass outwards close to the great wing of the sphenoid bone, and ascend with the temporal arteries to the temporal muscle. A middle temjwral nerve is not infrequently present, and ascends beneath the temporal muscle to enter its deeper aspect. The posterior branch is occasionally joined with the masseteric nerve, the anterior with the buccal nerve. The branch to the masseter runs outwards above the external pterygoid, through the sigmoid notch of the jaw, to the under surface of the muscle. The branch to the external pterycjoid comes, apparently, from the buccal nerve in its passage through this muscle. The branch to the internal ptert/goid muscle proceeds from the inner side of the main trunk, close to the otic ganglion, and descending between the internal pterygoid and the tensor palati, enters the inner and deeper aspect of the muscle. The buccal branch, a sensorj?^ nerve, united at its origin with the anterior deep temporal and external pterygoid nerves, j)asses either above or between the fibres of the external pterygoid to the buccinator, where it spreads out into filaments, which form a plexus with the buccal branches of the facial nerve, and then supply the skin, mucous membrane, and glands of the cheek with common sensation. The motor power of the buccinator, remember, is de- rived from the facial nerve. That this buccal branch is mainly sensory is proved by the action of the muscle still continuing when the motor division of tbe fifth nerve is paralysed. The evidence is "corroborated by a case in which this buccal branch proceeded from the second division of the fifth nerve; no communication being