690 MUSCLES OF THE SOLE OF THE FOOT. border of tlie abductor minimi digiti, supplies it, and then divides into two branches, a superficial and a deep. The superficial branch sends one digital branch which supplies the flexor brevis minimi digiti, the plantar and dorsal interossei of the fourth space, and the outer side of the little toe ; and another and larger digital branch which supplies the contiguous sides of the fourth and fifth nerves, and sends a communicating filament to the outer digital branch of the internal plantar nerve. The deep branch accompanies the plantar arch deep into the sole of the foot, beneath the adductor hallucis, and furnishes branches to the plantar and dorsal interossei of all the interosseous spaces except the fourth, the adductor hallucis, the transversalis pedis, and the two outer lumbricales. Thieu Layer Having traced the principal vessels and nerves, OF MnscLEs. divide them with the flexor tendons near the os calcis, and turn them down towards the toes, to expose the deep muscles in the sole. These are, the flexor brevis and adductor hallucis, the flexor brevis minimi digiti, and the transversalis pedis. Flexor Brevis This muscle arises by a pointed tendon from the Hallucis. cuboid bone, and from the fibrous prolongation of the tibialis posticus into the external cuneiform It proceeds along the metatarsal bone of the great toe, and divides into two portions, which run one on each side of the long flexor tendon, and are i-n- serted by tendons into the sides of the first phalanx of the great toe. The inner tendon is inseparably connected with the abductor hallucis, the outer with the adductor hallucis. In each tendon there is a sesamoid bone. These bones not only increase the- strength of the muscle, but, both together, form a pulley for the free play of the long flexor tendon; so that in walking the tendon is not pressed upon. Its nerve comes from the internal plantar (fig. 160, h). Adductor This very powerful muscle arises from the bases Hallucis. of the second, third and fourth metatarsal bones, and from the sheath of the peroneus longus. Passing obliquely . forwards and inwards across the foot, it is inserted through the e.v- I ternal sesamoid bone into the outer side of the base of the first phalanx of the great toe together with the inner head of the flexor