DISSECTION OF THE FEMALE PERINEUM. 523 the uterus itself may become distended by it to such an extent as i even to simulate pregnancy.^ When the hymen is ruptured, it shrivels into a few irregular eminences, called caruncnlcB niyrtiformes. The presence of the hymen is not necessarily a proof of vir- ginity, nor does its absence imply the loss of it. Cases are re- lated by writers on midwifery in which a division of the hymen was requisite to facilitate parturition. In Meckel's Museum, at ■ Halle, are preserved the external organs of a female in whom the hjTnen is perfect even after the birth of a seven-months' child. Babtholix's Between the orifice of the vagina and the erector OK Dcyerxet's clitoridis is imbedded in the loose tissue on either GiANDs. gj(jg ^ small gland,'^ which corresponds to Cowper's gland in the male. Each is about half an inch in length. Its long slender duct runs forwards and opens on the inner side of the nympha external to the hymen. In cases of virulent gonorrhoea these glands are apt to become diseased, and give rise to the formation of an abscess in the labium, very difl&cult to heal. A smooth channel, called the vestibule, three- quarters of an inch in length, leads from the clitoris down to the orifice of the urethra. This orifice, meatiLS u'linarnts, is not a perpendicular fissure like that of the penis, but rounded and puckered, and during life has a. peculiar dimple- like feel, which assists us in finding it when we pass a catheter. You should practise the introduction of the catheter in the dead subject, for the operation is not so easy as might at first be ima- gined, pro^-ided the parts are not exposed. The point of the fore- finger of the left hand should be placed at the entrance of the vagina, and the meatus felt for; when the catheter, guided by the finger, slips, after a little manoeuvring, into the urethra. The canal is about one inch and a half in length, and runs along the upper wall of the vagina. The two canals are in such close apposition that you can feel the urethra imbedded in the vagina like a thick cord. The urethra is slightly curved with the concavity upwards; but for aU practical purposes it may be con- ' See Burn's Midwifery. ^ See Tiedemann, Voiider Duverneyschen Drilsendes Weibs. Heidelberg, 1840.