TRICEPS. 385 spinatus, another to the shoulder-joint, and then descends behind the neck of the scapula into the fossa below the spine, where it inosculates directly with the dorsalis scapulEe. Its branches ramify upon the bone, and supply the infraspinatus and teres minor (fig. 88). The suprascapular nerve passes most frequently through the notch of the scapula, accompanies the corresponding artery, sup- plies two branches to the supraspinatus and one to the shoulder- joint ; it then enters the infraspinous fossa, to terminate in the infraspinatus. DoESALis This artery, after passing through the triangular Sc.iPUL.E Arteby. space (p. 318), curves round the inferior border of the scapula, which it grooves, to the infraspinous fossa, where it ascends close to the bone, and anastomoses with the supra- and posterior scapular arteries. Another branch of the subscapular artery runs between the teres minor and major towards the inferior angle of the scapula, where it anastomoses with the posterior scapular artery (fig. 88). The several communications about the scapula between the l^ranches of the subclavian and axillary arteries would furnish a large collateral supply of blood to the arm, if the subclavian were tied above the clavicle (p. 122). If the skin has not been reflected ffom the back DiSSECTIOX. of tie arm, it should now be done. In the sub- ■utaneous tissue will be seen the internal cutaneous hranch of the ninsculo-sinral nerve, which supplies the skin as low down as the iilecranon. On the inner side of this branch is the intercosto- 'i umeral nerve, supplying the skin as far as the lower third of the irm. The nerve of Wrisberg also supplies the lower third of the irm; and on the outer side for the same distance is the external ■iitaneous branch of the musculo-spiral nerve. The fascia is now to be removed, when the triceps will be ■xposed, forming the only muscle on the back of the arm. Triceps Exten- This muscle, which arises by three distinct Hi CcBiTi. heads, and was only partially seen in the dissec- ion of the upper arm (p. 338), should now be thoroughly ex- i mined. The long head arises immediately below the glenoid C C