205 .LEFT AURICLE. only: namely, at the centre, or corpus Arantii, and at eacli ex- tremity. Between tliese points it stops short, and leaves a crescent- shaped portion of the valve, which is thinner than the rest, and consists of the endocardial membrane. This crescent-shaped por- tion, called the lunula, is not wholly without fibrous tissue; a thin tendinous cord runs along its free edge, to give it additional strength to resist the pressure of the blood. Behind each of the valves the artery bulges and forms three slight dilatations called the sinuses of Valsalva.^ These, we shall presently see, are more marked at the orifice of the aorta. The action of these valves is evident. During the contraction of the ventricle the valves lie against the side of the artery, and offer no impediment to the current of blood; during its dilatation, the elasticity of the distended artery would force back the coknnn of blood, but that the valves, being caught by the reflueaat blood, bag, and fall together so as to close the tube. The greater the pressure, the more complete is the closure. The coats of the artery are very elastic and yielding, while the valve, like the circumference to which it is attached, is quite unyielding ; consequently, when the artery is distended by the impulse of the blood, its wall is removed from the contact of the free margin of the valves, and these are the more readily caught by the regurgitating motion of the blood. The force of the reflux is sustained by the tendinous part of the valves, and by the muscular wall of the ventricle (pro- bably in a state of contraction). The valves are capable of sustain- ing a weight of sixty-three pounds before they give way.^ The thinner portions (lunulce) become placed so as to lie side by side, each one with that of the adjacent valve. This may be demonstrated by filling the artery with water. ^ This is situated at the left side and posterior part of the base of the heart, and is somewhat smaller than the right auricle. It consists, like the right auricle, of a cavity—the sinus venosus—and the auricular appendix. It is quadrilateral, and receives the four pulmonary veins, two on either side, which return the oxygenated blood from the lungs. From ' An Italian anatomist, b. 1GG6, d. 1723. 2 Haller.