415 CARPO-METACAEPAL ARTICULATIONS. the cuneiform to the articulations between the second row of carpal bones and the metacarpal bones of the four fingers (fig. 95). Jon^T BETWEEN ^® trapezium presents a cartilaginous surface, Tbapezium and . convex in the transverse, and concave in the THE First Meta- antero-posterior direction (i.e. saddle-shaped), cABPAii Bone. which articulates with the cartilaginous sui-face on the metacarpal bone of the thumb, concave and convex in the opposite directions. This peculiar adaptation of the two surfaces permits the several movements of the thumb—viz., flexion, exten- sion, abduction and adduction; consequently circumduction. It is an arthrodial joint, but permits of such extensive movement, that it is described by some anatomists as one by ' reciprocal re- ception.' Thus we are enabled to oppose the thumb to all the fingers, which is one of the great characteristics of the human hand. The joint is surrounded by a capsular ligament sufiici- ently loose to admit free motion, and stronger on the dorsal than on the palmar aspect. The security of the joint is increased by the muscles which surround it. It has a separate synovial memh'ane, Caepo-meta- The metacarpal bones of the fingers are con- CAEPAL Joints. nected to the second row of the carpal bones by ligaments upon their palmar and dorsal surfaces, and by interosseous ligaments. The dorsal ligaments are the stronger. The metacarpal bone of the forefinger has two : one from the trapezium, the other from the trapezoid bone. That of the middle finger h as also two, proceed- ing from the os magnum and the os trapezoides. That of the ring finger has also two, proceeding from the os magnum and the nnciform bone. That of the little finger has one only, from the unciform bone. The palmar ligaments are arranged nearly upon a similar plan. The metacarpal bone of the forefinger has one from the trapezoid bone. That of the middle finger has three, proceeding from the trapezium, the os magnum, and the unciform bone. Those of the ring and little fingers have each one, from the unciform bone. Besides the preceding ligaments, there are some of considerable strength, called the interosseous. They proceed from the adjacent