260 SPHENO-PALATINE GANGLION. given off immediately before the nerve enters the infra-orbital canal, and descend along the tuberosity of the superior maxillary bone ; th& anterior is given oflF in the infra-orbital canal. The j)osterior branch divides into two branches, which send small filaments to the gums and the mucous membrane of cheek, and then run in bony canals in company with small arteries to supply the molar teeth and the antrum ; the middle brancli passes down in a special canal in front of the antrum to be distributed to the bicuspid teeth ; the anterior branch, the largest, is given off before the nerve emerges from the infra-orbital foramen,^ and enters the canal in the front wall of the antrum ; it divides into dental branches for the supply of the canine and incisor teeth, and into a nasal branch for the mucous membrane of the floor of the nasal fossa. The anterior branch while in its bony canal gives off some filaments which join with the posterior dental branches, and above the canine fossa it also forms a communication with a nasal branch from the spheno-palatine ganglion, to form the ganglion of Bochdalek. e. The terminal branch of the superior maxillary nerve is called the infra-orhital, which divides on the face into palpebral, nasal, and labial branches. These have been ab-eady dissected and described (p. 48). At this stage the student should make the dis- Dissection. section to expose the spheno-palatine ganglion and its branches. To do this, it is necessary to saw through the skull rather on one side of its middle line, so as to expose the cavity of th© nose. Search must now be made for the spheno-palatine foramen (just external to which is the spheno-palatine ganglion), which is situated immediately above the posterior extremity of the middle turbinated bone. Remove the mucous membrane at this point, when the terminal branch of the internal maxillary artery, which comes through this foramen into the nose, may be readily made out. The student should next cut away the thin plate of bone which forms the inner boundary of the posterior palatine canal. Then, by tracing upwards the branches contained within the canal, he will find the ganglion. Sphbno-pala- This ganglion is called, after its discoverer, TINS Ganglion. Meckel's ganglion. It is the largest of the ganglia in connection with the branches of the fifth cerebral nerve, is tri- angular, convex on its outer surface, of reddish-grey colour, about one-fifth of an inch in diameter, and is placed immediately below