THE PENIS. 558 urethra, immediately beneatli the mucous membrane. Between the' mucous and muscular coats is a layer of areolar tissue, the submucous tissue. The erectile coat, a thin stratum of erectile tissue derived from the corpus spongiosum, extends from this body round the mem- branous and the prostatic portions of the canal. Lastly, the urethra is provided with a closely-set network of lymphatic vessels, which has been demonstrated by quicksilver in- jections.^ They run from behind, forwards, and join the lymphatics of the glans penis. Eventually, their contents are transmitted down the great trunks on the dorsum penis to the inguinal glands. This explains the pathology of a bubo. ^ p The 2^enis is a pendulous organ through which runs the urethra, for three-fourths of its course; it consists of a root, a body, and the glans penis. The ovot is the broadest part, and is connected by two crura to the rami of the pubic bones; its dorsum being supported by a strong elastic suspensory ligament, which is attached to the sjnnphysis pubis. The hocly is cylindrical, consisting of the two corpora cavernosa and the corpus spongiosum. The glans is the expanded extremity which presents at its apex the orifice of the urethra, and at its base where it is attached to the body there is a deej) circular groove, the cervix, the elevated margin in front being called the corona glandis. In these situations are a number of minute sebaceous glands, glanclulce Tysonii odoriferce, which secrete a sebaceous substance, called smegma preputii. The surface of the glans has no sebaceous glands, but is covered with minute vascular papillee, endowed with keen sensibility by the dorsal nerves of the penis. The skin of the penis is remarkably thin and extensible, and connected to the body of the organ by loose areolar tissue, destitute of fat. At the extremity the skin forms the prepuce, or foreskin, for the protection of the glans; ^ and the thin fold which ' Panizza, Osservazioni antropo-zootom. &c., Pavia, 1830. This anatomist has also displayed by injections an extremely fine network of lymphatics which covers the glans penis. The interstices of this network are smaller than the diameter of the tubes. ^ When the foreskin is, from birth, so tight that the glans cannot be uncovered, such a state is called a congenital phymosis. This condition occasions no incon-