DISSECTION OF THE SOLE OK THE FOOT. 6^3 THE DISSECTION OF THE ' SOLE OF THE FOOT. Surface The skin of the sole is remarkably thick, es- Marking. pecially over the os calcis and the heads of the metatarsal bones. The sole of the foot is convex, and narrow behind, but gradually increases in breadth forwards to the clefts of the toes. The inner arch of the foot, extending from the inner tuberosity of the os calcis to the distal end of the first metatarsal bone, is well marked in a well-developed foot; along this arch can be distinguished the sustentaculum tali; about an inch in front of this is the prominent tubercle of the scaphoid, and another inch in front of this we can feel the articulation between the internal cuneiform and the base of the metatarsal bone of the great toe. The outer arch of the foot is neither so deep nor so long as the inner; it extends from the external tubercle of the os calcis to the base of the metatarsal bone of the little toe, and along it we can recognise the peroneal tubercle of the os calcis and the base of the fifth metatarsal bone. The transverse arch, between the heads of the metatarsal bones, is not well marked through the skin, for it is obscured by the tense plantar fascia. The plantar fascia can be made tense by extending the foot, when its narrowest part is seen to be about one inch in front of the os calcis. The course of the external plantar artery is indicated by a line drawn from the in- ternal tubercle of the os calcis to the base of the fifth metatarsal bone; that of the internal plantar artery by a line drawn from the same tuberosity to the first interosseous space. ^ The foot should be firmly fixed to a block with the sole directed towards the dissector, and the toes either fastened by string or nailed to the block, so as to put the plantar fascia on the stretch. Make a perpendicular incision down t( the middle of the sole; another transverse one across the foot at the clefts of the toes, and continue the perpendicular incision along the middle of the toes to their terminations. Reflect the skin, and notice the peculiar structure of the subcutaneous tissue. It is composed of globular masses of fat, separated by strong fibrous septa, and forms elastic pads, especially marked at the heel, and at