134 INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY. the external pterygoid, enters the spheno-maxillary fossa between the two heads of the external pterygoid, where it terminates by dividing into numerous branches. The course of this artery is divided into three stages. In the first, the artery lies between the neck of the jaw and the internal lateral ligament; in the second, it lies either over or under the external pterygoid; in the third, it lies in the spheno-maxillary fossa. BEANCHES OF THE INTEENAL MAXILLAEY AETEBY IN THE THEEE STAGES OF ITS COUESE. Branches in the First Branches in the Second Stage. Stage. Branches in the Third Stage. a. Tympanic. 6. Meningea media. c. Meningea parva. d. Inferior dental. Six to the five muscles of i. Superior dental. mastication, namely: e. Masseteric. /. Anterior and posterior deep temporal. g. External and internal pterygoid. h. Buccal. j. Infra-orbital. k. Descending palatine. Z. Vidian. m. Pterygo-palatine. 11. Nasal or spheno-pala- tine. Branches in a. The tympanic ascends behind the articulation of the First Part. the jaw, and passes through the Glaserian fissure to the tympanum. It supplies that cavity and the membrana tympani, and anastomoses with the stylo-mastoid and Vidian arteries. It occa- sionally gives off a dee]) auricular branch which pierces the anterior wall of the external auditory meatus, supplying the skin of this canal. This artery is not infrequently given off from a branch of the internal maxillary artery. b. The middle meningeal artery ascends between the two roots of the auriculo-temporal nerve, behmd the external pterygoid, and enters through the foramen spinosum mto the cranium, where it ramifies between the dura mater and the bones. In the skull it gives off small branches to the Gasserian ganglion ; a j^etrosal branch passing through the hiatus Fallopii; orbital branches entermg the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure ; and temporal branches which pierce the gi"eat -wing of the sphenoid to enter the temporal fossa. Its further course is described at p. 16.