INTERIOR KADIO-ULNAR ARTICULATION. 411 border of the interosseous membrane is a triangular interval througk whicli tlie posterior interosseous artery passes to the back of the forearm. A bursa intervenes between the oblique ligament and the insertion of the tendon of the biceps. The use of this ligament is to limit supination of the radius. Infeeior "^^is joint is a lateral ginglymu.s, and is formed Eadio-ulnar by the inner concave surface of the lower end of Articulation. ^^^q radius rotating upon the convex head of the ulna; which mechanism is essential to the pronation and supina- tion of the hand. These corresponding surfaces are encrusted with a thin layer of cartilage, and are provided with a very loose syn- ovial membrane. The surfaces are maintained in position by an anterior and a posterior radio-ulnar ligament, and a triangular fibro-cartilage. The antefiior o'adio-ulnao- ligament is a thin fasciculus extending obliquely inwards from the anterior border of the sigmoid cavity of the radius to the head of the ulna. The irosterior radio-ulnar ligament passes from the posterior border of the sigmoid cavity to the posterior surface of the styloid process of the ulna. The triangtdar fihro-cartilage between the radius and ulna is the principal uniting medium between the bones. To see" it, saw through the bones of the forearm, and separate them by cutting through the interosseous membrane, and opening the synovial membrane of the joint between the lower ends. Thus a good view is obtained of the fibro-cartilage which connects them (fig. 95). It is triangular, and placed transversely at the lower end of the ulna, filling up the interval caused by the greater leng-th of the radius. Its base is attached to the lower end of the raditis; its apex to a depression at the root of the styloid process of the ulna. It is thin at the base and centre, thicker at the apex and sides. Its upper surface is in contact with the ulna, and covered by the synovial membrane of the inferior radio-ulnar joint; its lower surface, forming a part of the wrist-joint, is contiguous with the cuneiform bone. Its borders are connected with the anterior and posterior ligaments of the wrist. In some instances there is an aperture in the centre.