383 SUBSCAPULAKIS. aspect of the inferior angle of the back of the scapula, from its inferior border, and the intermuscular septa, and terminates upon a fiat tendon, nearly two inches in breadth, which is inserted into the inner edge of the bicipital groove of the humerus, behind and a little lower than the tendon of the latissimus dorsi. Its action is to draw the humerus backwards and downwards when the arm is raised, and to rotate it slightly inwards. It is supplied by the middle subscapular nerve, which enters it on its axillary aspect. A bursa is found in front of, and another behind, the tendon of the teres major ; the former separates it from the latissimus dorsi, the latter from the bone. SupBA- This muscle arises from the posterior two-thirds spiNATus. of the supraspinous fossa, and from its aponeurotic covering. It passes under the acromion, over the capsular liga- ment of the shoulder-joint, and is inserted by a strong tendon into the superior depression on the greater tuberosity of the humerus. To see its insertion, the acromion should be sawn off near the neck of the scapula. Its action is to assist the deltoid in raising the arm. It is supplied by two branches derived from the supra- scapular nerve. This triangular fleshy muscle occupies the sub- StJBSCAPULARIS. IP Tj. • r i.1 j. • j_i scapular lossa. it arises from the posterior three- (fourths of the fossa, except the posterior border and angles which give attachment to the serratus magnus, and from three or four jondinous septa attached to the oblique bony ridges on its surface, lie fibres, passing upwards and outwards, converge towards the eck of the scapula, where they terminate upon three or four endons, which are concealed amongst the muscular fibres, and are nserted into the lesser tuberosity of the humerus and into the bone or an inch below the tuberosity. Its broad insertion is closely con- lected with the capsule of the shoulder-joint, which it completely )rotects upon its inner side. Its action is to rotate the humerus uwards, and, when the arm is raised, draws it downwards. The ■rves which supply it come from the long and middle subscapular lerves. The coracoid process, with the coraco-brachialis and short head i' the biceps, forms an arch, under which the tendon of the sub-