71. NERVUS ACCESSORIUS. tlie muscles just mentioned (with, the exception of the serratus magnus), are found the descending branches of the cervical plexus ; and, passing obliquely downwards from beneath the sterno-mastoid is the spinal accessory nerve, which enters the under part of the trapezius. Curving round the posterior border of the sterno- mastoid, and becoming superficial, are the ascending and transverse branches of the superficial cervical plexus. The transversalis colli (posterior scapular) artery and vein, and its branch the superficialis colli (which chiefly supplies the trapezius), cross transversely out- wards the lower part of the space. A chain of lymphatic glands is also found along the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid. Nervds The upper part of the sterno-mastoid is traversed AccEssoniDs. obliquely by a large nerve called the spinal acces- sory or n. accessorius. This nerve—the eleventh cranial—consists of two parts : one, the accessori/, arises from the side of the medulla oblongata below the pneumogastric nerve; the other, the ^imicd part, arises from the cervical portion of the spinal cord by a series of filaments from the lateral tract as low down as the sixth cervical vertebra. The spinal portion ascends between the ligamentum denticulatum and the posterior roots of the spinal nerves, through the foramen magnum into the skull. Within the cranium the two parts unite and form a single nerve, which leaves the skull through the foramen jugulare. Here the accessorij portion is connected with the ganglion of the root of the pneumogastric by several filaments; and lower down it again joins the pneumogastric at the ganglion of the trunk, below which the two nerves become blended. The accessory and spinal portions communicate in the foramen jugulare. Below the foramen the spinal part runs behind the internal jugular vein, the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, and then pierces obliquely the upper third of the sterno-mastoid. Emerging beneath its outer border, it crosses the posterior triangle of the neck to the under surface of the trapezius, to which it is distributed. The nervus accessorius supplies also the sterno- mastoid in its passage through it, and here it joins some branches from the third cervical. After leaving the muscle it is joined by branches from the second and third cervical nerves. Beneath the trapezius it forms a plexus with the third and fourth cervical