HIP-JOINT. 697 •^vliich are most consistent with the maintenance of the erect attitude, and the requirements of this part of the skeleton. The ligaments of the hip-joint are—the capsular, the ilio- femoral, the ligamentum teres, the cotyloid, and the transverse. Capsular The cajmilar ligament is attached above to the LioAiiENT. circumference of the acetabulum, a little external to the margin, also to the transverse ligament, and by a few fibres to the outer margin of the obturator foramen; below, to the anterior intertrochanteric ridge in front; above, to the root of the great trochanter, and to the middle of the neck behind, about half an inch above the posterior intertrpqh^iriteric ridge. The anterior and upper part of the capsular ligament is very thick and strong, composed chiefly of longitudinal fibres with a few deeply seated circular fibres, which are concealed by the superficial longi- tudinal bands. The posterior aspect of the capsular ligament is represented by a few sparsely scattered fibres. The front part of the ligament is rendered exceedingly strong by several accessory ligaments, one of which, called the ilio-femoral ligament, extends from the anterior inferior iliac spine, and from a depression above the acetabulum, and then divides like the two arms of the inverted letter : one, the inner and vertical, passes to the base of the lesser trochanter; the outer, to the upper part of the ante- rior intertrochanteric line. In addition, there is at the lower and back part a broad ligament, the ischio-capsular ligament, whose fibres extend from the ischium to the inner part of the joint, close to the lesser trochanter ; and a third accessory ligament, the ptiho- femoral, consists of the thin fibres converging from the ilio-pectineal eminence, and the margin of the obturator foramen to the front and inner part of the capsular ligament. The ilio-femoral ligament is very strong, and serves as a strap to prevent the femur being extended beyond a certain point, and limits rotation inwards and outwards. The capsule is in relation, in front, with the iliacus and psoas muscles, from which it is separated by a synovial bursa. This bursa occasionally communicates by a rounded aperture with the synovial cavity of the hip-joint. Open the capsule to ascertain its great thickness in front, and