STRUCTURE OF THE PANCREAS. 584 membrane presents a series of folds, so arranged one after the other as to form a complete spiral valve. The probable use of this is to prevent the too rapid flow of the bile. The gall-bladder appears to serve mainly as a resei'voir for the bile while digestion is not going on. The bile becomes during its sojourn in the gall- bladder very viscid and intensely bitter. The gall-bladder is supplied with blood from the cystic branch of the right hepatic artery; its blood is returned by the cystic vein, which opens into the vena portee ; its nerves are derived from the coeliac plexus, which accompany the hepatic artery. The pancreas is a large gland belonging to the ? acino-tubular class. It is placed transversely across the posterior wall of the abdomen, and measures from six to ■■ eight inches in length, about an inch and a half in breadth, and from half an inch to an inch in thickness ; its weight being usually from two to three and a half ounces. It presents for examination a head, a body, and a tail. The liead, situated to the right side, is turned down, and is embraced by the descending and transverse portions of the duo- denum, the superior and inferior pancreatico-duodenal arteries run- f/: ning between them. A considerable prolongation usually extends upwards from the posterior part of the gland, and reaches the lesser curve of the stomach: this constitutes sometimes a separate mass, and is then termed the lesser pancreas. The tail is the narnow end of the pancreas, which extends to the left as far as the hilum of the spleen. The hocltj is convex in front, and is covered by the ascending layer of the transverse meso-colon. The pancreas has a posterior surface which is concave, and lies on the vena cava, the aorta, the crura of the diaphragm, the superior mesenteric artery and vein, the commencement of the vena portK, and the inferior mesenteric vein; an ifjjper border which is thick, and is in relation with the splenic artery and vein, the coeliac axis, the hepatic artery, and the first portion of the duodenum; and a lower border which is thin, and is in relation with the superior mesenteric artery and vein, and on its left with the inferior mesenteric vein. The duct of the pancreas, called also the duct of FFw-simf/, passes