766 THALAMUS OPTICUS. bellum by two bands, one on eaeli side, termed the lorocessua a cerehello acl cerehrum. 7. Between these cords extends a thin layer of grey substance, called the valve of Vieussens, beneath which lies the fourth ventricle. Thalamus This, called also the posterior cerebral ganglion, Opticus. ig the convex oval elevation seen immediately behind the corpus striatum and ttenia semicircularis. Superficially it is covered with a thin layer of white, but internally it is com- posed of grey substance. The under surface rests upon the tegmentum of the cms cerebri, and forms part of the roof of the middle horn of the lateral ventricle ; externally it is bounded by a broad band of white substance derived from the crusta, which forms the internal capsule, already described. Externally, the optic thalamus is bounded by the taania semicircularis; superfi- cially, it is covered by the choroid plexus and the fornix; inter- nally, it forms the lateral boundary of the third ventricle, and has, running along it, the peduncle of the pineal body; poste- riorly, it overlaps the sides of the corpora quadrigemina and forms a prominence in the roof of the middle horn, where it receives the crus cerebri. The upper surface of the thalamus is divided into two portions by an oblique shallow groove, passing from before backwards ; the anterior and outer portion forms a prominent convex surface, called the anterior tubercle, which is covered with the epithelium of the lateral ventricle; the posterior and inner portion is pointed in front, and posteriorly enlarges to form a prominent rounded eminence, the posterior tubercle or pulvinar, and is not lined with epithelium.^ Beneath the pos- terior part of the thalamus are two small oval eminences, termed the corpora geniculata, internum and externum. These consist of small accumulations of grey matter, beneath the white; the outer one being situated external to and above the internal, and to the outer side of one of the roots of the optic tract (fig. 180). From each of these bodies proceeds a white band to join the root just referred to, and from the junction of these three roots (brachia) the optic tract has its commencement. A narrow band of white ' There is a triangular depression between the pulvinar and the peduncle of the pineal body, which has received the name of the trigonum JiabenulcB.