174 THE AORTA. a riglit angle opposite tlie upper part of the first intercostal space on the right border of the sternum ; that is, about the level of the highest point of the arch of the aorta. The vena cava descends vertically, with a slight inclination backwards, to the upper and anterior part of the right auricle. It is from two and a half to three inches long, and has no valves. The lower half of it is covered by the pericardium; you must, therefore, open this sac to see how the serous layer of the pericardium is reflected over the front and sides of the vein. In respect to its relations, notice that the vein lies in front of the right bronchus and the right pulmonary vessels ; and that it is overlapped by the ascending aorta, which lies to its left side. In the upper half of its course, that is, above the pericardium, it is covered on its right side by the pleura; on this side, in contact with it, descends the phrenic nerve. • Before it is covered by the pericardium, the vena cava receives the right vena azygos, which opens into it after hooking over the right bronchus; also some pericardiac and mediastinal veins. Course of the The aorta is the great trunk from which all the AoBTA. arteries of the body carrying arterial blood are derived. It commences at the upper and back part of the left ventricle of the heart. It ascends forwards and to the right as high as the lower border of the first intercostal space on the right side ; it then arches backwards towards the left side of the body of the second dorsal vertebra, and turning downwards over the left side of the third, completes the arch at the fifth dorsal vertebra. The aorta descends through the thorax on the left side of the bodies of the remaining dorsal vertebras as far as the diaphragm; it enters the abdomen through the aortic opening of the diaphragm, and descends as far as the left side of the body of the fourth lumbar vertebra, where it bifurcates into the right and left common iliac arteries. The aorta has received different names in the various parts of its course : thus, the arched portion extending from its origin at the left ventricle to the fifth dorsal vertebra, is called the arcli of the aorta; the portion between this vertebra and the diaphragm is the descending thoracio aorta; and the remainder of its course to its division at the fourth lumbar vertebra is known as the abdominal aorta.