118 BRANCHES OF THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. 1809 ; since that time the operation has been repeatedly performed, with very favourable results. In the hands of a surgeon possessed of a practical knowledge of anatomy the operation is easy, provided all circumstances be favourable: but circumstances are often very unfavourable. Ana- tomical deviations are by no means rare, and it often happens that the aneurismal or other tumour, on account of which the operation is performed, raises the clavicle beyond its natural level, and so disturbs the parts, that to expose the artery and place a ligature around it becomes exceedingly difficult. Under such circumstances one cannot be surprised that even distinguished anatomists have committed mistakes. Sir Astley Cooper' failed in one instance. Dupuytren perforated the artery with the point of the needle, ai^d included one of the nerves in the ligature: fatal hemorrhage was the result.^ We were present at an operation in which the large nerve (a branch of the brachial plexus) which runs parallel with and on a plane anterior to the artery was mistaken for it and tied; the surgeon being deceived by the pulsation communicated to the nerve. The description of the means whereby the collateral circulation is maintained is deferred until the branches of the subclavian have been made out and described. Branches op The branches of the subclavian extend so wide- THB Subclavian ly, that in the present dissection we can trace AnTERY. them only for a short distance. They are four in number:— 1. The vertebral. 2. The thyroid axis, a short thick trunk which gives off the inferior thyroid, supra-scapular, and posterior scapular. 3. The internal mammary. 4. The superior intercostal, which gives off the deep cervi- cal. As a rule, the vertebral, the thyroid axis, and the internal mammary are given off from the subclavian in the first part of its course, and the superior intercostal in the second part. The ' London Medical Revieiv, vol. ii. p. 300. ' Edinburgh Med. and Surg. Journal, vol. xvi. 1820.