STERNO-CLAVICULAR LIGAMENTS. 401 The palmar and dorsal interossei are supplied by filaments from the deep branch of the ulnar nerve. DISSECTION OF THE LIGAMENTS. Stebno-clavi- The inner end of the clavicle articulates with cuLAR Joint. the comparatively small and shallow excavation on th-e upper and outer part of the stermim, and is an arthrodial joint. The security of the joint depends upon the great strength of its ligaments. There are two synovial membranes, and an intervening fibro-cartilage. The anterior sterno-clavictdar ligament (fig. 92) consists of a strong broad band of ligamentous fibres, which pass obliquely downwards and inwards over the front of the joint, from the inner end of the clavicle to the anterior Surface of the sternum. Th.6 posterior sterno-davicular ligament extends over the back of the joint, its fibres passing downwards and forwards from the back of the clavicle to the back of the sternum in a similar manner to the anterior. The interclavicular ligament connects the clavicles directly. It extends transversely along the notch of the sternum, and has a broad attachment to the upper border of each clavicle. Between the clavicles it is more or less attached to the sternum, so that it forms a curve with the concavity upwards. The three ligaments just described are so closely connected as extensors of the second and third phalanges ; the common extensor tendons acting only as extensors of the first phalanges. (Pliysiologie des Moiivements Sc., 1867.) The action of the lumbricales in extending the second and third phalanges (even if they are not the chief factors of this movement) must not be lost sight of, for in a case, recorded in St. Bartholomew's Hospital Reports, 1881, in which the ulnar nerve had been divided a short distance above the wrist-joint, the first phalanges of the ring and little fingers were bent (extended) upon their articu- lating metacarpal bones, the second and third phalanges being flexed at obtuse angles upon their proximal phalanges : the index and middle fingers being normal. I attribute this condition to paralysis of the two ulnar lumbricales and not to loss of power of the interossei. I have seen about a dozen instances of division of the ulnar nerve, and in all of them the same condition of the little and ring fingers has existed. D D