MUSCLES OF THE BACK. 281 The serratus posticus superior must now be reflected from its origin, and turned outwards to expose the following muscle. This muscle, so called from its resemblance to Splenitis. ^ strap, arises from the spinous processes of the five or six upper dorsal and the last cervical vertebrte, from the supra-spinous ligament, and from the lower half of the ligamentum nuchae. The fleshy fibres pass upwards and outwards and divide into two portions, named, according to their respective insertions, splenitis capitis and splenim colli. a. The splenius capitis, the inner of the two portions, is in- serted into the mastoid process, and into the outer part of the superior curved line of the occipital bone, beneath the sterno- mastoid. b. The splenius colli, the outer of the two portions, is inserted by tendinous slips into the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the upper three cervical vertebr£e. The splenias is supplied by the external branches of the posterior, divisions of the cervical nerves. The action of the splenius, taken as a whole, is to draw the head and the upper cervical vertebras towards its own side: so far, it co-operates with the opposite sterno-mastoid muscle. When the splenu of opposite sides contract, they extend the cervical portion of the spine, and keep the head erect. The permanent contraction of a single splenius may occasion wry-neck. It is necessary to be aware of this, otherwise one might suppose the opposite sterno-mastoid to be afi'ected, considering that the ap- pearance of the distortion is alike in either case. Dissection to To lay bare the fourth layer of muscles, the EXPOSE THE splenius and serratus posticus inferior are to be Fourth Layer. detached from their origins. After reflecting the vertebral aponeurosis and the lumbar fascia from its internal attachment, the erector spin^e and its prolongations are exposed. Erector S i '^^^ mass of muscle which occupies the vertebral groove on each side of the spine, is, collectively, called erector spince, since it counteracts the tendency of the trunk to fall forwards. It is pointed at its lower tendinous extremity where it arises from the sacral region; in the lumbar region It is broad, thick and muscular; in the lower dorsal region