PLEURiE. 1G5 those structures found above this nearly horizontal plane, and are the transverse portion of the arch of the aorta and its three large branches, the trachea, oesophagus, and thoracic duct, the inno- minate veins, superior vena cava, left recurrent laryngeal nerve, phrenic, pneumogastric, and cardiac nerves, lymphatic glands, and the th^Tnus or its remains. Before passing to the dissection of the contents of the thorax, the student should carefully trace the outline of the free borders of the pleura3 as seen in the front of the chest. As the margins of the lungs for all practical purposes correspond with the borders of the pleuras, we shall confine our description to the more important of the two structures, viz. the lungs. The value of this investi- gation is, that we are enabled to trace upon a living chest the outlines of the lungs, and know what j)arts are naturally resonant on percussion. Commencing from above (fig. 40, p. 164), we find that the apex of the lung extends into the neck, from an inch to an inch and a half above the clavicle. This part of the lung ascends behind the subclavian artery and the scalenus anticus muscle, and deserves especial attention, because it is, more than any other, the seat of tubercular disease. From the sternal end of the clavicles the lungs converge towards the middle line, where their borders nearly meet opposite the junction of the second rib. There is thus little or no lung behind the manubrium sterni. From the level of the second costal cartilage to the level of the fourth, the inner margins of each lung run nearly parallel and almost in contact behind the middle of the sternum; consequently they overlap the great vessels at the root of the heart. Below the level of the fourth costal cartilage the margins of the lungs diverge from each other, but not in an equal degree. The left presents the notch for the heart, and foUows nearly the course of the fourth costal cartilage; at the lower pairt of its curve it projects more or less over the apex of the heart like a little tongue. The right descends almost perpendicularly behind the sternum as low as the attachment of the ensiform cartilage, and then turning outwards corresponds with the direction of the sixth costal cartilage. Hypertrophy of the heart, or effusion into the