PARTS CONCERNED IN FEMORAL HERNIA, 620 necessary to remove the peritoneum. It is that portion of the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle which is inserted into the linea ilio-pectinea for about an inch in length. It is placed nearly horizontally in the erect posture, and is triangular with its apex at the os pubis and its base directed outwards. In front, it is continuous with the crural arch ; behind, it is inserted into the linea ilio-pectinea; externally, it is continuous with the fascia lata through Hey's ligament (fig. 145). Its length is from three- quarters of an inch to one inch ; but it is usually longer in the male than in the female. On putting your finger into the femoral ring, you feel the sharp and wiry edge of this ligament: observe, too, that as the body lies on the table, the plane of the ligament is perpendicular, and therefore that it recedes from the surface. An incision should now be made through the fascia lata alonsr the entire length of Poupart's ligament; another also through the I'ascia vertically, from the anterior superior iliac spine down the thigh for about four inches; and the fascia lata carefully dissected downwards and inwards from the subjacent structures. This wil] expose the structures as they pass under Poupart's ligament in their course down the thigh. Abbangement crural arch transmits from the abdomen into OF THE Pauts the thigh (proceeding in order from the outer side) WHICH PASS UNDEB. the foUowiug objects shown in fig. 146 : 1, The THE Arch. external cutaneous nerve. 2. The iliacus with the anterior crural nerve lying on it near its inner border. 3. The femoral artery resting on the psoas muscle. 4. The crural branch of the genito-crural nerve. 6. The femoral vein. 6. The crural sheath surrounding the femoral vessels, formed in front by the fascia transversalis, behind by the fascia iliaca. 7. The lymphatics passing upwards through the femoral canal. 8. The pectineus. These muscles and vessels fill up the space beneath the crural arch, except on the inner side of the femoral vein, where a space is left for the passage of the lymphatics : this is called the crural or femoral riiuj. The muscles are separated from the vessels by a strong vertical fibrous partition passing from the arch to the bone, which is nothing more than a continuation of the sheath of the psoas. The artery, too,