395 POSTERIOR INTEROSSEOUS ARTERY. of the hand to the first phalanx of the index finger, where it i& united to the ulnar border of the common extensor tendon. By the action of this muscle the index finger can be extended indepen- dently of the others. Eeflect the anconeus from its orig-in, to exijosa Dissection. n r ■ ^ the lollowmg muscle— . Supinator This muscle embraces the upper third of the RiDH Brevis. radius. It arises from the external condyle of the humerus, from the external lateral ligament of the elbow-joint, t'rom the orbicular ligament siirrounding the head of the radius,, from an oblique ridge on the outer surface of the ulna below the insertion of the anconeus, by fleshy fibres from the triangular ex- cavation below the lesser sigmoid notch of the ulna, and from the aponeurosis covering the muscle. The muscular fibres tarn over the neck and upper part of the shaft of the radius, and are inserted into the upper third of this bone, as far forwards as the ridge lead- ing from the tubercle to the insertion of the pronator teres. The muscle is traversed obliquely by the posterior interosseous nerve, which sends a branch to it, and its upper part is in contact with the capsule of the elbow-joint. It is a powerful supinator of the forearm, some of its fibres acting at nearly a right angle to the axis of the radius. Posterior This artery comes from the ulnar by a comimon Interosseous trunk with the anterior interosseous (p. 352), and Artert. supplies the muscles on the back of the forearm. It passes between the oblique ligament and the interosseous membrane, and appears, at the back, between the supinator radii l)revis and the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. After supplying loranches to all the muscles in this situation, the artery descends, much diminished in size, between the superficial and deep layer of muscles to the wrist, where it inosculates with the carpal branches of the anterior interosseous, and the posterior carpal branches of the radial and iilnar arteries. The largest branch of this artery is the interosseous recurrent. It ascends beneath the supmator brevis and the anconeus to the space between the external condyle and the olecranon, where it inosculates with the branch of the superior profunda which descends in the sub-