329 JHE BICEPS. sheath, and furnishes partitions which separate the muscles from each other. Of these partitions, the most marked are, the external and internal intermuscular septa, which di-\dde the muscles on the anterior from those on the posterior surface of the upper arm. These septa are attached to the condyloid ridges of the humerus and to the condyles. The internal intermuscular septum, the stronger of the two, begins at the insertion of the teres major, and is connected with tendinous insertion of the coraco-brachialis ; it separates the triceps extensor from the brachialis anticus, to both of which it affords attachment to their muscular fibres. It is pierced by the ulnar nerve and the inferior profunda and anastomotic arteries. The external intermuscular septum commences from the insertion of the deltoid, and separates the brachialis anticus, the supinator longus, and the extensor carpi radialis longior in front, from the triceps extensor behind, to all of which muscles it affords attachment. It is pierced by the musculo-spiral nerve and the superior profunda artery. At the lower part of the ujDper arm, the fascia is remarkably strong, especially where it covers the brachialis anticus, and the bracliial vessels, and is continued over the muscles on the inner side of the forearm. At the back of the elbow, the fascia is attached to the tendon of the triceps, and the olecranon. ^ Now remove the fascia corresponding to the DiSSECTIOX. ... , , , incisions through the skm, m order to see the muscles on the front of the arm—namely, the biceps, the coraco- brachialis, and the brachialis anticus. The long rounded muscle in front is the biceps; the muscle attached with it to the coracoid process is the coraco-brachialis ; and the broad flat muscle covering the lower end of the humerus is the brachialis anticus. ^^^^ , TTie biceps, as its name implies, arises by two heads—a long and a short. The short head arises from the tip of the coracoid process of the scapula, by a thick, flat tendon in common with a slender muscle on its inner side, called the coraco-brachialis. The lon>rj head arises from the upper border of the glenoid fossa of the scapula and the glenoid ligament, by a long, rounded tendon, which, traversing the shoulder-joint, passes over the head of the humerus; there pierces the capsular ligament,