T24 BRACHIAL PLEXUS OF NERVES. anterior to and a little lower than the artery, from which it is separated by the scalenus anticns, the phrenic and pneumogastric nerves. It has a pair of valves just before its junction with the internal jugular. It receives the anterior jugular, the external jugular, and through it, the supra-scapular and posterior scapular veins. Beachial The large nerves forming the plexus which sup- Plexus op plies the upper extremity are the anterior divisions Nerves. Q-f ^,]^q fg^j, lower cervical and the larger portion of the first dorsal, with a small fasciculus derived from the fourth cervical nerve. Emerging from the intervertebral foramina the nerves appear between the anterior and middle scalene muscles, and pass with the subclavian artery into the axilla. In the neck the nerves have no plexiform arrangement, and it is only in the axilla that they branch and communicate largely with each other, and form the hraehial plexus of nerves. The nerves in the neck are wide and are situated higher than the subclavian artery, and nearly on the same plane ; but as they descend beneath the clavicle, tliey converge and form lai'ge communications with each other, thus constituting the brachial plexus which completely surrounds the artery : one cord lying to the outer side, a second lying to the inner side, and a third behind the vessel. The plexus is crossed superficially by the omo-hyoid muscle, and by the supra-scapular and posterior scapular arteries, and their corresponding veins. The arrangement of the nerves in the formation of the plexus is very variable, and often not alike on both sides. The most usual ai'rangement is, that at the outer border of the scalenus anticus, the fifth and sixth cervical nerves unite to form an upper trunk ; the eighth and the first dorsal n. form a lower trunk; the seventh cervical runs for some distance alone, and forms a middle trunk. Now each of these four upper primary nerves divides into an anterior and a posterior branch : the anterior branches given off from the fifth, sixth, and seventh form the outer cord of the plexus; the anterior branches given off from the eighth cervical and first dorsal form the inner cord; while the posterior branches of all the