BRANCHES OF THE POPLITEAL ARTERY. 677 iier\'e, and a considerable amount of fat; then, lower down, by tbe gastrocnemius and soleus, and it is crossed by tlie plantaris. The vein closely accompanies the artery, and is situated superficially with regard .to it, and rather to its outer side in the first part of its course. The internal popliteal nerve runs also in a similar direction with the vein, but is still more superficial and to the outer side (fig. 155). The vessels and the nerve are surrounded by fat, and one or two lymphatic glands are generally found in the immediate neighbourhood of the artery, just above the joint. The branches of the popliteal artery are—the arttcidar, the sural, and the cutaneoiLS. There are five articidar branches for the supply of the knee-joint and the articular ends of the bones : the two superior—external and internal —ran, one above each condyle, close to the bone ; the two inferior— external and internal—run beloAv the joint. 1. The sujyeridr external articular artery runs above the external condyle, passes beneath the biceps, and through the intermuscular septum : it then divides into a superfcial and a deep branch ; the super- ficial supplies the vastus externus, and then forms part of the patellar ai-terial plexus ; the deep branch keeps close to the femur and SuppHes tlie knee, forming an arch above the joint with a branch from the anastomotica magna. 2. The superior internal articular artery runs above the internal condyle, under the tendon of the adductor magnus and vastus intemus, and divides into two branches, a superficial and a deep, which take a coiTesponding course to those on the outer side. 3. The inferior external articular artery runs under the gastro- cnemius, over the popliteus, then, passing beneath the external lateral ligament and the tendon of the biceps, it reaches the patella, where it ))reaks up into branches anastomosing with the other articular arteries, and the recurrent branch of the anterior tibial artery. 4. The inferior internal articular artery runs between the tuberosity of the tibia and the internal lateral ligament, and supplies the inner and anterior part of the joint. 5. Tlie azygos artery is given off" from the deejD aspect of the Jjopliteal, pierces the ligaraentum posticum Winslowii, to supply the crucial ligaments and the synovial mem1)rane. The several articular arteries form over the front and sides of the