MUSCULAR FIBRES OF THE HEART, 211 Arrangejient ^^^^ fibres of tlie auricles are distinct from those OK THE Muscular of tlie ventricles. They consist of a superficial Fibres of the layer common to both cavities, and a deeper layer Auricles. proper to each. The sup)erficial fibres run trans- versely across the auricles, and are most marked on the anterior surface; some pass into the inter-auricular septum. Of the deeper fibres, some are annular and surround the auricular appendages and the entrance of the great veins, upon which a few may be traced for a short distance; others, looped, run over the auricles, and are attached in front and behind to the auriculo-ventricular rings. Abrangement . Speaking generally, it may be said that the OF THE Muscular right and left ventricles of the heart are two Fibres of the conical muscular sacs, enclosed in a third, which Ventricms. j^q^ Qjjy. ejjygiopes them, but is reflected into the interior of both, at their apices, so as to line their cavities. All the muscular fibres are attached by one end to the fibrous rings of the orifices, and, by the other end, after a more or less spiral course, they reach the rings again, either directly or through the medium of the chordte tendinete and valves. The external or superficial fibres pass from the base, where they are attached to the auriculo-ventricular rings, to the apex. This layer is thin in front, but behind it is better marked, and here the fibres do not pass into the septum, but over it, while in front they pass over the anterior septum, only at the base and apex of the ventricle. The fibres run more or less spirally towards the apex, where they form a whorl and pass into the left ventricle, so as to form, in part the innermost vertical muscular layer, in part the fleshy columns of its cavity. The superficial anterior fibres pass backwards to the left, and form, behind, the posterior papillary muscle ; and, on the other hand, the superficial posterior fibres pass over the right side of the heart and constitute the anterior papillary muscle. The remaining fibres of the left ventricle, which constitute its chief thickness, are attached to the fibrous rings at the base of the heart. They pass, more or less obliquely, in the posterior and anterior walls, and entering the lower end of the septum pass in three different directions: one set, upwards in the septum to be p 2