POPLITEAL SPACE. lower border of the popliteus, it is continued under the name of the posterior tibial. The nerve in the popliteal space lies superficial to and rather external to the artery, and gives off four or five muscular branches which supply the two heads of the gastrocnemius, the plan- taris, the soleus, and the popliteus ; three articular branches, two accompanying the internal superior and inferior articu.lar arteries, the third piercing the back of the capsule accompanied by the azygos artery; and the short or external saphenous, which descends in the groove between the two heads of the gastrocnemius, is joined about the middle of the leg by the communicans peronei, and then, run- ning down behind the outer malleolus in company with the external saphena vein, is distributed to the outer side of the foot and the little toe. The continuation of the internal popliteal nerve, as posterior tibial, supplies all the flexor muscles on the back of the leg and the sole of the foot. Popliteal By clearing out all the fat, we observe that the Vessels. popliteal vessels enter the ham through an aperture in the adductor magnus, and descend close to the back part of the femur, and the back of the knee-joint. At first they are partially overlapped (in muscular subjects) by the semimembranosus ; in- deed the outer border of this muscle is a good guide to the artery in the operation of tying it. The j)opliteal artery lies upon the tri- angular surface at the back of the lower third of the femur ; then, upon the ligamentum posticum Winslowii; and, lastly, upon the popliteus, at the lower border of which it divides into the anterior and posterior tibial. Superficial to the artery are the semimembranosus, a consider- able amount of fat, the gastrocnemius, the planturis, the soleus, the popliteal vein, and the internal popliteal nerve ; internally, it has the semimembranosus, the internal condyle of the femur, and the inner head of the gastrocnemius ; externally, it has the biceps, the external condyle, the outer head of the gastrocnemius, and the plantaris. The artery gives off the external and internal superior articular arteries; lower down, the external and internal inferior articular arteries, the superim' and inferior muscular branches, the azygos, and cutaneous h-anches. The description of these branches of the