GUSTATORY NERVE. 141 moutli near tlie last molar tootli of tlie lower jaw. Division of it in this situation relieves pain in cancer of tlie tongue. The gus- tatory n. then rests upon the stylo-glossus and the hyo-glossus m., and after crossing Wharton's duct passes to the tip of the tongue. The nerve at first lies in front of the inferior dental nerve (with which it is frequently connected), and beneath the internal maxillary a. Beneath the external pterygoid, the gustatory n. is joined at an acute angle by the cliorda tymixmi (a branch of the facial). This branch emerges through a small canal, canal of Tlnguier, by the side of the Glaserian fissure, and passing behind the dental n., meets the gustatory, and runs along the lower border of this nerve to supply the submaxillary gland; part of it joins the submaxillary ganglion, and it is then eventually distributed to the lino-ualis muscle. The gustatory nerve in its course gives off"— a. Communicating branches to the hypoglossal n., forming two or more loops at the anterior border of the hyo-glossus muscle. b. Communicating branches to the submaxillary ganglion. c. Branches to the mucous 'membrane of the mouth, gums, and sub- lingual gland. d. Lingi al branches which pass to the-papillae of the sides and tip of the tongue : here also we find communications between this nerve and the hypoglossal. The duct of the submaxillary gland (p. 94), Wharton's duct, can now be traced to its termination. It passes from its under surface, runs forwards under the mylo-hyoideus and upon the hyo-glossus muscle; it then passes beneath the gustatory nerve, and subse- quently runs between the sublingual gland and the genio-hyo- glossus, to open into the floor of the mouth, by the side of the frtenum lingnte. Its length is about two inches ; its dimensions are not equal throughout; it is dilated aboiit the middle, and contracted at the orifice. Saliva, collected in the dilated portion, is sometimes spirted to a considerable distance out of the narrow orifice, in con- sequence of the sudden contraction of the neighbouring muscles. The gland is supplied with nerves by branches from the sub- maxillary ganglion, from the sympathetic, and the mylo-hyoid nerves.