100 STYLO-MAXILLARY LIGAMENT. tlie cligastricus, the submaxillary gland, the submental artery, and. the mylo-hyoidean n. By its deep surface, it is in relation with part of the hyo-glossus, the stylo-glossus, the genio-hyoideus, Wharton's duct, the gustatory and hypoglossal nerves with their communications, and the sublingual gland. It is supplied mth nerves by the mylo-hyoid branch of the inferior dental; with blood by the submental artery. The muscles of opposite sides conjointly elevate the os hyoides and the floor of the mouth—as in degluti- tion. Stylo-MAxiL- This is a layer of the deep cervical fascia, ex- L.UIY Ligament. tending from the angle of the jaw to the styloid process. It is a broad sheet of fascia, and separates the submax- illary gland from the parotid. It is continuous with the fascia covering the pharynx ; this gives it a surgical interest, because it prevents accumulations of matter formed near the tonsils and upper part of the pharynx from coming to the surface. The remaining objects seen in the submaxillary triangle— namely, the jDarotid gland, the hypoglossal nerve, the hyo-glossus muscle—will be described presently when they can'be better seen. Your attention should now be directed to a piece of surgical ana- tomy, which will enable you readily to find and tie the lingual artery. It is this :— A curved incision, about two inches in length, being made from the lesser coruu along the upper border of the great cornu of the OS hyoides, through the skin, the platysma, and the cervical fascia, you will come upon the lower edge of the submaxillary gland. Lift up the gland, which is easUy done, and underneath it you will observe that the tendon of the digastricus makes two sides of a triangle, of which the base is formed by the hypoglossal nerve crossing the hyo-glossus muscle. Within this little triangle, cut transversely through the fibres of the hyo-glossus : under them is the lingual artery, lying on the middle constrictor. The first time vou perform this operation on the dead subject, you will not un- likelv miss the artery and cut through the middle constrictor into the pharynx. The facial vessels must now be divided imme- DissECTioN. cliately below the jaw. Reflect the anterior belly of the digastricus from its insertion; detach the mylo-hyoideus