300 ATLO-AXIAL LIGAMENTS. sides of the condyles of tlie occiput. Their use is to limit the rotation of the head. A tJdrd or middle odontoid ligament passes from the apex of the odontoid process to the margin of the foramen magnum. It is sometimes called the lie/amentum susijensorium. Articulation "^^.^^ ^. lo^t&X'aH ginglymus or diar- BETWEEN THE throsis rotatorla, and is maintained by the foUow- Atlas and the iug ligaments : two anterior atlo-axial, a posterior atlo-axial, two capsular, and a transverse. The two anterior ligaments consist of a superficial and a deep portion: the sujyerftcial is a rounded ligament passing from the tubercle of the atlas to the base of the odontoid process; the deejj passes as a membranous layer from the anterior arch of the atlas to the body of the axis. The posterior ligament extends from the posterior arch of the atlas to the upper border of the lamina of the axis. The capsular ligaments are thin loose ligamentous sacs connect- ing the borders of the articular surfaces. The transverse ligament (fig. 71) passes transversely behind the odontoid process, and is attached to the tubercles on the inner sides of the articular processes of the atlas. From the centre of this ligament a few fibi-es pass upwards, to be attached to the basilar process, and some downwards to the body of the axis, giving it a cruciform appearance. Thus it forms with the atlas a ring, into which the odontoid process is received. If this transverse ligament be divided, vve observe that the odontoid process is covered with cartilage in front and behind, and is provided with two synovial membranes. The ribs articulate by their heads with the bodies of the dorsal vertebrae; by their necks and tubercles with the transverse pro- cesses of the vertebrae, and by their cartilages with the sternum in front. The head of each rib presents two articular sur- AbTICOLATIONS t j_ 1 t r- 1 OF THE Heads of faces, correspondmg to the bodies of two vertebrae. THE EiBs WITH Therc are two distinct articulations, each provided THE Bodies op yf'it\i a separate synovial membrane. The ligaments THE Vektebb.^;. are— 1. An anterior costo-central or stellate, which connects the front