705 THE KNEE-JOINT. and is reflected on to tlie femur a variable distance above the in- crusting cartilage; traced from the femur, we find that it lines the inner surface of the capsular ligament as far as the circumference of the tibia; thence it is reflected over the upper surfaces of the semilunar cartilages, round their inner concave mai'gins to get to their under surfaces, from which the membrane passes to cover the articular surface of the head of the tibia. It forms tubular pro- longations round the crucial ligaments, and below the patella a slender band of the synovial membrane proceeds backwards to the space between the condyles, and is called the ligamentum mucosum. ISvo lateral folds, extending from the sides of the mucous ligament, pass upwards and outwards to the sides of the patella; these are termed the ligamenta alaria. These are not true ligaments, but merely remnants of the partition which, in the early stage of the joint's growth, divided it into two equalJportions. Outside the synovial membrane there is always fat; especially under the ligamentum patella. Its use is to fill up vacuities, and to mould itself to the several movements of the joint. The movements which the knee-joint permits are those of flexion and extension, together with rotation outwards and inwards. In order completely to master its various movements, the student should examine the movements first as between the femur and the patella, and then as between the condyles of the femur and the articular surface of the tibia crowned by its two semilunar carti- lages. The articular surface of the patella glides upon the femoral - I condyles in extension and in flexion. If this surface of the patella i be examined, it will be seen that each lateral facet is subdivided by two indistinct transverse ridges into three very shallow transverse zones; each of these zones rests upon a definite part of the trochlear surface of the femur in the difierent stages of extension or flexion: thus, in extreme extension, the lower zones of the patella rest upon the upper border of the trochlear surface; in mid-flexion, the middle zones alone rest on the femur; and in nearly extreme, flexion, the upper zones lie in the lower part of the femoral condyles. In addition to the six shallow facets just described, there is a seventh which is seen on the inner margin. z z