381 CIRCUMFLEX NERVE. heads of the triceps, the circumflex vessels and nerve, and the neck and upper part of the humerus. Bui!s\ UNDER The large bursa under the deltoid extends for THE Deltoid, ok some distance beneath the acromion and the coraco- sSuB-ACKOMiAL. acromial ligament, and covers the tendons attached to the great tuberosity of the humerus. It communicates, very rrarely, with the shoulder-joint. Its use is to facilitate the move- tments of the head of the bone under the acromial arch. Posterior ^^^^ artery is given off from the axillary in the cCiRccMTLEx third part of its course ; it runs behind the surgical aAbtery. neck of the humerus, through a quadrilateral open- ing, bounded above by the subscapularis and teres minor; below, by the teres major; externally, by the neck of the humerus ; and internally, by the long head of the triceps (p. 318). Its branches terminate on the tinder surface of the deltoid, anastomosing with the 1 anterior circumflex, acromial thoracic, and suprascapular arteries. From the posterior circumflex, a branch descends in the sub- stance of the long head of the triceps, to inosculate with the supe- rior profunda: this is one of the channels through which the circulation would be carried on, if the axillary were tied in the last part of its course. CiRcrsiFLEx This nerve, a branch of the posterior cord of the SNerve. axiUary plexus, runs with the posterior circumflex artery, through the same quadrilateral space, and then divides into : bwo branches—an upper and a lower. The tipper branch winds r round the neck of the humerus, and supplies the anterior part of the deltoid, and gives off cutaneous branches to supply the skin over its lower part. The loiver branch sends a filament to the teres nainor, one or two to the integuments over the shoulder at its pos- terior part, and terminates in the substance of the deltoid. It also distributes an articular filament, which enters the shoulder-joint in front, below the subscapularis. The proximity of this nerve to the head of the humerus ex- plains the occasional paralysis of the deltoid, after dislocation or fracture of the humerus. The nerve is liable to be injured, if not actually lacerated, by the pressure of the bone. In the summer of 1840, a man was admitted into the hospital with a severe injury