DUE A MATER. 9 bodies, and at tlie margin of tlie foramen magnum. In front it sends downwards a prolongation into tlie foramen caecum ; also numerous small tubular sbeatbs tbrough the foramina in tbe cribriform plate. It further sends a prolongation through the optic foramen, and another through the sphenoidal fissure into the orbit. The dura mater is supplied with nerves by the recurrent branch of the fourth nerve, and by the fifth cranial nerve. Filaments have likewise been traced into it from the sympathetic and from the Gasserian ganglion. Its remarkably tough and fibrous structure adapts it exceed- ingly well to the four purposes which it serves :—1. It forms the internal periosteum of the skull. 2. It forms, for the support of the lobes of the brain, three partitions—namely, the falx cerebri, the falx cerebelli, and the tentorium cerebelli. 3. It forms the sinuses or venous canals which return the blood from the brain. 4. It forms sheaths for the nerves as they leave the skull. Of the partitions formed by the dura mater for the support of the lobes of the brain, two are vertical, and separate, respectively, the two hemispheres of the cerebrum, and those of the cerebellum; the third arches backwards, and supports the posterior lobes of the cerebrum. ^ ^ This partition is named, from its resemblance to the blade of a sickle, falx cerehri. It is received into the longitudinal fissure, and separates the two cerebral hemi- spheres. It begins in a point attached to the crista galli, and gradually becomes broader as it extends backwards. Its upper edge is convex, and attached to the median groove on the inner aspect of the vertex of the skull; its lower margin is concave and free, and runs along the upper aspect of the corpus callosum. From its base or broadest part proceeds the sloping arched par- Tentoktom tition named tentorium cerehelli. This forms an Cerebelli. arch for the support of the posterior lobes of the cerebrum, so that they may not press upon the cerebellum beneath. The tentorium is attached to the transverse ridge of the occipital bone, to the superior border of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and to the posterior and anterior clinoid processes of the