RADIAL ARTERY IN THE PALM. 365 the radial side of the first joint of the finger, and is inserted, by a broad expanded aponeurosis, into the extensor tendon on the dorsal .aspect of the first phalanx of the finger. Their action is to bend the metacarpo-phalangeal joint of the fingers. Being inserted near rlie centre of motion, they can move the fingers with great rapidity. 'As they produce the quick motions of the musician's fingers, they 'Were called by the old anatomists^cZicmaZes. The two ulnar lumbricales are supplied by the deep branch of t,the ulnar nerve; the two radial by the third and fourth digital bbranches of the median nerve. Now cut through all the flexor tendons, and re- move the deep fascia of the palm, to see the deep arch of arteries and its branches.^ Branches of radial artery, sinking into the space between THE Eadiai Ar- the first and second metacarpal bones, and between TEBY IN THE the two heads of the abductor indicis, enters the palm between the inner head of the flexor brevis , and the adductor pollicis, and gives off" three branches—the arteria ..princeps pollicis, the radialis indicis, and the palmaris profunda, swhich" unites with the deep ulnar artery to form the deep arch. The arteria princejos pollicis runs behind the deep head of the flexor brevis pollicis and in front of the abductor indicis (first dorsal inter- 1 osseous), close along the metacarpal bone of the thumb : in the interval between the lower portions of the flexor brevis pollicis, the artery 'divides into two digital branches, which proceed one on either side of the thumb, and inosculate at the apex of the last phalanx. Their i chstribution and mode of termination are like those of the other digital t arteries. The arteria radialis indicis runs betAveen the abductor indicis and adductor pollicis, along the radial side of the index finger to the end, ■ where it forms an arch with the other digital artery, a branch of the ulnar. Near the lower margin of the adductor pollicis, the radialis indicis generally receives a branch from the princeps pollicis, and gives • 1 branch to the superficial palmar arch. The palmai'is iy)'ofunda may be considered as the continuation ' The course and relations of the radial artery as it winds round the wrist will <be described in the dissection of the back of the hand.