DISSECTION OF THE BACK OF THE LEG. 672 by four groups of muscles. In front, are the rectus and sartorius ; on the inner side, the adductors; on the outer side, the gluteus medius and minimus; behind, the hamstrings and gluteus maximus. When the knee is semi-flexed, the semimembranosus can also rotate the leg inwards, thus assisting the popliteus; the biceps can also in the same position of the knee rotate the leg slightly outwards. The hamstring muscles are supplied with blood by the perfo- rating branches of the profunda, which come through the tendon of the adductor magnus close to the femur, and by muscular branches from the popliteal artery. Their nerves are derived from the great sciatic. GBEA.T Sciatic This nerve descends from the gluteal region Nehve. upon the adductor magnus, and, after being crossed by the long head of the biceps, runs along the outer border of the semimembranosus down the popliteal space. The great sciatic divides into its two terminal divisions at a variable distance from its exit through the great sciatic foramen, sometimes high up, occasionally lower down than usual. The further course of this nerve has already been described (p. 665). Deferring the course, relations, and branches of the popliteal artery till this vessel is exposed throughout its whole course, pass on now to the dissection of the calf. DISSECTION OF THE BACK OF THE LEG. SuBFACE The back of the leg gradually narrows from Marking. above downwards so as to form a long cone; the upper half is convex and fleshy, corresponding to the gastrocnemius and the soleus muscles ; the lower half suddenly diminishes, so that the posterior borders of the tibia and fibula can be easily felt extending to their respective malleoli. In a well-developed subject with not much fat the two heads of the gastrocnemius can be seen through the skin, the inner head being the broader and lower of the two; the tendon into which they are inserted (tendo Achillis) rapidly narrows to be attached to the posterior and upper part of