LIGAMENTS OF THE KNEE-JOINT. •701 Ligaments of The knee-joint is a ginglymus or a liinge-joint, THE Knee-joint. and the bones entering into its formation are, above, the condyles of the femur, below, the head of the tibia, and in front, the patella. Looking at the skeleton, one would suppose that it was very insecure; but this insecurity is only apparent, the joint being surrounded by powerful ligaments, and a thick capsule formed by the tendons of the muscles which act upon it. First examine the tendons concerned in the protection of the knee-joint. In front is the ligamentum patellae; on each side are the tendons of the vasti; on the outer side, in addition, it is strengthened by the strong ilio-tibial band ; on the inner side there are also the tendons of the sartorius and gracilis; at the back of the joint are the tendons of the gastrocnemius and plantaris, with the semimembranosus and semitendinosus, in addition, on its inner part, and the tendons of the popliteus and biceps on its outer part. It deserves to be mentioned that the weakest part of the articulation is near the tendon of the popliteus, which arises within the joint: •here, therefore, pus or fluid formed in the popliteal space may make its way into the joint, or vice versa. The ligaments of the joint may be divided into those outside the joint and those within it. Those outside the joint are, the ligamentum patellae, the internal lateral, the two external lateral, the posterior ligament, a,nd the capsular ligament. Those within the joint are, the two crucial, the two semilunar fibro-cartilages, the transverse, the coronary, the ligamenta alaria, and the ligamentum mucosum. Ligamentum The ligamentum patellce is a strong, thick, liga- Patells:. mentous band, about three inches long, extending : from the lower border of the patella to the tubercle of the tibia. Beneath it, is found a considerable amount of fat, which separates ' the ligament from the joint, and in fat people forms a prominent t elastic mass on each side of the ligament. There is a synovial bursa i between the ligamentum patellae and the tuberosity of the tibia. Internal This is a broad, flat band, which extends from 1 Lateral the inner condyle of the femur to the inner tube- 1 Ligament. rosity and the inner aspect of the shaft of the