437 ARTERIES OF THE ABDOMINAL WALLS. sheath of the rectus, enters that muscle, supplying it and anasto- mosing with the deep epigastric. The musGulo^plirenic artenj descends obliquely outwards be- hind the cartilages of the false ribs, and pierces the diaphragm about the ninth rib; it is then continued along the last intercostal space, and terminates in branches for the supply of the abdominal walls. The deep epigastric artery arises from the external iliac, just before this vessel passes under the crural arch to take the name of femoral. It ascends inwards between the fascia transversalis and the peritoneum, forms a gentle curve on the inner side of the internal abdominal ring, and consequently on the inner side of the spermatic cord, and then enters the rectus muscle just below the fold of Douglas, which is the lower arched edge of the posterior sheath of the rectus. The artery runs in the substance of the rectus parallel with the linea alba, and inosculates with the superior epigastric branch of the internal mammary artery. It is accompanied by two veins, of which the larger is on its inner side; these terminate in a single trunk in the external iliac vein. The deep epigastric gives off the following branches :— The pubic is the most important branch. It runs inwards, behind the crural arch, towards the os pubis, behind which it ana- stomoses with the pubic branch of the obturator. Sometimes the obturator artery is absent or small, in which case the pubic branch of the epigastric enlarges and takes the place of the absent vessel. It derives its chief practical interest from the fact that it is liable to be wounded in dividing the stricture in femoral hernia.^ But its size varies in different subjects, and is sometimes so small as to escape observation. The second branch is the cremasteric. It supplies the coverings of the cord, but chiefly the cremaster muscle. After giving off other unnamed muscular tranches, some of which perforate the muscle to supply the skin, the main trunk terminates in the rectus by inosculations with the internal mammary. ' There is a preparation in the Museum of St. Bartholomew's Hospital quite to the point. The patient had profuse hsemorrhage, which commenced five hours after the operation. He died from peritonitis.