823 MUSCLES OF THE TYMPANUM. the insertion of the stapedius. Two diverging crura pass from the head to an oval plate of bone, the hase, which is attached to the membrane covering the fenestra ovalis. The tympanic bones are maintained in their positions by various ligaments. The anterior ligament of the malleus passes from the head of this bone to the anterior wall of the tympanum ; the suspensory ligament descends from the roof of the tympanum outwards to the head of the malleus, and the posterior ligament of the incus passes from the short process to the posterior wall near the mastoid cells. The ossicles are connected by an imperfect capsular ligament, which passes from the long process of the incus to the head of the stapes; and by another which passes from the head of the malleus to the incus. The base of the stapes is attached to the margin of the fenestra ovalis by an annular ligament. The surfaces of the bones forming these two little joints are covered with cartilage. The joints have also synovial membranes. Muscles of The muscles, by moving the tympanic bones, THE Tyjipaitom. tighten or relax the membrana tympani. The tensor tijmpani runs in a canal above and parallel to the Eustachian tube, from the cartilaginous part of which it arises, as well as from the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. It passes backwards, and terminates in a round tendon, which enters the front wall of the tympanum through a special bony canal, and, making a sharp bend outwards, is inserted into the root of the handle of the malleus. Its nerve comes from the otic ganglion. Its action is to draw inwards the head of the malleus, and thus render the membrane tense. The laxator tympani arises from the spinous process of the sphenoid, and the cartilaginous portion of the Eustachian tube, and is inserted into the neck of the malleus close to the root of the processus gracilis. It is supplied by a branch of the facial nerve.' Its action is to relax the membrana tympani. The stapedius arises from the hollow of the pyramid, and its ' This is usually regarded as a muscle, and is described here as such ; no mus- cular fibres, however, can be traced in it, so that it is probably only ligamentous in structure—a fact borne out in the lower animals.