359 MUSCLES OF THE BALL OF THE LITTLE FINGER. and is inserted by a flat tendon into the radial side of the base of the first phalanx of the thumb. Its action is to draw the thumb away from the fingers. Its nerve comes from the median. Reflect it from its insertion to expose the following :— Opponens This muscle arises from the front of the os tra- PoLLicis. pezium beneath the abductor, and from the annular . ligament, and, passing forwards and outwards, is inserted into the • whole length of the radial side of the metacarpal bone of the thumb. • The action of this powerful muscle is to oppose the thumb to all the fingers. Its nerve comes from the median. Reflect it from its ; insertion, to expose the following :— Flexor Brevis This muscle has two origins, between which I PoLLicis. runs the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis : one, : the superficial, from the annular ligament and trapezium ; the other, the deep, from the trapezoid, os magnum, the bases of the second and third metacarpal bones, and the sheath of the tendon of the flexor . carpi radialis. It is inse^ied by two strong tendons into the base of the first phalanx of the thumb; the superficial tendon being . connected with the abductor pollicis, and the deep one with the adductor pollicis. A sesamoid bone is found in each of the tendons. The tendons of insertion of this muscle are separated by the long i flexor tendon of the thnm'b and the arteria magna pollicis. Its ' action is to bend the first phalanx of the thumb. The superficial 1 portion is supplied by the median nerve; the deep, by the ulnar. Adductor Pol- This triangular muscle arises from the palmar ' i-icis. aspect of the shaft of the metacarpal bone of the 1 middle finger ; its fibres converge and are inserted, along with the deep or inner portion of the flexor brevis pollicis, into the base of the first phalanx of the thumb and the internal sesamoid bone. Its action is to draw the thumb towards the palm, as when we bring the tips of the thumb and little finger into contact. It is • supplied by the deep branch of the ulnar nerve, which also supplies the deep head of the flexor brevis pollicis. The other muscles of the ball of the thumb are supplied by the median nerve. Muscles of the The muscles of the little finger correspond in I Ball of the some measure with those of the thumb. Thus 1 Little Finger. there is an abductor, a flexor brevis, and an op-