487 PSOAS AND ILIAC FASCIiE. riglit lumbar arteries, the sympathetic of the right side, and the right phrenic artery; on its left is the aorta, and higher up the right crus. It receives the lumbar veins, the right spermatic (the left joins the renal), the renal, the right supra-renal, the right phrenic, and the hepatic veins which are usually three in number, one each from the right and left lobes, and one from the lobulus Spigelii. The student should now direct his attention to the three large muscles which are seen at the back of the abdomen : the quadratus lumborum situated between the last rib and the crest of the ilium; the iliacus occupying the iliac fossa; and the psoas magnus passing from the sides of the lumbar vertebrae, along the brim of the pelvis, and beneath Poupart's ligament, to be inserted into the lesser tro- chanter of the femur. The nerves shoidd at the same time be cleaned, and, if more convenient, the student might dissect the muscles on one side, and the nerves and arteries on the other. ^ ^ The fascia covering the iliacus and psoas muscles is seen to be thin above and thicker below. It consists of two portions, the psoas and the iliac fascia. The psoas fascia is attached to the sides of the lumbar vertebras and their intervertebral cartilages, internally to the sacrum, and above to the ligamentum arcuatum internum ; externally it is thinner, and is continuous with the fascia lumborum. It is this sheath which determines the ordinary course of a psoas abscess—namely, be- neath the crural arch into the upper part of the thigh j for it is a rare exception when the matter travels into the pelvis. „ The iliac fascia covers the iliacus muscle, and Iliac Fascu. i t t • attached to the inner lip oi the crest oi the ilium, and to the brim of the pelvis, through its connection with the sheath of the psoas and the tendinous insertion of the psoas parvus. Its most important attachment is to the outer half of the crural arch, and it is here directly continuous with the fascia transversalis (p. 435), so that together they present an effectual barrier to the escape of intestine beneath this part of the arch.' On the inner half of Poupart's ligament, these two fasciee are separated by the femoral vessels, so that the fascia transversalis ' The iliac fossm are liable to be the seat of suppuration, and the course which the pus takes depends upon its position with regard to the iliac fascia. If the