544 SACRAL PLEXUS OF NERVES. Sacral Five sacral nerves proceed from the spinal coi'd Neeves. tlirougli the anterior sacral forainina. I'lie upper four, from their large size, at once attract observation; but tlie fifth is small: it perforates the coccygeus muscle, supj)lying it and the skin over the coccyx. Sacrai, The anterior divisions of three upper sacral Plexus. nerves, and part of the fourth, with the lumbo- sacral cord, form the sacral plexus. The great nerves of this plexus lie on the anterior surface of the pyriformis, covered by the pelvic fascia, which separates it from the branches of the internal Uiac vessels and the pelvic viscera. The large cords, diminishing in size from above downwards, converge from the sacral foramina to the great sacro-sciatic foramen, where they coalesce to form a broad flat cord, which passes out of the pelvis beneath the pyri- formis muscle, for the supply of the flexor muscles of the inferior extremity. Before describing the branches of the sacral plexus, it will be best to trace those sacral and coccygeal nerves which do not enter into the formation of the sacral plexus. The lower part of the fourth sacral nerve lies on the coccygeus muscle, and divides into muscular and visceral branches, sending a filament downwards to join the fifth sacral nerve. It distributes branches to the pelvic viscera, and muscular twigs to the levator ani, the coccygeus, and sphincter, the latter of which also furnishes a small cutaneous filament to the skin between the bone and the anus. The fifth sacral nerve emerges between the sacrum and th^ coccyx, pierces the coccygeus, and lies on its anterior surface. It is joined by a twig from the fourth sacral, and, after running a short distance, pierces the coccygeus again, and is distributed to the skin over the back of the coccyx. It communicates with the coccygeal nerve, and supplies the coccygeus muscle. The coccygeal nerve, not easily found, emerges through the end of the sacral canal, and comes forwards through the coccygeus, be- tween the first and second pieces of the coccyx. It pierces the great sacro-sciatic ligament, and, after receiving the communicating twiff from the fifth sacral nerve, it passes backwards to supply