BRANCHES OF THE ULNAR ARTERY. 349 Observe that the ulnar artery, in the lower third of its course, lies under the radial border of the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, which is the surgical guide to the vessel. The artery is accompanied by two veins, which join the venae comites of the brachial. The ulnar artery gives off the following branches in the fore- arm :— a. The anterior and posterior ulnar recurrent arteries arise imme- diately below the elbow-joint,—sometimes by a common trunk. The anterior passes upwards between the brachialis anticus and the pronator teres, and inosculates with the mferior profunda and anastomotica magna. The posterior, the larger, ascends between the flexor sublimis and the flexor profundus digitorum, to the space between the internal condyle and the olecranon : it then passes up between the two heads of the flexor carpi ulnaris, where it inosculates with the inferior profunda, the anastomotica magna, and, above the olecranon, with the posterior interosseous recurrent (p. 333). b. The common interosseous artery is about half an inch long. It arises from the ulnar, just below the tubercle of the radius, and soon divides into the anterior and posterior interosseous, which we shall examine presently. c. The muscular branches which supply the muscles on the ulnar side of the forearm. d. The carpal branches are given off" just above the pisiform bone : the posterior carpal runs beneath the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris and the extensor tendons, and forms, with the corresponding branch of the radial artery, an arch, from which are usually given off the second and third dorsal interosseous arteries : these anastomose with the per- forating arteries. The anterior carpal runs in front of the carpus, beneath the flexor tendons, supplies the synovial membrane and the ligaments, and anastomoses with the anterior carpal from the radial. ^ ^ ^ This nerve runs behind the internal condyle, between two origins of the flexor carpi ulnaris. In its course down the ulnar side of the upper part of the forearm, the nerve is stiU covered by this muscle, and lies upon the flexor profundus digitorum. About the middle of the forearm, the nerve joins the ulnar artery, and runs along its inner side over the anterior annular ligament into the palm.