375 SUPEASCAPULAR ARTERY. the larger number of the fibres being inserted into a tendinous arch, -wliicli is chiefly attached to the inferior angle. The action of these muscles is to draw the scapula upwards and backwards. They are the antagonists of the serratus magnus. The nerve of tlie rhomhoid muscles (posterior scapular) is a : branch of the fifth cervical. It passes outwards beneath the lower part of the levator anguli scapulae, to which it sends a branch, and , is lost in the under surface of the rhomboidei. This muscle extends from the scapula to the Ouo-HYorDEtrs. , ., t ■•,<?. 1 OS hyoides, and consists oi two long narrow mus- : cular portions, connected by an intermediate tendon beneath the > sterno-mastoid. The posterior portion only can be seen in the pre- sent dissection. It arises from the upper border of the scapula, close behind the notch, and from the transverse ligament above the notch. Thence the slender muscle passes forwards across the lower part of the neck, beneath the sterno-mastoid, where it changes its direc- I tion and ascends nearly vertically, to be attached to the os hyoides at the junction of the body with the greater cornu (p. 79). Thus ■ the two portions of the muscle form, beneath the sterno-mastoid, an obtuse angle, of which the apex is tendinous, and of which the ; angular direction is maintained by a layer of fascia, proceeding from the tendon to the first rib and the clavicle. Its action is to depress the os hyoides. Its nerve comes from the descendens noni and the communicantes noni (p. 110). SuPEAscAPTJLAB This artcry (transversalis humeri), a branch of Aeteby. , the thyroid axis (p. 121), runs behind and parallel V with the clavicle, over the lower end of the scalenus anticus and !• subclavian artery, and beneath the sterno-mastoid and omo-hyoid : muscles, to the upper border of the scapula, where it usually passes above the ligament bridging over the notch. It ramifies in the • supraspinous fossa, supplying the supraspinatus, and then passes under the acromion to the infraspinous fossa, where it inosculates freely with the dorsalis scapula3, a branch of the subscapular. It sends off— a. The inferior sterno-mastoid artery to the sterno-mastoid and contiguous muscles ; b. the siqjra-acromial branch, which ramifies upon the acromion, anastomosing with the other acromial arteries