10 GLANDULjE tacchioni. sphenoid. In front there is a large oval opening to allow of the passage of the crura cerebri. The small median partition which Falx Cerebelli ^^P^^^*®s lobes of the cerebellum is called the falx cerehelli. It is placed vertically in the same plane with the falx cerebri, and its point is downwards towards the foramen magnum. As it approaches the foramen it usually divides into two small folds. Glandulje In the neighbourhood of the superior longitu- Pacchioni. dinal sinus, we meet with small white elevated granulations, sometimes arranged singly, sometimes in clusters, which are received into the depressions on the inner aspect of the skull-cap. They are termed glandulce Pacchioni,^ and are found in four situations :—1. On the outside of the dura mater, close to the superior longitudinal sinus, and so large as to occasion depressions in the bones. 2. Along the margin of the fissure of Sylvius. 3. On the surface of the pia mater. 4. In the interior of the superior longitudinal sinus, covered by its lining membrane. 5. On the poste- rior and antero-inferior parts of the posterior lobe of the cerebrum. They are due to an increased growth of the villi, which are normally found in the arachnoid membrane, and make their way, through the dura mater or the pia mater, to the different situations in which they are found. The greatest growth takes place from the visceral layer, as may be seen in the dissection of the brain. These bodies are not found at birth, but usually commence their growth about the third year, and are always found at the seventh year, after which they gradually increase as life advances.^ Sinuses of the It is one of the peculiarities of the cerebral cir- DuEA Matek. culation, that the blood is returned through canals or sinuses formed by the dura mater. These canals are produced by a splitting of the dura mater into two layers as shown in fig. 4, where 1 represents a vertical section through the superior longitu- dinal sinus. They are lined by the same smooth membrane con- tinuous with that of the venous system. Since their walls consist of unyielding structure, and are always on the stretch, it is obvious > After the Italian anatomist who first described them, in 1705. 2 It is stated that when fluid is injected into the subarachnoid space it passes into the Pacchionian bodies.