PNEUMOGASTRIC NERVE. 267- the canal, it is composed of a number of separate filaments, wliich are soon collected into a single trunk. In the jugular foramen, tlie nerve presents a ganglionic enlargement, called tlie ganglion of the root; and after the nerve has emerged from the jugular foramen, it presents a second ganglion—the ganglion of the trunk of the nerve —where it is joined by the accessory portion of the spinal accessory nerve.^ The ganglion of the root is about ^th of an inch in length. It is connected by filaments with the sympathetic through the superior cervical ganglion, with the petrous ganglion of the glosso- pharyngeal, with the auricular branch of the facial, and with the spinal accessory by one or two branches. It gives off the auriculoA- branch,^ which is distributed to the pinna of the ear. This branch, shortly after its origin, is joined by a branch from the petrous gan- glion of the glosso-pharyngeal, and, passing outwards behind the internal jugular vein, it enters a minute foramen in the jugular fossa near the styloid process. It then proceeds through a canal in the bone, crosses the aqueeductus Fallopii, where it communicates with the facial nerve, and passes to the outside of the skull through the fissure between the mastoid process and the meatus auditorius externus. It here divides into two branches, one being distributed to the skin of the auricle, and communicating with the great auri- cular nerve; the other communicating with the posterior auricular branch of the facial over the mastoid process. This ganglion also sends backwards a meningeal branch, which passes through the jugular foramen to be distributed to the dura mater of the posterior fossa (fig. 63). The ganglion of the trimk has communications with the hypo- glossal nerve, with the loop formed between the first and second cervical nerves, and with the superior cervical ganglion of the sym- pathetic. It gives off, as branches of distribution, the pharyngeal and superior laryngeal nerves. This has been previously described (p. 147). Facial Nebve The facial nerve is contained within the meatus iJ^THE auditorius internus, together with the auditory Temporal Bone. ^^^^^^ bottom of the meatus the two ' Arnold, Bcr Kopftheil dcs Veget. Nerven Systems. Heidelberg, 1831. * Arnold's nerve.