263 OTIC GANGLION. through the pterygo-palatine canal with its corresponding artery, sup- plies the mucous membrane of the back of the pharynx and the Eusta- chian tube. The Vidian nerve is the principal branch. It proceeds backwards from the posterior part of the ganglion, through the Vidian canal, where it distributes small branches to the back part of the roof of the nose and septum. It then traverses the fibro-cartilage of the foramen lacerum medium, and divides into two branches. Of these two branches, one, the larger—the carotid—joins the sympathetic plexus on the outer side of the internal carotid artery; the other, the great petrosal, enters the cranium, and runs beneath the Grasserian ganglion and the dura mater in a small groove on the anterior surface of the petrous bone : it then enters the hiatus Pallopii, and joins the facial nerve in the aquseductus Fallopii. It would seem to be more in accordance with modem views to regard the Vidian nerve, not as dividing to form the carotid and great super- ficial petrosal branches, but rather as formed by the junction of these branches. In this view, the Vidian runs, not from, but to, the spheno- palatine ganglion. The otic ganglion (Arnold's •) is situated on the Otic Ganglion. . -j vj-t • r • -n v • • jy J.^ inner side or the mierior maxillary division of the fifth nerve, immediately below its exit through the foramen ovale (fig. 62). It is oval, of reddish-grey colour, and always small. Its inn&r surface is in contact with the circumflexus palati muscle and the cartilage of the Eustachian tube ; behind it, is the middle menin- geal artery ; externally, it is in relation with the inferior maxillary nerve, where the motor root joins the sensory root. This ganglion has branches of connection with other nerves; namely, a sensory from the auriculo-temporal nerve; a motor from the branch of the inferior maxillary, which goes to the internal pterygoid muscle; and a sympatlietiG from the plexus around the arteria meningea media. It communicates also with the facial and the glosso-pharyngeal nerves by the lesser petrosal nerve. This branch passes backwards, either through the foramen ovale or the foramen spinosum, or through a small hole between them, and runs beneath the dura mater in a minute groove on the petrous bone, external to that for the great "petrosal nerve. Here it divides into two filaments, one of which joins the facial nerve in the aquseductus ' J. Arnold, Diss. Inazig. Med., <fec. Heidelbergee, 1826.