INTERNAL MAMMARY ARTERY. 159 of the anterior portion of the transversalis abdominis. Its action is to draw down the costal cartilages, and thus it acts in expiration. Its nerves come from the intercostal nerves, its arteries from the internal mammary. Internal Mam- This artery is given off from the subclavian in 3IARY Abteby. the first part of its course opposite the thyroid axis. It passes down behind the clavicle, and on entering the chest it lies between the cartilage of the first rib and the pleura, and is crossed by the phrenic nerve. It then descends perpendicularly, about half an inch from the sternum, lying on the pleura and behind the costal cartilages; lower down it gets between the carti- lages of the ribs and the triangularis sterni, as far as the seventh costal cartilage, where it divides into two branches, the miisculo- plirenic and the superior epigastric. The latter branch then enters the wall of the abdomen behind the rectus abdominis, and finally inosculates with the deep epigastric (a branch of the external iliac). The branches of the internal mammary are as follows:— a. Arteria comes nervi phrenici.—A very slender artery, which accompanies the phrenic nerve between the pleura and pericardium to the diaphragm, and anastomoses with the phrenic branches of the abdominal aorta, and internal mammary. h. Mediastinal, 2)ericardiac, sternal, and thymic.—These branches supply the cellular tissue of the anterior mediastinum, the pericardium, and the triangularis sterni. The thymic are only visible m childhood, and disappear with the thymus gland. c. Anterior intercostal.—Two for each intercostal space are distributed to the five or six upper intercostal spaces. They pass outwards, and lie at first between the pleura and the internal intercostal muscle, and subsequently between the two intercostals. They inosculate with the intercostal arteries from the aorta. d. The perforatiny arteries pass through the same num ber of inter- costal spaces as the preceding branches, and supply the pectoral muscle and skin of the chest. In the female they are of large size (especially the third), to supply tlie mammary gland. e. The mtiscido-phrenic branch runs outwards beliind tlie cartilages of the false ribs, pierces the attachment of the diaphragm, and termi- nates near the last intercostal space. It supplies small branches to the