405 THE SHOULDER-JOINT. LiGAMEKTs OP ITiese are two: the coraco-acromial or triangular THE ScAPDL.4.. ligament, attaclied by its apex to the tip of the acromion process, and by its base to the outer border of the coracoid process; it is separated from the upper part of the capsule of the shoulder-joint by a large bursa ; and the transverse or cora- coid ligament, which passes across the suprascapular notch, con- verting it into a foramen. The suprascapular vessels pass over the foramen, the suprascapular nerve through it. Shotjlber- The articular surface of the head of the humerus, JorsT. forming rather more than one-third of a sphere, moves upon the shallow glenoid cavity of the scapula, which is of an oval form, with the broader end downwards, and the long diameter nearly vertical. The security of the joint depends, not upon any mechanical contrivance of the bones, but upon the great strength and number of the ligaments and tendons which svirround and are intimately connected with it. It is an enarthrodial, or ball-and- socket joint. To admit the free motion of the head of the humerus upon the glenoid cavity, it is requisite that the capsxdar ligament of the joint be loose and capacious. Accordingly, the head of the bone, when ■detached from its muscular connections, may be separated from the glenoid cavity to the extent of an inch or more, without laceration of the capsule. This explains the elongation of the arm observed in some cases in which effusion takes place into the joint; also in cases of paralysis of the deltoid. The ca'psular ligament is attached above, round the circumference of the glenoid cavity; below, round the anatomical neck of the humerus. It is strongest on its upper aspect, weakest and long- est on its lower. It is strengthened on its upper and posterior part by the tendons of the siipraspinatus, infraspinatus, and teres minor ; its inner part is strengthened by the broad tendon of the subscapularis and the coraco-humeral ligament; its lower part, by the long head of the triceps. Thus the circumference of the capside is surrounded by tendons on every side, excepting a small space towards the axilla. If the humerus be raised, it will be found that the head of the bone rests upon this unprotected portion of the capsule, between the tendons