82 RELATIONS OF THE COMMON CAROTID ARTERY. ficiiil, and is covered by the integument, platysma, tlie cervical fasciaa, the middle sterno-mastoid artery, and only slightly over- lapped by the sterno-mastoid. Lying upon the sheath of the artery, we find the descendens noni joined by the communi- cantes noni nerves. The sheath is crossed by the facial, the superior, and middle thyroid veins, and lower down by the anterior jugular vein, all of which empty themselves into the internal jugular. This is the general rule, and especial attention should be directed to it, because the veins are liable to be overlooked and injured in the operation of tying the carotid. To the inner side of the artery we find the trachea, the thyroid body, the recurrent laryngeal nerve, the inferior thyroid artery, the external laryngeal nerve, the inferior constrictor of the pharynx, and the larynx. On the outer side are the pneumogastric nerve and the internal jugu- lar vein. Behind the artery are the sympathetic nerve, the inferior thyroid artery, the recurrent laiyngeal nerve; and lastly, the carotid sheath lies successively upon the longus colli and the rectus capitis anticus major muscles.* The common carotid may be ligatured either above or below the omo-hyoid. It is most accessible above the point where this muscle crosses; and therefore, if the surgeon has his choice, he would prefer to tie the vessel in this situation. In the higher operation we make an incision, three inches in length, along the inner border of the sterno-mastoid, the centre of the incision being opposite the cricoid cartilage : we cut through the skin, superficial fascia, platysma, deep cervical fascia, when we come to the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid. The ovei'lapping edge of this muscle ' It is important that we should be aware that the common carotids vary occa- Bionally in their origin. Thus the right may arise in common with the left carotid, or the right may arise separately from the arch of the aorta, in which case the right subclavian is usually transposed. The left may be given off from the in- nominate artery of the right side, or it may arise in common with the left subclavian, and thus form a left innominate. In transposition of the aorta there is a left innominate, which is given off first, the right carotid and the right subcla^•ian arising as separate branches from the arch. The place of di^'ision of the common carotid is subject to considerable variation : it may divide higher or lower than usual, the former being the more frequent. Earely there has been no common carotid artery, the external and internal arising as separate branches from the arch of the aorta.