784. MEMBRANES OF THE SPESTAL COKD. SO that there is a considerable interval between them (subarachnoid sjoace), which is occupied by a transparent watery fluid (cerebro- spinal fluid) contained in the meshes of tlie subarachnoid tissue. The separation between the arachnoid and the pia mater varies in different parts, and is greatest in the lowest part of the cord. Ceeehuo- This cerehro-spinal fluid cannot be demonstrated Spinal Fluid. unless the cord be examined very soon after death, and before the removal of the brain.' The nerves proceeding from the cord are loosely surrounded by a sheath of the arachnoid; but this only accompanies them as far as the dura mater, where the two are continuous. The cerebro-spinal fluid of the cord com- municates with that of the brain, and also with the general ventricu- lar cavity through an aperture in the lower boundary of the fourth ventricle, called the foramen of Magendie. Pia Matek "^^^ mater of the cord is the protecting membrane which immediately invests it. It is very different in structure from that of the brain, since it does not constitute a membrane in which the arteries break up, but serves rather to support and strengthen the cord; consequently, it is much less vascular, more fibrous in its structure, and more adhe- rent to the substance of the cord. It sends down thin folds into the anterior and posterior median fissures of the cord, and is pro- ' The existence and situation of the cerebro-spinal fluid were first discovered by Haller, Element. Phijs. vol. iv. p. 87, and subsequently more minutely investigated by Magendie, Reclierches Phys. et Cliiiiques sur la Liquide Cephalo-rachidien, m-i°, avec atlas : Paris, 1842. This physiologist, has shown that if, during life, the arches of the vertebrre are removed in a horse, dog, or other animal, and the dura mater of the cord punctured, there issue jets of a fluid which had jDreviously made the sheath tense. The fluid communicates, through the fourth ventricle, with that in the general ventricular cavity. The collective amount of the fluid varies from 1 to 2 oz. or more. It can be made to flow from the brain into the cord, or vice versa. This is proved by experiments on animals, and by that pathological condi- tion of the spine in children termed spina bifida. In the later instance, coughing and crying make the tumour swell; shelving that fluid is forced into it from the ventricles. Again, if pressure be made on the tumour with one hand and the fontanelles of the child examined with the other, in proportion as the spinal swelling decreases so is the brain felt to swell up, accompanied by symptoms resulting from pressure on the nervous axis generally. See some remarks very much to the point by Sir George Burrows, On Diseases of the Cerebral Circulation, p. 50, 1846.