335 BRANCHES OF THE BRACHIAL ARTERY. insertion of the coraco-brachialis, or sometimes by a common trunk witli the superior profunda. It runs with the ulnar nerve on the inner liead of the triceps (which it supplies), passes through the internal intermuscular septum, and then descends to the interval between the internal concf^le and the olecranon, inosculating with the posterior ulnar recurrent and anastomotica magna arteries. It also sends a small branch down in front of the internal condyle to anastomose with the anterior ulnar recurrent. c. The nutrient artery of the humerus arises sometimes from the bracliial, sometimes from the inferior profunda. It pierced the tendon of the coraco-brachialis, runs obliquely downwards through the bone, and in the medullary canal divides into ascending and descending- branches, which anastomose with the nutrient vessels of the bone derived from the periosteum. d. The anastomotica magna arises from the inner side of the brachial, about two inches above the elbow, runs tortuously inwards transversely across the brachialis anticus, and divides into branches, some of which pass in front of the internal condyle, anastomosing with the anterior ulnar recurrent artery; another passes beliind the internal condyle by piercing the internal inteiTnuscular septum, and anastomoses with the inferior profunda and jjosterior ulnar recurrent arteries ; and one 1 branch fonns an arch, above the olecranon fossa, with the superior profimda. e. Numerous muscular branches arise from the outer side of the ! brachial artery : one of these, the bicipital, more constant than the rest, supplies the biceps ; another runs transversely beneath the coraco- '■ brachialis and biceps, over the insertion of the deltoid, supplying this 1 muscle and the brachialis anticus. „ The two veins which accompany the brachial tev^ Coshtes artery are continuations of the deep radial and ulnar veins. The internal is usually the larger, and generally receives the veins corresponding to the principal branches of the artery. In tlieir course they are connected at intervals by tranS' verse branches either in front of, or behind the artery. Near the subscapularis, the vena comes externa crosses obliquely in front of the axillary artery to join the vena comes interna, which then takes the name of axillary. Now trace the great nerves of the upper arm, which proceed •from the brachial plexus near the tendon of the subscapularis :