STRUCTURE OF THE CEREBRUM. 773 of the roots of the auditory nerves. The lower part of the floor^ on each side, is mapped out into three surfaces by a triangular depression, fovea inferior (fig. 190, li), having its apex at the trans- verse strife, and its base below at the posterior pyramids. On the outer side of the fovea, there is a convex triangular surface, with its base upwards (fig. 190, g), called the tubercuhim amsticum; on the inner side of the fovea, and bounded internally by the median groove, is the rounded triangular surface which marks the com- mencement of the fasciculus teres. Towards the base of the infe- rior fovea there is a dark surface of grey matter called the ala cinerea, which becomes raised into an eminence (eminentia cinerea). The upper part of the fourth ventricle is that portion between the acoustic stria3 and the iter a tertio ad quartiim ventriculum. The median groove is still continued upwards, although it becomes fainter, and on each side of it is the parallel rounded eminence, the fasciculus teres. Outside this fasciculus is a triangular depres- sion, the fovea superim-; and passing upwards under cover of the superior cerebellar peduncle, we notice a depression of grey sub- stance, called the locus cceruleus. The lower part of the foiirth ventricle is developed from the metencephalic, the upper part from the epencephalic, portion of the posterior primary vesicle.' Structure of The white substance of the cerebrum consists THE Cerebrum. of meduUated fibres, which are, as a rule, smaller than those in the spinal cord. The general arrangement of the fibres may be classified under three heads: 1. The diverging or peduncular fibres. 2. The transverse commissiiral fibres; and, 3. The longitudinal fibres. The diverging or ■p&diincular fibres are derived partly from the crusta, and partly from the tegmentum of the crus cerebri. Those from the crusta pass forwards and outwards between the nucleus caudatus and nucleus lenticularis with the internal capsule, and in ' Tieclemann proposed to call the fourth ventricle the first, because in the fcetus it is formed sooner than any of the others; because it exists in all verte- brated animals, whereas the lateral ventricles are absent in all osseous fishes ; and because the ventricle of the septum lucidum is absent in all fishes, in reptiles, and in birds.