104 LINGUAL NERVE. It also sends a nerve to the tliyro-liyoideus, which proceeds from it where it crosses over the external carotid, accompanied by the hyoid branch of the lingual artery. Near the anterior border of the hyo-glossus, it communicates by several loops with the gusta- tory nerve. (I^ig. 29.) The hypoglossal at its origin is purely a motor nerve. But after leaving the skull, it receives communications from the first tAvo cervical nerves. These communications are important jDhj-sio- logically for two reasons : 1. They account for the hyjjoglossal nerve containing sensory fibres. 2. They contribute the greater part of the filaments of the descendens noni. It is also connected by small branches with the pneumogastric nerve and the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic at the base of the skull. SunLiNouAL The sublingual gland lies immediatelj^ beneath Glanii. the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth. Its shape is oblong, with the long axis (about an inch and a half) directed from before backwards, and it weighs about a drachm. Its relations are as follows: dhorc, it is covered with mucous membrane ; heloiv, it rests upon the upper surface of the mylo- hyoid muscle ; internally, it is in contact with the hyo-glossus, genio-hyo-glossus, stylo-glossus, the gustatory nerve and Whai'ton's duct; 2>osteriorly, with the submaxillary gland ; and in front, it rests in a depression behind the symphysis of the lower jaw. The ducts of the sublingual gland (ducts of Rivinus ') vary in number from eight to twenty. They terminate by minute openings behind the orifice of the submaxillary duct, along the ridge felt upon the floor of the mouth. One or more ducts terminate in the submax- illary duct: one of these takes the name of the duct of BartTwlin. The duct of the submaxillary gland may now be traced across the hyo-glossus, and under the gustatory nerve to the floor of the mouth. LiNGu-uj OB This nerve is a branch of the inferior maxillary Gustatory Nekve. or third division of the fifth pair of cranial nerves. Emerging beneath the external pterygoid muscle, in company with, but in front of, the inferior dental nerve, it rests upon the internal pterygoid muscle. It descends between this latter muscle ' Aug. Quirin. Rivinus, De Dyspepsia, Lips., 1678.