828 COCHLEA. composed of cancellous bone, and is traversed by numerous canals wbicli transmit small vessels and nerves to tte lamina spiralis. One of these canals, larger than the others, runs up the centre of the modiolus nearly to the apex, and transmits a small artery, the arteria centralis modioli. On making a vertical section through the cochlea, we observe that the spiral canal is divided into three tubes, termed scalce; the lower and largest is the scala ti/mjoani (fig. 205, S t) ; the upper is the scala vestibidi (fig. 205, sv), which is subdivided by an oblique membrane to form an outer or third tube—the scala media or canalis cocMece (fig. 205, DC). The lamina spiralis (fig. 204, 3) is the projecting partition which divides the spiral canal into two tubes or scalfe : is composed on the inner half, of bone—lamina spiralis ossea—and on the outer half of membrane—memhrana hasilaris. The lamina spiralis ossea ends at the cupola in a hook-like process—the hamulus. Winding round the modiolus, close to the attachment of the lamina spiralis ossea, is a small canal—the canalis spiralis modioli—-which is filled by the gangliform swelling of the cochlear nerve, called the ganglion spirale. Th& osseous lamina spiralis is seen, on a vertical section, to be com- posed of two plates, between which the structure is spongy, and presents a number of small canals for the passage of the small fila- ments of the cochlear division of the auditory nerve, in their course to the membranous part of the lamina. On examining the membranous continuation of the lamina spiralis, it is seen, not far from its attachment to the osseous zone, to be thickened into an elongated crest—the limhiis laminoi spiralis (fig. 205, I Is)—which overhangs a groove, called the sidcus spiralis (fig. 205, ss) ; the upper horn of the groove is called the laUim, vestihulare; the lower, the labium tympanicum. From the labium tympanicum, the basilar membrane is continued outwards to be attached to the outer wall of the canal, and thus completes the septum. At the point of attachment of the basilar membrane with the outer wall of the cochlea may be seen a triangular projection, which, formerly described as a muscle (cochlearis muscle), is now recognised to be a collection of connective-tissue ceEs, and called the ligamentum spirale (fig. 205, Isp). The structure of the lunhus