RECTI MUSCLES. Gl tlirougli the splienoidal fissui-e, and enters the orbit between the two heads of the external rectus. Here it lies below the lower division of the third and above the ophthalmic vein. The nerve terminates in fine filaments, which are distributed to the ocular surface of the external rectus. In the cavernous sinus it is joined by filaments from the carotid plexus, and in the orbit by a branch from Meckel's ganglion and from the ophthalmic nerve. Respecting the motor nerves in the orbit, observe that they all enter the ocular surface of the muscles, with the exception of the fourth, which enters the orbital surface of the superior oblique. The internal and inferior recti arise from a fibrous band—the Ur/ament ofZinn—attached to the inner and lower borders of the optic foramen. The external rectus arises by two heads, the lower from the ligament of Zinn and the lower border of the sphenoidal fissure, the upper from the margin of the foramen opticum ; between these heads pass in the folloAving order, from above dowuAvards—the upper division of the third, the nasal, the lower division of the third, the sixth nerves, and the ophthalmic vein. The four recti diverge from each other, one above, one below, and one on each side of the optic nerve. Their broad thin tendons are inserted into the sclerotic coat of the eye, about a quarter of an inch from the margin of the cornea (fig. 23). The recti muscles enable us to direct *the eye towards different points; hence the names given to them by Albinus—attollens, depressor, adductor, and abductor oculi. It is obvious that by the single action of one, or the combined action of two, the eye can be turned towards any direction. The rectus superior is supplied by the upper division of the third nerve; the rectus internus, the rectus inferior and obliquus inferior, by the lower division. The rectus externus is supplied by the sixth. Follow the recti to the eye, in order to see the tendons by whicli they are inserted. Notice also the anterior ciliary arteries, which run to the eye along the tendons. The congestion of these little vessels occasions the red zone round the cornea in iritis. It has