40 FACIAL AKTERY, b. The inferior coronary artery comes off near the angle of the mouth, either directly from the facial, or in common with the superior coronary. It runs tortuously along the lower lip, beneath the depressor anguli oris ; it then pierces the orbicularis, running between this muscle and the mucous membrane of the lip. It inosculates largely with its fellow, the inferior labial and the mental arteries. c. The siqjerior coronary, larger than the preceding, is given off beneath the zygomatici. It proceeds along the upper lip close to the mucous membrane, and inosculates with its fellow ; thus is formed round the mouth a complete arterial circle, which can be felt pulsa- ting on the inner side of the lip, near the free border. From this circle numerous branches pass off to the papillaj of the lips, and the labial glands. The superior coronary gives off a branch, the artery of the septum, which ascends along the septum to the apex of the nose; also a small one to the ala nasi. d. The lateral artery of the nose, a branch of considerable size, arises opposite the ala nasi, ramifies upon the external surface of the nose, and inosculates with the nasal branch of the ophthalmic artery, the infra- orbital, and the artery of the septum. e. The angular artery, which may be regarded as the termination of the facial, inosculates on the inner side of the tendo palpebrarum with the nasal branch of the ophthalmic artery. The facial artery supplies numerous branches to the muscles of the face, and inosculates with the transversalis faciei, infra-orbital, the mental, the sublingual branch of the lingual, the nasal branches of the internal maxillary and the ophthalmic, the ascending pharyngeal and descending palatine arteries. The facial artery and its branches are surrounded by a minute plexus of nerves (nervi molles), invisible to the naked eye. They are derived from the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, and exert a powerful influence over the contraction and dilatation of the capillary vessels, and thus occasion those sudden changes in the countenance indicative of certain mental emotions, e.g.* blushing or sudden paleness.^ The facial vein does not run with the artery, but takes a ' MM. Bernard and Brown-S6quard have proved by experiment, that if the branches of the sympathetic, which accompany the facial artery, be divided, the capillary vessels of the face, being deprived of their contractile power, become immediately distended with blood, and the temperature of the face is raised.