HYO-GLOSSUS. 101 from the middle line and the os hyoides, and turn it over the body of the jaw, taking care not to injxire the muscles and structures beneath. The lower jaw must now be sawn through, a little to the dissector's side of the symphysis, and the bone drawn upwards by hooks. The tongue should then be drawn out of the mouth, and fastened by hooks. The os hyoides should be drawn down by means of hooks, so as to put the parts on the stretch. All this done, we have to make out, by carefully cleaning away the fat and connective tissue, the following objects represented in fig. 29, p. 102— 1. Genio-hyoideus. 6. Sublingual gland. 2. Hyo-glossus. 7. Hypoglossal nerve. 3. Stylo-glossus. 8. Gustatory nerve. 4. Genio-liyo-glossus. 9. Submaxillary ganglion. 5. Submaxillary duct. 10. Lingual artery. Genio- The genio-hyoideus arises from the inferior HToiDEcs. tubercle behind the symphysis of the jaw, and l^asses downwards and backwards to be inserted into the front of the body of the os hyoides. This round muscle is situated in the mesial line, parallel to its fellow. Its nerve comes from the hypoglossal, and its blood from the lingual artery. Its action is to draw the os hyoides forwards and upwards; and if the hyoid bone be fixed, it depresses the lower jaw. ^ The hyo-glossus arises from the body, the greater and lesser' cornua of the os hyoides, and is inserted into the posterior two-thirds of the side of the tongue, its fibres blending with the stylo-glossus and palato-glossus. It is a square and flat muscle, and its fibres ascend nearly perpen- dicularly from origin to insertion. The fibres arising from the body of the hyoid bone, termed the hasio-glossus, are directed backwards and upwards and overlap the fibres which have their origin from the greater cornu and are termed the l:erato-glossus. Those that arise from the lesser cornu are termed the cJiondro- fjlossiis. The nerve to the hyo-glossus comes from the hypo- glossal, and its blood from the lingual. Its action (with that of its fellow) is to depress the tongue. Observe the objects which lie ^ipon the hyo-glossus ; namely, the hypoglossal and gustatory nerves (which at the anterior border form one or more loops of communication with one another), the chorda tympani nerve, the