116 LEFT SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. are the longus colli, the vertebral column, tHe inferior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, the oesophagus, and the thoracic duct. Behind the scalenus anticiis, and on the surface of the first rib, the relations of the left subclavian are similar to those of the right (p. 114). The left subclavian, then, differs from the right only in the first part of its course. Now, what are these differences ? 1. The left subclavian comes direct from the arch of the aorta, and is therefore longer, deeper in the chest, and more vertical than the right, which comes from the arteria innominata. 2. The left subclavian is in close relation with the oesophagus and the thoracic duct: the right is not. 3. The left subclavian is crossed by the left brachio-cephalic vein. 4. The left subclavian has the phrenic, pneumogastric, and cardiac nerves nearly parallel with it; on the right side, these nerves cross the artery at a nearly right angle. 5. The left subclavian is not embraced by the recurrent laryn- geal nerve, like the right subclavian. The thoracic duct bears an important relation to the left sub- clavian. It ascends from the chest to the left of the oesophagus and heliind the artery; then arching behind the internal jugular vein as high as the seventh cervical vertebra, it curves do'wnwards and forwards in front of the scalenus anticus to terminate in the subclavian vein at its junction with the jugular. The duct is so thin and transparent that it easily escapes observation; it is most readily found by raising the subclavian vein near its junction with the jugular, and searching with the handle of the scalpel on the inner side of the scalenus anticus, in front of the vertebral vein. Before tracing the branches of the subclavian artery, consider some points relating to the operation of tying it. To tie the artery in the first part of its course, namely, on the inner edge of the scalenus anticus, is an operation of great difficulty and danger, even with the parts in a normal position. The great depth at which the artery is placed, the size and close proximity of its numerous branches, the large veins bywhich it is covered, its connection with the pneumogastric, recurrent laryngeal, phrenic,