232 THE SOFT PALATE. above the velum palati, being intended to transmit air only, is very delicate in its texture, and lined by columnar ciliated epithelium like the rest of the air-passages. But opposite the fauces, the mucous membrane resembles that of the mouth, and is provided with squamous epithelium. At the back of the larynx the mem- brane is corrugated into folds, to allow the expansion of the pharynx during the passage of the food. The membrane is lubricated by a secretion from the nume- rous mucous glands which are situated in the submucous tissue throughout the whole extent of the pharynx, particularly in the neighbourhood of the Eustachian tubes.^ PosTEEioB These are two oval openings, each of which is Openings op the about an inch in the long, and half an inch in the Nasal FossiE. short diameter. They are bounded above by the body of the sphenoid bone, externally by its pterygoid plate, below by the horizontal portion of the palate bone ; they are separated; from each other by the vomer. On removing the mucous membrane from the posterior part of the roof of the nose and the top of the pharynx, you will find beneath it much fibrous tissue. Hence polypi growing from these parts are, generally, of a fibrous nature. Isthmus This name is given to the opening by which Paucium. the mouth communicates with the pharynx. It is bounded, above by the soft palate and uvula, below by the root of the tongue, and on either side by the arches of the jDalate, enclosing the tonsils between them. Soft Paiatb ok This moveable prolongation of the roof of the Velum Pendulum mouth is attached to the border of the hard PAiATi. palate, and laterally to the side of the pharynx. Posteriorly it has a free edge, with a pendulous conical projection in the centre, called the uvula. It constitutes an imperfect parti- tion between the mouth and the posterior nares. Its upper or nasal surface is convex and continuous with the floor of the nose ; its lower surface is concave, in adaptation to the back of the tongue, and is marked in the middle by a ridge or raphe, indicat- ing its original formation by two latera^J halves. The soft palate, ' This aggregation of mucous glands is called the pharyngeal tonsil.