SHEATHS FOR THE EXTENSOR TENDONS. 389 it, and divides tliem by septa, to which their fibres are also attached. PosTEEioR This ligament should be considered as a part of AxNCLtB LiGA- the fascia of the forearm, specially strengthened by oblique aponeurotic fibres on the back of the wrist, to confine' the extensor tendons. These fibres are attached to the outer margin of the radius, and thence pass obliquely in- wards to the inner side of the wrist, where they are connected with the pisiform and cuneiform bones. They pass below the styloid process of the ulna, to which they are in no way attached, otherwise the rotation of the radius would be impeded. Sepuiate From the deep surface of the posterior annular Sheaths fob ligament, processes are attached to the ridges on Extensor the back of the radius, so as to form six distinct fibro-osseous sheaths for the passage of the ex- tensor tendons. Commencing from the radius, the first sheath contains the tendons of the extensor ossis metacarpi and the extensor primi internodii pollicis ; the second, the tendons of the extensor carpi radialis longior and brevior ; the third, the tendon of the extensor secundi internodii pollicis ; the fourth, the tendons of the extensor indicis and the extensor communis digitorum ; the fifth, the tendon of the extensor minimi digiti ; and the sixth, the tendon of the extensor carpi ulnaris. All the sheaths are lined by synovial membranes, which extend nearly to the insertions of their tendons. Occasionally, but not often, one or more of them com- municate with the wrist-joint. The fascia of the metacarpus consists of a thin fibrous layer, continued from the posterior annular ligament. It separates the extensor tendons from the subcutaneous veins and nerves, and is attached to the radial side of the second metacarpal bone, and the ulnar side of the fifth. ^ The fascia must be removed from the muscles, Dissection. ... , r.-, i . i Without mjurmg the muscular fibres which arise from its under surface. Preserve the posterior annular ligament. The following superficial muscles are now exposed, and should be examined in the order in which they are placed, proceeding from the radial to the ulnar side:—1. The supinator radii longus