THE BLADDER, PEOSTATE, URETHRA, AND PENIS. 547 vary in number from four to five. The nerves of opposite sides unite in front of the coccyx, where they form the ganglion impar. The arrangement of the sympathetic nerves in the pelvis is similar to that in the abdomen, each ganglion receiving a branch from the ganglion above and another from the ganglion below. The external branches communicate with the sacral nerves, one probably going to, and the other coming from, the spinal nerves; the internal branches pass partly to join the pelvic plexus, and partly to the plexus around the arteria sacra media. The pelvic plexuses are two in number, and are situated one on each side of the rectum, being derived from the hypogastric plexus, which passes downwards between the common iliac arteries into the pelvis, reinforced by filaments from the second, third, and fourth sacral nerves and ganglia. The visceral branches are exceedingly delicate, and cannot be traced unless the parts have been previously hardened in spirit. They accompany the arteries supplying the respective organs, and are—the inferior hcemorrlioidal plexus to the rectum; the vesical plexus to the sides and base of the bladder, and secondary plexuses to the vas deferens and vesicula seminalis ; the prostatic pilexus to the prostate, the vesicula seminalis, and the cavernous structure of the penis; and, in the female, the vaginal plexus to the vagina and its erectile tissue, and the uterine plexus to the neck and lower part of the body of the uterus, running between the layers of the broad ligament. It also distributes numerous filaments to the fundus of the uterus and the Fallopian tubes. STKUCTUEE OF THE BLADDER, PEOSTATE, URETHRA, AND PENIS. It is assumed that the parts have been collectively taken out of the pelvis, and that the partial peritoneal covering of the bladder has been removed. The bladder, in a fairly dilated condition, measures about five inches in length and three in breadth, and when moderately full will contain about a pint of urine. N N 2