THE NASAL FOSSiE. 273 Tlie nose receives its blood-supply from the lateralis nasi, the artery of the septum, the facial, the nasal branch of the ophthalmic, and the infra-orbital arteries. The veins are returned to the facial and ophthalmic veins. The nerves are derived from the nasal branch of the ophthalmic, the infra-orbital, and infra-trochlear nerves. Its muscles are supplied by branches from the facial nerve. The muscles moving the nasal cartilages have been described with the dissection of the face (p. 34). IsTEKioR OF A vertical section should be made through the THE Nose. right nasal cavity, a little on the same side of the middle line,^ to expose the partly bony and partly cartilaginous partition of the nasal cavities (septum narium). Each nasal fossa is narrower above than below. The greatest perpendicular depth of each fossa is about the centre; from this point the depth gradu- ally lessens towards the anterior and the posterior openings of the nose. Laterally, each fossa is very narrow, in consequence of the projection of the spongy bones towards the septum : this narrow- ness in the transverse direction explains the rapidity with which swelling of the lining membrane from a simple cold obstructs the passage of air. BouOTAKEEs OF Tho uasal fossEe are bounded by the following Nasal Fossffi. bones :—superiorly, by the nasal, the nasal spine of the frontal, the cribriform plate of the ethmoid, the body of the sphenoid, and the sphenoidal turbinated bones; inferiorly, by the horizontal plates of the superior maxillary and palate bones; inter- nally, is the smooth and flat septum formed by the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid, the ridge formed by the two nasal bones, the vomer, the septal cartilage, also by the nasal spine of the frontal, the rostrum of the sphenoid, and the crest of the superior maxillary and palate bones; externally, by the nasal process and the inner surface of the superior maxillary, the lachrymal, the ethmoid, the palate, the inferior turbinated bones, and the internal pterygoid plate of the sphenoid. MEAxnsEs OF The outer wall of each nasal cavity is divided by THE Nose. the turbinated bones into three comnartments— ' This has already been done in order to dissect the spheno-palatine ganglion. T