MUSCLES OF THE FOREARM. 342 taking care of tlie cutaneous branches of the median and ulnar nerves close to the wrist. TniANous AT At the bend of the elbow is a triangular space, THE Elbow. with its base towards the humerus ; on the inner side this space is bounded by the pronator teres ; on the outer, by the supinator radii longus. In it are the following objects which must be carefully dissected:—1. In the centre is the brachial artery (with its companion veins) dividing into the radial as its outer, and into the ulnar as its inner branch; 2, on the outer side of the ai'tery is the tendon of the biceps; 3, on the inner side is the median nerve ; 4, the musculo-spiral nerve on the outer side is partly concealed by the supinator longus; 5, the radial recurrent artery ; G, the anterior ulnar recurrent; 7, the common interos- seous branch of the ulnar artery ; 8, the vena mediana profunda. Muscles of The muscles of the forearm are arranged in two THE FoKEAnsr. groups : one, consisting of supinators and exten- sors, is attached to the outer condyloid ridge and condyle; the other, consisting of pronator and flexors, is attached to the inner condyle. The inner group should be examined first. They arise by a common tendon, and are arranged in the following order: pronator teres; flexor carpi radialis ; palmaris longus ; flexor sub- limis digitorum, and flexor carpi ulnaris. Pronatou This muscle forms the inner boundary of the Eadh Teres. triangular space at the elbow. It arises by two heads ; one, from the anterior surface of the internal condyle, from the common tendon, from the fascia of the forearm, and from the septum between it and tlie flexor carpi radialis; the other, by a small tendinous origin from the inner border of the coronoid pro- cess of the ulna. From these two origins, between which the median nerve passes, the muscle proceeds obliquely downwards and outwards across the forearm, and is inserted by a flat tendon into a rough surface on the outer and back part of the middle tliird of the radius. In amputating the forearm, it is very desir- able to save the insertion of this muscle, that the stump may have a pronator. Its nerve comes from the median. Flexok Caepi This muscle, situated on the ulnar side of the Eadialis. preceding muscle, arises by the common tendon