253- THE TONGUE. DISSECTION OF THE TONGUE. The tongue is a complex muscular organ, subservient to taste, speech, suction, mastication, and deglutition. It is situated in the space formed by the lower dental arch; its upper surface is convex and free, as is also its anterior part or tip, which lies behind the lower incisor teeth ; its posterior and inferior part is connected to the OS hyoides by the hyo-glossi, to the styloid process of the tem- poral bone by the stylo-glossi, and to the symphysis of the lower jaw by the genio-hyo-glossi muscles. The upper surface or dorsum is convex, and slopes on all sides from the centre; it is divided into two symmetrical halves by a median groove—rapM—running along the middle, and terminates posteriorly in a depression—the foramen ccecum—into which open several mucous glands. The posterior third of the dorsum is com- paratively smooth : the anterior two-thirds is rough, and covered with small eminences called pajnllce. Mucous Mem- The surface of the tongue is covered with mu- BRAXE. cous membrane, which is composed of structures similar to those of the skin generally—that is to say, it consists of a cutis vera with numerous elevations called papilla3, and of a thick layer of squamous epithelium. The cutis is much thinner than that of the skin of the body, and affords insertion to some muscular fibres of the tongue. The mucous membrane on the under aspect of the tongue is smooth and comparatively thin, and, in the middle line in front, forms a fold—the frcenum linguce—which connects it to the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth. On each side of the frtenum are the elevated orifices of the submaxillary ducts; and further back, in the furrow between the tongue and gums, are the openings of the sublingual ducts. Laterally, the mucous membrane is re- flected from the under part of the tongue to the lower jaw, and forms the floor of the mouth. From the posterior part of the tongue the mucous membrane passes to the soft palate on each side, forming the folds termed the