DEEP FASCIA OF THE FOREARM. 341 the skin over the muscles of the ball of the thumb; it commu- nicates with the palmar branch of the median and with the radial nerve. In front of the upper part of the forearm are some filaments of the external cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral nerve ; on the outer and back part of the forearm, near the elbow, the lower external cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral runs down as far as the "wrist to supply the skin. At the lower third of the radial side of the forearm, the radial nerve becomes superficial, and turns over the radius to supply the back of the hand and fingers. On the ulnar side the anterior division of the internal cuta- neous nerve descends as far as the wrist; its posterior branch passing to the back of the forearm to supply it as far as the middle. Near the styloid process of the ulna, the dorsal branch of the ulnar nerve perforates the fascia to reach the back of the hand. Deep Fascia of The muscles of the forearm are enveloped by a THE FoBEAKM. deuse shining aponeurosis, continuous with that of the arm. Its thickness increases towards the wrist, that the tendons, in this situation, may be kept in their position. It is composed of fibres which cross each other obliquely, and is attached, above, to the condyles of the humerus and olecranon; internally, to the ridge on the posterior part of the ulna. At the back of the wrist, it forms the posterior annular ligament, and in front, it is continuous with the anterior annular ligament. Above, the fascia is strengthened by fibres from the tendons of the biceps and brachialis anticus. The aponeurotic expansion from the inner edge of the tendon of the biceps is exceedingly strong. It braces the muscles on the inner side of the forearm, and interlaces at right angles with the fibres of the fascia attached to the internal condyle. The under surface of the fascia gives origin to the mus- cular fibres in the upper part of the forearm, and furnishes septa which separate the muscles, and form surfaces for their origin. The fascia is perforated at various parts for the passage of the cutaneous vessels and nerves of the forearm. ^ Remove the fascia from the muscles by incisions Dissection. ^. , . n , • , i i • correspondmg to those for renectmg the skin;