BASE OF THE liKAIN. 743 In front we notice the triangular frontal lobes, separated from each other hj the longitudinal fissure, and bounded behind by the fissure of Sj^vius. In the middle line, dividing the frontal lobes, is the longi- tudinal fissure. By gently separating these lobes, we expose the corpus callosum, or the great transverse commissure which con- nects the two hemispheres of the cerebrum. Continued backwards and outwards on each side from the corpus callosum to the fissure of Syhdus is a.white band, the peduncle of the corpus callosum. Extending from the corpus callosum to the optic commissure is a thin grey layer, the lamina cinerea. Between the frontal and temporo-splifenoidal lobes is the fissure of Sylvius, which lodges the middle cerebral artery. The optic commissure, formed by the union of the two optic tracts, is seen in the middle line behind the lamina cinerea. At the root of the fissure of Sylvius is the locus perforatus anticus.^ Immediately behind the optic commissure is a slight prominence of grey matter, the tuber cinereum ; from this descends a conical tube of reddish colour, the infundibulum, to the apex of which is attached the pituitary body. Behind the tuber cinereum are two round white bodies, the corpora albicantia. Posterior to these is the locus perforatus posticus, which is bounded behind by the pons, and laterally by the two diverging crura cere- bri, two round cords of white substance, which emerge from the anterior border of the pons. Winding round the outer side of each cms is a soft white band, the optic tract. Examine now in detail the various objects above enumerated, most of which are shown in fig. 170. The lonr/itudinal fissure is visible in front, where it separates the two frontal lobes, and, by lifting up the cerebellum, it can be seen behind dividing the temporo-sphenoidal lobes. It can be more satisfactorily examined later on. The lamina cinerea is a thin layer of grey substance, which runs backwards from the termination of the corpus callosum, and passes above the optic commissure to be connected with the tuber cinereum. Laterally it is continuous with the grey matter ' Called perforatus from its being perforated by a number of blood-vessels for the supply of the coi-pus striatum.