8 DUR4. MATE!?. because its vessels run above the diseased tissue, and tlierefore its supply of blood is not cut ofF. Lymphatics of The lymphatics of the scalp run for the most THE SoAip. part backwards towards the occiput to join the occipital and posterior auricular glands; a few run towards the root of the zygoma, where they enter the parotid lymphatic glands. It is in these situations, therefore, that one finds glandular enlarge- ments when the scalp is diseased. To examine the brain and its membranes, the skull-cap must be removed about half an inch above the supra-orbital ridges in front, and on a level with the occipital protuberance behind. The student should remember that the bone in the temporal region is very thin, and that here especial care is needed that the brain be not injured by the saw. It is better to saw only through the outer table of the skull, and to break through the inner with a chisel. In this way the dura mater and the brain are less likely to be injured. On removing the skuU- cap, which is more or less intimately attached to the subjacent membrane, we expose a tough fibrous layer, the dura mater, which forms the most external of the membranes of the brain. The meningeal arteries ramify between the skull and the dura mater. We cannot, however, with the brain in situ, trace their course, at present, throughout; so their consideration must be deferred until the brain has been removed. ^ This membrane is so called because it was thought to give rise to all the other fibrous mem- Dranes in the body. It is a dense white fibrous membrane, rough on its outer aspect, where it is more or less adherent to the inner surface uf the skull, forming its internal periosteum. On its inner surface it is smooth and shining, being lined by a layer of endo- thelial cells, which anatomists now describe as constituting a part of the dura mater. In consequence, the term ' subdural space' is now substituted for the old one—' the cavity of the arachnoid.' The dura mater differs in its adhesion to the subjacent bones: its ad- hesion is firmest at the sutures, the petrous portion of the temporal bone, the basilar process, the body of the sphenoid, the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, the depressions for the Pacchionian