573 STRUCTURE OF THE OVARIES. above downwards, and in fenaales wlio liave not often menstruated, their surface is smooth and even; in after-life, they become puckered and scarred by the repeated escape of the ova. The position of the ovaries is described by Professor His as being nearly vertical, and he states that the Fallopian tube curves round the outer to the lower border of the ovary, so that the fimbriated extremity lies beneath the ovary, with its fimbria directed upwards ; thus the ova on their escape from the ovary fall into the Fallopian tube.* The ovary is about an inch and a half long, three-quarters of an inch wide, and about half an inch thick; its weight being from one to two drachms. It consists of a dense soft stroma, imbedded in which are numerous small vesicles {(h-aafian vesicles), muscular tissue, blood-vessels and nerves, the organ being invested by a serous covering. The serous layer covers the ovaiy, but does not present the ordinary features of a peritoneal investment, for the covering is dull and not shining, and the epithelium consists of a single layer of columnar cells which are the remains of the germ epithelium, from which the ova and the other cells in the Graafian vesicles have been originally developed.'-^ The stroma composes the substance of the ovary, and consists of some connective tissue associated with a large amount of spindle- shaped cells, resembling in their appearance unstriped muscle-cells. It contains also elastic tissue, and is abundantly supplied with blood-vessels, which are larger at the hilum of the ovary, diminish- ing in size towards its surface. The outer part of the stroma is much condensed, so as to give a white appearance to the organ; this has been described as a proper fibrous coat, the tunica alhuginea ovarii, but which does not actually exist as a separate layer. If a section be made through the ovary, you will find that im- bedded in the stroma are a large number of small transparent vesicles, which are more abundant at the circumference of the ovary, while in the central part there are comparatively few, it being com- posed almost entirely of the stroma. • His, 'Lage der EierstScke,' ArcMv f. Anat., 1881. 2 Waldeyer, Eierstock u. Ei, Leipzig, 1870; and in Strieker's Handbuch, 1871.