.firSirMANUAL of . PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY BY <C. HAND FIELD JONES, ALB. Cantab., F.RS., F.RC.P. PHYSICIAN TO AND LECTURER ON CLINICAL MEDICINE AT ST. MARY’S HOSPITAL AND EDWARD IL. SIEVE KING, M.D., F.RC.P. * PHYSICIAN TO ST. MARY’S AND THE LOCK HOSPITALS, PHYSICIAN EXTRAORDINARY TO THE •■w QUEEN, PHYSICIAN IN ORDINARY TO THE PRINCE OF WALES SECOND EDITION REVISED, ENLARGED, AND EDITED BY ■LJOSEPH FRANK PAYNE, ALB. Oxon., F.RC.P. FELLOW OF MAGDALEN CObLEGE, OXFORD, ASSISTANT PHYSICIAN TO AND LATE DEMONSTRATOR OF MORBID ANATOMY AT ST. THOMAS’S HOSPITAL l LONDON *L & A. CHURCHILL, NEW BURLINGTON STREET 1875PREFATORY NOTICE TO THE FIRST EDITION. The Authors of the present work have desired to lay before their professional brethren an outline of what is known in the domain of Pathological Anatomy. The absence of any original work in the English language, which embraces the whole sub- ject, must be their apology for having made the attempt. They have sought to place before the reader a summary of ascertained facts, together with the opinions of the most eminent patholo- gists of this and other countries. They have regarded it as their duty to select, as far as possible, the best fruits from the harvest gathered by other labourers in this wide and interesting field. At the same time they have sought not to speak solely on the faith of others, even the highest authorities, but to investigate, as much as possible, for themselves, the correct- ness ot the statements they adopted. They felt that, in some; instances, better illustrations might have been obtained by borrowing from other works, but they were of opinion that the present manual would bear a stamp of greater truthfulness if the drawings were taken from objects seen and examined by themselves. They have therefore preferred (with few exceptions only) to use such illustrations as their own portfolios supplied. Although small drawings, in black and white, necessarily fad to give the important elements of size and colour, almost essential to illustrations of Pathological Anatomy, the Authorsiv PREFATORY NOTICE. hope that the masterly treatment of Mr. Bagg has achieved as much as could be done by wood engraving. They have divided the subject in the manner indicated in the Table of Contents, and are each individually responsible for the chapters which they have treated. They conclude by expressing a hope that the vast extent of the subject, and of the material they had to deal with, will serve, in some measure, as an apology for the deficiencies which they are fully conscious of, and for which they ask the kind and lenient consideration of the Medical Profession. C. HANDFIELD JONES. EDWARD H. SIEVE KING. London, August, 1854. t *PREFACE TO SECOND EDITION. We have much pleasure iri stating that in preparing the Second Edition of this work Dr. Payne has been by far the chief agent; and that, although we hare supervised and carefully examined his labours, the additions and improvements neces- sary to bring it up to the mark of the present day are entirely his work. We think he has performed his part with great ability, and we trust that the volume now affords to the student a comprehensive summary of all that is important in the science of Pathological Anatomy. C. HANDHELD JONES. EDWARD H. SIEVEKING. December, 1874. In the preparation of the Second Edition the following text- books have been constantly consulted, but it has not been thought necessary as a rule to refer to special passages of these works Rokitansky, “ Lehrbuch der Pathologischen Anatomic : ” Third Edition, Vienna, 1855-61. Porster, “Handbuch der Patholo- gischen Anatomic: ” Second Edition, Leipzig. 1863-65. Comil and A *VI PREFACE. Ranvier, “Manuel d’Histologie Pathologique: ” First and second parts, Paris, 1869-73. Rindfleisch, “ Handbuch der Patholo- gischen Gewebelehre: ” First Edition, Leipzig, 1867-69. References have generally been given to the -works of other authors quoted, hut indulgence must be asked for the numerous unavoidable omissions. The new illustrations introduced have been, for the most part, drawn on the wood by Mr. Wesley, either from original pre- parations by the Editor, or from other sources, which have been duly indicated. We have to thank the Council of the Patho- logical Society of London for permission to copy some figures from plates in the Transactions of that Society, and for the loan of wood blocks. Similar acknowledgments are due to Dr. Caton, Dr. Lockhart Clarke, Dr. Cobbold, and Dr. Dickinson. For three drawings we are indebted to Mr. Henry Arnott. J. F. PAYNE.C 0 N T E N T S. (StnEral $)atljologitai guraiomii. BV C. HANUFIltLU JO.NUS. CHAPTER I. I'AflR General Observations 1 CHAPTER II. Morbid States of the Blood G CHAPTER III. Inflammation 77 CHAPTER IV. Textural Changes I2q CHAPTER Y. New Formations jg.j CHAPTER VI. Tubercle and Allied Products • . . jg.. CHAPTER VII. Pa rasites . 20(5CONTENTS. viii pathological gUntomji of tlgr |tcrfaous Snstcm. BY EDWARD H. BIEVEKIKG. CHAPTER VIII. General Observations—The Dura Mater PAGE . 225 CHAPTER IX. The Arachnoid and the Pia Mater . 232 Th CHAPTER X. e Brain—Congestion—Haemorrhage—Inflammation—Hyper- trophy—Atrophy CHAPTER XI. The Brain—Morbid Growths . CHAPTER XII. The Spinal Cord and its Membranes CHAPTER XIII. The Arachnoid and Pia Mater or the Spinal Cord . CHAPTER XIV. The Spinal Cord 29S The Nerves CHAPTER XV. 30S CHAPTER XVI. The Sympathetic System . 315I'i CONTENTS. jpatjjologual ginatomn nf tljr Organs of dCirruIatinn. The Pericardium . BY EDWARD H. 8IEVEKINO. CHAPTER XVII. PAGE 317 CHAPTER XVIII. The Heart—Inflammation—Degenerations 326 CHAPTER XIX. Hypertrophy of the Heart 334 The Endocardium CHAPTER XX. 347 The Valves CHAPTER XXI. CHAPTER XXII. Congenital Malformation of the Heart 362 CHAPTER XXIII. The Blood-\essels in General—The Arteries .... 372 Aneurism . CHAPTER XXIV. 381 CHAPTER XXV. Thrombosis and Embolism . The Veins CHAPTER XXVI. 400 The Capillaries CHAPTER XXVII. 413 CHAPTER XXVIII. The Lymphatic System . . 116CONTENTS. philological gUtatoinii of Ibc Organs of ^Respiration. BY EDWARD H. SIEVEKING. General Observations Trachea CHAPTER XXIX. The Epiglottis — The Larynx The CHAPTER XXX. The Bronchial Tubes CHAPTER XXXI. The Lungs—Emphysema—(Edema—CONGESTION- CHAPTER XXXII. The Lungs—Pneumonia—Tubercle . CHAPTER XXXIII. The Lungs—Phthisis—New Growths CHAPTER XXXIV. The Pleura . 427 . 445 . 45S . 475 . 500 . 520 pathological gnatomn of the gUimrn'.arn Canal. BY C. IIANDFIELD JOSES. CHAPTER XXXV. The Mouth and Fauces—The Teeth—The 1^aiuj.n^and (Esophagus—The Peritoneum—The Stomach • 534 tinal Canal—The Intestinal Contents . CHAPTER XXXVI. The Liver—The Biliary Passages—The Bile CHAPTER XXXVII. The Pancreas, and the other Salivary Glands-The Hi it less Glands—The Thyroid Gland . 614 649CONTENTS. XI Pathological Jraatomn of Hie Mrinara Apparatus. Bl’ C. IIAXDFIELD JONES. CHAPTER XXXVIII. ’ - PAUK The Kidneys—The Urinary Passages—The Bladder—The Urethra—The Urinary Deposits 668 CHAPTER XXXIX. The Male Generative Organs 717 Datalogical §.natomn of % female ©rgans of (generation. BY EDWARD H. SIEVKKTNO. CHAPTER XL. The External Organs of Generation—The Vagina . . . 742 CHAPTER XLI. The Uterus 750 CHAPTER XLII. The Ovaries—The Fallopian Tubes—The Mammas . . .770 CHAPTER XLI1I. Morbid Conditions following and preceding Parturition . 790 Pathological Snatomn of tjje Joints. BY C. IIANDFIKLD JONK8. CHAPTER XLIV. Diseases of the Joints . . 806CONTENTS. xii pathological gtnatomn of t^c Osseous Snstem. BY EDWARD II. SIEVEKISG. CHAPTER XLV. Inflammation of Bone —Necrosis—Caries—Rickets CHAPTER XLYI. Adventitious Growths in Bone PAGE . 827 . 851T MANUAL OF PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. PART I. GENERAL PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. CHAPTER L GENERAL OBSERVATIONS, The object of General Pathology is to examine the various morbid processes which may occur m the human body, and to obtain thereby, such an insight into their nature, that they may not be looked on as unknown entities, but that being comprehended as far as is possible themselves, the various effects they produce the par ticular instances of their action, may be understood also.’ 1 The course we propose to follow is to describe briefly (I ) The morbid alterations of the several great functions, (IIA Those of , rallv'TlV ft® vanous issues, considered gene- . rally. (IV.) The superadded formations or growths the so tumours. (V.) Parasitic beings, whether animal or Vegetable Some general obseivations must, however ho a, e' term Morbid Anatomy hardly needs explanation - lse(P Tho anatomy implies the study of, and acquaintance with TheTStft structure, so morbid anatomy implies the same nf rK ’ 6 healthy ' ture. The meaning of Pathology 17^9 dealt- f'T considenng that of its twin sister, Physfology • as iLftf *ed’ by the knowledge of the natural actionsof With v^ lmp?rts the former that of the unnatural actions of disoLed^or organs Physiology has her vital stimuli; pXoW Lr ? , or Matat. to mtahk, life. Thi, o^ioS^rSoe BGENERAL OBSERVATIONS. 2 a point which, has been excellently illustrated by Professor Simon. He remarks that many unnatui-al or diseased conditions are not really unnatural in themselves, but are the proper and necessary consequences of some cause or influence which has acted upon a healthy body. The state of skin which a severe burn produces is, certainly, very unnatural and diseased, hut the inflammatory and exudative processes which have produced it are quite natural, under the circumstances that have occurred; they are the proper reaction of a healthy organism to the unnatural stimulus of extreme heat, and are called forth in the same way as is the healthy flow of blood into a chilled part by the action of kindly warmth. So in a case of variola, the skin covered all over with unsightly pustules is in a very unnatural state ; but it is not the eruption, nor the constitutional disturbance, neither, that is really unnatural, hut the presence of a certain quantity of infec- tious matter in the blood, which, acting on a perfectly natural system, thus calls forth its expulsive efforts. If we shghtly alter this perfectly natural state, as by premising vaccination, then the introduction of the variolous poison no longer produces the same morbid effects, and we say the system is protected. Ihe tact is, the system is changed from its originally perfectly natural condi- tion, and will no longer respond to the unnatural stimulus. We find! it may he, a portion of the brain so soft as to resemble cream, quite broken up and disorganized; hut we look further and And that the artery supplying it with blood has been plugged up or tied and we then see that the locus of the disease was not really in the brain, but in the artery; it would have been abnormal had the brain, deprived of its supply of blood, retained its natural texture. Or, again, we see a person suffering from violent epileptic convulsions, hut he passes a large worm from the bowels and the attacks cease; in the. case of this individual, the convulsions were the natural expression of the unnatural irritation to which the brain was subjected. Many like instances might he men- tioned, and they certainly show that disease is, very often, not to he regarded as a special entity of a peculiar, strange kind, hut as the natural result of the endowments and qualities belonging to our bodily organs, when those organs are acted on by certain unnatural stimuli. Hence we can better understand that many diseases have a regular and normal course, made up “ ^ roeak, of a succession of necessary results, which however, is hable to he disturbed by various extrinsic causes. I or instance, a person has ague, the paroxysms occurring in regular succession ; be takes quinine, and they diminish and disappear, the course of morbid action is interfered with and broken. Or, a child has hooping- cough, and the disease is proceeding in its usual course, but in consequence of exposure to cold, ho is attacked with inflammation of the lungs, and the paroxysms characteristic ot the disease are, to a groat degree, interrupted; the hooping-cough is merge the pneumonia. Or, again, a person has tubercular deposit in his3 GENERAL OBSERVATIONS. lungs; the natural tendency of this is to soften, break down, and be expectorated, together with the involved tissue, while, as fresh deposits take place, more and more of the organ is destroyed ; but, before this can happen, inflammation is set up to such an extent, in the surrounding tissue, that life is cut short, not by the effects ■ of the tubercular destruction directly, hut by the intercurrent inflammation. The unnatural stimuli, provoking the succession of morbid s actions, are often termed the Exciting causes of a disease ; they : may be adequate, when powerful of themselves to produce their effect, or may need the assistance of other causes, generally of a i debilitating nature, which are called Predisposing. But the question now occurs, whether all diseases are of the 1 kind above mentioned, whether all can be regarded as the natural i results of certain foreign injurious influences operating on the : system. To this the answer, in the present state of pathology, imust be, I think, Certainly not. There are very many cases where 'we cannot point out any exciting cause of the existing malady, ’where it seems to have originated spontaneously, so far as we are able to judge. Of this kind are many instances of decay and dege- neration of tissues, very many of mal-assimilation, or mal-secre- tion, hereditary diseases, and some congenital mal-formations. lit may be that, as we advance in knowledge, we shall be able to unclude more and more of the latter class under the former ; that ias we obtain more acquaintance with the imponderable influences which are constantly in operation, we shall be able to refer to mem as the causes of changes which now appear spontaneous, but from this we are far at present, and must thoroughly recognize the two classes of disease which we have just described. These classes, however, are not (and natural groups never are) rigorously defined; •there are numerous instances of an intermediate kind, such as those where a slight exciting cause calls into action an inherited predisposition. "We must also notice another great division of diseases into two classes, viz., the Organic and Functional. Of the existence of the latter many of the best pathologists greatlv doubt, that is to say, whether it be possible for the mechanism of an organ to be perfectly uninjured, at the time that its function is ’wrongly performed. Speaking in the strictest sense, and remem- bering the advances which have been made in detecting morbid alterations formerly unknown, as well as the amount of progress =which we may yet look to make, it must certainly be allowed that it is quite possible that the division above mentioned is not founded in reality, and that all diseases are attended with organic change ;But, when this is conceded, it remains still perfectly clear that there are not a few diseases, and some very severe, in which no organic alteration whatever can be detected, and it seems further a pomt of considerable practical importance that the student should be fully aware of this and alive to it. What are called idiosyn- crasies aro unusual peculiarities of an individual system, in con-4 GENERAL OBSERVATIONS. sequence of which it is affected in a different manner by some influences to that which is commonly experienced. Thus some persons are attacked by asthma or bronchitis on inhaling the odour of hay; some are almost poisoned by taking the smallest dose of a mercurial. One at least has been mentioned (by Dr. Prout) who could not eat mutton in any form without being attacked by violent vomiting and diarrhoea. In such persons the qualities and endowments of one or more organs must be essen- tially different to those of the same parts in the vast majority of mankind. Yet there is not the least reason for supposing that, by any scrutiny, we could detect any structural difference, and they must, therefore, be deemed instances of aberring function. One remarkable instance it seems worth while to adduce here, which affords an excellent illustration of the connection that may obtain between disordered function and alteration of structure. The Graafian vesicle in the ovary, instinct with a wonderful capa- city of life, which only needs its appropriate stimulus to rouse it into that activity which issues in the production of another being, not unfrequently, as if affected by some strange and unnatural stimulus, proceeds to develop itself into a huge anomalous growth, utterly imperfect, and unlike what, under normal conditions, it should have produced, and yet exhibiting some traces such as are fouud in no other growth of its original destiny, by the formation of several of the natural tissues, skin, teeth, hair, nay, even brain, &c. Here it seems impossible to recognize any other cause of the organic alteration beside the perversion or aberrance of a natural function or endowment. The term Diathesis is applied to a certain condition of the general system often inherited, which renders it especially liable to some particular form of disease ; thus we speak of the scrofulous or tubercular diathesis, of the gouty aiathesis, and so on. If the diathesis or predisposition be strong, a slight exciting cause will be sufficient to induce the malady, if it be absent,& no exciting cause may produce any effect A diathesis may, therefore, be considered as a kind of special weakness. Degeneration of a part or tissue implies generally its slow and gradual conversion into some lower kind of structure less ntteu for the purpose it has to fulfil, as when cartilage is converted into a kind of fibrous tissue; or it may imply the atrophy and destruc- tion of a part, as of the cortical structiu-e of the kidney in Origin s disease. It is to be regarded in some measure as a local infirmity. It was formerly a much debated question, whether diseases had their principal seat in the fluids or solids of the body; and each ot the two opposed theories has at times been dominant. At the present day we marvel how men could have adopted exclusively one view or the other, and refused to allow to each their share in the production of morbid phenomena. There can be no question, from known physical laws, that the blood must, in very many cases, bo the first recipient of aeriform noxious matters, of all such miasmata as thoso of typhus, smallpox, &c. The instant that thoseMORBID ALTERATIONS OF FUNCTION. 0 a are drawn with the air into the lungs they pass into the blood; for it is impossible that the gases contained in the blood shall not, aaccording to the law of heterogeneous attraction, be exchanged in I part for those which are diffused in the air cells and cavities of the 1 lungs. As little doubt can there be that the blood, as it is the tfirst to receive, so it is also the first to be modified and altered (from its healthy composition by the inhaled miasm. In the great ‘•class of inflammations, the affection of the tissue and of the blood imust proceed pari passu; so intimately is the blood concerned in eevery stage of the process, that it may almost be said both blood ..and tissue are alike the seat of the disease; but the latter mani- ffestly has the initiative. Rheumatic and gouty inflammations imust, however, be excepted, in which the blood is apparently the (primary seat of morbid alteration. Scrofulous disease has been tthought to commence in the blood, and to produce in it a change, of the nature of which we are ignorant, but which issues in the . deposit of a peculiar matter in various localities. In diseases arising from excess in eating and drinking, or from unwholesome .aliment, the blood in some cases, and the alimentary canal in cothers, may be primarily affected. When we consider what the (processes of nutrition and secretion imply, how the blood is a vast 1 laboratory, in which some secretions are actually prepared, and tthe materials of others; how it conveys to each part the nutriment tthat is appropriate to it, and receives back in return principles .more or less effete; how continually it is receiving supplies of •new matter from without, and undergoing depuration by various appointed emunctories; in short, if we consider how thoroughly the different solid and fluid parts of the frame are correlated, and mutually dependent, we shall perceive most clearly that it is :far more important to be fully aware of the extreme liability, nay, : necessity, of the solids to be affected by the fluids, and the fluids by the solids, and that thus the disorder of one part may bo the exponent of the error of another, than to attempt an almost impos- ■ sible definition of the exact origin and site of a disease. MORBID ALTERATIONS OF FUNCTION. These alterations, which would fill so important a chapter in a ’ work on medicine, must occupy a much less conspicuous place in 1 * work on pathological anatomy. For if such alterations arc ; dependent on any structural changes, whether anatomical or humoral, of the organs, they will be described under another head. If, on the other hand, they cannot be traced to any organic ' but are PurelY functional derangements, they are then bv definition excluded from the scopo of this work. The question which has often been raised, whether there is such a thin- as purely functional derangement, has already been discussed °CHAPTER II. MORBID STATES OF THE BLOOD. The saying attributed to Cuvier, “Le sang est chair coulant,” expresses very fairly the relations that subsist between the nutrient circulating fluid and the solid tissues. As we have already remarked, a change in the former involves almost necessarily a change in the latter, and each of the vital actions of the latter exerts some influence on the former. It is manifest, therefore, that an acquaintance with the healthy properties and morbid alterations of the blood is absolutely essential to a correct study of the phenomena wrought by disease in the solid parts. But the blood itself is a very compound thing, not only as regards the number of different matters it contains, organic and inorganic, not only as regards the manifold additions which it receives from with- out in the way of nutriment, and those which are poured back into it as the effete residues of tissues, but also as regards its own mor- phological condition, being made up of solid and of fluid parts, of organized particles floating in an organic liquid. In diseased states of the blood these several parts, or some of their constituents, may be separately affected, and it seems therefore desirable on this account, as well as for the sake of greater precision, to examine first the individual component elements of this fluid with reference to their pathological changes, and afterwards to consider the diseases of the blood taken as a whole. Regarding the blood per se, this inquiry would rather belong to special than to general Pathology, but we include it under the latter head on account of the manifest general relations of the blood. RED AND WHITE CORPUSCLES. The circulating fluid consists, as we know, of two kinds of organized particles, or corpuscles, floating in a transparent colour- less fluid, called the Plasma, or Liquor sanguinis. The organized particles aro the red corpuscles, preponderating immensely in num- ber, and giving to the fluid its characteristic colour, and the whiteRED AND 'WHITE CORPUSCLES. 7 or colourless, -which in the healthy state occur somewhat “ few and far between,” in number only ^igthto 3-^th of the red, and impart to the general mass no distinguishable quality. Healthy blood has an alkaline reaction, which is that of the liquor sanguinis, and is, even in the thinnest layers, quite opaque. The exact proportion of the organized particles to the liquor is extremely difficult to determine with accuracy. Most analyses refer only to the dried corpuscles, but that of Hoppe, which takes account of the water contained in these particles, is by far the most trustworthy. It is an analysis, not of human blood, but of the venous blood of the horse. In 1,000 parts of blood are contained— Corpuscles .. 326-2 Liquor sanguinis .. 673-8 1000 In 1,000 parts of corpuscles— Water .. .. •‘165 Solids 435 1000 In 1,000 parts of liquor sanguinis— Water .. 908-4 Solids 91-6 1000 The solids of the liquor sanguinis consist of— Fibrin 101 Albumen .. .. 77-6 Fat 1-2 Extractives 4-0 Soluble salts 6-4 Insoluble salts 1-7 101 Bed Corpuscles.—These aro round discoid bodies, with two concave surfaces. Their consistence is soft and elastic; they are of a uniform red colour, and are specifically heavier than either the liquor or the white corpuscles. They were formerly supposed to be cells, with a distinct envelope and a nucleus ; subsequently the possession of a nucleus was denied to them, and they aro now regarded as homogeneous masses of colourless stroma, without nucleus or enclosing membrane. Many reagents, by condensing the outermost portion of the globule, produce tho appearance of a cell-wall. The colour of these discs is duo to the presence in thorn of a peculiar colouring matter, which is normally quite absent from tho liquor, and may be separated from tho discs without8 HED AND 'WHITE CORPUSCLES. destroying them, being attached either hy mere imbibition, after the manner of a dyed fabric, or else hy some easily disturbed chemical affinity. This peculiar distribution of colouring matter in the blood is a matter of great physiological and pathological importance. The optical properties of the blood are, from this cause, very different from those of a solution. Its colour is not entirely derived from trans- mitted light, like that of a solution, hut is partly due to reflection from the surfaces of the globules. A true solution, therefore, •would appear darker, though it would he perfectly transparent in thin layers, which blood is not. The same fact explains why blood does not permanently stain the vessels containing it, or diffuse into the neighbouring parts, as for instance bile pigment does; the colour- ing matter being probably never in actual contact with the walls of the vessels. When the colouring matter leaves the globules, and becomes diffused in the liquor, blood has the optical and many of the physical properties of a solution. There are several patho- logical conditions in which this occurs, hut it is worth while to enumerate some of the means hy which it can be artificially effected, such as simple dilution with water, freezing and melting again, repeated electric discharges, separation of the gases of the blood; the addition of salts of the bile-acids, of ether, of chloroform, or of alcohol in small quantities. All these agents, it should he remembered at the same time, cause the globules to swell up, and ultimately, to become spherical, while, if continued long enough, they for the most part dissolve the decolorized stroma. It is also worth notice that decomposition of the blood produces the same series of changes if sufficient water be present. In dried blood the form of the corpuscles is preserved for an indefinite time. The chemical character of the blood-colouring matter is not with- out importance in pathology. The substance attached to the cor- puscles has been called Haemoglobin (also Hcematocrystallin or Cruorin). It is a body of extremely complex but perfectly definite composition, and may be obtained in crystals. When in solution it readily undergoes decomposition into an albuminous substance called globulin, and a coloured substance called Hcematin, which was long taken for the true blood pigment. Hcematin and Hemoglobin, however, differ not only in chemical composition (though both con- tain iron) and in crystalline form, but are readily distinguished by their optical properties. Each produces peculiar “ absorption bands ” in tho solar spectrum, by which its presence may be cer- tainly recognized. Ifrematin has not been found ready formed in the blood ; but its production in a crystalline form combined with HC1, constitutes a valuable test for the presence of blood (Teich- mann’s Them in crystals). These crystals are frequently found as a pathological product in old extravasations of blood; but the crystals most commonly found in such situations are composed of a third colouring matter obtained from the blood, and known as Havmatoidin. This body contains no iron, and resembles, if it be not identical with, a body obtained from the bile, called Bilirubin.PATHOLOGICAL CONDITIONS OF THE BLOOD CORPUSCLES. 9 Hcematoidin is produced by the decomposition of hsematin, and hence (supposing that it could not have come from the bile) its presence in the body always indicates the previous effusion and decomposition of blood. White Corpuscles of the Blood.—These are larger than the red; they are, when seen out of the body, and dead, spherical masses, with a somewhat granulated surface. In their interior may be seeu granules, or sometimes indistinct nuclear bodies. On the addition of acetic acid sometimes a single nucleus is shown, sometimes two, three, or four; sometimes an oval or double nucleus, which appears to be in process of division. It is important to remember that these differences are normal, and not in themselves indicative of disease. When observed at the temperature of the body these cells show lively movements, throwing out and withdrawing portions of their substance, and undergoing various alterations of shape. In the characters which have been mentioned, as in others, they agree with lymph corpuscles, and with the corresponding elements of mucus and pus. — The chemical constitution of the white corpuscles is not of any importance for our present pur-pose. We will only call to mind the contrast which is observed between the mineral constituents of the corpuscles generally and those of the liquor sanguinis. Accord- ing to Schmidt the relative quantities of metals and acids are as follows:— Iv. Na. P05. 01. Corpuscles .. 4089 .. 9*71 .. 17-64 .. 21-00 Liquor sanguinis 5’19 .. 37‘74 .. 6'08 .. 40-68 It will be seen from this that the greater part of the potassium and the phosphoric acid are contained in the corpuscles ; most of the sodium and chlorine in the liquor sanguinis. This difference is sometimes not without pathological importance. PATHOLOGICAL CONDITIONS OF THE BLOOD CORPUSCLES. Variations in Number.—With respect to the red globules, it is certainly proved, that their amount is, cceteris paribus, proportionate to the vigour, health, and strength of the individual. In the examinations made by MM. Andral, Gavarret, and Delafond of the blood of various animals, it was constantly observed that those which possessed most strength and vigour, and were generally the finest specimens of the race, gave the highest figures in a series showing the relative amounts of globules; while those that were debilitated and poor showed a corresponding deficiency in this particular. Also, when the breed of a species was improved by crossing it with another, there was a corresponding increase in tlio quantity of red particles. In the human subject the comparison of the general vigour and activity of the sanguine temperament, both as regards body and mind, with tho sluggishness andPATHOLOGICAL CONDITIONS OF 10 dulness of the lymphatic temperament, or with the languor and debility of the anaemic patient, shows that the same rale holds good. Increase of Red Corpuscles.—Plethora is the chief pathological con- dition in which an increase of red globules has been observed. One of the cases of cerebral congestion mentioned by Andral presented an amount of 138'6 parts per 1,000, an excess of 11 above the normal figure ; after venesection the globules in this case were so far dimi- nished that the quantity only amounted to lOl'l per 1,000, consider- ably below the mean. In various febrile diseases an augmentation of the globules has also been observed; thus in the period immediately preceding the outbreak of continued fever their amount was once found as high as 157‘7; in the early period of a case of severe inflammatory fever, the fourth day of the disease, the globules had attained the extraordinary height of 185 parts per 1,000, the greatest amount ever observed; in several cases of typhoid fever (fever with intestinal complication) the globules had risen to 142 or even 149, and even on the second bleeding were found still con- siderably above the mean; in scarlatina and in measles an increase in the amount of globules was also found, the maximum (which existed in the latter) being as much as 146. No increase was observed in cases of variola or of modified smallpox. A much increased proportion of red globules has been observed in cholera and other diseases in which a rapid drain of liquid from the blood occurs. The rationale of this is plain.* Some writers, especially Yogel, have drawn a distinction between relative and absolute variations in the number of red globules. Relative variations are such as have already been spoken of; absolute variations are alterations in the total number of globules present in the body. The latter are evidently the more import- ant, since the functional activity of the blood must depend on the absolute amount, and not on the proportion of red globules; but absolute determinations are only possible when we know the absolute amount of blood in the body—a matter of which we shall speak hereafter. The condition of the general system co-existing with, and probably occasioned by, the increase in the amount of red globules is exaltation of the animal heat, heightened sen- sibility, and muscular irritability: the spirits are high, and the mental energy great, the pulse beats full and firm, the power of resistance to debilitating and morbid influences is considerable, the tendency in disease is to active inflammation and high febrile • It should be observed that (he methods of analysis by which these numbers have been obtained are far from trustworthy. They profess to give only the weight of dried corpuscles, and the exact relation of this to the real weight of the corpuscles is not known. A more exact though exceedingly laborious method, is that of counting, introduced by Weleker. According to this observer the blood of men contains in one cubic millimetre 5,000,000 red globules, that of women. 4,500,000, on the average. If the number exceed 5,500,000 for the male nr 5,000,000 for the female ; or again, fall below 4,500,000 for the male or 4,000,000 for the female, the conditiou must be regarded aa morbid.THE BLOOD CORPUSCLES. 11 excitement, and bleeding, if employed, is well borne. The effect of iron in promoting an increase of the red globules is well known, but it will often fail where tbe attendant circumstances are un- favourable ; and we have seen a much more rapid effect produced by the change from a scanty to an ample diet. Free exposure to fresh air and light seems also powerfully to promote the form- ation of red blood, as much as the deprivation of them tends to destroy it. Deficiency of Red Corpuscles.—The opposite condition to plethora forwhich the term spancemia((rnavos, scarce) is more appropriate than anaemia, is essentially characterized by a deficiency in red globules. This condition is met with in the disease known as chlorosis, when there is a chronic deficiency, both of the red and the white globules, and of the solid constituents of the blood generally so that the proportion of water is much above the normal. Deficiency of red globules perhaps never occurs without deficiency in some other constituents of the blood also. Extreme cases of spancemia are by no means unfrequent, and, which is not sufficiently known, are by no means unattended with serious danger. Sudden death has in several instances taken place apparently from the cessation of the heart’s action, the debilitated organ being insufficiently stimulated by the impoverished blood. In an extreme case of chlorosis Andral found the globules at so low an amount as 38-7 per 1,000, the water at the same time being increased from 790 to 868'7. Similar alterations were found in the blood of other indi- viduals who had become anaemic from other causes, from lead poisoning, the cancerous or tuberculous cachexia, or from repeated losses of blood. In Bright’s disease there is evidently a marked failure in the power of producing red globules, and the same is the case in the peculiar affection termed leucocythcemia, which either depends on, or is coincident with, great hypertrophy of the spleen. We are inclined to think that in spanaamic states the red globules are not only deficient in number but defective in quality; they appear under the microscope manifestly paler than those of per- sons who have a healthy colour, their hsematoglobin being in all probability not properly formed. The well-known symptoms of this condition are general debility, diminished temperature, palpitation, often excessive, of the heart, and various nervous affections. Dissolution of Blood Corpuscles.—In some of the most malig- nant fevers the blood corpuscles appear to be actually destroyed. Dr. Williams has observed this in a case of albuminuria proving fatal by purulent infection, and in a case of malignant scarla- tina ; wo have examined tho blood a few times in persons dying of such diseases, but have not found any noticeable alteration in the globules. Unless in very extreme casos, such as that observed by Dr. Williams, it would be very difficult to get clear evidonce of tho dissolution of blood corpuscles, although it is probablo that this may occasionally occur from the operation of12 PATHOLOGICAL CONDITIONS OF some one of the numerous agents before mentioned. It should be remembered, however, that the first effect of all these agents is to separate the red colouring matter from the globules, and dissolve it in the liquor sanguinis, and this change has often been observed. When this is the case the walls of the vessels, and the tissues in immediate contact with them, very commonly become saturated with a red colour, which must be carefully distinguished from that which accompanies inflammation. The effect of diluting the liquor sanguinis upon the blood globules is exceedingly well shown by an experiment performed by Mr. Lane. An animal was bled, and the serum, after the formation of the clot, was as usual colourless, or of a light yellow ; a certain quantity of matter was then injected into the veins, and soon after blood was again drawn. The serum of this, however, was of a decided red, contrasting strongly with that of the preceding quantity. It was, therefore, quite clear that the hmmoglobin had been removed from the globules, and dissolved in the serum. We have observed the same thing with the micro- scope in the blood of frogs, and in that of foetal vertebrata. When the globules have not been exposed to the action of water, or only in a slight degree, the whole mass is permeated with red fluid; but when water has been freely added, the red fluid entirely disappears. It seems very probable, as Dr. WTlliams suggests, that the in- stances of sudden death occurring immediately after copious draughts of cold water in an exhausted state of the system, have been in some measure owing to such alterations of the blood globules as we have just noticed. The same changes may also be concerned in the phenomena consequent on excessive losses of blood, especially in occasioning the local congestions which are apt to take place in them, and in the anaemic generally. Roki- tansky mentions that he has observed in a septic state of the blood an altered condition of the globules, which are swollen up from their natural disc-like shape, and have parted with much of their colouring-matter to the surrounding fluid. The same thing was observed by Kiihne in the blood of dogs, in whom artificial icterus had been produced by the injection of salts of the bile acids into their veins; but there is no similar observa- tion on record in cases of icterus in the human subject. Separation of the colouring matter also occurs, locally, in almost all cases of stagnation of blood, as from obstruction of vessels; it also accom- panies for the most part actual extravasation. In the disease known as purpura the colouring matter alone appears sometimes to transude, though more generally there is extravasation of the blood globules also; and in many purpuric or petechial patches met with on the surface of internal organs after death colouring matter alone, without any organic elements, is met with. When this condition of the blood is observed after death it is important to bear in mind that it may be a sign merely of very rapid decom- position of the blood, and have tho same significance as the lividTHE BLOOD CORPUSCLES. 13 patches seen on the skin along the course of veins or elsewhere. This too rapid decomposition may be regarded as a morbid pheno- menon, but it does not necessarily show that the same condition existed during life. The disease 'in which this 1 ‘ dissolved con- dition of the blood ” has been most constantly observed is diphtheria, but it occurs also in some cases of pyaemia, of typhus, and yellow fevers, and doubtless of other febrile complaints. The red globules of human blood exhibit a tendency to cohere together in such a manner as to form tolerably regular piles, or rouleaux; in the healthy condition the cohesion soon ceases, and is not nearly so strongly manifested as in the inflammatory state. Of this, indeed, it is quite characteristic that the globules form rows of some length, made up of numerous discs cohering together by their surfaces, and having their edges disposed so as to form a tolerably straight line. The cause of this tendency is not certainly ascertained, but Dr. Norris, of Birmingham, has shown that the cause must be physical rather than physiological, since discs of various materials, floating in a liquid, exhibit the same tend- ency. It is, however, essential that the discs should previously be wetted with a liquid antagonistic to that in which they are submerged. Causes of Variation.—While so much uncertainty prevails respecting the origin of the red corpuscles, it is not possible to point to any foregoing condition as specially tending to promote their growth and increase, or to occasion their atrophy. All that can be said is, that a proper constitution of the liquor sanguinis is certainly essential, as being the material out of which these floating cells are nourished and built up. If this be impoverished, or otherwise deteriorated, the corpuscles will not be properly developed; and again, by improving the quality of their plasma, their healthy condition will be restored. Of this we have a good example in those cases of chlorosis where the administration of iron is sufficient to reproduce the ruddy hue of the complexion. In other cases, a defective state of nervous influence, proceeding from some mental affection, occasions the atrophy of the red particles ; but we cannot tell whether this cause acts upon them primarily, or, as is more probable, through the medium of other organs and functions. There can be no doubt that the blood globules have an appointed period of existence, after which they naturally decay. This decay probably takes place in the general course of the circulation, at least in part. Evidence, however, has recently been adduced to show that the spleen is especially the seat of a destructive process, affecting the globules ; and that the yellow pigment matter, so frequently found in this organ, is, in fact, the remains of their altered blood-pigment. In the liver also the blood globules seem to yield up their colouring matter, to furnish the yellow pigment of the bile ; and the colouring matter of the urino is no doubt derived from the same source. The circumstance that so much pigmentary matter should by these14 PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES OF THE LIQUOR SANGUINIS. two channels be ejected ont of the system shows, on the supposition that it is derived from that of the red globules, how rapidly the latter must undergo decay; and, by consequence, how fast their reproduction must take place. It is worth remarking that one drug, the most commonly used, perhaps, of all—viz., mercury, seems to have almost as much tendency to cause the destruction of red corpuscles ns iron has to promoto their formation. PATHOLOGICAL CONDITIONS OF THE WHITE CORPUSCLES. An increase in the number of the white corpuscles has been observed in several morbid as well as physiological conditions. It will be instructive to consider first those variations which occur in a state of health. It is found that they are present in larger pro- portion after food has been taken, and are much diminished in number (as compared with the red corpuscles) by prolonged fast- ing. The maximum seems to be attained about half an hour after meals. A decided increase has been observed in pregnancy, and also during menstruation. After considerable loss of blood the proportion of white corpuscles is also greatly increased; and the same thing has been observed in several diseases both acute and chronic. Among the former must be mentioned inflammations in general, and especially those of the lungs; typhus and typhoid fever; ague, and many so-called pyremic conditions, as well as more especially puerperal fever. Several of these cases have been described as cases of the occurrence of pus in the blood. According to other authorities, in many long wasting diseases a disproportionate number of white corpuscles may* be seen; but in such cases (as in some which have fallen under the observation of the editor) it is quite impossible to distinguish between an increase in the white corpuscles and that diminution in the red of which the general pallor and anamiia give evidence. This is, however, by no means true of the remarkable disease called leuchcemia or leucocythcemia, to which we shall recur presently. The moderate increase now spoken of has been termed leucocytosis. There does not appear to be any positive instance of diminution of the colourless corpuscles. PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES OF THE LIQUOR SANGUINIS. This fluid consists of a watery solution of certain inorganic salts, in which there are besides dissolved a large proportion of organic substances. These are distinguished into fibrine, albumen, extract- ive matter, and oil. "We shall consider each of theso separately. When fresh-drawn blood is loft to itself it very soon, as we know, passes from a liquid state into that of a solid mass—it coagulates. This chango can bo conclusively shown to be occa-PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES OF THE LIQUOR SANGUINIS. 15 sioned not by the corpuscular elements cohering together, as was once supposed, but by the solidification of one of the constituents of the fluid portion of the blood. Muller’s experiment of filtering frog’s blood, so as to separate the corpuscles, was decisive as to this point. The substance which thus spontaneously solidifies is termed fibrine, and the name evidently has reference to an inherent tendency which it possesses of assuming a fibrous arrangement. Fibrine, when separated from healthy blood, is a tough, tolerably film, elastic, stringy, whitish-grey looking substance. It is insoluble in water, and sinks in this fluid, or even in the serum from which it has been separated. Under the microscope it appears as an homogenec -granular or basis substance, with more or less marked tendency to fibrillate, or form actual fibres. The white corpuscles of the blood are very commonly seen imbedded in the fibrinous mass, but they do not appear to contri- bute to modify its character. This, at least, is true of healthy fibrine ; of diseased we shall presently speak. Lehmann describes as follows the actual process of coagulation of the fibrine as seen under the microscope. He says: “ There appear here and there individual points or molecular granules, from out of which very soon extremely fine straight threads spring, which go off in a radiating manner from that point, but do not form star-shaped masses, as in crystallization; these threads elongate themselves gradually more and more, and cross with those which have pro- ceeded from other solid points, so that at last the whole field of view appears as it were covered over with a fine, but somewhat felted network. Afterwards this network still proceeds to thicken, and the colourless corpuscles imbedded in it are often scarcely perceptible.” With regard to its chemical composition Lehmann remarks very properly that fibrine, such as we obtain, cannot by any means be considered as a pure substance ; it must contain the white corpuscles, and probably some amount of albumen and extractive matter, as well as salts. The nearest approximation to an exact analysis gives— C 52-6 H 7-0 N 17-4 O 21-8 S 1-2 100 . while the albumen of the blood serum contains — C 53'5 II 7 0 N 15-5 0 22-4 S 1-6 10016 USES OF FIBRINE. So that it must be regarded as belonging to the general group of albuminous substances. Fibrine is hardly known in solution ; and should probably not be regarded as ready formed in the blood, but rather as formed at the moment of coagulation, by the combi- nation of two substances called respectively the fibrino-plastic substance or paraglobulin, and the fibrinogenous substance or fibrinogen (Schmidt). The former is like, though not quite identical with, globuline, or the albuminous substance contained in large quantity in the red blood corpuscles. The latter is also an albu- minous substance, and is contained in all serous fluids, such as those of the pericardium and pleura, hydrocele fluid, &c., and also in blood serum. These substances artificially prepared and artifi- cially mixed produce a coagulum absolutely identical with natural fibrine. Spontaneous coagulation accordingly must depend on the combination of these two substances, though it is not clear why they do not always combine. For a discussion of these questions we must refer to books on physiology. USES -OF FIBRINE. One very important end which the fibrine serves is the formation of coagula at the orifice of wounded vessels, preventing the occur- rence of further hsemorrhage ^ and another is to form a temporary uniting medium of the sides of wounds. But a still higher dignity has been assigned to the fibrine ; it has been regarded very gene- rally as the plastic material, par excellence, from which all the tissues are formed, and the small amount of it present in blood was sup- posed to show that it was constantly being drawn off for the nutri- tion of the tissues as fast as it was formed. Of late years, however, much evidence has been adduced, which at least goes some way to establish an opposite view, and throws considerable doubt ou the correctness of the old opinion. It should never be forgotten that by fibrine is commonly meant, not a chemical substance, but a mass imbedding the red and white cells, the latter of which certainly have some capacity for growth and organization. TV e will review the arguments on both sides. In support of the specially plastic and orgauizable character of fibrine, it is argued that it seems to bo by its means that the reparation of wounds S’ effected. A thin layer of coagulating, fibrillating material is the medium which unites and holds together the divided surfaces, and forms the first organic connection. So also when a fluid containing much fibrine is effused on the surface of sorous membranes, it very commonly forms bands of adhesion passing between the opposed layers. These now-formed structures resemble very much normal, white, fibrous tissue. There is evidence to show that layers, and even masses of fibrine, contain- ing leucocytes, are capable of being organized; so far, at least, as to become fibroid tissues, and that vascular networks are developed17 USES OE FIBRINE. in them. Andral mentions a case of apoplectic effusion in the subtance of the brain, in which—death having occurred many years after—a mass, of pale red colour and fibrous appearance, and traversed by numerous small blood vessels, anastomosing with those of the brain, was discovered. M. Louis has recorded the occurrence of a vascularized coagulum in a tuberculous cavity in the lungs; and many similar instances have been noticed, in which the fibrine of effused blood has evinced its capacity for organization. But how lowly is this organization, never in any known instance amounting to more than the formation of a fibrous tissue, more or less closely resembling the natural. This, almost of itself, is a proof that fibrine is not the peculiarly organizable and plastic element that it has been considered to be. It may also be said that albumen, which is the only other organizable constituent of the blood, shows no tendency, even when collected in large quantity, as in the fluid of ascites, to pass into any organized form; while fibrine, when effused, does at least assume the appearance of a lowly organized tissue. The condition, moreover, of the fibrine seems to be in some manner an indication of the vigour and health of the system. If it contracts well, and forms a firm, dense clot, there is reason so far to conclude that the constitution is sthenic and unbroken ; but if, on the contrary, the clot be soft and easily broken up, the system is probably in an > opposite condition. The above statements seem to amount to this, that fibrine is certainly capable of assuming a low type of organ- ization ; but they entirely fail to show that it is the special blood constituent which is applied to the nutrition of the different tissues, and that therefore its abundance is a sign of vigour and health. On the other side, the counter-evidence which we have to adduce is certainly of great force. Bleeding, which we saw to have a powerful effect in diminishing the quantity of red corpuscles, has none such upon the fibrine; nay, it rather seemed to tend to increase it. In Andral’s ninth case of articular rheumatism the fibrine at the second bleeding was 7, and at the third 6, while in the first it was 5-4. In the tenth case at the fourth bleeding it presented the extraordinary figure of 10-2 per 1,000, while in the first it did not amount to more than 6T. The globules, however were reduced by the three subsequent bleedings from 123T to 101. Starving also, instead of lessoning, was found to increase the quantity of fibrine. An increase in this element was found in meagre, half-starved horses, amounting to as much as 7 or 8 beyond the healthy mean; and in one case, where no food was given for four days, the quantity of fibrine was found increased from 5 to 9. On the other hand, the improvement of a species which we found to be marked by an increase in the proportion of globules, seems to be also characterized, though less strongly, by a diminution in the quantity of fibrino. The average quantity of fibrine in a flock of sheep of pure blood was determined by Andral to be 3T ; in a cross-bred flock, the average was only 2-8. The CUSES OF FIBEDTE. 18 blood of the foetus and of the new-born animal, in whom certainly development and growth are proceeding rapidly, and in whom there must, therefore, be a constant demand for plastic material, is rich in globules, but poor in fibrine. Andral found in lambs, during the first twenty-four hours after birth, a proportion of fibrine only amounting to 1*9 per 1,000 ; at the end of the fourth day it had risen to 3 parts. This observation, as well as the familiar effect of diseases preventing the due oxygenation of the blood, in causing it to remain fluid after death, which seems to imply the non-formation or destruction of the fibrine, points very clearly, as it seems to us, to the conclusion that fibrine is an oxida- tion-product, and rather belonging to the descending series of de- structive assimilation, than to the ascensive, plastic, and formative. That fibrine takes an important part in the reparative process cannot be doubted; we constantly find it forming the uniting medium between divided parts, but have we any evidence that it becomes further developed, and passes into the form of any tissue more highly organized than that of the cicatrix P Surely there is not the least, or rather all that we know of the process of repara- tion tends to contradict such an idea. The case of a divided nerve serves to illustrate this point very well. Within a short time after the operation the cut ends of the nerve are united together by fibrinous effusion, which has solidified round them; this passes afterwards on into the form of imperfect fibrous tissue, and so the apparent continuity of the nerve is restored. But we know that it is not really restored until very much later; we know that many months must elapse ere the severed nerve-tubules can be again connected by their own proper tissue, and their function restored. Now, in this really reparative act there is no reason to believe that fibrine takes any prominent part, that it is at all more concerned than the albumen and oily matter of the blood, which are the elements, chemically considered, of which the nerve-matter actually consists. In the same way, in every organizing act in which there is more than the mere coagulation of fibrine, albuminous serum is also present, and we have no reason to. exclude it from partici- pating in the formative process. .Once more, if we take instances where deposition of fibrine has almost exclusively taken place, do we find development and growth proceeding actively in these deposits or not ? The wall of an aneurismal sac is often lined with dense layers of coagulated fibrine, and yet Professor Simon testifies that on the most careful examination of these layers no trace whatever is to be found of new organization. So it is with the masses of fibrine that are deposited in the spleen, the kidney, and in other parts. They show, after a time, a tendency to retrograde and dissolve, but none to develop into any higher grade. The small, fibrinous, sub-pleural nodules often seen in tolerably healthy lungs, are favourably circumstanced as regards vascular supply, for growth and further development; but they do not appear to enlarge or manifest any vital activity. The deposits of fibrineVARIATIONS IN FIBRINE. 19 ■upon the valves of the heart, the wrongly-called vegetations, in like manner, show no innate capacity of development and growth ; they tend to contract and harden, or to become penetrated with calcareous matter, and never show any • organized arrangement beyond a low grade of fibrousness. The circumstance which seems to have contributed most, or at least very greatly, to establish the opinion of the highly plastic quality of fibrine is, that its quantity is found to be so very largely increased in sthenic inflammatory diseases. Not only its appear- ance in the thick, huffy coat, but the quantity of solid effused matter, forming layers of false membrane, of considerable firmness and thickness, together with the character of the attendant symp- toms, inspired an idea that the substance thus abounding in these diseases of marked sthenic type, and so called increased action, and comparatively deficient in affections of asthenic type, was that which was especially plastic, and employed in the construction of all the various tissues in healthy nutrition. While thus rejecting the doctrine that fibrine is the sole or chief plastic element, we do not wish, on the other hand, to deny its importance, when of proper quality, in maintaining the due con- sistence of the blood, and in fulfilling such other purposes as those at which we have glanced. We now proceed to consider the varia- tions of this substance, in different morbid conditions, as to quantity and quality. VARIATIONS IN FIBRINE. The average for the fibrine of ordinary venous blood, adopted by Andral, is 3 parts per 1,000, but most observers place it rather lower. Scherer found in the blood of healthy men 2-03—2'63 parts. Its quantity, as mentioned, is greater in arterial than in venous blood, and is said by Schmidt, after numerous examina- tions, to be only one-third in portal venous blood of its ordinary amount in that of the jugular vein. Sex does not appear to affect the proportion of fibrine, but the state of pregnancy does mate- rially; in the first six months the quantity is decreased, the average being 2-3 ; during the last three months the quantity is increased, so as to average 4. After parturition the quantity for a time seems to be still further increased, a circumstance which may have some relation to the tendency to uterine inflammation and mammary abscess, which marks this period. In very early infancy the quantity of fibrine in the blood appears to be small, but it experiences a marked increase at the period of puberty. Lehmann, in experiments upon himself and Nasse, in experiments upon dogs, found that animal diet increased the proportion of fibrine above that which was found under a vegetable diet. Increase of Fibrine.—Passing now to the morbid conditions in which the fibrine is found increased, we find, as a general law, that in all inflammatory diseases especially this is the case. InVARIATIONS IN FIBRINE. 20 acute articular rheumatism, Andral records in one case as high a proportion of tibrino as 10'2 per 1,000, in several others it amounted to 0, 7, 8, or 9. In bronchitis (acute) the highest figure obtained was 9-3, in pneumonia 10-5. The maximum in pleurisy was 5-8, in peritonitis 7-2. The increase was nearly the same in one case of erysipelas, in which it amounted to 7‘3, and in another of ton- sillitis, in which it was 7-2. A very important circumstance, well shown by Andral’s tables, is, that the effect of bleeding was not to diminish the fibrine ; in this respect there was a marked con- trast between the fibrine and the red globules; the latter sunk with each successive abstraction of blood, while the former most often rose, sometimes considerably. The following examples of this fact are very striking:— 1st bleeding. 2nd. 3rd. 4 tli. Acute Bheumatism 6-l 7-2 7-8 10-2 Pneumonia ... 7-1 8-2 9-0 10-0 Peritonitis ... 3'8 4-7 6-1 Pleurisy . ... 3-9 5-8 In tuberculization of the lungs the fibrine shows a decided increase, which, however, is most marked when intercurrent inflammation is set up in the part. In the crude state of the tubercles the mean of the fibrine is about 4; when softening has commenced it is about 4'5; when cavities have formed it is from 5 to 5'5. The red particles steadily decrease from the first. In chlorotic persons the quantity of fibrine is maintained at its usual average, and is sometimes a little above; this circumstance, taken together with the great diminution of the globules, accounts for the formation of a huffy layer on the surface, which is not un- common in such blood. Deficiency of Fibrine.—This is observed in very various morbid conditions. If we take as a certain indication the non-coagulated state of the blood (which, perhaps, we are warranted in doing), it seems to be very deficient, generally, in all diseases proving fatal by asphyxia, or in which the respiration has been considerably interfered with for some time before death. Thus in cases of obstructive heart disease, the blood is very commonly in a fluid state, or very imperfectly coagulated, the coagula, such as they are, being very soft, and extremely friable. The same state is observed in cases of cyanosis, in which, owing to mixture of the venous and arterial blood, this fluid is never properly oxygenated. Excessive fatigue is said to prevent the blood from coagulating, but this has been contradicted by Mr. Gulliver, who found the blood coagulated in a hunted stag, and in two hares run down by harriers. Various poisons seem to have the effect of preventing coagulation of the blood; among these are hydrocyanic acid, car- bonic acid, sulphuretted and carburetted hydrogen. Andral states that if a concentrated solution of caibonate of soda be injected into a vein the animal presents the symptoms of typhus or scurvy (?.e.21 VARIATIONS IN FIBRINE. of a blood disease), and the blood is found fluid in the vessels. This statement is confirmed by Mr. Blake, and tbe same result proved to be produced by many other substances; others again, though of vexy analogous character, produced a contrary effect. For instance, when caustic soda or carbonate of soda was employed, the blood was coagulated imperfectly, or not at all; but when liquor potassse or its carbonate was used, the blood coagulated firmly. We have ourselves observed the formation of a huffy layer on the blood of an animal who had taken liquor potassse for several days, to the extent of disordering its health. Nitrate of potash and many other neutral salts did not at all impede the coagulation of the blood, while arsenious and oxalic acid, infusion of digitalis, and some metallic astringent salts did so decidedly. We may infer from these observations that it is not the alkalies, as such, nor the neutral salts, as such, which produce the effects that are usually ascribed to them, upon the blood, but certain substances of particular qualities. Again, in adynamic fevers, we often find the blood remarkably fluid, so as to gravitate after death to all the depend- ing parts, and during life probably occasioning a tendency to haemorrhages, petechiae, and vibices, which occasionally take place. The deficiency of fibrine in these cases is confirmed by analysis. Andral noticed some diminution of this element in the outset of continued fevers. It never increased except on the supervention of an inflammation, and in the height of the disease sometimes sunk very low. In two cases, on the fifteenth day, it did not amount to more than 1 per 1000. A deficiency of fibrine might have been anticipated to exist in purpura haemorrhagica; and, indeed, sometimes this seems to be the case. Simon, in his “ Animal Chemistry,” gives two analyses, in one of which it is mentioned that there was no fibrine, in the other it only amounted to 0-905. Dr. Watson, speaking of this, or of the allied disease— scurvy—quotes a case, recorded by Huxham, in which ‘ ‘ neither of the portions of blood that had been drawn separated into serum and crassamentum as usual, though it had stood many hours, but continued, as it were, half-coagulated, and of a bluish-livid colour on the top. It was most easily divided on the slightest touch, and seemed a purulent sanies rather than blood, with a kind of sooty powder at bottom.” Dr. Copland and others refer to similar cases. On the other hand, Dr. Budd testifies that in some cases of scurvy, the coagulation takes place as in healthy blood; and in two cases lately examined by Dr. Parkes, it appears that the fibrine, at least, was not in any great degree diminished.* Dr. Graves also mentions a case in which, after each of three bleedings, there was formed a firm coagulum, with a huffy coat. The plethoric con- * In five analyses performed by Becquerel and Rodier the general results were as follow The clot was always of good consistence, the density of the serum low, the water increased, the quantity of globules diminished as well as their ferruginous contents; the fibrine was never diminished—sometimes increased: there was no in- crease of alkalinity or of salts ; the solids of the serum were notably diminished.22 VARIATIONS IN FIBRINE. dition, characterized as we have seen by an excess in the quantity of red globules, and evidencing a tendency to congestion and haemorrhage, is considered by Andral as generally associated with a deficient proportion of fibrine. He found in a strong, athletic man, who had symptoms of cerebral congestion, as low a figure of fibrine as 1 '6, and remarks that the minimum quantity occurred in those cases in which the symptoms of congestion were most intense. In a female, who had been struck down senseless by an attack of apoplexy, the first bleeding showed the small proportion of 1'9 of fibrine, the globules being at 175’5. After three days, when consciousness had begun to return, she was bled again ; and now the fibrine amounted to 3'5, while the globules had diminished Quality of Fibrine.—Alterations in the quality of the fibrine manifest themselves very clearly in the varying size and firmness of the coagulum, which forms in blood drawn from a vein, as well as in the peculiarities of structure which microscopic examination reveals. We will consider the general and the textural differ- ences separately. To estimate aright the condition of the coagu- lum of the blood a full stream should be allowed to flow from a sufficient orifice into a deep vessel, which should be afterwards covered over, and should have been previously warmed. If drawn in a small, trickling stream, and received into a cold, shallow vessel, or if subsequently agitated, the coagulation is disturbed, and takes place either too rapidly, or forms, in the case of being agitated, irregular shreds. The coagulum, when formed, may be very large and farm, so as to offer considerable resistance when an attempt is made to divide it. This implies a fair proportion, or, perhaps, rather increa&ed, of healthy fibrine, with a considerable amount of red corpuscles. I have been informed of the case of a plethoric female whom it was necessary to bleed frequently during her pregnancy. The coagulum was described to me as so firm “ that it might have been kicked from one end of a room to the other.” On the other hand, the coagulum may he large, but so lax as to be very easily divided, and, if handled, readily breaking up. This implies either a deficient quantity of fibrine, or a defective contractile quality, or rnost commonly both. It may generally be taken as a positive sign tha i bleeding is not necessary, and that it will not be borne well, lhe coagulum, again, may be very firm, but considerably shiunken and contracted, manifesting this not only by its recession from the sides of the vessel, but by the concavity of its upper surface, which at the same time is covered with a layer, more or less thick, of a light-yellow colour. This layer is fibrine separated from the red corpuscles, and is commonly termed the “buffy coat. In this case the quantity of fibrine is much increased, and probably also its contractile quality, which occasions the reduced size of the clot, and the drawing in of the surface, or, as it Ts called, “ the cup- pin0’.” A buffy coat sometimes forms on the surface ot clots winchT VARIATION'S IN FIBRINE. 23 are rather deficient in firmness; it is, however, hut thin, rather transparent, and produces no “cupping.” It is mostly seen in rather asthenic conditions of the system, and from its appearance the blood which presents it is distinguished as “ sizy.” A very small, firm clot, with a more or less huffy surface, indicates a diminu- tion of the red corpuscles, and at least a relative excess of fibrine. The following circumstances * are favourable to the formation of the buffy coat:—(1.) Slowness of coagulation, which gives the red corpuscles more time to sink. (2.) Increased weight of the corpuscles, and their aggregation together into rouleaux. (3.) A diminution in the specific gravity of the serum. (4.) A great diminution in the proportionate quantity of the red corpuscles, or an increase in that of fibrine. None of these circumstances, how- ever, seem to us to account fully for the phenomenon in question ; and we are much inclined to believe, with Dr. Alison, that there exists an absolute tendency to separation between the fibrine and the corpuscles, somewhat, perhaps, of the nature of that which prevents the commixture of some dissimilar fluids. He remarks : “ 1st. That the formation of the buffy coat, though no doubt favoured or rendered more complete by slow coagulation, is often observed in cases where the coagulation is more rapid than usual; and the colouring matter is usually observed to retire from the surface of the fluid in such cases before any coagulation has com- menced. 2nd. The separation of the fibrine from the colouring matter in such cases takes place in films of blood, so thin as not to admit of a stratum of the one being laid above the other. They separate from each other laterally, and the films acquire a speckled or mottled appearance, equally characteristic of the state of the blood with the buffy coat itself.” It does not seem necessary to assume that there is any actual repulsion of the red particles from the fibrine, the tendency to separation may simply depend on the increased attraction (which is manifest) of the respective parts of each element together. The differences in textural quality, which fibrine often presents, have been admirably described by Rokitansky aDd Mr. Paget. As, however, the former seems to have altered his opinion, we omit the description he has given, though our own observation inclines us to think it is substantially correct. Professor Paget, agreeing closely with Rokitansky’s previous account, expresses the same facts more shortly and simply. His description refers, however, to fibrine, as it appears in exudations ; while that of the Gorman pathologist is expressly confined to the • Dr. Todd and Mr. Bowman’s “ Physiological Anatomy,” vol. ii. p. 295. It must be remarked, however, with regard to diminished density of the serum, that Mr Gul- liver has shown that in serum rendered thicker, heavier, and more viscid, by the addi- tion of mucilage, the red corpuscles subsided not only more rapidly, but also more completely, than in serum, which was rendered thinner, lighter, and less viscid by being mixed with a saline solution. Mr. Wharton Jones—from whom we have’ in part, taken the above passage-believes that the viscid state of the liquor sanguinis promotes the subsidence of the red corpuscles, by increasing their natural tendenev to aggregate together.CHANGES OF BLOOD CLOTS. 24 Fig. 1. fibrinous coagula which are found within the vascular system; and the variations may therefore depend upon the greater or less facility with which the white corpuscles leave the blood vessels. The correspondence, how- ever, between the fibrine in and out of the vessels is so close that the characters of the one apply also to the other; and we may therefore say that all the varieties of the fibrine of the blood, as manifested by the condition of the coagula, depend upon the predominance of one of two forms of struc- ture. In healthy fibrine the fibrous structure greatly predominates, the whole mass fibril- lates more or less perfectly, and the included corpuscles are comparatively few. This is Mr. Paget’s fibrinous variety. Unhealthy fibrine, which tends to disintegration, consists of a granular mass, imbedding very numerous nuclei and cell-formations ; this is the corpus- cular variety. These two correspond to Roki- tansky’s first and fourth varieties; and his second and third are only combinations of them in different proportions. ■ifm.SsSS Corpuscular unhealthy fibrine, from exudation on pericardium. It con- gists of an homogeneous granular basis, imbed- ding numerous corpus- cles. Fio. 2. Softening fibrine from a vein dot. The dark points are minute oil drops. CHANGES OF BLOOD CLOTS. We shall here briefly notice the metamorphoses which blood- coagula may undergo :—(1.) A more or less perfect develojmient ol fibre may take place, in which the corpuscles are chiefly concerned. (2.) The coagula may fall to pieces, and undergo a kind ol disso- lution into a pappy or pus-like fluid, or in some cases into a fluid which is really of the nature of pus. This change may befall coagula of healthy fibrine, in consequence of their being placed m25 CHEMICAL CONSTITUENTS OF THE SERUM. conditions unfavourable to fibre-development, but is more par- ticularly observed in the corpuscular varieties. It was shown by Mr. Gulliver that the puriform fluid often found in vessels was really flbrine which had undergone softening; and it was an important step to prove that such collections of pus-like matter were not the result of phlebitis; but in recognizing their non- inflammatory origin, perhaps, it has not been seen clearly how very similar, or even identical, they might be with certain forms of true pus. (3.) The flbrine may part with some of its natural moisture, and change into a resisting, stiff, dull, translucent, or also opaque, horny mass. In process of time it may become calcified. (4.) It may undergo fatty transformation, becoming converted into a mass of small, oily molecules or drops. (5.) It may gradually be dissolved and taken up again into tho circula- tion. Rokitansky mentions, as an instance of this, the removal of fibrinous vegetations from the cardiac valves. CHEMICAL CONSTITUENTS OF THE SERUM. Albumen is the principal nitrogenous constituent of the serum, in which it exists, dissolved in water, in the proportion of 63 to 72 parts per 1,000 of blood. The specific gravity of the serum is on an average 1'028, and varies less than that of the entire blood. The serum is naturally of a light yellow colour, which does not appear to depend on the presence of haemoglobin or of bile pigment, but to be special to this fluid. We have already expressed our dissent from the doctrine that the flbrine is the sole or chief material intended for the growth and nutrition of the tissues, and fully believe that the albumen is quite as much or more applied to this purpose. We have no means at present of ascertaining numerous qualitative variations which probably affect the albumen of the serum. Indeed we cannot but believe that its composition must be liable to continual minute changes, as on the one hand nutritive material for various tissues is drawn off from it, and on the other, chyle, scarce yet raised to the blood-standard, and lymph, contain- ing effete or semi-effete residua of nutrition, aro poured into it. AH such, however, to a certain extent, are clearly natural; and were our powers of analysis greatly more refined, we should probably find that it was by the most gradual steps that physio- logical variations passed into morbid. Increase of Albumen.—The amount of albumen, according to Andral and Gavarret, is notably increased in various diseases; but this excess does not appear to be characteristic of any. In acute rheumatism an increase was found varying from 4 to 24in pneu- monia, the highest increase was about 12; in pleurisy, the extraor- dinary amount of 34 in excess was once observed ; and several other instances are mentioned of lower degree. Peritonitis, tonsillitis, and erysipelas all furnish cases in which there was more or less considerable increase of the albumen. This is the case also in26 CHEMICAL CONSTITUENTS OF THE SERUM. tubercular disease of the lungs, and in simple and continued fevers. Bleeding does not appear to influence the quantity of albumen in a very constant way; on the whole it tends to decrease it; and this seems to be especially the case in typhoid fever. In cases of cerebral congestion and of apoplexy, generally considered as examples of plethora, there was found, especially in the former, a very considerable increase in many cases of the albumen. This amounted once to 24-8 beyond the mean. In the latter there were several instances of marked diminution. Cases of chlorosis, in which the globules are so remarkably diminished, show rarely any diminution of albumen; and sometimes a considerable excess, amounting to 14 or 20 parts per 1000. Diminution of Albumen.—Diminution of the albumen of the serum probably takes place in various diseases, attended with defective nutrition and wasting, but has been more particu- larly observed in renal dropsy. It appears as if the albu- men of the serum, being drained off in the urine, and in the dropsical efflux, there remains behind a less quantity in the blood. This idea is confirmed by the results of three succes- sive analyses of Andral’s, in the first of which there being much albumen in the urine, the serum contained only 57'9; in the second, the urine containing less albumen, the amount in the serum had increased to 66; in the third, the urine being no longer albuminous, the quantity in the serum had returned to its normal figure, 72. In one of our own cases, anasarcous fluid had a specific gravity of only 10-14 ; it contained much albumen; was weakly alkaline. The patient had morbus Brightii. It is also in accordance with the circumstance noticed by Dr. Bright and others, of low specific gravity of the serum in this disease. Still this explanation does not accord with the general fact, that dropsical effusions are more watery, and contain less albumen than the serum, which one would therefore expect to find of greater density in such cases. Probably the supply of such albumen, both from the chyle and lymph, is defective in quality and quan- tity. Becquerel and Bodier state that in diseases of the heart the albumen of the serum varies but- little, as long as there is no dropsy; then it diminishes, and often considerably. In the disease called the rot, affecting sheep, which is characterized by the presence of numerous distomata (flukes) in the biliary ducts, M. Andral and his coadjutors found the albumen of the blood considerably diminished, as well as the red globules, while the water was greatly increased. Sheep are also subject to ordinary anaemia, i.e., to a deficiency of red globules only in the blood, the albumen remaining at its normal amount; and it is very worthy of remark, that in these latter cases dropsy does not take place, while in sheep affected with the rot it is not uncommon. This seems to point out that when in cases of cachexia and debility serous infiltra- tions of the limbs occur, it is owing to a diminution in the quantity of albumen in the blood.27 OILY MATTER IN THE BLOOD. EXTRACTIVE MATTERS. Chemistry has as yet ascertained too little respecting these substances, even in the healthy condition, to make any conclusion possible regarding their variations in disease. Simon’s division into water extract, proof spirit extract, and alcohol extract is of no avail for physiology or pathology. As his eminent namesake remarks, what we want is a division of these matters according to the organs or systems of organs that produce them. Still the recog- nition of the existence of such matters in the blood is important, as showing us the actual presence of principles that are effete, or tending to become so in this fluid, and reminding us how often ill- health and malaise may depend on the formation of unnatural products of this kind, which come at length to he generated by an almost habitual vice of the system. According to Lehmann’s estimate, the quantity of extractive matter in healthy blood is 0-25 to 0'42 per 100. Nasse found a larger proportion in the blood of children and of young animals than in that of adults. Arterial blood, according to Lehmann, contains more than venous blood in the proportion of 5-374 parts to 3-617. Portal vein blood of horses, five to ten hours after food, contained on an average 7 "422 parts; twenty-four hours after food the quantity amounted to 10 ; but it was always less than that existing in hepatic vein blood, which averaged above 18. The existence of a larger quantity of extractive matter in arterial than in venous blood, may perhaps be accounted for by the increased oxydation of some of the organic matters which takes place in and after the passage of the blood through the lungs. The large amount in the blood of young growing creatures is in correspondence with the greater activity of their circulation and their nutritive processes generally. The excess in the hepatic vein above the portal blood indicates that an absorption of matter from the hepatic cells into the current traversing the lobules takes place. Liebig has particularly desciibed three substances which appear to belong to the class of extractive matter, creatin, creatinin, and inosfnic acid; the two former seem to be of the nature of alkaloids, the latter com- bines with bases as an acid. They are all nitrogenized sub- stances, and are found in the watery extract of muscle; the two former are present in the urine, and have been detected in the hlood, though in very minute quantity. Creatin, Lehmann states, is analogous to thein, an alkaloid, which in some trials has produced very severe nervous symptoms, even when taken in small doses. May slight chemical changes in creatin or the allied substances render them capable of producing any similar pheno- mena P OILY MATTER IN THE BLOOD. The quantity of oil existing in the blood cannot be estimatedOILY MATTER IN THE BLOOD. 28 only from the amount contained in the serum, for it is present also in the red corpuscles and in the fibrine. The quantity contained in the crassamentum, which is made up of these two components, is not much inferior to that in the serum. The serum of arterial blood contains less oily matter than that of venous. Lehmann gives 0’2G4 per cent, as the proportion in the first, 0-393 percent, in the latter.* Chevreul gives the quantity of oily matter in blood-clot as amount- ing to 4 or 44 per cent. Lecanu distinguishes a crystallizable and non-crystallizable oily matter in the blood, the former in the pro- portion of 1-20 to 2'10, the latter in that of 1 to 1-30 per 1000 parts of serum. Cholesterine is the only crystalline fatty sub- stance which has been certainly found in blood ; it is of very common occurrence in exudations in various parts, .and in some tumours; it forms the well-known rhomboid tablets by which, when in a solid form, it is immediately recognized. The blood of females, according to Becquerel, contains on an average more fatty matter than that of men. In both sexes the quantity of choles- terine increases with advancing years, after the age of forty or fifty. It seems established, as was natural to expect, that the quantity of oily matter in the blood increases after taking food. A milky state of the serum had often been observed, but though it was generally supposed to depend on the admixture of chyle, this could hardly be said to have been proved until lately. Dr. Buchanan’s experiments upon healthy persons show that the serum “ becomes turbid about half an hour after taking food, the dis- coloration increases during several hours, attains its maximum in about six or eight (after a full meal), and then becomes gradually clearer till its limpidity is restored. The opaque serum is generally milk-white, sometimes cream-yellow, or yellowish brown, like thin oatmeal gruel; or it merely loses its limpidity, and is like weak syrup. It always contains solid white granules, smaller than the blood corpuscles, which are suspended in it, and which will rise in a white cream to the surface, either spontaneously or after the fluid has been saturated with common salt. The cream thus obtained is soluble in caustic potash, hut insoluble in ether or alcohol, and is considered by Dr. B. D. Thomson as probably a proteine compound.” A permanent milkiness of the serum, inde- pendent of variations in the supply of food, must be regarded as a morbid condition. It is especially seen in drunkards. In a case of this kind, which lately came under our observation, this was so strongly marked that a single drop of blood drawn by the prick of a needle became immediately surmounted by a white opaque layer, resembling cream. The microscope showed the serum to be crowded with fatty molecules, presenting an active Brownian move- ment. They were unaffected by acetic acid ; a notable quantity of fat could be extracted by ether. The man’s general health was a Lehmann found in 100 parts of dried blood corpuscles of the ox 2249 of oily matter; arterial blood corpuscles contained 1'824 parts of oily matter per ICO thereof; venous blood 3'596 parts.29 SALINE INGREDIENTS. .good; he confessed to drinking freely, but was by no means ^generally inebriate. The microscopic appearance of milky serum, ias we have observed it, has depended on the presence of a diffused ifinely divided matter, much resembling the molecular base of the ■chyle. Sometimes, however, distinct oil drops are observed. The ^general result of Becquerel and Eodier’s very careful analysis of ‘the blood in various diseases, with regard to the variations in the quantity of oil, is that almost from the outset of every acute lidisease the amount is increased, and particularly that of the icholesterine. Diseases of the liver, Bright’s disease, and tuber- culosis have the same effect. SALINE INGREDIENTS. There remain for our consideration the various salts of the iblood, and the water which holds them in solution. The amount oof salts in the blood of man is somewhat greater than in the blood oof woman; that of the former contains, on an average, 8-8 per cent., that of the latter 8*1; in both sexes the variations compatible vwith health are considerable. The blood of adults contains more ?salts than that of children; arterial blood more than venous. The [prolonged use of aliments containing much common salt is said to cause an increase in the proportion of the latter, and of the other -salts generally. The following appear to be the principal saline combinations in the blood:—chloride of sodium and potassium, -sulphate of potash, carbonate and phosphate of soda. Of the ^alterations which the salts undergo in different diseases we have rmot much knowledge. In malignant cholera the excessive drain : tells most on the fluid part of the blood, and hence that remaining in the vessels is thick and tarlike; hence, also, the extraordinary, •.though temporary, effect of injecting saline solutions, which return ‘ to the blood the material effused from it, and revive all the functions that were well nigh extinct. Doubtless, if the intestinal discharges could be arrested, the effect would be permanent, but as it is their effect is soon exhausted. Yogel states that “the salts are increased in scurvy, and it is very probable that this change influences the condition of the fibrine, hindering its coagul- ability, and, perhaps, checking its formation ; that it affects°the blood corpuscles, by withdrawing their water, rendering them .granular, and collecting them in heaps ; and that it thus plays an • essential part in the disease itself.” However, his statement has t been contradicted rather than confirmed. In the cases of purpura • examined by Dr. Parkes, which have been alluded to, the quan- tity of salts seems to have been below the average. In acute ^exanthemata, in dysenteric affections, in endemic agues, Leh- mann mentions the proportion of the salts to be increased, as -ilso in Bright’s disease, in typhus, and in all kinds of dropsv xnd hydrsemia. In violent inflammation the salts are much30 WATEE. diminished. This, however, seems very questionable with regard to sodium chloride. WATEE. Lecanu’s estimate of the mean quantity of water in 1,000 parts of blood is 790; he found more water in the blood of women than in that of men, more in the blood of children and of aged and debilitated persons than in that of vigorous adults, more in the lymphatic than in the sanguineous temperament. It is clear that the whole quantity of water is not contained in the serum, a certain proportion, which must vary with the specific gravity of the blood, is enclosed in the red corpuscles, and holds their colouring matter in solution. The serum of arterial blood and of portal vein blood is said by Lehmann to contain more water than that of venous blood generally. It is a very remarkable circum- stance, and strongly indicative of wise provision, that it is very difficult to demonstrate by analysis an actual increase of the quantity of water in the blood after copious drinks have been taken. Denis and Schultz are at issue as to whether such an increase is detectible or not. This seems to show how exactly the vascular system is kept at a certain degree of tension, so that in proportion as absorption at one part takes place, excretion at another ensues correspondingly. % The effect of bleeding and starving, which was before noticed, of reducing the amount of globules, tells, of course, proportionally, in increasing the quan- tity of water; this can easily be ascertained, as it is in great measure relative; the merely positive increase is much more doubtful. Andral mentions a case of confirmed chlorosis, in which the water in the blood amounted to 867'9, an increase of nearly 78 parts per 1000. Lehmann states that in the beginning of most diseases, especially acute ones, the blood is found more watery than natural, the serum, however, at the same time, being richer in solid contents. He accounts for this by supposing, that the material which should have been applied to the formation of the globules, or which results from their decay, remains in the serum. During the first ten days of typhus, the first stage of scarlet fever, measles, and cholera, this increase in the watery constituents of the blood does not appear to take place. In cholera the most striking diminution in the proportion of water takes place ; apparently as a consequence of the immense transudation of fluid into the intestines. Other changes are, how- ever, also present; the serum becomes not only richer in albu- men and salts, but also appears to withdraw from the corpuscles the salts proper to them, viz., potassium salts and phosphates (Kiihne). There are also physiological variations in the per- centage of water, which diminishes at first in starvation, but recovers itself if abundant water be ingested. The amount is also diminished by taking much salt.abnormal constituents of the blood. 31 The condition commonly called anaemia should, it would seem, more properly he named hydraemia, since in most cases it is not so : much a deficient quantity of blood, which it is intended to describe, as a defective quality. Perhaps a person reduced greatly by : phthisis, or any exhausting disease, is really in a state of anaemia, he has less blood than natural in his body, as well as too watery; l but a female suffering from the consequences of amenorrhoea, with ipale lips and face, is much more likely to be in a state of hydrse- imia, the mass of blood not being diminished, but its red corpuscles i replaced by water. The excess cannot, however, be sufficient i materially to alter the density of the fluid, since the corpuscles {preserve their form. ABNORMAL CONSTITUENTS OF THE BLOOD. Having examined the variations which the several constituent (elements of the blood are liable to undergo, we next proceed to imake a few remarks on certain abnormal matters which are occa- -sionally present in it. Carbonic acid gas, the product of respiration, i.e., of the conveyance of oxygen throughout every part of the tframe, becomes, if it accumulates beyond a certain small amount in the blood, the cause of serious disorder and speedily of death. 'Various diseases of the thoracic viscera, or impediments to the free ^action of the walls of the chest, prevent more or less the due oxy- genation of the blood, which is indicated by the dusky hue of the -complexion, the lividity of the lips, the sensation of oppression at ' the chest, and of dyspnoea. The larger the quantity of blood which ;is circulating in the vessels, and the more vigorous the state of health and the general activity of the functions, the greater must be the accumulation of carbonic acid when any asphyxiating cause begins to operate, and the more severely will its effects be mani- fested. If, however, the mass of blood be greatly diminished by exhausting drains, by diminution of food, and by non-develop- ment of its corpuscles, then the amount of respiratory action may be also greatly diminished without producing the svmptoms above mentioned. Thus, if a person in health should suddenly be deprived of one-half or three-fourths of his breathing apparatus, he would quickly die, suffocated; but a patient in the last stage of phthisis, whose lungs are destroyed to the same extent, may continue to live on without experiencing any notable dyspnoea! distress. In the same way, when during violent exertion, a .greatly increased quantity of carbonic acid is formed, the amount of oxygen introduced into the lungs requires to be increased in {proportion; and hence one cause of the hurried and pantim* : respiration. A hybernating animal scarcely breathes at all; its animal heat is not above tho temperature of the atmosphere, and all its functions are in abeyance; carbonic acid, therefore,' is not formed, and the inhalation of oxygen is not necessary \ABNORMAL CONSTITUENTS OF THE BLOOD. 32 life, reduced to this low ebb, continues in an atmosphere ■which would cause instant suffocation if the animal were awake. Man does not hybernate, but it seems highly probable that the system must temporarily have been in a similar state in those cases in which life has been restored after prolonged immersion for half an hour or more. In persons affected with the morbus caruleus, when, from some malformation, the pulmonic and systemic circulations are no longer kept distinct, we have the best oppor- tunities for observing the effect of an unnaturally venous condition of the blood. The following excellent description is given by Dr. Williams:—“Individuals thus affected are in a lower scale of animation. The slower processes of nutrition and secretion seem to go on pretty well, but the muscular power is low, slight exertions bring on symptoms of faintness, palpitation, suffocation, or insensibility, the animal heat is lower than natural, and there is greater suffering from the influence of cold. In short, all the powers of body and mind are slender, and are easily dis- ordered by any circumstances which tax their activity. In a few that reach mature age there is no sexual passion The subjects of cyanosis are said to be very liable to haemor- rhages, and when these occur spontaneously, or from acci- dental causes, it is very difficult to stop them. This must be ascribed to the deficiency of fibrine, which we have already found to occur where the changes of the blood by respiration are imperfect.” In what way does accumulation of carbonic acid in the blood prove fatal to life ? We find, after death from asphyxia, the left side of the heart comparatively empty, and its cavities con- tracted, the right side gorged with biood, as well as the veins generally; the lungs are also distended, and gorged with dark blood. Now, it has been shown that the essential cause of the failure of the circulation is not paralysis of the heart, or of the brain, though these may have some influence, but arrest of the blood in the capillaries of the lungs. _ „ . How this arrest is produced we have not sufficient positive information to enable us certainly to explain, but we see that it is a phenomenon of the same class as that congestion which has been mentioned as often occurring when the function of a part is suddenly put a stop to; or, as Dr. Carpenter expresses it gene- rally, ‘ ‘ the performance of the normal reaction between the blood and the surrounding medium (whether this be air, water, or solid organized tissue) is a condition necessary to the regular move- ment of the blood through the extreme vessels.” The correctness of this position is almost demonstrated by the following experi- ment of Dr. Reid. Having adapted an hcemadynamometer to systemic artery of an animal, and obstructed its respiration, he found that when non-oxygenated blood was beginning to circu- late, as shown by the commencing supervention of insensibility, the column of mercury in the tube was raised, indicating, ofABNORMAL CONSTITUENTS OF THE BLOOD. 33 course, an increased resistance to the onward flow through the . capillaries. In this instance the normal changes between the non-arterialized \ blood and the tissues could not take place, and, consequently, the Iblood could not freely pass through them. The converse of this (experiment is presented to us in the effect of cold on parts that . are exposed to it. The functions of the part are abolished, the ('circulation languishes, and at last ceases, the vessels remaining (■congested with venous blood, which is not carried onwards. Hence ? the blue or livid colour which the surface presents. In this case tthe vital power of the tissues seems to be paralyzed by the seda- ttive influence of the cold; and, as a consequence, their nutrition aand circulation are also brought to a stand. The arrest of the [pulmonary circulation in asphyxia seems very analogous to the fforegoing instance; the normal changes in the lung tissue having eceased, the blood is no longer able to traverse its capillary plexus ffreely, but stagnates there, and congests the part. Thus far we ssimply class together a number of similar phenomena, and educe fffom the circumstances common to them a kind of law, viz., that qquoted from Dr. Carpenter. But Dr. Draper has brought for- ward a view, which is extremely plausible and beautiful, and ^appears to us likely to prove of the greatest value in physiology aand pathology. It is founded on the statement “that if two lliquids communicate with one another in a capillary tube, or in sa porous or parenchymatous structure, and have for that tube or (structure different chemical affinities, movement will ensue, that !liquid which has the most energetic affinity will move with the eereatest velocity, and may even drive the other liquid entirely before it.” The essential idea appears to be this, that the on- coming liquid is attracted, particle by particle, to various points of the tissue which it traverses, that the attraction having taken place soon ceases, in consequence of an alteration being effected in the attracted fluid, and that then the particles of fluid, no longer retained or drawn to the part by attraction, are pushed on by fresh quantities of unaltered fluid, for which the tissue has attraction. Thus, in the systemic capillaries, the arterialized blood is attracted io the tissues, changed by the act of nutrition to venous, therewith .oses its capacity of being attracted, and is driven on by more urtenal blood coming up within the range of the tissue’s attraction I In the same way we may conceive an attraction to subsist between the venous blood and the air in the cells of the lung, which will, of course, cease as soon as the change from venous to arterial blood las been accomplished. The effect of this nutrition force, a term which we prefer to Dr. Carpenter’s “ capillary force,” is evidently 1 ;o promote remarkably the free transit of the blood throu gh a cart, and there can bo no doubt that the arrest or abolition ofthis orce must tend materially to obstruct the circulation. Hence in Asphyxia, the attraction probably continuing some time, but the lormal changes which liberate each particle from it not takim* DABNOHMAL CONSTITUENTS OF THE BLOOD. 31 place, the blood continually arrives and stagnates in the pulmonary capillaries. We have dwelt the longer on this subject, because it appears to us of so much importance to recognize the principle that the nutrition of' a part influences so materially the circulation of blood through it, and because we may often have occasion to refer to the view here enunciated. The poisonous influence of carbonic acid is well shown by the following comparative experi- ment of Bolando. He tied one of the bronchi in a tortoise, and found that the animal was not materially injured thereby, but when, instead of merely cutting off the access of air, he furnished a supply of carbonic acid to that lung, the other still receiving air, the animal died in a few hours. Urcemic Poisoning.—When the action of the kidneys is arrested, or seriously interfered with in any way, their secretion products are no longer carried out of the system, but remain in and contaminate the blood. The effects produced by the blood thus poisoned are some- what different, according as the secretion is more or less suddenly and completely suppressed. When the suppression occurs sud- denly the acute form of urcemia, as it is called, manifests itself. Frerichs describes three varieties of this. In the first, after some pain of the head, giddiness, or vomiting, the patient soon sinks into deep stupor, from which in no long while he cannot be aroused. In the second epileptic convulsions suddenly appear, affecting the whole muscular system, and returning after occasional intermissions. The consciousness may remain unaffected. In the third form both convulsions and coma occur. Such cases constitute the disease which received a separate name, as ischuria renahs, but they probably belong to the same class as the acute anasarca, which occurs sometimes spontaneously, or after scarlet or typhus fever, the anatomical characteristic of which is great sanguine engorgement of the kidney. Uraemia, in its chronic form, appears at the close of Bright’s disease very frequently. Frerichs describes it as coming on gradually and unperceived, occasioning dull head- ache or confused sensation, impairing the mental and bodily faculties, and producing some, dulness and drowsiness. -*-“®se symptoms may remit if the urinary secretion increases, or they may progress, and become more intense, the drowsiness deepen- ing into stupor and coma. Vomiting is a frequent symptom, in uraemia, and sometimes amaurosis, or disturbance of the hearing is observed. Diarrhoea sometimes takes place, and seems to avert the dangerous consequences of uraemia: it was a prominent symp- tom in the animals whose kidneys were extirpated by Provost and Dumas, and in those similarly treated by Bernard and Barreswiii, in the latter it was particularly observed that large quantities of ammoniacal fluid were poured out by the mucous membrane o the stomach and intestinal canal; while these continued t ie cerebral functions were unimpaired, but as soon as they ceased the symptoms of intoxication commenced. Inflammations ot the serous membranes, especially the pleura and pericardium, are veryABNORMAL CONSTITUENTS OF THE BLOOD. 35 i commonly produced by uraemic poisoning in a less severe form, t Cases of pericarditis of renal origin are nearly as frequent as those i of rheumatic. The term uraemia seems to imply that the poison- ; ing of the blood depends on the presence of urea, and such has long been the general belief, but numerous experiments and . observations of late have done much to invalidate it. The quan- ■ tity of urea in the blood and the intensity of the symptoms bear no proportion to each other; there may be much urea in the blood ; and no symptoms, and severe symptoms with little or no urea in the blood. Dr. Todd, Yauquelin, and others have injected urea, : into the veins of animals, or given it by the mouth, without pro- ducing any other effect than increasing very greatly the flow of urine. Still more, Frerichs has repeatedly injected human urine into the blood of animals without producing any ill effects. It seems clear then that it is not’ urea, nor any other constituents of the urine, that produce by their presence in the blood the symp- toms of poisoning. It may be, however, some of their decompo- sition products ;• and Frerichs states that he has proved it to be the carbonate of ammonia, which is well known to result from altered urea.. He has repeatedly demonstrated the presence of ammonia in the air- expired1 by the sick, and by animals into whose veins urea- had been injected after extirpation of the kidneys. Carbonate of ammonia, he says, can always be detected in the blood whenever ursemic symptoms exist, as well as usually traces of undestroyed urea. The very exact experiments of Kuhne have, however, shown that ammonia may be quite absent from the blood of animals dying of ursemic poisoning, since no reaction was given by a test sufficiently delicate to detect one-millionth part of carbonate of ammonia. The presence of an excess of urea in the blood, after extirpation of the kidneys, or ligature of the ureters, has been called in question, especially in cases of the fox-mer operation. The discrepancy seems to depend upon the amount of vomiting, since by this means much urea is got rid: of. In rabbits, which never vomit,, both these operations produce a considerable accumulation of urea in the blood. Succinic acid has also been found by Meissner in the blood of ursemic animals.*' It has therefore been suggested that “ ursemic poisoning ” is due to> the presence in the blood of nitrogenous bodies more complex than urea, which would, if the kidneys were acting normally, be changed into urea. What is the exact cause of the inflammations of the serous membranes, which often prove fatal in renal degenerations, does not seem made out; it does not appear to be the’ presenoe of urea in the blood, as we have no evidence that this, is capable’ of producing such effects. Frerichs thinks that tlie- impoverished state of the blood is an adequate cause, but in this we can hardly agree. While speaking of urea as a substanee abnormally pre- sent in the blood, it must not be left unnotioed that it is only its Ktlhne, “ Physiologiische Chemic,“ p, 250.ABNORMAL CONSTITUENTS OF THE BLOOD, 36 presence in anything like considerable quantity that is abnormal, since it has been clearly proved that a minute quantity exists in perfectly healthy blood of men and animals. The same is the case with another constituent of the urine, viz., uric acid, which exists naturally in small proportion in healthy blood, but accumulates therein from defect in the excreting functions of the kidney just before an attack of acute gout, and also in chronic. As it is deficient in the urine Dr. Grarrod’s conclusion seems just, that the chalk-like deposits appear to depend on an action in and round the joints vicarious of the uric acid excreting function of the kidneys. The well-known effects of the presence of this gouty matter (uric acid) in the blood, as the malaise and ill-health which precede the attack, the inflammation produced by its localization, and the occasional serious result of its transfer to more vital parts, illustrate exceedingly well the disturbing action of an excretory substance retained in the blood. Another nitrogenous substance which has been found in the blood is hippuric acid; but it is not known to haye any pathological significance. Other substances abnormally present in the blood are hypoxanthine and gelatine, which have been found by Scherer in leuchremia. The former sub- stance is of normal occurrence in the spleen ; and the latter occurs in that organ in the same disease, which is accompanied by its presence in the blood. Hence they are probably derived from the white oorpuscles; especially as Bodeker has obtained gelatine from pus .corpuscles. Whether bile, when present in the blood, is the cause of dis- orders, we do not certainly know. Its gradual disappearance as it passes down the intestinal canal is considered by Liebig as a proof that it is absorbed; but Lehmann is unable to find any trace of it in the blood of the portal vein. It may, therefore, be decomposed, and not .absorbed. Biliary pigment is often present in the blood in considerable quantity without occasioning much disturbance, but we cannot sjieak so positively with regard to the biliary acids. It has already been stated that these substances, when injected into the blood, have a peculiar action on the red corpuscles; but this has never been observed in jaundice. In that terrible affection of the liver called by Rokitansky acute yellow atrophy, in which the cells of the organ are completely destroyed, and the whole tissue deluged with yellow pigment, we are quite ignorant of the exciting cause of the convulsions and coma by which the disease commonly proves fatal. No chemical examination that we know of has yet been made of the blood in this disease; and all that can be said is, that it seems most probable that the poisonous matter which produces the cerebral symptoms is none of the constituents of the bile, since both of them, the pigment and the cholic acid^ have been found in the blood when none of the symptoms of cerebral disturbance were present. It may be, perhaps, a decom- position product of the organic biliary acids. However, though we cannot point out what the materies morbi in this case is, thereABNOEHAL CONSTITUENTS OF THE BLOOD. 37 is no doubt that the phenomena in this affection are owing to the ] presence of some abnormal matter circulating with the blood. In that state of system which Dr. Prout has distinguished by i the name of the oxalic acid diathesis, it has been thought that oxalic : acid, or some of its salts, must be present in the blood, and be the i exciting cause of the various symptoms. It has, however, never ; yet been detected in the blood, though it has been in urine and ! several other of the fluids of the body. It is, according to recent ’ views, chemically in close relation to urea, and its occurrence is i therefore not surprising. Morbid Poisons.—The above-mentioned substances, abnormally ] present in the blood, and producing disease, are tolerably well de- ; fined, but there are many others of whose nature we are ignorant, i and which quite escape our means of observation. The principal i of them are infectious principles of the so-called Exanthematous i diseases, including continued fevers; syphilis belongs to the same i category, and various cutaneous disorders, especially the squamous i and vesicular. Variola, and its modification vaccinia, are the only : instances in which we can at all pretend actually to exhibit the materies morbi, and to transfer it from one system to another; < even in these cases the visible fluid is but the vehicle of the poison, ifor that is aeriform, and capable of being received through the channel of the lungs. The venom of deadly snakes, perhaps, may i be an instance in which the matter inducing the morbid alterations in the blood of the bitten person is manifest and palpable ; but even : here we have no knowledge what the substance is which produces ithe septic effects. In the case, however, of deleterious gases, and of most poisons, the toxic agent is clearly known, and we can ! form some idea of its mode of operation. It would be quite beyond our province to attempt any detail of the various poisons and the effects they produce; we can only observe that they are all refer- able with tolerable accuracy to three heads, or to two of these combined, viz., (1) poisons which act as irritants, producing more or less irritation and inflammation of various organs; (2) poisons which act as sedatives, causing paralysis, more or less immediate and complete, of the nervous system; (3) septic poisons, which • seem to annihilate the vital power, and induce rapid putrefaction of all the organic fluids and solids. With regard to the action of poisons there are two fundamental ideas which it seems desirable briefly to refer to. One is, that when a minute portion of virus is introduced into the system, it appears to multiply itself immensely, as if it possessed the power of transforming healthy matter into its own noxious nature. Such a multiplication must take place when an unprotected person is i inoculated with the matter of variola, the minute quantity of virus : introduced reproduces similar properties in the contents of the numberless pustules which are formed all over the surface. The 1 same is doubtless the case with all infectious diseases, and with syphilis. The conception now mentioned applies more particularlyANAEMIA, SPANEMIA. 3S to certain irritant poisons; the second to those that are termed septic. When spongy platinum is placed in a mixture of oxygen and hydrogen gases, they quickly unite together and form water, the platinum itself undergoing no change. This is an example of what Berzelius named “ catalytic action; ” there are many similar known instances, .and it is very probable that actions of this kind are by no means infrequent in the animal system. The solution of the food in stomach digestion is probably, in part, dependent on a catalytic action, or one of a somewhat similar kind, in which the peculiar organic matter called pepsin disposes the alimentary ingesta to undergo solution in the gastric acids. A minute quantity of the change-inducing substance is sufficient to cause the action to com- mence, and so it appears a minute quantity of virus is sufficient to induce septic changes in the blood with which it is mingled. The history of cases of death from the bite of venomous reptiles, of the most malignant fevers, especially scarlatina, and of the effects of the matter of glanders, shows that the essential and primary action of these poisons is to lower extremely the vital powers, and induce putrefactive changes in the organic fluids. AltiEMIA, SPAtfiEMIA. There can be little doubt that by excessive haemorrhage, or exhausting discharges, the whole mass of circulating fluid in the vascular system can be considerably reduced; that is to say, the result .of such losses is not only to impoverish the quality (as we know it does), but to diminish the quantity of the whole mass of blood. The term anwmia, signifying absence or deficiency of blood, is therefore correct, though if it were not so commonly received and employed, one might wish to substitute the term oliyeemia. Spancemia is the name proposed by Dr. Franz Simon to express a deteriorated quality of the blood (oTravos, poor), it almost always accompanies the state of oligsemia, or anremia ; both may, we are inclined to think, exist not unfrequently as the sole condition itself, the blood being of normal quantity, but impaired quality. We will here recapitulate shortly the changes which have been before detailed in the several constituents of antemic and spansemic blood. (1.) The red corpuscles are remarkably dimi- nished, 127 being the average per 1,000, they have been known to sink as low as 27; they also appear to contain less hannatine, being somewhat paler than those of healthy blood. (2.) The amount of white corpuscles does not appear to be altered; in some of our examinations they have been found as numerous as in healthy blood. (3.) The fibrine is quite unaffected; it was never found below the normal mean; and in cases where inflammation of some organ was present its quantity was notably increased. (4.) The solids of the serum have not been found specially altered, (o.) The quantity of water is more or less increased in proportion to the39 ANAEMIA, SPAN7EMIA. diminution of the globules; in the case before mentioned, where the globules were only 27 per 1,000, the water was 886. The causes which produce anaemia and spamemia are—(1.) Losses of blood, whether natural or artificial, the red globules being thus diminished, their place is supplied in great degree only by the absorption of water. (2.) Profuse discharges of watery, mucous, or albuminous fluids, such as occur in aggravated leucorrhcea, diarrhoea, or in cases of cauliflower excrescence. In these it seems as’if the blood globules were melted down to supply the profuse drain, probably they perish, or are not reproduced fiom want of a proper nutrient fluid. (3.) Insufficient food; the effect of a greatly-improved diet increasing the amount of red corpuscles was very apparent in a case under our observation, in which iron had been previously administered, with some but not marked benefit, while on the improvement of the diet the amelioration was rapid. Too often, no doubt, this cause operates powerfully in inducing the anaemia so common among young females of the lower classes. (4.) Deprivation of fresh air and light; the effect of this can scarcely be over-estimated. Even the best food will not he converted into healthy blood if light and air are withheld, while a coarse and insufficient nutriment will not prevent a person from having a ruddy colour, if he he much in the open air. Of this we have frequent instances among our labouring population. (5.) An unhealthy condition of the blood, in consequence of which the existing blood globules are imperfectly nourished, and the development of new ones is hindered. Such is the cause of the anaemia in persons suffering from degeneration of the kidneys, from lead cachexia, the cancerous diathesis, perhaps the tuber- cular, and in some chlorotic cases. There can be no question that in many cases, as is well described by Dr. Williams, the ancemia is not the cause hut the result of the amenorrhcea. The suppression of the natural evacuation leaves the blood in an unpurified state, which is unfavourable to the development of healthy hsematine. In the same way rheumatism may prove a cause of anaemia, and in several of Andral’s cases the globules at the first bleeding were found not to be below the ordinary average. Mental anxiety may probably also he considered as a cause of this kind. Results of Ancemia.—Several instances have occurred in which the nutrition of the heart had suffered so much, and the organ become so debilitated, that sudden and fatal syncope was the result. The possibility of this should always be borne in mind, in treating a case of severe anaemia, and the patient should be enjoined to avoid sudden efforts, and to remain as quiet as possible until some degree of strength and tone is 'restored. It is a ques- tion of much interest, hut as yet we believe not determined, whether the increased action of the heart above described ever produces structural change. It would be thought likely that a weakened hollow organ, contracting repeatedly for a long time on the mass of blood poured into it, would be apt to yield some-40 AN7EMIA, 8PAN/EMA. what to the outward pressure or resistance of the fluid, and thus become dilated; but it does not seem to have been shoWri that this actually takes place. Some degree of anasarcous swelling of the feet and ankles is not uncommon. When this occurs we may take it as a, sign, on Andral’s authority, that the albumen of the serum is diminished. Asthenia may advance to such a degree that it proves fatal, by a gradual failure of the vital powers, like the sinking at the close of diseases of exhaustion. The impove- rishment of the blood may probably be the determining cause of the appearance of tuberculous or other cachectic diseases. The nutrition of some parts in the anaemic may be impaired to such an extent that ulcerations form spontaneously. The cornea would appear especially likely to suffer in this way from not being per- meated with vessels. Such instances of morbid action are very important to notice, as being free from complication, and exhibit- ing, therefore, more clearly the essential nature of a process. Ulceration in this case is clearly not produced by inflammation. It is rather interesting to remark that the most lowly organized, and the least essential of all the tissues, viz., the adipose^ suffers less from impaired nutrition in the anmmic state than any other. It is by no means uncommon to see persons, especially females, presenting a considerable amount of embonpoint, who are mani- festly very deficient in healthy blood. This is the more easily comprehensible, as the fat vesicles really seem to be scarcelv more than so many minute drops of exuded oil, included in homoge- neous films of protein material. Local or Partial Anaemia.—The foregoing history of ansemia and spansemia manifestly relates to it as a general condition. It seems very doubtful how far there can exist such a condition as partial ansemia, if we recognize a deficiency of red corpuscles as an essential feature of this state. Of course the supply of blood to a part may be defective, in consequence of various causes ; but this does not involve any alteration in the quality of the fluid trans- mitted to the part. However, using the term in the sense of merely deficient supply of blood, the consequences of such a state will be generally those of diminished nutrition, or, more properly, atrophy of the part, with more or less considerable impairment of its function. If the deprivation of blood be very great, mortifica- tion may be the result; this has occurred in some cases in which the main artery of a limb had been tied on account of aneurism, and the collateral circulation did not establish itself soon enough. Even in cases which have a more favourable issue, the immediate effect of cutting off the supply of blood is to occasion weakness, numbness, and reduction of (he temperature; the muscles and nerves are, in a great measure, paralyzed, and the heat-producing process fails with that of nutrition. When the aorta of an animal is tied, its lower extremities, after a time, become as paralyzed as if its spinal cord had been divided. The causes of local or partial ansemia may be, (1) tumours of various kinds, situated so as to41 HYPEE.EMIA. press upon and obstruct the main artery supplying the part ; j (2) disease, often atheromatous, of the coats of the vessel itself, ; leading to deposition of fibrinous eoagula, and consequent obstruc- :tion of the channel; (3) spontaneous coagulation of the blood in an artery; (4) blocking up of a vessel by fibrinous flakes transported •from a distance, perhaps from the valves of the heart; (5) there is i no doubt that during life ancemia of a part may be produced by • spasm of the muscular walls of the small arteries supplying it, e either dependent on nervous action or possibly spontaneous. Such . a condition will not be recognisable after death. It may be observed that it is difficult in many cases to say ; positively whether ansemia of an internal organ exists; we can- inot observe during healthy life what amount of blood, as indicated 1 by its colour, it contains, and the changes in the distribution of blond which may ensue during the last hours of life, and after i death, will greatly alter the natural appearance. HYPEREMIA. Hypersemia, the opposite condition to ancemia, implies, of course, i an excessive quantity of blood. The term is commonly applied to : accumulation of blood in a part, i.e., to local or partial excess ; •while plethora (n-X^dos, a multitude) is that which is used to ■ signify increase of the general mass. We will first consider [plethora, or general hypersemia, and afterwards partial. Plethora.—The characters of marked plethora are strongly ' expressed, and easily discernible. The face is rather full and tur- : gid, and presents a diffused redness, often of a slightly purplish ‘tint; this is especially observable in the lips. The conjunctivse are redder than natural, the expression of the eye sharp and ! ferrety. The pulse is full, and more or less strong. The tem- perature of the skin is inclined to be hot, and even in the most : remote parts it is fully maintained. There is a tendency to head- ache, and not unfrequently there is some degree of drowsiness and disinclination to exertion. Persons in this state have good appe- tites, and digest their food well, the secretions all seem to go on naturally, and organic or vegetative life is in full vigour. On account of the increase in the quantity of blood, it is manifest that complete oxygenation of it must be more difficult; hence, on any exertion the breath is apt to be short, and the action of the heart labouring; hence, also, as Eokitansky observes, the blood always presents a certain degree of venosity, as if never thoroughly arterialized. A distinction has been drawn between Two principal varieties of plethora, the sthenic and the asthe- nic. Generally, it may be said, that in the one the organic .life and tone of all parts are exalted, in the other proportionately depressed, while in both the mass of blood is in excess. Heat cof skin, frequency (not, however, great) of pulse, with fulnessHYPER/EMIA. 42 and hardness, keen sensibility, mental and bodily activity and energy, a tendency to gout, bilious attacks, and disease of sthenic type, characterize the first form of plethora. It is observed in the “young, the active, and those of sanguine temperament.” In asthenic plethora the skin is cool, the extremities apt to become cold; the pulse is large, but without resistance; it is often slow, sometimes irregular. The venosity of the blood is marked; the lips are often of a livid tint. The contractility and tone of the muscles is deficient, the spirits depressed, the mental and bodily activity diminished. It is most often seen in the aged, in those who are exhausted by excesses or previous disease, “or in whom the excreting organs act imperfectly.” The characters of the blood in sthenic plethora are—(1.) The increase and amplification of the entire mass. Of this we have no direct measure, but we may form a tolerable idea of the extent to which it takes place by observing the effect of blood-letting. As much as forty or fifty ounces may be drawn at once in some cases, without fainting being produced; and even this quantity has sometimes been exceeded. Dr. Watson mentions a case in which seventy-two ounces were withdrawn before the patient became faint. (2.) The red globules in plethoric blood are remarkably increased, while the fibrine rather inclines to be somewhat diminished, and the albumen of the serum undergoes little variation. The quantity of water being diminished in proportion to the increase of the red cor- puscles, it follows that the coagulum formed after bleeding will be large, and will be surrounded by but little serum. The mass of corpuscles, in proportion to fibrine is so great, that the latter can- not contract to the degree it ordinarily does; and hence a larger amount of serum is retained within the clot. In sthenic plethora the coagulum is firm, as well as large; in asthenic its cohesion is diminished. (3.) A tendency to deficient arterialization may also be mentioned as a character of plethoric blood; perhaps we may connect this with a deficient production of fibrine, which, as we before stated, may with much probability be regarded as an oxydation product. Causes of Plethora.—Among the causes of plethora, the first place, perhaps, is to be assigned to a special tendency innate in the system to form an undue quantity of blood; or, speaking more exactly, to a too rapid growth and multiplication of the red cor- puscles. This, as it requires, so it may produce an increased quantity of liquor sanguinis, according to the principle that the demand induces a supply. When the tendency to form blood is considerable it will manifest itself, even in spite of circumstances that oppose it; but a similar tendency, in much less degree, will produce a most highly plethoric state, if favoured by an ample supply of rich food, and a sedentary life. Indeed these may have the same effects, even supposing no predisposition to plethora at all to exist. It is worth remarking, however, that they will not produce this result in all cases. In many it would be rather43 IXYPEE^EMIA. dyspepsia, or some cutaneous disorder, or a bilious attack. Most of the circumstances that promote a robust state of health, with the exception of exercise, are favourable to plethora; and, on the other hand, such as depress the general vigour, or induce diseases of debility, prevent its development.* Asthenic plethora is pro- bably in most cases dependent upon an unhealthy state of the liquor sanguinis, occasioned by impaired action of some of the excretory glands, which itself may depend on some latent organic diseases of the same. Consequences of Plethora.—The consequences of plethora have already been in part alluded to. They are generally such as result from over-distension of the vascular system. On account of its proximity to the heart, its delicate structure, and the large supply of blood it receives, it is not surprising that the brain should suffer from this cause more than most other organs. Eupture of some of its thin-walled vessels may take place, or the blood be poured out from numerous capillaries, though it is doubtful whether these results ever occur except there be also some disease of the vessels. The great capacity of the vascular system of the liver will cause it to be enlarged by the increased distending force of the blood-mass, more, in proportion, than many other organs. This will be especially the case if dilated hyper- trophy of the right chambers exist, and the blood is thrown back on the venous side of the circulation. Again, in consequence of hepatic congestion, the tributaries of the portal vein will also be congested; and this seems more especially to affect the hpomor- rhoidal plexus of veins, which become distended into the little tumours, well known as “piles,” and often give rise to a salutary haemorrhage. Another haemorrhage, not unfrequent in plethoric persons, especially the young, is from the veins of the nose. This seems especially to give relief to cerebral congestion. Menorrhagia may also be dependent on, or at least greatly increased, by a plethoric state. The natural determination of blood at the cata- menial periods will of course be often attended with a greater- discharge, on account of the increased tension of the vascular system. Though we consider it at least doubtful whether the plethoric are more prone to inflammation than others, there is no doubt that when inflammation is set up in them it is more violent, and requires more aetive treatment. Dr. Copland states also that the severer forms of fever in the West Indies affect young and plethoric strangers, rather than older residents, the aged, and the weakly. It is not improbable that plethora may play some part in producing a varicose state of the veins, but * There is no doubt that the cessation of habitual discharges, or their arrest by art, especially when suddenly effected, and without any corresponding modification of the system, induces a dangerous plethora. This should Dever be forgotten, not only in treating persons who are manifestly of plethoric habit, but even those who seem and are really in a different state. It seems that the vascular system, after having been long insufficiently filled with blood, cannot bear the amount of distension immediately which in the state of health would only be natural to it.VARIETIES OP HYPEREMIA. 44 it is very doubtful whether aneurismal disease is ever occasioned by it. Local or Partial Hyperaemia.—We must remark with regard to local hyperaemia, as we did with respect to local anaemia, that it differs from general hyperaemia or plethora, not only in the less extent to which it exists, but in not involving any qualitative alteration of the blood. Local hyperaemia, in fact, is not exactly local plethora; it simply implies that too much blood is accu- mulated in the vessels of a part, without taking any count of the nature of this blood. Hyperaemia of a part is a phenomenon which naturally attracts attention, and has been considered and com- mented on from the earliest times. It exists in the most various conditions, from that of increased vital power of the functional activity of an organ to that of cessation of all action in it, its death, and decomposition. One of the best examples of a physio- logical and natural hyperaemia is afforded by the female breast during the period of lactation ; the vessels proceeding to it enlarge considerably, and it manifestly receives much more blood than at other times. So great is the flow of blood to the part that it not unfrequently happens, owing to a deficiency of secretory power, that the healthy hyperaemia becomes excessive, and a cause of inflammatory disease. The limits of physiological hyperaemia are pretty wide. It is often striking to observe how much more blood is contained in the vessels of a part that is actively employed than would be present there under ordinary circumstances. Indeed, there is much to lead one to the belief that it is not so much the amount of hyperaemia that determines the transition from the healthy to the morbid state, as the alteration of the vital condition of the tissues of the part. This view is borne out by the fact that artificial hyperaemia produced in one side of the head by section of the cervical sympathetic, an experiment which has been performed in numberless instances, does not, as a rule, or without some additional irritation, lead to actual inflammation or disease of the part. Some experimenters, as Schiff, have observed hyper- trophy affecting the hair and skin, but even this is a rare and occasional phenomenon. VARIETIES OF HYPERiEMIA. In endeavouring to study the various conditions under which hyperaemia occurs, we shall consider, first, hyperaemia with dimi- nished motion of the blood in the part; second, hyperaemia with increased motion, or, as they have been also called, Passive and Active Hypercemia. The first of these states may be designated congestion— the second, determination of blood. This arrangement has the advantage of classing together several conditions in which hyper- aemia is a prominent phenomenon; but it is not certain — especially as respects determination of blood—that it is founded45 varieties of hyperemia. on that which is the essential circumstance in these two con- jditions. This, at present, is not possible, from the imperfection of i our knowledge; but it may be well to bear in mind the above c caution’. Passive Hyperoemia, or Congestion.—Congestion—employing the tterm to signify excess of blood in a part with diminished motion— : affects chiefly the small veins of the part, and the capillaries that lcommunicate with them. Hence its colour is inclined to be of a i dark venous tint, unlike the more vivid blush of inflammatory iredness. The part often exhibits patchy, irregularly-distended ^vessels, which can be emptied by pressure, but gradually fill again. ]Its temperature is not much, if at all, increased; and the pain ifelt in it is rather aching or dull than acute. The degree of swell- iing varies according to the cause producing the congestion and (other circumstances; generally it is not very great. Congestion imay exist alone, but often there are present also some exudations, I the results either of it or of the condition which gave rise to it. Causes of Congestion.—The two principal causes which produce (congestion are—(1.) Obstructions of various kinds to the return (of blood through the veins. (2.) A relaxed and toneless state tof the capillaries and small veins. Of the first cause we have sa good example in tying up the arm for venesection; the (current of blood setting towards the heart being obstructed, and the artery continuing still to pour in fresh quantities, the t capillaries and all the veins up to the obstructed part become (distended with blood. This is marked by the red or purple (Colour of the part, and its swollen condition. The same effects 'will of course be produced in all instances where the veins of a any organ are obstructed; obstruction of the jugular veins [produces congestion of the brain, of the renal veins, congestion of the kidney, and so on. The modes in which the obstruc- tion may be produced are very various; to take the brain as an instance, the veins returning the blood from it may be pressed on by an enlarged thyroid, or by a mass of indurated . glands, or by an aneurismal tumour. Temporary cerebral con- -gestion may also be caused by a prolonged expiration, or by holding the breath, especially when muscular exertion is made at the same time. The arrest of the blood in the veins in these cases depends partly on the diminution of the capacity of the chest, which takes place during expiration, partly on the suspension of the respiratory movements, which cause the blood as well as the air to rush into their respective cavities within the thorax during .inspiration. Perhaps the most marked instance of the effects of (this arrest is manifested by severe cases of hooping-cough. The capacity of the chest is narrowed more and more by the'repeated expirations, and the blood not being drawn onwards, but thrown back, accumulates visibly in the face, which becomes turgid; in the eyes, where ecchymosis sometimes takes place ; and similarly, ;though we cannot see it, in the brain, where extravasation mayVARIETIES OF HYPEILEMIA. 46 also occur, or such congestion as produces an attack of convulsions. Obstructive valvular disease of the heart, throwing fhe blood back on the lungs, is the cause of the abiding dyspnoea which charac- terizes such complaints. The condition of the large hepatic veins, and of the infr. cava where it receives them, shows that the influence of inspiration must he felt as a powerful cause in pro- moting the circulation through the liver; when this, therefore, is impaired, as is the case in vesicular emphysema, or other diseases interfering with the respiratory movements, the liver will be con- gested, and the same will of course occur when in consequence of asphyxiating causes the blood does not pass freely through the lungs, but accumulates in the right side of the heart, and in the large veins. Now, in all such instances of congestion it may be remarked that there is no evidence of excitement of the part, if we except, at least, the occurrence of convulsions in attacks of paroxysmal cough; the temperature of the part is not raised, the functional activity is rather diminished than increased, and exuda- tions from the blood-vessels, if they occur, show no tendency to organization. Everything indicates that the hypersemia is merely the result of a mechanical cause,, and that there is no primary and special alteration of the vital endowments of the part. Relaxation of the Vessels.—The second cause of congestion, viz., atony of the vessels, may occur either primarily or secondarily. In adynamic fevers, in states of extreme debility, and perhaps in some persons whose tonicity is naturally defective, the vessels of a part become distended with blood, without any obstruction existing in the veins which convey their blood away, or without any previous inflammation or undue excitement having exhausted their natural contractility. The whole surface of the body, in some fevers of very low type, is covered with patches of con- gested vessels, and. it is to be noticed that these are chiefly seated in the under parts, the blood gravitating downwanls, and accumulating in this situation. Hence we derive a hint for a precaution well worth observing in continued fever, viz., to alter the position of the patient occasionally, and not to allow the blood to gravitate day after day to the posterior parts of the lungs, which in consequence are especially prone to engorge- ment and hepatization. Primary atony of the vessels of the choroid coat of the eye seems not unirequently to occur, and to be the cause of the muscse volitantes to which the dyspeptic and others are subject. The vessels of the uterus in passive menorrhagia, and those of the vagina in non-inflammatory leucorrhoea, are not un- frequently affected by primary atonic- congestion. It is, however, much more common that atony of the vessels occurs secondarily in consequence of some previous excitement or inflammation. This in fact is almost always the case in persons of feeble power, when they are attacked by inflammation ; when the disease is subdued there still remains behind this congested state of the overstrained vessels, which being naturally of weak tonicity, are unable toVARIETIES OF HYPEREMIA. 47 • resume readily their proper calibre. This condition of atonic con- , gestion is often seen in the conjunctiva after it has suffered an ■ attack of acute inflammation; and we can scarce have a more ■ valuable lesson than the observation of such cases, and of the icedentia and juvantia offered us. A case of this kind is related in 'Mr. Tyrrell’s work, on “Diseases of the Bye,” vol. i. page 24, ■ which from the first time we read it never passed from our mind ; i and often has the valuable instruction it conveyed been the means i of directing us to successful treatment. Again, besides actual i inflammation over-use of a part may occasion relaxation and i congestion of its vessels. Of this we have an instance in the i congestion of the choroid, which is so common in those who i exert their eyes very much upon minute objects. Also in the i extravasations met with in. fatal cases of tetanus and chorea, in i the brain and spinal cord, of which the rationale seems to he that • the exhausted state of the nervous tissue has involved the minute ■ vessels, and destroyed their retentive power. Additional Causes of Congestion.—The influence of cold in pro- ducing congestions of internal organs cannot he doubted. To this we must ascribe, in part, the prevalence of chest affections during the colder part of the year, the blood being repelled inward from the surface by the constringing effect of the cold upon the vessels. The same cause also must he the chief agent in occasioning attacks of apoplexy, which have been observed to be greatly more fre- quent during a very cold season than during a mild one. The effect of the malarious poison in producing congestions of the internal organs is still more potent than that of cold. With every paroxysm the liver and spleen become greatly distended during the cold stage; and to such an extent may this take place that the latter organ, extensible as it is, has been ruptured, and fatal hiemorrhage ensued. Posture is a very efficient cause in producing congestion. It has already been alluded to, when instancing the pulmonary congestions that occur in fever; hut the most marked examples of its effects are seen in the lower limbs. Here the returning venous current has to overcome the force of gravity, and though while the vessels maintain their tonicity, and the valves of the veins are efficient, this retarding force does not pro- duce any effect, yet when the conditions are altered it becomes speedily manifest. Persons of feeble constitution, who are obliged to remain for the greater part of their time in an upright position, labouring hard, and living poorly, are exceedingly liable to a con- gested, thickened, and indurated state of the integuments of the lower part of the legs and feet. The veins proceeding from these parts—and especially the large superficial veins of the limb—are seen tortuous, enlarged, distended, and varicose. They are evidently gorged with slowly-moving blood, the column of which, greatly enlarged in bulk, has much more difficulty in resisting the force of gravity than in the natural state. Such congestions pro- ceed very soon to ulceration, which is apt to assume a sloughingVABIETIES OF HYPEBASMIA. 48 foim, and which can only be healed by means which bring about ahealthy circulation. These are, of course, directed to take on the force of gravity by the recumbent posture, to empty the distended vessels, and to supply, by external equable pressure, the defective tonicity of their walls. It may, perhaps, be ques- tioned whether the class of congestions from this cause should not have been included under those arising from venous obstruction, as the condition of the vein itself is such as to create an obstruc- tion to its own current. Withdrawal of nervous influence from a part is sometimes the cause of congestion taking place in it. Mr, Simon records a case in which, after the ulnar nerve had been torn across at the inner condyle, the two inner fingers of the hand of the same side ‘1 had become swollen and livid with vascular injection.” It is not, however, to be concluded that the walls of the vessels lose their tonicity whenever the nerves of a part are unable to discharge their functions, or that this is actually dependent on nervous influence. No doubt it is the special endowment of the vascular membranes, and only capable of being affected by the action of the nerves, as well as by direct stimulus. The effect of an atonic state of the walls of the vessels is well illustrated by an experiment performed by Dr. Williams ; he adapted to a syringe a tube with two arms, one of which was connected with a metal tube, and the other with a portion of dog’s intestine, of the same length as the metal tube; but, when distended, double its diameter. Water was now thrown in by the syringe, and the quantity discharged from the open ends of each of the two tubes estimated. The metal tube in the same time yielded three times more liquid than the intestine. Now a vessel, whose wall is possessed of a proper degree of contractility, may be compared to the metal tube. The force of the heart com- municated by the fluid to its walls is not lost, but reacts again immediately upon the fluid, and drives it onward. The vessel with atonic flaccid walls resembles the intestine, which yielded to the distending force of the column of fluid, and, from not reacting upon it, allowed a great part of the force to be lost as an impelling influence. Consequences of Congestion.—The effects of congestion have already been partially noticed. They have reference mainly to two circumstances—one the impairment of the vital actions of the part, the other the effusion from the overloaded vessels of watery, albuminous, or mucous fluids. When the arm is tied up for venesection a sensation of numbness, weakness, and chilliness is felt after a time, showing that the sensibility and contractility of the limb are impaired by the congestion which has taken place. In the hepatic and renal congestions, which often are produced by obstructive disease of the heart, the secre- tion of bile and of urine is commonly diminished, or morbidly affected. Cerebral congestion interferes materially with the free exercise of the functions of which the brain is the instrument.CONSEQUENCES OF CONGESTION. 49 .This impairment of vital (i.e. special) power depends partly on the increased quantity of blood in the part, which, bein°- .-greater than is proportionate to its functional activity, overloads ;.ana oppresses it. But a still more powerful, and quite unques- tionable, cause of vital depression in a congested part, is afforded jy the altered condition of the blood itself, which, semi-stagnatin^ v:.n the capillaries and veins, become more venous than it shoulcf : md otherwise unfit for the healthy nutrition of the tissues The Ploughing ulcers which form in the congested and thickened inte- [T^uments of the lower limbs, when the veins are enlarged and vraricose, are a striking instance of the lowered condition of the (vitality of those textures. Long-continued congestion of the l iver, from disease of the heart, produces a very remarkable effect an the parenchymal cells. They become very greatly loaded with U.! V1matt0r (w uch does not appear to be true biliary, but :;-ather bde pigment); m extreme cases, the majority become atro- phied and are reduced to a mere granular detritus, while the inter- ellular capillaries become enlarged. These changes afford some explanation why the secretion of bile is interfered with, and also *vhy jaundice occurs. su The effusions that take place from congested parts are certainly the most prominent phenomena of the condition. They will be most abundant, as a general rule, when the congestion depends in venous obstruction; so that while fresh blood is being poured eX1Lcan be foYnd, for i1:> ex°ept that which the .-exudation affords. They may also be extremely abundant in some mt tbp t f n0t/?uy-the t°m.city of the vessels is entirely lost, mt the texture of their walls is altered, so that they no longer ?hPo°fb,uiny °!uCe t0 thf eSCaPe of ttair contents, but allow them me ca^e Fr iL\° transude,with great facility. Such is, no doubt, ae case in instances of bronchorrhoea, chronic diarrhoea and meorrheea, where large quantities of fluid are continually passim-- •vess9ls'but wher'' -»obsC”; hai-e f comiiaensprate to account for the dis- 1 i of remedies in these cases shows that the - scharge is dependent on the cause we have mentioned Under “;admimstratl0ri f turpentine or astringents the vessels regain ieir tone, and no longer pour out their contents. Though°the on m HUch states have originated in cfnges- on, yet as this is removed by the effusion while the atom- imains, they come at last to be rather instances of passive flux5 , Chr0mc alcites- in which the smaller branches the portal vein may be so obstructed that no fluid can mss nrough them, presents an exquisite instance of effusion depend -0 upon venous obstruction. The fluid effused in the neritoneU ‘ ;CdVaar a g00ddaalbchlefly as t0 tho relative proportions of y-atei- iid albumen which it contains. Not only does a Z Z7^72UJees ^ibriu6n0t -fluently aceZpaSes it arge nakj masses of fibrinous coagula are not uncommonly E50 CONSEQUENCES OF CONGESTION. found in the peritoneal cavity after death, in cases of ascites, and the same are also seen occasionally in the fluid evacuated by para- centesis. We have also seen blood-globules so uniformly dispersed through the fluid that there could be no doubt that they had escaped from the congested sub-serous capillaries, and were not accidentally mingled with the effusion. The same products of con- gestion also occur in the urine when obstructive disease of the heart throws back the blood on the renal veins. The secretion is albuminous, contains fibrinous casts of the tubes and blood- globules. Decided haemorrhage may also occur, as the result of extreme congestion, which may be dependent either upon venous obstruction or upon an atonic state of the vessels. Mehena, or haemorrhage from the bowels, is an instance of the first, passive menorrhagia and epistaxis of the latter. . _ Textural Changes resulting from Congestion.—It is a remarkable and instructive fact that congestion of parts never seems in the end to occasion hypertrophy; or, if this should appear to have taken place, closer examination proves that rather the reverse is the case; that the hypertrophy is what Rokitansky calls unreal. Enlargement of organs may indeed be a consequence of venous congestion, if it has not continued long enough seriously to inter- fere with their nutrition ; and is especially seen in very vascular parts, where the mere dilatation of capillaries and veins is doubtless one of the main causes of enlargement. The spleen, for instance, is usually found enlarged in cases of cirrhosis of the liver, where the portal vein is obstructed; and obstructive disease of the heart produces at a certain stage of the disease enlargement of the liver and kidneys. In the latter oases, however, certainly, and probably in the first the enlargement is only temporary, and the impaired nutrition which results from an inadequate supply of proper blood leads to a condition of atrophy, the external apP^* ance of which will vary according to the organ involved. In the skin there will be ulceration; in solid organs, such as the liver and kidney, there will be what is called fibroid degeneration, or better fibroid substitution; that is to say, a replacement of the proper secreting structure by a certain form of connective tissue. so that the organ will be in most cases actually smaller; ai ail events wasted, so far as its proper structure is concerned. We have already pointed out the impairment of vital power which congestion occasions, and the causes inducing it, which seem to afford an adequate explanation of the non-tendency to grotv development which is observed both m the affected part itself and in its interstitial effusions. The following sentence from Mr. Simon’s lecture recognizes and similarly explains t e ^ame a ‘ “ It is true that much blood is contained m the affected issu > it is blood that has insufficient means of renewing itsel , an its long detention in the part it acquires in an extreme egree, J character of venous blood. Thus, as regards mere bu - o oo , the part is over-supplied, but, in respect of the quality of b oo ,ACTIVE HYPERJEMIA—DETERMINATION OF BLOOD. 51 may be said to suffer what is equivalent to anaemia 1 think it not improbable that the same fact may contribute to explain the continued non-development of those effusions which arise from passive hypersemia.” It thus appears that atrophy, rather than hypertrophy, is likely to be the result of abiding con- gestion of any part. Remote Consequences of Congestion,.—The effects of congestion of a part, especially if it be one of some magnitude, may not be 1 confined to the part itself, but may affect the system generally. This appears in two respects, one being a degree of faintness aud i depression (v. Junod’s boot), occasioned by the withdrawal of a i considerable quantity of blood from active circulation ; the other, i an injurious influence exercised on the whole blood-mass by the (deteriorated portion, which slowly and partially returns into it 1 aguin from the seat of congestion. It is clear that an excess of 1 blood poured into one part, and detained there, must leave others .imperfectly supplied; the local hypersemia, according to its extent, ! produces a degree of general anaemia. That blood which has lon~ '.been stagnant in a part must be in an unhealthy state is very com- jprehensible, ancl that, by its mingling with the general mass of tblood, deterioration of the same will be induced, and therewith a (cachectic state. ACTIVE HYPERyEMIA—DETERMINATION OF BLOOD. In this the second variety of local hypersemia, the phenomena convey the idea of mcreased activity and vigour in the vital rprocess. The flow of blood to the part is increased; the capillaries ^without being greatly distended, are well filled, and the blood ■which ^ they contain having an arterial rather than a venous character gives a red flush to> the part, very different from the duller tint of congestion. In consequence of the fullness of the (capillaries, and perhaps also of some increased exudation, there •is some turgescence of the part33 and its temperature is elevated The arteries aiso become eniarged, to admit the increased quantity of blood, and pulsate with more than ordinary force. This enlanre- rnent becomes permanent when the hypertemia is a permanent and natural state. The veins also enlarge, but are not distended •as m congestion. The sensibility of the part is commonly increased’ ts function may be, or may not, aud the same is true of its growth’ Distinction of Healthy and Morbid Hyperemia.—'Bus brines us u the inquiry whether active hypersemia may not be distinguished nto two forms, one to be regarded as healthy, associated with increased vital power and capacity for action; the other morbid Attending upon and promoting unnatural action, resulting in disease and decay There are many well-known and oft-quoted ■xamples of healthy hyperaemia, such as the female breasts .luring gestation anil lactation, the uterus during the period of52 ACTIVE HYPERA3MIA—DETERMINATION OF BLOOD. pregnancy, the gums during dentition, the mucous membrane of the stomach while the secretion of gastric juice is going on, and, generally, it may he said, every organ during the time of increased activity and employment. Now, we think it may be affirmed, that, in the above instances, the most important and characteristic pheno- menon is the increased functional energy and vigour of the hypersemic part; this we believe to be the main and essential circumstance of which the increased blood-flow is a sequel. Nay, there are manv instances, especially among secretory organs, in which the great increase of the product proves that a corresponding increase of the supply of blood must have taken place ; a true hypersemia, in one sense, exists, but it is not apparent, because of the active transformation which is going on. How marked is the difference between this condition and congestion! In the one, functional activity and molecular change at its height, with vascular injection more or less considerable, but not varying in direct, rather in inverse ratio to it; in the other, vascular injection extreme, while the functional activity is extremely depressed. Now, in proportion as active hyperaemia departs from the physiological condition, and becomes morbid—that is to say, approaches towards inflammation —in the same degree does the vital energy and activity of the part appear to be lowered, and the hypersemia becomes the more marked phenomenon. Thus a diuretic drug shall be administered to two individuals; in the one the flow of urine shall be considerably augmented, the vital power of the kidney predominating over the hypersemia excited; in the other, the flow of urine shall be diminished, and the secretion become bloody and albuminous, evidencing the predominance of the hypersemia over the vital power. So, too, in fever. The skin, at one time, shall be dry and burning and red, with vascular injection, but its vital power of secretion and exhalation is in abeyance. But a change comes, the tissue regains its functions, and pours out a healthy moisture on the surface; and now the hypersemia, though it may con- tinue in some degree, is no longer predominant. How different must be the condition of the gastiic mucous membrane m the hypersemia excited by a few grains of ginger, and that pro- duced by a few grains of arsenic! No doubt the one form of active hypersemia may pass into the other. The quantity of blood which a healthy tissue was able to employ, and which was requisite for the unusually vigorous discharge of its function, may become too much for the same tissue when debilitated by over-use. A brain ministering to an active mind requires and recen es a greatei supply of blood than that of the waterman “who rows along thinking of nothing at all.” So long as the cerebral energy is not over-tasked, the hypersemia will tend to no injurious result, but will only supply the necessary pabulum for the material changes connected with thought. When, however, the time arm es that the delieate organ needs repose, then if the strain be con- tinued, and the hypersemia kept up, it is manifest that a moibid53 ACTIVE HYPER.EMIA—DETERMINATION OE BLOOD. ■ state will soon supervene, in which the hypercemia may yet further i increase, and the natural energy be still more diminished, till, I together with symptoms of disordered and erring action, m flam- i mation, or some other result of hypersemia occurs. The pheno- imena we have alluded to are of every-day occurrence. No doubt (can exist about their reality, though different opinions may be i entertained as to how they should be interpreted. We shall im- i mediately proceed to consider more closely the different views that 1 have been advanced, but we would ask especial attention to this j point which we have dwelt on, viz., that in one form of active hyperremia the vigour of the tissues for vital action is increased, ■ while, in the other, it is diminished. In the one the hypersemia : supplies a want, in the other imposes a burden. Conditions of Normal Circulation.—Now, before we enter on the (consideration of the mode in which active hypersemia is brought about, let us refer shortly to one or two physiological points, ’ which must form the very basis of all our attempts at explana- t tion of the phenomena. All tissues may be regarded as consisting i of vessels, nerves, and the proper elements of the tissue. The 'vessels, it is true, may be more or less closely woven up with tthe tissue, or even may not actually penetrate it, but still they -are essential. The nerves convey an influence which may affect tthe blood-vessels or the tissue. The elements of the tissue, be Ithey cells, or originally derived from cells, have certain special < endowments, which, when called into action, increase the flow of I blood to the part; at least this seems only another form of ’ putting the undoubted fact—that exercise of a part causes more I blood to flow thither. The blood-vessels consist of arteries, capillaries, and veins. The arteries have a truly contractile coat, ■ which, under some kinds of stimulation, may even produce obli- ' teration of the channel. This contractile coat is composed of organic muscular fibre. It possesses, so far as we know, no other property than that of contracting. There is not the least reason to suppose that it has any power of active dilatation. * The capillaries have a simple, homogeneous, membranous wall, in contact with the tissue proper of the parts. It does not appear that this possesses any contractility. It does, however, possess a retentive power, which varies remarkably in different organs compare, for instance, the renal, the pulmonary, and the muscular capillaries—and is capable of being greatly impaired by morbid influences/ The contractility of the veins has generally been con- • sidered much more doubtful than that of the arteries. Weber did not find them respond to the stimulus of cold as the arteries did. . Air. "Wharton Jones, admitting that they do undergo some variation iin size, says that the contraction or dilatation is very small in comparison with that which the arteries undergo. Professor .Paget’s observation seems conclusive as the contraction of both Drs. Pettigrew and Schiff contend, however, for the affirmative.54 ACTIVE HYPER/EMIA—DETERMINATION OF BLOOD. veins and arteries under a mechanical stimulus. He says, “If, as one is watching the movement of blood in a companion-artery and vein, the point of a line needle be drawn across them three or four times, without apparently injuring them, or the membrane over them, they will both presently gradually contract and close ; then after holding themselves in the contracted state for a few minutes, they will begin again to open, and, gradually dilating, will acquire a larger size than they had before Fra. 3. the stimulus was applied.” It must be noticed that Mr. Paget’s observation has reference to the wing of the bat, while Mr. Whar- ton Jones’ conclusion has been formed from examination of the web of the frog. The former, as a warm-blooded mammal, is no doubt a better representative of man than the reptile. Phenomena of Irritation.—What we can see, by the microscope, in parts that are the seat of ac- tive hypersemia, in consequence of the application of a stimulus, is by the very accordant testi- mony of the best observers as follows : — When a moderate irritant, such as tincture of cap- sicum, or a drop of some essential oil, is applied to a transparent part the arteries speedily dilate, and a rapid flow of blood through them ensues. This seems to tell on the capillaries and veins, which become dilated also, so that vessels, which before scarcely admitted blood globules, are now traversed by great numbers. Sometimes the dilatation seems to be preceded by constriction of the artery; but this does not constantly occur ; and when it does is of very brief duration. It has been often said that the flow of blood was accelerated in arteries that were contracted; but the reverse seems rather to be the truth. It is the dilatation of an artery that is accom- panied by greater rapidity of the current, though it cannot be the cause of it. Professor Paget writes, “ As the vessels are con- tracting the blood flows in them more slowly, or begins to oscillate; nay, sometimes, even before the vessels begin visibly to contract, one may observe that the blood moves more slowly in them, as if this were the first effect of the stimulus. Nor am I sure that I have ever seen (what is commonly described) the acceleration of the flow of blood in the contracting vessels. Such an acceleration, however, is manifest, as the vessels re-open ; and as they dilate, so apparently in the same proportion does the Contracted artery, from Wharton Jones’ Essay.ACTIVE HYPER2EMIA—DETERMINATION' OF BLOOD. 00 flow of blood through them become more free, till at length it is jquite manifest that they are traversed by both fuller and more rrapid streams than passed through them before the stimulus was (applied.” Mr. Wharton Jones’ observation is to the same effect: ■“In one case,” he says, “the arteries of the web were more or Jess constricted, the circulation sluggish, the blood in the capilla- rries here and there stagnant. A drop of the solution of sulphate jof copper with vin. opii was applied, whereupon the arteries im- nmediately became dilated, and the circulation brisk.” Dr. Williams, .in his work, so often referred to, had previously maintained and eclearly illustrated the same view. It may therefore be considered ^established that in active hypersemia one principal feature is ddilatation of the arteries; while in passive hyperaemia the veins aand the capillaries opening into them are dilated, and the arteries neither are not enlarged, or are constricted. Neuropathological Theory.—Now, it may very naturally be asked, iin what way does the stimulus applied bring about dilatation of tthe arteries? All that we know of the habits of contractile ttissues leads us to believe that they can only respond to a stimulus bby exerting their contracting power, and there is no known in- stance of active elongation. We know indeed, from the researches on the influence of nerves over vessels, which started with Claude IBemard, that division of the sympathetic branch supplying any vvessel, produces a paralysis of the vascular muscles which per- mits their easier dilatation, and hence a more rapid flow of blood tto the part; and Bernard himself also believes in an active (dilatation of the vessels as a consequence of a peculiar stimu- lation of the vasomotor nerves, though this is not generally (accepted. It has also been shown that the same effects on the (vessels may be produced by reflex nervous action, a fact very ■important for our present purpose. The theory was long ago proposed that the stimulus, acting on the sensory nerves of the part, excited in them a state, which, being communicated to the vasomotor centre, was reflected on the vascular nerves, occasion- ing them to become paralyzed, and therewith the contractile coat of the vessels also. This theory (the neuro-pathological) has lately received much support from the physiological experiments of [Ludwig and others, and is accepted without hesitation by Dr. Burdon Sanderson.* When under ordinary circumstances a •stimulus applied to a part produces increased activity of the capillary circulation, it is impossible to distinguish between the effects of irritation of the tissues themselves and irritation applied 'to the extremities of the sensory nerves. If, however, a sensory nerve trunk be divided, and the central portion irritated by feeble induced currents of electricity, the same phenomena of active hhyperfemia are observed. The congestion is similar to that pro- duced by section of the sympathetic, but more intense, and is • Holmes’s “ System of Surgery,vol. v.: article “ Inflammation,” p. 729.56 ACTIVE HYPEBJEJHA—DETERMINATION OF BLOOD. accompanied by obvious dilatation of the arteries, not always preceded by contraction.* General acceleration of the flow of blood through the capillaries has also been produced by the excitation in the same manner of a special nerve in the rabbit, called by Cyon and Ludwig the depressor—a branch of the vagus. All these effects appear to be reflex, and the action to pass through a part of the central nervous system, the medulla oblongata. According to the most recent researches, those of Owsjannikow,.this “ vascmotor centre ” is in the rabbit situated immediately below the corpora quadrigemina, and above the calamus scriptorius.t The path taken by the reflected nervous stimulus must be through the sympathetic to the vasomotor nerves; and this consideration lessens the force of certain objections to this theory. For instance, it appears a strong prima facie objection that, as we know, a paralyzed limb can be the seat of active hypersetnia, and that, as Mr. Simon has shown, “the absence of a spinal cord, or the division of all the roots of the nerves, or the section of the lumbar and sciatic plexus, will make little or no difference to the certainty with which an irritant, applied to the web of a frog's foot, will quicken the circulation there, and subsequently lead to its retard- ation and arrest.” It is impossible to deny that the neuro-pathological theory, in its present form, offers an adequate explanation of the phenomena of hypersemia from irritation; but it is by no means proved that an external stimulus always acts in this indirect manner. Primary Changes in the Tissues.—We are accordingly led to seek for an explanation in the direct action of stimuli on the elements of the tissues, without the intervention of nerves and muscles; the latter being, on this supposition, only secondarily affected, in consequence of the molecular changes which take place in the elements. We will therefore briefly put together the arguments which appear to us conclusive, that what we have called the “ nutrition force,” and Dr. Carpenter the “ capillary,” does really exist, and is concerned in producing the state of active hypereemia. (1). When a part is not employed (a limb, for instance) for some time, it wastes and atrophies. Its blood- vessels become smaller, and its temperature falls. Manifestly the circulation of blood through it is diminished. (2). When a part (as a limb^ is actively employed, it enlarges, its temperature is increased, its blood-vessels are more developed, and the quantity of blood passing through it is evidently greater. (3). When a gland is excited to increased action, as the mamma of the female, the flow of blood to it is increased, and the vessels become en- larged. (4). In plants it has been observed, among other instances of the influence of local stimuli, that a branch of a tree, growing * Lov£n, “ Ludwig’s Arbeiten n.us der Physiologischen Anstalt zu Leipzig,” 1S66 ; pp. 1 to 26. Cyon and Ludwig, i6id., pp. 128 to 149. + Berichte der K. Such?, Gesellschaft der Wissenscliaften. Math. Phys. Clas?e. May 6th, 1871.ACTIVE HYPERiEMIA—DETERMINATION OF BLOOD. 57 in the open air, which is brought into the atmosphere of a hot- house, will vegetate during the winter, and draw up sap through the stems and roots, while the other branches remain in their ordinary state. (5). In many of the lower invertebrata, the move- ment of the nutrient fluid seems to be evidently independent of the action of a heart on the vessels. (6). Dr. Houston’s case of an acardiac foetus has proved, in the judgment of those most com- petent to decide,* “ that a foetus may grow to a considerable size, and have its various tissues well developed, without any connection with the twin fcetus, by means exclusively of a circulation of its own, of which a heart forms no portion, or upon which it can exercise but a very remote influence.” (7). Though the phenomenon of blushing, and some other local determinations of blood, may be accounted for by an alteration taking place in the calibre of the blood-vessels, their channels being widened, and more blood ad- mitted, yet that of hypersemia, excited by a local stimulus, appears to us quite impossible to explain in such a way. We would refer more particularly to the interesting experiment, recorded by Mr. Simon (p. 93 of his “ Lectures on Pathology ”), in which hypersemia was induced by the local application of a stimulus to a part which had lost all trace of sensibility. This appears to us to afford con- clusive proof, that neither the action of the heart, nor that of the blood-vessels, but only the nutritive force, heightened by the action of the stimulus, could have produced the local erythema. This justly eminent authority adds, “Altogether we may, I think, take it as an established certainty, that the first change which occurs in an inflamed or overgrowing part, and which leads to its becoming loaded with blood, is not a reflex change operated through the nerves, but is a direct change, operated by the living molecular structure of the part on the blood which traverses it, or on the vessels which convey that blood.” He compares it to “ a vortex, established in the place of the irritant, causing all the adjoining streamlets of blood to converge in swifter channels towards it.” Professor Paget says, “ I think I can be quite sure that the velocity of the stream, in any vessel of an inflamed part, is not determined by the diminution or enlargement of the channel. Without change of size, the stream may be seen decreasing from extreme velocity to complete stagnation. On what the alteration of movement of the blood in such a case depends, I cannot tell; but we have facts enough to justify such an hypothesis as that there may be some mutual relation between the blood and its vessels, on the parts around them, which,_ being natural, permits the most easy transit of the blood, but, being disturbed, increases the hindrances to its passage.” Other forms of Active Eypercemia.—The foregoing remarks apply chiefly to active hypermmia resulting from the application of a local stimulus. There are, however, other forms in which the Todd and Bowman, Phys. Anat. vol. ii. p. 372,ACTIVE HYPEE.35MIA—DETEEMINATION OF BLOOD. o8 starting-point of the change has to he sought away from the part affected. We must first, however, notice simple removal of ■pres- sure as an immediate and certain cause of active hypersemia. One instance of this is the removal of atmospheric pressure from the skin, in the operation of cupping. This acts, doubtless, simply by diminishing resistance to the passage of the blood, the motive force remaining the same. Nervous influences may also dimi- nish resistance by lowering the tension of the arterial muscles. Section of the sympathetic, as has been shown by innumerable experiments, produces an immediate relaxation of the vascular walls and dilatation of their channels. Section of other nerves of the cerebro-spmal system has the same effect, probably because they contain fibres (vasomotor) derived from the sympathetic. This has been seen, for instance, after injury or experimental division of the ulnar, or of the fifth cranial nerve; that is to say, both in sensori-motor, or mixed, and in purely sensory nerves. Another important form of local hypersemia is compensatory or collateral hypersemia. W11on an arterial branch is blocked up. the parts supplied by it are at first anaemic, from diminished supply of blood; but the collateral circulation, by means of anas- tomosing branches, soon becomes established. Small branches in the surrounding parts become dilated to a large size, capillaries become as large as arteries, and thus the parts surrounding the region immediately supplied by the obstructed arterial branch become hypersemic. But the process may go farther still, and, as shown by Cohnheim, in consequence of regurgitation from the veins, the precise territory supplied by the obstructed arterial branch may become hypereemic. This fact, which appears para- doxical, has now been clearly established by the experiments of Cohn, Feltz, Savory, Cohnheim, and others, as regards small arterial branches or capillaries. In the obstruction of large arteries, such as those of the limbs, it is not seen, the collateral circulation being inadequate. As, however, the blood remains stagnant, and is or becomes venous in character, the active hyper- emia is really passive hypersemia, or congestion, and leads to other changes. Relations between the Blood and the Tissues.—While admitting the reality of all these causes, we must regard it as far too exclusive and onesided a view to consider only the blood and the vessels as the agents concerned in hypersemia, the common initi- atory step of inflammation, and to deny to the essential elements of the part any share in the production of a state by which they are so importantly affected. We therefore recognize an increased attraction of the blood towards the part which is stimulated, as one cause of active hypersemia, aud the principal, and we regard the dilatation of the arteries as a secondary, but not unimportant. But the influence which the tissues exert on the circulation, in virtue of their “nutritive power,” we may be sure is not only an attraction which may be increased or diminished, but also an59 EFFECTS OF ACTIVE HYPEK/EHIA. alteration which the attracted blood undergoes, and, haying under- gone, is either repelled or pushed on by the advancing current. We may illustrate this motive influence by the example of light bodies, when acted on by electricity. Two pith balls, one of which is in a negative and the other in a positive state, will attract each other strongly; but as soon as they both become negative or positive, they forcibly repel each other. Some similar relation must subsist between the blood and the tissues. The arterial blood is heterogeneous to the tissue, and is attracted to it. Having become venous, it is no longer so, and it ceases to be attracted, perhaps even is repelled. Now, we may conceive the attractive force to persist, or even to be exalted, while the change impressed in nutrition may be greatly lessened. Blood will then accumulate in the part, from not having undergone that vital change which it should, and the part will be hyperBemic. This would be the case in active hyperseroia of a morbid kind—in that which forms the first stage of common inflammation, in which the vital endowments of the part are lowered, and its functional activity lessened. In healthy hypersemia, on the other hand, the attractive and the changing influences are both increased. The blood does not accumulate, but only ministers adequately to the increased functional activity of the part. EFFECTS OF ACTIVE HYPERiEMIA. These, as already intimated, are different in the healthy and morbid varieties. In the first, the growth of the part, if the hypersemia continue long enough, is increased, it undergoes a true hypertrophy. Of this we have the best examples in the mus- cular tissue. At the same time, the function is more vigorously exercised; it has more capability for, and it performs more work. Of this the brain, under the influence of moderate determination of blood—such as some of our great orators used to induce by pretty free libations of wine—is a good example. Similar in- stances among glandular organs we have already noticed. That of the ovaries and uterus, at the catamenial periods, is very remarkable, and is evidently connected with the reproductive nisus, which manifests itself especially at these epochs. There seems no ground whatever to regard it as originated by nervous influence, but rather as the result of a mode of growth and nutrient action peculiar to these organs. The discharge of the ovarian ovum, and the catamenial flow, are the results of this hypersemia, but it is itself excited by the spontaneous activity of the structures. Thus curiously, as we see also in many other instances, are linked together the increased action of an organ and the increase of its supply of blood; in the healthy state, the former usually takes the initiative, and produces the latter, but is itself reacted on by it, increased, and carried on.EFFECTS OF ACTIVE HYPEBA3MIA. 60 But it is rather with morbid hypersemia that we are concerned as pathologists. This is, in a very groat number of instances, the commencement of inflammation; but we shall not speak of in- flammation as one of its results, hut consider it separately. The effects of morbid hypersemia are generally unnatural excitement, or oppression of an organ. The part contains more blood than it is able to manage, its healthy play is interfered with, and it is either goaded into a false, aimless, and exhausting activity, or is actually oppressed and enfeebled directly. The chief features of the condition are, probably, increased attraction of blood to the part, with diminished vital change, and undue dilatation of the arteries leading to it. If the brain he the seat of determination of blood, in a morbid sense, there will be throbbing of the carotids, and their superficial branches, restlessness, more or less intolerance of light and sound, diminution of the power of attention and application, dreamy and disturbed sleep, irritability of temper, attacks of giddiness, &c. The face and eyes are apt to he flushed, and the feet cold. The uneasy sensations about the head are increased by stooping, or the recumbent posture. The kidney, in cases of acute anasarca, manifests an excellent example of morbid hypersemia. It is en- larged and turgid with blood, but its texture is not apparently altered. Its secretion is scanty, loaded with albumen and with fibrinous concretions, and epithelium of the tubes. No doubt can exist that its functional energy is gravely impaired. In active menorrhagia we have a third instance in which, from various causes, a morbid hypersemia of a hollow organ lined by a secreting mucous membrance is induced, the results being pain and uneasi- ness in the region of the affected part, increased sensation of heat, tension, and throbbing, which are relieved by the discharge of a fluid more completely sanguineous than the natural secretion; in fact, by an almost real haemorrhage. In such an instance it is not only the mucous lining of the uterus that becomes hyperaemic, but the whole organ, with its thick muscular walls. Their tissue is loosened up and swollen by the quantity of blood admitted, so that the size of the organ is increased; and if this hyperaemia should not in great degree subside, the result may be a permanent enlargement and congested state of the uterus. The foregoing examples, taken from different organs, will serve as sufficient illustrations of the effects of active hypersemia. It seems, how- ever, desirable to allude, somewhat more in detail than has yet been done, to hcemorrhcige, flux, and dropsy, considered as results of hyperaemia in general. _ . These may be regarded as the effusions of hypersemia, as dis- tinguished from inflammation. No doubt they do also occur m cases where inflammatory action is proceeding; but still they are not the special and characteristic products of this state.61 HEMORRHAGE. This term implies the effusion of blood in mass, not merely of some of its constituents; exudations, therefore, which are only coloured by haematine, do not constitute haemorrhage. The best character of an haemorrhagic effusion is the presence of large masses of blood-globules imbedded in fibrinous coagula. Such may proceed either from an opening in a vessel of some magnitude, or from numerous capillaries. In every case where blood is effused in large quantity, the walls of the vessels must have given way; and perhaps this is the case in every instance where a blood- globule escapes from its channel, though it is not, to our minds, absolutely certain that there is no such thing as the haemorrhage by exhalation of the older writers. This suspicion, expressed some seventeen years ago, has been converted into a certainty by the researches of late years. It is not now doubted that both red and white corpuscles can leave the blood-vessels without any rupture of their wall. Opinions are, however, still divided as to the precise manner in which this occurs ; some think (with Strieker) that the vascular wall takes the blood-corpuscle into its substance, and discharges it on the other side; while Cohnheim believes in pre- existing openings in the walls, which are enlarged when the vessel is dilated, and allow the corpuscles to pass. This will be more specially considered under the head of intiammation; but there are reasons for thinking that the same thing happens without inflammation, if not under normal conditions. Haemorrhage may take place either in solid parenchymatous organs, or in those that enclose cavities and form canals. In the first case, the substance of the organ undergoes more.injury than in the latter. An effusion of blood into the brain is a most serious thing; on the surface of the Schneiderian membrane it is a mere trifle. When a large quantity of blood is suddenly extravasated in a solid organ, it ploughs up and disorganizes the tissue, and forms therein a cavity for itself, where it lies like a mass of black currant jelly; the walls of the cavity are usually ragged, and soon become stained to some depth by altered colouring matter. But the extravasation may occur in a very different manner, affecting a great number of points at once, and having the appearance of a multitude of red dots scattered about, or of minute streaks. This is termed capillary apoplexy, to distinguish it from the other form (“apoplect. heerd” of Rokitansky). It is often seen in the grey matter of the cerebral hemispheres after death from concussion of the brain. • If the haemorrhage, though taking place in the same way, be more abundant, the spots and streaks approach closer together, the tissue becomes more swollen, and, at last, may become thoroughly red, the blood having penetrated completely between and among the elements of the parts. This is haemor- rhagic infiltration, and when occurring in a limited region, all parts62 CAUSES OF HEMORRHAGE. of which outside the vessels become occupied with blood (as the alveoli in the lungs), it is called a haemorrhagic infarctus. CAUSES OF HAEMORRHAGE. Beside direct violence or injury, these causes can only be in- creased blood-pressure within the vessels or diminution in the power of resistance possessed by them; but a peculiar constitu- tional vice or diathesis exists in some persons which predisposes them to bleeding, of which the cause is not always obvious. The fluid pressure exerted by blood within the vessels is of course increased both in active and passive hypersemia, and hence either of these conditions may be the cause of haemorrhage. As examples of the former, we may quote the haematuria produced by diuretics, and probably the common occurrence, bleeding from the nose; of the latter, haemorrhage from the stomach in cases of stasis in the portal vein, or from the lung in cases of obstructive heart disease, are good examples. There are various alterations in the walls of vessels which diminish their power of resistance to the blood pressure; such are fatty degeneration and atheroma, causing rigidity of the walls, with or without dilatation and aneu- rism, which occasion hEemorrhage in the brain and in the heart. Similar alterations are, according to Cohnheim, the cause of the haemorrhage which follows the obstruction of small arteries (haemorrhagic infarctus). The vascular walls become altered by the failure of nutrition due to the absence of arterial blood. The vessels of new growths, as tumours and granulations, are often very delicate and liable to rupture, and the same is true of the vessels in new-born infants, whence arises their great liability to haemorrhage. Inflammation of certain parts, as the lungs, is accompanied by hEemorrhage. The peculiar liability to haemor- rhage seen in certain individuals and in certain diseases, is not easily explained. Sometimes it seems almost to constitute a disease by itself, as purpura, or is combined with more serious cachexia as in scurvy; or gives a peculiar character to some cases of other diseases, as haemorrhagic small-pox, haemorrhagic scarlatina, &c. These phenomena have been supposed to depend upon some (chemical) change in the composition of the blood, and though this has not been demonstrated, certain experiments have thrown light upon it. Thus, poisoning with phosphorus or with sulphuric acid produces hEemorrhage, and the injection of solution of com- mon salt into the veins of frogs has been seen to cause the passage of red blood corpuscles through the walls. Some persons again have the remarkable constitutional peculiarity, not only that they are particularly liable to hEemorrhage, but that bleeding, once set up in them, cannot be stopped. This curious tendency, which has received the name of “ hsemophily,” appears to be often here- ditary, and to be especially derived from the female parent. It63 CAUSES OF HyEHOKRHAGE. affects males much, more than females, and more severely. Dr. Copland states that hemorrhages are more common in the off- spring of parents who have suffered from them than in others, and that the tendency is observed in several members oi the same family. Hemorrhage from the rectum, urinary organs, and uterus, is said by Chomel to occur oftener in cold than in warm seasons, and epistaxis and hemoptysis to be more frequent in summer than in winter. Dr. Prout observed a peculiar tendency to renal hemorrhage during the time that cholera was prevalent. Age has an influence in determining the seat of hemorrhage. Epistaxis is most common in children, hemoptysis in the. early period of life, and hemorrhoidal discharge and apoplexy in the aged. Changes in the Effused Blood.—The blood, when effused, may remain in a liquid state for some time, or quickly coagulate. When it is poured out into the substance of a part, it under- goes, after a time, the changes which are commonly observed when a superficial part has been bruised. These consist m alteration of the colour of the haemoglobin, which passes “ from a dark-red into a blue, then into a brown, and lastly into a yellow colour, before it entirely disappears.” At the same time the blood-globules, at least in many cases, undergo peculiai changes; they become massed together, and sometimes included in a kind of cellular envelope; they waste and shrink up, until there remain at last only minute yellow or orange-red granules, which evidently consist chiefly of pigment. Such are not unffe- quently found in the straight tubuli of kidneys affected with morbus Brightii; they are the undoubted records of former hmmorrhage. Black pigment may also be the final stage in the transformation of haemoglobin. In some cases the altered hsematine takes tho form of crystalloid, elongated, rectangular tablets, which vary very much in size, and are coloured more or less deeply by red matter. The formation of these seems to be promoted by the addition of water. They were extremely well seen in a case which Ejg. 4.64 CAUSES OF HEMORRHAGE. ye wteessed of cystic disease of the kidney, in which several large dark ciots were contained in a cyst of extraordinary magnitude, lne fibrine, and other residue of the extravasation, together with broken-up fragments of the tissue, are gradually reabsorbed, the solid substances undergoing liquefaction, chiefly in the way of tatty transformation. Formation of Cysts.—A further change may take place, not so much m the effused blood, as in the parts around it. These, which are at first ragged and torn, undergo more or less inflammation, which ends in the effusion of a solidifying blastema; this fibril- lates, and passes into the state of more or less perfect fibrous or areolar tissue, and thus forms a capsule or cyst, enclosing the now more or less altered blood. Rokitansky describes the cyst as bein°- lined by a coloured, soft, gelatinous, loosely-adherent layer, formed from the coagulum, which, at a later period, by fibrillating, and even developing vessels, assumes very much the aspect of a delicate serous membrane. The contents of the cyst may be a gelatinous or serous fluid alone, or with more or less traces of a vascularized areolar tissue. In some cases absorption takes place completely, and the cavity is obliterated by the adhesion of the opposite sides, and the formation of a linear cicatrix. This, however, is not the most frequent issue, in consequence of the following impediments : —(1) a large size of the cyst; (2) retraction of the surrounding tissue, depending partly on its atrophy, partly on its induration*; (3) the deposition of the fibrine, either as a central lumpy mass, or as a thickish, peripheral, capsulating layer. Hcematoma.—The effused blood-mass may undergo a different kind of change, in consequence of absorption of its watery parts, and become, in this way, a kind of tumour, termed an hsematoma.' classed with new growths; but there is no doubt that it is a simple result of haemorrhage, and this for three reasons:—(1) that it presents no higher structural character than that of fibrine ; (2) that it is generally devoid of vessels; (3) that it does not appear to increase by growth in the proper sense of the term. The blood remains in these masses uncoagulated for a longer or shorter time. The inner parts ultimately undergo some form of degeneration, while the outer form a fibrous investment. Hoematomata occur in serous and synovial cavities, beneath fibrous and mucous membranes, in parenchymatous organs, in the muscular masses of the limbs, in the substance of certain new products, especially encephaloid cancers, and in cavities accidentally formed in the tissues, as in tuberculous cavities of the lungs. An hcematoma thus formed being essentially a fibrinous mass, may undergo certain other changes; saline earthv matter may be deposited in it. inducing a state which is more cor- rectly named cretification, than ossification ; melanic pigment mav probably also form in it. It may, perhaps, undergo a development to the somewhat higher stage of fibrous tumour, and it is said that even true bone may be formed within it. A vascular plexusCAUSES OF E'JEMORRHAGE. 65 has been observed in several instances in tumours of this kind ; and though it may be objected that this has been developed in superadded exudation-matter, yet it appears to us very much more probable that the persistent fibrine afforded the develop- mental nidus from its own substance. Ultimately degeneration and liquefaction of the enclosed blood may take place ; but these changes are very slow. Virchow found altered but recognizable blood-corpuscles in the contents of an hsematoma formed three years and-a-half before death. * The most remarkable hsema- tomata are probably those formed in the cerebral arachnoid. Flux and Dropsy.—We have already in part noticed these results of hypersemia, more particularly of the passive variety; but it seems desirable, on account of their great importance and frequency, to review them separately. The term flux may be properly applied to a discharge of various kinds taking place from a mucous surface, or from a glandular organ connected therewith ; the term dropsy to an effusion of fluid in serous or synovial cavi- ties, or in the areolar tissue. Fluxes will be active or passive, according to the kind of hypersemia which occasions them; the same can scarcely be said of dropsies ; the very great majority of them are passive. It is necessary to fix some limitation to the kind of fluid that may be said to constitute flux or dropsy, as there are many exudations which require to be distinguished on account of their different nature. A sero-purulent effusion, on tiie secretion of a serous cyst, would not come under the present head. Perhaps we shall be nearly correct if we say that a fluid similar to, but more aqueous than the liquor sanguinis, mingled in the case of flux, with a varying quantity of mucous secretion or desquamated epithelium, mature or immature; and if proceed- mg from a gland, mingled with more or less of its secretion, is that which properly belongs to this kind of morbid action. Active Flux. Of active fluxes we have a good example in miniature in a common sneeze ; the morbid sensation which arises in the bchneiderian membrane causes at the same time inhibitory paralysis of arteries and capillaries, and contraction of the expira- tory muscles. More considerable and much more enduring* is tbe hypereemia in the state of coryza, and the serous flux is of course much more prolonged. In this instance we have an opportunity of observing a quality of the fluid of a serous flux which is very common, viz., that it is especially acrid and irritating, so that it will sometimes excoriate the parts over which it flows. What gives it this quality' is not very apparent; it seems at least doubt- ful whether it u merely an excess of the natural saline ingredients of the blood. We should rather suppose it to be some organic acid salt, of new formation. The fluid under the microscope exhibits Very little trace of corpuscles, and is alkaline. .* v*rchow. “Die Krankhaften Geschwtilste,” Bd. I. s 144 givod a good account of htematoma. The whole chapter F66 CAUSES OE H.33MOEEHAGE. Choleraic diarrhoea is the extremest example of active morbid flux ; the whole blood seems to rush to the intestinal surface, and pour out its fluid part, minus the greater part of the albumen and fibrine. The gruel-like evacuations consist of water and saline matter, with some trace of albumen in solution, and a large quantity of columnar epithelium. The reaction of the fluid is alkaline. The filtering action of the intestinal membrane in this instance is very marked, and well worth noticing; it is, indeed, extraordinary that, while so rapid a rush of blood is going on to the exhaling surface the effused fluid should be so considerably altered from that which arrives thither; one would have expected it to contain at least as much albumen as the passive exudation of ascites. We would ask whether the case of choleraic diarrhcea, as well as the similar condition from drastic purgatives, do not absolutely prove the existence of a power influencing the circu- lation other than the vis a tergo of the heart, with the regulating contractility of the blood-vessels ? Does it not also demonstrate that it is this nutrition force of the tissues, as we have called it, which determines whether an hypersemia shall issue in a flux or in an inflammation, in cholera or enteritis ? In profuse salivation, arising from the administration of mercury, or other causes, we have a good instance of an active flux, from a glandular organ, although the fluid is in this case almost identical with the natural secretion. The characteristics generally of active fluxes are those of active hypersemia, which is more or less apparent according to the amount of the effused fluid; if this be con- siderable, the hypersemia is dissipated as fast as it arises. Active Dropsy.—-Active dropsies are often termed acute or febrile, and are not always easily distinguished from inflammatory effu- sions. An almost certain means of distinction is to observe whether the effused fluid is even slightly turbid with flakes of lymph or puriform corpuscles; the presence of these is decisive of the inflammatory nature, or at least of some degree of co-exist- ing inflammation. Acute anasarca affords one of the best- instances of active dropsy, the interruption of the action of the kidneys, at the same time that it deteriorates the quahty of the blood, and renders it less fit to circulate in the vessels, diminishes consider- ably the separation of fluid from it, so that from both these causes there arises a tendency to the effusion of fluid in the areolar tissue, or in other parts. The tenseness and firmness of the anasarcous swelling in many of these cases lead to the belief winch direct observation has confirmed, that the effused fluid contains some amount of fibrine, which coagulates among the elementary parts of the tissue, and makes them more dense and stiff. The same thing occurs also in dropsies of serous cavities, and has been particularly noticed by Vogel, under the name of Hydrops fibri- nosus. Most of these, however, are essentially inflammations, though of a mild type. . , ... Coagulation of Serous Effusions.—It has been shown of late yearsCAUSES OF HAEMORRHAGE. 67 that while the fluid of serous effusions is very rarely spontaneously coagulable, it nearly always contains one of the two constituents by the combination of which fibrin is formed, namely, the fibrino- genous substance of Schmidt. This substance, when mixed with fibri no-plastic substance, or paraglobulin, as for instance with blood-corpuscles, immediately coagulates into fibrin. An exceed- ingly small quantity of paraglobulin is sufficient. Schmidt only failed to produce this result in eleven out of ninety-three cases; and in several of these exceptional cases it was evident that coagulation had already taken place within the body. It does not seem possible to draw any clear line between those exudations which do and those which do not spontaneously coagulate. A slight admixture of blood may of course produce the former result; and so .may post-mortem transudation from the vessels. Passive Flux.—Passive fluxes are of extreme frequency, and are almost invariably associated with debility. Their copiousness, thG aqueous nature of the fluid, the frequent pallor, and non-elevated temperature.of the parts from whence they proceed, as well as re- laxed condition of these, may be said to be their general characters. They take place, as is manifest, from mucous surfaces, or from the glands that open upon them, and are, in consequence, mingled, more or less, with liquor muci, and with epithelial particles, in various stages of formation. In some cases, as in bronchorrhcea, occasionally they may depend upon venous obstruction; but their most essential cause seems to be a peculiarly relaxed and toneless state of the walls of the vessels, and of the tissues affected. This Bconiimed by the beneficial effect of astringents, locally applied. At the same tune, there is no doubt that the state of the blood, and ot the system generally, has an influence upon them, and that as the quality (the crasis) of the former is improved, so the debi- litating profluvium will diminish. It is reasonable to suppose that in this way the walls of the vessels are brought into a con- dition of more healthy tone. The peculiar condition of the tissues, as to their vital endowments, seems to be the only sufficient cause to which we can at all ascribe the different phenomena exhibited u iru same tissues, under similar circumstances. One person s a have a chrome bronchitis, with puriform expectoration, while another person is suffering under bronchorrhcea, although the cir- cumstances may be similar, and the two affections very much alike in their outset. When we speak of a toneless and relaxed con- dition of the vessels being the main cause of the flux, we do not so much mean to imply a defect in their contractile power (though this doubtless exists), but rather such an alteration of their tex- tl5,e’ af “at they are much more transudable by the aqueous part of the blood than is normally the case. In health a certain slLht exudation takes place from the capillaries and all the minuter lbathed Ur"18 a.nutrient atmosphere, in which the tissues are bathed. The exact composition of this is uncertain; but as the following experiment shows, it probably contains less albumen68 CAUSES OF HAEMORRHAGE. and fibrine than the liq. sanguinis. Valentin, having made an albuminous solution of a certain specific gravity, placed it on a filter of stretched serous membrane; and, on examining the fluid which passed through, he found the specific gravity reduced—that is to say, some of the albumen was left behind. It is probable, and seems proved by pathological experience, that increase of the pressure upon the fluid causes it to transude in a less altered state, so that this, whether it be a vis a ter go, from increased cardiac impulse, or caused by an obstruction in the onward direction, must be one cause of an effusion containing much albumen and fibrine also. But the common watery and mucous effusions, which constitute such fluxes as those of leucorrhcea and bronchorrhcna, contain little, if any, albumen, and no fibrine, and are chiefly remarkable by the quantity of their aqueous and saline contents. The same may be said also of the intestinal and cutaneous fluxes that take place in phthisis, and in other exhausting diseases.* In all these it seems certain that the natural filtering power of the walls of the vessels is changed in such a way that they allow the aqueous and saline part of the blood to transude with extreme rapidity. At the same time the crasis of the blood itself is altered; it turns, as the popular phrase is, to water—i.e., its corpuscles and its organic matters are not formed in due proportion; but, on the contrary, waste and diminish, so that the colliquative discharges from the tissues are promoted, and kept up by the (as it were) deliquescing blood. It is interesting to observe that the filtrating property of the vascular membrane is capable of being influenced through the nervous system. Thus, after a fit of hysteria, a quantity of limpid aqueous urine is passed, much more than would have been voided had no such event occurred. This must depend upon an alteration of the condition of the Malpighian tufts, and perhaps of the capillaries of the tubular venous plexus. We have noticed something of the same kind after a small dose of opium. Almost the only instances of fluxes taking place from glands, with which we are acquainted, are those which the kidneys _ afford. That of diabetes depends, as is well known, upon a diuretic sub- stance, sugar circulating in the blood, and not undergoing the decomposition which it should normally. Discharges, such as those of chronic bronchitis, or ehronic dysentery, which were, in their commencement, of truly inflammatory nature, but after- wards become more of the nature of fluxes, often contain a very large amount of muco-purulent matter, and cause a proportionally severe drain on the system. These, however, do not present the hydncmic condition of the general system, before alluded to. Passive Dropsy.—Passive dropsies are the commonest of all ; all the cardiac dropsies, and most of the renal that we meet with are of this kind. Their very aspect excludes the idea of increased * Simon states that he failed in detecting any certain indications of albumen in the sweat collected (by means of linen washed with distilled water) from the breast of a person in the colliquative stago of tubercular phthisis.CAUSES OF HAEMORRHAGE. G9 action (however the term may be understood), and naturally sug- i gests that of some obstruction to the circulation, with diminution of the vital energies. The surface is generally pallid, or of a dull ' venous hue, the animal heat is diminished, the anasarcous swellings I pit easily on pressure, the effect of gravity upon them is marked, : the movements are languid, the respiration often embarrassed, and t the mind depressed. One of the most common, but as we shall see, ; probably, not their immediate cause, at least in many instances, is, I beyond doubt, a mechanical impediment to the free course of the 1 blood. This was long ago proved by the well-known experiment of Lower. He tied the jugular vein of a dog, and found that all t the tissues of the head and face were infiltrated after the lapse of s some hours, not with extravasated blood, as he had rather expected, ' but with clear serum. The analogous instance of ascites resulting i from cirrhosis of the liver has been already mentioned. (Edema !has also, beyond doubt, a very close connection with the lymphatic : system; and some have gone so far as to speak of it as a lymphatic congestion. Ludwig saw reason to believe that an artificially ] produced oedema of the lip of a dog was completely emptied by t the lymphatic channels. These phenomena doubtless depend • upon the continuity of the spaces of areolar tissue with minute or capillary lymphatics. The same explanation applies to accumu- lation of fluid in serous cavities, which have been recently shown ’to stand in open communication with the lymphatics; and this may also depend upon obstructed or imperfect removal of fluid by t the lymphatics. It does not follow that in either of these cases : the fluid accumulated is precisely normal lymph, since it is more - than probable that it undergoes pathological modifications. Conditions of the Occurrence of Dropsy.—But it requires no very long pathological experience to discover that there are cases not unfrequently occurring in which, although there exist abundant causes of obstruction to the circulation, yet dropsy does not take place. Dr. Walshe, in his work on Diseases of the Lungs and Heart (page 649, 2nd ed.), has given a list of most serious diseased con- ditions of the heart which may exist without producing dropsy, and concludes justly, that something beyond all these is wanting to insure this occurrence. What, then, is this ? Andral shows, in his “ Hematologie,” that neither diminution of the globules, nor of the fibrine of the blood, is the immediate cause of dropsy, but that this always accompanies a diminution of the albumen. Ht is therefore highly probable that it is this alteration of the crasis of the blood which determines the occurrence of dropsy in : persons who are predisposed to it by organic disease of the heart or lungs, which causes congestion of the venous system. It is inot only in dropsies of cardiac origin that diminution of the albumen seems to be the most important moment* in producing condition^ leave to intr0!luce this word as a convenient term, signifying an influentialCAUSES OF EUEMOEEHAGE. 70 the effusion. This cause is evidently influential in renal dropsy, in 'which a constant drain of albuminous serum out of the blood is taking place. It is remarkable that this may have been going on for some, perhaps a considerable time, and yet no dropsy occur. The explanation of this is afforded by the circumstance ascertained by Simon and Ohristison, that the decrease of the solid consti- tuents of the serum is not always the leading character in this disease. In three of Simon’s analyses out of four of blood in Bright’s disease, the quantity of albumen was decidedly increased —in one instance amounting to 109-4, considerably above the average of health. Cases of dropsy occasionally are met with, in which, as there appears no absolute organic disease, but only an hydrsemic condition of the blood, one is obliged to conclude that the effusion is dependent on this. Andral mentions that during a famine, where the poorer classes had been obliged to seek a scanty nourishment in roots and herbs growing in the fields, many persons became dropsical. This has not always been observed in famines ; but a curious observation of Briieke’s bears upon this point. He confined a frog, having the sciatic nerve of one leg divided, in a glass vessel for some months. When the frog was insufficiently fed oedema occurred in the leg of which the nerve was divided; abundant animal food removed the oedema, which reappeared when the animal was again starved. The occurrence of oedema, in the affected leg only, illustrates the effect of the abolition of nervous influence in causing local dropsy; the same thing is sometimes, though rarely, observed in infantile paralysis. Dr. Laycock has repeatedly drawn attention to similar facts. In these instances, it is very probable that the proportion of albumen in the blood was diminished, as it is clear that the supply of it ordinarily derived from the food was so. When, from cardiac or renal causes, oi both combined, together with altered crasis of the blood, the tendency to dropsical effusion is very strong, it is quite remarkable how universal the dropsy becomes, the perito- neum, both pleurm, and the pericardium, may be found full of fluid, the areolar texture everywhere infiltrated, the air-cells of the lungs loaded with frothy serum, the tissue of the brain “ wet,” and the subarachnoid fluid considerably increased.. In fact, it seems as if the vessels no longer presented any containing barrier, but per- mitted the escape of fluid in every part that it traversed. It is often observable in these cases, after death, how the naturallv transparent serous membranes have lost this appearance, they loox thickened, of a dull whity grey tint, as it were sodden in the fluid. There can be no doubt that this depends on a chronic thickening and increase of their fibrous layer. Composition of Dropsical Effusions.—This generally approaches more or less closely to that of the serum of the blood. The purer fluids are clear, tolerably limpid, and colourless; often, however, a marked yellow tint is observed, which may either arise irorn dissolved hsematine or from the presence of an increased quantityPNEUMATOSIS. 71 of the natural yellow pigment of the serum; or again, especially in the case of ascites, from dissolved bile pigment. If the latter is the case it will be rendered evident by the reaction with nitric acid. A milk-white turbidity is occasionally observed, which depends on the admixture of fat (oil) or epithelium scales; or, according to Schmidt, of a peculiar albuminous substance. Blood globules may be often seen in great numbers in the fluids of ascites by the aid of the microscope; lymph corpuscles or leucocytes are always present; cholesterine tablets are common in that of hydro- cele, and may be sufficiently numerous to constitute a crystalline deposit. The reaction of the fluid is alkaline ; in rare instances an acid has been observed. Lactic, hippuric, and uric acids have been found. Urea is always present, usually in minute quantity, but as much as 6 per cent, has been determined. Sugar is found in cases of diabetes. The salts are principally chloride of sodium and the other salts of the blood serum, nearly in the same pro- portions as in that fluid. The gases of the blood (oxygen, nitrogen, and carbonic acid) have also been found in minute quantities. The proportion of water varies a good deal, though almost always ' greater than in the blood serum, while the amount of albumen shows converse variations. We subjoin from Yogel the results of seven analyses, which show some remarkable variations in the amount of the several constituents. 1 Water 905’0 ■ Albumen 78 0 Extractive matter .. 4-2 Fat 38 Salts 9 0 Blood Serum. 2 920-0 71-5 8.5 3 927 48 10 9 6 Hydrocele Hydrocele 4 946 33 13 8 Ascites 5 956 29 9 7 8 Ascites 6 988-0 0-9 j- 10 0 Ascites 7 704 290 2 4 Ascites The seventh analysis shows actually a larger amount of albu- men than is present in the serum of the blood; this might be supposed to be an error, if other similar instances had not been observed; it probably depends upon a quantity of the water of the original effusion having been removed by absorption, so that the fluid became more concentrated. The most recent determinations, given by O. Weber,* do not differ from these in any important respect. PNEUMATOSIS. The occurrence of air or gas in various parts of the body was at one time thought to be a much commoner event than it is now admitted to be, and its production was spoken of as a well-recog- nized morbid process, under the name of Pneumatosis. Lately much doubt has been thrown on the very existence of such a process; and the abnormal collections of air are traced to one of the Pitha and Billroth, “ Handbuch der Chirurgie,” vol. i.PNEUMATOSIS. 72 natural air-containing cavities, the lungs and air passages, or to the stomach and intestines, which may contain air swallowed with the food, or gases arising from its decomposition. Many cases, such as the presence of air in the meninges, the pericardium, the medi- astinum, are known to he explicable by the entrance of air during the dissection. Air in the pleura, it is generally admitted, can come only from the lungs; in the peritoneum (for the immense majority of cases) from the intestine, only in the rarest instances gas being actually liberated there by the decomposition of sanious pus, or similar matter. We have a right, then, to regard with the greatest suspicion all cases of apparently spontaneous production of gas, and to exhaust, as far as "possible, other explanations before resorting to the hypothesis of its actual generation. It must he admitted, however, that it is not always easy to explain the origin of gaseous accumulations, ,and the obscurity of such cases gives them an interest out of proportion to their pathological importance. In the Hunterian Museum are pre- served some classical specimens of gaseous cysts, of which it has been said that they “ should be admired, or rather venerated, for their histories include the honourable names of Hunter, of Jenner, of Cavendish ” (Sir J. Paget). These cysts were attached to the intestine of a hog, and were sent "by Jenner to Hunter. Cavendish analysed the air contained, and found what in the language of modern chemistry would mean atmospheric air with excess of carbonic acid and diminished proportion of oxygen. No explana- tion is given of their occurrence, but they were said by Jenner to be common in the intestines of hogs killed in the summer months. The editor of this work met with a very similar specimen in the peritoneum of a man who died with ulceration in the stomach, where small cysts containing gas were attached to the outside of the intestines. The gas was found, as in the case just mentioned, to consist of atmospheric air with excess of carbonic acid and marked diminution of oxygen. In this case it was thought that air con- tained in the stomach (which was greatly distended from pyloric constriction) had found its way, by means of the ulcer, between the coats and along the intestinal wall, till it dilated the serous covering into the form of cysts; the latter becoming in the end permanent structures. In another case, a similar subperitoneal emphysema was observed as a consequence of cancer of the oeso- phagus, and probably from a similar cause.* It is of course always important to determine the absolute impossibility of the gas arising from post-mortem changes, since an appearance called post-mortem emphysema is not uncommon : where gas is produced in numerous small cavities in the viscera by rapid putrefaction, aided by bacteria. This occurs especially in gangrenous or septi- ccemic conditions, and of course more often in hot weather. Payne: Trans. Path. Soc., xxii. 33C. 1S71.73 LETTCOCYTHiEMIA OR LEUCHiEMIA are names given to a condition of the blood in which the white corpuscles are enormously increased in number. The former name is the more correct, as the blood does not lose its red colour, and as the prominent alteration in it is the great increase of white cor- puscles. When a drop of blood, drawn during life, is examined microscopically, the red corpuscles appear tolerably natural, and often arranged in rouleaux, leaving intermediate spaces, which are more or less crowded with the white corpuscles. It is difficult to say what is the proportion which the one set of corpuscles hear to the other. In cases which we have witnessed, we should have regarded them as nearly equal, comparing mass to mass, or thus estimated, the colourless may, from their larger size, preponderate. Dr. Bennet estimates the white as scarcely one-third the number of the red, which seems about the average proportion in advanced cases. Many of the white cor- puscles are very much larger than the natural size. They have more coarsely granular contents than the normal ones, with an interior single, double, or tripartite nucleus. The en- velope and nucleus are brought L into view distinctly by the ac- tion of acetic acid, which ren- ders the granular contents transparent. Occasionally a cre- scentic nucleus is to be seen in the cells, and some free nuclei also are observed between them. In rare cases, coloured nucleated corpuscles, or transitional forms between the white and the red, have been observed. The blood, in fatal cases, is often found imperfectly coagulated—some- times grumous, of a dirty brown colour. The coagula, where decolorized, have not the aspect of healthy fibrine, but are of a more opaque dull yellow, and, when broken up, resemble thick creamy pus. They contain in this part very numerous white cor- puscles, to which the peculiar aspect is no doubt due. The red corpuscles are invariably diminished; the solids of the serum little altered; but the specific gravity of the blood shows a constant dimi- nution (from 1055 to 1040 or 1035). The iron is also deficient from the paucity of red corpuscles. In some cases the blood has had an acid reaction, and has contained xanthin and hypoxanthin (bodies also obtained from the spleen), together with gelatin and some other nitrogenous substances of simpler constitution, and lactic acid. Morbid Anatomy.—Morbid changes are chiefly observed, in' the first place, in the spleen and the lymphatic glands; secondly, in Fia. 5. Blood in Leucooythsemia—four of the\ white corpuscles have been treated with acetic acid. From Dr. H. Bennet’s work.LETTCOCYTIEEMIA OR LEUCHiESIIA. 74 various organs which, are regarded as resembling lymph-glands in structure, viz., the tonsils, and other follicular structures of the intestinal tract, and the red medullary tissue of bones; and finally, in very different organs, as the liver, kidneys, lungs, &c. Some of these morbid changes are regarded as ■primary, being thought to be the cause of the state of the blood; others are called secondary, being regarded as its consequences. Primary Morbid Changes.— The researches of numerous patho- logists, more especially of Virchow,* Bennet,t Neumann,! Hosier, § and Behier, have shown the very close connection of this disease with changes in certain organs, which are believed to take part in the formation of the colourless corpuscles of the bloody viz., the spleen, the lymphatic glands, and the red medulla of bones, as well as, in an inferior degree, other lymphatic structures, such as the follicles of the digestive tract. The superabundance of white corpuscles in the blood appears to be a consequence. of hypertrophy of these structures, which in such a condition furnish to the blood a much larger number of corpuscles than they do normally. There may, however, be hypertrophy of these struc- tures without leucocyfhsemia, and the precise nature of the difference between these classes of cases is not clearly understood. According to the primary morbid change which is the starting- point of the disease, Virchow has distinguished two forms of leuchsemia, viz., the splenic and the lymphatic; in the one the spleen, in the other the lymphatic glands, being the starting- point; but cases in which either of these organs is exclusively affected are uncommon, most being what Virchow calls mixed cases. In purely lymphatic leucocythsemia the colourless elements of the blood are said to be somewhat smaller than ordinary white corpuscles, but to possess larger nuclei; while in the purely splenic cases they resemble the normal corpuscles of the blood, except m being for the most part larger, and usually containing multiple nuclei. The so-called lymphatic form is, however, extremely rare. To these two types must now be added, for the sake of complete- ness, two others, viz., the form which arises from an affection of the osseous medulla, first observed by Neumann; and another, m which the blood changes are dependent upon hypertrophy of the glandular structures of the intestine, seen as yet m one case only, by Behier. The first of these forms has been called the myelogenous by Neumann. He was the first to show that the red medulla of bones has many characters of a lymphatic organ, and is in all probability one of the parts where both red and white » “ Gesammelte Abliandlungen,” 1SS6; “ Die Krankhaften GeschwtUste,” vol. ii.; “ Cellular Pathology,’’ translated by Chance. + On “ Leucocytheemia,” 1852. «olert X “ Archiv der Heilkunde,” 1869, vol. x. p. 68, and 18<0, xi. p. 1. Sfeealw Quar- terly Journal of Microscopical Science,” 1870: art., Neumanns Boe. c . 1871 n 292 _ § ‘‘ Die Pathologie und Therapie der Leuk&mje,” Berlin, 1872. The standard work on the subject, containing very numerous references.75 LET7COOYTH2EHIA OR LEECH JEMIA. blood-corpuscles are formed. In several cases of leucocythcemia changes have been found in this tissue showing an increased pro- duction of white corpuscles; and though in most of these there were also characteristic changes in the spleen and lymphatic glands, one remarkable case has been recorded in which, together with some swelling of the spleen, there was immense enlargement and hyperplasia of the medulla of several bones, so that the latter change could not but be regarded as the predominant one.* The last mode of origin of leucocythsemia is from the follicular (lymphatic) structures of the intestines. Although these parts are often the seat of secondary morbid changes, only one case has been observed in which they appeared to be the starting-point of the disease. This observation is due to M. Behier.f In a man, aged twenty-four, of extremely anaemic appearance, there was found decided leucocythaemia, the white corpuscles being almost as numerous as the red. These corpuscles were of moderate size, as in the lymphatic form of the disease, and smaller than those found in the splenic form. After death no enlargement of the spleen or lymphatic glands, nor any notable change in any organ, except the Peyer’s patches and solitary glands of the small intes- tine, which were much swollen and enlarged by an over-growth of lymphoid tissue, though not ulcerated. No other part being diseased, it was concluded that the excess of white corpuscles was derived from the intestinal follicles; but it is true that the bones were not examined. Histology of Primary Morbid Changes.—The enlargement of the spleen is found to be due to hypertrophy of the proper spleen pulp, the Malpighian follicles being comparatively unaffected, or even small. In early stages the cells of the pulp are chiefly increased ; but later on there is also induration from hypertrophy of the fibrous elements. At the same time exudation takes place, and masses are formed resembling blocks, or infarctions, which may undergo degeneration. In the lymphatic glands the enlargement of the cortical portion, and especially the multiplication of its cellular elements, predominates. Secondary Morbid Changes.—The secondary changes consist chiefly in the formation of tumours, or growths, of a lymphatic character (lymphomata), consisting chiefly of lymph-cells, with a more or less clearly developed stroma or reticulum. Beside actual tumours, diffuse infiltrations of the same kind are met with, and every transitional form between the two may be found. From a study of the latter, it is clear that the morbid change begins in all organs in the interstitial connective tissue, or stroma, not in the special secretive or glandular elements. Thus, in the kidney white corpuscles are found between the tubes, and around the Malpighian bodies. The origin of these infiltrations is not • Waldeyer. Virchow’s “Archir,” vol. lii. 8. + “A Contribution to the History of Leuceomia.” Paris, 1868.76 LETJOOCYTIUEMIA OE LETJCHJEJIIA. always clear, some authorities regarding them as produced by emigration of the leucocytes from the blood-vessels; others, as derived from proliferation of the connective tissue corpuscles. The new growths bear a close resemblance to the structure of a lymphatic gland, and are perhaps due to the enlargement of previously existing adenoid tissue. It is probable that many of the so-called secondary growths are really primary, and contri- bute, like the enlarged spleen and lymphatic glands, to the excess of leucocytes in the blood. The secondary changes are found most commonly on the mucous membrane of the intestines ; sometimes on the respiratory mucous membrane; and, further, in the liver and kidneys. More rarely they have been found in the heart, the retina, the suprarenal capsules; also in the thymus, thyroid, follicles of the tongue, tonsils, and, doubtfully, in the lungs. The organs in which these changes are found are usually abnormal in other respects also. The liver is often very greatly enlarged, and this not so much by lymphatic formations as by enlargement and multiplication of the liver cells. In the kidneys (which, are also often enlarged) we find swelling of the epithelium iu the uriniferous tubes; sometimes proliferation, and other marks of inflammation. In mucous sur- faces the swellings first produced by enlargement of the follicular structures may soften, and lead to ulceration. In the retina, beside minute lymphatic formations, are seen remarkable paleness of the vessels, and peculiar white spots. These changes, consti- tuting the Retinitis leukcsmica of Liebreich, may be observed with the ophthalmoscope. Symptoms and Causes.—The coming on of the disease is usually very insidious. Emaciation, weakness, extreme pallor, and other signs of anaemia, are early symptoms. Dyspnoea is also frequently noted, and later on haemorrhage from various parts (especially from the nose), and dropsy. In women amenorrhoea, and other distui'bances of the sexual functions, are observed. Diarrhoea is a frequent symptom; vomiting is less often present. The affection has been more often observed in males than females, in the ratio of 16 to 9. It seems “ to be most common in adult life, and more frequent in advanced age than in youth.” Some febrile dis- turbance is not unfrequent, but not to any great degree, or of long continuance. Little is known of the causes of this disease. In a few cases there has been an antecedent history of syphilis; in others, of ague (though the ordinary enlargement of the spleen in the latter disease must not be confounded with the leuchaemic enlarge- ment); and, occasionally in women, some disturbance of the sexual functions, such as exhaustion after parturition, or repeated miscar- riages. But in the great majority of cases none of these influences have been traced, and the malady has remained quite unexplained. The prognosis is extremely bad, no case of recovery being known when the disease was well established.CHAPTER III. INFLAMMATION. Familiar as are the phenomena, and time-honoured as is the name of inflammation, authorities are not precisely agreed as to its definition. Formerly the conception was entirely derived from superficial characters; lately endeavours have been made to give it precision, by selecting, and perhaps exaggerating, some of its phenomena. Thus, Dr. Williams speaks of inflammation as a forn of hyperaemia, in which motion of blood in the part is partly increased, partly diminished. Mr. Simon thinks that the entire process consists essentially in local change of material, involv- ing simultaneous loss of substance and reproduction of substance; and differs from ordinary nutrition or life (of which this is also true), in being so rapid and intense, that the opposed results are appreciable. A more comprehensive definition is aimed at by adding to the conception change of nutrition that of functional disturb- ance ; hyperaemia and exudation being regarded as usual but not essential accompaniments (Uhle and Wagner). More lately the notion of inflammation has been derived from its most frequent cause. In the words of Cornil and Ranvier, it is “the series of phenomena observed in tissues or organs analogous to those pro- duced in the same parts artificially by the action of a chemical or physical irritant.” The definition of Dr. Burdon Sanderson is to the same effect. “By the ‘process of inflammation’ I under- stand the succession of changes which occurs in a living tissue when it is injured, provided that the injury is not of such a degree as at once to destroy its structure and vitality.” As to their cause, he divides inflammations into those of extrinsic and those of intrinsic origin; the former being those produced by direct irritation; the latter, those commonly called idiopathic, but more correctly infective, the cause being internal. The effects of injurious irri- tation, according to the same authority, are three: (1) Disorder of circulation ; (2) transudation of the constituents of the blood ; (3) altered mode of growth of the elements of the inflamed texture. Of these the second only is absolutely essential, the alterations of circulation only assisting, but by no means causing,INFLAMMATION. 78 exudation; while the changes in the tissues are the consequence merely of the exudation of blood constituents. Pinal ly, we may sum up the phenomena which every complete definition of inflammation has to account for thus, as, (1) Active hyperaemia, or determination of blood; (2) Stagnation of blood; (3) Escape of the liquid and corpuscular constituents of the blood; (4) Changes in the tissues both in the direction of overgrowth and in the direction of degeneration or loss of substance; (5) Ner- vous disturbance, as j)ain and hyperaesthesia. External Characters.—The general appearance of an inflamed part is well described in the terms handed down from the age of Celsus, as being the seat of redness, heat, pain, and swelling. These are the visible symptoms of a pathological process, which, though continually before our eyes, and of the utmost impor- tance in its results, and though it has been the subject of numberless speculations and careful labours, we are compelled to acknowledge we are still imperfectly acquainted with. The redness of an inflamed part is more or less vivid; it is deepest in the centre, and gradually shades off towards the circumference. In this respect it differs from an extravasation, whose margin is more defined, as also in the circumstance that it can be in a greater degree removed by pressure, though by no means com- pletely. The aspect of the redness may differ according to various circumstances; if the capillary networks of the part affected be plane, or uniformly extended, the injection will appear as an uniform deep blush; if, on the other hand, they are moulded to the form of villi, or folds of mucous membrane, the surface will have the appearance of a pile of red velvet: in fibrous struc- tures a streaky appearance is observed, and generally the form of the redness will depend upon the arrangement of the capillaries of the part. The increased depth of colour is owing chiefly to distension of existing vessels, not in anywise to the formation of new ones, a process which does not take place till a much later period: the only other cause which at present exists is the stain- ing of the surrounding tissues with exuded haemoglobin, which may occur soon after stasis has been established. It is necessary to distinguish carefully between genuine inflammatory redness, and that which often simulates it closely in the dead body, viz., hypo- static, or depending solely on mechanical causes, or on the mode in which death has taken place. It is always desirable to take other circumstances into consideration at the same time, but we may generally say that we should doubt the inflammatory nature of a redness which existed solely in depending parts, or in those the large veins of which were much gorged, or which coincided with a fluid condition of the blood, and which was not attended with any thickening of the part. It may also be ob- served, that after an internal part has been exposed to the air a short time, it assumes a much more marked and brighter redness, which depends solely on the action of the oxygen in the air.INFLAMMATION. 79 Temperature.—The natural temperature of an inflamed part seems to be considerably increased, and this as well to the sensations of the observer as of the sufferer (hence the name “ inflammatio,” a burning). The increase of heat is not always very great, as shown by the thermometer; in some of Hunter’s experiments the difference was not more than one degree, and it seems doubtful whether the heat of the inflamed part is generally greater than that of the internal parts of the body. The temperature of an in- flamed limb is always above that of a corresponding (uninflamed) part; but this difference has not been observed in an inflamed pleura. The rapid interchange of blood must, of course, tend to equalize the temperatures of different parts of the body; but the later experi- ments of Simon* and 0. Weberf have shown that the temperature in a wounded limb may be higher than that of the rectum, though from Jacobson’s experiments this is not always so4 Simon’s experiments with the thermo-electric apparatus, confirmed by those of Weber, have also shown that the arterial blood supplied to an inflamed part is cooler than the seat of inflammation itself; while the venous blood returning from the part, though warmer than the arterial blood, does not come up to the temperature of the inflamed part. Both the inflamed tissues themselves and the venous blood going from them were warmer than the correspond- ing parts of the other (normal) side of the body. There is always a general increase in the temperature of the body, as well as this local elevation; and from the results just quoted it was concluded -that the general elevation was owing to the increased supply of heat from the inflamed part through the blood. Calculations, however, have proved that this explanation is not sufficient, and that local inflammation raises the general temperature in some other way, probably by producing the little-understood condition of general fever. With regard to the cause of increased tempera- ture of inflamed parts, there can be no doubt that is due, in general terms, to the more rapid chemical change which accompanies, or constitutes, increased physiological activity; but no more definite explanation can, as yet, be given. Pain and Swelling.—The pain of inflammation varies much in degree and in kind, according to its seat and intensity and excit- ing cause. That of inflamed serous membranes is often of a peculiar, sharp, darting kind; that of mucous membranes more dull and gravative, as it is termed; that of dense, unyielding, fibrous or bony textures, amounts sometimes to extreme agony. The inflammation heightens the sensibility of the nerves, which are at the same time compressed by the swollen textures and dis- tended vessels. • Holmes’s “System of Surgery:’’ article “Inflammation.’’ + “ Deutsche Klinik,” 1864, No. 43. i .Taeobson, Virchow’s “ Archiv,” vol. li. p. 276. The results obtained by this experi- menter, as well as those of Bernhardt and others, are at present in direct contradiction with those of Simon and Weber. See Virchow’s “ Jahresbericht,” f 18R9, vol. i. p. 124 f. 1870, vol. i. p. 188. “Journal of Anatomy and Physiology,” May, 1871, pi 410. ’INFLAMMATION. 80 Swelling depends manifestly in great measure upon the disten- sion of the vessels with blood ; the hulk of the part is increased just as that of a kidney or liver is when it is injected artificially— its fibres are put on the stretch, its vessels strained, and its cap- sule, if it have one, fully distended. The effusion of plasma is another cause of the swelling, especially at a later period and in some cases, but is not, we think, so powerful a cause as the vascular injection. A third cause of swelling is the production of new elements. Vascular Phenomena. Stasis.—We now proceed to the more minute examination of the phenomena of the inflammatory pro- cess as they have been disclosed to us by the microscope, and we here resume the line of inquiry which we commenced during our consideration of active hypersemia. We saw in this, that, with a certain amount of stimulation, the arteries enlarged, and admitted a greater quantity of blood, which flowed on more rapidly, and traversed with an accelerated current the capillaries and veins which became dilated also. An increased and more rapid blood- flow were then the characters of determination of blood. But if the stimulus is increased, or if it be excessive from the first, phenomena of a very different kind present themselves. The current slackens, it moves slower and slower, and at last ceases; the capillaries are seen distended with a red uniform mass, the veins are also enlarged, and filled with red corpuscles, crowded together, which retain more of their distinct form than those in the capillaries, and move either slowly onwards, or oscillate, or are quite stagnant; the arteries, which are also distended, exhibit for some time a progressive movement onward of their contents, which at first is steady, afterwards becomes jerky, or intermittent, and at last ceases. The condition of stasis, as it is called (iarrjfu, to stand), is now established, and therewith, as the sequence of active hypersemia, inflammation. In the immediate neighbourhood of the seat of stagnation the circulation is still seen going on rapidly, and not only in the parts adjoining on the margins of the stasis, but even within its area capillary streams may be seen here and there rapidly coursing beneath a plexus of channels, which are filled by an uniformly red quiescent mass. Manifestly, determination of blood prevails actively all round the focus of arrest of movement. The stagnant blood in most of the capillaries presents an uniform red mass, in which the separate corpuscles are undistinguishable; here and there gaps may be seen, as if a fissure had taken place, and separated the adjacent portions a little away from each other. Amid the mass of blood- globules, appearing as it were fused together, may be seen occa- sionally one or two white corpuscles: according to our observation, they are certainly not to be seen in the great majority of capillary vessels. After the stasis has existed some time, they may be seen in great numbers coating the walls of the veins, and rolled along by the current passing through them; and occasionally theyINFLAMMATION. 81 i constitute, together with transparent plasma, the entire contents of a portion of vessel of some length, not remaining absolutely • stagnant, but oscillating to and fro, or moving sometimes slowly i onwards, From a vessel thus filled we have observed them escap- i ing into a communicating vein, three or four at a time, and carried ; away into the general circulation. From repeated observations, ’ we are quite satisfied that stasis is not produced in a mechanical isort of way by the corpuscles becoming sticky and adhering to 1 the vascular walls and to each other. When weak liq. ammon. i is applied to the web, and the actual occurrence of stasis watched, i it appears as if the blood stream were suddenly arrested by some iinvisible power; the corpuscles, just before passing on so briskly, Lave retarded in their progress, more and more slowly, oscillate a 1 little, then stop, accumulate, and become congested together into ; a mass. The adhesion of the corpuscles to the capillary walls is i most marked after a short time; but it certainly is not the prime i cause of stasis. On what the adhesion depends it is difficult to isay; it has seemed to us more like the result of an attractive force Itkan of mere stickiness. The diameter of the distended capillaries, ’ which are the seat of stasis, has appeared to us, for the most part, ftolerably uniform; but in one instance we observed numerous (constrictions at various points. These were remarkably abrupt, and extended across one-third, or one-half, the channel. Mr. ’Wharton Jones mentions a local dilatation of arteries, but we find : no account of these local contractions of the capillaries. The red -globules, for the most part, appear to be packed together without any regular arrangement, but occasionally they may be seen lying together in rouleaux, like the corpuscles of human blood, ' with their long diameter transverse to the axis of the vessel. The ' white corpuscles are not unfrequently seen of a pyriform shape, dragging slowly along, or actually sticking to the sides of the > vessels; that they do possess some degree of adhesiveness is mani- fest, but it does not seem to be so considerable or general as Dr. ' Williams supposes. When the inflammation is subsiding, find the stagnant blood beginning again to resume its course, all that can be observed is, that the agglomerated mass of red corpuscles in a vessel loosens and breaks up, so that the individual corpuscles are again visible, while the impulse of the heart makes itself more and more felt, and at last sweeps away the accumulation altogether, having first detached small portions successively. Fibrinous coagula also form occasionally, as Mr. Wharton Jones describes, and are similarly disintegrated, and carried away by the returning current during resolution of the inflammation. While stagnation continues, a small quantity of haemoglobin dissolved in the serum exudes, and imparts to the tissues bordering the vessels some | degree of yellow staining. Later Observations.—We intend the foregoing account to serve < as a description of what may be actually observed of the process of inflammation, as it occurs in the frcg’s web. Most of the G82 INFLAMMATION. statements we have verified by our own examination, and we believe they agree, so far as they go, with those of the best observers ; but certain additional features have been described by later observers, who have chosen the mesentery, rather than the foot of the frog, to study these phenomena, and have used various improved methods. The following account is mainly that of Cohnheim,* but owes much also to the admirable summary of Dr. Bui'don Sanderson, f When the mesentery of a frog (the animal being kept at rest by poisoning with curare) is exposed under the microscope, the external air acts as a stimulus, and produces inflammation. The first thing seen is a dilatation of the arteries, which reaches a climax in about ten or twelve hours, when they may be double their original diameter; there is also a simultaneous elongation. A similar dilatation of the veins, but without elongation, follows after an interval. The velocity of the current is increased for a short time, but then becomes constant. Thus far the phenomena are identical with those of active liyperremia. But in inflammation the following changes are observed :—The current becomes slower (sometimes suddenly), loses its normal central or axial character, the corpuscles moving along in the whole breadth of the vessels, both arteries and veins. In the latter, however, the white corpuscles show a peculiar tend- ency to loiter, or hug the walls, till the inner surface of the veins becomes lined with rows of sta- tionary white corpuscles, between which the current of blood con- tinues. Next occurs the extra- ordinary phenomenon which Cohnheim has re-discovered and brought into prominence. The white corpuscles begin to pene- trate the walls of the vein ; small from°a vein and capillary of the tadpole’s bud-like projections are seen on tail. (Caton, “Journal of Anatomy and ^ outer side, which graduallv Physiology,” vol. v., pi. iv., 1871.) ihe r . .... e . j "wall of the (branched) vein is seen to be 6Ql8Xg6 ‘WilllG Still connected penetrated by white corpuscles, while the the wall, till at length they red still move in the central s* ream. On , , , ,, « the outside of the capillary (above) red detach themselves and become corpuscles are seen projecting'. free leucocytes. Others, mean- while, leave the venous current, become attached to the wall, and penetrate it in the same way. The time necessary to set up this process varies much; sometimes it does not begin till ® Virchow's “Archiv,” 1867, vol. xl., p. 1. „ . + Holmes’s “ System of Surgery,” vol. V.: article “ Inflammation, p. <29, &c.83 INFLAMMATION. after many hours. Simultaneously with the veins, the capillaries also enlarge, but not more than one-sixth or one-fourth of their diameter; in some the current goes on unchanged, while in others retardation of the current and emigration of the leucocytes take place as in the veins. Some red corpuscles also leave the veins and capillaries at the same time as the white, but not in the same numbers; they pass through slowly, and are sometimes broken in two by the blood current. There is also simultaneous exudation of blood serum. After a time (perhaps twenty-four hours) the capillaries and veins are closely surrounded with the emigrated blood corpuscles, and though these rapidly pass away, their places are taken by others. The leucocytes, travelling partly by their own activity and partly perhaps conveyed by the exuded serum, at length fill the mesenteric tissue, and form layers on its upper surface, which may be solidified by the coagulation of the exuded serum. Subsequent to this process, but in reality a part of it, is the phenomenon known as stasis, already described, which has its seat in the capillaries, and which therefore brings us back to the ' description formerly given.* Causes of the Vascular Phenomena of Inflammation.—If we adopt ' the division of Dr. Burdon Sanderson (formerly given), we must ■ consider the phenomena of inflammation under three heads—(1) Disorders of circulation ; (2) transudation of serum, emigration of j.1 cells, and stasis; (3) changes in the elements of the tissues. The I 1 causes of disordered circulation have already been considered under the head of Hyperaemia ; but those which come imder the ' second head are peculiar to inflammation. These cannot be simply a consequence of the first class of phenomena, as then every active ■ hyperaemia would result in inflammation : some other explanation 1 is necessary, and the following have been suggested. The view of Di\ Williams is that stasis and inflammation depend upon the white blood corpuscles. He maintains “ that an essential part of inflammation is the production of numerous white globules in the inflamed vessels; and that the obstruction of these vessels is mainly due to the adhesive properties of these globules.” With regard to this doctrine, it must be admitted that Dr. W llliams anticipated some recent discoveries, in drawing attention to the behaviour of the white corpuscles; but neither the increased number nor the adhesiveness of these elements can completely explain the phenomena which have been described. J Other explanations formerly given need hardly be noticed now • since they are obviously untenable in face of the new facts which ! have come to light. There are, in fact, two distinct nhenomena i which have now to bo accounted for—the emigration of cells and i the subsequent stasis. ’ . nn™t„?hon1'1 be Statr1 that cT"7ati°n of leucocytes from the vessels appears to be a normal process in frogs, and also in some mvertebrata; and is perhans so under i some circumstances in the higher vertebrata. pernaps so under84 INFLAMMATION'. Theories of Cell Migration.—Cohnheim explained the passage of leucocytes by their spontaneous amoeboid movements. The re- tardation of the blood current, which is itself a consequence of arterial dilatation, causes them to collect at the sides of the vessels, where they lose their spherical form and become flattened against the wall, and at the same time commence those movements, con- sisting in the protrusion of protoplasmic processes, which they exhibit elsewhere. These processes, sent out in all directions, extend themselves where they meet with least resistance, through certain gaps or stomata which Cohnheim believes to exist in the veins between the epithelial cells of their inner membrane and in the capillaries between the similar cells which he believes to constitute their walls. The middle and outer coats of the veins are also supposed by him to possess interstices sufficient tu allow the leucocytes to pass. The red corpuscles, which have no spon- taneous movements, he supposes to be forced by mere increase of hydrostatic pressure through the openings, already enlarged by the passage of the leucocytes. On this view, then, the structure of the vessels remains normal, though possessing a natural adap- tation for cell migration ; while others, on the contrary, deny the existence of these openings in the vascular walls, and regard the permeability of the vessels to their contents as a morbid pheno- menon, and the essential cause of exudation and cell migration. According to Dr. Burdon Sanderson, the retardation of the blood current (which is the first stage of stasis), and the exuda- tion of liquor sanguinis, as well as that of the white and red corpuscles, are all due to the same cause, namely, a “ local change in the vascular walls.” With respect to the nature of this change, he says that “The mode in which an injury changes the Irving substance of the vascular walls so as to make them permeable to the blood is unknown. The nature of the change itself is also unknown.” From certain appearances observed in the formation of new vessels he is, however, led to infer “that the primary change consists in the transition of the material from the formed into the plastic condition; from a state in which it is resistant, because inactive, to one in which it is more living, and therefore more labile.” , ,, . , , Theories of the Cause of Stasis.—Whether this phenomenon be regarded as the cause, the consequence, or the mere accompani- ment of exudation, its causation is a question of much interest, and was described in the first edition of this work as the great and unsolved problem of inflammation. Henle regarded it as due to the inspissation of the blood plasma, resulting from exudation, this condition causing endosmotic changes in the red corpuscles, by which they are disposed to aggregate. Rokitansky suggested in addition the formation of fibrinous coagula. Ale do not doubt that the changes wrought by exudation, draining away ot liq. sanguinis, multiplication of white corpuscles, and coagulation o the fibrine, may all exercise considerable influence m prolong-INFLAMMATION. 85 ing and confirming the stasis, and determining its results, but we do not think they are the primary and causative phenomena. It seems to us a very important fact, which Mr. Wharton Jones states, and which we have observed ourselves, that “stagnation commences in the capillaries, and extends from them to the veins on the one hand, and the arteries on the other.” We have seen the blood stagnant in the capillaries, while it was moving on steadily through an adjacent artery and vein. This points to the capillaries as the part where the arrest commences. Again, it is a very important circumstance, that, if a strong stimulus be applied, the stasis takes place almost immediately: it seems as if the blood were suddenly coagulated in the capillaries. That in the healthy state the red corpuscles pass on so smoothly and uninterrupt- edly, within their even rela- tively narrow channels, that they shun, as is well known, the walls, and allow a thin layer of the fluid in which they float to intervene, while the colourless corpuscles show no such tendency, but affect -' c x a preference for the so-called _ , .. . , . , ,r wt. ^ T > , f,, , , , , Production of stasis from Mr. Wharton Jones’ Stlif layer, and move slowly Essay, Guy’s Hospital Reports, vol. vi. p. 35. onwards in it; that there is decidedly a tendency of the red globules to aggregate together in blood drawn from the body, while this seems to be held in abeyance when the blood is within the vessels ; that the smallest capillaries, according to Wharton Jones, are traversed chiefly by plasma, and by a few colourless corpuscles, one after the other, with only a single red corpuscle now and then ; that the red and colourless corpuscles show no tendency to stick together,—appear to us very significant facts, which require some such hypothesis as that offered in Wharton Jones’ report, April, 1844, viz.: “That there exists some sort of attraction between the colourless corpuscles and the walls of the vessels, but an absence of attraction, if not a repulsion, between the red corpuscles and their walls, as also between the red and colourless corpuscles.” We have already (page 81) given reasons for rejecting the adhesiveness of the corpuscles themselves as the cause of stasis, and the determining cause must be one which acts by means of the vessels in which the blood is contained. It must, therefore, by some change either (1) in the walls of the vessels themselves’, (2) in the nerves acting through the vessels, or (3) in the sur- rounding tissues, altering their normal vital relations to the blood. It must, in fine, depend upon some derangement of the normal Fig. 7.INFLAMMATION. 86 play of forces between the vessels and their contents. Mr. Lister’s* experiments, published since the iirst edition of this work, strongly support the views that the primary change is not in the blood. He attributes stasis to some influence of the tissues on the blood circulating in them, which brings it into the same condition, with respect to cohesiveness of its corpuscles, as that of blood drawn from the body. Mr. Wharton Jones formerly con- ceived that it was the nervous influence which prevented the red corpuscles from aggregating together within the vessels, as they do out of the body, and that stasis depended on the suspension of this influence. It was an ingenious and probable opinion, but is disproved by the experiments which he himself has performed, and which are related in the Astley Cooper Prize Essay. All that can be said respecting the alterations in the vessels themselves, may be found in Dr. Sanderson’s essay. With regard to stasis, he adopts the same explanation as with respect to exuda- tion of serum and cells, believing it to be due not to the properties of the red corpuscles, but to an abnormal condition of the vessels; and quotes some experiments of Byneck,t which showed that other fluids, such as milk, circulating in irritated vessels, are also liable to stagnation. Mr. Lister had previously shown that healthy blood stagnates in the vessels of a part exposed to the action of irritants. None of these experiments, however, show that the original change is not one outside the vessels, in the tissues, by which the vascular wall is secondarily affected. Our limits forbid discussion; and we therefore simply pass on to state our own opinion, so far as we may venture to offer one, on this qucestio vexata. We saw reason to believe that the tissues, in virtue of their nutrition power, exercised an influence on the move- ment of the blood: that in active hypersemia their attractive force was increased ; and we would now add, that it is through the failure of this nutrition power that we believe stagnation takes place. The exact nature of the influence exercised by the tissues over the blood, which traverses the capillary channels, is unknown. All that we can discern is, that it is such as promotes its free passage through them j and therefore, when it is in abeyance or greatly altered, it is to be expected that the circulation will be interrupted also. More than this we cannot gather from the observed phenomena, and we would only offer the lemaik, in conclusion, that in coincidence with the establishment of complete stasis, cessation of the natural function of the part occurs, and other processes commence—the exudative, in which the plasma, that in a healthy state would have ministered to and maintained healthy action, is consumed in wasteful or even destructive changes. Whether the stasis depend solely on a persistence and exaggeration of the attraction of the tissues for the blood which exist in active hyperaemia, or upon this and an abolition of the natural non- *“ Philosophical Transactions,” 1858. + Iloilo It’s “ Untersuchungen, Leipzig, 1S70, p. 103.87 INFLAMMATION. aggregative tendency, or even repulsive tendency of the red cor- . puscles for each other and for the walls of the vessels, must remain ■ uncertain; but the coincidence before noticed must be allowed to : give considerable support to the main point, on whicii we would : insist, viz., that the nutrition power of the tissues is chiefly con- , cerned in the production of the flow of active hypersemia, and the i stasis of inflammation. Not very different from this, at least on this special point, is the ' theory of Virchow. He supposes the starting point in the chain of phenomena in inflammation to be in the tissues. The stimulus (whatever it may be) is supposed to act upon the cells, not directly , on the vessels, ‘arousing in them greater nutritive activity; in i consequence of which there is more rapid exudation of nutrient material and increased afflux of blood. Thus are caused the phenomena of hypersemia and exudation. We must now discuss the nature of these changes in the tissues, on which the theory of Virchow rests. Alterations of the Tissues in Inflammation.—Beside the phenomena which have been described as occurring in the blood and the vessels, important alterations are found in tissues which have been the seat , of inflammation. These changes are partly constructive, partly destructive; we shall first consider the former. Constructive or reproductive changes are shown by the presence in the tissues of a number of elements which were not there before, these elements not being specialized cells such as epithelial or connective tissue cells, but having an indeterminate or embryonic character. These may be summarily described as young cells. Three hypotheses have been made about the origin of these elements:—(1) that they are formed in an amorphous blastema exuded from the vessels; (2) that they result from the multiplication of the ele- ments of the tissues; (3) that they are extravasated leucocytes. The same three hypotheses have been made respecting the origin of the corpuscles of pus and inflammatory lymph, with which, of course, the new elements of the tissues are identical. We are now concerned only with the second of these theories, in sup- port of which it has been asserted that evidences of multiplication can be traced in the tissue-cells of an inflamed part. These evidences are such as the presence of two or more immature cells on the pi’ecise spot where only one is normally found; cells pressed closely together, and showing by their form that they have been derived from the division of one mass; cells containing several nuclei, &c. In vascular organs, it is difficult or impossible to distinguish leucocytes escaped from the vessels from cells which may be the brood of the tissue elements, and hence non-vascular tissues have been especially studied. The observations of Redfern on the ulceration of cartilages were among the earliest and the best. In this condition, the gradual change of a single cell into a collection of pus cells may be traced within different cartilage cap- sules. This process was formerly not regardod as inflammation,INFLAMMATION. 88 but similar phenomena havo lately been observed as the conse- quence of artificial irritation of cartilage.* The favourite object of investigation has been, however, the cornea, both on account of the simplicity of its structure and the clearness with which its elements can be brought into view by certain re-agents. By inducing inflammation with nitrate of silver, then excising the cornea, and treating it with solutions of gold, many of the con- nective tissue corpuscles are seen to have undergone changes indicative of increased vitality and proliferation; though there are always some which exhibit no change. In those which are altered the rays or processes (of the stellate corpuscles) show signs of contractility; then they become thicker and shorter, till they become converted into clumps of irregular shape; some merely granular, others containing newly-formed nuclei. They also show amoeboid movements, the nuclei changing their relative position, as granules do in the body of an amoeba. These changes can only be clearly seen within the first twenty-four hours after the application of the stimulus; as after this the cornea becomes turbid with a vast number of leucocytes, of which most (or, according to Cohnheim, all) are emigrants from the blood- vessels. Dr. Burdon Sanderson, from whom the above account is taken, thinks “ it cannot be doubted that the little spheroids contained in the amoeba-like masses are young pus corpuscles; and that even in the cornea suppuration must be regarded as, at all events, in part, a process of germination.” These conclu- sions, first announced by Becklinghausen, before the publication of Cohnheim’s researches, are denied by the latter pathologist, who endeavoured, by injecting finely divided pigment into the veins, to mark the blood corpuscles, and thus distinguish them when emigrated, from the elements of the tissues. Leucocytes thus coloured were found in the inflamed cornea, and thus plainly proclaimed their origin from the blood. But according to other observers all the leucocytes seen are not thus coloured. The same difference of opinion exists with respect to -another object studied in the living state, namely, the frog’s tongue, in which the observations of Cohnheim and Strieker are precisely contradictory. The same is true of the omentum, with respect to which Cohnheim asserts that the inflammatory cells are merely superimposed upon the unchanged elements of the tissue, whhe most other observers have traced the formation of pus, or in- flammatory cells, from the serous epithelium, or from the con- nective tissue nuclei. The annexed figure shows the actual appearance of an inflamed omentum, and exhibits the germination of the endothelial elements. It should, however, be said that such germinative changes are, according to the editor s observations, of normal occurrence in the omentum, and only appear to be more abundant and active in inflammation or other liyperamic con- • Kremiansky, “Wiener Medizinische Woclicnschrift ”: 1S6S. Cornil et Ranvier, “ Manuel d’Histolog-ie Patliologique,” p. 72. Paris, 1869.VARIETIES OF INFLAMMATION'. 89 ditions. Another possible source of new elements should be borne . in mind, namely, the multiplication of leucocytes after they have t escaped from the ves- .-sels. That this is pos- Fig. 8. - si bio is shown by the (observation of Klein, ’ who was fortunate (enough to see a leuco- icyte divide on the stage (of the microscope ; and ] Recklinghausen, some (years ago, concluded tfrom observations made con an excised cornea (maintained in a living sstate, that new cells (were produced by the (multiplication of the i unfixed corpuscles of tthe cornea or free leu- ccocytes. It is clear that the (evidence is strongly in (favour of the occurrence of changes in the tis- fssues, denoted by in- i' crease and proliferation, but it may be still a question whether these changes are a con- ■ sequence of the nutritive stimulus given by hypersemia and exudation, or are themselves the original starting point of the inflammation, and the cause of the increased flow of blood and exudation of serum. The special forms and consequences of in- flammatory new growth will be considered afterwards. Fenestrated portion of the human omentum in acute peritonitis, caused by ruptured intestine. (From a preparation by the editor.) a a a, Groups of nuclei, or young cells, produced by prolifera'ion. 6, Large mother-cell, or endothelial plate, containing many mi-lei. c c c, Free corpuscles, or young cells, entangled in threads of fibrin. These may be either new elements produced by germination, or emigrants from the blood-vessels. VARIETIES OF INFLAMMATION. These depend partly on differences inherent in the subject, partly on different exciting causes. What is called Sthenic inflam- mation is that which occurs in a healthy person, from exposure to cold, or the application of some irritant which does not contami- nate and depress the general system. The symptoms, if the inflammation is extensive, run high, the febrile excitement is con- I i sidorable, the pulse of good force, but moderate frequency, and depressant remedies are borne well. The exudations contain much ; plastic matter, and pus, if formed, is of the kind termed laudable. .Asthenic inflammation occurs in persons originally weakly or i rendered so by tho action of the exciting cause, as in the inflam- mations of influenza j the pulse, though frequent, has no strength,90 VARIETIES OF INFLAMMATION. the fever is of a lower type, and the effused matters manifest little plasticity. The terms acute, eul-acule, and chronic, have reference mainly to the periods of duration of the inflammation, or to the rapidity or slowness of its course. Acute inflammation is often, but not necessarily, sthenic; chronic and sub-acute are often not asthenic. Many changes are commonly said to proceed from chronic inflammation, which probably belong more to the class of degenerations; it is, however, difficult to draw any marked line between the two. The term “ sthenic” has been objected to by some who have taken it to imply that the morbid process was attended by an increase of vital force. Such of course is not the case ; but the name may be well retained, to designate a variety of inflammation, which differs in several respects, notably in the cr6i’.vos of the pulse from another form, whose features are those of debility. Intensity of Inflammation.—Inflammations may be of very dif- ferent grades of intensity, as is well exemplified in the case of the pleurae. Some pleurisies give rise to effusions which are scarcely more than modified liquor sanguinis, and are easily resorbed, while others fill the serous cavity with perfect pus, and depress the vital powers seriously. It is important to be aware that an inflammation may be sub-acute or chronic from the outset; an acute inflammation cannot well be overlooked—a chronic, if un- preceded by acute symptoms, may easily be : such inflammations are sometimes said to be latent. Congestive inflammation differs not much from asthenic; its effusions are of the same kind, but it partakes in a considerable degree of the nature of passive hypermmia—indeed, is such originally, and has, subsequently, inflammation, acute or subacute, grafted upon it. This must be remembered in treating it. Specific Inflammations.—The chief character of erythematous or erysipelatous inflammation is its tendency to spread and travel over an extensive surface ; this seems to depend, at least in part, on the peculiar character of the effusion, which consists, for the most part, of serum, or sero-purulent matter, and not of fibrine, which in phlegmonous inflammations establishes a barrier between them and the surrounding textures. The general symptoms.are in most cases those of adynamic or typhoid fever; depletion is injurious, and stimulants are required at an early period. There is good evidence to show that a peculiar poison, capable of being communicated by infection, is the cause of these inflammations, and that this acts upon and modifies the system, even before the phlogistic process has made its appearance. They are, therefore, with respect to their exciting cause, to be ranked together with other inflammations, such as the rheumatic, gouty, syphilitic, &c., each of which manifests certain peculiarities, but depends, essentially, upon the presence of some materies morhi in the blood. These inflammations also exhibit verv clearly the affinity of certain parts of the tissues for certain morbid matters, which are their exciting causes; thus, lepra has its seatVARIETIES OF INFLAMMATION. 91 of election about the prominence of the knees and elbows ; eczema prefers the side of llexion of the limbs and the bends of joints; liichen affects the outer sides. The same is exemplified in the aaction of many medicines and poisons; arsenic, in small doses, ^produces conjunctivitis—in larger, inflammation of the stomach mnd intestines, corrosive sublimate inflames the larger intestines, nmercury the gums, and so on; in all these cases the affinity or attraction of the elements of the tissue for the substance is clearly eevinced. Diphtheritic inflammation is characterized by the early eexudation upon mucous surfaces of a film or membrane of fibrinous imatter of dirty white or greyish appearance ; this may extend over aa considerable tract, commencing often in the fauces, and thence ^spreading to the mouth, the larynx, the air passages, the oesophagus, aand more or less of the alimentary canal. The subjacent mucous rmembrane is but little swollen, of a deep dull red, and inclined to ibleed, on the removal of the exudation. The attendant fever is of ..a low kind, and much of the danger depends upon the insidious, aalmost latent manner, in which the exudation takes place, so that .-suffocation may be actually threatened before alarm is taken. IThis kind of inflammation occurs most often in epidemics. It has Ibeen observed in France that during its prevalence wounds and ’.ulcerations assumed an unhealthy character, and were indisposed • to heal. The anatomical characters of diphtheritic false membranes •are very peculiar, and will be further considered hereafter. Of a -somewhat similar kind are the croupous inflammations; among ’" these we should, perhaps, rank the so-called bronchial polypi, the . pieces of membrane which are passed after the irritation of calomel, and in some other cases of intestinal disorder, and, probably, some • of the membranous exudations of dysmenorrhcea. Hcemorrliagic inflammation is another variety; it seems chiefly to occur in . individuals predisposed to haemorrhage, or in places where scurvy -is prevalent. Dr. Williams has found it associated with cirrhosis 1 of the liver and granular degeneration of the kidney. His opinion -is, that it is more dependent on an altered condition of the colour- ing matter than on a deficiency of the fibrine. Its character is decidedly asthenic. Scrofulous Inflammation.—Scrofulous inflammation is not so much a distinct variety as some others, but has been distinguished as follows:— The inflammations called scrofulous occur almost exclusively in children and young persons, especially such as have what must be called a special tendency or diathesis. In such persons a slight irritation will produce an inflammation of singular obstinacy, and • extremely liable to cause permanent destruction or inj ury of parts, .rheir tissues seem to have less power of resistance to disease and less power of restoration than those of “ healthy ” persons •’ and . nenee the inflammations partake of the same character. Scrofulous ■ .nflammations are also very liablo to affect secondarily lymphatic -glands, and excite in them the same lingering and destructiveCAUSES OF INFLAMMATION. 92 inflammations. Tho products of inflammation are not absorbed so complete^ as in normal inflammations, and thus produce tbe cheesy masses often called scrofulous matter; but this is seen also in other inflammations. Tho changes, inflammatory and other- wise, which accompany (either as cause or effect) the presence of tubercles, have the same general character as those originally called scrofulous. To sum up the views of Virchow (which we have followed), scrofulous inflammations are distinguished by their physiological character, as being easily aroused, obstinate, and destructive; by their anatomical relations, being often connected with the lymphatic system; and by the tendency to generate per- sistent masses of cheesy or degenerated matter. CAUSES OF INFLAMMATION. We have already alluded to the causes of inflammation in the foregoing remarks, and shall now do little more than briefly enumerate them. Predisposing causes are almost always debili- tating influences; a strong part is less liable to inflame tnan a weak one—a previous attack of inflammation especially renders a part more prone to undergo a second. Certain unhealthy con- ditions of the blood (of which that induced by foul air is one) predispose the system to inflammation from trifling causes, which would pass inoperative in a sound state. Exciting causes are either such as act on the part directly which they inflame, or indirectly through the medium of another._ Direct Causes.— These may be mechanical irritants, such as a splin- ter in the flesh ; or chemical, as a strong acid, or acrid salt ;■or vital, such as mustard, &c., whose operation only affects living structures. It is remarkable that the urinary and biliary secretions which excite only healthy action in the mucous surface oyer which they naturally flow, and which, or at least some of their constituents, produce no particular injurious effects when absorbed mto the blood, act as the most violent and fatal irritants upon serous mem- branes, and the areolar tissue, when effused into them. Tins shows clearly the important part played by the tissues themselves in the process of inflammation: that which is a healthy stimulant to one texture is the cause of destructive inflammation to another. The production of local inflammations from the presence ot some substance in the general mass of blood for seem to have a special affinity, has a ready been notice l but we may add, that it is in these cases that we observe the liitere-tin phenomena of symmetrical disease;* the corresponding parts of the two lateral halves of the body being affected almost to the exclusion of others. Here, again, we have evidence of the pre- dominant influence of the tissues; the parts which are exact y • For a most interesting exposition of the subject of symmetrical diseases, we refer to Mr. Puget’s Lectures for 1847.CAUSES OF INFLAMMATION. 93 .alike are affected alike, and tlie materies morbi passes by others. .How unable is tbe neuro-pathoiogical theory to explain such '.instances of inflammation ! Indirect Causes.—The second class of causes are those which act iindirectly on the part which suffers. The most common of these is ccold, which appears to act by repelling the blood from the surface, land causing it to accumulate in some internal part. This will be ddifferent, according to the previous predisposition ; thus one person, aas the result of a severe chill, will have bronchitis, another diar- rrhoea, a third peritonitis, a fourth renal congestion, and so on. Mala- rria, the repelling of eruptions, the arrest of habitual discharges, the ssudden healing of ulcers, are also recognized as causes of internal iinflammations, which they probably produce in the same way as ccold, but the active congestion of the incipient process is more apt tto issue in haemorrhage. It is matter of much uncertainty as to hhow many inflammations originate; they come on, as it seems, ^spontaneously, without the individual being aware of any exciting cause. Both as respects these, and those which are produced by ccold, &c., it seems to us necessary to recognize some special con- Jdition of the tissue, which in the one case converts the congestion into an inflammation, and in the other is the sole and efficient cause. In ague, for instance, during the cold stage of each cparoxysm, considerable congestion of the internal viscera takes iplace, but inflammation of these is comparatively rare. In "healthy states of the system, the surface may remain severely cchilled for several hours, during which the blood must accumulate i in the internal organs, but this does not occasion inflammation. IThese instances show that mere repellent influences producing congestion are not adequate to produce inflammation solely by ■ themselves. Even in the case of a common catarrh, there is a much reason to believe that the inflammation of the mucous sur- face depends much more on some infecting miasm, as that of 'influenza, or some unhealthy condition of the blood, than on exposure to cold or wet; and, in fact, many a cold occurs without any such exposure. In such cases the predisposing cause becomes the most important, or may even be the exciting also. Influence of the Nerves.—We have not yet noticed the nervous influence in its relation to the causes of inflammation. This is considered the prime mover in the process by those - who .adopt the neuro-pathoiogical theory; in our view it holds a • very secondary place. That disturbance of the nervous force may prove a cause of inflammation cannot be doubted; Lalle- mand (quoted by Dr. Williams) “relates a case in which a .ligature, involving the right brachial plexus, was followed by inflammation and suppuration of the opposite hemisphere of the brain.” Sir J. Paget mentions a case in which a portion of a calculus imparted in the urethra excited inflammation, with < deposits of lymph and pus in the testicle. Instances of a similar ! kind, or of active hyperaemia similarly occasioned, are not very94 TERMINATION OF INFLAMMATION. rare, and they certainly prove the capability of the nervous influ- ence to set on foot the inflammatory process. We have already given some evidence that it is not through this channel that the causes of inflammation usually operate; but certain special cases of the connection of nerves with inflammation may be noticed. In the disease called herpes zoster, discrete inflammation of the shin is met with over the distribution of a certain nerve, and is doubt- less connected with some abnormality of innervation. The same is true of the skin disease called morphcea, or a form of scleio- derma. Various changes, such as oedema, hyperaemia, &c., are observed as the consequence of injury or division of nerve trunks by wounds ; but rarely true inflammation. Summary— Coinciding, as we completely do, with Sir J. -Paget in his enumeration of four conditions as necessary to healthy nutrition, and believing that the derangement of one of these primarily, with secondary derangement of the others, occurs in every case of inflammation, we might divide the various causes which we have noticed into such as affect—(1) the contractility oi the vessels; (2) the healthy crasis of the blood; (3) the nervous influence; (4) the life and nutritive actions of the part. TERMINATION OF INFLAMMATION. In strict language, there is only one termination to the inflam- matory process, viz., that which is commonly called resolution, in which the diseased action ceases to advance, and then recedes by the same steps as those by which it arrived at the condition of stasis. The microscopically visible phenomena have been before described, and they correspond to the subsidence of the general symptom, to the paling of the redness, the lowering of the tempera- ture, the lessening of the swelling and pain. The recovery of the part may be complete; but more often some, it may be slight, indications remain, for a time, of the by-past malady, and. of some deficiency of the vital powers. These consist, in some degree, ot congestion of the vessels, especially of the veins, from an enfeebled state of their contractility, in a less perfect fulfilment of the func- tion of the part, and in a proneness to relapse on the application ot slight exciting causes. . . » ,, Inflammations which arise in consequence of a mal-erasis of the blood rarely undergo resolution, or if they do it is only to reappear in another part, and perhaps a more important. This constitutes metastasis. A good example of this transfer of inflammation from one part to another is afforded by some cases of rheumatism, and occasionally by the disease called mumps. As long as the materies morbi continues to circulate in the blood, it will ten o exci e inflammation in one part or other: the best thing that can happen is, that it should locate itself in a part where it can produce no serious effects from interference with important functions, and there remain until the dyscrasia is at an end.THE PRODUCTS AND RESULTS OP INFLAMMATION. 95 One important remark of Rokitansky must not be omitted, iviz., that even resolution does not, especially if the inflammation l has been extensive, leave the system in as favourable a condition .as before the attack, since a large quantity of liquor sanguinis, iwhich, during the stasis, has undergone certain changes, is set ffree to mingle with the general mass of the blood. This must [produce a contaminating effect until it be eliminated. Henc9 the benefit of a free action of the skin, of a free flow of urine, {purging, &c. THE PRODUCTS AND RESULTS OP INFLAMMATION. We now come to the consideration of, first, inflammatory '■exudations, an<l secondly, of the changes that take place in the ttissues affected by them. The fluid effused in inflammation is ecommonly the liquor sanguinis, more or less modified, especially ccontaining a less proportion of albumen and fibrine. An analysis bby Simon, of fluid obtained by paracentesis thoracis, shows in 11,000 parts, 934-72 of water, 1-02 of fibrine, 1-05 of fat, 48-86 of .albumen and albuminate of soda, 11-99 of extractive matter, and !|9-0o of fixed salts. The quantity of fibrine varies considerably, 'borne effusions consist chiefly of it, others contain very little; .-generally it may be said its quantity is in proportion to the vigour of the system, and the acuteness and sthenic character of the inflammation. The fibrine may coagulate quickly, or remain in :its fluid state, for a length of time, in the part where it is effused, .■mood corpuscles, or dissolved hiematine, may be mingled with the exuded matter m various proportions. Though we often speak of -serous effusions as the result of inflammations, yet the opinion expressed by Sir J. Paget is probably correct, that “an effusion of serum alone is a rare effect of inflammation, and that generally it is characteristic of only the lowest degrees of the disease.” He mentions as instances inflammatory oedema of the mucous folds above the glottis, chemosis of the conjunctiva, and some forms of hydrocephalus. The fluid obtained from blisters contains either distinct fibrinous coagula, or only a small proportion of fibrine together with multitudes of punform corpuscles Varieties of Inflammatory Products.-The chemical examination of inflammatory products is very difficult, partly in consequence Ibf the impossibility of procuring more than very small quan- Mties, partly because they can so seldom be obtained pure • tlm^vhole of our knowledge, therefore, has refer! once to the differences which are perceptible to the eye and :o the microscope in the solidified and shaped constituents of the exudation. These, however, afford very valuable mdi ■ lations for forming a judgment of the nature and tendency of .he process from which they spring; the most important differ- ences between different exudations being the greater or lossSUPPURATION. 96 proportion of cells to the other constituents. (Theories as to the origin of these cells we have already alluded to, and shall speak of again.) Thus Sir James Paget distinguishes two types of lymph, the fibrinous and corpuscular, which agree generally with what Rokitansky calls fibrinous and croupous ; the latter being that in which the cells predominate. These cells, called, at different times lymph corpuscles, exudation corpuscles, plastic corpuscles, and embryonic cells, are really identical with the corpuscles ot pus, and cannot he distinguished from the white cells of the blood. Rokitansky* remarks that, as regards the abundance of these elements, exudations form a continuous series, from one with a minimum of them, to that form Pig- 9- which is distinguished by a luxuriant production of them, and is called pus. These differ- ences have often been brought into connection with differences of bodily constitution. Sir James Pagetf found in the fluid derived from blisters in different persons very varying amounts of corpuscular elements, the number being generally in in- verse proportion to their health and strength. These variations he attributes to differences in the condition of the blood. Recent discoveries have led some rather to attribute them to variations in the facility with which blood corpuscles can leave the vessels, and these in all probability to differences in the structure of the vascular walls. This view, however, cannot explain the difference between the basis-substance of different specimens, which is made up of fibres in some and granular matter m others. Another variety of exu- dation, the haemorrhagic, is distinguished by the abundance of red corpuscles, though these, as we have seen, generally pas* out of thePvessels in small number. It has been thought that blood pigment sometimes transudes without the corpuscles, but this has not been clearly proved. Fibrinous exudation on pleura in process of absorption: areolse form in it, and reduce it to filamentous bands SUPPURATION. We have next to consider that form of ' juPr'r'nt cells preponderate enormously, and m which ten c . 1 ‘ » “ Lelirbuch dor Path. Anat.,” third edition jroh i., p. 136. * “ Lectures on Surgical Pathology, second edition, p. 262.97 SUPPURATION. •is fluid, viz., pus, which, in the words of Eokitansky (loc. cit.), has been till now separated in an unnaturally sharp manner from other exudations. There are many varieties of pus; but that which is commonly ecalled healthy (laudable) is that which we shall take for a typical (description. It appears to the naked eye as a creamy, thick, ojpaque, and homogeneous fluid; communicates an unctuous feel- img when rubbed between the fingers; is of a yellow or whity- jyellow tint; sweetish or insipid; and, while warm, gives off a poeculiar, mawkish smell. Its specific gravity is 1*030-1'033. If nillo wed to stand some time in a tall, narrow glass, the fluid sepa- rates into a thickish sediment, more or less abundant, and a super- natant serum. This serum, according to Yogel (whose account we s-bhall use freely) is identical with the serum of the blood, contain- ing one to four per cent, of albumen, extractive and saline matters, mnd fat. It coagulates when treated. The reaction is alkaline ; iraut it readily becomes acid, from the generation of an acid, which lss commonly supposed to be the lactic. A peculiar substance, nailed pyin by Giiterbock, somewhat resembling mucin, was formerly thought characteristic of this pathological product, but -s not usually found in normal pus. It is an albuminoid sub- stance, containing a larger proportion of oxygen than the true Albuminates. Chemical Constitution of Pus.—The following analysis, by Dr. Wright, exhibits the main features of the chemical constitution of : ms very well. They apply, of course, to pus as a whole, not to She serum only. The large quantity of fat in pus is remarkable, as » veil as the amount of albumen—the latter sometimes exceeding -hat contained in the liquor sanguinis. From a vomica. Water ftua-a Fatty matter Cholesterine Muons 175 ^ 54 1 11*2 685 | 97 Albumen Lactates,carbonates,sul- phates and phosphates of soda, potash and lime Iron A trace. 3-3 Loss From Psoas Abscess. .... 8b5'2 2S-8 61 637 13 5 27 From Mammary abscess. 879 4 26'5 83-6 89 16 The following analyses are from German sources Water Pug-cells and mucus .... Albumen Extractive matter Cholesterine and fat .... Salts Sodium Chloride Other alkaline Balts .... i^rthy phosphates & iron { Bibra. I. IL ITT. 907 .... 862 .... 769 63 91 .... 180 21 9 .... 29 19 .... 12 . .. 21 6 f- .... , 9 .... 1- — ;;;; l_ :::: i_ Bodkker. 887'« 46 5 43 8 109 5-9 3 2 2*18UPPTJH ATION. 98 Serum of Pus.—The serum resembles blood serum in most of its properties. It contains paraglobulin, or fibrino-plastic substance; albuminate of potash (which is identical with casein), and by coagu- lating at about 75° C., shows that it contains ordinary serum albu- men. It also contains, according to Hoppe, myosin. The following substances have also been detected in pus, but cannot be retened Fig. 10. © © © © © ® ® Corpuscles from a pustule. d seme tion^globSes, their nuclei brought into view by the action of water. specially to the serum or corpusclesProtagon, chondnne, and gelatine; various fatty substances, as cholesterine free fatty fcids soaps (alkaline salts of fatty acids), leucm tyrosm, and xanthin (nitrogenous derivatives of the albuminates). Occasion.il or abnormal constituents are bile acids and bile pigment (in kundfceUndsugar (in diabetes). Under certarn circumstances pus Iss™ a blue colour, which will also affect the bandages used for wounds. This has been shown to depend upon the presence of a peculiar vibrio which lives on the surfaces of wounds and the bandages. The colouring matter can, however, be separated and obUined in blue crystals ; it is called Pyocyamn. The ash of pus amounts to five or six per cent,, and has a similar composition to the ash of blood; but the ash of the serum aloue contains more sodium chloride than that of blood serum (seventy-two per cent.), and also more potassium.99 SUPPURATION. Corpuscles of Pus.—The sediment consists almost entirely of small organized bodies, the well-known pus-corpuscles, or pus- cells. These are, when dead, of spherical form, about inch in diameter, formed of a mass of soft granulous substance, en- closing a varying number of nuclei, about inch in diameter. These are, in well-formed pus cells, for the most part con- cealed by the surrounding substance; but in some cells, even of healthy pus, and in all those of pus of an inferior kind, they are easily perceptible, even without the aid of acetic acid. Occasionally a single nucleus exists; but more commonly it is made up of two, three, four, or even five large granules. The single nuclei are always the largest, and it is generally held that the multiple nuclei are formed by a process of division from the single nucleus. When seen in the living state the form of pus-corpuscles is eminently variable; they show the amoeboid movements and changes of form characteristic of masses of living protoplasm, and may be seen continually to push out and retract prolongations of their substance. Molecular movements may also be seen in their interior, like those in salivary corpuscles. The amoeboid movements are said by Recklinghausen to be the more active, the more recent and severe the inflammation. They : may be seen m pus from granulating surfaces, from inflamed mucous membranes, pustules, &c., if it be slightly diluted with a hall per cent, solution of sodium chloride, or better, with • fomenatural serous fluid. The movements are stopped by concen- trated saline solutions, by water, and by the pressure of a cover , glass, or instantly by exposure to a high temperature. They I gradually cease in a cold atmosphere, but may, up to a certain time, be restored by heat. Most cells, from large collections of pus, are, however, already dead, and show no spontaneous move- ments. ihey often show also a sort of envelope or cell wall, ormed by coagulation of the protoplasm, but a' single pus-cell F/rSa8 r »UG’ be distinguished from a lymph or white blood-cell. Mec\ of Reagents on the Corpuscles.-When already dead and |ho Pus globule is not very remarkably affected by !nh»°-P i d ? ''’ater- I* becomes somewhat swollen, and more W t i! nucleus becomes somewhat more apparent, bnL T m destroyed and burst so rapidly as the blood glo- bule. In blood, urine mucus, saliva, it is unaltered. Acetic aud renders the granu ous contents translucent, and brings out he nucleus more definitely. It renders the envelope alsfmoie transparent but does not destroy it. Other dilute acids have a similar effect. Caustic and carbonated alkalies, and borax convert the whole corpuscle into a viscid mass, leaving only very minute daik molecules, whose import is uncertain. Pus, Dr. Walshe savs JJeSra remarkable power of resisting decomposition. At the end of months some corpuscles may still bo found unchanged among others that are dissolved. It oven retards the putrefaction of substances which are placed in it; but at tho same time seemstoo SUPPURATION. * Virchow’8 “ Ai’chiv,” vol. xv. to exert upon them a corrosive influence. Pieces of flesh put into fresh pus gradually lost weight, and were at last dissolved, with- out any evidence of putrefaction having occurred. Under similar circumstances Recklinghausen found that pieces of coagulated albu- men became infiltrated with pus-cells, which had penetrated their substance. Mr. H. Lee has shown that pus possesses a remarkable power of accelerating the coagulation of blood. In one experiment the blood, which had pus (healthy) added to it, coagulated in six minutes; while that which was left by itself required twelve. This is probably due to the paraglobulin or fibrmo-plastic sub- stance which has been found in the serum of pus, and which reacts with the superabundant fibrinogenous _ substance of the blood serum. Much weight has been laid on this property of pus, in relation to the theory of pyremia. . . „ Formation of Pus Corpuscles.—With respect to the origin of pus corpuscles there is the same difference of opinion as exists about the corpuscles of inflammatory lymph already spoken of; and there can be no doubt that the explanation of the one will also be the explanation of the other. It was at one time pretty generally held that pus-corpuscles were formed in a fluid blastema, by the process of “free cell formation,” either by the grouping of granules or by the growth and enlargement of minute granular Mobules. In'some cases also it was held, from a solid blas- tema of coagulated fibriue, by the liquefaction of the solid fibrine and the multiplication of the corpuscles (which when very numerous, are called pus-corpuscles); or by a similar process numerous, mo taucu -n, from granulation tissue; so that, m Pagets words. the cells Irom granuiauon ti&ouo , of PUS from wounds are ill-developed or degenerate granulation cells-” and “the most frequent degeneration of inflammatory lymph is into pus.” In distinction to all these views came the comprehensive generalization of the Cellular Pathology, whic uniting in one scheme the cells of ordinary inflammatory lymph, of granulations, and of pus, regarded them all as derivatives of the cells or nuclei of the tissues. At first the power of producing new cells was supposed to be limited to the connective tissue, but it was afterwards shown that it must, on the same grounds, be ascribed also to epithelial structures. This theory was for a long time accepted universally in Germany and by many pathologists this country and in France; but it has since the researches of Cohnheim, Already mentioned, undergone much and there are probably few observers who do not admit that many at least of the pus-corpuscles are nothing but emigrant blood ce s. Without entering much into details, we must look for a rnomui at the explanation given of these two theories of suppuration in solid organs or abscess, and suppuration on mucous surfaces. Abscess.—The changes of tissue elements,in the fo abscess, or in purulent infiltration, were studie vi ■ minuteness by Weber, in 1858.* Ho found in all the surroundingSUPPTTBATION. 101 parts those appearances which are regarded as indicating proli- feration of the tissue elements; such as cells with several nuclei, groups of cells occupying the place of one; cells within others; and so on. These appearances were principally seen in the con- nective tissue corpuscles, but also in the nuclei of the sarcolemma of muscular tissue ; the neurilemma of nerves, and the various supporting structures of glandular organs; and in addition, as pointed out by other observers, the nuclei of the blood-vessels. In consequence of these processes the interstices of organs become filled with young cells, which are in fact pus-cells, and the result is purulent infiltration. Simultaneously with the changes already described the non-cellular or inter-cellular part of the tissues undergoes important changes. The albuminous constituents become in part replaced by fat, the solid parts soften and liquefy; the whole passes through degenerative changes, ending in destruc- tion ; so that in place of the normal tissue there is a collection of newly formed pus-cells, in fact an abscess. What the cause of this destruction of tissue is, whether it is due to pressure of the newly formed cells, to some peculiar solvent action, or to simple .interference with normal nutrition, is not certainly known. But it is plain that these destructive properties, whatever they are, must cause an abscess, once formed, to increase in the manner in which we know that it does. On the migration theory of Cohnheim the collections of pus-cells are of course regarded as escaped leucocytes, which will tend to move into places already occupied by collections of pus, because this will be, on account of the destruction of the tissue, the direction of least resistance. In the same way, by the active locomotive properties of pus-cells, is explained the possibility of drawing an abscess to the surface (by poultices, &c.); the application of moist heat rendering the tissues more permeable to active elements. The enlargement of an abscess once formed is explicable on the same grounds ; and also through its wall (the pyogenic membrane) being, according to Burdon Sanderson, a structure which facili- tates the extrusion of leucocytes. Suppuration on Mucous Surfaces.—The production of pus on surfaces covered with epithelium was first explained by Virchow as proli- feration from the sub-mucous connective tissue, the newly formed elements making their way to the surface through the epithelium. Susequently it was shown that new elements might also be pro- duced from the epithelial cells, the same changes indicative of proliferation being observed in these as are observed in connective tissue corpuscles. The fact that cells, resembling pus-corpuscles are seen within epithelial cells cannot be doubted, though it is other- wise explained on the theory of Cohnheim. According to this ob- serve! the epithelial elements, like those of the connective tissue are perfectly passive; all the new formed cells are emigrants from th9 vessels, and make their way through the superjacent tissues to the surface, borne of these penetrating into the substance of the8UPPTTK ATI ON. 102 epithelial cells appear as if they had originated there. This ex- planation is supported by the most recent observers, among whom may be mentioned Bizzozero.* In suppuration of serous membranes it has been asserted, and also denied that the pus-cells arise from proliferation of the serous epithelial cells (or endothelia). The same is true of the connective tissue cells. Fig. 11 Glomeruli and granular cells. 1 From ovarian cyst. 2, From cancer of breast. 3, From inflamed lung. 4, From inflamed pia mater. 5, From a case of tuberculous meningitis. The opaque cells are the glomeruli, the more simply granulous are the granular cells. In the nervous centres the origin of pu3-cells has been referred to the elements of the neuroglia, or connective tissue stroma. In glandular organs they have been traced both to the glandular secreting cells and to the fibrous stroma. Tn connective tissue structures, such as cartilage, bone, tendon, their proper cells, and in the cornea the branched corneal corpuscles have had the same function assigned them. In the skin suppu- ration has been referred both to the deep layers of the epidermis and to the connective tissue of the true skin. Other Constituents of Pus.—The formed elements contained in pus, beside pus-cells, are free nuclei, derived from the disinte- gration of cells, red blood-corpuscles, and often what are called glomeruli or granule-cells. There are also many fatty molecules. The granule-cell, exudation globule, or glomerulus, which was first described by Gluge, and called by him the compound in- flammatory globule, is very frequently present in exudation, and is, speaking generally, a valuable sign of the existence of the inflammatory process, but not an infallible one. The granule-cell is usually of large size, from — iron mostly spherical, but often oblong, or of irregular shape. By transmitted light they • Strieker’s “ Meclizimscke JiUirlttcher,” 1ST2.SUPPURATION. 103 appear dark, on account of their opacity; by direct, of a dead white. Their structure will be best understood from an account of their development. It is now generally admitted that, as first shown by Reinhardt, granulous cells or glomeruli are the result of the transformation of other cells, either of normal or pathological formation. For instance, the cells of ordinary epithelium, and normal elements of the brain (probably those of the neuroglia), may undergo this change as well as mucus or pus-corpuscles, and the cells of any new growth, as cancer. The process consists, there is no doubt, in the formation of fatty molecules within the cell-protoplasm, and the gradual replacement of its albuminous by fatty material. This process is usually described as one of degeneration, and it is often induced by failure of nutrition, but recent observations on the early stages of inflammation in the brain (Strieker) show that deposition of fat must play some important part in the formation also of new elements. It is to be remarked, in conclusion, that a very abundant cell-growth commonly takes place in exudations, many particles of which are correctly denominated granular cells! These are not to be mistaken in descriptions for the granule-cells, into which they often undergo metamorphosis. The similarity of the name is unfortunate, but the subjoined sketch will make the i distinction between the two very apparent. Moreover the granules contained in living cells (leucocytes, &c.) are in a great measure of albuminous composition, and dissolve in acetic acid, by which fatty granules are unaltered. The formation of granule-cells (glomeruli) in an exudation is a much less serious matter than the formation of pus. Inflamed lungs may contain myriads of the : former and recover well, far better than if they were infiltrated ! ' with pus. Varieties and Degenerations of Pus.— In various unhealthy states of the system pus is formed, which differs in several respects irom that which we have now described. Small fibrinous flakes epithelial particles, cholesterine scales, and prisms of triple phos- phate may be mingled with it, as well as varying quantities of free oil. The pus-globules are in such cases often ill-shaped feebly formed, conveying the idea of very defective formative power , the quantity of granular matter mingled with them is much increased. Ia Certain unhealthy kinds of pus, which Rokitansky comprises under the term (Jauche) sanies, are especially distinguished bv their corrosive action upon the tissues, which he contrasts m/ ticularly with the bland quality of healthy pus. Their appearance is not at all constan tly different from that of the normal fluid but they are apt to bo thinner more tinged by hiematine, of an o’ffen ■ eive or ammoniacal smell, and to communicate a sensation of pricking or itching to the finger when applied to them Their corpuscles are s unted, and their developments aro variouslv alteied, apparently by the “gnawing” action of the serum m104 STJrrUEATION. which they float. It seems to us very questionable, whether the dissolving action which pus is said to exert on pieces of dead flesh belongs at all to it in a healthy and fresh state, and whether it does not really depend on the generation of acids within itself, in consequence of decomposition. Purulent effusions may degenerate into a semi-fluid amorphous mass, the corpuscles breaking up, and the serum undergoing chemical changes, often of a putrefactive kind. They may also undergo fatty degeneration, calcareous salts being liberated or deposited at the same time. Either of these two changes being premised, it is possible that a purulent collection may he absorbed, but it is only too probable that in the former case the result will be a fatal contamination of the blood by the decomposing matters taken up into it. Apparent temporary ab- sorption may be easily produced by means which, creating a considerable demand for fluid, withdraw the serum from the pus- corpuscles ; hut as these retain their vitality, they soon attract a fresh quantity of blastema from the blood, and the abscess remains undiminished. This persistent vitality of the organized corpuscles of a fluid which is regarded as effete in the highest degree, and incapable of any further development, is certainly remarkable; one would rather have expected that they would have disintegrated rapidly. Distinction of Pus.—Pus may he confounded with some other fluid, and the distinction is sometimes only to he made out by careful microscopical examination. What we have said respecting softened blood-clot, will show that a fluid having this origin may approach very closely to the purulent product of inflammation, so much so, that it may he doubted whether it be not in part identical with it. Since, as has been said, a single pus-corpuscle has nothing distinctive about it, the character of pus can only be given by the immense number and preponderance of such elements. Pus, when mixed with a fluid such as urine, may sometimes be distin- guished from other substances containing similar corpuscles, as mucus, by the great abundance of fatty matter. Prom epithelial detritus and the broken-down contents of hydatid cysts the micro- scope readily distinguishes it. Mucus.—The last inflammatory product which we have to notice is mucus. Speaking correctly, it is only unhealthy mucus which comes under this head: for it is perfectly clear that several inter- nal membranes secrete a mucous fluid. The distinction between this and the morbid product is tolerably precise, and easy to he ascertained. The former is a tenacious, clear fluid, containing only some admixture of the epithelium of the membrane produc- ing it, and having no special corpuscles of its own. The latter is loaded with corpuscles, identical with those of pus, together with a varying quantity of epithelial debris. Between such mucus and pus it is evident that a close analogy subsists. Mucus may be dis- tinguished, like pus, into a fluid, the liquor mud, and corpuscles. The liquor muci, as we find it in the secretion of a membrane105 GRANULATIONS. •which has been subjected to moderate irritation, is a transparent, tenacious, more or less stringy fluid, of alkaline reaction, and more or less saline taste. The addition of acetic acid, or any -weak acid, produces a kind of coagulation, and the formation of a granu- lar precipitate, which Simon states is the mucine, the principal constituent of the fluid. It is insoluble in excess of acetic acid, which distinguishes it from albuminous substances. This is held in solution by means of an alkali, and consequently falls on the latter being taken up by an acid. Not much is known of this substance, except that it is a protein compound. Albumen or fibrine, treated with liquor potasses, forms a transparent, viscous mass, having much resemblance to its solution. The proper cor- puscles of morbid mucus are, as we are fully persuaded, and as the best observers state, quite identical with those of pus. They are usually mingled with epithelial particles, in very various stages of their formation, from a simple nucleus up to a complete cell. It is only in cases of prolonged and rather intense inflammation that traces of epithelium are wanting, and the so-called mucous cor- puscles are crowded together, and seem to load the fluid. It is Fig. 12. Separate corpuscles, and two blood globules. often very observable how the tenacious fluid, in which the cor- puscles are entangled, in consequence of being dragged in one direction, produces an alteration of their shape ; they thus become oval, or even staff-shaped. Granulous and oily matter is com- monly diffused through the liquor muci, just as it is through that of pus. It is manifest from what has been stated, that the difference between mucus and pus consists essentially in the different nature of the fluids, not in that of their corpuscles. The old question, as to the means of distinguishing between pus and mucus, is manifestly of little moment, and has, in general no interest for tho practical physician. It is sufficient to state that the liquor puris is albuminous, the liquor muci not so • that pus will mix with water, and mucus will not; that pus i’s dis- solved, in some measure, by acetic acid, while mucus is coagulated- and that mucus generally contains traces of epithelium, while pus does not; while pus contains a very much larger quantity of fat Inflammatory New Growth. Granulations. — The products ' ofGRANULATIONS. 106 inflammation already described are “effete,” andserving no purpose in the organism are cast out of it; but inflammation also gives rise to a new growth which plays an important part in repair and healing of injuries, though itself transitory, and becoming always changed into something more highly organized. This is granula- tion tissue, which may be defined as a new growth proceeding from a wounded tissue, or from some part exposed by ulceration, and growing either on the external surface or within a cavity. The so-called granulations are characterized by a red colour, granular surface, and soft texture, and are very easily wounded. They are out-growths of the normal tissues, being continuous with them at the margin or base ; while their connective tissue stroma and their blood-vessels are developments of the corresponding normal struc- tures, and their cells formed by proliferation from normal cells. Granulations consist of blood-vessels, connective tissue, spindle- shaped or fibro-plastic cells, and round indifferent or embryonic cells. The characteristic cells are those called embryonic, since they resemble those of which immature organs in the embryo are composed. They are roundish, pretty uniform in size, from -j-gVo to i.- inch, granular, and resemble generally those white blood cells5 which have a single nucleus. They differ from pus-cells chiefly in the nucleus. These cells are not absolutely in contact, but arranged with some intercellular substance, and a distinct stroma, so that the structure resembles that of a lymphatic gland, or what is called adenoid. There are also transitional forms’ between these and the spindle-shaped cells, which compose an immature connective tissue. There are also apparently tianai- tional forms between the embryonic and epithelial cells, so that the embryonic tissue is of an indefinite type, which may be developed into other more special tissues. On the other hand, the granulation cells are sometimes not individually to be distinguished from pus-cells; and on the surface of ordinary granulations it appears as if many cells of the solid mass were constantly undergoing a retrograde change, and becoming con- verted into detached pus-cells. Granulations are nchly supplied with blood-vessels, the walls of which are formed of spindle-shaped fibro-plastic cells (see Fig. 13), and are easily ruptured which explains the well-known readiness of granulating surfaces to bleed. As the granulations grow, a new formation of vessels constantly takes place, apparently by out-growths from those already formed. The surface is always covered, more or less, with a greyish film of pus. This appears to be more or less copious as the growth tends rather to degenerative or to formative changes, the indifferent embryonic cells being capable of degradation in o pus ce s elevation into connective tissue elements. It is not certain th. t epithelial elements are ever formed from granulation tissue such as that here described; they being, as some think, never formed but from pre-existing epithelium. It is also possible that the pu»- cells occurring on the surface of granulations may have merelyGRANULATIONS. 107 escaped from the blood, the walls of the vessels, from their simple -structure, favouring the escape of these elements. On the other hand, lit is not certain that some at least of the true granulation cells are . not escaped blood-cells. But no direct observations have been made on either of these points. Granulations, if healthy, tend to form connective tissue, which is of the kind called cicatricial, and is •seldom very perfect, having a tendency to contract. This may, it Fig. 13. a Section through the margin of a granulating surface in process of healing. u. Production of pus. b, Granulation tissue with loops of blood vessels, the walls of ' *hlch are composed of layers of cells, c, Commencement of the formation of eicatri- tissue containing elongated or fibro plastic cells, d, Completed epithelium , Young epithelial cells. (After Rindfleisch.) • s thought, become organized into higher grades of tissue ; but the point is not quite clear. With regard to epithelium, it is not :ertain that this is ever formed from granulations ; it is possible that it always arises from pre-existing epithelium. When “un- healthy,” they tond to suppuration, and this must be regarded ■as a degeneration. Granulations, in fine, are the characteristic product of a productive or reconstructive inflammation, as nus is of a degenerative. 1108 CHANGES IN INFLAMED PARTS. Changes in the Inflamed Parts.—We enumerate these as—(1) Enlargement; (2) Atrophy; (3) Ulceration; (4) Gangrene. The term “enlargement” is preferable to that of “hypertrophy,” which is sometimes employed, because it conveys no such erro- neous idea as that the part is truly increased in size by addition of more of its own proper substance, an occurrence which most rarely, if ever, is the result of any form of inflammation. The enlargement depends entirely on the infiltration of the tissue with some form of exudation-matter, which subsequently undergoesti metamorphoses such as we have described, and is more or less completely absorbed. It often happens, however, that a part remains behind, and is converted into a low form of fibroid.tissue, consisting of dense fibrous stroma, with many nuclei. This con- stitutes induration-matter, which resembles very much that which forms cicatrices ; like which its tendency is to contract and shrink, thus compressing and obliterating the vessels of the part, and m this way, as well as by its pressure, inducing.the atrophy of the tissues among which it is deposited. A good instance of primary enlargement and subsequent atrophy, resulting from inflamma- tion, is afforded by some cases of cirrhosis of the liver. Other instances of enlargement are the thickening of bones, as a con- sequence of periostitis, and thickening of the skin m chronic eczema. Serous membranes also, are commonly thickened and complicated with fibrous adhesions, in consequence of attacks of inflammation. , ., , Atrophy, the result of inflammation, is described by KokitansKy as depending upon the mechanical injury done to the tissues m the seat of inflammation by the exudation, as well as upon their being deprived by it of their proper amount of nutrition. Being thus rendered unfit for the discharge of their function, they fall to pieces, and are absorbed, together with the exudation. “ ims occurs with especial frequency in delicate, lacerable tissues, when large quantities of exudation have been effused, and such as are solid and capable only of slow reabsorption. Thus, m the inflam- matory foci the substance of the brain, of the muscles, ot the kidneys, &c., becomes lost, while there remains in its place one or more gaps, limited by cicatrix-tissue, which, if such gaps are small and numerous, causes a spongy, rarefied condition ot the tissue. Under the head of Atrophy we may include softening, which is a very usual result of inflammation, and declares, as its other phenomena do, its destructive nature. Hard bones, when inflamed, can be cut with a knife, inextensible ligaments yield and stretch, muscular walls of hollow organs are paralyzed, and dilatation takes 1 Ulceration implies that condition of a part in which more or less of its proper substance has become eroded, and has isappeare . consequence of unhealthy action, so that a cavity remains, term especially applies to epidermic and epithelial structur . condition does not most commonly exist alone, but together109 ULCEKATION. ■■ 11 greater or less amount of exudative and organizing processes. L'hese are so far from being essential to it, that they constitute, in .iact, the means by which its ravages are repaired; the formation 'iif granulations, and the effusions'of pus, are the characters, not of am extending, but of a healing ulcer. Instances of pure and simple iiilceration are to be seen in the cornea, and in some ulcers of the rvalls of the stomach; they penetrate the tissue more or less Itleeply, so as sometimes to perforate it, without any surrounding ; thickening from the deposition of the lymph. In ulcers of the : ititomach, doubtless the corrosive action of the gastric fluid plays a ■ joart. When the erosion of the tissue goes on rapidly and exten- r r.vively, forming a sore, with very irregular surfaces and margins, mnd presenting no trace of reparative action, the ulceration is said . :,o be phagedenic. Many other varieties of ulcers are mentioned, ?out they all have reference to the amount and character of the , exudative and reparative processes taking place ; and though they afford excellent indications of the condition of the general system, which are well worth studying, they are not to be regarded as ! containing anything special in the nature of the ulceration itself. ! .Rokitansky considers that the main circumstance determining ulceration, is the corrosive quality of the exudation, the ichor! We agree with Sir J. Paget, in doubting the correctness of this, as n general statement; it is much more probable that, in consequence “bf altered and defective nutrition, the tissue gradually deliquesces 'sso to speak) into a fluid, the cellular elements undergoing rapid uatty degeneration and decay. Commonly also the new products t formed are themselves involved in the destructive process. Thus ion tubercular and typhoid ulcerations of the intestines the process commences with the formation of a mass of new growth under the : mucous surface. This causes absorption and destruction of the napithelium covering it, and thus an ulcer is formed, which is extended by the ejection of the newly formed mass. It is a matter of some dispute whether the tissue, as it decays rand is destroyed, is removed by absorption, or is cast off from the broken surface. Sir J. Paget inclines to the opinion that it is ejected, resting upon the analogy of excreting surfaces, on the dis- covery of fragments of bone and phosphate of lime in ulcers of ■osseous structures, and on direct observation of the commencement :of ulcers. We are also inclined to think that the process of removal is rather by ejection than by absorption, especially in the case of open ulcers, yet so that some amount of absorption also takes place, varying in degree in different cases, and probably even predominating in those where there is no external outlet Ihe formation of ulcerations on the surface of the cervix uteri has appeared to us to take place in the following wav much •as it is described by Dr. Baly on the intestinal surfaceAs the first step in the situation of a spot of hypereemia, a minute vesicle 18 formed, the epithelial layer being lifted up by effused fluid whilo the tissue boneath is softened, loosened up, and appearsGANGRENE. 110 less dense than natural. Afterwards the covering of the vesicle is detached, the fluid escapes, and the tissue beneath, appears still more lax and spongy, and has evidently undergone loss of substance. The hypereemia persists. In this case we feel little doubt that the deliquescing tissue is partly thrown off in the fluid which escapes from the vesicle, partly absorbed by the blood- vessels. _ _ . It seems desirable to indicate the difference which exists between, ulceration and absorption. In both there may he considerable loss of substance at some one or more points of the part affected, but in ulceration there is always an unhealthy state of the nutrition of the tissue, there is disease of it; in absorption this is not the case; the part may be diminished, but cannot be said to be diseased. Contrast a bone, carious and ulcerated from inflammation, with one which has undergone absorption, in consequence of the pressure of an aneurism. . Gangrene.—The last result of inflammation which we have to mention is Gangrene, or Mortification. This, indeed, is not a very common termination, nor is it at all peculiar to the inflammatory process. It more really belongs to a deficient condition of vital power induced by various causes, which may of itself be the cause of the death of some part, or render it so feeble that it perishes under injurious influences which would otherwise have had no such effect. Gangrene may ensue from the following causes. (1 ft om an absolute and prolonged stagnation of the blood; (2) from a defective supply of blood; (3) from a general taint or unhealthy crasis of the mass of the blood; (4) from a local injury. The absolute stagnation of the blood in the first case may be the result of violent inflammation, especially of an asthenic kind, and occur- ring in debilitated systems and organs; or it may be brought about mechanically, as when a portion of intestine is strangulated. Bokitansky says, that in this case the blood stagnant m the vessels first undergoes gangrenous decomposition, and that exuding through their walls in the state of gangrenous ichor, it sets up the same decomposing change in the surrounding tissues, which break up into a dark-coloured pulp, of as little consistence as tinder—diffluent, and excessively stinking. In the second case, besides various kinds of obstruction of the arteries from excemal pressure, their channels may be blocked up by extensive fibrinous coagula, either forming spontaneously or inconsequence of disease of the coats of the vessels. They may again be plugged by blocks (embuli) transported from a distance. Gangrene occurring m aged persons, without any apparent cause, and that fioni t t use o s eased grain and hospital gangrene, are instances m which the mor bid action is dependent on a general taint of the blood, or ecay 0 whole system. Mr. Simon suggests that the mode m which ergot of rye produces its fatal effect may be by causing such contraction ot tho blood-vessels as prevents the flow of blood into the more * ' parts, which consequently fall into the condition ot di) gangrenPYEMIA AND SEPTICAEMIA. Ill 'Spontaneous gangrene in old persons, or others, in which after j jdeath no obstruction of the blood-vessels is found, can only depend on an actual and premature loss of vitality in the part affected, the t tissues of which are no longer able to carry on the actions of vital 1. chemistry, and yield to those of inorganic, i.e., decompose, before : the death of the system has actually occurred. In gangrene from I local violence, or from frost-bite, &c., the vitality of the tissues of tthe part is destroyed by the injury done to them. The general ccharacteristic of gangrene in all these cases is the failure of vital aaction; decay and death in the tissues, intense inflammation, aabsence of blood-supply, a poison circulating in its current, senile ddecrepitude, a fearful laceration, may all have the effect of dissolving :the vital affinities which hold together the elements composing the ccomplex substances of our organism, and allowing them to fall lhack, as they naturally do, into the simpler compounds of inorganic c chemistry. Gangrenous parts which are exposed to the air are i eessentially putrescent, and contain both the usual chemical pro- c ducts of putrefactive fermentation and the organisms (Bacteria) i vwhich accompany or cause this process. Varieties of Gangrene.—The distinctions of dry and moist gan- cgrene, of black and white, of inflammatory and cold, have reference vvery much to the state of the affected part, with regard to the supply of blood. If the gangrene have its origin in inflammation, there will be a considerable quantity of fluid ichor effused, and the colour of tthe part will be of a deep red, or almost black. On the contrary, if tthe gangrene depend on deprivation of the supply of blood, the part ''will be more dry, and of a pale colour. Sometimes, especially ifrom the effect of ergot of rye, a limb dries and shrinks up, becomes mummified, as it is said, with little change in colour. !A black colour is, however, often observed in parts affected by gangrena senilis; this, no doubt, depends on alteration of the blood an the vessels, though there is often no hypersemia. Soft tissues are more liable to mortify than such as are of a firmer consistence, bones, elastic and fibrous tissues resist longer than muscle and mucous membranes; the large vessels and nerves are sometimes - seen completely exposed by the ravages of hospital gangrene, all the tissues being removed from around them. The constitutional disturbance which often supervenes on gan- grene is easily to be accounted for by the absorption of decom- posing matters into the blood, which act as a virus upon it, and render it unfit to maintain healthy action. PYAEMIA AND SEPTICAEMIA. These conditions or diseases, as thoy are among the results, though only occasional ones, of inflammation, may very properly’be con- sidered here. The name Pytomia was originally intended to mean (,as it does etymologically) the presence of pus in the blood • and it112 PYAEMIA AND SEPTICAiHIA. was supposed that under certain circumstances, when suppuration occurred in one part of the body, pus made its way into the veins, and was thus distributed to various other parts, where it was deposited; hence the familiar surgical term “ secondary deposits. It is not now believed that actual pus enters the veins, but in discussing the subject it is almost necessary to assume that some morbid poison, whether derived from inflammation or not, does enter the blood. We shall therefore endeavour to explain the morbid lesions on this hypothesis, and afterwards show what evidence can be given as to the existence and nature of this poison. The phenomena most frequently observed m pycemia are somewhat as follows '—A man has received an injury, or undergone some surgical operation; it may be an amputation, or that tor fistula in ano • for a time all proceeds well, but soon shivenngs come on, with adynamic fever and oppression; he emaciates, pain or disorder shows itself in some internal viscus, and m a few days he dies in a state of stupor or delirium. Often the discharge ot pus fif there have been any) from the original wound stops, granula- tions cease to grow, and it becomes what surgeons call unhealthy. The blood often contains an excess of leucocytes. On opening the body the blood is sometimes found abnormally fluid ; but this is not constant: there are abscesses, more or less numerous, com- monly in the lungs, and often in the liver, or other parts ; there is freauently purulent inflammation of the joints or serous mem- branes and often ecchymosis on the latter. Pyaemia may occur without any external wound, and then often assumes a^ chronic form. Many cases of “ Puerperal Pever also fall under the same ^Experimental Evidence.-The original view of the origin of pyaemia wal supposed to be confirmed by some ot the earlier experiments. Cruveilhier, for instance, injected mercury into veins, and found that small abscesses were formed m the next set ot capillaries sup- plied by the veins ; either in the lung, if the mercury was in- fected into veins of the general system ; or m the liver, if into veins JT+hfi nnrtal svstem. A small globule ot mercury was found hx the centre of each of these abscesses, showing that this had excited inflammation, passing into suppuration noout lfreli m Se part where it was deposited. The pus-globule was supposed to i„ the same direction, by injecting pus itself, asf a „r other.,ibices, “Stlybe'thu. summarized: (1) The true inflammations, not deposits ot pus. (2) lhe staiting 1PYAEMIA AND SEPTICAEMIA. 113 in their production is the obstruction of the capillaries by some • substance which (like Cruveilhier’s mercury globule) causes local inflammation. (3) This substance is transferred from the seat of primary inflammation to those of secondary inflammation. It is, however, quite certainly not pus. Classification of Experimental Results.—The experiments which most concern us here maybe arranged under three heads:—(1) Injection of pus into the veins or subcutaneous tissue ; (2) injec- tion of liquids containing septic or other supposed poisonous sub- stances; (3) introduction into the veins of small solid masses or ' powders of various kinds. (1) Injections of pus produced very dis- cordant results, till it was seen that the effects of liquid constituents :and of any solid particles which the pus may contain are very diffe- rent. Hence the later experimenters have carefully distinguished I the effects of filtered pus or simple pus-serum from that of the un- filtered liquid. In the former case there is one constant symptom, viz., fever, or rise of the body temperature,* but metastatio ’abscesses do not occur, and perfect recovery may take place. The injection of pus containing solid masses or flocculi was found (especially by 0. Weber) to cause, first, obstruction of the capillary circulation in parts of the lung (capillai’y embolisms), and finally the formation of abscesses in the parts thus affected. (2) The injec- tion into the veins of various fluids derived from gangrenous inflam- imations, infusions of putrid matters, putrid pus, &c., if carefully : filtered, has never caused the production of actual abscesses in ‘ the lungs, though it has caused local disturbances of circulation, l ecchymoses (Savory), and various constitutional symptoms with • which we are not now concerned. (3) Introducing small solid •' masses into the veins has the unavoidable result of causing ob- - structions of circulation (be., arterial or capillary embolisms) with the results described in another part of this work.f and if the [ substances introduced are non-irritating (wax, india-rubber, &c.) | nothing more. But if substances are used which mechanically wound and injure the vessels, as fragments of elder pith (Virchow) I or charcoal, inflammation is produced, the point of obstruction I sometimes leading to abscess. Chemically irritating substances, I - as mercury (Cruveilhier and Panum), produce still more marked j inflammation, leading to abscess; and the most intense suppura- f tion of this kind is produced by putrid or decomposing clots. | Extremely fine powders produce cajfillary obstruction, but if they I are non-irritating no further result ensues (Savory) than the r ordinary results of capillary embolism elsewhere described (viz., infarction and haemorrhage). It is clear then that the super- addition of inflammation to capillary obstruction depends not on O. . evidence on this point is too clear and unanimous to be entirely invalidated by am r® <liscoverV t.luit the injection of ««// liquid, for instance water or even the animal "own blood into the veins, has some effect in causing a rise of temperature. T 0,:e Embolism,”in chapter on “ The Organs of Circulation.” I114 PYEMIA AND SEPTICEMIA. tlie fineness of the obstructing substance, but on its Dature, •whether capable of exciting infiammation or not. Theory of Pycemic Abscesses.—From the experimental results before stated has been deduced the theory of the origin of Pycemic abscesses, now generally adopted, at least, as regards the lung*-- viz., the embolic theory. It is this: that some solid matters capable of exciting inflammation pass from the veins of the part primarily inflamed into the pulmonary artery, and there produce arterial or capillary embohsm, followed by inflammation and abscess, brnular, but not identical processes, lead to suppuration in other parts. The morbific material is believed to be disintegrated fibrin derived from the breaking down of clots in the veins of the affected part. that is, from thrombosis. , , ,, rt This is, however, not to be taken as a complete theory of PVEemia. It simply explains the occurrence of disease at particular parts of the body, and in a particular order, by the distribution of morbid material; but does not tell us what the disease is, or what is its materies morbi. We shall now apply this theory to the explanation of the most striking points in the morbid anatomy ot VY characteristic Lesions.— The lesions which characterize pyaemia are, in Dr. Bnstowe’s words, “local congestions, extravasations ot blood, inflammatory deposits, abscesses, and necroses. Congestion is a real and important link m the chain of pysemic e™nts; extra- vasations of blood are almost always found, either as peteclual spois or as infiltrations in the substance of organs forming blocks or in- farctions ; inflammation is never absent and true abscesses hardly ever • though some of what are called abscesses should be regarded al more strictly due to necrosis. The appearances m the lungs are the most important. Here we find (1) blocks which m their early sta°-e much resemble haemorrhagic infarctions, and are some- times actually apoplectic; (2) sometimes merely inflammatory masses or blocks of lobular pneumonia. Both these seem liable to soften and break down, forming abscesses or nuriform fluid; but the latter very often consisting of debris ol tissue oily particles, and disintegrating cell forms, without any true pus. The hemorrhagic blocks may also be seen m staves of involution, decolorized and softened, so as to forn The outer part ot hbM audsou;. »r- rounding tissue is always, m both lands of blocks^ gested and inflamed. This appearance of a surrounded by a zone of intense hyperemia, is very characterise of pyemic blocks ; the pleura covering them mialso i The cavities thus formed may come to b° 8ome abscesses may occasionally be formed (as i * universal, more rapid process; but the occurrence of P important and can hardly be called very common. Another ^ mg point is the condition of the pulmonary vessels ^ ultimate arterial twigs distributed to the masses of diseased luuc struc115 PREMIA AND SEPTICAEMIA. ■ seem to be invariably occupied, indeed distended by a soft pulpy y yellowish material, or by something more like ordinary coagulum, consisting merely of disintegrated fibrine, with debris only of cells.” Similar coagula have been found in small vessels leading - - Q : to diseased patches in other organs. Sometimes a comparatively li large arterial branch is found blocked with similar material; and . a proportionately large mass of tissue in a state of inflammation or : necrosis. With respect to the abscesses in parts other than the I' lungs, it must be admitted that their origin is not so easily explained on the embolic theory ; but in most cases we can trace • the three stages of vascular obstruction, extreme congestion or iinfarction, and necrosis or suppuration. The obstruction has, however, quite as much the appearance of arising from simple coagulation as from an embolic process. Changes in the veins of the originally diseased parts.—Some of these . are most often, though not always found inflamed, and with their ■ walls indurated, and containing coagula, which resemble those ■ just described in the pulmonary vessels, adherent to the walls, more or less decolorized, and usually in part at least softened down internally to a “ reddish or yellowish puriform pulp or fluid,” consisting generally of disintegrated fibrin. Dr. Bristowe has found both these and the corresponding arterial clots to con- tain in a few cases true pus, which is not surprising, though • certainly exceptional. The phenomena are in fact those of .thrombosis (which will be discussed in another part of this work), or local coagulation of blood, followed in this case bv rapid disintegration of the clot, and accompanied by inflammation of the walls of the vein. Comparing the details of morbid anatomy, just given, with the ■ theory before enunciated, it is plain that they correspond very 1 closely, and that, so far as pymmic abscesses, especially in the I lungs, are concerned, the embolic theory is a sufficient explanation of their occurrence. Softening of the vein clots causes disinte- grated fibrin to pass into the circulation, which then obstructs the pulmonary circulation, and excites inflammation there. Cer- : tain difficulties, however, have been raised as to the occurrence of k abscesses in other parts than the lungs, when the latter are free. How can the particles which cause suppuration pass through the lungs, and cause capillary obstruction and its consequences in other parts, as for instance, the liver F O. Weber attempted to answer this question by experiment, and found that as a matter of fact he could inject into the veins flocculent pus, so fine that it passed through the pulmonary capillaries, and was arrested in the systemic circulation, whore (e.g., in the liver) it produced capillary embolism, proved by microscopic examination, and abscess men there is coagulation in the pulmonary capillaries it is also known lnat this may extend into the pulmonary veins, and thus n second set of thrombi be produced. The other points in the morbid anatomy of pycoinia also admit of explanation to someI’Y.DMIA AND SEI'TIC.DMIA. 116 extent. Hemorrhage, or ecchymosis, is a direct consequence of capillary obstruction, when the embolic material is of such a nature as to injure the vascular wall. Thus Felts, in experiments on living animals, saw a haemorrhagic patch actually forming, in consequence of the obstruction and injury of capillaries by injected SUSttleChas been done to explain the origin of inflammations in ioints and serous membranes. . . , , ±, * J properties of the Venous Clots.— Supposing that the matter of decomposing clots does pass into the circulation, and produce the results just described, we still have to inquire how the clots come to break down, and how they have infective> pro- perties which certainly do not belong to all crumbling fibnn. It has’been found, as a matter of fact, that the coagula are readily formed, and do readily break down m veins which are surrounded by tissues in a state of inflammation, but espec-ally when this is an unhealthy or “ septic ” inflammation. These results have been attributed to inflammation of the vein, or to the infiltration through its walls of some poisonous substance de- rived from the inflamed parts, or even to the passage of leucocytes through the walls. At all events the softening is not very different funi that which occurs in other situations for instance, in the £e"t) toughitAppears to be more rapid The mfechre pro- j• '* p i-l„ plots are however, a matter of demonstration , and °rzrth °r th‘ r^eX^S^Mdemed.bat to* ® , • j. tiint the small veins are not always carefully ex J ^d vet such a v“in is extremely likely to he the starring- amT^V t^ disease Again, many cases of pyaemia start from point of tl > , }iard to trace. The occurrence of some hone, and veins m bone> are ha t,tz probable, hv the fact “Stwlo reject the emboHc theory or hod it iumOfeifc h«« inose wn j acquires from the entrance into it of sonic supposed that the bloc A infl;lmed parts the properly of poisonous mattei aerive property explains the . There arc doubtless other ohanp<» whioh j the primary disease : off., o«te^myeUUs ^“'fthe Dro diseaJei as almost eon- injuries, that some military surgeons }iauj sp° v]i d to he one of the parts whichPYEMIA and septicemia. 117 ( than they are. Again, it has been supposed that the corpuscles of : the blood acquire some property which may be termed adhesive- i ness, which causes them to agglomerate together, and to block up : the minute capillaries. But obstruction of capillaries by such : masses has not been observed in pyaemia, though it has been in other diseases in a few instances. Whichever of these views bo : adopted it is clear that the next important question is whether any morbid poison does enter the blood from the inflamed part; and if so, what this poison is. We therefore return to examine the hypothesis which we assumed on setting out. Specific Theory of Pyaemia.—The embolic theory, as well as i others, requires the assumption that some morbid poison is dis- tributed through the body from the primary seat of disease; but opinions differ greatly as to the probable nature of this poison. : Some have attempted to discover it by chemical moans, and have extracted from the putrid matters supposed to excite pyaemia a number of substances, such as ammonia, sulphuretted hydrogen, sulphide of ammonium, and various products of decomposition, which, when introduced into the blood of animals, have produced various morbid symptoms, but not pysemia. Decomposing albu- minous matters have also been supposed to act as a ferment on the blood. More recently a substance, to which the name of sepsin has been given, has been isolated, in the form of a combination with sulphuric acid, and even crystallized. It is said to produce all the poisonous effects of putrid substances in a most intense degree. It appears to be soluble in water, not volatile, not destroyed by boiling or evaporation to dryness. But it must remain for the present doubtful whether this is a pure substance. On the other hand, there are many who regard the hypothetical poison as an organism of the group Yibriones or Bacteria. Reck- linghausen has observed such forms, which he calls micrococci, in pysemic abscesses. Burdon Sanderson has traced similar organisms in the fluids of a large class of infective inflammations. Klebs believes it to be a true fungus, which he calls microsporon septicuvi, and several other pathologists have made similar observations. It seems to be clear, however, that the ordinary bacteria found in putrefying fluids cannot produce pyaemia; though they may, if injected into the blood, produce marked constitutional derange- ment, and also obstruction of capillaries. This subject is further discussed in the section on Vegetable Parasites. On the whole, we must conclude that pyaemia is a general disease produced by some morbid poison, either self-generated or introduced from without; but that the nature of this poison is not yet known. The most prominent lesions (abscesses and blocks) found in many cases of pytemia, are not essential to the disease, but the rosult of secondary processes, which effect a peculiar distribution of the poisonous substance. Cases of pyaemia in which such lesions are absent are nevertheless ex- tremely difficult to distinguish from tho othor conditions into118 SEPTICAEMIA. ■which they pass by insensible gradations, viz., fever resulting from suppuration or surgical fever (called by some writers pyaemia simplex), and the disease believed to be due to the.presence in tne blood of putrid or septic material, called septictemia. The former does not come within the scope of this work ; of the latter we must give some account, though leaving it undetermined whether it is really distinct from the constitutional condition of pyaemia. The two diseases appear to be often combined. SEPTICAEMIA. This has been also called ichorrhsemia, septic pyaemia, or putrid infection. It occurs rarely (some would say never) as an uncomplicated affection. When it supervenes after an injury the following symptoms are observed. At an early date, usuallv two or three days after the injury, the wounded part (which may never suppurate) assumes a swollen, infiltrated, and dis- coloured aspect, or inflammatory oedema, which may become actual gangrene. The febrile action runs high at the commencemeni, but°soon subsides, and the temperature may even fall below the normal. Rigors rarely occur at the outset,. and recurring shiverings do not appear in the course of the affection. The unne sometimes contains albumen. The skin is relaxed and dry, though in rare instances profuse perspiration may usher .in the attack. Delirium is not constant, but apathy, passing into stupor is usually observed. Copious diarrhoea sometimes occurs. I he disease runs a very rapid course, terminating fatally even m a couple of days—but in some instances lasts six or eight days, or even more rarely two or three weeks.* . Morbid Anatomy.— This is not at all characteristic; the blood is usually dark coloured, and imperfectly coagulated, the spleen enlarged, and soft ; liver and kidneys sometimes enlarged. Ike intestines occasionally exhibit haemorrhagic patches and swelling of the follicles, and contain black liquid feces.. Multiple abscesses do not occur; but in the experience of military surgeons.dark coloured metastatic nodules may occur in the pulmonary tissue, which, instead of undergoing suppuration, become gangrenous. Very rapid post-mortem decomposition is the rule. The above symptoms and post-mortem appearances correspond pretty closely with those observed in animals after the experimental injection of putrid animal matter into their veins. But it must be said that the type of disease presented by such animals is more definite and recognizable than any derived from observation oi actual cases of disease in man. And if we call the experi- mental disease septicaemia, the clinical disease seldom pei u resembles it. Our own experience has supplied us with a tew , Fitzgerald, Appendix to Report of Army Medical Department for 1S71.SEPTICAEMIA. 119 | cases which appear to fall under this head. They are those m which death has followed some injury complicated with gangrene, ^ bed-sore, urinous infiltration, what has been called pseudo- erysipelas, &c. The most remarkable post-mortem phenomenon -is the extremely rapid decomposition of the body, and the enor- mous evolution of gas; so that even in winter, and less that : twenty- four hours after death it maybe swollen and discoloured in as frightful a manner as in summer after some days. Numerous cavities containing gas are found in the viscera ; and on examina- tion both these and the blood are found to swarm with the bacteria of putrefaction. The occurrence of these at such a time after death, and in such numbers, is so exceptional that it must be ^regarded as the consequence of disease existing during life; and considering that the diseased parts (gangrenous wounds, foul bed- - sores, parts infiltrated with urine) also swarm with bacteria i. during life, it seems reasonable to conclude that these bac- • teria were distributed by the circulating blood to various parts of : the body; though the most conspicuous results of their activity : arc manifested after death. Of course the chemical substances «which always accompany bacteria in putrefaction must also have been present. In this sense we understand the word septicaemia. S Since, however, both here and in the corresponding experimental j disease, chemical products as well as bacteria are present, we can- not tell which should be regarded as the morbid poison. In any case the bacteria must not be confounded with the specific organ- isms which are supposed to be the cause of pyaemia or other - specific diseases; since these, if they exist, are certainly distinct from the ordinary putrefactive forms (Cohn). The following more recent works may be referred to on pyaemia anil septicaemia:— Virchow. “ Gesammelte Abhandlungen.” 1856. Bristowe. Article Pyaemia, in “ Reynolds’ System of Medicine.” > VoL I. 1866. Hueter, in Pitha und Billroth’s “ Handbuch der Chirurgie.” Band I. Abth. 2. 1869. Savory. “ St. Bartholomew’s Hospital Reports,” 1865, 1866, ‘ 1867. 0. Weber. “ Deutsche Klinik.” 1863, 1864, 1865. s.v. Klebs. Abstract from a Swiss Journal, in Virchow’s “ Jahres Bericht” for 1870. Vol. I. Billroth. “Surgical Pathology” and Papers in “ Archiv. fur Klin. Chirurgie,” 1862 to 1867. Feltz. “ Des Embolies Capillaires.” 2nd edition. Paris. 1870. Burdon Sanderson. “ Pathological Transactions,” vol. xxiii., p. 303, 1872; “ Medico-Chirurgical Transactions,” 1873 ; “Re- ' ports of the Medical Officer of the Privy Council.” Cohn, on Bacteria; “ Beitrage zur Biologie der Pflanzen,” Part II., 1872 ; “ Quart. Journ. Micr. Science,” April, 1873.CHAPTER IV. TEXTURAL CHANGES. We new come to consider certain changes, to which most of the various organs of the body are liable, in a general way. These changes are essentially textural, and result from various dis- turbances of the normal degree and kind of nutrition. They are also for the most part slow and gradual in their course, and are thus termed chronic. Hypertrophy, as its etymology signifies, conveys the idea of increased nutrition and growth in the part affected. The term, however, is sometimes applied to parts which are simply enlarged, and it is essential to observe that this enlargement by no means necessarily constitutes hypertrophy, but may, instead, be attended with the opposite condition. Tins makes it necessary to distinguish real from apparent hypertrophy. In the former the characteristic tissue of the part is enlarged, and more developed: if it be a muscle, the muscular fibres grow larger, and attain to greater energy of contraction; if it be a kidney, more renal tubes are formed with corresponding blood-vessels. The size of the organ is not only increased, but its working power too, the muscle can raise a greater weight, and the kidney can produce more secretion. But if a liver or spleen he enlarged by ever so great a quantity of the peculiar matter termed ‘‘waxy,” which is deposited interstitially between the elements of the tissue, their functional power is only thereby lessened and deteriorated, for the simple reason that the new sub- stance has pressed upon and caused wasting of the natural structure. It is therefore necessary in every case to ascertain what is the nature of the enlargement of a part before we pronounce it to be truly hypertrophied. Mere distension of a hollow organ, of course, is not hypertrophy ; a huge emphysematous lung, or hydrocephalic brain are not really enlarged, but rather diminished in actual capacity. Great congestion of a part with blood may give it the appearance of being hypertrophied, but this again is onlj anot er kind of distension. Real hypertrophy requires a free supply of healthy blood, and is commonly attended with enlargement of tne vossels of the part; this is not the case in apparent. The cause o121 TEXTURAL CHANGES. real hypertrophy in active organs seems to be always the increased exertion of the organ, more than usual effort is demanded of it, and according to the law of the circulation which we have noticed, more blood flows to the part than usual; this, if the organ be in a healthy state, not only supplies its waste, hut furnishes material for increase and development. The heart in various diseased states of its valves, the urinary bladder in stricture of the urethra, the remaining kidney when one has been destroyed, the muscles, and even the solid hones themselves, when long and actively exercised, afford excellent examples of true hypertrophy; which may in these cases he called functional. There may, however, be simply nutri- tive or passive hypertrophy; like that of the cock’s spur which . John Hunter transplanted from its foot to its head, and which there . grew to a very large size. Examples of this are seen in the rare cases where one side of the body or one limb grows to a gigantic 1 size; or is simply larger than the other. Again, conditions which cause an increased flow of blood to the part may sometimes (though not always) give rise to hypertrophy. Inflammation may have hypertrophy for its permanent consequence, as in enlargement of hones from chronic periostitis. lunctional hypertrophy, though in several instances it brings about an abnormal state of the part, is yet for the most part not to 1 be considered in the light of a disease. It is really a compensatory > effort made by the system to obviate as far as possible the evils ! arise from some damage that an important part has sustained. Thus, if we find the walls of the heart greatly thickened, and its i power proportionately increased, we should naturally fear that such an abnormal increase of power would prove a cause of danger to the system, and would probably induce haemorrhage in the ' bram, or elsewherebut if we know that at the same time there • e{Ps^s regurgitant disease of the mitral or of the aortic valves, then we see that the hypertrophy, so far from being attended with danger, is useful and necessary to enable the circulation to be carried on against such impediments. Hypertrophy usually depends on multiplication of the elements ot the part, not on enlargement of them; the ultimate fibrillre of Jjr^sele in a hypertrophied heart for instance are of the normal size. i inis multiplication has been called hyperplasia ; but such condition does not always lead to hypertrophy. It only means that new elements like the old ones are produced; but these new elements “lay quickly perish as they usually do in inflammatory hyperplasia ■ or they may be changed into something different from the original type dasff ^ n6W glWths’ many of which begin with a process of ■Atrophy is tho opposite condition to hypertrophy; and is com- moniy conceived of as implying a wasting and diminution of tho ‘i,,- f trophy however, may have taken place to a great extent Ut anJ diminution, but an increase of size. Thesearetho nstances of false hypertrophy, to which we have aboyo alluded.122 TEXTURAL CHANGES. In a few cases atrophy is a natural process, as in the disappear- ance of the thymus gland when the age of early infancy is passed. Inactivity of a part, obstruction of its blood-vessels, failure of its own vital energy, continued pressure upon its surface, are all recognized causes of atrophy. A muscle, if unused, becomes small and pale, and its tissue degenerates; the hones of a paralytic limb lose in density and strength, and in compactness of tissue; the brain in second childhood shrinks within its bony case, and leaves a space occupied by serum. Obstruction of the artenal branch leading to a part of the kidney will cause wasting of the epithelium of the tube in that part, ligature of the thyroideal arteiies has caused considerable diminution of a goitrous tumour. Thmning of the walls of the heart, renal degeneration, the fall, of the hair and the general decay of advanced age, are rnsba-nccs °f atropiiy from failing vital energy of the tissues. With the effect of pie-mre in producing atrophy, all are familiar; it is well exemplified in the absorption that tikes place from the pressure of affects not only the soft parts, but the bones themseives. ^mo^ cases atrophy is an actually morbid process, and is attended by a change in the7condition of the elementary parts of the tissue which attests the unhealthy character of their nutrition, especial some of the forms of degeneration mentioned below. Atrophy often occurs as a secondary process, induced by someP^maW ™ may have been attended with apparent hypertrophy. Of this the live7 in the earlier and later stages of cirrhosis furnishes an mshma. Induration and softening are terms that are com™onlJ ®?n!’ ’^ to express changes that have occurred in the consistence of various organs, rendering them more or less firm and dense than natural. They are, of course, very general m then- meaning, and of them selves tell nothing as to the pathological condition of the part- affected This must depend entirely on the causes of'theichan.es in question. The commonest cause of induration is the effusion of fibrinous material into the interstices of a tissue; if thrs does nc| liquefy and become absorbed, it passes into the state of filro d tissue^ and being blended with or replacing the elements of the part, E— obstruction. The tissues involved m the induration matter, as is often called, are veiy apt to become a^°P^e^^ration 0f sequence of their supply of blood being cutoff ihe vessels distributed to them, partly 1 f triflin'1, tittHSS it is a common cans, of123 DEGENERATIONS. «secondary disease, dropsy, and death. Textures are often rendered harder and firmer by other deposits than simple fibrinous, ashy ■ tuberculous, bacony, calcareous, but to these the term induration i: is not so strictly applicable. Softening of a part may be brought about by very various causes. [It is almost an invariable effect of acute inflammation actually e existing; it is also found as the result of inflammation that has in ? great measure subsided; it occurs from deprivation of blood, as a hind of atrophy, and probably, in some cases, as a local result of a .general cachexia. In all cases it involves a considerable deviation ffrom the state of healthy nutrition, and if it proceeds far, may * easily occasion a breaking down and destruction of the tissue. The i distinction of various kinds of softening, especially of the red, or inflammatory, has often been considered difficult, but may generally be made with certainty by means of microscopical examination, v which discovers in the former decided traces of exudation. Soften- ::ing is connected with the hypnotic condition of the blood, and - allied states, especially the typhous ; induration, on the other hand, • with the fibrinous crasis. Softening is more prone to occasion •speedy destruction of textures and fatal disorder. Induration, to ; produce gradual changes whose effects are slowly and gradually ■ manifested. Softening appears as a process of decay, and affects not only natural structures, but new formations, and even as we have seen tuberculous deposits and fibrinous coagula. Induration, on the contrary, though involving some degree of atrophy, tends to ; preserve the parts which it affects from entire dissolution. DEGENERATIONS. • Regenerations are changes of an essentially chronic nature, latent m their origin, and obscure in their progress, until they have pro- duced such deteriorations of structure as give rise to prominent • secondary phenomena. Those with which we are most acquainted are the fatty, fibrous, calcareous, and waxy or amyloid. They are, except the last, of extremely frequent occurrence, but their nature nas scarcely been recognized until of late. Fatty degeneration consists in the replacement of the healthy ussuo of a part, by drops, or molecules of oily nature, which are deposited, as it seems, instead of the natural material. This is tno case with the substance of the connective-tissue corpuscles shown in the figure (p. 124). This character distinguishes it from iatty accumulation or infiltration, which may take place to a great extent m the interstices of a tissue so as to overlay and conceal ns elements. In true fatty degeneration there is always destruc- tion ot tissue, -which does not occur when there is merelv an thm<eaSfr °t thVSubstance of the Part' A muscular fibre tissue i?fved+ifh0WS t,he 8arcou? elements, the real contractile tissue within the sarcolemma, replaced by glistening oil particles124 degenerations. Eig. 14. Connective-tissue corpuscles from the inner coat of an artery, in a state of fatty degeneration. (Alter Rindfleisch.) so that the functional power of the organ is pro tardo destroyed. The hepatic cells in true fatty degeneration not only fill them- selves with oil, hut fuse together with others, and break up into granulous films, entang- ling oil-drops; this destruction does not occur when they simply become loaded with oil from the presence of a large quantity of this substance in the food. The process by which fibrinous co- agula, or extra-vascular de- posits are broken down and dissolved, seems to be in some measure of the nature of fatty degeneration; there is com- monly much free oily matter visible in the softened mass, and the exudation corpuscles seem to be thoroughly charged with it. Fatty degeneration is clearly a kind of atrophy, but not identical with the simple form; we have seen muscular fibres of the heart, which were 5 y atrophied, and had lost their transverse striation entirely, winch yet did not contain a single particle of oil. The prevalent opinion respecting the nature of fatty degeneration is that.there occurs true conversion of the albuminous substance of the tissue mto fatty mattei lust as when adipocere is formed out of flesh immersed in water, but this is opposed by Dr Ormerod s inv®fa^tmn». However this may be, it is important to distinguish the following conditions in which the quantity of fatty matter m and part is greatly increased. (1) Mere accumulation of adipose sub- stance in and around an organ, the tissue remaining heaithy (2) accumulation of adipose tissue in the same waybutwit atrophy of the proper structure; (3) increase of od in the elementary structure of a part without atrophy, or breakin up, S true fatty degeneration, in which the structure is more or loss dpstroved aiid its elementary parts converted into oily matter. d It i, remarkable that poisoning with phosphorus into urea, being formed at the same tune. induration. It Fibroid degeneration is somewhat allied aueg ;md of occasions the gradual thickening 0> se foct v-nd of fibrous areolar tissue by the formation of a P d t]ien structure. This may attain a considerable ttackuess, by its dead white aspoct resemble v ery mnc d bas been The capsule of the spleen is sometimes thus altered, and hasDEGENERATIONS. 125 •wrongly said to have undergone cartilaginification, for there is no real similarity between this substance and cartilage. The white patches formed on the surface of the pericardium and in the capsule of tho liver are produced in this manner, and so is also that : thickening of the Glissonian sheaths, which give rise, in many cases, to cirrhosis. Many organs show similar changes. Thus in the heart we may find the muscular tissue replaced to a great ■extent by newly-formed fibrous (or so called “fibroid”) tissue, iLarge tracts of the lung may be converted into similar tissue in the disease called Fibroid Phthisis. Granular disease of the kidney ultimately results in a similar substitution. Since in all these cases the specialized tissue of the organs becomes replaced by one of less perfect organization, the change may be described as a degeneration. It has also been proposed to term it fibroid • substitution. The new tissue is probably formed, in part, by thickening of the pre-existent fibrous tissue which exists more or less in all organs, in part also by nuclei, developing fibres by a process similar to that which takes place in the formation of normal connective tissue, or of that produced for repair. The chief difference between induration and fibrous degeneration consists in this, that in the former, a notable quantity of blastema -is effused, which becomes the induration matter, and compresses and atrophies the adjacent texture ; in the latter there seems to be scarce any perceptible exudation, as it takes place slowly, and passes at once into the condition of fibre. Induration may affect any tissue, while fibrous degeneration is chiefly seen in membranes. Cartilage, however, is liable to a fibrous transformation of a some- what different kind, which will be hereafter noticed. Fibrous regeneration seems to be sometimes a consequence of long-con- tinued venous congestion, as seen in the liver in cases of heart iisease ; and possibly of deficient supply of arterial blood. Calcareous degeneration rarely occurs as a primary change, it .8 almost always secondary to some other. Especially it seems ~ P® consequent upon a fatty degeneration of the arteries, to which the term atheroma is applied, and which may occur at my period of life, while the calcareous change is seldom observed very extensively, except in advanced age. It is often spoken of is ossification, and, indeed, not altogether without reason, as the ! lacuaao ” characteristic of bone are found in this substance also in some cases; —for instance, according to Virchow, in the calcareous plates of arteries, where they are, however, irregularly and imnor- iectly developed. The earthy matters deposited are, principally phos- pnato of lirne and magnesia, and carbonate of lime ; Rokitansky -on miers them to be not so much new deposits as precipitations from tieir natural combinations with animal matters. Calcareous denosi tarn seems generally to take place in parts whose vitality has been considerably lowered by previous morbid processes within them Thus it is common in lymphatic glands which have been the SGat f scrofulous disease, an obsolete croupo-fibrinous deposits, in theDEGENERATIONS. 12G coats of arteries which have begun to be affected by atheroma, and in the valves of the heart under similar circumstances. The athe- romatous condition, which we shall describe more when we speak of the diseases of arteries, may either terminate inSoftening and breaking down of the arterial coats, or m calcareous deposition; both of these changes often co-exist, but the latter predominates in old age. We think, however, t rat deposition Pof earthy matter may take place to a great exte^t- so^as to produce the ossification so common m the vessels of the ao-ed without previous atheromatous or fatty degeneration, ihe auantity of earthy matter in the bones becomes greatly increased in later life it is even deposited in the so-named permanent cartdages and it is, therefore, not surprising that it should also affect the walls of the vessels. This degeneration, probably, is occasioned solely by a failure of assimilative nutritive power in . thOtheTfmms'of degeneration have been described by authors; as the LS which affects the cells of certain tumours, causing them to lose their distinctness; becoming first individually con- verted into masses of transparent gelatinous material, and next fused together so as to lose wholly or partly their separate outhnes. The material called colloid is related to the albuminates, and re- sembTetScm, but differs in not being precipitated by acetic acid. Colloid metamorphosis, or degeneration, occurs in normal strm tures as the thyroid, and in new growths, as in colloid cancer. Mucoid degeneration, better called simply metamorphosis con- sists in the transformation of albuminous constituents of tissues into mucin, a substance distinguished from albumenEvedTy an nf beino- coagulated by acetic acid, and not ie-dissolyea oy excess ° This” substance is often found m embryomc tissues and cells the membranesoftheW, The pathological pigmentation is es &c °-^ls js tnie o"pSntotion such as that in AdcJ^127 DEGENERATIONS. disease in the connective-tissue corpuscles of the pia mater covering Jthe medulla oblongata, which is often found specially dark. Most lung pigment has a different origin, being carbon taken in •with the breath. That in the bronchial glands is doubtless the .».same substance, conveyed from the lung by the lymphatics. _ Waxy, Lardaceous, or Amyloid Degeneration.—This name is used I ' to denote a degeneration which may affect almost any organ of the body, but is most common in certain of the internal viscera. The I organs affected by it have, when the degeneration is far advanced, I a peculiar appearance, which is, even to the naked eye, quite itinctive of the disease. They are pale, more homogeneous than natural, somewhat translucent, and appearing generally as if soaked with some semi-transparent material. On section they .are found to be firm and unusually dry. This change is not, however, always so universal, but may affect only special parts’ of pai ticular organs. The change is found to be essentially due to xhe deposition in the affected structure of a peculiar material, the lature of which has been the subject of much discussion. Formerly supposed from its reaction with iodine to be allied to starch, and at mother time wrongly identified with cholesterine, it has now been .dearly shown to be a nitrogenous compound, of complex constitu- lon, belonging to the large group of albuminates. Its precise jomposition has not been determined, in consequence of the great ufnculty of obtaining it perfectly pure. It seems, however, to have i more complicated constitution than most albuminates. The vaxy substance is not altered by the action of water, and shows i remarkable resistance to ordinary putrefactive change. It is ^iso not dissolved by digestion with pepsin, as are other albuminous .ubstances; and this property has been made use of for its isolation, •-ts most remarkable chemical reaction is the change of colour pro- duced by the action of iodine. Parts which have undergone waxy .egeneration are stained by tincture or watery solution of iodine with potassium iodide) of a yellowish-brown, or sometimes a -arker mahogany-brown colour. This change is usually seen in ome of the elementary parts only, as in the smaller arteries, the lotnerali of the kidney, or sometimes in epithelial or glandular eus More rarely there is a general colouring, or what is most »uai, a general yellow tint is produced along with a darker colour t those parts more specially affected. These colours are dis- Jiguished from what iodine produces in healthy organs both y their greater intensity and by their greater permanence If w parts thus stained be further treated with dilute sulphuric ttLle yellowish-brown colour usually becomes nearly black urplish, or in rare cases actually blue.* ^ ’ ■Hrm ”derto obtain ablue °r purple colour in the iodine-stained stn«otnr»« h,. n. o,,n i f ,9V‘Phunc ttcld> the heat plan is first to soak the specimen (well?™, a r th° •Tik 1?ldlJute solution of iodine; then to place it under water whirl, from a purler of an inih ; and finally toTop IncenPa ed Tlfh U->? a UtUe Lo‘Sht “><-• ^face of the water ubovePthe spec^en mttfTwaya128 degenerations. It is not certain whether the waxyor ^ from an actual metamoip them being poured out elements, or whether it merely mfiUiates thoU ; .. £ h fkct senting a peculiar pale, homo art the nuclei, fibres all the minute structural characters of part. £ that and cells being quite obliterated. ^ ^ ,q of the change commences mtl ^ d ration are glandular frequency to be affected by t liver these not the vessels, cells; and in some organs as the hw these, n ^ e seem to be primarily altered^ CeUs wluch ^ ^ lardaceous degeneration are enlarge , often tw0 0r homogeneous, translucent a° ? an irrefmlar mass. The more may be found fused tog thus explained both condition of STesoTend bT the sing of the tteKSr‘S, pressing on the vessels, htnder the supply ofS«. ,fur^ quentlv affected are the sp J , ,’qan(is. Second in order of frequency must (according to Vagner) he placed the mucous membrane of the intestinal canal, the supra- renal capsules, and the omentum. More rare,yB (and seldom or never with- out simultaneous affection of some of those organs iust mentioned) the same change is found m the mucous membrane of other parts of the digestive tract, the pancreas, the mucous membranes of the unuary organs, the generative or- gans, the heart, thyroid body, lungs, and bronchi; as also, it is said, m blood „ .. TRU PflFoclion almost always 5™ srcoiiitutionhi <* «■»«* Eig. 15. (After Rindfleisch.) ff^JS=SS^^^’*fc,eS5SStfS5- POWiUI UUU . times fails) produces a peim stainod by iodine.129 DEGENERATIONS. j local affection ; very rarely it appears to be idiopathic, or at least J 11 the • primary disease cannot be traced. By far the most frequent t idetermining cause is some long-continued suppuration, such as 1 .accompanies necrosis or caries of bone, chronic abscess, joint 1 ^disease, &c. In the same way it may follow pulmonary phthisis 1 -'where there is much inflammatory destruction of the lung, dilata- i jttion of the bronchi with suppuration, empyema, chronic intestinal < uulceration, pyelitis, cystitis, and, it is said, chronic ulceration of r. the skin. Syphilis is a very frequent precursor of waxy degenera- tition, and this usually when it takes the form of bone disease or * chronic ulceration; but by no means invariably, for cases occur ian which waxy degeneration of the kidneys is the most promi- mont symptom of constitutional syphilis. It is also believed 1 by Dr. Dickinson that this degeneration of the kidneys may ( Ocelli’ as a sequel to simple chronic inflammation of those organs (tubular nephritis), but the question will then suggest itself '■whether the waxy degeneration may not have been the primary ddisease. A chemical explanation has been proposed by Dr. Dickinson of tithe fact that in the immense majority of instances this form of i-Iegeneration is preceded by chronic suppuration. He finds that mi tissues affected with waxy degeneration the proportion of Alkaline salts (as determined in the ash left by ignition) is re- markably diminished, even to the extent of 25 per cent. ; while she proportion of lime is in some degree increased. He has also minted out that parts thus affected have lost the natural faint alkaline reaction of healthy tissues, and are neutral or acid, so as io longer to discharge the colour of indigo solution, but to become stained by it. They may thus be recognized as clearly as by the iodine reaction. Regarding the lardaceous substance, in accordance vith the latest analysis as allied to fibrin, Dr. Dickinson goes a •tep farther, and concludes that it is nothing more than fibrin tepnved of the alkaline salts which it naturally contains. Hence ie denominates it dealkalized fibrin, and has, by treating fibrin vith acids, produced a substance which somewhat resembles the ardaceous material in its reaction with iodine. Finally, the loss of alkaline salts is attributed by Dr. Dickinson to the chronic mrulent discharge, which is the usual antecedent of this disease, jus being^ found to contain a large proportion of potassium and odium. The name of depurative disease is hence applied to this orm of degeneration. Space does not permit any full discussion of this hypothesis. can °nly say that Dr. Dickinson’s theory appears by no means satisfactorily proved. We do not know how tar the deficient of ilkalme salts is peculiar to the state of waxy degeneration or whether it does not occur in other anaemic conditions of the tissues -here is no obvious connection between the loss of alkaline silts which may be neutral) and tho change of reaction; andfinallt no >roof has been offered that the fibrin, or any constituent of the IC130 D EGENEB AT IONS. blood, has actually undergone sucb changes as, according to the theory, it should have undergone.* Consequences and Symptoms of Lardaceous Degeneration.—the normal functions of the organs affected are, generally speaking, suspended or seriously interfered with. In the case of the kidneys there is deficient excretion of urinary substances (though there may be superabundance of water), albuminuria, and dropsy. W hen tte spleen, liver, and lymphatic glands are affected, there will ie deficient blood-formation leading to ansemia and general cachexia. The intestinal affections give rise to copious watery diarrhoea. General dropsy is a common symptom. Turpura has been traced to this condition in some cases with muck probability, haemorrhage bemg permitted by the diseased state of the vascular walls. The general consequences and symptoms are often with difficulty to be distinguished from those of the previously existing constitutional state which produced the disease, and hence diagnosis is almost confined to recognizing the affections of particular organs; but only in the case ot the kidneys, liver, and spleen is this possible. Waxy degeneration of the kidneys is made evident by a tram of symptoms to be hereafter described, which are still by no means free from ambiguity. The same alteration of the liver and spleen may be concluded from enlargement, which cannot be traced to any other of the known causes of hypertrophy, especially if there have been a history of suppuration. The simultaneous occurrence of these symptoms in distinct organs of course increases the probability ofthe diagnosis in a very high ratio. Grave and inveterate cases of this affection show no tendency to recovery, and appeal'to be inevitably fatal. Nevertheless it is extremely probable that slighter forms of the disease, which escape notice, occur and pass awav again- while some good observers assert that during the cruise of a chronic suppuration enlargement of the liver and spleen may be sometimes distinctly made out, and complde y disauoear when the primary disease gets well, in such recovery clearly depends upon removal of the determining cause. . A committee of the Pathological Potassa Soda. rhosphoric Acid. Chlorine Average of three healthy livers Average of three lardaceous livers •2821 •1319 •0948 •1902 •3295 *1981 *1073 •1664 They also found in one specimen of cd proportion of fat. Experiments than in the healthy organ, and generally anurn: ■-eo 1 1 (ibrin did not lead to any made to ascertain iW^of^eM^w^lg*,*0 definite result. (“ Trans. Path. Soc.,”131 CORPORA AMYLACEA. By this name are distinguished certain bodies which were at one time believed to consist of starch, and were both on that ground and later on other grounds put under the same hoad^s the matenal found in waxy degeneration. They are minute, mostly of microscopical size, though sometimes just visible to the naked of ’ lfUa ly °val ?r r°und, and of concentric laminated structure of unknown chemical composition, but coloured, either bluish or biown, by iodine. They are found m various organs, and it is not same“ atiSe °S0 ^ parts °f the body are a11 of the The corpora amylacea of the brain and nervous system form the most clearly defined and recognizable group. In all atronhie conditions of nervous tissue, especially in softening of the nelwe centres, the microscope shows a number of minute bodies net unlike starch granules generally made up of concentric layers and tinged brown or bluish by iodine. There is™ + ’ believe that they agree with starch in composition. ‘" 111 ° nTi, 0 C,°n1CfntL1’1C Jodles of the prostate are generally much larger amylacea already described. laentical with the corporaCHAPTER Y. KEf FORMATIONS. It is difficult to give a perfectly exact definition of tlie class of new formations; for we shall exclude from it many productions which are not found in the healthy organism, and shall include in it some which are hut the result of the action of parts normally existing. Thus we shall not mention the excessive production of fat cells, which takes place in general obesity, as an instance of new formations, while we shall consider as such the distension of a sebaceous follicle into an encysted tumour. This defect, however, is common to all arrangements. Nature presents us readily with distinct types of different classes; but rarely, if ever, does she define and separate her groups by any exact limitation, and the rigid taxonomist wearies himself in the search for that which does not exist. The idea which is conveyed in the term “ tumours,'’ seems, in a general way, most descriptive of the class now before us, which may be said to include all new prominent or otherwise apparent local growths. The character of growing excludes tuber- culous and other deposits, and concretions. Thus an effused mass of blood even if it become organized, does not go on increasing in size. Tumours must also be distinguished from mere enlargements or hypertrophies in which no definite form is assumed by the newly formed elements. Finally they must be separated (though the separation is not always easy) from the products of inflammation. There is, doubtless, in the latter process a very abundant formation of new elements, but these do not compose any permanent struc- ture. Either the result is something not strictly speaking organized at all (as pus), or else the organization is but transitory and pre- liminary to some higher kind of organization, as is the case with granulations. But since of some new growths it is also true that they tend to atrophy and decay after going through a period of progressive growth, it is clear that the distinction is one which cannot be absolutely insisted upon. The lino is least clearly drawn in the case of two species of morbid growths sometimes classed as tumours, but sometimes as inflammatory products: and which we consider as a class apart—viz., tubercle and the products of syphilis.133 NEW FORMATIONS. Classification of New Growths.—New growths thus defined, differ very widely in their structure or anatomical characters ; as well as in their effect on the organism, their mode of growth and increase. These differences supply two very different, but both important, bases of classification. (1) Anatomical struc- ture. _ (2) Clinical or physiological characters, derived from the history and development of the growths. Proceeding on the first basis, we arrange new growths according as they resemble or differ from the normal tissues and elements of the body; on the second basis it has been customary to classify them as malignant and non-malignant. A third basis of classification is supplied by the nature of the tissue in which the new growth arises; the chief dis- tinction being between those which arise from the class of connect- ive tissues (including serous membranes) and those which have their origin in ^ glandular or epithelial (including epidermic) structures. This distinction, which is founded on embryological development, will be further considered hereafter, but does° not seem as yet to be sufficiently worked out. In practical medicine the physiological properties are the most important. Without stopping now fully to define what is meant by malignant, we may say that this name is applied to tumours which affect many parts of the body at once, and which threaten the life of the individual, being associated with a general and fatal disease, not cured by extirpation of the part affected. On comparing the anatomical and physiological classifications, it is found that they do not by any means coincide. The property of malignancy belongs to new growths which differ very widely in anatomical structure, and it is consequently not possible, though it has long been the desire of pathologists, to define any one anatomical type which shall be absolutely characteristic of malignant tumours. - loreover the distinction of malignant and non-malignant growths, even apart from anatomical considerations, is by no means clear, no broad line can be drawn between the two; and the property wdl be found to be simply one possessed by different classes of tumours in unequal degrees. It will thus be possible to arrange the anatomical species of tumours in a graduated series, at one end of which will be placed those which are malignant in the highest degree, at the other end those which are not at all so.* Prom these considerations it is plain that the physiological characters cannot form a convenient basis of classification ; and our arran fo- ment will therefore bo entirely anatomical; founded on a comparison of the structure of the new growths with that of normal parts. Homologous and Heterologous Growths.—No new growth con- tains any elements essentially unlike those met with in the oody either in its mature state or at some stage of develop- ment, but these elements are sometimes arranged in the samo * The chemical student will recall the division of the elements into Hnd electro-negative; a distinction which permit* of their a.™ment or descending aeries, but not in two absolutely separate groups ascending134 SIMPLE HISTIOID TUMOURS. way as those of the normal tissues; sometimes in quite a dif- ferent way; or else like the elements of normal tissues at an early stage of development. Proceeding from this basis, a classification of new growths as Homologous and Heterologous, has been proposed. Homologous growths are those which are like normal tissues of the body, heterologous those which are unlike normal mature tissues; those which resemble immature or em- bryonic tissues forming an intermediate class. But it should be understood that a new growth composed of simple and normal tissue may be heterologous if it occur in an organ of different structure and at a distance from tissue of the same kind (for instance, a car- tilaginous tumour in the lung), and a homologous growth is, strictly speaking, one which arises by continuous development from a normal tissue of the body and resembles it in structure. Such a process of development is in fact, one of simple increase, and might he called hypertrophy; but if we regard the increase in number of histological elements as the most important fact, the term Hyperplasia will seem preferable,' and thus all growths which are both in their origin and their ultimate form homologous may be called Hyperplastic. We can then use the corresponding term Heteroplastic for those growths, which are in the strict sense heterologous; that is, which are unlike the tissues from which they take their rise. It must be evident from what has been said that the production of hyperplastic tumours cannot be separated from the new growth of any simple tissue of the body out of tissue of the same kind. The product is called a tumour merely when it has a certain distinctness and isolation. We shall therefore consider the new growth of simple tissues under the same head as the corresponding tumours. SIMPLE HISTIOID TUMOURS. Those new growths which resemble the simple tissues of the body may be called Simple Histioid Tumours. This group includes the following species:—Fibrous, Mucous, Fatty, Cartilaginous, Osseous, Vascular, Glandular, Muscular, Nervous, and Lymphatic tumours. I.—HEW GROWTH OF CONNECTIVE TISSUE ; FIBROUS TUMOUR AND FIBRO-CELLULAR TUMOUR; FIBROMA. The new formation of connective tissue takes place in a great nurnbor of pathological conditions. It is the most important factor in the process by which wounds are healed in vascular parts, and perhaps also in non-vascular parts ; the same tissue often replaces special structures, such as nerve or muscle, when these are destroyed by violence or disease; and the production of connective tissueNEW GROWTH OF CONNECTIVE TISSUE. 135 often constitutes a disease by itself as in the changes known as fibroid degeneration or induration, which depend upon an increase of the connective tissue normally existing in the organ affected. Newly formed connective tissue is usually found in connection with previously existing tissue of the same kind, and appears to he formed by continuous development from it; but in some cases it has been thought that it is produced by metamorphosis of the elements of the blood, either within the vessels as in the trans- formation of a blood clot into fibrous tissue, or outside, in the case of white blood cells which have passed through the vascular walls. Connective tissue of new formation is usually well supplied and sometimes richly supplied with vessels. It is composed of fibres with connective tissue corpuscles and nuclei; the latter being especially numerous in recently produced tissue. It is liable to shrivel and contract; as well as to undergo both fatty and cal- careous degeneration. When a new growth of connective tissue forms a distinct isolated mass it is either a fibrous tumour (Fibroma, Innoma) or a fibro-cellular tumour. Fibrous Tumours.—These constitute a group with tolerably well- marked structural characters, but shading, almost imperceptibly, into other species of very different nature. They are essentially made up of fibres, more or less closely resem- bling those of connective tissue, but appearing in very various stages of de- velopment in different spe- cimens. Sometimes the fibres are tolerably distinct and separate; more often so interlaced and blended together, or so imperfectly evolved, that they cannot be made out as such. Some- times the fundamental sub- stance is on the other hand amorphous or very indis- tinctly fibrillated. They contain also in various abundance the character- istic “ connective tissue cor- puscles ” or plasmatic cells ; which are stellate or fusi- form, nucleated, and ana- stomose with one another. Fia. Ifi. Section of a simple iibrous tumour of the skin. (Fiom an original preparation,) Yellow elastic fibrous tissue is not frequently mingled with the white. Beside these elements fibrous tumours contain blood-vessels which are sometimes verv numerous; but no other tissue in large quantity. Tumours com-136 NEW GROWTH OF CONNECTIVE TISSUE. posed principally of smooth muscular fibre with some connective tissue, formerly called fibroid, are better classed with muscular tumours. The texture of true fibrous tumours is firm and tough, often grating under the knife; their surface is glistening and smooth; the colour white, reddish white, or greyish red. Thittle fluid is seen on the cut surface; what there is, is usually albuminous, .[hey generally yield gelatine on boiling. In size they vary verv greatly; some are extremely small, while some have been seen a toot or more in diameter, being among the largest of all tumours. They differ much in their degree of connection with neighbouring parts, being sometimes blended with these by continuity^of tissue, but more often separated by a clear line of demarcation. Fibrous tumours develop themselves in very different parts of the body; usually in such as normally contain much fibrous tissue. They originate from the skin and subcutaneous connective tissue of the trunk and extremities; sometimes in enormous number. Cutaneous fibrous tumours are sometimes pedunculated, and under this head must be placed the growths known as molluseum fibrosum. In other organs they almost always occur singly (if we leave out of consideration the so-called fibrous tumours of the uterus). They arise from fascia, from the periosteum (as in some forms of epulis); from the sheath of nerves (forming one kind of so-called neuroma) ; from bone ; also in some glandular organs as in the kidney and mammae ; and genuine tumours of this class sometimes occur in the uterus. Fibrous tumours are subject to several kinds of metamorphosis. Cretifieation is not unfrequent, and may either commence indif- ferently at any part, proceeding until the whole is converted into a calcareous mass, or it may be in great measure limited to the peripheral stratum, which it thus converts into a kind of shell, enclosing the rest. The calcareous degeneration affects tumours of very different size, and does not bear any relation to the age of the growth. The formation of true bone is less common, but has been observed in cases of fibrous epulis. Pigment is sometimes abundantly deposited, and is said to proceed from antecedent haemorrhage. Cyst-like cavities, filled with clear fluid, are occasionally found in fibrous tumours, constituting thus a fibro-cystic variety. Inflammation may occur, characterized by injection of the part, production of inflammatory cells, and sometimes by the formation of an abscess. Fibrous tissue is not unfrequently combined with some other growth in the formation of a tumour. In this way there result mixed forms, such as the fibro-fatty tumour, or fibroma lipomatodes. fibro- myxoma, fibro-myoma, and fibro-sareoma. The signification will appear when we have described the corresponding forms of simple tumours. Fibro-cellular Tumour.—This name is given to tumours composed of loose delicate forms of connective tissue, where the fibrous bundles leave considerable intervening spaces, filled with fluid.137 NEW GROWTH OF MUCOUS TISSUE. + Surgical Pathology," second edition, p. 762. This group is not very well defined, and there exists no sufficient reason for separating it from the true fibrous tumours.’* Clinical Characters.—Fibrous and fibro-cellular tumours may be taken as the type of “ innocent ” growths. They cause no ulcera- tion or destruction of the neighbouring parts, except by mere mechanical pressure; they do not spread from one organ to another by contiguity ; when removed they rarely return on the same spot; and cases of the production of similar tumours in a distant part of the body are of the greatest possible rarity. Two cases are, however, recorded by Sir J. Paget, t and others are re- ferred to by Virchow.J II.—NEW GROWTH OF MUCOUS TISSUE, MUCOUS OR GELATINOUS TUMOUR, MYXOMA. There is a particular form of tissue met with in some parts of the body, to which Virchow has given the name of mucous tissue. The only normal adult structure composed of it is the vitreous body of the eye, but it constitutes the Whartonian jelly of the umbilical cord; and in the embryo the subcutaneous tissue which afterwards becomes adipose, is at first of this kind. Jt is essentially a kind of connective tissue, and contains a network of stellate, anasto- mosing plasmatic cells, It differs from fibrous connective tissue in having a gelatinous semi-solid intercellular substance, contain- ing in large quantity the ill-defined body mucin, which is dissolved by alkalies, and precipitated, without re-solution in excess, by acetic acid. This tissue occurs in pathological conditions chiefly as a distinct new growth or tumour, and hardly ever as a diffuse infiltration, unless it affect some other kind of tumour already formed. Tumours composed of mucous tissue or myxomata, are usually oval or round masses, tense and elastic when handled, and enclosed in a tolerably firm capsule of connective tissue. On section, they show a smooth, glistening surface, from which runs off, sometimes very copiously, a glassy or mucilaginous fluid. The consistence is that of “a flickering but tenacious substance, half pellucid, like size-gelatine.” They bear somo resemblance to (edematous connective tissue; only that the fluid which runs off is not serous, but contains mucin ; and it never escapes so com- pletely that the tissue collapses. The colour is usually yellowish, but may, from vascularity, or from htemorrhago, pass through all shades of pink to a bright cherry red; and very beautiful mottlings, uke those of a transparent pobble, are sometimes thus produced! Uther portions are often white and opaque, either from the admixture of fatty tissue, or from the presence of very numerous . * The tumours called by Taget “ fibro-cellular tumours n ‘re be aeHonbpd under the name mi/xoma. < Lie Krankkaften GesehwUlste,” i. p. 3Q2. properly so called,” will138 NEW GROWTH OF MUCOUS TISSUE. round cells, which, sometimes give the tumour a “ medullary ” appearance. On examining the fluid which escapes, or a small frag- ment of the tumour, blood globules will be seen, but in fresh speci- mens hardly, it may be, anything else, the cellular elements being singularly pellucid. On treatment with carmine, &c., or sometimes without, stellate or multipolar cells are seen, which are fragments Eig. 17. in the larger corpuscles. Magnified 400 diameters. (Payne, “ Trans. Path. Soc.,” vol. xx., 1869.) of the cellular network. The tumour is seldom sufficiently solid to permit the cutting of a good section, but when this is possible the complete network of anastomosing cells is seen. There are always, beside these, round cells resembling those of embryonic tissue (or of granulations) which form no part of the network just spoken of. They exist in variable number, but when very numerous, produce a structure like that hereafter to be described as medullary sarcoma. Myxoma sometimes arises as a hyperplastic growth from the placenta, forming the well-known “uterine hydatids,” which consist of an outgrowth of the mucous tissue, which the tufts of the chorion, equally with the umbilical cord, normally contain. In other cases the growth must be called heteroplastic, and arises from the neuroglia (or connective tissue of nervous structures), subcutaneous connective tissue, from intermuscular septa, from various fasciae, from the sheaths of nerves, and from glandular139 NEW GROWTH OF ADIPOSE TISSUE. organs. Many examples of what is called neuroma come under this head, and many which were formerly called colloid tumours; also some polypi of mucous surfaces and the ‘ ‘ fibro-cellular tumours, properly so calledof Sir J. Paget. Mixed tumours, in which this form is combined with some other kind of growth, are more common than the pure myxoma. Such are the myxoma lipomatodes, or combination with fatty tumour, where part of the tumour is composed of adipose tissue, into which the mucous tissue insensibly passes :* myxoma cartilagineum or myxo-chondroma, a tumour partly composed of cartilage. Cartilaginous tumours not un- commonly contain masses of gelatinous consistence, apparently derived from metamorphosis of their original structure, which are really identical with the structure of myxoma, f Myxoma fibrosum contains a large amount of fibrous connective tissue, and examples are also met with containing yellow elastic tissue. Myxoma is in general a perfectly innocent tumour, though it may recur after removal, or occur in a multiple form in the same tissue. There is no undoubted instance of its attacking different kinds of tissue simultaneously, or passing from one tissue to another by contiguity. III.—NEW GROWTH OF ADIPOSE TISSUE ; FATTY TUMOURS. The production of adipose tissue, either as tumour and as a diffused mass, is a very common process. Local accumulations of fatty tissue are found in the interior or exterior of wasted organs (of which the kidney is the best instance), but can hardly be said to constitute a. disease, except, perhaps, iu the remarkable inter- stitial production of fat in muscles known as false muscular hypertrophy. General accumulation of fat, or general hyperplasia of adipose tissue, constituting corpulence or obesity, depends mainly on nutrition. Circumscribed productions of adipose tissue are the well-known fatty tumours. Fatty tumours, or Lipomata, as they are sometimes termed, are of frequent occurrence. They consist of normal fat cells, closely packed together, and invested byarathersparingquantity of common connective tissue. Occasionally this investment is more developed, and constitutes a kind of enveloping cyst; occasionally, also, it dips down, and forms a cystoid covering to separate portions of the tumour. They occur most often singly, but not unfrequently several exist together in the subcutaneous tissue. They attain, occasionally, an enormous size, so that records speak of specimens several feet in diameter, and weighing twenty to forty pounds. Probably the largest tumour on record is a fatty tumour of which a drawing is preserved in tho Warren Anatomical Museum at iioston, U.S.A. It was much largor than the rest of tho body ol tho unfortunate woman m whom it originated; and was esti- * See “Trans. Path. Soo.,” vnl. xx., p. 343. 1839 + See Paget, “ Surgical Pathology,” second edition, p 499.NEW GROWTH OF ADIPOSE TISSUE. 140 mated to weigh 275 lb. (actual weighing being impossible), while the body of the patient was estimated at less than 100 lb.* Their most common seat is the subcutaneous connective tissue, especially in regions where fat is apt to collect, as on the buttocks, the thighs, the back, and neck, &c. They have, however, been seen part, globular; they have a peculiar doughy feel, with some degree of elasticity. They grow slowly, and occasion inconvenience only by the pressure they exert on surrounding parts : when at last this distension becomes excessive, the skin covering the tumour atten- uates, and ulcerates, and a sloughing sore may be thus produced, which may destroy life by exhaustion. It sometimes happens that a fatty tumour seated in the submucous tissue pushes as it grows the yielding membrane before it, and thus, acquiring a pedicle, hangs into the intestinal cavity. A steatoma is a fatty tumour, with a preponderating excess of areolar tissue, and hence of firmer consistence. Patty tumours are subject, though rarely, to calcareous degene- ration, and may also undergo partial transformation into the tissue of myxoma. Formation of true bone in them is rare, hut not unknown. They may also inflame and ulcerate. Fatty tumours are strictly innocent; they may be multiple, but never produce metastatic growths in distant parts. Adipose tissue from a fatty tumour. Fig. 18. in many other parts, as be- neath the scalp, in the sub- mucous tissue of the stom- ach, intestines, bronchi, and in theunderlyingconneetive tissue of the various serous and synovial membranes. In the knee-joint, especially, fatty growths have been distinguished by Muller as “ lipomata arborescentia,” in consequence of their branching form : this seems to result from their origi- nating in the connective tissue, and growing inward towards the synovial cavity. Lipomata have further been observed in the lungs, liver, and kidneys, and in the bones. The surface of lipo- mata is commonly lobulated ■—their form, for the most Catalogue of (lie Warren Anatomical Museum. Boston, 1S70, p. 642.141 _ IT.—NETT GROWTH OF CARTILAGE ; CARTILAGINOUS TUMOURS ; CHONDROMA. The pathological production of cartilage in a diffuse form may take place in the repair of fractures of bone;* in the formation of new or false articulations after dislocations, or as hypertrophy of normal cartilages, but never in the repair of cartilage which has become injured or destroyed. Outgrowths of car til aye, known as ecchondroses, are met with on the cartilages of the ribs, in the larynx or trachea, and on articular cartilages, such as the sym- physis pubis. The dendritic vegetations of joints often produce true cartilage, which then exists in the form of pendulous masses. If these become detached by natural involution or accident, they form the loose cartilages, for which operative interference is some- times necessary. Bodies of this kind are, however, not always cartilaginous, being sometimes fibrous and sometimes calcified. From these outgrowths must be clearly distinguished the true cartilaginous tumour (chondroma or enchondroma) which never grows from a pre-existing cartilage. Enchondroma.—This name was applied by Muller to certain tumours essentially consisting of cartilaginous structure, whose real nature was first discovered by him. Enchondroma forms usually a globular tumour, with a smooth or somewhat Fm. 19. tuberiform surface. Internally a section displays a structure which differs much in different cases, and is homogeneous, ex- cept in quite small tumours. Frequently some parts are gelatinous, or almost ljquid, and others are composed of fibrous and vascular connect- ive tissue. Some are composed of dense fibro-cartilage; in other cases this is replaced by an amorphous, firm intercel- lular substance, similar to hya- line cartilage. In fact, every variety of normal cartilage may be met with in these tumours ; which occasion ally preso i it ovon the peculiar form of cartilage „ , , with stellate anastnmniinoTplk Enchondroma composed of flbro-cartijage; stellate anastomosing ceils microscopic structure. (After Lebert ) tounu as a normal structure only in the cephalopoda.! Tho cartilage is in general arranged Hhitohfgy'" “8urgicaI rathology’” 8econd cdition> P- 183; Wedl. “Pathological + Paget's “ Surgical Pathology,” second edition, p. 495.142 NEW GROWTH OF CARTILAGE. Fig. 20. in numerous lobules, not larger than a pea or a bean, surrounded and separated by fibrous partitions, which contain blood-vessels. This arrangement illustrates the physiological law that a non- vascular tissue cannot be nourished at more than a certain distance from its blood-supply, and therefore cannot grow be- yond a certain size. It is said that a cartilaginous lobule some- times becomes vascular in its centre, and then grows, by the continuous addition of layers of cartilage to the outside; but this arrangement is certainly exceptional. The cells vary nth m size, from -J-gth to Enchondroma from tine lung, of pure hyaline cartilage. The growth was secon- dary to a similar tumour of the scapula. (From an original preparation.) „ . . 1800“ oi an inch m diameter. They are sometimes simple oval or round cells, with clear nuclei; sometimes compound, some- times with the double outline (showing the formation of a capsule) of normal cartilage cells; sometimes with several concentric layers; or again, they may have no obvious cell- wall, or even appear like free nuclei, which is especially the case in cartilage when about to soften. Stellate and rami- fied cells are rare, but very interesting, since they constitute a transition to the mucous tissue of myxoma. The intercellular substance is sometimes hyaline, sometimes more or less fibrillated, sometimes soft and mucous, and very various in amount. Enchondroma generally yields on boiling chondrin, like ordinary unossified cartilage, but sometimes gelatin. Three-fourths or more of all cartilaginous tumours arise from bone, sometimes in the interior (hence the name enchondroma), when they become surrounded with a kind of thin osseous cap- sule ; more rarely on the outside, under or from the periosteum (perichondroma). The bones most frequently affected are the pha- langes of the toes and fingers, with the metacarpal and metatarsal bones. In this situation the tumours are very often multiple. Cartilaginous tumours are also met with in the subcutaneous connective tissue, in muscular septa, fasciae, and tendons; further, in glandular organs, as the testicle, salivary glands, ovary, and mamma. In the lungs both primary and secondary, or metastatic, tumours have been found. They most frequently affect young persons, and are occasionally congenital. Enchondroma is of slow "growth, and does not usually attain aNEW GROWTH OP BONE. 143 large size; one instance, however, is recorded, in which the tumour weighed nine pounds and a half. It is subject to several kinds of metamorphosis; the cells may become fatty or calcified, and the basis-substance fibrous or granular, as in normal cartilage ; or the whole may become calcified ; or there may be, though this is not very frequent, a formation of true hone. Finally, the cartilage may undergo softening, a change due to mucous trans- formation of the basis-substance and fatty degeneration of the cells; the substance becomes gelatinous, honey-like, or pulpy, or may completely liquefy, and in this way cavities may be produced, and a truly cystic enchondroma result. If the tumour be near the surface there may be softening, leading to ulceration. The combination of enchondroma with some other form of tumour is not uncommon. In or near the salivary glands, especially the parotid, tumours have often been described, which are in part truly cartilaginous, in part composed of the mucous tissue described above under the head of myxoma. They are distinguished from cases of simple softening of the cartilage by the form and arrange- ment of the cells. Such tumours may "be called enchondroma myxomatodes. In this situation glandular or true adenoid struc- tm-e may also be found. Combinations of enchondroma with hpoma, with sarcoma and with true cancer, have also been described. Cartilaginous tumours were at one time thought to be without exception perfectly innocent; but, nevertheless, a few instances have been observed where a primary enchondroma was followed by metastatic growths in internal organs, especially the luugs. in some instances, as in the classical case of Sir j. Paget,* it is clear that the secondary tumours were produced by particles ot the primary growth carried to the lungs by the circulation; but there is no proof that this is always the case.f A cartilaginous tumour has also been observed to extend itself by immediate injection from bone to soft parts, spreading along the connective tissue. \ On the other hand, they have very rarely been observed to recur when once removed. From these facts the conclusion is that a cartilaginous tumour may be malignant, though the probabilities are very much against it. They do not produce any special cachexia, and produce inconvenience only by mechanical pressure, unless there should be ulceration, with profuse discharge. V.—NEW GROWTH OE BONE; OSSEOUS TUMOURS; OSTEOMA. The pathological production of bone may be a hypertrophy of pre-existing bone, in the regeneration of bone which has been destroyed; or a transformation of other tissues, especially carti- * “Med. Chir. Trans.,’’ xxxviii., 1SG5. r For other cases, see Virchow, “Die Krankhaften >-7. Also Virchow and Hirsch, “ Jahresbericht der Tnl-1 , p. 184. % Virchow. “Die Krank. Geichw.,” vol. i., p. 490. Geschwtllste.” vol. i., p, 499 H Gesammten Medicin. Itlr 1899,"144 NEW GROWTH OF BONE. lage and connective tissue; or an independent tumour. The immediate stimulus to the new growth may be repeated irritation or prolonged use, as in the ossification of tendons and fasciae, wounds and consequent inflammation, independent inflammation, the “collateral hypersemia” round diseased parts, the obscure causes summed up as senile change, or else some quite unknown cause different from these, as is usually the case with bony tumours. When bone is formed as a hypertrophy of tissue of the same kind, or to replace its loss, it is almost, if not quite invariably, formed from the periosteum; and it is in this membrane that the property, so to speak, of producing bone seems to reside, so that if the bone be removed, but the periosteum left, a perfect repro- duction will take place ; and even a portion of periosteum wholly or partially detached, will produce bone when transferred to another situation. This is remarkably shown in the modem rhinoplastic operation of transplanting, with a portion of skin from the forehead, a portion of the pericranium, so that not only a fleshy nose but a proper bony bridge is formed; as well as by the expe- riments of Ollier, who transplanted completely detached portions of periosteum to other parts of the body. The production of bone from connective tissue not in connection with a previously existing bone has often been confounded with simple calcification of that tissue, but in the following tissues undoubted bone has been observed,-—in the tendons of muscles, in intermuscular septa, especially when the muscles are exposed to friction, as the inner muscles of the thigh, in riding, or the shoulder muscles in soldiers, when pressed upon by the musket. Serous membranes, as the pericardium and the pleura, are sometimes completely ossified. The dura mater and arachnoid of the brain or spinal cord some- times contain bony plates. The hard plates in the interior of atheromatous arteries are probably never, certainly seldom, true bone; but, on the other hand, this has been seen in the gall- bladder and in the walls of hydatid cysts in the liver. The eye when atrophied from any cause, is very liable to produce bone, in the place either of the vitreous body or of the choroid. The pro- duction of bone from cartilage is seen most often in the costal and laryngeal cartilages; very rarely, if ever, in articular. The con- tinuous outgrowth of bone, and the ossifications above spoken of are very difficult to separate from the bony tumours; iu fact the difference is one of degree only. The principal outgrowth from bones which can be called distinct tumours arc exostoses and osteophytes. Beside these we have to consider those which arise in an alien soil, or heteroplastic osseous tumours. Exostoses.—An exostosis is an osseous tumour, proceeding from the bone or its periosteum, and, according to Rokitansky, homologous in texture, when fully developed, with that of its base and point of origin, whether that bo compact or spongy. Its form varies being sometimes broad and flat, sometimes round and prominent, with a narrow neck, sometimes spinous. Exostoses do not often attainNEW GROWTH OF BONE. 14o a size above that of a hen’s egg. Sometimes they are single; but often several exist together in the same individual, and even on the same bone. In texture they vary considerably from that extreme degree of density which constitutes the “ ivory exostosis” to the porosity of ordinary cancellous tissue. The compact exos- tosis “ is compact from the very first, and grows in such a way that the layers which are added to it always at once become as dense as ivory.” “ When they are minutely examined the num- ber of peripheral laminae is found to be very considerable, and the corpuscles lying amongst them are long. The Haversian canals are small, and far apart,” and the corpuscles in some parts are quite absent, in others are closely crowded together. “ The spongy exostosis proceeds from a circumscribed rarefaction or expansion of the bony tissue. It forms a tumour of cellular texture, aboundin'' with marrow, which is surrounded by a compact layer or rind.” It may originate from the compact outer layer of the bone, or from its spongy interior. In some cases a tumour of this kind contains m its interior a well-formed medullary cavity, communicating with that of the bone. The spongy exostosis may remain in the same condition, or become indurated and more similar to the compact, by the deposition of more earthy substance. If, as occasionally happens, a bony tumour grows inward into’the medullary canal of a bone, it is termed an Enostosis. Exostoses often arise without any obvious cause ; sometimes they appear to develop in consequence of a blow or strain. Sometimes they grow from many parts of the skeleton at once; as if from some constitutional cause. “In most cases the periosteum covering them is in its natural condition; ” sometimes it is thickened and unusually adherent. They are not peculiar to any period of life; those of the spongy kind have been observed even in new-born infants. Spongy exostoses are sometimes aestroyed by canes; and in a few cases the ivory exostosis has become necrosed, and been thrown off. This change must pro- ceed, no doubt, from obliteration of the Haversian canals and consequent cessation of its nutrition, and would be similar to the shedding of the antlers of the stag. Osteophytes.—To this class belong a great variety of bony growths ■which form, for the most part, in inflammatory exudation, are pretty widely spread, in many cases, over a bone, and are rather easily separable from it. In these respects, and in their greater irregularity, they differ from exostoses, which are to be regarded as outgrowths from a bone, while osteophytes seem only to be riro- auced under the influence of a bone. Osteophytes, of warty or stalactite shape, are very common in the neighbourhood of diseased joints, where tho articular surfaces are affected with caries Thev result doubtless, from ossification of the exudation, derived from the adjacent hypersemic vessels. In front of tho vertebral mints and some other synchondroses, pretty long styloid or lamell J osteophytes are frequently produced, so as oven sometimes to fom LBONY TUMOURS. 146 a kind of bony capsule around them. “ They arise from a chronic inflammation of the bones,” and while these are atrophied, are often of dense hard texture. Sometimes the osteophyte is said to be foliaceous, consisting of beautiful, delicate lamella:, arranged parallel to each other, and running transversely vertical to the axis of the bone. The flat osteophyte is sometimes an extremely thin and delicate layer (like hoar frost); sometimes it is one or two lines in thickness. It is composed of delicate fibrils and lamellae, and at first has scarce any attachment to the bone upon which it lies. “ At a later period the osteophyte is found attached to the bone by some intervening minute round pillars and plates. After having become gradually compact it unites with the bone.” Heteroplastic Osseous Tumours.—Under this head come those instances of heteroplastic production of bone where the new growth is sufficiently distinct to be called a tumour. Their occurrence in tissues, naturally predisposed to ossification, as fasciae and tendon, is not very surprising, and must be taken in connection with the continuous ossification above described. The same may be said of osseous tumours found in the neighbourhood of bones, and especially articulations, called by Virchow parosteal tumours.* But true circumscribed bony tumours have been seen in the lung, the brain, and the skin; for a fuller account of which we must refer to Virchow’s work, already quoted. Osteoid Tumours.—Beside the true bony tumours just described, there are others in which bone may occur. Some of these become osseous by the metamorphosis of fibrous or cartilaginous structure; but there is beside a distinct class of tumours growing from bone which themselves contain bone, and moreover give rise to tumours in other parts of the body having the same structure. They thus differ very much from simple osseous growths, and have accordingly been called malignant osseous tumours, or osseous cancers, or more recently osteoid sarcomata. A minute examination marks off some ex- amples of this kind as being, in truth, cancers, of which the stroma has undergone calcifica- and others as mixed forms in which cancer is combined with Osteoid sarcoma of the femur, consisting chiefly of spindle-cell At b bj commencing ossification. (After Virchow.) tion. a bony growth; but there remain other cases to which neither of these explanations applies. These tumours always arise either from * “ Die KranVlmften Gesclnrulsle,” Bd. ii. p. 91.147 NEW GROWTH OF BLOOD VESSELS. the inner layer of the periosteum or from the medulla of bone; but from their starting-point they may spread both into the bone itself and into the neighbouring soft parts, which, at first affected by a purely cellular growth, may at length become ossified. More generally, however, the tumour grows by addition of successive layers to the outside, and a very large mass, usually with a lobu- lated or irregular exterior, may thus be formed. The bony parts of the tumour are of a structure which, according to Sir J. Paget, is “true bone, but not well-formed bone;” according to others is merely a calcification of the intercellular substance; but it seems that both may be met with. The unossified parts of the tumour may be hard, but are principally composed of cells, in which the spindle form, characteristic of some forms of sarcoma predominates, but round cells and large cells of the myeloid type are also seen (Pig! 21). It is on this ground that Yirchow and other recent writers classify these tumours under the head of sarcoma. Secondary tumours, precisely similar in structure to the primary growth, may occur in other parts, most frequently in the lymphatic glands ; but sometimes, without passing through the lymphatic system, in the lungs. While in the former case there can be no doubt that the generalization is effected by the lymphatic channels, there is great leason to think that in the latter the secondary growths arise from portions mechanically transported through the veins and pulmonary artery.* VI.—NEW GROWTH OF BLOOD VESSELS; VASCULAR TUMOUR; ANGIOMA. The Pathological Production of Plood Vessels.—Before we proceed to describe vascular tumours, which constitute our next class, we shall give some account of the development of new vessels in inflammatory exudations and other new formations. Two opinions have been held as to the mode in which their formation takes place. By some, as Paget, Travers, and Simon, they were con- sidered to be formed by “ outgrowth from adjacent vessels.” Small dilatations appear on the side of a vessel, increase in length, and at last meet and coalesce with similar diverticula in their vicinitv; in this way a new capillary loop is formed, and the process is earned on in the same way. On the other hand, Bokitansky, vogel, and Dr. Walshe agreed in regarding the new vessels as originating spontaneously in the exuded blastema. Bokitansky nas, however, given up this opinion so far as new growths and inflammatory false membranes are concerned, but still believes in the occasional endogenous production of blood-cells in certain cystic structures. With this exception, the belief in the indepen- dent lormation of blood or blood vessels is now generally given up f origin of certain blood-corpuscles to l, in a recent memoir (“ QuarterlyNEW GROWTH OF BLOOD VESSELS. 148 According to Forster, there are two methods by which new blood vessels are produced. The first method is by the elongation of vessels previously existing. The capillary loops are drawn out to eight or ten times their original length, and when parts of con- tiguous loops come into contact with one another they unite. In this way a new anastomosing network of capillaries is formed, and the actual number of vessels is very greatly increased without any independent new formation. This process is seen only in hyper- trophies of existing organs, in inflammatory growths, and in tumours. It probably corresponds to the normal method of increase of vessels in the growing organism. The second process described by Forster is the independent formation of blood vessels out of cells—that is to say, the cells of the connective tissue. These bodies sometimes proliferate, and the new elements thus Fig. 22. Formation of a new capillary vessel in the tail of the tadpole. a, A vascular loop, partially connected by a protoplasmic thread, b. The proto- plasmic thread become thicker and longer, c, The same partially hollowed out d. The same converted into a hollow tube with two nuclei. The whole process occupied twelve hours. (After Arnold, Virchow’s “ Archiv,” vol. liii.) produced arrange themselves in rows, till they at length form solid columns, or cylinders. These cylinders becoming hollowed out at the extremity by which they are in contact with previously exist- ing vessels are converted into tubes, and permit the entrance of blood In other cases a single connective-tissue corpuscle is the foundation of a new vessel. It enlarges till its prolongations become wide enough to admit blood corpuscles, and attaching itseU to a previously existing vessel, establishes a communication with it. Thus the corpuscle itself, with its prolongations, becomes a capil- lary vessel, the walls of which are nothing but the original cell wall and its prolongation. This account can only be accepted by those who reeard a connective-tissue cell as a space, ant 1 s pro longations as fine tubes or “ plasmatic canals. It is a so asser c that the connective-tissue corpuscles, with then- plasmatic channels, Joum. of Microsc. Science.” 1873, vol. sUL, N.8., p. 169). belitwes h the endogimous production of blood corpuscles within inflamed toe and cartilage cells. To the same effect, Commit and Strieker, “ Wiener Med. Jalnb., 1-. 1, p. 42s.VASCULAR TUMOURS. 149 may open up communication between two adjacent capillary loops, and thus increase the number of vessels. Still more recently the process of new formation of capillaries has been observed, actually proceeding under the miscroscope in the tissues of living animals by Strieker, Golubew, Arnold, and others. Arnold observed the reproduction of a tadpole’s tail, which had been amputated, and traced the series of changes represented in our figure. Solid protoplasmic buds were seen to grow from the walls of previously existing blood vessels, forming cords, and by their junction loops, which ultimately became hollowed out, and formed capillary vessels. The figure shows the changes observed in a single capil- lary outgrowth within twelve horn’s. Newly-formed capillaries are distinguished from those previously existing by their much greater width and often irregular outline. Their walls sometimes contain more numerous nuclei. Vascular tumours are made up (it may be with other constituents also) of newly-formed blood vessels, or partly of previously existing blood vessels enlarged and altered. There are two kinds of them:—(1) Those composed of vessels similar to normal blood vessels, held together by more or less connective tissue; they are known by the names of simple vascular tumour, angioma simplex, telangiectasis, or angiectoma; (2) Those composed of a system of communicating spaces, with simple fibrous walls lined by an epithelium, similar to the cavernous tissue of erectile organs s known as cavernous tumours, angioma cavernosum, nsevus cavernosus. To the first class belong the ordinary nsevi, either congenital or belonging to early life. These are flat, or slightly elevated struc- tures, rarely distinctly projecting, which occur especially on the skin of the face, head, or neck, sometimes on mucous surfaces. They are composed mainly of contorted and convoluted capil- laries, sometimes abruptly dilated or varicose, but not without small veins and arteries. Congenital nsevi usually waste and pass away in the first months of life; but they may, by the multiplica- tion of vessels and absorption of their walls, pass into the next or cavernous form. Cavernous tumours are, however, more frequently of independent growth, though rarely congenital. They are alveolar in structure, being composed of a number of cavities communicating freely with one another in all directions. When cut into they usually collapse from the escape of blood; but if the blood should happen to be coagulated within them, they may form masses of very consider- able weight and solidity. This cavernous structure appears to be always in communication both with veins and arteries, but not always by channels of the same capacity; the openings into the venous channels being generally much wider than the small branches by which blood enters from the arteries. The epitholium by which the cavities are lined, has sometimes been mistaken for cancer cells. The tumours are sometimes clearly defined and150 NEW GROWTH OF MUSCULAR TISSUE. incapsulated, but more often inseparable from the surrounding tissue. External cavernous tumours occur either in the skin or in the subcutaneous fatty tissue. Of internal organs they occur most frequently in the liver, where, however, they are by no means common. They have also been observed in the spleen, kidneys, suprarenal capsules, intestines, uterus, and ovaries, and on the inner surface of the bladder, and are sometimes multiple.* It is only in the rarest instances that they lead to haemorrhage or any serious affection, and they are strictly innocent in their charac- ter. It is probable, however, that under the name of fungus haema- todes instances of this disease have been confounded with cancer. VII.—NEW GROWTH OF MUSCULAR TISSUE ; MUSCULAR TUMOURS ; MYOMA. Of the two kinds of muscular fibre normally existing in the body, the striated is very rarely formed under pathological con- ditions. It is, however, produced for the restoration of muscles which have been wasted or degenerated by disease, and more Fig. 23. Section of muscular tumour of uterus. rarely when loss of substance has resulted from a wound. In the latter case, muscle is often replaced by connective tissue. In the hypertrophy of muscles there is also a true new growth of mus- cular fibres. Tumours consisting of striated muscular fibre are among the greatest pathological rarities. The only cases m which this tissue composed the great mass of a tumour are those of a tumour from the testicle of a man aged eighteen, observed by • For illustrative cases sec Trans. Path. Soc.,” 1860, xi. 267 ; 1869, xx. 208.STEW GROWTH OF NERVOUS TISSUE. 151 Rokitansky, aud two. cases of similar tumours in the head of a foetus. Striated muscle has in a very few cases been observed as a part of tumours of different structure. New growth of smooth muscular fibre has never yet been ob- served in the restoration of lost parts or the healing of wounds. It undoubtedly takes place in the hypertrophies of structures which normally contain it, as in the enlargement of the uterus during pregnancy, and in hypertrophy of the prostate, the bladder, the coats of arteries, or the stomach. Tumours consisting of smooth muscular fibre are most fre- quently met with in the uterus, forming the growths commonly called fibrous tumours.* They have recently received the name of myoma, or fibromyoma, or, for the sake of distinction from striated muscle, leiomyoma. These tumours consist of smooth muscular fibres, with variable proportions of connective tissue, which latter increases with the age of the tumours, the younger consisting mainly of muscular fibre cells. The characteristic anatomical peculiarity is, of course, to be found in these elongated cells; and though they have sometimes been mistaken for fibro-plastic or spindle-shaped cells, the distinction lies in the oblong or staff- shaped nuclei of the muscular tissue. These tumours are vascular, and they possess, from their muscular structure, a true contrac- tility. They sometimes attain in the uterus an immense size, but after a certain age are very liable to calcification. They are met with also in other organs containing smooth muscular fibre, such as the prostate, the intestines, stomach, and in the walls of veins. Muscular tumours are strictly innocent, though they often occur in considerable number; and almost the only inconvenience they occasion is that arising from weight and mechanical pressure. They are also very apt to cause haemorrhage. vm.—NEW GROWTH OF NERVOUS TISSUE; NERVOUS TUMOURS; NEUROMA. New formation of nerve tissue may take place as a restoration of destroyed tissue, or in the form of a distinct tumour. The healing of divided nerves is effected by the formation of new nerve fibres, which do not differ in structure from those previously existing. It appears also possible for ganglionic or grey nervous tissue to be completely restored, as in animals tho lower part of the spinal cord has been regenerated when experimentally destroyed. A corresponding process has not yet been observed in man. Nervous Tumour: Neuroma.—Tumours composed of nervous tissue are not very common; they most often occur in connection with the spinal nerves, more rarely on cerebral nervos, or on the Bristowe, “ Trans. Path. Soc.," iv. p. 218.NEW GEOWTH OF GLANDT7LAE TISSUE. 152 sympathetic system. It is important not to confound them with, hbrous or other tumours, which may be attached to or start from a nerve, though these have all been described under the common, name of neuroma. The true neuroma is composed of nerve fibres, generally resembling those of the nerve trunk, to which it is attached, and therefore medullated or ordinary fibres. In rare cases, however, Virchow has observed tumours composed of the non-medullated fibres, or so-called fibres of Eemak. The swell- ings which form at the divided extremities of nerves after am- putation are instances of true neuroma, and similar tumours in the course of nerves sometimes have a traumatic origin. Iso- lated masses of ganglionic nervous tissue, in the form of tumours, have occasionally been found in the brain, especially m the walls of the ventricles: they are perhaps congenital. Ganglionic ner- vous tissue has also, in a very few cases, been found in the congenital cystic tumours of the testicle and ovary, and in com- posite sacral tumours; but these are doubtless instances of abnormal development rather than of what is commonly under- stood by disease. With these exceptions, nervous tumours never occur except in connection with nerve tissue; that is to say, they are never heteroplastic. They are also entirely without any approach to malignity, though they may be multiple. IX.—NEW GEOWTH OF GLANDULAE TISSUE, GLANDULAE TUMOUES, ADENOMA. The tissue characteristic of secreting glands, or cavities lined with a secreting epithelium, may constitute the material of a new growth, and this may be either a hypertrophy of a glandular mass normally existing, or an independent structure. In the former case, which is by far the more common, the newly-formed glandular tissue resembles that of which it is an extension. When occurring as a distinct tumour, the new glandular tissue still preserves the original type, and in some cases discharges the same functions as the original gland; though in other cases the excretory duct is deficient. Glandular tissue is very often a com- ponent of tumours which are formed mainly of some other tissue —as for instance the fibrous polypi of mucous surfaces, which often contain glandular tissue. Perhaps the best example of this kind of tumour is the chronic mammary tumour, of which mention will be made hereafter, but similar structures are found in connection with the salivary glands, the liver, the follicles, and mucous glands of mucous surfaces. Glandular tumours never occur either primarily or secondarily except in close connection with secreting glands. The growth does not extend to the neighbouring parts, and they never give rise to other growths in distant and unlike organs, though they sometimes form an approach anatomically to the structure of trueTISSUE RESEMBLIN'G THAT OE LYMPHATIC GLANDS. 153 cancer Their other peculiarities will be best described in connec- tion with the special organs from which they arise. S. NEW GROWTH OF TISSUE RESEMBLING THAT OF LYMPHATIC GLANDS, OR CYTOGENOUS TISSUE ; LYMPHADENOMA, OR LYMPHOMA. The structure of lymphatic glands has of late years been very carefully investigated, and, as need hardly be mentioned, is found to bear no resemblance but in name to that of true or secret- ing glands. Its most impor- F,°- 2U tant feature, or rather that which most concerns us here, is the presence in the follicular portion of a delicate fibrous network, or stroma, composed of fine threads, with occa- sional nuclei and corpuscles at their intersections, in the meshes of which the lymph cor- puscles are enclosed (Pig. 24). While the same type of struc- ture is preserved, there may be considerable variation in the relative proportion of the cor- puscles and the containing net- work. The bands of the latter may even come to exceed in thickness the diameter of the corpuscles. The structure will then resemble what is repre- sented in Fig. 25. This form of tissue is seen in lymphatic glands, which are the seat of chronic inflammation or the peculiar enlargement men- tioned on the next page, and o/strnchirp nT ^ro1wths of cytogenous tissue. This peculiar type cvW.c ’ Whlch has recelved the of adenoid tissue and cytogenous connech-PR-hafiic j , , , ... Stroma or network of a lymphatic tumour of the mediastinum. «, Angular connective-tissue corpuscles forming part of the stroma, i, Free leuco- cytes or lymph corpuscles. A branched blood vessel is seen on the right of the figure. (From an original preparation.) nas received tne names of adenoid tissue and but 7«n°Ui “nnectivo -tissue, is not confined to lymphatic glands toUk 8CKh ln°ther organs not always regarded as belonging intcsti rt;rySt0m* Ih,t‘S0htury and a«mmatcd follicles ofthe like ntR08’ t^e thymus, and the tonsils are examples. This tissue andloeofbetSUSTP t °f, hyPw'trophy or hyperplastic growth conta n it i P^ ° I,r°ductl0n ln parts which do not norma lv 4s rausr&srte ■— “r rj— ycimauem ue called tumours Uyperpiaitic Production of Cytogenoue Tissue.-Hypertrophy ofLYHPHADENOMA. 154 (Dickinson, “ Trans. Path. Soe.,” vol. xxi., 1870.) cytogenous tissue may occur in any of tlie situations where it is normally found. In the lymphatic glands this hypertrophy may attain considerable import- Fig. 25. ance. Simple enlargement of these organs takes place either as a consequence of inflammation in the parts connected with them or independently; hut the en- largement consecutive to inflammation, or other morbid processes, being usually single and not per- manent, does not properly come under consideration here. Idiopathic enlarge- ments of lymphatic glands usually occur in young persons, and very fre- quently end in a peculiar kind of degeneration called scrofulous; but as this pro- cess has a natural termina- tion, and may completely pass away by suppura- tion or otherwise, scrofulous products cannot be regarded as strictly speaking new growths. The case is different, however, with another form of enlargement, m which no _ tendency to softening or caseous degeneration is observed, but in which the glands form hard, tough elastic masses of a white or yellowish colour, and are usually adherent together m clusters. Simulta- neously with this affection of the lymphatics are usually found new growths of cytogenous tissue m other organs, especially in the spleen, so that the process constitutes a general disease, to which we refer again below. Hypertrophy of the cytogenous fassue of the intestines is seen as a consequence of fevers and inflammatory processes giving rise to enlargement of the solitary and agmin. t glands It is also met with as an independent affection, in that disease in which the lymphatic system, spleen, &c., are usually also mVHdfoplastic Production of Cytogenous Tiss}^.A^°lU^e^ growth of cvtogenous tissue is an accompaniment of * disease usually starting with the lymphatm glands, ^chJms received the names of anremia lymphatics, disease. The lymphatic glands are growths affected, and in the manner above describe , ., diflRcult are almost as frequent in the spleen (wheie, 11 . ’ /■ li 8am0 to distinguish them from hypertrophy of normal tosue of ^esamfl kind), and are also found in the liver, kidneys, intestines, lung., . Cytogenous tissue, with thickened _ stroma.CYSTOID TUMOURS. 155 The new growths are seldom distinct, but so intimately connected with the substance of the organ as rather to resemble an infiltration They have much resemblance to the deposits of white blood cells met with in cases of leucocythmmia, but in the disease in question an increase m the number of white cells in the blood is not ob- served. Sometimes the newly-formed growth resembles the morbid form of cytogenous tissue previously described (Fig. 25), but some- times the cells very greatly predominate. Lymphoma and Lymphosarcoma—Distinct tumours, composed of cytogenous tissue, unconnected with any general condition of that tissue throughout the body, are not Very common. The most notable growths of this kind are seen in the mediastinum Here they may arise from the lymphatic glands, or possibly from the remnant of the thymus gland. They sometimes remain isolated sometimes infiltrate neighbouring organs. When a lymphatic tumour has the structure of a normal lymphatic gland, it is called a lymphoma, men the proportion of cells is very large, Virchow lias applied the name lymphosarcoma, as making an approach to sarcomatous tumours. Many such tumours were formerly described as medullary cancer. J We must accordingly class these growths sometimes malignant. >18 truly named cancer, among those which are CYSTOID TUMOURS. in consequence distended byT.S^'156 CYSTOID TtniOTTBS. The contents of these cysts are of very different appearance, and the names of meliceris, hygroma, atheroma, gummy twmour, have been given to express a honey-like, watery, pultaceous, or jelly- like condition of the retained secretion. Examined microscopically, epithelial scales, free fatty matter, tablets of cholesterine, crystals of triple phosphate, and small hairs in various proportions, the epithelium, however, usually predominating, are found to consti- tute the contents of these cysts. The cyst itself appears as a thin, fibrous layer, lined on its inner side with, epithelium. "W e have seen one case in which the epithelium in several tumours had accumulated in a very thick layer on the interior of the true cyst, giving rise to the appearance of a thick-walled cavity with con- tained matters of the ordinary kind; microscopic examination, however, showed that there was no real thickening of the cyst itself. The scaly particles of epithelium seem to fill themselves occasionally with a pellucid refracting matter, apparently of oily nature; they are mingled in some cases with granular globules, not unlike pus corpuscles, or if inflammation has occurred, wiui pus itself. This, at least, is the case with comedones, which are of similar nature. (2) Mucous encysted tumours: these are essentially similar to the preceding, and are formed by obstruction of the duct of a mucous follicle, or small conglomerate gland, lhey con- tain usually a glutinous mucous fluid. They occur m the bps, the mouth, in the cervix uteri, the Meibomian glands, and in the vagina. * Ranula is an exactly analogous affection of the duct oi the sublingual gland. (3) Some of the renal and mammary and probably most of the hepatic cysts are produced m the same way, bv local obliteration of the duct canals at two points, and disten- sion of the intermediate portion. (4) Single cysts m the ovary are perhaps formed by dropsical distension of the Graafian vesicles; this may also be the origin of others which are after- wards compound. (5) Cysts in the thyroid gland are, no doubt, often formed by simple expansion of the normal vesicles, (b) Certain bursae (not of new formation) become distended by a per- sistent increase of their secretion, and constitute cystic tumours. Mr. Simon states that the contents of these, instead of being hum, are occasionally solid, the albuminous secretion having been re- placed by a fibre-forming (probably fibrinous) blastema. P Under the second head we notice—(1) Simple serous cysts, and svnovial bursae. These arise in some cases evidently from the effect of pressure or friction, in others without any such( cause. In the case of synovial bursae we observe that a kind ot cP^e sation takes place in the areolar tissue of the part, out the limits of the commencing bursae; within this theXid are gradually absorbed, while a secretion at the sain • Wc found the contents of an encysted tumour of the j'e°un™f nudUtiidcs'of White Cooper, to consist of a colourless, tiunsluc^t mjdter, cJLmlnted in sonic delicate granulous g-lobules, imbedded m a clear fluid, winch £ & measure by acetic acid. i i iCYSTOLD TUMOURS. 157 takes place, and at last the cavity is lined by a more or less perfect epithelium, and the new formation is complete. We can discern the purpose for which such cysts are formed, the end they serve but we have no idea of the nature of the action which determines their formation. With regard to the others, which form in situa- tions removed from pressure, as in the broad ligament of the ovary, Fig. 26. o®©e®®®©H©o0© -O Simple serous cyst, and epithelial particles from its interior—from vicinity of ovaries. the cause of their production is utterly unknown. They consist ot a wall of fibrous tissue, varying in thickness in some measure according to the size of the cyst, condensed so as to form a smooth surface internally, and lined by a thin layer of epithelium, which has generally appeared to us to consist of nuclear particles, with imbedding granulous matter, and not of perfect cells. The import ot this condition of epithelium appears to have reference to the rapid secretory action which takes place. The fluid contents of these cysts may be poor or rich in albumen, may contain abun- dance of cell forms, or very few, and maybe either loaded with cholesterme, or devoid of it. We can confirm the statements of Mr. Simon, that the granule cells, which are sometimes very numerous, are the source of the colour of the dark coffee-ground- nhe matter which is sometimes present in large quantity. >mme of these simple cysts contain quantities of fat, hair, teeth, hor Tfu hn.e’ 80 tllat 8°me Sood authorities have expressed their Oeliel that they were the remains of a partially absorbed foetus, this is certainly not the case, but their occurrence is of extreme in- res , and when the growth is ovarian suggests very strongly that the normai reproductive function of this organ exerts itself by the development of these productions within its germ-bearing cavities, nder the influence of some unnatural stimulus. This, of course applies especially to the cysts alluded to under the first head as developed from the Graafian vesicles, but it is Rokitansky’s opinion aat cysts of new formation may develop like products also. Sir J -raget states, that m these cases the wall of the cyst acquires in' 5" character of true akin, with hair follilla SZ and sometimes perspiratory glands, and infers that “ the struc into itsand SfCC1'etl0,n8,forrnod on this P°rtion of the cyst are shed as oftl T 7’ and <^reaccumulate, and that they remain, when p har!pens- thf cutaneous structure on which they are pro- duced has degenerated and disappeared.” Several simnln &£* to<r»‘h« in the ovary” thi. „„ ,h„,™d co3 ? S fSes! W 7 rG3Ult fl'0m dovcdoPment of the GraafianCYSTOED TUMOURS. 158 Cysts like those of the ovary, containing skin or its products (hair, fatty matter from sebaceous glands), and called by Sir J. Pa°*et cutaneous •proliferous cysts, are occasionally found in other parts, as the subcutaneous tissue, the testicle, lung, and other viscera, and even within the skull. They appear to be always congenital, and their origin has been explained by the supposition that at an early stage of development a portion of the integument becomes enclosed by the growth of the surrounding parts, and, finally, quite separated from the surface. In one very remarkable instance, a cyst containing teeth and bone was found in the anterior mediastinum. Simple cysts nou unfrequently occur in the mammary gland, or rather in the dense areolar tissue investing it; they have a wall of condensed fibrous tissue, and according to Mr. Birkett, are lrned by a characteristic epithe- lium, consisting of hexagonal particles. Their contents are either limpid, opalescent, non-albuminous fluid, or a tenacious, slimy, opaque, variously coloured, and concentrated solution of albumen. When combined with a peculiar growth of gland tissue advancmg into their cavity, these tumours constitute the sero-cystic sarcoma, of which we shall speak more particularly when we come to the morbid anatomy of the mammary gland. Cystic formation may take place in various kinds of tumours, m fibrous, carcinomatous, sarcomatous, and may be a more or less prominent phenomenon. (2) Compound cysts. The chief seat of these is m the ovanes, where they present two principal modes of development. In one Fig. 27. of these the parent cyst, which for the most par contonesto pre- dominate in size, gives origin to a second generataon of cyste, aad then again to a third, and so on. The consecutive series (cyst are developed in the walls of their parents, butlo :> and occupy their cavities; the result is a mufidocula mass macle up of numberless cysts which are filled with very’ These may be tolerably limpid and clear, ^ ^tTeles or greenish ; may contain a very large number of W very few; may he variously coloured by I?.00 loaded with formation, or even replaced by a solid klas , occur in blood corpuscles; fat, hair, teeth, and bone, JPAPILLARY GROWTHS, OR PAPILLOMATA. 159 these, as well as in the simple cysts. The partitions between the various cysts sometimes give way, and thus a tumour is produced which internally seems imperfectly divided into compartments. In the other mode of development the secondary cysts grow inward into the cavity of the parent, which they fill up more or less com- pletely ; a tertiary race behaves toward them in the same wav and so on. This form may be combined with the preceding Eokitansky describes a kind of villous, or cauliflower growth which originates on the wall of the secondary or parent cyst and may mcrease so as not only to fill the cyst cavity, but to break through its wall and vegetate in the cavity of the peritoneum.* The impression left on the mind of the observer after a minute examination of the compound cysts, is, that they are of the lowest type of organization, resulting apparently from a depraved, de- generate formative action, which, withdrawing blastema from its proper uses in the system, hurries it with a wasteful expenditure into useless and injurious elementary shapes. How precious is the stringency of the law of our organic constitution which is comparatively seldom infringed by such terrible aberrations ! It the *enden°y t0 cyst formation most often appears m the existence of several together; it is certainly far VcTr'7 ' findsevfa1’ whe.ther °f new formation, or result- m from distension of natural cavities, than to find a solitary one. It should be mentioned here that the formation of cysts may anCdU1inntb?ry WS °1 gl'0Wth’ both “docent and malignant^ rvdn th 7 “!Xed forms result> such as cystic enchondroma go-sarcoma, cysto-carcmoma, &c. The significance and general w£htbS tf gr°Wt>9.Wl11 be. determined by the structure with wnich the cj stic growth is combined. PAPILLARY GROWTHS, OR PAPILLOMATA. ^„^le,Re, growths, which have also been called epidermic and C i r™’^8^6 a weif-marked class of new forma- inf-Ar’ aI'e fd very frequent occurrence, and much practical mterest. Warts and callosities of the skin are minor instances of ducef bvP’ and CTS181t fmply m thickening of the epidermis, pro- of bfocjf rrlat!d layTr ltS, scales’ As an increased flow the -11 tbe Part must take place it is not surprising that advanre! ? C°nU1? beneath should, in some of the°more vanced cases, become hypertrophied and elone-aterl + Project upwards into the little tumour. In condvlomafn ,r, t0 the°orifi ’ aDdf 8imilal' V°g0tatlons’ which al'e apt to foim about! the onfaces of mucous canals, under the irritation of syphilitic $*5? at p. 404, Of a of . vast numbers of TUMWul.feS. to be.?f th“ W. It consisted basement membrane enclosing celia.’ ^ ls apparently of160 PAPILLARY GROWTHS, OR PAPILLOMATA. and other discharges, the surface is commonly observed to be lobulated or papillar, the interior marked by a vertical striation, while some vascular ramifications extend up into each papilla. The structure of these is beautifully figured by M. Lebert. The surface of each papilla, as shown in his plates, is formed by a layer of closely imbricated epithelial scales; while the deeper parts consist of either less flattened cells, or, according to our own observation, of nuclei, lying close together in a granulous and amorphous blastema. This interior nucleated granulous tissue, we believe, is continued downward to the base of the growth, and encroaches on the corium of the skin; for we have never been able to observe any clear demarcation between the vascular loops and the surrounding cell formation. Almost the very same description applies to those tumours which are most common on the lips, and whose cancerous nature one has often too much reason to suspect. These attain a much larger size, and are more manifestly vascular than the preceding, and their papillae are more branched and grouped together, so that the surface resembles somewhat that of a cauliflower. We believe it is not always possible to say, from the structural characters of these growths, whether or not they are malignant, or whether, if removed, they will return again. In fact they pass by insensible gradations into Fig. 28. A (a) Papillary prominence of epithelial growth. (b) Epithelial tumour from lip. (From Lebert.) the malignant form of epithelial growth, which wo shall afterwards describe as epithelioma. Horns are epidermic productions, winch are occasionally formed upon the head, the forehead, or some other part of the body. They originate in the sebaceous follicles, whose epithelium, thrown off in unnatural and excessive quantities, ana mixed with the fatty secretion, forms a conical mass, which pro- trudes from the orifice in the skin, and is pushed onwards com161 MELANOSIS AND MELANOTIC TUMOURS. tinually by fresh accretions to its base. M. Lebert quotes a case m which the horn was six or seven inches broad at its base, and six inches long. A contusion, or ulceration of the skin, preceded the appearance of the tumour. A specimen was shown to the Pathological Society by Mr. Wagstaffe,* of a horn which had been Fig. 29. Horny growth from the face of a twelve months. It, started from ( Trans. Path. Soc.” xvi. p. 267.) woman aged seventy-five, which had been growing an old wart, which had existed for many years. ST'S® for.fortJ years on .tile leg of a woman aged eighty. It inches in length f°Iln’ ^ uncolled would have been fourteen MELANOSIS AND MELANOTIC TUMOURS. uJh!.ar,0tic Iumours are not unfrequently spoken of by various class,.'"' buftbor^7 m their arrangements a place with other sneak?™ * t r1ST0IT great reason to doubt whether, properly aXdt ^ri8UCh t}I!ng This is ludeed generally canp, r *’ i tuniours thus described being really cases of melanotic Virchowmofan ° frC°T’ A isdated cases arc given by naturolT f melanotic growths occurring in situations Pia rnft 7 p.r,edls}10sed to Pigmentation, such as the choroid the wW ter’ tf!° skln’ &c\ ’ but ho admits that all these are liable comatouT ehLat * St'U-° f d(3Y.eloPment, to assume a sar- SafSiaiiS ‘ Trans' ra(1>- Soc.,” 1870, vol. xxi. p. 350. M162 MELANOSIS AND MELANOTIC TUMOURS'. 3d. i'.=M Melanotic deposit in eells of an engorged lung. Some of tlie cells contain oil drops. Fio. 81. and in new formations of any kind. The pigment is in the form of minute granules, or sometimes of almost dust-hke molecules. It very commonly occurs free, though the particles may be more or less closely massed together, but is very often also contained in the interior of cells. There is nothing at all peculiar in these pigment-containing cells. They seem to be simply the natural cells of the organ, or of the new growth in which the deposit has occurred, l ig- ment granules are seen in the same part, both free and contained in ceils, so that it is clear that their presence u. the cells is of no special import Rokitansky gives cells (often in the epithelial particles}, and in the connecting areolar tissue-. When contained in the air-cayities it is in all probability chiefly inhaled as carbonaceous matter, floating in the air. We examined some time ago the lungs of a man who had been a worker in a gunpowder manufactory, and found them to contain a very remarkable quantity of free black matter. We are inclined to think the latter is not unfrequently the case, and for the following reasons (1) It seems quite impossible to be- lieve that the very considerable quan- tity of black matter often found m the interlobular tissue of the lungs of old persons, should have proceeded from local congestions and extravasa- tions, especially when there is no p trace of previous inflammatory ac- | tion. (2) We are well acquaintedi -with the changes which hsematmei does undergo in the splenic tissue and in the renal t.bule., when blood escaped we here for meet commonly otoorrod the ^colo.m ^ 1'“r™“rSrpro"«Son ofW fiT %%£&&££ A | Branched connective-tissue corpus- cles from the pia mater of upper part of spinal cord, containing mucli pigment. The specimen was from a case of Addison’s disease, hut only showed an exaggeration ot tiie normal pigmentation of the part. (From an original preparation.}MELANOSIS AND MELANOTIC TUMOURS. 163 the side of a vessel; so also in the abundant formation of black pigment which takes place in the liver of the frog at certain times there is not the least reason for regarding it as specially derived from the red colouring matter of the globules, but much more for supposing it to proceed from some of the highly carbonized matters contained in the liquor sanguinis. Small particles of coal, having the peculiar “pitted ” structure of coniferous wood, have been found in the interior of the lungs of coal workers by Traube. It has, however, been shown that the occurrence of minute haemorrhages is another cause of the pig- mentation of lungs.* In this instance, as in many others, truth lies intermediate between opposite opinions. It also occurs in the bronchial glands, its quantity in them being usually in proportion to that in the lungs: it is here raiely contained in cells. In the mucous membrane of the stomach and intestines, ot the uterus, and occasionally of the air-passages, it is generally the result of the irritation of chronic catarrh, and is derived from altered hsematine. In the mesen- teric glands, co-existing with such deposits in the mucous tissue, it produces a slaty grey, or still darker discoloration, spotted or uniformly diffused. In the sympathetic ganglia, in the skin. either naturally, in the dark races, or as the local discolora- tions, termed “melasma.” In new formations, as intravascular coagula, atheromatous patches, and their cicatrices, in hsemor- rhagic masses, false membranes of inflammatory origin, tubercle, especially the haemorrhagic variety, colloid matter, and can- cerous growths. Lastly, melanotic matter occurs in fluid exuda- tions, and in the cavities of cysts. Eokitansky is of opinion a , .°^ ^e ^lack pigment from the colouring a er o the blood is a settled point. We are rather inclined to agree with him than with Dr. Walshe, who thinks “that the relation of true melamc cell pigment to the constituents of the blood is altogether unknown.” It is quite certain that, in au the instances above mentioned, except that of the air cavities i , ,e tongs, the melanic matter proceeds in some way from the j the■ question is, howf Is there first extravasation ot e blood, exudation of its hsematine, and conversion of this into e pigment, or is this produced from the liquor sanguinis, in some unknown way of secretion P The chemical composition of melanotic matter is not accuratelv Known, but is found to differ very much in different specimens. The black pigment of the eye was found by Lehmann to contain A per cent, ot iron. All analyses, however, show a large proportion of carbon—at least oO per cent. It is quite insoluble in water, alcohol1 s ow? °[.dlli“8: but clocomP°sod by strong nitric acid and slowly dissolved by strong alkalies. b and It thus appears impossible to separate a distinct class of mcla- • Rindfleiseli. “ Pathologische Gewebelehre,” p. 356. First editionMALIGNANT TUMOURS. 164 notic tumours. Those to which this name is sometimes given will be described under the head of melanotic cancer, or melanotic sarcoma. Both may have malignant properties, but the former is a comparatively rare form of growth. MALIGNANT TUMOURS. In attempting to give a sketch of cancerous or malignant tumours, we think the best plan will be to take a typical specimen, which presents all the characters of the genus strongly developed, and to point out what these characters are. We shall afterwards notice the several species, and endeavour to show how the distinguishing features gradually become effaced, until the formation, as often happens, is, or appears, almost identical with those of a benignant nature. A tumour, of the species called encephaloid, is certainly the TmpaSei'ypa of cancer. It is of rapid growth, often attaining m a short time a very large size. Such a tumour is seldom solitary, but coexists with other similar ones in the same and m different organs. If extirpated it is sure to return, and probably diffuse itself more widely than before. It poisons the lymphatic current passing from it, and induces growths of like nature in the glands which that current traverses. It affects the general system with a peculiar cachexia, marked by languor, emaciation, debility, and a sallow complexion. It is very apt to infiltrate adjacent textures with its own substance, and, by absorbing their nourishment tor itself, to occasion their atrophy; and, lastly, it tends, when exposed, to break down by a kind of decay, and to pour out pro- fuse, exhausting discharges of serous, samous or bloody fluid. Such is cancer in its most malignant form. Of the above-men- tioned characters, those which seem to us most nearly paftiogno- monic, are the tendency to infiltrate adjoining parts, to affect the glands traversed by the issuing lymph current, to reproduce similar growths in distant parts, and to return after removal, it these four characters are decidedly exhibited by any tumour there can be scarce any doubt of its malignant nature. It is to be remarked that all these characteristics are dynamic, and no, structural. They result from the invisible qualities of the new formation, its mode of vegetation, dissemination, and reproduction, not from any peculiarity of form or arrangement of ^ ^tic Whatever these might be, a tumour, which behaved as we have just described, would proclaim its malignant nature. Experience has shown that these characters may be several kinds of growth, which differ very considerablj in their general appearance and in their minute anatom} , so . of structure is by any means peculiar to or charactei is n JP* , tumours. There are, however, some structures which ^me almost certain to possess malignant properties, and others w . to do so: while in some forms of tumour (as the simple histioid165 SARCOMATOUS TUMOURS. tumours) malignancy is either quite unknown or exceedingly rare. The tumours which are par excellence malignant are those commonly called cancers, or carcinomatous tumours. We include under this head (1) encephaloid cancer ; (2) scirrhus; (3) colloid cancer ; and, (4) epithelioma; meaning by these names particular kinds of structure, anatomically definable. About these structures it may he said generally that they are almost sure to exhibit, either early or late in their course, the characters we have called malignant. There is a second group of tumours with respect to which we cannot make so absolute a proposition. They are yery likely to be malignantj but, on the other hand, it is quite possible that they may remain confined to one spot, or be completely cured by removal. (Such tumours have been called semi-maliunant, a term very objectionable, if taken to imply that they possess a peculiar property m a modified degree, but admissible, if meaning that they are less likely to be malignant than those tumours included in our first group). These may be called sarcomata, or sarcomatous tumours, and include the following forms (1) Spindle-celled sar- coma, or recurrent fibroid tumour; (2) round-celled, or medullary sarcoma; (3) myeloid tumour ; with other less important forms, these two groups include all the forms of tumour in which malignant properties are common. The rare instances in which the history ot the simple histioid tumours resembles that of malignant growths, have been sufficiently considered, when speaking of those tumours. Since the sarcomatous tumours form a transition from innocent ffimours to true cancers, it will be convenient to consider thorn SARCOMATOUS TUMOURS. Sarcomatous tumours constitute a group, which it must be allowed somewhat ill defined. The fibrous group on the one hand, and the carcinomatous on the other, are the territories which border on the debatabie land of sarcoma. The term may nevertheless very emently be retained as a collective expression for several definfl °f tVm?Urf’ each of which’ for itsolf> may be pretty clearly 'and w}ucl) aSren ln their history and mode of development ‘, as 011 certain particulars of minute structure. We shall thi? *>“? .?? *"»»• tax-™ as fibro-plftetic, re- W i h and myelold tumours, with somo forms of what were Wly called medullary sarcoma and others to be hereSer cbu.tmn'°n °f Sarcoma may bo defined as a growth ffirn ofTP°S?d ° 'tl98Ue resembling the immature or embiyonic orm of connective tissue. Such tissue is distinguished from (1„H or mature forms especially by the predominance of cell so much 80 that lt is a general, if not an absolute rule for fibre” bone.SARCOMATOUS TUMOURS. 166 cartilage, &c., to pass through a stage in which their structure is entirely cellular. Though tissue of this kind constitutes the early FiO. 32. Sarcomatous tumour. Structural elements of same. condition of many new growths as well as of normal tissues, it is only in the growths under consideration that the development stops short at this particular stage The definition of Yuxkowm substantially the same as this, hut deserves to be quoted literally. « garcoma, ” he says, “ is a formation whose structure belongs to the general group of the connective tissue senes, and is dis- tinguished from the clearly marked species of that group by the predominance of cellular elements.” It will thus be evident that the structure of sarcoma cannot precisely resemble any tissue of the mature body, and cannot, therefore, be ranged with any class of what we have called lnstioid tumours There is, however, another pathological product with which it has a considerable analogy-viz., granulations, which are produced for the repair of i^jurfel and the restoration of lost parts ; and since these are only the preliminary stage in the formation of a more perfect tissue, it is plain that their history and physiological position are also not dis- 2S; “Serene bbngU thecondit,on *4'^ in the one is permanent in the other Smce the^tissue of sarco is the common basis out of which the more sp ' further nectivo tissue may be evolved, it might seem 1 y • ' . step in development should sometimes be effected and^one.of these forms produced. This transformation does in fact not unfi equently167 SARCOMATOUS TUMOURS. occur, part of a tumour being strictly sarcomatous, while another part is composed of fibrous, bony, cartilaginous, or some other tissue. In this way mixed forms arise, which have been called fibro- sarcoma, osteo-sarcoma, chondro-sarcoma, &c.; the first part of the name being derived from the special kind of tissue with which the sarcomatous growth is associated. The vessels of sarcoma are often larger than ordinary capillaries, and have thin or imperfectly formed walls, so as to appear like mere channels excavated in the substance of the tumour. Origin of Sarcoma.—Sarcomatous tumours arise in the great majority of cases from some form of connective tissue, as the fasciae and septa of muscles, the periosteum, the subcutaneous tissue (also from the skin), and in the brain and spinal cord from the peculiar connective tissue (ne.uroglia) which forms the basis of these organs. They do also arise in the interior of bones and in glandular organs as the mammae, parotid, and also in lymphatic glands, but in the thoracic and abdominal viscera they are chiefly secondary formations. The general appearance, form, and size of sarcomatous tumours differ so much in the different varieties that hardly any general assertion can be made about these particulars. Structure of Sarcoma.-—The elements composing a sarcomatous tumour are cells, intercellular substance, fibres, and vessels. The cells are either roundish, like lymph cells, spindle-shaped, and stellate (fibro-plastic cells), or sometimes irregular in shape and very large (myeloid cells). In general they resemble connective tissue cells and not epithelial cells. They contain usually one or two round or oval nuclei, with brilliant nucleoli; but the nuclei in the large myeloid cells may be very numerous indeed. The cells are often extremely fragile, so as easily to set free nuclei which may then appear to be the principal constituent of the growth. Hence the name of fibro-nucleated tumour given to some kinds of sarcoma. The intercellular substance is seldom or never absent, and sometimes abundant, though it may be inconspicuous. It is best brought into view by hardening the tumour, and is sometimes a very important character in the distinction of sarcoma from cancer. Fibrous tissue is found in the form of septa, dividing the tumours into lobes or capsules enclosing them, and the inter- cellular substance may also be fibrillated, but there is very rarely a true fibrous stroma forming loculi filled with cells, as is the case in true cancer. The history of sarcomatous tumours is, in the majority of cases, that of innocent growths; but many examples occur of tumours which are in every respect as malignant as true cancer. This question is best considered with reference to the different forms of sarcoma.168 Fig. 33. VARIETIES OF SARCOMA. Spindle-celled Sarcoma, Recurrent Fibroid Tumour, Fibro-plasUc Tumour ; Fibro-nucleated Tumour.—This is the commonest and best known form of sarcoma. It consists mainly of cells which, being elongated and tapering to each end, have been thought to show a transitional form between cells and fibres. Sometimes one or both ends are prolonged into two points instead of one. Similar cells are found in granulations which are on the way to form fibrous tissue, and in scars formed without granulations. The cells and nuclei have in general the characters de- scribed above; they vaiy very much as to size in different specimens, though within the same tumour there will be considerable uniformity; oval and round cells are almost al- ways found associated with them. They are frequently ar- ranged side by side in bundles, (as in Pig. 33) whence the name of carcinoma fasciadatum ap- plied by Muller and Bokitansky to some tumours of this class. When such bundles, crossing one another at various angles, are cut in a fine section, the appear- ance of loculi or spaces may be produced, but there is not any true locular arrangement in sarcoma as here defined. These tumours arise most fre- quently from fibrous structures, as periosteum, fascia, muscular septa, &c., but are also found in glands, in the eye and other parts. They are often hardly distinguishable by the naked eye from fibrous tumours, but in other cases are translucent and soft, seldom opaque and “medullary” in appearance. Though mostly small they may attain the size of a man's head. Clinical character.—Tumours of this group may often be com- pletely and finally removed by operation, and produce no general affection of the constitution: but very often a new grow i a ves place at the seat of operation, and the tumour may in this way Section of spindle-celled sarcoma from the membranes of the spinal cord; partly teased out. The left hand of the figure shows the fasciculate arrangement of the spindle- cells. On the right hand they have been separated from one another, to show their tapering prolongations and large nuclei. (After Virchow, Die Kranlc. Geschw. vol. ii. p. 197.)169 VARIETIES OP SARCOMA. recur several times. It may also give rise to growths in distant parts ot the body, especially the lungs ; and the history of such cases may be in no respect different from that of cancerous tumours. We must therefore consider it as among the possi- bilities with regard to a spindle-celled sarcomatous tumour that it may produce all the phenomena of malignancy; though statistics would show that this event is by no means so likely to happen as iu the case of true cancer.* Bound-celled Sarcoma; Medullary Sarcoma ; Embry oplastic Tumour. these tumours have been in many cases described as medullary or encephaloid cancer, which form they often resemble both in their external appearance and in their history. Their characteristic Fig. 34. Structural forms are roundish or oval cells, enclosing one or more uclei, but presenting little diversity of form. The size is generally omparahie With that of lymph cells, but may be larger. The us are separated by more or less intercellular substance, though the amount of this may be trifling. In external appearance, they fre?h '"ft?" rCh a\t0 Sl?f a,?d*?rm- 0n section they appear when » sms* sa&int juej ,b;;r -VARIETIES OF SARCOMA. 170 ance may prevail even from the first. If examined some time after death a distinct “juice ” may be obtained by scraping, which is composed of cells set free by incipient decay. It would be rash to say that this juice is never seen in recently extirpated tumours. The colour depends principally upon the greater or less amount of vascular supply. These tumours show a greater tendency than spindle-celled sarcomata to softening and ulceration; cavities con- taining milky liquefied portions often occurring in them. Their most frequent situation is in the central organs of the nervous system, but they may occur in almost any part. Clinical character.—They are very likely to recur after removal, to affect neighbouring organs by contiguity, and more frequently than any other form of sarcoma to produce secondary growths in the internal organs. They may thus often deserve the name of malignant, but, nevertheless, the prognosis will on the average be more favourable for a tumour of this description than for one having the anatomical characters of cancer, to be hereafter described. Alveolar Sarcoma.—Tumours are sometimes met with having the clearly marked alveolar structure, which will be described below as characteristic of cancer ; but in which the cells have no pronounced epithelial character. Considering that this form of growth is some- times found continuous with true sarcoma; that it may arise from connective tissue, and that its cells have an indefinite character, some writers (as Billroth) regard them as sarcomata. Others again would call them “ connective-tissue cancers; ” and in the classifica- tion here adopted they must necessarily come under the head Cancer. Myeloid Sarcoma; Myeloid Tumour; Sarcoma with Gigantic Cells.— In all forms of sarcoma, as above defined, there are occasionally found very large, many-nucleated cells, of irregular shape, but these cells are found in greater abundance, so as to form a cha- racteristic structure in the class of tumours to be now described, which was first distinguished by Six J. Paget. They are termed myeloid, from the similarity of their structural elements to certain corpuscles found in the marrow (gueAoV) of young bones. The tumour may either be enclosed in a capsule of expanded bone, or only by a periosteal investment. They are, for the most part, rather firm, but brittle, compact, of spherical or ovoid shape when invested by bone, more irregular and lobulated when growing upon bone. The cut surface is smooth, uniform, shining, succulent, with a yellowish fluid; commonly variegated by blotches of dark or livid crimson, or various shades of red upon a greenish or grayish white ground. The structural elements characteristic of myeloid tumours are large, round, oval, or irregular cells, and cell- like masses, of clear, or dimly granular substance, -jdo 1000 m(~ diam.; and containing from two to ten or more oval, clear, and nucleolated nuclei. With these occur caudate and fibre cells, and free nuclei, and the whole are embedded in a dimly granular sub- stance, mingled with more or less of molecular fatty matter. TheVARIETIES OE SARCOMA. 171 history of these tumours, as far as is known, is nearly as follows : —They usually occur singly, are most frequent in youth, and very rare after middle age; they are of slow growth, cause no pain, and have no tendency to ulcerate. These tumours occur usually in connection with bone, and many of the growths on the jaws called epulis are of this kind, but in- stances are not wanting of their occurring primarily in other parts, as the eye, the'breast, and the peritoneum.* Such cases are,' however, pathological rarities. Myeloid tumours seldom grow again if completely extirpated, but local recurrence is always possible, and in a few cases the production of secondary growths m the internal organs has been satisfactorily demonstrated. It is impossible to refuse to such cases the epithet of malignant, but m general a .favourable prognosis may be formed as to a clearly marked myeloid tumour. Melanotic Sarcoma.—Some specimens of sarcoma, both of the round-celled and the spindle-celled varieties, are remarkable for the amount of pigment contained in them. They are among the tumours which have been described as melanotic cancer. Such forms originate most frequently from those parts of the body where pigment naturally occurs, as the skin, the choroid coat of the eye, ~.c\ Many of them, especially those from the eyeball, are in the highest degree malignant. Cysto-sarcoma. Cyst formation, combined with sarcoma, consti- tutes cyslo-sarcoma. Enlargement of the natural cavities and channels such as glandular acini or ducts, seems to be the process y which the cysts originate. Cysto-sarcomata mostly occur in the female breast and in the ovary, and the special forms belonging to thepe organs will be discussed in the special part of this work! It may be laid down as a general rule that such tumours are sar- comata in which a cystic growth occurs, and that this growth does not alter their general characters or probable history, which will to bf k ° til0 particular sPe°ies °f sarcoma to which they may happen Psammoma.—-We may also here allude to a class of tumours peculiar to the brain and its appendages, which are usually classed under the head of sarcoma. Their characteristic feature is the occurrence of calcareous matter, or “ brain sand,” in the centre of small concentric lobules. They are not uncommon, and seem to produce, under ordinary circumstances, no symptoms whatever • it is only when they attain an excessive size that they have anv pathological importance. Their consideration comes more nronerlv under the head of the special pathology of the brain. * y/toma.-This seems the proper place for giving some account l*da98 of tumours peculiar to the brain and similar nervous structures, which aro formed on tho typo of, and in fact develoned from, the interstitial substance which forms the connectivJ-tissuo • Virchow. “ Dio Krunkhaften GeachwUlstc,” u. 338.172 CANCERS OR CARCINOMATOUS TUMOURS. matrix of tlie nervous centres, and to which Virchow has given the name of neuroglia. A hyperplastic growth of this substance, sufficiently distinct to form a ■F1®- 35• tumour, constitutes a glioma. This form of tumour is un- doubtedly very nearly allied to sarcoma, and indeed it is doubtful whether any clear line can be drawn between them. Gliomata generally occur as solitary tumours, more rarely multiple; they vary much in size, and may be as large as a fist. They are sometimes extremely vas- cular, but sometimes again almost non-vascular, pale, and of a hardness approaching that of cartilage. They con- sist chiefly of round or some- what polygonal cells, sepa- rated by a very distinct, but homogeneous matrix. They are very liable to fatty or case- ous degeneration, so that they may sometimes approach the consistency of yellow tubercle. On the other hand, the degeneration sometimes results in the produc- tion of a cystic cavity. These tumours occur in the immense majority of cases in the brain, but similar structures have,been seen on the nerves of special sense, and in connection with the retina. They rarely spread by infection to neighbouring struc- tures, and there are very few instances on record of the occurrence of secondary tumours in distant parts. They may therefore be spoken of as generally, though not universally, innocent. Section of a glioma from the brain, showing the cells or corpuscles imbedded in a clear matrix, v, a vessel, a, portion of the tumour where degeneration and caseation have begun. (From an original preparation.) CANCERS OR CARCINOMATOUS TUMOURS. There are three varieties of cancer which agree to a certain extent in their structure, and about which, therefore, certain gene- ral propositions may be made. In each of these forms (encephaloid, scirrhus, colloid) there is a fibrous framework or stroma arranged in such a way as to form alveoli, or spaces communicating freely with one another, in which are contained cells, closely set together and not separated individually by any further partitions, or any intercellular substance. This is the only anatomical charac- ter common to all the tumours which we call cancer, and it serves, in the immense majority of cases, to distinguish them from the sarcomatous tumours which most nearly resemble them. TheCANCERS OR CARCINOMATOUS TUMOURS. 173 m,UC^ ^ j? tIle majority of cases they are angular chiacter.ned~tllat 18’ ^ haV® What is called au “ epithelial ” Encephaloid or Medullary (lancer.—This is commonly called soft cancer m distmctmn from the form to he next descSdTsciXs FiO. 86. “ Stt TSt s£5 STefi., ^,ffiT4SteSiE*d«r «... «l™, Med„UajrSy4e“ SfST&J174 CANCERS OR CARCINOMATOUS TUMOUR8. infiltration, or as a distinct tumour; even in the latter case it is usually very closely connected with adjoining parts, and surrounded by no capsule, or a very ill-defined one. The_ ex- ternal form, the soft consistence, and sometimes the colour have been thought to resemble the brain, whence the name ence- phaloid. On section a thick creamy “juice” is generally seen, either exuding spontaneously or on pressure, or else obtained by scraping the surface with a knife. This juice contains, or is com- posed of, cells set free from the alveolar spaces; and if they be all removed from a thin slice of the cancer, the amount of fibrous tissue left is sometimes very small. The stroma is, however, never wanting, and has the alveolar arrangement already described. The substance is opaque, and in colour sometimes pure white, bat more often modified into various shades of red by the presence of blood vessels. The cells of medullary cancer are very difficult to cha- racterize. They vary much, both in size and shape, and when large they are mostly flat and angular, or polygonal, so as to have an “epithelial” character, which, if well marked, is very distinc- tive. Such cells contain one or several nuclei, sometimes them- selves larger. In some soft and rapidly-growing cancers, the cells are very small, and have in this case a much less pronounced epi- thelial character, but still show great diversity of form. There are also often free nuclei to be seen, which are possibly derived from fragile and easily-destroyed cells. In tumours so subject to softening and fatty degeneration as medullary cancers, all cell forms are liable to be destroyed, and a comparatively young portion of the tumour should therefore be sought for. History of Medullary Cancer.—This form of cancer presents, as has been said, in a very marked degree the characters above de- scribed as malignant. It is, however, worthy of note that its growth is, as compared with other forms, extremely rapid, and that it is by no means specially a disease of advanced life. It is most frequent between the ages of forty and fifty, but may occur m infancy, and cases of cancer in youth are almost invariably ol tins VaVarieties of Medullary Cancer.—Various names have been given to varieties of medullary cancer which differ m their consistency and general appearance. More important characters are deno.ei by the following namesThe term Hcematoid implies that the irrowth is unusually vascular, is the seat of excessive dove opmen of vessels, and perhaps of blood, and is prone to pour out those alarming hemorrhages which often cause fatal exhaustion. < the htematoid character is strongly marked, the name ot l ungus Ifromatodes is applicable. Melanoid cancer is m the great majority of cases encephaloid structure, with the addition of black jugment. The secondary growths which follow a primary me anoi canc may be unpmmented. . .. . . _ Villous Cancer is a growth of medullary cancer projcc mg m * cavity, such as the bladder, where it takes a villous 01 po yp17.3 CANCERS OR CARCINOMATOUS TUMOURS. Fig. 37. form ; but epithelial and other growths have been confounded under the same name. Scirrhus, or hard cancer, commonly appears as a knotty or un- even, pretty distinctly limited, very hard (stony) tumour. Its Surface or section is of a bluish or greyish white, and often presents a peculiar glossiness ; scarce any trace of vessels is ordinarily visible, except in spots, which are inflamed and softening. The adjacent tissues, especially the skin, when the growth is subcuta- neous, are more or less involved, and drawn inwards towards the tumour. In structure it consists essentially of a basis substance, more or less advanced in fibre-de- velopment, in which very various forms of cell growth are imbedded. Of the latter, it is utterly im- possible to give any general ac- count ; they may be bare nuclei, cells of most various aspect, vesicles ; granular globules; with these oil and diffused granulous matter are mingled in varying quantity. Glomeruli are often seen in fattily degenerating, or in inflamed parts; and parent cells, containing a secondary genera- tion, are occasionally present. The disposition of the fibres is very various, sometimes parallel to each other, sometimes radiating, often crossing at right or acute angles. An alveolar arrangement may, however, be regarded as the prevailing one in almost all specimens of scirrhus at the height of its development, and the alveoli are filled, as in encephaloid, with cells of very various shape and size. The chief difference observed on comparing these two forms of cancer is the greater predominance of cells in ence- phaloid, and of the stroma in scirrhus. In atrophied, or wasted specimens of scirrhus, the alveolar arrangement is often lost, and the cells are quite unrecognizable, ocirrhus yields some gelatine on boiling; less albumen and oil, but more saline matter, are contained in it than in encephaloid’ the growth of scirrhus is slow, the more so in proportion as its hbrous element predominates; it may then exist long without inducing the constitutional cachexia, or reproducing itself in any distant part, or oven affecting the lymphatic glands. The most common seats of scirrhus are the female breast, tho pyloric ex- tremity of the stomach, the rectum; it is usually the original formation in these, or in other parts; but gives rise to secondary Scirrhous tumour of cerebrum. (a) Cells. (b) Section of firm stroma.CANCERS OR CARCINOMATOUS TUMOURS. 17(5 Fine section of scirrhus of the pleura, from which the cells have been washed out to show the alveolar stroma, composed of bands varying m thickness. To the left of the figure may be seen the development of alveoli. (From an original preparation.; Colloid cancer, the next variety we notice, is also called alveolar ; other cancers present more or less of an alveolar arrangement, but it never constitutes so prominent a feature of their structure. The walls of the alveoli consist of a fibroid tissue, sometimes extremely delicate and translucent,, sometimes, and especially in the deeper layers, strong and firm. The contained loculi vary in size from that of a grain of sand to that of a pea; they are round or oval; occasionally adjacent ones communicate together by solution of the interposed wall. The jelly-like substance in their cavities ib greenish-yellow, semi-transparent, and clammy; “it yields no gelatine on boiling, but seems to consist of a peculiar substance, identical with that naturally occurring in the cavities of the thy- roid, and in some cysts. Colls, nucleated and non-nucleated, cau- date and fusiform, nuclei, and elementary granules, occur in this growths, either similar to the original or encephaloid. Often it extends itself by infiltration among adjacent tissues. It rarely attains a large size, and is not often seen so large as an orange. Fig. 38.177 COLLOID CANCEB. substance and, under circumstances probably connected with softening changes, granule-cells, and fat molecules. Endogenous Fig. 39. Colloid cancer of a lymphatic gland. production of the cells within parent cells is sometimes observed Lolimd may present itself as a distinct solitary tumour,” or may infiltrate the tissues which it infects, when it occurs on serous membranes ; there are often small scattered nodules of the growth in the vicinity of the larger. 6 Several varieties of colloid have been described by some patholo- gists but there does not appear to be more than one type of struc- ture to which the term colloid cancer is applicable. This is a structure agreeing in its general type with medullary cancer, but !li ig^hed tbe "elatlri°us character and hypertrophy of its cells. These cells have, m fact, undergone a “ colloid ” metamor- pnosis, and the whole growth resembles a medullary cancer which as undergone this change ; though it is by no means the case that acb specimen of colloid cancer has passed through the stage of medullary. The other growths formerly described as colloid are ■ tiler myxomata, or else some other form of tumour which has ,J;*;r80n° a hyaline or colloid metamorphosis. -the favourito habitat of colloid are the stomach and omentum • ln the ovaries’ the bones- tho kidneys, the uterus’ “‘1° ■8P1?en’ ™re rfely ln the lungs,* and, 'as a secondary "1 ln lymphatic glands. Its growth is often rapid, and it attain a verj-large me, exceeding that of a cocoa-nut. Tho from tha°f th° a Ve°i1 aJe, Retimes of pearly aspect, probably t ,the. Prcscnce of cholesteatomatous matter. Colloid may exut combined with scirrhus, and also with encephaloid • in the • Bristowe. “Tranr. Path. Soc./’ x:x. 228 (180S)178 EPITHELIAL CANCER ; CANCROID ; EPITHELIOMA. latter case, the superficial loculi become occupied by soft encepha- loid matter. Clinical character.—The malignant character is less marked in colloid than in the other kinds of cancer ; it does not induce such marked cachexia, does not so often reproduce itself in distant parts, or contaminate the lymphatic glands, and is less prone to softening and decay, or to inflammation and saniation. As, however, it has a great tendency to infiltrate neighbouring parts, and, in well- marked cases, affects the neighbouring lymph glands, and even reproduces itself in distant organs, there can be no doubt of the propriety of the term colloid cancer. The peculiar degeneration which the cells undergo is perhaps the reason why they have a slighter tendency to reproduce themselves in distant parts. EPITHELIAL CANCER ; CANCROID ; EPITHELIOMA. Epithelial cancer seems only recently to have been admitted among the varieties of this disease; it is not mentioned by Dr. Walshe in his elaborate work, and yet its cancerous nature in many cases is unequivocal and strongly marked. It occurs as a primary growth almost solely on tegumentary or mucous surfaces, or in secreting glands; the lips and cheeks are among the parts most commonly affected by it. fiokitansky and horsier mention having observed it in the liver, and Sir J. Paget has recorded two cases of its occurring primarily in lymphatic glands. On mucous surfaces it appears as a cauliflower-like growth, of a more or less red tint from vascular injection, of various degrees of consistency, and easily separated into parts by pressure. On the general tegument, its appearance is most often that of a low, tolerably well-defined tumour, of hard feel, having an irregular nodulated surface, covered with minute watery papillae: when ulceration and soften- ing take place, the surface becomes injected, a watery and serous discharge is poured out, and gradual destruction of the part pro- ceeds In structure, these tumours essentially consist of an alter- ation'of the integument, the corium and subcutaneous areolar tissue being converted into morbid growth, the papillae greatly hypertrophied, as well as the epithelium resting upon them. Tho epithelium is also found dipping down into the deep parts and in- filtrating the co-subcutaneous connective tissue as well as the deeper layers of the skin. In the last specimen we examined, which was from the lower lip, a vertical section displayed an external whitish layer, about one-third inch thick, marked by vertical striae, and resting upon some areolar tissue, tat, and muscle. Its surface showed but slight traces of subdivision. Its extent in depth appeared to be most accurately limited by tho lower margin of the whitish striated layer, but upon ex- amination the areolar tissue immediately subjacent, and ior some depth, was found thoroughly infiltrated with nuclei and granu arEPITHELIAL CANCER; CANCROID; EPITHELIOMA. 179 matter. Sections of the altered integument showed papillary ele- yations, completely overwhelmed and blended together by an Eia. 40. epithel;T’ ^ in 80me parts showed * 3ncy ,to fatty change, and here and there the capsulatin^ • n e c o tni e n 11 o n e d below. If glands exist in the part affected their epithelium may also accumulate within their canals, and Pig. 41. Two birds* nest bodies from epithelioma, n. Amomlioin nr (1oo-onn«ni ■* lurfc'e cpitheliul cuiis arran^d —s,- (Roiris thus add to the size of the tumour. One peculiar;Hr n „ m°nly observable in the arrangement of the cells of «mr. which doo. not seem to “occur in other ^ l w?L°PS'1**1 th.t hero and there the scaly particle .re180 EPITHELIAL CANCER; CANCROID; EPITHELIOMA. around a central circular space, which contains amorphous colloid matter or degenerated cells. These peculiar structures are called “epithelial pearls,” “globes epidermigues,” or “ bird's nest bodies.” (Pigs. 40 and 41. ) Clinical character.—The malignant character of epithelial cancer is manifested in its extending from the superficial textures first involved to the deeper seated, even to the bones; the laryngeal cartilages have often been involved by it. It seems, however, to have less tendency to contaminate the lymphatic glands, and the system generally, than other varieties of cancer, though Sir J. Paget observed some extension to the lymphatic glands in about half his cases. Instances of the occurrence of new growths in distant parts of the body are not unknown, though rare. _ In some of these cases there has been supposed to be a mechanical transference of germs.* , Cholesteatoma—A. peculiar form of epithelial tumour known by this name, appears to be nearly allied to epithelioma. It contains fiat epidermic cells, intermixed with cholesterine crystals. It is extremely rare, and specimens have been probably often confounded with fatty cysts. , , ., , Tubular or Cylindrical Epithelioma.—The tumours above described are formed of epithelial cells resembling the flat, squamous, or pavement epithelium ; but there are other cancers in which the epithelium was of the cylindrical variety. Tumours of this kmd always grow on mucous surfaces, which are covered with cylmdncal epithelium, such as the interior of the stomach and intestines. They are soft, present on section a milky juice, and often have a con- siderable resemblance to medullary cancer; and like malignant orowths they infect the neighbouring lymph glands, and occasion- allv give rise to secondary growths m the liver and lungs. Ihe anatomical characters of this form of cancer are a well-marked stroma and cylindrical epithelial cells arranged in its alveoli, perpen- dicular to the walls, as in an epithelial surface. Some examples of villous cancer, or “ cauliflower excrescence, have this struc- ture t This form of epithelioma is related to the glandular tumours, as the common form is to innocent epidermic growths. Epithelial cancer, in general, is a disease of middle or advanced life being almost unknown under the age of thirty. It is more common in men than women, and often appears to to some local irritation, as that of soot m the case of chin J sweens who are especially liable to epithelioma of the scrotum. Cystic Cancer, or Cysto.- Carcinoma.—A cystic growth sometimes « Trane Rath Soo xx. 28. The malignancy of epithelioma is tn-eatty influenced by physical conditions, being more vascularity, and amount of movement in the part. Thus rtJsto h.,a the glands and other parts when occurring on London, when growing from the skin of the cheeks or limbs. See Arnoit on cancer. r.onoo , l8+^Hutchinson : “ Trans. Path. Soc." viii. p. 264. Comil and Ranvier: “Manuel 1*Histologic Pathologiquo Gentfrale,” p. 280.181 GENERAL REMARKS ON CANCER. OCCUJ-S in combination with one or other of the species of cancer chiefly with encephaloid: the cysts may be simple or compound’ liiese cysto-carcmomatous growths arise in various ways • either a production of cancer tissue takes in the wall or the cavity of a pre-existing cyst; or cysts are formed by dilatation of natural cavities (as glandular acini) contained in the cancerous growth • or else some softening or colloid transformation of cells causes’the production of cysts from the cancerous elements themselves. y illous Cancer.—Rokitansky describes a variety of cancer, which he calls villous, from its consisting of a kind of delicate fibrous stalk branching at its end into villous processes, with somewhat bulbous terminations. They grow on the internal surface of natural cavities, and are extremely vascular. Hemorrhage often takes place spontaneously from them, and is easily excited by the havingfhleS1°n' ls Probable that many innocent tumours, having the same form have been confounded under this name1 but many cases are undoubtedly cancerous. They more commonly cvlinrfnValthe 0P}thellal *7?° oi caiicer, and are furnished with W 1a 1 epi,thelm^’.bl!t m other cases true encephaloid struc- t0 f?rm th?r bil8ls' They 0CCU1' ln the bladder, in the Qgma’ au,d on tb® mucous surface of the stomach and Scii“encesfo0me ^ SMhs have been described as caulifiower general remarks on cancer. tonmrffmity be’ pr°bably> otter varities of cancerous tumours, or ness but Trf P°SSeSsin® more or less of cancerous- ness but we have sketched the outline of the principal forms that i oally met with, and we feel convinced that it is far more St the student and the practitioner to contemplate Jo great characteristics of malignant disease, than to load U memory with details of the incidental and trivial. Partly on this account we have not attempted to give any very minute ovuinm 'f1119 ° r tb° structui'° of cancerous tumours, for our own exS « mUS haVS m°,St tboiml«hly convinced us of the non- existcnce of any special structural character, absolutely and in all 2Sct^C-TO °f, mali^ growths. If ’a tumour present the glyea above as distinctive of malignancy, it tells its mineth10’ and anatomical investigation is not necessarv to deter- M not if rU fV BuVt may buppen tbat :t is 111 so early a sta-e Boont j later±0T Cbaracter8' and yet be certain to develop them value for 1 1 1 tbeso “sos anatomical structure is of great %aluo for prognosis, though even then the utmost that can be oped for is to refer tho tumour to its right place in classification iith resL8r a key to the information which has been collected ““ of oaoiouS wXSolX S£2&182 GENERAL REMARKS ON CANCER. physical characters, and not by their living actions, amounts to this:—If a tumour, on being incised and compressed, yield a whitish, milky juice (the so-called “sue cancereux”), it is probably cancerous; we have, however, failed to obtain this sign from actual encephaloid. If the cell-growth of a tumour is what may be called exceedingly multiform, i.e., one particle unlike another, the field of view being filled with utter varieties of shape and construction, there arises a strong presumption that the structure is cancerous. If a tumour consist of an abundant cell-growth lying in the alveoli of a fibrous stroma of slight consistence, it so far bears a close resemblance to encephaloid. There are, how- ever, scirrhous tumours (of the breast) in which the cellular elements occupy a very subordinate position, but the alveolar structure will even here be an important criterion. An epithelial character of the cells, that is, their being fiat, angular from mutual pressure, and closely packed without intercellular sub- stance, has been thought by recent observers, especially in Ger- many, to be an important distinction of cancer as contrasted with sarcoma, and the absence of intercellular substance is also a character of some weight. The above characters will serve in the great majority of cases to distinguish anatomically the group of cancers, a group, as we have said, by no means co-extensive with malignant tumours, although the most certainly malignant. The characters of sarcomatous tumours, which stand next in order of malignancy, we need not recapitulate, except to insist upon the importance of the presence of an intercellular substance, regarded as a positive character, though it may be difficult to see except in a hardened specimen. If a tumour can be satisfactorily referred to this group, we know that it is extremely likely to recur, and may very probably be truly malignant. If finally, we find the tumour to possess the characters of some simple tissue of the body, we know that recurrence, or any form of malignancy, is as excep- tional as the opposite qualities are exceptional in the case of the typical cancers. Scale of Malignancy—In concluding these general remarks, we may state, we think, the following position with some confidence, viz. that, starting from encephaloid as the representative of cancer par'excellence, we find the malignant character gradually declin- ing as we pass through a series of formations, such as we have above described,’ until we come to those of whose innocent nature there is no question. The exact limit, we believe, at which malig- nancy is lost cannot be distinguished by any clear line, any more than in natural history we can separate absolutely animals Irom plants, or in chemistry we can make a positive distinction between the metals and the non-mctallic elements. Such a scale we have attempted to represent in the following table :ORIGIN AND DEVELOPMENT OF CANCER. 183 SCALE OF MALIGNANCY. Malignant. Encephaloid. Scirrhus. Round-celled or Medullary Sarcoma. Colloid Cancer. Epithelioma. Osteoid. Spindle-celled Sarcoma (Recurrent Fibroid). Glioma. Myeloid Sarcoma. Myxoma. Enchondroma. Fibroma. Simple Histioid Tumours generally. Innocent. Vessels and Nerves of Cancer.—The vessels of cancer for the most part, we believe, are of the ordinary kind, derived from those of the natural tissues by the process of extension or growth: they have generally very thin and simple walls, so as to resemble very large capillaries rather than arteries and veins. Lymphatic vessels have been traced in cancerous tumours, accompanying the blood vessels. They doubtless communicate with the lymphatic vessels of the part affected. No new formation of nerves appears to take place, but the nervous filaments traversing or distributed to the part which is the seat of the cancerous growth, are often involved in the mass, and becoming injuriously pressed on, or otherwise injured, occasion the most frightful pains. There is scarce any- thing accurately determined respecting the chemical composition of cancer. Encephaloid is said to consist chiefly, if not entirely, of albuminous matter; scirrhus to contain gelatine also, while colloid jelly seems to be a principle quite sui generis. Possibly there may be some special cancerous virus, as there is a variolous , Rod syphilitic, but as yet chemistry knows nothing of it, and we only infer its existence from the effects it produces. Origin of Cancerous Growths.—The origin of cancer is a subject of the deepest interest, but the first and most important step of the process is entirely concealed from us. Mr. Simon views a cancer as “ substantially a new and excretory organ,” a growth which arises for the purpose of eliminating from the system aD unhealthy matter which is generated within it. Such a function, however, is surely not fulfilled by all instances, even of encephaloid, and still less of the other species. It rather seems that we should recognize in cancer a grave alteration of the normal formative powers; those real, but occult influences which determine that—here bone] and there muscle, and thero nerve shall bo produced. Wo knowORIGIN AND DEVELOPMENT OF CANCER. 184 something of the disturbances of nutrition occasioned by unhealthy conditions of the blood quoad its chemical composition; we know something of the origin of rheumatism, and gout, and syphilis, and of the effects they produce; but they are very different from the phenomena of new formations. Surely the arising of a fibrous tumour, an enchondroma, or a cancer, implies a very different kind of action to that which is observed in any blood disease. We cer- tainly believe the blood to be affected, probably in its chemical composition, as well as. and most importantly, in its vital endow- ments, but we do not think it is the only seat of primary alteration. Were it so, how would it be possible to account for the constant preference manifested by scirrhus, and by other tumours, for par- ticular sites ? We conceive then, that in the case of cancer, the blood and the general system, but especially some particular part, having suffered some unknown deterioration or perversion of their vital power, a formative process is set up in the specially weakened part (perhaps in consequence of a blow or other injury), causing the development of cell and fibre structure, which soon constitutes a new growth, endowed with powers of assimilation and vegetation to an almost indefinite extent. The tendency to cancerous disease, that is to say, the deterioration of the blood, and of the assimila- tive powers, may exist for a long time before it expresses itself in the tangible reality of a tumour; but when this is formed it becomes an engine for multiplication of similar tumours, and intensification of the cancerous diathesis. It is not possible to trace the process further back than to the tissues themselves. In the vast majority of instances the growth manifestly originates within or in the interstices of textural elements; in some few it has been found in the coats of the vessels, but in none has it been certainly proved to have originated in the blood. Cancerous growths have, indeed, been seen within the veins, but this has been the result of perforation of their walls by formations external to them. Development proceeds in rudimentary cancerous tissue just as it would do in healthy ; nuclei and fibres seem to arise in the same way; and the view taken of the pathological process must depend upon the light in which fhe physiological processes of growth and development are regarded. Theories of the development of New Growths.—According to one theory the formation of new elements, whether in physiological or pathological circumstances, has been regarded as a production ae novo, or as the transformation of an amorphous substance into formed elements, much as a saline solution transforms itselt into crystals. This may be called the blastema theory, 01 the theory of free cell development. On this theory the formation of a new growth begins with the exudation (from the vesse s) of a certain quantity of blastema, which proceeds to develop cell and fibre-structure. In the case of morbid growths, sue as cancer, the special character or morbidity of the growth depeni s upon the blood and general system, but especially on the paiticuiarORIGIN AND DEVELOPMENT OF CANCER. 185 Fig. 42. part in which the growth takes place having suffered some un- known deterioration or perversion of its vital power. In opposition to this view has been elaborated the theory of cellular develop- ment, founded in great measure upon the facts of embryology, and purporting to unite in one view the formative processes both of vascular and non-vascular parts. According to this view every cell is the progeny of some other cell—omnis cellula e cellula—and just as in the formation of an embryonic limb the generations of tissue-elements may be traced back to one original ancestor, which first began to multiply by division or endogenous cell development (Goodsir, Eemak), so in the case of pathological new growths, their component cells may be traced back to pre-existing tissue- cells, of which they are the lineal descendants. What, in the case of new growths, determines the charac- ter which they assume is as little explained on this as on the other view; we do not even know whether it is a general cause affect- ing the whole body, or a special one affecting the part. All that is asserted is that the cause affects the original elements of the part as a special stimulus, causing them to take on some special kind of development. The evidences of this development are de- rived, firstly, in a general way from the fact that a new growth always takes its rise from some special tissue in an organ, e.g., from fibrous structures, or from epithelium, and that this mother-tissue, or matrix, has gieat influence on its type of organization; secondly, from the signs of multiplication, either by division, or more rarely by en- dogenous proliferation, which may be traced in the elements of the surrounding parts. 4-1} many cases transitional forms are met with which connect the original tissue- cells with the elements of the new growth. Ihiis, if we examine the peripheral portions of a cancer of the oreast;, we find the adipose tissue more or less infiltrated, as It 1 i 1 cance.rous growth. This infiltration consists in the gTaunal transformation of the adipose connective tissue into can- cotousiIs8 1°Cti -by th,Q I,roductiou from the connective tissue corpuscles of nuclei and elements resembling the cells nf ti,„ CTowtR th® 1interstices disappearing by the pressure of the cell growtn. Here several stages may be seen, such as m a con nective tissue corpuscle, containing several nuclei - oontoining in place of the ISHaWSefmu.h SefitfTh, eon“,nme to reetmble precisely * aiveoius of the cancer itself. In this case it is conclurWl th,. An piocess consists essentially in the conversion of the connective Diagram of the prolifer- ation of connective tissue. a. Simple connective tissue corpuscle, b. The same en- larged or hypertrophied, c. Division of the nucleus, d. Division of the cell. e. Further division of the cell and formation of round granulation cells. /. Con- tinued proliferation. (After Virchow.)ORIGIN AND DEVELOPMENT OF CANCER. 186 tissue corpuscles into cancerous alveoli, an explanation which if the observations on ■which it is founded are correct, accoun or the formation of by far the greater part of the tumour, and by analogy must be extended to its original formation. Fig. 43. •sraa&tatN tssrs ttars^asss granulation material. ’ cases we find the surrounding elements converted not into special cells like those of the cancer, but into groups of nuclei or sma corpuscles; and these becoming continuous, ultimately form a ms of what has been called “indifferent granulation material, which, it is thought, becomes transformed into the cancerous tissue. It is not certain that this is always the case, or that the production of cancer always passes through this stage. Both this proces Crenresented in Fig- 43) and the more direct tronfomiation mto cancerous elements8may be seen simultaneously. 1 hat now spoken of has noting specific about it, but is the same for all kinds of new Tim nlan of growth in different organs may be various, fTSe essential poStSL that the new elements are formed by division and multiplication of those already existing. Another tly in wh'chnew elements are produced is by the migration of leucocytes from the vessels. imagined that one connective tissue, have produced the phenomenon hei-e187 ORIGIN AND DEVELOPMENT OF CANCER. to science made by Virchow consists in his having demonstrated the existence of this tissue, and the possibility of new growths arising from it in organs such as muscle, nerve centres, &c., formerly supposed to be destitute of it. But more recent inquiries have shown that other tissues also, more especially epithelium (both that of mucous and glandular structures, and the serous epithelium, or “ endothelium ” which lines the serous cavities and lymphatic channels) and the nuclei of blood-vessels, may serve the same purpose; and it is not certain that even highly-specialized elements, such as liver cells, may not sometimes give rise to new elements. In the case of cancer especially the question has given rise to much discussion. Virchow first laid down the general principle that cancers, excluding epithelioma, were always deve- loped from the connective tissue, or some one of the less specialized tissues; but of late years it has been shown by Waldeyer * and others that some forms of cancer arise from glandular or epithelial structures. It is, however, admitted that in these cases the growth soon spreads to the connective tissue, and hence the infection of the latter may still be the real distinc- tion of cancer from those growths which are simple glandular hypertrophies, and cancer would then be, as defined by Billroth,! a primarily epithelial growth, with marked and intense infection of the connective tissue. This local infection is in fact tho clearest indication of truly cancerous growth. Since this question is certainly not at present completely set at rest, we have not thought it necessary, for the purposes of this manual, to dis- tmguish the epithelial and connective tissue cancers further than to separate those which are at first, and remain epithelial, under the name of epithelioma. Relation to Lymphatics.—A. second very important point in the evelopment ot cancer is its relation to the lymphatic system. has been shown by MM. Cornil and Kanvier, and also by r. iioster for epithelioma, that the alveoli of cancer commu- nicate freely with the lymphatic vessels of neighbouring parts, ■yns )act explains in a very striking manner the direct and almost constant infection of the lymphatic glands, which is so character,stic of cancer. It is, moreover, by no means inconsistent with the close connection of cancer and connective tissue, if we accept the views of His and others, that the connective tissue forms a system of plasmatic channels, in close connection with the lymphatic system. In the case of glandular cancers and epithe- lioma the long tubular prolongations filled with cells, which are 2£dJi ex w1 lnt0 t,he ™?hbo“i?g tissue, seem also to be casts of lymphatic vessels. Although these facts make it clear how material passes from the tumour to the nearest lymphatic glands, it is by no means certain what that material is * WaMeyer. t Billroth. “ Virehow’s “Arehiv,” xli. p. 470. Chirurgische Pathologie und Therapie.” Third edition, 1868, p. C37.188 GROWTH AND DEGENERATIONS OF CANCER. Whether the actual transport of cells is necessary, or whether some smaller germs or even some fluid substance may convey the stimulus which leads to production of cancerous structure, is at present quite undetermined. GROWTH AND DEGENERATIONS OF CANCER. The growth of a cancerous tumour will he more rapid, in proportion as its structure is mainly composed of cells, and contains but little fibre, and is also so situated that it has room to expand freely. Encephaloid, in which cell-structure always predominates, is notoriously of most rapid growth, but even its progress is comparatively slow while it is confined within unyielding walls, as in the globe of the eye. Laennec supposen that all cancers were originally hard, and that in the process of growth they gradually became softer. This is not so ; cancers may be quite soft at their commencement; but still they do generally appear to diminish in consistence as they advance in age. .Tumouis, however, of the same date may differ very greatly in consistence. Inflammation may affect cancerous tumours; it is commonly excited by their exposure to the air after they have made their way through the covering parts. It powerfully accelerates soften- ing and decay. Suppuration may take place as the result of inflammation, but the pus is an ill-formed sanious product, mino-led with detritus. Cancerous formations sometimes mortify spontaneously, sometimes in consequence of inflammation ; m the first case a cure has been known to take place, and. to attain this artificially is the object of various escharotic applications. It is evident that it is only in instances of cancer whose powers of vegetation are feeble and sluggish that such a proceeding can be successful. There are other changes which cancer occasionally undergoes, and which, it has sometimes been thought, may result in a cure. One is fatty degeneration. It is this change, in an early stage, which constitutes Carcinoma retiadare; it occurs wit.x formation of granule cells, or independently of them. J attain such a degree as to cause liquefaction and the formation of a cavity. The other change is a shrinking and contraction, a kind of drying up of the cancerous growth, sometimes attended witd deposition of calcareous matter, analogous to the cretification o tubercle. These atrophic processes produce the aPPe^mce o “ umbilication ” in mammary and hepatic cancers, and the well known retraction of the nipple in the former. Another d^nera- tion is the so-called “ colloid metamorphosis, m wh ch the structure becomes homogeneous, translucent, and This, which affects specially encephaloid, constitutes a transition t colloid cancer, properly so called. . . •>• , Primary and Secondary Growths.—The term primary PP to cancerous growths, originating for the fii»t tune inGROWTH AND DEGENERATIONS OF CANCER. 189 system; secondary, to those that are in some way derived by dissemination from the primary. We have already alluded to one mode by which secondary cancers are established, viz.: that through the medium of lymphatics; and we have shown how it is explained by the close connection of both epithelial and connective tissue cancers with the lymphatic system. It is the commonest mode of transmission, especially in the case of true cancers, while in the class of sarcomata, even when they are highly malignant, it is less frequent, though not unknown. In the same way the blood-vessels may be the channel of infection, and the situation of the secondary growths often clearly shows this to be the case. The nidus is most often the next capillary plexus at which the blood arrives; thus, cancer of the breast occasions cancerous tumours in the lungs in almost all cases in which it also affects the liver, but it often produces cancer in the lungs without any occurring in the liver; cancer originating in the stomach occasions similar disease in the liver to which3 its veins proceed, before it produces any in the lungs. This method of transmission is the rule in malignant sarcomatous tumours where the lymph-glands are sometimes remarkably unaffected. Distribution by the Vessels.—In most of these cases of infection by means of blood or lymph-vessels, there is no possibility of tracing by what particles, whether solid or liquid, the secondary growths are set up; but there are instances where it is clear that the primary morbid growth has made its way into the vessels, and either crept along them till it has reached the next capillary plexus, or else allowed of the detachment of solid masses which have been carried along with the circulation till arrested in the capillaries, after the manner of an embolus, ihese facts have been observed both in cancerous and sar- comatous tumours, and in a few cases of enchondroma A similar mechanical transport may, however, take place in other ways than by the circulating fluids. Thus the distribution of cancer from the kidneys to the bladder may take place alon<* the ureters; from the larynx to the substance of the lungs, along the bronchial tubes; and in one remarkable case, a transplantation of cancer was observed from the upper to the lower part of the spinal canal, without any intermediate growth. Small cancerous growths have been observed in the track of an operation-wound 'for the removal of abdominal cancer, and when a tumour (cancer or sar coma) softens and bursts into the peritoneum, we find an abundant crop of new growths, which spring up, as if from seed. In such cases, the germs or solid masses take root, so to speak in their new soil, and begin an independent existence. Degrees of Infective Properties.—It is generally truo that thn greater the proportion of fibre in a tumour, the loss is its malignancy; especially intending thereby its tendoncy to con tammate the system, and to destructive ulceration On till other hand, the moro it abounds in cell growth, and in fluid190 GROWTH AND DEGENERATIONS OE CANCER. blastema, the greater is its malignant capacity. M. Simon says, ‘ ‘ in proportion as the blastema has suffered itself to undergo a fibrous transformation, in such measure I cease to recognise that which is distinctively cancerous and malignant.' Believing this to be in a great part true, we must still remember that the abolition of a truly scirrhous growth may be followed by the development of encephaloid ; the inactive fibroid structure is still the expression of the comparatively quiescent constitutional mfirmi y, v c xna_ at any time be roused to its more severe manifestations. Virchow has pointed out that malignant properties are manifested chiefly in two directions—in the infection or infiltration of the neighbour- ing tissues, on the one hand, and in the general infection of the system with production of tumours in distant parts, on the other hand; and that sometimes one of these forms predominate.., sometimes the other. The difference may depend partly upon a certain energy or virulence of the parenchymatous juices produced S tttamS. but is more closely couuected mth .he> ™c»ta arrangements; local infection being characteristic of shghtly vas- cular growths, general infection of those which are abundantly permeated by blood and lymph; a distinction which, as a genera , though not an absolute rule, seems to he very valuable. Pathologists are generally agreed m attachmg little credit to the results of the experiments which have been made lelative to Ui nroduction of cancer by inoculation, or injection of the cancerous Matter Some few are said to have succeeded, but the great maioritv have failed; in this there is nothing surprising; audit has hence been concluded that the non-production ofcancerbymoc- ulation proves conclusively “ the absolute necessity of nredisuosition ” for the development of the disease. A healthy -y» cud overcome by a» —toefeme P* l™'?VZlrTcanler -It might be reasonably conceived that £ S'%'rs rrr sr more common' tti'^cepbS stomach are commonly also . consist mainlv of fibres, those of the uterus, and both these conast mainly ^ , On the other head there are exceptions m the ca encephaloi(i. and of the meninges to be deter- The species of cancer termed epitlielia ,191 CAUSES OF CANCER. mined by the peculiarity of its site, as it seems almost invariably to be developed on free coll-bearing surfaces. J Inheritance of Cancer.—There is much probability in the common opinion that cancer is an hereditary disease. Dr. Walshe ac- knowledges his belief m the disease having thus originated in some cases which he witnessed; and, indeed, most persons might confirmatory testimony. Still actual statistical proof has not yet been afforded. Cancer is, on the whole, a disease of advancing age; it does indeed exist, occasionally, at every Fn fhfi°ff^f6 ’ botVcm'hu« and encephaloid have been observed fUl’-mand e,nTplml0Kl 18 not uncommonly seen in WnklFo C\id?°0t tender years; but the researches of Dr. W she show that the mortality from cancer “goes on steadily decade until the eigSi year, so that taking the mean of both sexes, it attains its maximum between the ages of seventy and eighty. In males the ratio of increase is more uniform than in femafes; in them ofThirto fndafiftld raPld, asf of mortality between the ages ot thirty and fifty, which “lends support to the current belief respecting the connection of the development of uterine and genital functions. The influence of sex upon the develonment of cancer is very striking; Dr. Walshe’s tables show that in £x years an absolute number of deaths from this disease, in males was^nTy 3,49o, compared with 10,146 in females, although the mean rate of mortality m the male exceeds that in the female , by seyeral who have paid attentmn to me question to predispose m some measure to cancer. More nower ful are the effects of mental distress, and of the r7fininl but EsTowh?Tll°f Ci^zedlife’ atleast’ sucb arothe'con- seems to A facF^61106 2“* ^ be obtained at present "W-ilslio ? i r ■, ^ /act of a rather opposite import which Dr than 5® ! l SheS’ 18 that a towu De lias no greater influence fact a emit0ne’, m promoting the development of cancer; in towns ■ nnnrmbf °f cancer m tbo country than in the f °,8’ thl8 aPPbes to the mean of both sexes, but takiru- the fro" ^ «-“■ oTZnJIltutiInfLt: obtained by Andral. with regard to cerebral d tb® r®sult. mg injury, show that but little is to be IttributodT’ °W~ c.us, H.bUual192 OPERATIONS FOR EXTIRPATION OF CANCER. liquors has no effect in inducing carcinomatous disease of this organ though it may have sometimes produced a state of simple induration, which has been mistaken for scirrhus. It is, however, not to be denied, that irritation may in some cases determine the formation of a cancer; as, for instance, in the scrotal cancer of chimney-sweeps, which certainly seems to be called into existence from a latent predisposition by the irritation of soot. Results of Operations.—In concluding this subject, we may offer a few remarks with reference to the effects of removing cancerous tumours by operation. In the first place, it is quite clear that the disease- is manifestly constitutional, and that no sound, real cure can be expected from merely removing its external development. Secondly, it is matter of experience, that in not a few instances surgical interference with one tumour has provoked the speedy appearance of several others. Thirdly, any attempt at removal is useless; nay, may be absolutely injurious, unless every particle of cancerous structure is taken away. Fourthly, epithelial cancers seem least prone to return after removal; encephaloid invariably does, and mostly with great rapidity; scirrhus may be checked m its progress, but fts return can very rarely be prevented The check which may be given by operation to the progress of cancer depends on the circumstance before stated, that a tumour, once formed, be- comes an instrument for the multiplication of similar tumours and intensification of the diathesis. It must requiiu^ combination of favourable circumstances, or a great intensity of the diathesis, to ensure the development of effused blastema into an heterologous growth, but when this has taken place, then the very growth and vital actions of the structure will constantly generate fresh supplies of cancerous blastema, and thus promote the formation o secondary cancers. The destruction, therefore, of the growth, which thus reacts so evilly upon the system, may be exnected if it do not aggravate, to delay the cause of the disc. - • But toe misfortune is,'that, as above stated, it does sometimes „ o-o-ravate and that fearfully, a previously indolent cancerous diathesis ’ Dr. Walshe says, “excision of a tumour seems to awaken a dormant force, cancers spring up m aU toectmns and otiIotcta with a nower of vegetation almost incredible. >' ny ano in a person of phthisical tendency. The two pnnciples^re ferred to of the cancerous tumour, in one caserdinc it. are increasing the force of the disease, an in ai > .' . different not contradictory, though opposite: t iej 'V j £ tumour and degrees in different instances, according to the kind ot tumou , other circumstances.CHAPTER VI. TUBERCLE AND ALLIED PRODUCTS. We have here to consider certain morbid products which have been sometimes classified as a peculiar kind of exudation, sometimes as new growths, sometimes as inflammatory products. They occupy as we believe an intermediate place between the two latter. They . include—(1) Tubercle; (2) Products of constitutional syphilis; (3) Lupus; (4) Morbid products of glanders, and, perhaps, other specific diseases. TUBERCLE. The term tubercle has been applied to objects so different that when the extremes are compared it will seem surprising that they should have ever been denoted by the same term. There are, how- ever, two principal classes of these objects, distinguished as grey and yellow tubercle. f/rey MMary Tubercle.—The former, sometimes called grey granu- lations, arc about the average size of a millet-seed, but vary from j^in. to 5L(Jin. in diameter, roundish, resisting under pressure, of a greyish, semi-transparent as- pect. The microscope shows thorn to consist of nuclei, small simple cells, and some larger cells with many nuclei. The existence of freo nuclei has been denied by some writers, but we often find very 8mall bodies in which no method of treatment exhibits a nucleus; and which therefore seem to bo nuclei themselves. The predomi- nant elements are, undoubtedly, ■ small cells from about to^in. in diameter, consisting Fig. 44. 6& r<? Elements from grey tubercle ; miliary granulation.TUBERCLE. 194 of a relatively large nucleus, surrounded by a small mass of proto- plasm. They sometimes approach both in size and appearance the white cells of blood or lymph. Large polynucleated cells of irregular shape, or “ mother-cells,” like the “myeloid cells of bone are also often met with, but they are not constant. These elements are, according to some observers, imbedded in a homo- geneous basic substance; but this is, in some instances, very scanty, and i3 extremely difficult to demonstrate; according to others, the cells are contained in an extremely fine reticulation, like that of a lymphatic gland, a kind of structure which has been called adenoid. We believe that sometimes a tubercle does develop into such a structure, but that in general it stops short of this degree of development. . The arrangement of these elements in the miliary tubercle is very curious and characteristic. The peripheral portions consist of distinctly formed cells, but towards the centre these become smaller and less definite in outline, and the central jiart of the tubercle is composed of amorphous or granu- lar matter, which is sometimes decidedly fatty, but has sometimes been described as homy. Since the central portions are the oldest, we conclude that this amorphous condition is produced by the atro- phy and decay of a structure pre- viously composed of formed ele- ments. The fact that when the structure has reached a certain size its elements begin to decay, is very characteristic of tubercle, and is probably connected with the fact that this growth, when it has reached this stage, contains no permeable vessels. In Fig. 45, roimueu uy ncoii/uj nnib *'“w f • . -1 • capillaries of -which are completely filled \yhich represents a minute nim- by injection from the pulmonary artery. a tubercle from the luug, it will (From an original preparation.) be seen that the very complete in- iection of the capillary network does not enter the tubercle. This does not show that no new vessels formed, but-that they very early became obliterated. A tubercle thus seems to be a structure inter- mediate between the products of inflammation aud the new growths properly so-called, being less transitory than the former, less permanent than the latter, and less capable of developimm. is form of tubercle never occurs solitary, and is generally seen m very large numbers. The disease in which they are produced has been termed tuberculosis. It is to be noticed that we generally speak of a grey miliary tubercle, or of tubercles in the plural; but it is not certain that the same product may not sometimes occur ui a more diffuse form. They are best studied on serous membranes, Fu>. 45. Grey miliary tubercle of the lung, sur-TUBERCLE. 195 especially the omentum or the pia mater of the brain; it being difficult to distinguish them in the lungs from other small masses, which owe their form to the anatomical structure of the lungs. Miliary tubercles are for the most part, though not invariably, formed around vessels, and not so much round capillaries as round the smaller arteries and veins. The origin of the elements r,G- 46- composing tubercle is variously explained, and three views must specially be mentioned. In the first place it has been supposed that a homogeneous blastema is first effused in the fluid condition, ai.d becomes organized into a tubercle. Quite lately, Schuppel has contended that the origin of .tubercle is free cell-formation from blastema within a vein. In the second place it has been held that the elements of tubercle are derived from the elements of the tissues by pro- liferation ; that is to say, that they are descendants of the connective-tissue nuclei in the walls of arteries, and the nuclei ot capillaries; or of the epithe- lial structures lining the lym- phatic perivascular sheaths (of cerebral arteries), and other forms of serous epithelium (see Fig. 46). A third hypothe- sis is that the original tuber- cle elements are white cells of the blood which have passed through the vascular wall. It is impossible to discuss these theories here, since the preference given to one over the other must depend upon general principles; the evidence not being com- plete in any particular case. It is only certain that in the vessels ot the pia mater and brain, where the relations of tubercle to vessels can be best studied, the first growth begins in that space between^the proper wall of the vessel and its outer sheath, which is sometimes called a lymphatic space. FinaUy, it should bo stated that Dr. Burdon Sanderson, believes all miliary tubercles (at least as produced experimentally) to bo enlargements of previously existing masses of adenoid tissue Miliary tubercle of the omentum and changes in surrounding parts. a. Tubercle completely formed, b. Cluster of small cells forming an incipient tubercle (mass of adenoid tissue, Sanderson), d. Proliferation of serous epithelium. (From an original preparation.) See “ Trans. Path. Soc.,” xxi. 198, pi. V.196 TUBERCLE. resembling very minute lymphatic glands, which he has been the first to observe in many organs.* Gaseous Material or Yellow Tubercle.—The substance whicn has been called yellow tubercle forms masses of varying size, but Caseous material or “ yellow tubercle.” generally larger than grey tubercle, equalling perhaps a hemp- feed, or a pea, in magnitude; but masses much larger thanthm occur in the brain, and in lymphatic glands, bo httle uniformity is there in the size or mode of growth of these masses ^ more natural to speak of yellow tubercle as a substance 1that n. as tuberculous matter, than of a yellow tubercle or tubercles. This yellow substance has also been called scrofulous matter, an since both these names may give rise tonusunderstandm .ome writers prefer to speak of it simply as cheesy matter. Whatever ™ be taken of the origin of the two forms of so-called tubercle there is an obvious convenience m denotinQ them by different names; and it therefore seems more convenient to reserve the name tubercle for the grey form, and to call^the.yelfow cbppsv masses simply caseous material. It is an opaque subota ff a Ssh-yeUow colour, and of rather brittle consistence. AL- cro=c^mcal examination shows it to consist of amorphous rnole- fufos many fotty granules, and small, shrivelled, angfoar bodi^ preserXg a good deal of cell form which are in r^ity atrophied and withered lymph or pus-corpuscles. These are the ^ “tubercle corpuscles” of Lebert, at one tune o g gnostic of tubercle. (Seo Fig* 4b.) • “ Eleventh Report of the Medical Officer of the Privy Council for lSos. Londo 1809. Appendix, pp. 91-125.TUBERCLE. 197 © 0 ® Wasted cells or so-called tubercle cor- puscles. On the right are four blood globules. Origin of Caseous Material.—Scrofulous or caseous material is the result of more than one morbid process; Billroth thus summarizes the modes in which it may be produced: (1) It may Fic. 48. be the immediate product of acute cellular infiltration or acute inflammation. This is most clearly seen in rabbits and guinea-pigs, when irritation is experimentally set up under the skin by a seton; this causing not suppuration or ulceration, but the formation of a dry, yellow friable mass. It is not quite impossible (in Bill- roth’s opinion) that a similar process takes place in some scrofu- lous affections of children. (2) Most commonly some new for- lnations, consisting chiefly of cells, such as hyperplastic lymph glands, tissue infiltrated by chronic inflammation, the central parts of a miliary tubercle or of a tumour, such as cancer or sarcoma, &c., undergo a caseous metamorphosis, that is to say, the vessels become obliterated, the tissue breaks down into molecular substance and dries, while the fluid is absorbed by the surrounding vessels. The same process may take place in tissues which are infiltrated with blood, such as the htemor- rhagic infarctus of the lungs, spleen, or kidneys met with in heart disease ; though the more common result is for these masses to be completely absorbed. (3) A caseous mass may also result Irom the inspissation and degeneration of pus, if an abscess become incapsulated and prevented from discharging its contents ; but this mode of origin is not so common as has been supposed, lhe whole process has received the name of caseation or tyrosis (Tvpoy=cheese); the result is, we may repeat, the production of what is called indifferently yellow tubercle or scrofulous or caseous matter. This caseous or scrofulous material undergoes two metamorphoses of very great importance ; one is that of soften- 7/.th° other that of cretification. Softening consists in the texture of the mass becoming more lax and moist, with notable increase of size, the change proceeding till it breaks up into a yellowish, dif- fluent, cheesy mass, which finally becomes a thin, whey-like fluid, of acid reaction, containing minute flocculi. The change seems nrst to affect the homogeneous basis-substance, which dissolves into a kind of fluid, loaded with pulverulent molecules ; the cor- puscular elements in consequence of this are set free, and, at the same time, are themselvos more or Jess corroded and dissolved J-ne softened tubercle thus consists of (1) a fluid loaded with efif’ lusecl granulous matter; (2) traces of altered nuclei and cells- te) tree oil m the form of various sized drops. It may also contain debris of the tissues. The cretifying chango consists in the gradualCONNECTION OF GEE? AND YELLOW TUBERCLE. 198 deposition and liberation of calcareous particles in the tuberculous mass, together with simultaneous absorption of the animal matter, and consequent decrease in size. It is said by Bokitansky never to take place, except in softening, or softened tubercle; but this is, probably, too absolute an assertion. Ihe cretified tubercle very often remains as a hard, irregular mass, surrounded by indurated tissue, and appears to be insusceptible of further change: some- times, however, absorption proceeds further, and almost the whole of the deposit is removed. But when this is the case it is probable that absorption had predominated over the deposition of calcareous matter from the first. CONNECTION OF GREY AND YELLOW TUBERCLE. If we were to be guided merely by the descriptions just given of the physical characters and development of grey tubercle, and scrofulous or caseous matter, we might wonder that they were called by the same name, or supposed to have any connection wit one another. The actual connection between the two is, however, doubtless very close, though there is not yet a perfect agreement as to its nature. In the first place these two products are con- stantly found in the same body, and appear to be associated with the same diseases; and in the second place they are often found m the same organs, and m such a way that one appeal = to be eithe produced by or transformed into the other. V> ith respect to the first point, there are two very different views. It has been thought bv some since the time of Laennec, that the grey miliary tubercle marksTthe^arly stage of a disease of which yellow scrofiffous masses characterize a later stage ; while more recently it has bee asserted bv German pathologists (Buhl, Niemeyer, and other*) that miliary tubercles are a secondary result ot the presence in some part of the body, of caseous products. A corresponaing (uffe- rence of opinion prevails with regard to the local connection of the Iwo Laennec maintained that the grey tuberc e or grey granula- th,n was the nascent phase of the yellow, and drew attention to transitional forms between the two. According to more recent views the caseous or softened scrofulous matter causes, by a km rfTocal infection, the production of miliary tubercles in its neigh- L°rv!Zc' of Grey into Yellow Tulercle.-Wo may say at once that J have »« *Sl"Xt'ft.^SJnot’a.TSe rth“r DouS““ey“5U tubercles or at least yellow tubercle 1S tomically a1 distinctionCONNECTION OF GREY AND YELLOW TUBERCLE. 199 we find that the yellow masses are formed not by the transform- ation of the tubercle alone, but also of the secondary products of inflammation formed round it, so that a mass of yellow tubercle often contains a grey tubercle. This is seen in the lung, where a grey tubercle becomes apparently enlarged by the (inflam- matory) products in the neighbouring air-cells. These inflamma- tory products do not at first differ apparently from those of simple inflammation, but have a peculiar tendency, instead of undergoing simple absorption and removal, and leaving the tissues intact, to break down into amorphous granular material, and involve the tissues in their ruin. This is the caseous transformation of tubercle which we believe really to exist, so that, to the sources of caseous masses before enumerated, we ought to add in a prominent place, the products of tubercular inflammations. We shall see, in speak- ing of the peritoneum, that the tubercle, with its associated products may undergo another kind of transformation and become fibrous. This is, in fact, the general rule with tubercles of serous mem- branes. Theory of Secondary Production of Grey Tubercles.—The argu- ments for the more modern view that miliary tubercles "are secondary to caseous masses, require to be stated more at length. They were originally derived from pure observation in the field of clinical and post-mortem examination, but have received a certain confirmation from experiment. Observation first led to the hypothesis that the production of miliary tubercle depended upon the absorption of degenerative inflammatory pro- ducts, producing rather a local or constitutional infection of the tissues. _ The following are the chief facts adduced by Buhl, who, with Dietrich, has been the principal defender of this doctrine. (1) The almost constant presence of yellow tubercle or pulmonary cavities in cases of miliary tuberculosis. (2) The yellow tubercle is in these cases not incapsulated, and the vomicae are not enclosed all round by dense fibroid tissue, and hence absorption is easily possible.. (3) The accumulation of miliary tubercles first begins in the neighbourhood of the seat of the primary disease, and they are at first small, soft, and grey. (4) The miliary tuberculosis spreads excentrically, so that the older tubercles which have become altered and yellow, are nearest to the focus, while the smallest or youngest aro situated at the greatest distance from it. (5) The disease has clinically the character of an “ infective” or so- called zymotic disease. The theory, as at first stated, implied that, by the caseous metamorphosis of inflammatory products was generated some iniective substance or poison, which was the exciting cause of secondary tuberculosis; but it was soon found necessary greatly to enlarge the conception first formed of the antecedent morbid changes; and to include various processes resulting not in caseation out in loss of substance, such as gastric or intestinal ulcers instances of such lesions as the probable primary source of tubercle200 ARTIFICIAL PRODUCTION OF TUBERCLE. are given by Valentin,* from post-mortem examination, and a case in winch a similar conclusion was arrived at from the clinical history is recorded by Murchison.t In some cases acute tubercu- losis appears as if it were a primary or idiopathic disease; never- theless, minute investigation has never, in the editor s experience, failed to detect some results of antecedent inflammation, such as caseous lymphatic glands, cavities in the lungs, or ulceration of mucous surfaces; or even simple inflammation, as pleurisy. It may, however, be fairly objected that the bodies of few person*, such as those who usually die in hospitals, will be free from evidences of bygone inflammation, whatever may have been the disease to which they ultimately succumbed. In one remarkable and probably unique instance of auto-inoculation with caseous matter caused by the opening of a softened “ scrofulous gland direct into a vein, the disease which resulted was not tuberculosis, but pymmia.t The consequences, however, of gradual absorption of the same material might be very different from those of rapid It has also been a matter of discussion whether the general infection was due to the passage into the blood of some special chemical substance, or of material particles; and difference of opinion has also arisen as to whether the poison was to be considered as specific, that is, the result of one kind of original disease only, or as the product of ordinary inflammation. , „ , Artificial Production of Tubercle.—Of late years it has been found possible to produce tubercle artificially in animals previously healthy, and the results thus obtained are of great value m modifying our ideas of the nature of the disease. Yillemin (I860) first made systematic experiments m this direction. He found that when masses of finely-divided tubercle, yellow or giey, or the products of scrofulous affections, were introduced under the skin of certain animals, especially rabbits and gumea-pigs, the result was, beside a certain amount of local mflaimnution, that on killing the animals after two or three weeks miliary tubercles were found in the lungs. The same appearances were seen after a somewhat longer time in the intestines and peritoneum The conclusion drawn by Yillemin from these experiments was that tuberculosis must be classed as a specific mfective^se^e. capab o of being conveyed by inoculation, like small-pox or syphiis. These experiments have been repeated by very numerous patholo- gists and after much discussion the positive results of \ illeuim have'beeu confirmed, viz., that it is possibie by the ^a^he em- ployed to produce miliary granulations in the lungs and^other organs, and that these granulations aie an^ ‘ ^ same with miliary tubercle. It was, however, soon found that the - results were attained by the subcutaneous inoc • Virchow’s “ Archiv + “ Trans. Path. Soc. X “ Trans. Path. Soc. xliv. p. 29P. vol. xx. 1SS9, p. liL vol. xxii. 1S71.ARTIFICIAL PRODUCTION OF TUBERCLE. 201 other substances, such as pieces of pneumonic lung, various kinds of pus, putrid muscular tissue; and a further step was taken by Ih\ Wilson Fox and Dr. Sanderson, who found that simple me- chanical irritation, such as that produced by the introduction of a seton under the skin, might lead in the animals experimented on to the same general infection as the inoculation of “ specific” or inflammatory products.* It seemed as if any irritation of the sub- cutaneous tissue intense enough and of sufficiently long continu- ance, or any external injury not immediately fatal, might under some circumstances be enough. In these experiments it was clear that if the absorption of any morbid poison caused general tuberculosis, it was one generated in, not inoculated, into the wound ; and there was, of course, nothing to forbid the extension of the same explanation to those cases m which inflammatory products were inoculated, since in these too local inflammation was excited. They do, therefore, remove the necessity of assuming any specific inoculation to produce the disease, although it has at the same time been found that the injection of fluid from an actually tuberculous organ produces the same infection more readily and certainly. "UC J. casos do not shut out the possibility of some specific morbid poison entering through the air, since the wounds and injuries were always open. In some instances when the setons were steeped in carbolic acid, and in others where sub- cutaneous fractures of bone were effected, no tuberculous or other disease resulted. Moreover, these animals were in all cases living under very bad hygienic conditions, such as predispose, in man at least, to tubercular disease. up. The local changes caused by the irritating substance are re- garded by Dr. Sanderson as of great importance, and are thus described by him. There may be, but is not always, suppuration: o primary and characteristic local lesion consists in the deve- oprnent at the seat of injury of granulations or nodules composed he adenoid tissue ” of His, that is, having what he regards as the anatomical structure of tubercle. Other experimenters mive laid much weight upon the caseous degeneration of the products ot inflammation, a change which is said to bo par- ticularly common in rodent animals; but this certainly does not always occur any more than suppuration. The next step (still lOUowing the same authority) in the morbid process is the infec- uon ot the lymphatic glands in relution with the seat of primary lesion: they become enlarged, indurated, and caseous. These changes are thought by Dr. Sanderson to be ossential steps in tho production of general tuberculosis. The infective material he r»« & j&g&t sraa202 CONNECTION OE GREY AND YELLOW TUBERCLE. to all parts of the body. The products of artificial tuberculosis resemble generally those of the spontaneously arising disease in the human subject. Beside granulations in the lungs and on the serous membranes there occur enlargement of the liver and spleen from interstitial growth; and secondary changes, marked by enlargement, induration, and caseation, of the lymphatic glands connected 'with the diseased organs. Deductions from the Experimental Results.—These experimental results have modified very materially though indirectly the doctrine of tubercle. They seem to show, in the first place, that secondary tuberculosis may have its starting-point in some simply inflammatory affection; that is to say, there need not be any original “deposit of tubercle” in the sense formerly understood. Secondly. It is not necessary that the inflammatory products, in order to produce secondary tubercle, should pass throughany par- ticular kind of degeneration or “caseation.” Thirdly. Though it is shown that no specific inoculation is necessary for the develop- ment of tuberculosis, it is not proved that some miasma or atmospheric influence is not concerned in its production, or that mal-nutrition does not favour it. The. same uncertainty exists here as with regard to the origin of pysemia. The theory suggested by these results may be thus summed up. Tuberculosis is generally, if not always, a secondary disease, following some local inflammatory affection; but while several processes, such as induration, suppuration, caseation of umam- matory products often concur, the conditions under which this secondary affection follows are at present unknown; since it is quite certain that all the lesions described as the precursors of general tuberculosis may occur without the development of this disease. The question is equally unsolved whetner the infective substance in tubercle (elaborated within thebodyormtroducwl from without) is something specific, or whether the effects it s supposed to produce are dependent on mere mechamcal imta- tion and obstruction of vessels. In favour of the theori oi specific disease must be urged the fact that ^testmal tul culosis has been induced in cattle by feeding them with scro- fulous or tubercular products;* and the Jsame disease R, «ud to have been produced in dogs and poultry, which have'been allowed to swallow the sputa of phthisical patien s. . . ‘ • the same results experimentally by feeding S™-pig thele tuberculous masses derived both from men and ca • mogt cases the disease produced was general tuberculos , __ conspicuously developed in the intestine andJulous over, all observers agree that inoculation wi 1 directly material produces the secondary disease more rapidly ^d^rectly than any other kind of inoculation. Altogether fi • Chauveau: “Gazette Medicate de Lyons.” 1P68, p. 650, quoted in Virchow Hirsch, “ Jnhresbericht fUr 1869,” vol. i. p* 1S9. t Virchow’s “ Archiv.,” vol xlix. p. 291.203 SYPHILITIC PRODUCTS, OR SYPHILOMA. of extreme difficulty, and cannot be said to be as yet set at rest.* Tubercle as the Primary Formation.—On the other hand, there are some pathologists who believe that tubercle is always the primary formation in the diseases called tubercular, and that as in the case of cancer or other morbid growths, the associated changes are secondary. They contend that (a) it often occurs without any preceding lesion ; (6) that lesions, per se, seem to have little or no power to produce it, without concurrent mal-nutrition and other circumstances; (c) that if it were secondary, he., depend- ent on some previous lesion or infection, it ought after a time to get well, per se, as pyiemia occasionally does, if the patient live long enough. Wilson Fox has lately urged, that in pulmonary phthisis all the changes are dependent upon primary formation of tubercle and accompanying inflammation. Caseation he believes not to take place without the presence of tubercle, and he would therefore restore the old meaning of yellow tubercle.f Schiippel has done the same for the so-called “scrofulous” lymphatic glands, which he believes to be always originally tubercular. J ° Finally, it must be said that many authorities believe in a peculiar constitutional state (of the blood or tissues)—dyscrasia— which precedes the production of tubercle, and may be regarded as the cause of its peculiar vital properties. This state maybe ' t1°( Tar!ous deteriorating influences, or may be inherited, e tact ot heredity again is explained by some as depending upon a peculiar weakness or vulnerability of the tissues. These questions ■ it is impossible for us to discuss. SYPHILITIC PRODUCTS, OR SYPHILOMA. Constitutional syphilis produces in various organs a species of . ne^ growth which is, like tubercle, intermediate between inflam- matory products and tumours or new growths, properly so called, t may be in the form of a diffuse infiltration, or of an apparently i a^lUrr\SCrT,)0(J.rTna'ss- The name syphiloma was given to these pro- ducts by K Wagner, whose account we chiefly follow. It refers principally to what are called gummata. feyphiloma, when of recent formation, is a soft homogeneous . neht,^ mWi w 'A^v^f88^?" : SoMimrfr°^\7fdebat,e which ,?rIIo!Ped-thfi most diverse views we exp esi h“SYPHILITIC PRODUCTS, OR SYPHILOMA. 204 mass of a greyish-pink colour, with either no interstitial fluid, or a very little of mucous character. It varies much in the degree o vascularity. It is onlv apparently separated by a distinct hue from neighbouring tissues. Close examination always shows a gradual transition between the two ; the formation of a capsule, if there u one, is always a secondary change. Parts of the organ m which it occurs may be completely replaced by the new growth, so as to produce isolated masses, even when it originates in a diffuse infil- tration. The most important elements of a. syphiloma are ce resembling leucocytes, and nuclei imbedded m a larger or smaller quantity of fibrous tissue. The cells are roundish, granulais from -01 to '03 m.m. in diameter, with usually one nucleus, large in proportion. The nuclei, whether separate or included m cells, have nothing characteristic about them; they preponderate m recently-formed growths and m the external parts of older forma tions. ^These elements are imbedded m a fibrous matrix in such a way that usually one cell, sometimes more, is contained m one Tmpartment. In recent growths the matrix does not amount to more than a very delicate stroma, like that of a lymphatic gland, and is only seen when the cells are at least partly removed. In later stages the amount of fibrous stroma becomes larger. Larger alveoh ff piesent, are often found to be divided m the same way into small Compartments. Each visible tumour- is made up of a number of smaller nodules. LolWed bv The type of structure just described was at first^^eved by Wagner to be peculiar to syphiloma; but it is plainly n . , shrce it isCssentially that exogenous or adenoid tissue which is often formed in chronic inflammation The °.^or' is nroducts from inflammatory is so difficult that some autbo - , Billroth') describe them under the latter term. Yirchow compares totht of granulations. The mode decay of these tumours is more distinctive than then structure. Involution of that of ordinary inflammatory products, the syptnloma oegms qiie atrophy is accompanied by more or less fatty degenera tion The central parts are first affected and become dry yeUowish tion is complete only a mass of hbr . There seems no evidence of loss of substance and con r. ' • jiery -^-pile the reason why growtli should not go 8 ,, 0f vliich we central parts are wasting; but probably g . f tho have evidence on tho outside of an old syphiloma, is a signSYPHILITIC PRODUCTS, OR SYPHILOMA. 205 fibrous increase or foimation of the capsule. The more active the absorption of the central parts, the more abundant is the capsular connective tissue. In superficial parts atrophy leads to ulceration. The starting-point of the new growth appears to be always the connective tissue or vessels; never glandular or specialized i elements. philomata are found most often iu the skin or subcutaneous connective tissue; then in the muscles, bones, fasciae, and also in • viscera as liver, kidneys, brain, heart, &c. The existence of Ua i ,mours ,°f this kind in the lungs is somewhat doubtful; ™°hfli dld"use inflaramations doubtless occur in consequence of The distinction from tubercular or scrofulous affections is not always evident; but in general the degenerated or necrotic form of - syphiloma is tough, yellowish material, tearing into shreds, but 1 ?*ot crumbling. Very seldom (we have seen it once in the liver) is it actually m a pasty condition. On the other hand, the condition may closely resemble the induration of simple chronic inflamma- tion; from which, however, the tendency to degeneration and - necrosis distinguishes it. ° Lupus.—This form of new growth is not perfectly understood, but seems, like tubercle and syphilitic products, to be intermediate •■between inflammatory products and true new growths. It is IH il ,y7lrCh°T among tumours> “d has a structure not mn i' i granulations. It occurs only in the skin (or rarely mucous surfaces), and consists chiefly of nuclei and cells, with little andTb»mgnSUbstallCe\1 T1,1-; nuclel have no sPecial peculiarities, ArroWK* ! S are h,k® leucocytes, but sometimes larger, the ?g i sT%™th°rs (Rmdfleisch) the sebaceous glands are hrbsnf wL ^disease.* It is very difficult anatomically by h’°m 10 inflammatlon accompanied Drm/n• —-chronic glanders and farcy, but especially the latter, ^cwS+i0r8e% i 1 noduleS or “tubercles,” compared by • 3pen when* Si luPus aild syphilis. They are less frequently Rtteck th° dlSeaSS aff°Cts man from the acuteness of the • Lupus erythematodcs is a different diseuse, probably originating in the glands.CHAPTER Vn. the vegetable and animal parasites oe the eumav body. VEGETABLE PARASITES. These are all cryptogamous plants, ^dedMan^J.gm6 Fungi Fungi; but one form, fcarc?na, was once reBard ^ clllor0phyU. are cellular or filamentous plants w lium or filamentous Each plant consists of two parts, J J and the organs of layer, which ramifies in thesoil ^"^Cm has in itself fructification which arise f . difficult or impossible to no obvious peculiarities, so t a tjie distinctive characters recognize a species from 1 . ’ rp^ege oro-ans produce the reside in the organs individuals. Spores are single spores which are the germs ox n , in a membrane which cells, usually without a nucle , reg.gtance to decomposition and is remarkable for its power ^ course of development chemical reagents. Fungi £ growth is much to pass through very ^tfer®f.f°^h they are placed, so that it SPSS'S- tie *®» « •“ ab°'“ to describe are truly distinct species. BCT K0T K*ora 10 “rsE The mould fungi commonly or diseased may occur in the human » )■ tQ tfie consequence rather parts, where their presenc glaucum or common blue than the cause of disease. Pent1 J identical with some mould has not been found, utoess t ^ ^ common form, asper- of the forms about to be JaW ^ oCCUrs iu many parts, and gillus glaucus, the blue mould of c ^ diseased portions of has received different names. g and has also been found akin or on ulcers; sometimes o ' occur on mucous surface* within tlio auditory meatus. It may occuiTHE VEGETABLE PARASITES OP THE HUMAY BODY. 207 In all cases it forms the ordinary and in cavities of the lungs, greyish-green covering. ° posing masses which collect round the teeth or in’the corners of les=s™s r.wST^ * *. again united (though less* closely aimosedTlo +vf0 gr°UpS al'° - groups of 16, 64, and so on TWp PP • ' to *°rm compound by Goodsir in the contents’ of the Waf first discovered regarded as the cause of n qnftninl f n^P'c^’ anc^ was one time met with in the stomach in°! dl8®?.“- Pt “> however, health; less commonlv in nfhn y conditions, as well as in has been occasionally found ^tL^8 °f- the mtesti^l canal. It tions of luno- and on onP urine in pus, in gangrenous por- a&s** l]11, FraGI WHICH ARE THE CAUSE OF SPECIFIC DISEASES. mucous surfaces. Tricho- 'bo scalp, and tho eruption tm, n&'vonn or tinea tonsurans on £5 I ""Y f-‘V03a. IteX’csUummSsTo’fibm pl!°dl70S &™ oc ° 3 soy1 in diameter, either frooFig. 49. or pityriasis versicolor. The spores aie Drawing of myooderm of favus. (Partly from Lebert.) 208 THE VEGETABLE PARASITES OF THE HUMAN BODY. small, from rdroo.1,0 T^jo1T}\> gene5^ nucleated, and with a double contour. There are also filaments, somewhat smaller in diameter than the spores. According to many excellent ob- servers the cutaneous vegetable para- sites before described are really identical, irarujruvm^^-; and are in fact, merely different stages or forms of the common penicillium differences depending upon £ StiXuon from feme of Each fom cam it ^ in {te ^STuteT5 orSedgc respecting the growth and props- is r^St^monttS'cSS known as aphthse, muguet, or ^ |j,)S and tongue of and the similar growths which "^J^ified,‘hisrhlT adults in certain fevers. It cells. Each of refracting threads, composed o o The ends of the threads the long cells contams severa g ^ ^ & large> sometimes lose themselves m masses of 1 > eg are r0Und or oval, EliSTaSd0^:- and form large masses on the ep.the- lial cells. Xn-FHNGI SHPPOSED TO BE THE CAUSE OF EPIDEMIC DISEASES. The opinion that many diseases locality at a particular time ^soiuto contact (infectious person to another, wit o har change in the blood analrf- diseases), are dependent on a peculi“ A that it has led gous to fermentation (zymosis), official returns as zymotic, to these diseases being ^ SheS hive shown the intimate Since the researches of 1 astern- an l presence and growth, connection of ordinary fermentation wiffi me 1 fm.ther hypo- in the fermenting substance, of ^ta£em*g’otic process in the thesis has been widely spread, • ^ of fungi, •which enter human body is set up by lungi ^tion unites the “ zymofic the body from the outside, lh ‘ fP.{iscas0i and were it definitely theory ” with the “ germ theory emanation of most of the proved, would afford a sa^.lsb ) diseases. Without pretend- phenomena of epidemic and infectious diseases.209 THE VEGETABLE PARASITES OF THE HITMAN BODY. mg to discuss tlie question fully, mg may enumerate a few of the facts which lend support to some such view. Certain fatal diseases affecting lower organisms, as flies and silkworms, have been shown to be due to infection by means of fungi. The parasitic silkworm disease has been studied with especial care, and is of immense economic importance. Similar parasitic affections have been observed in plants. A still more striking instance is that of the disease of sheep, known as “ The Blood,”—a disease closely con- nected with malignant pustule or charbon which affects men. This disease has been shown to be accompanied by the rapid development in the blood of minute organisms, called by their discoverer, Davaine, bacteridia. They are very small filaments which show no spontaneous movement, and disappear with com- mencing putrefaction, a fact which distinguishes them from the infusoria, which they somewhat resemble. A single drop of blood containing these organisms is sufficient to convey the affection. The same bodies have, moreover, been found in the blood of the Jiuman subject affected with malignant pustule. Though these organisms have been described as fungi or even referred to a particular genus (Leptothrix), it seems that they ought more properly to be placed in a group which from a natural history pornt of view is different, viz., that of the monads or Bactena ; forms possessing only the lowest degree of organization, ' f d standing on the confines of animal and vegetable life. The i terminology of these organisms is unfortunately far from fixed ! ?nd we h;lvc a perplexing variety of terms, such as vibrio bac- ■ tenum, micrococcus, microzyme, &c. The common rod-like bodies ■ seen m putrefying animal fluids (bacterium termo) are the most familiar examples. These are the organic forms which always accompany the special decomposition of albuminous substances ailed putrefaction; just as the common Torula accompanies the Vinous fermentation of saccharine substances, and may equally be —^ CLJLIU. nitty tJUU.il ogarded as the cause of the chemical changes. Of late vears I„a]7<?[ls fo7Tns of thes« bacteria (as with Cohn we may genetically a1?) been found m various morbid products and infec- - fluids, ihus we have micrococcus vaccinse, or the bacterium otvaccme lymph (Cohn); micrococcus septicus (Klebs) from septic iff, ar?matl0.ns, bacillus anthracis (Cohn) from malignant pustule l tiie bacteridium of Davame), &c. Others, called “ vibnones ” -have been found by Rindfleisch in pyaimic abscesses. ’ As an example of these observations, we may refer to the series meaiches inade by Dr. Burdon Sanderson, or under his direction on tiie transference to animals, and from one animal to another of a poison derived from pymrnic inflammations; this Joison pro nm' n^’ inJec^0(i mto the blood or connective tissues of animals, a disease which sometimes resembles pymmiiinth, SUbje!Co (wlth m°tastatic abscesses and a typhoid statoD sometimes is like a most intense and rapid blood-poisonim- still more remarkable is it that the same poison maygiyeTse,’ under210 ANIMAL PARASITES. more chronic conditions, to a disease resembling tuberculosis. The poison thus transferred Dr. Sanderson believes to be not chemically dissolved in the infective liquid, but to consist of particles suspended in it; and he further argues that these par- ticles are in all probability organized bodies belonging to the group Bacteria, or, as he calls them, microzymes. In support of this theory, Dr. Burdon Sanderson stales that in all infective inflammations (i.e., those produced by infective pyeemic products) in the lower animals, some of the minute organisms, called microzymes, micrococci, bacteria, &c., abound in the exudation liquids, and they are also found in the blood of animals in the state of acute infective fever. These forms he divides into two groups, of which the rod, or bacterium vibrto^jmd the dumb bell, or bacterium varicosum, may be taken as types. The latter may also be called “ still microzymes,” since they have no proper movement like the vibnones. The rods are found m the more intense and acute forms of infective disease; the dumb- bells, as well as spheroidal forms and chains of these, are found in more protracted inflammations. He further believes it will be found that forms such as these exist constantly in the exudation liquids of unhealthy inflammations in man, whether primary or secondary, &c.; and, without stating that they are the causa» of pyeemic infection, he has no doubt that by their presence in the exudation liquids thev modify, in a very decided manner, both the local changes and the constitutional symptoms. In very rare cases of pymmic diseases masses of vibriones have been found within the blood-vessels, and even attached to the valves of the heart t It may then be regarded as established that in several diseases, which have been sometimes described as septic some- times infective, organisms, resembling bacteria, blood and in the inflammatory products. It is by the greatest authority on cryptogamicbotany, Cohn t that the.e pathogenous bacteria are distinct from the accompany putrescence (Bacterium termo);—the former bem indeed destroyed by the activity of the latter. In what way t e? minute organisms are connected with the morbid changes which they accompany is yet unknown. ANIMAL PARASITES. The lowest forms of animal life known to occur pamsiticBlv are certain amteboid creatures called Grcgarum ^ch^e founds the intestines of some of the lower animals but ^ yet been observed in man. Several species of Infusoria occur in • “ Trans. Path. Soc.,” vol xxiii. p. ^ t Heiberg and Virchow. Virchow’s Archiv., vol. in. P- «« Micr. Soienee,” 1873, p. 176. . .r(! njotev } See “ Quarterly Joum. Micr. Science, 18.3, p. lob, piate r. ‘ Quarterly Journ.ANIMAL PARASITES. 211 particular situations on the human body. Paramcecinm coli is a ciliated organism, occasionally found in the cmcum and colon. Several species of Cercomonas, as C. intestinalis and urinarius the names of which sufficiently disignate their habitat, are known ; and there is an infusorial form, Trichomonas vaginalis, the special locality of which is the vagina in cases of purulent discharge. Articulata. The following insects are known as human parasites • —the common flea (pulex irritans); the chigoe of the West Indies [pidex penetrans); the pediculus capitis; the p. pubis, or phthirius ingumaiis; p. vestimenti; the common bug (cimex lectularius) Among Arachnida we find two species that frequent, the one the epidermis and the other the sebaceous follicles. The Acarus scabiei ^ [sarcoptes hominis) is a minute whitish creature, about Too size > its head is provided anteriorly with two pairs ol mandibular organs, and is furnished with four palpi, or bristles. In the adult state it has eight legs. The female is most com- monly met with, being sedeutary. She is larger than the male, being or 1° win. ^ 6 0 8 0-—- directed backwards The back is covered with bristles, 5 the two anterior pairs of legs are furnished with discs or suckers ; the two posterior pairs terminate in bristles lhe male is exceedingly difficult to find, not being fixed to one spot. He is about one-third smaller than the female, and has suckers on the hindmost pair of legs, as well as two anterior pairs. Ihe immature or larval forms have six legs only. The female burrows in the epidermis, and forms minute channels, at the end of which it may often be discovered, and where it lays its eg°-s. It does not inhabit the vesicles or pustules which constitute the eruption; these are simply excited by the irritative proceedings of the acarus. The Demodex folliculorum is proportionally much lon»> ^0“' broad; its head has two tataralpalpx, with an intervening proboscis, its thorax is supported y foui pairs of very short legs, with terminal claws, its lono- abdomen gradually diminishes to the end, and contains some granu- le ,and oli vesicles. It inhabits the hair follicles and sebaceous glands m any region of the skin, where it may be found ffiseie.heal hle pCrSOns- dt docs not appear to excite any To the order Arachnida also belong the Ixodea, or ticks, which though not always parasitic, attack the domestic animals and burner yimu: and the harvest bug (Leptus autumnalis) which :S,uudef th.e skm, apparently for the purpose of laying its eggs nefwndum. The irritation produced by these creatures horresco referens is sometimes frightful; tho whole surface wvered With red angry-looking lumps, which itch intolerably so that of scratching there is no end. What is very curious is tU Sen th:s excoodlno objective and subjective disorder tho ^uso ot offence may remain almost absolutely latent so that nffc of torment a single red speck, runningoversom n rf l u d^'H sole indication of tho mischief-working agency. If thcsJ visible212 ANIMAL PABA8ITES. irritants so easily escape notice, how much more may those which generate fevers and influenzas ? The Helminthic parasites are the most important which infest man. Of these the group Nematoidea presents us with the follow- ing forms:—{1) Filaria medinensu, the Guinea worm, from six inches to twelve feet long, about as thick as a piece of packthread. It makes its way into the subcutaneous tissue of the lower limbs and some other parts, where it remains a variable time without exciting any particular symptoms, but when its progeny are approaching the period for their extrusion it makes its way out, or is extracted by hand. The symptoms of this period are sometimes' slight, sometimes very severe. If ruptured during extraction the young escape into the cellular texture, and excite an unhealthy suppuration. (2) Filaria oculi humarii, discovered in the surround- ing fluid and in the crystalline lens. (3) Filaria bronchiaJis once found in diseased bronchial glands. Other filaria have been found in the blood and in the urine (spiroptera hominis, dactylius aculeatus). (4) Trichina spiralis occurs in the human body, both in the mature and the immature condition. The mature form ia found in the intestines of man and other animals. It is a bi- sexual and viviparous worm. The male is about vVim long; the female Ain. or -Jin. It is tapering at the anterior ex- tremity, blunt at the posterior, and has a perfect alimentarv canal divided into pharynx, stomach, and intestine, with distinct sexual organs. The immature or larval form is most commonly met with,aand occurs in muscle. It is a minute round worm, ^ to j_in long, without any obvious internal organs except an intestinal canal with distinct oral and anal openings. It occurs enclosed in a transparent cyst, which is situate in the interior of the fibres of voluntary muscles, separated by the sarcolemma from all surrounding texture. Sometimes there are two or three worms in one cyst. Sometimes the cyst contains calcareous matter, m which case the worm is most commonly dead. The history of this animal is very singular. The immature forms met with in muscle seem to be incapable, in that situation, of complete deveiopment. For this purpose it is necessary that the muscle should be eaten l y a carnivorous animal, in the stomach or intestine of which the trichina reaches in two days complete sexual maturity , propa a tion then takes place, and the young embryoes being boin alive, immediately commence their- migrations through yanous ti^, till they reach the muscles, where they ultimately settle down. In man the presence of trichina- m large numbers formidable febrile disease, which may prove . “nias^ pork containing trichina is the usual source of pathological significance of isolated specimens when encysted is not great; they have often been found in persons who have drg of different diseases, and oven m those who pcHshed v lie health and vigour. (5) Tricocephalm dispar, a thin fi^onn-T™! one and a-half to two inches in length. Its anterior two-third, ar213 NEilATOID PARASITES. quite capillary, aucl pass rather suddenly into the thicker posterior portion. The sexes are distinct, the male has a long penis invested with a proper sheath. The female produces numerous ova, few of which are probably developed. The worm is found chiefly in the crecum, adhering by its head to the mucous membrane; it is sometimes solitary, sometimes occurs in great numbers ; it does not appear to produce any remarkable symptoms. (6) Ascaris luvibri- coides, a round worm pointed at both ends, from six to fifteen inches long, of a greyish and sometimes red colour, sufficiently translucent to allow the viscera to be seen, marked by two lateral lines corresponding to the principal vessels, and by two others less distinct, and corresponding to the nervous cords on the dorsal and ventral surface. The head is separated from the body by a slight constriction; at its extremity is the mouth, surrounded by three tubercles. The anus is situated on the under surface, near the extremity of the tail. The reproductive organs consist, in the male, of a single seminal tube of great length, terminating in a reservoir about an inch in length, which communicates with the base of the penis; in the female they comprise the vulva, situated at the junction of the anterior and middle thirds of the body, a vagina five or six lines long, a uterus, which divides into two lorm tortuous oviducts gradually diminishing to capillary ovarian tubes” which are conspicuous by their whiteness, as they are coiled around the intestinal canal, They inhabit chiefly the small intestines, but roam about occasionally up into the gall ducts, the stomach, the oesophagus, and have even made their way into the nostrils and into the mouth, as happened in a girl under our care. It seems proved by Palm’s case* that they may perforate the coats of the intestino and get into the peritoneum. Sometimes they are very numerous ; one patient passed as many as four hundred and sixty in a fortnight, but this is not common; however, one would rather be mchned to expect from the appearance of one that there were others remaining behind. They have been known to accumulate so ns to obstruct the intestines; more commonly they produce only some amount of irritation, or even no symptoms at all. (7) Oxyu.ru vermicularis, a minute, white, threadlike worm, of separate sexes the male about one and a-half lino in length, the female fivo or six; the former has a spirally coiled tail, the latter a straight tapering and very delicate ono. There is a transparent tuberosity ?n t{le head, with a kind of alar membrane on each side. They inhabit the rectum in vast numbers, and may crawl out and get in temales, into the orifices of the adjacent canals. They occasion very distressing irritation, perhaps in consequence of their restless disposition, which formerly obtained for them the name of ascarides [MKafuCuv, to leap). (8) Strongylus gig as, a formidable large round worm, which attains sometimes threo feet in length, and is of n blood-red colour. The male, as usual, is the smaller, is marked • Wurtcmb. Corr. Blatt., 1663, 33, 25.CESTOID PAEASITES. 214 by circular stripe and “shallow longitudinal furrows;” at its pos- terior extremity it has a funnel-shaped pouch, from which a slender penis protrudes. The female has a straighter and more obtuse tail, and at one or two inches’ distance from it the vulva. It inhabits the kidneys, and causes more or less destruction ot this organ. (9) Anchylostomum duodenale, a round worm, a quarter to half an inch long, inhabits in large numbers the duodenum and jejunum, producing haemorrhage, anaemia, and the so-called “ Egyptian chlorosis.” It occurs in Italy, Egypt, and the tropics.* Another Nematoid parasite has been described by Lewis, under the name of Filaria sanguinis hominis as occurring in India, in the blood of persons suffering from a peculiar urinary affection called chyluria, but sometimes giving rise to no symptoms whatever. It is a small round worm, about ^in. long, and -jxooin. in its greatest transverse diameter, of the order Xernatoda and family Eilaridpe. They are sometimes found in enormous numbers in the blood, and always also in the urine.t _ . . Among the frematoda we are acquainted with four species ox distoma, which have been found, though rarely, in the human subject. The D. liepaticum and D. lanceolatum are both flat lancet- shaped worms, of a yellow-white colour, with two suckers, one of which situated at the head forms the mouth, the other is on the abdomen, and is imperforate. The orifice of the sexual organs lies between these two. They are hermaphrodite. The D. hepaticum is the larger, being eight to fourteen lines in length, and from one and three-quarters to six lines in breadth; its intestinal canal is ramified. The D. lanceolatum, is only two to four lines long and one broad; its intestine is bifurcated. They have been found m the gall bladder and ducts, and in the vena port® and its branches. Distoma oculi humani is of minute size, and has been found in the fluid surrounding a cataractous lens. To the same order belongs the Distoma hcematobium or Bilharzxc hcematobia, a parasite which lives_ in the blood itself, and feeds on its corpuscular elements. It gives rise to a peculiar form o heematuria, especially prevalent in Africa. It was first described by Bilharz in 1851; and has been studied in this country by Dr. J. Harley.]: CESTOID PAEASITES. General History of Tapeworms.—Before describing the special forms belonging to this order, which includes both the Hat intestinal worms or tapeworms, and the cystic-parasites or bladder worms, we must give some account of then- history and development, • For figure see Weber; “Trans. Path. Soc.,” 1SG7, vol. xvui. p. 274, plate viii. FTt!r! Lewis, M.B., “ On a Hrematozoon inhabiting Human Blood.” Calcutta, lbi2. t “ Mcd.-Cliir. Trans.,” xlvii. 55, lii. 379.215 CESTOID PARASITES. without which detailed description would be unintelligible. The flat-jointed worms forming the genus Tmnia, properly so called, do not by sexual multiplication produce creatures of their own form. The ova which are developed in each segment of the tapeworms produce, on the other hand, creatures of the cystic type, such as cysticercus or echinococcus, which have no apjjaratus for sexual reproduction. In or from these forms are produced, however, by a process of gemmation organisms, called scolices, precisely resem- bling the “ head ” of the tapeworm; which, when placed in favour- able circumstances, develop again into jointed worms. The creature passes through, therefore, two entirely different phases of life—the strobile form, as a compound worm capable of true sexual repro- duction, and the larval or cystic form as a simple bladder parasite. This process has a distant analogy with the metamorpihoses of insects, and a more decided resemblance to the transformations of certain lower animals which are sometimes known as the alter- nation of generations. But in the case of parasites, the matter is complicated with other conditions. In the first place the two forms of the creature do not live in the same part of the body, the tape- worm always inhabiting the intestines, while the larval form is found in various other organs ; and in the second place it does not appear possible for the metamorphosis of the parasite to take place in one and the same animal. The ova or embryoes of the taenia never pass from the intestinal canal to other parts of the same individual, nor do the imperfect scolex-forms pass from the other organs to the intestines of the same animal to undergo further development. It is therefore necessary that there should be two animals (usually of different species), one to act as host to each form of the parasite; and that, generally speaking, one of these animals should serve as food to the other. We shall see how these conditions are fulfilled in the case of the common tapeworm and the echinococcus of the liver. There is, however, one division of this order, that, namely, represented by the broad tapeworm, Bothrioce- phalus latus (lamia lata), in which these metamorphoses do not occur, or at least have not been traced. Of those in which they do occur, two, Taenia solium and T. mediocanelluta, are found in the human body, commonly in the strobile form ; another, Taenia echinococcus, invariably in the larval or cystic form. Taenia Solium—common tapeworm.—This is a flat-jointed worm, of a whitish-grey colour, attaining sometimes a length of three or four yards. The so-called “ hoad ” is at the anterior smallest part of the worm ; it is the size of a large pin’s head, nearly spherical, with four lateral suckers, between which is a circle of hooks, some- times double, supported on a moveablo organ called the rostellum. The tapering portion of the body next to the head is called the neck • it is imperfectly divided by transverse furrows, but the rest of the worm is composed of distinct segments which increase in length and breadth towards the posterior extremity. The first perfect or mature segment is usually about the 450th. Tho tapeworm pos-216 CESTOID PAEASITES. sessos no mouth, digestive or respiratory apparatus, hut is furnished ■with d system of canals opening externally, called the “water- vascular system,” the function of which is obscure. Each of the posterior or mature segments, called a proglottis, has complete male or female sexual apparatus, and when impregnated by union with another proglottis, produces within it a large number of eggs, which become developed into embryoes while still within the body of the parent. Each proglottis may accordingly be regarded as a single zoological individual, and the whole tapeworm, called techni- cally a strobilus, as a compound organism, comparable in some respects to a compound polyp. The proglottis, when it has matured its ova, drops off spontaneously from the strobilus, and is cast out of the intestine of its host. The embryoes appear to become free by the rupture of the proglottis sac, hut are still contained within an eggshell; which is, however, dissolved by the digestive juices of any animal within whose stomach it may by chance find its way. The embryoes of the human tapeworm, dispersed over the ground or in water, are taken up with the food of animals, most commonly of pigs, but sometimes also of cattle. On arriving in the stomach of the pig, the embryo or scolex is set free by the digestion of its eggshell, and aided by an apparatus of six boring-hooks which it hears on its head, makes its way through the walls of the stomach or intestine into some blood-vessel, along which it is carried into the capillaries of some distant part of the body, most commonly (in this species') into the muscles. On becoming stationary, the embryo loses its apparatus of hooks and becomes surrounded by a cyst, while it is itself converted into a bladder fined by a con- tractible parenchyma. Erom the inner surface of this parenchyma there buds forth a structure which ultimately becomes a “ scolex” form and precisely resembles the ‘ ‘ head of the tapeworm.; hut which remains coiled up within the cyst. In this condition the animal is known as cysticercus {tela) ce.lulosce : and its presence in the flesh of the pig constitutes the disease known as measles. The cycle of transformations is completed, when the cysticercus or measle is transferred by the use of pork as food into the stomach of man or some carnivorous animal, where the cyst being dissolved, the scolex becomes free, and attaching itself to the wall of the small intestine, proceeds to develop into a new strobile or tape- worm form. The frilly developed cysticercus varies m size from that of a pea to that of a small kidney bean, presenting an aver- age diameter of £in., though sometimes exceeding it consider- ably (Cobbold). Its shape is oval in the muscles, round m soft parts or in the cavities of the brain. While the ordinary course of development is that above described, it is possible for the larval or cystic form to become established in the human body, especially m the brain, the intermuscular or subcutaneous connective tissue, and more rarely the liver, kidneys, eyeball, &c.: it is in mail usually single, but there may bo several individuals, though rarely or never tho onormous numbers met with in the pig. lhe timeCESTOID PARASITES. 217 Ttenia polimn. Head and joint.-!. (Owen’s Lectures.) required for the development of the cysticercus is two months and a-hali.; the duration ot its .life is said to be from three to six years. Alter the death of the animal the body collapses and degenerates more or less completely, while calcareous deposition at the same time takes place, so that there remains at last only a chalky mass surrounded by a fibrous cyst. The taenia solium is a native ot Britain, Holland, Fia. 50. Germany, Egypt, and the Levant. Taenia mediocanellata, the hookless tapeworm, con- siderably exceeds t tenia solium in all its dimen- sions, but especially in the width, even immature seg- ! ments sometimes measur- ' ing half an inch across, and ' the width does not diminish : so rapidly towards the head. The head is without r rostellum or hooks, but : has four large and distinct - sucking discs. The uterus ““Plated than that of the species just described, pos- I lfcgfd ble the aJlUmber 01 lateral branches. The cystic or m 01 ?V8 80™ewliat smaller than cysticercus cellulosse, and of , orcans U mbabits tho muscles, head, and other hepnmm*fli ’*Td haS n6Yei’ been found in man. This species -has been more lately recognized than T. solium, but appears to be n this country equally common. It doubtless finds its way into Wmv“l0rgT?1Sm tu'0lloh the eating of imperfectly cooked i.1 is regarded by Dr. Cobbold as especially in- who IvfchSy ^po;^1111111 “ m°re C°mm°n am°ng tbe P°°r’ (J’Znl'a a small tapeworm, seldom exceeding a of whicb° tlfU imfh m Cn!gtb ; 1oomP°sed of three or f°ur segments i n kst e.xc®eds m lcnbpth all the rest of the organism, fimr? f 1 ^aS a, P°mted rostellum with thirty or forty hooks and four lateral,suckers. Tho strobile form lives gregariously in the testincs of dogs, but has never been found in man (see IV 51 ) known bH-Eo 0fit UiS tapeworm is much more important, being aLhal v^h\‘,narV l?dy U-ndor tbo1?amGS °f hydatids, echinococci, is hke lw nf 5.°' flher° 18 n0 fi°ubt tbat tbe carly development of T eXtn °lhcr r?108 of tenia’ Tho six-hooked embryo H, A ecmnococcus, by whatever means it may find its wav into wallsaX<Tt u Tr °nCQ tbere bores its waY through the luTi , * establishes itself most commonly in the liver thmmb “*° a other organs; whothcr it i, carried about tSugHieCESTOID PARASITES. 218 Pig. 51. blood-vessels is uncertain. Having become stationary, the embryo passes through a course off and tbe caudal vesicle enlarges mto a bladder composed of a fibrous external membrane, often laminated (ectocyst,, and an inner parenchymatous, or blastc-matous layer (endocyat), while there is an adven- titious cystic covering, external to all, formed by the condensed fibrous tissue oi the organ in which it is lodged. In this state it constitutes what is termed a hydatid CJEchinococcus Cysts.-V?hen cut into the cyst is found to be filled with a transparent watery fluid, having a specific gravity oi 1-008 to 1-013, neutral or slightly alkaline, containing very little, if any albumen (and thus strikingly different from serous efiu- sions), some extractive or fatty matter, and some salts, especially chloride of sodium. Such a cyst may remain single, but may also be multiplied by exogenous or endo- genous development; and occasionally a multilocular form is met with in which there is no large cystic cavity, but a ma» made up of a multitude of small cyst, not larger than a pea. The endogenous mode of development is the most common in man, and is also seen m the ox. Secondary, or “daughter” cysts, are produced witflm the urimary cyst, and within these tertiary or .?™-diogtor" cysts; while ecea further coitions. „.not uukno^ monkeys, sheep, &c., but very rare j 1 being strikingly prevalent when the forms arei rare oi a , ’^ed as° a distinct different in appearance, ^wero_ form F p;. yeterinorum, species under the names of Echmococcu ^denti’ty ‘ 0f the forms E. granulosus, E. scohcipariens, till t Taenia echinococcus from the dog. a, genital orifice. (Alter Cobbold.)219 CESTOID PARASITES. denominated by these numerous synonyms was shown by demon- strating the origin of all from taenia echinococcus. The form called echinococcus multilocularis has been observed only in man, and nowhere except in the liver. It may reach a considerable size,’ forming a tumour as large as a child’s head, but contains no con- siderable cyst, being made up of an enormous number of minute cavities with gelatinous contents, so as greatly to resemble an alveolar colloid cancer, for which indeed the structure has been mistaken. It is particularly liable to central ulceration and softening. (Virchow.) Production of Scolices.—In the two first-mentioned forms the 1 growth of the echinococcus takes place in substantially the same Fio. 52. farin?tv!o°CKCCUS’thC head retracted; n, echinococcus, the head and coronet of hooks c, echinococcus, the head extruded; d, section of wahofaoe- P y&t, with blastematoua layer, m which are seen several echinococci. manner. It is in the substance of the ondocyst, whether of the primary or subsequently formed cavities that the scolices, which £rithe “ head?,” a(lult tionim, arise, but by a somewhat noirect process. Small granulations arise in the endoci/st, which headsC!frramti m°n8r°T “ ab<lUt I‘° form scolice3 or echinococcus tieads directly; but stopping short at a certain stage of develop- ment, enlarge and become converted into » brood capsules ” or ^vfries containing a portion of ondocystic or parenchymatous membrano; in which a number of scolices aro produced3 Those brood capsules are described as being of the size of a millet seed they aro peculiar to and characteristic of the development of the220 CESTOID PARASITES, pchinococcus The origin of the secondary and tertian' cysts is b^Xs clearly mSe out. It is thought that toy ongr^ parenclymatous layer, aud that they sometime.S” S" The to T00m- ™ .o^Tiortion (called the head) which supports the germinal membrane of the l“ pein„ 0f course identical «j“f Vi to““niaCeeS>oc““„°sThe Soots are important with that ot tne ttenia i +pe means of diagnosis, stuctures, as a smgle one may often be t:he JW the s°maller Their size varies somewhat of tpe larger row from So Sin'm length7fCobbold). The head is very fre from^o to^goin. in the animal appears quently seen retracted into tde ^ase opposite the attach- of an oval shape with an onfice at thejg °PP dovn. meat of the pedrce, thSftfe”clet of hooks is ward to the middle of the lntei , bodv of the now seen marking the position of the headed ^ n(?ar echinococcus is solid and gra ■ calcareous corpuscles, bTthtaoks and calcareous corpuscles, rf seen, are always sufficiently charactenoic. both pr;man- and second- Subsequent Changes of Cysts.^ r tenseiy filled, their ary, are liable to de .?ontents'turbid with walls softer, and m debris of echinococci. At last they diffused granulous matter and debris c often tlie seat of cal- shrivel up into a caseous mass, progeny may decay m careous deposit. A yariab e n\u_ itself bein" similarly affected, this manner, without the L ■ st j” the chief cause of Inflammation of the e^tjnal envebpmg ^ ^ -t; thig the destruction of the pun Y formation of an abscess, is sometimes very acute and leads^to tne^ ^ of the adjacent which subsequently °P^sde£U„f \he acephalocyst and its^con- - ■*. «• -v or *0CESTOID PARASITES. 221 primary cyst seems to derange the nutrition of the included ones, so that they shrink up and degenerate into mere 1 arm me of cheesy consistence; these, together with an oily calcareous residue of the flmd contents, which are gradually absorbed, remain in the ulterior of the primary cyst, which itself wastes and shrinks like its included progeny. In this way another kind of cure of the i disease takes place, as the degenerated mass may remain for an indefinite time in the substance of a part without giving rise to . any symptoms. Such degenerated acephalocysts have, ft would . appear, been mistaken for tubercle. The following organs are ' occasionally the seat of acephalocyststhe liver /car egovriv, the ; peritoneum, and the underlying areolar tissue', the muscles, the bram, the spleen, the kidneys, the lungs, the bones. They not uncommonly occur in several parts at the same time. Other species of tapeworm, very rarely found in man, such as .laam nuna, Tania fiavopunctata, &c., need not be further con- - sidered here. Fig. 63. 7 Buthriocephalus lotus (formerly called Tsenia lata), the broad tapeworm, differs from Tania solium in appearance by the greater proportionate breadth of its segments, mnd by the structure of its “head,” which is without any suckers or hooks, forming a bluntly-pointed, club-shaped mass, J^in. in dia- meter, slightly flattened horizontally, and furnished with two laterally imposed fossae or grooves, called ' poBpla (=pits, hence the generic name). The anterior portion of the body is imperfectly segmented, and [enlarges in a very gradual manner. -the first sexually mature segment or proglottis is about the 000th horn the head; the total number ot joints is estimated as nearly 4,000. Each mature proglottis, which may be nearly one inch in breadth, con- “ams both male and female sexual apparatus; the generative orifices euig situated in the central line on ne ventral aspect, towards the upper ipart of' the segment. The eggs are a, ,F.V(J by s^jin., having three mell coverings and a lid-like oper- j-3«f Si Bothrioccphalus latus; head and joints, a, Generative orifices. (From Owen’s Lectures.)222 CESTOID PAEASITES. the embryoes are Z&t?AT^,er;b found regularly_ only “ „b?,te|^“atu and pSId, and Vrtarn of France, parts of Euasm, Sw , IIollan(i and Belgium, districts of Germany; les» ^urope, it occurs seldom or In this country, as well as itraveffinthe countries where never, except in persons w distribution is not inconsistent it abounds.. This pe^iaiuty °t^~eTesh-water fish may be with the conjecture of Conoid, th development; these the intermediate host m whrc t “ spontaneous migration, S Stfb'SSS one country to ane.ber by accidental means.SPECIAL PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY.THE PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. CHAPTER VIII. GENERAL OBSERVATIONS. :Ix no organ or system of the human body is there such an apparent want of accordance and definite relation between the - symptoms of disease and the structural derangements and changes produced by it, as in the nervous system at large. This is due to various causes. In the first place, our physiological knowledge of the laws governing the action of the nervous system is not on a par with our acquaintance with the processes operating in other •organs; chemistry, physics, mechanics, can be called to aid in the investigation of the healthy and diseased states of the bones the solt tissues investing them, the thoracic or abdominal viscera; and tne structure of these parts is more analogous to what meets the eye ot the scientific observer in other departments of nature It is then manifestly impossible, if we are imperfectly acquainted with the laws governing the nervous system in health, that we should IB a Clently’ to dodne and appreciate the deviations from satiafii r ®ta“dard;,iand>. in “any instances, wo must be satisfied to refer for oxpknation of the symptoms we meet with ro hypothetical analogies, or confess our entire incapability of accounting for the phenomena before us. A correct appreciation f the symptoms of disease is a point which next may be fiiirlv demanded of us if wo attempt to explain or seek for moi bid pheno mena after death; thanks to Sir Charles Bell, Flourens, Marshall HaH, Romberg, and other distinguished inquirers of the present ge’ mu<h has been cleared up which previously 1 ‘■npeaetrable tnytay; but ouAo.ns o/plJSf “ Q226 THE DURA MATER. Still but scanty; we are left, in a large number of cases,to fonn to tbe sympathetic. the dura mater. Tte most likely to be mvolvfed 3 ^ ^ the cranium favours on its external.suifewe the cl witpout; so the relation of its a communication oi aise induces a liability to commum- internal surfacei to the.^^^thin. A considerable difference cation of morbid acti mater and the cranium at exists in the SdLase ; the connection different periods oi M^ iu adult life, but is ren- is very close in ohffdho , b^^ fim .q advanced age, as the sutures dered again moi i,nnoa lose their resiliency. It is especially become ossified, and the ^ i jm.ies are liable to implicate in the latter Perl°^^sel“e • and one of the most common the dura mater as wel • fo (ddde separation of the mem- effects of blows or concussions is a toicio The dot may, brane, with bmmouhag e , absorbed, and we accordingly as elsewhere, be partial!} o nf metamorphosis. One form of meet with it in the various ^ te and is termed cephalhnema- hsemorrhage m thisi remo ; exerted during parturition, 3 produced b^thepiess^ ^ & Tarying m size >one, presenting affection of the toma; * it is P™dnce<l oyuutv| form 0f a tumour-, varying in size and is generally f°nn the parietal bone, fl.om a walnut to a h la s head on ^ ^ during labour. As to, ^ever, oFthe morbid pericranium we shall rev 1 ftature adopts the same iu the case of flee external - in the internal hsemorrhage. . Deriv. Ke^aXi/, head; and , sanguineous tumour.227 EVFLAMMATIOX OF THE DURA MATER, PACHYMENINGITIS. This may be either acute or chronic; and there are very distinct forms of the acute disease. The first form affects the external lifayer of the dura mater, or that corresponding to the periosteum, land presents the features of inflammatory action in periosteal ■coverings generally; it is never of a very active character, and soever becomes universal, while in many instances of contiguous ^'inflammation the membrane seems to act as a barrier to intercept ' ts progress. In the first stage the membrane presents a pinky .aue, which is irregularly diffused, and evidently has but little ■Tendency to spread. The injection causes the dura mater to assume 11 more lax and pulpy condition, and it is more readily detached rrom the adjacent parts. A stage of infiltration and suppuration, or •of effusion of lymph, may follow; the latter is the more frequent result of idiopathic inflammation of the dura mater, and may give ifise to induration, firm adhesion, thickening, or to new formations, such as the production of bone. In fibrous tissues generally the •Tendency to lymphatic effusion is rather on the surface, causing an attachment to adjacent parts, whether bone or muscle; in the i him mater, however, interstitial effusion is more frequently met vith, on which account the latter is more likely to show the traces :>f inflammatory action than aponeurotic or fascial expansions. When apparent adhesions occur between the dura mater and the rraehnoid, which are not unfrequent, they are rather the effect of nflammatory action and deposition of lymph on the latter than on he former. In such a case the removal of the dura mater cannot >e effected without laceration of the arachnoid, or the subjacent f^ey matter, or connecting bands or shreds are found to be drawn ut as the membranes are separated. This form of inflammation is he consequence of some disease, or, more frequently, injury of the ranial bones. Thus it occurs in wounds and fractures of the skull; nd from the contiguity of the dura mater to the skull it is very .able to be implicated in external injuries, which may assume the character of the injury to the bone, being cut, punctured, or rui.-iod; or we occasionally meet with laceration of the dura mater mm concussion at a distance from the point at which the force /as applied. The same causes that give rise to haemorrhage ‘etweeu the periosteum and bone elsewhere frequently induce xtravasation between the dura mater and the inner table of the rull; but they are all of a mechanical nature. Another frequent cause is inflammation occurring in the internal uditory passages and the cells of the mastoid process. This form i not only secondary, but also of a dyscrasic character; it is met ith chiefly in childhood and in scrofulous individuals. The disease lay be initiated in the mucous membrane or the bone ; and as the lorbid process extends towards the cavity of the cranium effusion of j /inpk or pus takes place under the dura mater, and the brain itself•22S iot?lammation of the dtjba mates. -l TViP rlnra mater is often found black, generally becomes e diseased portion of bone; and it and sloughy, especially ove propagation of disease from one is a curious fact, illustrating 0f the morbid process, tissue to another without actual of the par6 petrosa that there need not neces 7 mater. The same affection, to induce the inflammation of ^ is Uable to induce purulent otorrhcea when^ of lon^i ^ . though other inflammation m the ^^ ^rulont discharges, may also give me injuries, accompanied by nfamly if not exclusively to it. This parWar fom of Plflemm g m man- met with in early Me, , . iniury. The dura mater in such a hood it is the resuit of externalre^ ^ g]mll in the bneof the case is found moie c o y vicinity than elsewhere, and the con- inflamed sinuses and them vimn wbiie their lining mem- SefsSnfd and deprived of its lustre and smoothness, as m affecting its internal or aiacmation of the arachnoidea parietalis. hy some authors as of very uniform false mem- It is accompanied by e pi -^ith points of hemorrhage, branes on this surface often ju-A ^ to distlnguish from which it will sometimes requn^a ,g hardly met rath layers of coagulated bloocl. -nvmmia, fevers, and tbe except in general 1 Joftened coagula in the like. It .is sometimes assoc t d to say which is the venous sinuses,. and it may no primitive affection. . ... a neculiar form of chronic inflamma- 1 Chronic Pacliymemngit^ A p by yirchow under the tion of the dura matei has oeen , • pt 1S especially 4“.offrrt*s a disease of old age, an inflammatory false membrane on appears to be the production ot an_ in ^ mater> This false mem- the inner or arachnoic sui -tg newly-formed vessels are very brane becomes vascularize ’ , ation '0f blood, either between bable to rupture, causrno - ^ Rlge between the layers of the the dura mater and this set up by the repeated false membrane itself. 1 afdonts are liable, may lu- •toots of St’otto anotlier, till »«■*• quently rccui, am * formed; or else a molt c 1 considerable thickness formation of a true meiungt hemorrhage may result m the to pon. apoplectic cyst. nf the dura mater from within, an i— “ ,t6 hraucs: . Virchow = “ Die Kranhhaftcn Geschwttlste,” vol i. p. 140.ADVENTITIOUS GBOWTHS OE THE DUEA MATEE. 229 size and number of the Pacchionian bodies. Of these we shall have occasion to speak, when considering the relations of the arachnoid. Adventitious Groivths of the Dura Mater.— Little is to be said con- cerning heterologous products occurring in the dura mater; the same cause which accounts for the comparative rarity of idiopathic inflammation in this membrane, suffices to explain why it is less frequently the seat of adventitious growths than the other enve- lopes of the brain. Fibroid tumours are not unfrequent in connec- tion with the dura mater, from which they are more prone to arise than from other structures within the cranium, according to the pre- vailing law that the physiological properties of a structure are liable to influence the morbid growths springing from it. In many in- stances these tumours would come under the head of hypertrophy, rather than of heterologous pro- ducts. Both on the internal and external surface of the dura mater we fre- quently meet with small laminae of bone, which in many instances maybe owing to chronic inflamma- tory action, of which no other trace is left. Some writers deny that the ossifications found on the inner sur- face of the dura mater are the pro- ducts of this membrane; they view them rather as growths belonging to the arachnoid, an opinion to which we demur, both on account of the position in which these bone do- posits are found, and from the gene- ral endowment of periosteal tissues, to which class the dura mater un- doubtedly belongs, togeneratebone. These ossifications, which are easily separated from the dura mater, and are generally met with along the falx, must not bo confounded with Fid. 54. A portion of dnra mater, exhibiting a mass of bone-lilce substance of low conical form, attached to the side of the falx cerebri. The patient, twenty- eight years old, had been subject to severe headaches from boyhood. A fortnight before death acute headache supervened, followed by delirium, partial paralysis, and insensibility. There was copious effusion of lymph in the cerebral membranes and ven- tricles. * Lateral view of the same. St. Bartholomew’s Museum. Series vi] No. 46. Catalogue, vol, i. p. 201. the hypertrophy of the frontal and parietal bones, said to occur durmg pregnancy, and hence termed, by their discoverer, Rokitan- sky, puerperal osteophyte. Tho most remarkable instances of genuine ossification, or of osseous deposit in the dura mater, are occasionally met with in chronic hydrocephalus, whore it seems w indicate an effort of Nature to afford extra protection to thoADVENTITIOUS GROWTHS OF THE DURA MATER. 230 diseased brain. A delineation of this affection is given in Dr. Bright’s medical reports. . . . ,. c Cysts of the kind called dermoid, arising from an involution ot the integument at an early stage of development, and containing fat or hair, sometimes occur in the dura mater, and may fctretci1 inwards into the interior of the brain. A remarkable case ot this kind is referred to by Mr. Paget, and carefully described by Dr. J. W. 0°ie.* It occurred in a child two and a-haii } ears old; the cyst contained a lock of dark hair, with some fatty ^Growths of a lipomatous character are occasionally found attached to the inner surface of the dura mater. . We have already seen that the dura mater is frequently subiect to secondary inflammation, owing to the extension ot scrofulous or tubercular inflammation from adjoining bones; it may thus, as also by extension of tubercular disease trom the cerebral tissue, become the seat of tubercular deposit; but the primary deposit of tubercle in the dura mater is probably never ^Cancerous Tumours.— Tumours of a cancerous nature not unfre- quently grow from the dura mater; and, although the term funj^s of the dura mater” may occasionally have been falsely apphed to carcinomatous formations within the cranial bones, still morbid anatomy supplies numerous instances of undoubted cancer of the dura mater. It occurs either in the form ot an infiltration of the membrane—in consequence of which the dura mater becomes thickened, and may, by degrees, communicate the carcinomatous infection to the arachnoid, or the bones ; or it assumes the torrn o a rounded tumour, which generally consists of medullary cancer, and pushes its way through the adjoining bone. It is commonly very vascular, and generally occupies a situation near tie vertex When it forces its way through the osseous panetes, these form a ring round it, and the external table ot the cranial bone will prefent a smaller opening than the internal table Its growth becomes very much more rapid when it has passed the bound, m whTch it is first kept by the skull, and the soft parts soon become mYSypMl^yrowths of^the dura mater are not unfrequently observed. They may grow on the outside, and then cause erosion of the bone- or on the inside, when causing adhesion ot the arach- noid they may penetrate through the membranes into he brain itself They usually form roundish, flattened masses, which may af+oin i thickness of one-tilird. to halt an inch. . .. Defects and Malformations.—The dura mater mely exhibite any midformation or defect, beyond those spoken of, except that the • “ Trans. Path. Soe.,” vol. vi. p. 12. . , ■ << path. Soc.,” vol. iv. + Cases of cancer of the dura mater may be found in irons, xanu o , 1853, pp. 2 and 7.231 ADVENTITIOUS GROWTHS OF THE DURA MATER. falx is occasionally found cribra.ted, and that in old people the dura mater presents slits in the vicinity of the longitudinal sinus, varying from two to four lines in length, through which the Pacchionian glands have forced their way. The records of the Pathological Society of London contain the account of a very rare defect of the falx cerebri, exhibited by Mr. Shaw.* Dr. Brightf also gives a similar case, in which no trace of the process was visible anterior to the tentorium, and it was assumed that the defect, which occurred in a lady thirty years of age, had existed from birth. * Reports of the Pathological Society, 1847-48, p. 178. 1 Medical Reports, vol. i. p. 150.CHAPTER IX. the arachnoid and the pia hater. The traditional doctrine of anatomy, Hat the arachnoid is a serous SWe of the same character as the pleura or pcncardrum ifTV»a%0,; i »ppir bears a very intimate mutual 1 elation. _ P ® --l tp-pni » 1 ss^ssaa the arachnoid and the pia mater to name. vhlle refinement in these distinctions, - ,, structures "under limitation of disuseHe.one or the oth^ cases of disease consideration, while on tne arachnoid or serous ESrS>Sr4tpSon of *. true student if we tieat ot tne m HP . o-0 on those cases SSt- or ».W-T appear e-lusirely ot gestion or hypercemia of the aia changes in the physical after death, we constantly mee the 'result of increased characters of the membrane w^ch are^jesmt ^ ^ the action, though the history oft y and thickening of the occurrence of actual mflammatio . I • . j ^sphercs, aro so arachnoid, especially on the surface of the licuusiTHE ARACHNOID AND THE PIA MATER. 233 frequent after the middle period of life as almost to merit being classed under the changes of involution, but they are most marked in habitual drunkards; in delirium tremens they are often the only morbid appearances to be found in the cranial cavity. This opacity is commonly accompanied by more or less serous effusion, which fills the sulci, and raises the membrane from the surface of the brain. Instead of being transparent, and allowing the vessels of the pia mater to shine through, the surface looks milky to a greater or less extent, and more particularly on the surface of the hemispheres. Owing to the obliteration of the sulci by the serum, the affected portion of the cerebrum often looks as if the convolutions were compressed, but on removal of the serum the cause of this appearance at once becomes evident. The subarachnoid effusion may be independent of any affection of the arachnoid, and has been then thought to be due to congestion of the pia mater. It is probable indeed that this is sometimes the case, from the great abundance of vessels in the latter membrane, and their paucity in the arachnoid. Congestion of the vascular net-work contained in the pia mater is extremely frequent, though we are more often left to infer it, during life, than that we find it after death. It is the very natnre of congestion to disappear'in articulo mortis. Still, there is a sufficient number of affections, in which the vessels of the pia mater have been shown to be gorged with blood, without any further accoKqjanymg morbid conditions of the adjoining struc- tures ; thus we meet with it in cases of pertussis, of fever, of capillary bronchitis, or disease of the heart. Accumulation of Fluid from Atrophy of the Brain.—-From what- ever sourco the serous effusion may be derived, there can be no doubt tha t among the most frequent determining causes are atrophy and amemia of the brain. The cranium being a close cavity of virtually invariable capacity, it can be filled only by varying proportions of three substances, viz., blood in the vessels, watery fluid in the subarachnoid spaces and ventricles, and the brain substance itself. Thus Mr. Hilton has shown by experiment that by increasing the blood pressure in the cranial veins, watery fluid is driven out from the cerebro-spinal cavity and the ventricles which are in connection with them; and this is equally true of the fluid in the subarachnoid spaces. Whenever then, from deficient blood pressure through the failure of the heart’s action, or from deficiency of brain substance through atrophy, there is, so to speak, a tendency to form a vacuum, watery fluid is poured out to supply the place; though the precise source of this fluid is not yet known. It should be remembered that the subarachnoid or cerebro-spinal fluid is quite different from the serous effusion of other parts of the body. It is a thin watery fluid, of specific gravity 1-007, containing salts but scarcely any albumen; and is thus at once distinguished from “ inflammatory effusions” in not bemg coagulated by heat. The chief conditions in which anHAEMORRHAGE INTO THE ARACHNOID. 234 excessive quantity of fluid is seen in the subarachnoid spaces are chronic heart and lung diseases; kidney disease; alcoholism, and, as has been said, atrophy of the brain, such as that resulting from old age and starvation. It generally accompanies an excess of fluid in the ventricles and cerebro-spinal space; and a genera cedematous condition of the brain. It has been thought that fluid mav be sometimes suddenly poured out, causing a kind of acute oedema of the brain, or one form of the so-called serous apoplexy; ” but the reality of this condition is more than questionable. A large quantity of fluid is generally found m cases of sudden death. , , -A -q • There is no doubt that, occasionally, the subarachnoid fluid is attributable to cadaveric changes; it is, therefore, necessary o Fig. 55. creased vascularity. . » Enlarged Pacchionian bodies. be circumspect in at once attributing its to morbid action. The amount and position, and, more P^cuia y the concomitant appearances of the pia mater ^daraclmmd^an the state of nutrition of the brain, must assist us m determining the question in the individual case. HAEMORRHAGE INTO TnE ARACHNOID. Wo come now to the consideration of hsemorrhageuntothe cavity of the arachnoid, a subject which presents a pec >235 HAEMORRHAGE INTO THE ARACHNOID. being; the form of cerebral sanguineous effusion most common in childhood; the reverse condition obtains in adult life, when h;e- morrhage within the cerebral tissue is the prevailing form. We have already alluded to one' variety of haemorrhage occurring in the tissues of the head in the new-born infant, which we stated to be the result of the mechanical pressure exerted during parturi- tion ; the same cause may give rise to arachnoidal effusion, which then commonly and speedily proves fatal. In this case we find a larger or smaller quantity of fluid blood investing the upper surface of the brain; but, if the child survives the immediate shock of the Fig. 56. « Z?113 represents a portion of the dura mater divided from above, and showing* w*u^“.was filled with coagulated blood. The coats of the sac presented nearly e same thickness as the dura mater.—St. Bartholomew’s Museum. Series vi. No. 25. apoplectic seizure, the effused blood will undergo those series of changes which indicate the tendency of the natural processes to restore the parts to their normal condition. The first step is the formation of a coagulum; the fluid portions are absorbed, then, by degrees, the colouring matter passes through various changes till it also disappears, and we find, in the place of the original coagu- lum, a membranous formation, which is more or less organized and may be shown to contain a capillary system of its own. It ^ a singular fact in the pathology of the disease, to which MAI Billiot and Barthez were the first to draw attention, that, unlike cerebra1 hemorrhage in the adult, it rarely gives rise to paralysis in the child, a circumstance explained by Dr. West,* upon the M*D.<LLondon Diseasos of InfuI‘cy and Childhood,” p. 40. By C. West,236 PACCHIONIAN BODIES. principle of the blood in the latter instance being almost mvarmhly effused into the cavity of the arachnoid, in consequen^ofwhich the effects of the pressure act more unifoimlv of the cranium. The changes m the effused blood may howeve^ assume another form than the. one just descnbed, and it m important to he aware of the circumstance, as it may smral - hydrocephalus. Instead of the serum being absorbed, it nmy become enclosed in a false membrane, and remam as a persiste sac, exerting an amount of constant pressure upon the subjacent brain, sufficient to cause flattening of the surf^ and to as is generally the case, a considerable impairment of the mteUect. When these cysts are once formed they have a great l • - passive resistance, and rarely dimmish m size. 1 Superficial or meningeal haemorrhage occurs more rarely in t adult, except as the result of injury. . •> y, aw. Three interesting and instructive cases are ^ t crombie * and we also find a few instances recorded bj Ui Dn0M T TnThe former nothin- was found either in the brain or the other viscera to account for the effusion; in one of Rouses contained in the Medical Reports there was an hypertrophy of the heart, £ SotC the haemorrhage war due to the Jg™ of »jmM aneurism in a third no lesions were found, and m two others tne Eorrkge was attributable to a fall and the viscera do not bate lymphatic glands. granular matter, and gene- network, containing some tlh o s g^ surface. They rally occupy the vicinity of the mmUme. ^ q£ siuuses> aud often cause perforations of th membrane when the brain may thus appear to belong o . (ievcjopment, at times, s£Mss co^riartSS v. - « “Pathol, andPract. Researches,” &c., P. 212. p tt Hewett’s paper in the t Medical Reports, &c., p. 266.. See also Mr. lrtscort u “Medico-Cliir. Trans.,” vol. xxyui. ... T.0ndon. 1859. . „ } “ lectures on Pathologioal Anatomy, p. ' c0uirlobatis Dune Meningis. § “ Ant. Pacchioni Dissert. Epistolary de Olaudulis confeiou Romeo, 1705.237 MENINGITIS. been given them, and we should be inclined to attribute to them no higher importance than that belonging to warty indurations on the surface of the body Luschka, who has especially investigated the Pacchionian bodies, confirms this view, and describes them as cactus-like projections from the arachnoid, of a fibrous organiza- tion, vascular, and covered by a scanty epithelium. He regards them as normal constituents of the membrane, but states that the hypertrophy to which they are liable may be the cause of death by the pressure they occasion. According to Axel Key and Eetzius, they are of great importance in regulating the amount of the subarachnoid fluid, being, in fact, the channels by which the excess of this passes into the veins. Other new formations of fibrous tissue are sometimes met with, occurring in a more diffuse form, and producing fibrous masses, which may resemble cartilage in appearance though not in struc- ture. Bony plates are formed in the arachnoid, sometimes as a consequence of inflammation, over the seat of an abscess or focus of softening; sometimes without any obvious cause; in other cases they appear to be ossifications of fibrous thickenings. Small epithelial growths and the fatty masses called steatoma, which are also probably of epithelial origin, are occasionally found bn the arachnoid, but have little importance. Pigment is sometimes found in considerable quantity in the pia mater and arachnoid, with or without melanotic tumours; some- times associated with pigmentary changes in other parts. Mela- notic tumours are distinguished by Virchow* from the groups of melanotic sarcomata and melanotic cancers, and resemble some of those found within the eyeball and on the skin. MENINGITIS. Arachnitis is a term used synonymously with meningitis, to designate inflammation of the arachnoid and the pia mater. The nosologist may at the desk draw numerous fine distinctions, and classify symptoms so as to produce a uniform system of morbid processes, but Nature does not bind herself to laws of this descrip- tion—a remark which applies forcibly to the attempts made to dissever inflammation of the visceral plate of the arachnoid from inflammation of tho subjacent pia mater. Whether in the course of pathological research we shall be justified in establishing more _ minute divisions than we are now able to do is not the question; but wo deem it especially our duty throughout this work to place before the student of pathology facts which we may recognize in the dead-house from their having beon previously observed by trustworthy inquirers, rather than to show him a maze of systems which have long been the opprobrium of scientific medicine. • “ Die ICrankhaften GesolmUlste,” vol. ii, p. 119. Pjg8.12s, 129SIMPLE ACUTE MENINGITIS. 238 There are then two principal forms of inflammation feting the arachnoid and pia mater Simple meningitis and tubercula meningitis. SIMPLE ACUTE MENINGITIS. t„ +V.TS disease three points especially deserve attention—the i tUtt of rhe membranes, the adventitious membrane formed vascularity of the memrna mate aud the effusion of serum We may, according to the stage and 1. p . i disease meet with either of these appearances, or fCZvltffi to .am, individual. It th, pafcut ha. S in the early stage of the disease we find, on removing the dura that the subjacent membrane shows a great ^crease of matei, th ^ be s0 intense as almost to resemble the vascularity, Y touch will, however, speedily f^Tthe Sal’nato of the discoloration. .The congesfion detect the ie ,, H11rface or appears m circumscribed spreads ®S-n<r a portion of the arachnoid we shall find the patches ; on rem g P down ^ t]ie pia mater between the congested vess 11. £ f lympb bas taken place a membranous convolutions. I^ef“hereVd there to inteiwene between the expansion Will De ioun -marbled appearance, or bands effiied stretching , p wafer and more, and most commonly attains e ° portion of the hemispheres. The lymph itself occupies the uppe 1 and presents the same variations dips down into tlLe- tSat tlris prodxxct of inflammation offers of density and consistencj^ ttasjr{ ^ elsewhere m pr°P°rt of tbe base, especially about the effusion beneath th the part to resemble the appearance optic chiasma, which , 1 fluid (from two drachms to of jelly, and a small am unUt sirnn ^ ^ ^ fonn of arach- an ounce) in t e\ a meanB necessary accompanunents. The mtis, though by n meningitis, offers no appreciable braid, id duridglife may derangement of 8^ il- tw that its functions were involved. The have shown very manffe y h t aracbnitis is not an occurrence formation of pus “V ^Zessary to bear in mind that it is a of frequency, but it ^ kable?nstance of this occurred under pathological fact. , Hospital, in a young woman m our observation at St. Mary ^supervened, and after thirty- whom sudden and j bad previously suffered from six hours terminated m death._ a0 eTidence of cephalic otorrhcea, but on her ato traced after death between the6'Affection If the oar and oro°SIMPLE ACUTE MENINGITIS. 239 pus spread out under the meninges; the microscopic examination of the fluid satisfactorily demonstrated the characters of pus. Cases of meningitis are now and then met with, in which the arachnoid appears perfectly transparent and normal, while there is vascularity of the pia mater, with subarachnoid effusion. We Fig. 57. one on each panetal surface, concealing the subjacent convolutions ^ patches, should here be inclined to assume an idiopathic affection of the pia mater, and it cannot be denied that the evidence in favour of primary and independent disease in that membrane is stronger than any arguments adducible in favour of the same disposition^,i la^rTffo110111' )Ve CarnTlbllnd ourselves t0 the fact that the tho “TH \U lts behaviour from the serous membranes of the thorax and abdomen, m the rarity of inflammatory effusion Mcurrmg within what we must term the sac of tho arachnoid if CarrVr 00k T)U * in tbe same tight as a serous mem- is vorv ?XUidatl01i °nlhe ?ltornal surface of the visceral arachnoid <■; V xi ^ Wltb, either alone or accompanying inflamma- exud-Pi h<3 P1r, mater; and seldom also simultaneously with Sit ‘n T I '0 1Ilnel' -r ^ °* th? Pai'ietal a™ohnoid, a condition which, rare as it is, is associated, only with morbid 2 nnS ? i0dur? mat6r; 'Ih030 facts show very clearly the pathological independence of the so-called visceral and parietal poitions of the arachnoid sac. i I°rm\0f ^^'fra-T-Meningitia sometimes especiallv affects the vertex, covering tho convex portion of tho cerebiS hemispheres ; sometimes, especially tho base of the brain extend mg over the pons Varolh, the optic chiasma and some’ accent240 SIMPLE ACUTE MENINGITIS, parts of the hemispheres, especially in the well as downwards over the medulla oblongata and part ot ine hfa£SS5 tie cerebellum. The UM* gj fimrlc, its wav along the velum mterpositum and the cnoioiu pS»2.iItothe ifte.ior of the brain We hare tbmi torepn«- cipal forms of simple meningitis viz., that of the' f ^ iSifSSSft-the ^££*£S?S times without any obvious ca . , tubercular orowth in the ceees The say here that. Seacular supply the brain, which, as is well hi > fieurium or mania ; while from the pia mater, producing naralvsis of some of the meningitis of the base is hah e ^ and ig especiany cranial nerves arising fiom < ‘ on tpe medulla ohlon- characterized. S^J°“gangL, caused by the large quantity gata, pons Yarolu, 01 centiai g o ’ ts both the ventricles and of fluid effused. This hqmd(effusion fluid (subarach- the space usually occupied J , hemispheres, and press- noid space of Hilton), eSTBattimug ‘of the ing them upwards against the . js vcry obvious convolutions and oblitera °Y. t] 's(, phenomena occur as the Sttf'^VS^e"^ ^ condition - acute hydrocephalus. _ o-etp-nd as has been said, into J5±S l‘t”f & conditions of which part, will he considered further on. . ... • „ T Mm-chi«on: “Trans Path. Soc.," * Payne: “ Trans. Path. Soc. vot x»; P-g^d^0n : Ibid. xvi. p. 30. vol. xviii. p 14. Dickinson: Ibid. xx. p. a.241 TUBERCULAR MEXINGITIS. The deposit of tubercle on tho pia mater of the brain occurs in the shape of small miliary granules, resembling the Pacchionian bodies in appearance, hut differing from them both in their site and their microscopic relations. They are not seen on the free Pio. 68. *™ary 1tubvrfil0.S in, th® Syl™n fissure of tbe brain of a child, aged nineteen P”nt.bs’ wbci died ten days from the first appearance of head symptoms The white blood-ve^S’H repre8ent the tubercles, which were surrounded by highly-congested SUI'[ai-'° of tbe arachnoid; and, in fact, seem in no way connected with this membrane ; a point which establishes a marked difference between it and the serous membranes of the thorax and the abdo- men. They are found most frequently deeply within the Sylvian p,*Jre’ U1 the convolutions of the brain, and at the base; they are 01 the size of pins’ heads, and appear in the form of grey granu- lations, imbedded among a vascular network ; they are very rarely lound upon the cerebellum. A careful examination is necessary to prevent their being overlooked; but if not seen on the pia mater useil they may often bo found on the minute vessels proceeding mom the pia mater into the brain or on the delicate processes of Pia mater which dip down between the convolutions. Their presence is always associated with more or less inflammation as shown by the production of yellow false membranes in the situations pointed out above as the usual seats of meningitis of tbebase. Tho amount of inflammation is by no means nro rntli101? !° th? numbo11' of tubercular granulations, but seems rather to depend upon tho rapidity of the tubercular process • as m very severe cases of acute general tuberculosis there may be numerous tuberclos, and very little inflammatory product while242 TUBERCULAR MENINGITIS. in more chronic cases the signs of inflammation are very obvious, hut it may require prolonged and careful examination to discovu any trace of tubercle, if indeed it be discoverable at all. lms affection is well known to he common, and extremely fatal in childhood, and is also the most perfect example of the anatomical features of tubercular growth; so that on both clinical an<i ■pathological grounds it is worthy of careful study. Minute Anatomy of Meningeal Tubercle.—In order to examine the pia mater, in cases of tubercular meningitis, it is best re- moved by causing a moderately strong stream of water to play between the membrane and the brain. A small portion shou ( then he cut from one of the septa between the convoiutions, choosing that part where there is the least possible di^ = visible to the naked eye. On examination with ^ low power of the microscope it will at once be seen that the smalles tubercles are in very close connection with small blood-vessefa, and rather with the ultimate divisions of arteries than with veins or capillaries. They may he seen to form a distinct projection on the sides of these vessels, very frequently at a bifurcation, and are thus at once distinguished from the fibrous granulations sometimes met with, which are situated in the middle of the vascular meshes. The best specimens are sometimes seen on the small vessels P10Cee fug from the meninges into the brain ; which if the pa mater be removed, as above described, are very perfectly preserved. If the case be one of very rapid disease the tubercular growths are sevn quite sharply defined, but otherwise they are often covered by a quite snarp y cloud> which nothing can remove, and which PIG. 59. is due to the participation of the contiguous portions of the pia mate r proper m the mor- bid process. Often two adjacent vessels or branches become united, as represented in , the fio-ure. When examined with a higher power it can be seen that these projections are really covered by a delicate membrane, which expands from the vascular wall, and that they are in fact situated within a deli- cate sheath, which also encloses the artery. This sheath is in fact the pen-vascular ? of KrewtTire chiefly Sail colic (someyyhat arger ST. red Hood fo.ja.scl.) mth a surrounding the nucleus ; but * Xi iSS appearances are . see the excellent CnrA“oc.,'^ x^Cp. ,?81, Plate £ h “ ‘“d m.nvirr. “ Manuel d’flistologie l’ftthologique, p. 203.TUBEKCULAK MENINGITIS. 243 proliferation of the original tissue cells; but there is not yet a perfect agreement as to their precise parentage. Virchow and Eindfleisch described them as due to multiplication of the nuclei normally existing in the outer coat of the artery; while Dr. Bastian, resting on later researches into the anatomical structure of the peri-vascular sheaths, regards them as proceeding from the epithelial cells (endothelia of the Germans) lining these cavities. Accompanying Inflammatory Changes.—The, inflammatory pro- ducts associated with tubercular meningitis do not usually differ much from those produced by other inflammations. Sometimes however, they show a much larger quantity than usual of mere granular amorphous matter and fatty molecules; while some- times they will be found to have undergone a true caseous metamorphosis, and to have become converted into what is called scrofulous or tuberculous matter. The tubercles themselves it may not be superfluous to repeat, are liable to undergo the same kmd of change, and in cases which are not perfectly acute may be found to have become fused into one amorphous mass with the surrounding parts. The rapid progress of the disease never gives time for actual softening or the formation of cavities Tubercular meningitis, like meningitis of the base proceeding from any other cause, is particularly liable to produce copious effusion into the ventricles, especially the lateral, of the brain, and hence has received the name of acute hydrocephalus; which, in the great majority of cases, means tubercular meningitis. J Causes and Antecedents of Tubercular Meningitis —This form of menmgitis is generally, some pathologists say always met with m connection with or secondary to tuberculosis or other organs; though we see it occasionally in the idiopathic form, as in the instance from which our delineation was taken where no tubercular deposit was found in any of the viscera beside the brain. In the former case, the tubercular deposit may take place so insidiously as to offer no marked inflammatory symptoms during life; and it is only on the dissecting-table that the physician becomes aware of the cerebral disease. It must there fore, he borne m mind, that scrofulous children have a tendency to become afflicted m this manner. Meningeal tubercle being always of the miliary or discrete form is but one variety of that acute tubercular process which has been thought of late years to fclTTu TfviV° tr> flo-onerutiyo changes of various kinds, iaking the definitions of such changes in a very wide sense if T 1 w {°r\that ™cmnSeal tubercle is only in the rarest cases found to be the original morbid process. The antecedent disease fom oA r?8’ h?WCVOr’ tub/"c]0 of «tlier ^'gans, but may be any If degenerative or scrofulous inflammation, or anything which results in the formation of caseous masses; such as LraS miymphatm glands, leading to so-called scrofulous1 ^eiSsits caseous or scrofulous pneumonia of the lun^s caries of v,™ ep<?®}t8> * * *•» « r»ts; «* perhaps244 MORBID CONDITIONS OF T1IE VENTRICLES. ETC. monlv supposed tubercle of the brain itself. In one case mentioned bv Dr. Hillier,* abscesses and pustular eruption of the skin seem to have been the primary affection ; and a precisely similar case lias fallen under tbe observation of the editor. Dr. V\ dks t states he has in no case, however young, found the lungs tree ; but the results of other observers are not so absolute.; Collections of cases bearing on this subject have been made by VI eber,, Yalentin,|| besides the authors already quoted. MORBID CONDITIONS OF THE VENTRICLES AND CHOROID PLEXUS. The inner surface of the cerebral ventricles is so closely con- nected with the external membranes of the brain as to be seldom unaffected when these are actively diseased. The precise nature of the structure lining the ventricles is not quite dear scmie nmfomists o-ivino1 and others withholding the name of a true membrane. ° The name ependyma may be used without assuming “inihTmmrfion of the ependyma and choroid plexuses often accompanies meningitis of the base of the brain whether simple or tubercular. In some cases there is seen merely great fulness of the plexuses and remarkable vascularity of the walls (which are normally very pale) accompanied by a considerable accumulation of fluid (which is distinguished from he norma cerebro-spinal fluid bv containing a large amount of albumen and perhaps p and some disintegration of the cerebral substance. In more advanced cases there will be inflammatory surface either of the plexus or the ventricular walls and the fluid contained in the ventricles will be turbid from the presence of uus and of disorganized cerebral tissue. The ventricles are m aU cases greatly distended, and the septumlucidum sometimes broken down° Minute haemorrhages are extremely common both mthe substance and in the inflammatory false membranes. Tlus affection is seldom or never found independently ot true meningitis the cerebral ventricles seems to occur SCS SZ.7tS. The surilce often Merough to the touch and looking at it sideways m a good kght it may be the toucii, ana » minutc granulations, which are generally seen to be coukHraina of very white sand or fragments rfgllr These granulations may be “as large as hemp seeds, . “Diseases of Children” p.172. ^nclon, 1S6S. + Hous'd *'ea^ ’recorded in this work are worth notice.HYDROCEPHALUS. 245 giving the whole the appearance of the leaf of an ice-plant ” (Wilks). These granulations are distinctly cellular growths, springing from the ependyma itself. In what seems to be a later stage, the new formations take the character of connective tissue, and distinct fibrous layers may be met with.* Thickening or chronic inflammation of the ependyma is so common in advanced life as hardly to be considered a disease. It usually accompanies some degree of atrophy of the brain, and is associated with ac- cumulation of clear fluid in the cavities. In younger persons it has been thought to be the cause of accumulation of fluid, and has therefore been set down among the causes of hydrocephalus, a condition which is so important as to deserve separate treatment. Hemorrhage into the ventricles is never found except as a conse- quence of haemorrhage into the brain itself. Tumours and new growths are not common, and generally arise from the choroid plexus. Fibrous tumours, fatty tumours, and enchondromata are recorded. Parasites. The cgstkercus celluloscr. has been found lying free in the cavity of the ventricles.! Sir William Jenner has detected sarcmce in the ventricular fluid in a case of cerebral tubercle HYDROCEPHALUS. The etymology of the term indicates the main feature that characterizes this morbid condition. It is truly a dropsy of the bram, and, like dropsies in other parts, is favoured by a relaxed and soft condition of the surrounding tissues. The anatomical peculiarities of the fcetal and infant head at once indicate why it should commence at those periods; while the mal-nutrition upon Which it is based, and the further impairment of the important oigan in which it occurs, are sufficient grounds for explaining its great fatality, and the infrequency of the children affected with it •i.ii \ iv,tig to reach manhood. Instances are, however, on record, o individuals in whom the parts accommodated themselves to the morbid effusion, and life was prolonged far beyond the period of childhood. The most celebrated case of this kind is that of James L-arcUnal,! who attained the ago of twenty-nine, though he had it .existen^ and character of the ependyma itself are still matters of disnute Whe4 H bc superfluous to give a few directions for demonstratingitepeBulStiS’ st sans* st ife-steSs gbcerme or otherwise. The method will not snppoprl by immersion in tlndrew :n^am^pitRXr xxf L °f ^ ^ C“<!’ * Ur. Bright’s “Medical Reports,” p. 431.216 HYDROCEPHALUS. been hydrocephalic from -within' a fortnight after biilh; the circumference of his skull measured at the period ot his death thirty-two inches and a quarter. The accumulation of serum frequently commences dunng the last months of foetal life; it may become a circumstance for the consideration of the accoucheur during parturition, not so much from the increased size of the head presenting an obstacle, because Eig. 60. A hydrocephalic skull from a girl aged eleven years; the enlargement of the skull is effected by its elongation, and by the depression and hollowing of its base. An increase of width appears to have been prevented by the premature and complete closure of the Slsute The coronal suture, and that between the frontal bone and the parietal aauLthe sphmoid, are wide open. The superior wails, of the wards. The bones generally are thin and light. St. Bartholomew s Almeum, -no series e, 2. there is even a greater compressibility than usual, but from the head being so soft as not to offer a sufficient fulcrum for the labour pains to act upon ; or, in case of operative interference, for the instruments to obtain a sufficient purchase The child may, however, he born apparently without a blemish, though it does not thrive well, and a few weeks after birth, or at least within the first three years of life, the head appears to increase unduly m size, and the ossification of the fontanellcs is retarded. Dr. V\ est states,* that out of fifty cases symptoms of hydrocephaius were observed in forty-six before they were six months old, and in twelve of these the malady was congenital and that m nineteen more it came on before the completion of the third month. The accumulation of fluid may amount to as much as ten pounds. The increase in the quantity is greatest dunng ; the 1 and diminishes or even remains stationary if'tho child the circumference of the head corresponds to these relations, thus » “ On the Diseases of Infancy,” p. St. ISIS.247 HYDROCEPHALUS. it is not uncommon to find the circumference to attain as much as twenty-six inches and more, during the first three months, and to vary but little subsequently. The immediate pathological effect of this secretion is to compress the parts within the skull, and to distend and prevent the due ossification of the cranium; the frontal bone is made to protrude, and the parietal hones, from their yielding character, bulge out considerably on each side, while the intervening soft parts present fluctuation. Ossification takes place, though irregularly, and at a much later period, and we have already seen that a succe- daneous deposit of bone is occasionally effected in the dura mater. The sutures of the cranial bones are not formed as in the healthy skull, but are less serrated, and therefore more really to yield to pressure from within, which they occasionally do after they have closed, in the event of a sudden increase of the fluid. The ossifi- cation does not proceed Avith the normal regularity, but numerous centres form, and thus we meet Avith more or less ossa triquetra in the line of the sutures. In an almost similar ratio we shall find the brain altered in its relations. If the accumulation has been confined to the ventricular cavities, the entire brain will be dis- tended, and its tissue is generally found softened and pultaceous, from the fluid having infiltrated the cerebral tissues. The dis- tension may be so excessive as to reduce the hemispheres to the thickness of a sheet of paper; but more commonly the parietes give way, and allow the fluids of the two sides to combine; and the pressure may then, as in the case of Cardinal, separate the hemispheres and unfold them, “ like the leaves of a book.” It was formerly usual to speak of two forms of hydrocephalus, external and internal, the former commencing in the arachnoid outside the hemispheres, the latter Avithin the ventricles. But there is now no doubt that the disease always originates internally, and that external hydrocephalus is merely a consequence of the ventricular fluid making its way out by rupture of the cerebral substance. Hydrocephalic Fluid.—The fluid of hydrocephalus is of a limpid and transparent character, or more or less yellowish or opaque; of a specific gravity rather lower than that of the serum of the blood, and containing, therefore, a smaller amount of solid constituents. When there is any opacity, this is found to be due to granular and nucleolar matter, mingled with epithelial debris. The fluid, when tested by heat and nitric acid, presents the characters of a solution of albumen, and is found to contain chloride of sodium, soda, and traces of salts of lime and potash; and also, according to Dr. Bostock’s investigation, urea. The results of his analysis of the hydrocephalic fluid of Cardinal are embodied in the followin'* table8HYDROCEPHALUS. 2-18 * <• Lcotures on Rost and Pain,” p. 34, Figs. 6 and 7. London, 1S63. Sp. gravity 1011'38 Water Albumen Chloride of sodium Soda Urea and osmazome Sulphuric acid, lime, potash 982(3 6 0 7-0 1-4 30 a trace. 1000 0 This composition differs from that of normal cerebro-spinal fl u. <1 in containing a larger proportion of solid constituents, viz. 1'8 per cent, instead of about 1'2 per cent., which is nonnal; in contam- ing more albumen; and in containing.urea, which has, however, been found in the cerebro-spinal fluid in several different diseases, especially in disease of the kidneys. The following analysis ot normal cerebro-spinal fluid is by Hoppe :— "Water ••• Albumen Salts and extractive matters. 987-49 1-62 1052 999-63 Causes of Hydrocephalus.—It is probable that great accumulation of fluid in the cerebral ventricles may arise from several different causes. In that form which is quite congenital, it would seem, a priori highly probable that original malformation should be the cause; and such a condition seems to have been discovered by Mr. Hilton, who has most ably demonstrated it m his lectures. ihe whole chapter should he read by all who wish to underhand the functions and relations of the cerebro-spinal Huid. He there records the fact that in several brains of children dying from hy- drocephalus he found the opening which naturally exists below the cerebellum, and between that organ and the medulla oblongata, forming a communication between the fourth ventricle and t e spinal canal, completely stopped up; so that fluid contained in the ventricles must be entirely shut m. This condition was found not only in children, but in one case m an adult, though in Mr. Hilton’s opinion as a congenital defect. MTMe these facts due weight, it must be pointed out that we are yet far from understanding either how the fluid ,ls Poured1 “h? the cerebral cavities or how it is removed; and that we do not positively know that the spinal canal has any better means of getting rid of an excess of fluid than the cerebral ventricles have. In cases which are not congenital, but where the ^echon comes on during infancy, there seem to be several influences which must at least bo called predisposing causes Amragtheso are rickets, which, by retarding the ossification oftheskifidunm ishes its power of resistance; syphilis, scrofulous cachexia, andHYDROCEPHALUS. 249 probably also actual tubercle, though cases arising from the latter cause will generally be classed under the head of acute hydro- cephalus. Another cause appears to be the chronic inflammation of the ventricles already described. We have spoken of hydrocephalus throughout as of a disease of childhood, and it is to early life that it mainly belongs. Several cases are, however, on record of the affection having supervened in the adult when there was no trace of previous cerebral disease. If it be found that the diathesis upon which the disease is engrafted belongs equally to infancy and manhood, we shall easily be able to explain why the more prominent symptom of dropsical accumula- tion does not present itself frequently in the adult. The firm con- nection of the cranial bones, and the compression which they consequently exert, offer a mechanical impediment to the effusion which can only take place at the expense of some other contents of the skull. The very congestion of the veins, which for instance exists in cases of uraemia, would militate against it. Senile Hydrocephalus.—Several instances of an accumulation of serum in the cavity of the arachnoid, or in the ventricles, and not offering any marked traces of active hypersemia or inflammation occurring in advanced life, may be found in the works of Professor Golis, Dr. Baillie, and Dr. Watson. They have received the name of senile hydrocephalus, and such are the cases to which the term of serous apoplexy if retained ought to be restricted. The fact of Dean Swift having died ol this affection, may serve to fix the sub- ject in the memory. The immediate cause to which this may be most justly attributed is an atrophic condition of the brain, which gives rise to a vacuum, and hence to a discharge from the vessels, of that part of the blood which most readily transudes the coats; the effused serum is peculiarly clear, and its quantity varies accord- imi ex^en^ °^. cerebral atrophy, from two to six ounces, v! uQ exam^no into the morbid anatomy of the brain, we shall discuss the origin and causes of atrophy; we have here only to do with one of its products; but it is apparent that in tne present instance, as well as in the hydrocephalus of infants, the effusion is a symptom of a deeper-seated malady, and not truly an idiopathic affection. In senile, as well as infantile hydro- cephalus, the soft commissures, the septum, fornix, and adjoin- ing parts, are commonly found softened; but it is not always easy to form a positive opinion whether this is a primary or second- ary condition. It may be well also to mention that a sudden effusion of fluid either on tho surface or within the ventricles of the brain the serous apoplexy of some writers, has never been definitely proved to take place, and that the cases in which death is attributed to this cause are for the most part casos of tho senile hydrocophalus above described m which sudden death occurs from some other causes such as disease of the kidnoys or heart. ’CHOROID PLEXUS. 230 Encephalocele.—Before dismissing this subject we have to advert to a form of congenital hydrocephalus which has received the name of hernia cerebri, or encephalocele, in which, owing to a deficiency in the cranial walls, a portion of the brain and its membranes are protruded. It is analogous to the spma brnda. CHOROID PLEXUS. The venous rete mirabile of man, known by the name of the choroid plexus, appears in a measure to possess a vitahty mdepend- ent of the membrane, the pia mater, of which it. is an appendix. It is impossible to doubt that it plays a most important part m equalizing and balancing the circulation within the eramum, within the limits of health, and that equally its peculiar relation to the cavity in which it is suspended must give rise to important- variation Jin disease ; the physical laws of exosmosis and endosmo- II may, without any stretch of hypothesis, be supposed to operate with peculiar vigour, and it is not unreasonable to assume m toe r-Vmrnirl nlexus a powerful agent of secretion and absorption, lhe amount of blood Pin the plexus found after death varies much—at one time it is full and the vessels stand out in relicf, iith is collapsed and contains scarcely enough blood to colour it. There is no necessary relation between-the amount of vascularity or exu- rln Hon and tlie congestion or inflammation of tlie pia mater , thus we maV find the surface of the brain covered with a highly vascular pia mater while the choroid plexuses present an exsanguine appearance; acircumstance which rather confirms our view of thal“c0S;pMSde8.-The greater density of the coats of the vessels in the choroid than in other parts, may account for the rarity of their being the source of hemorrhage; mduiated y~Uo bodies are however? occasionally found in them which are referable to former ’effusion The morbid appearances most commonly found bn? Ed b?SLS*‘nSXrs, md oconaonilly appear to be a normal °tw corpora amylacea, but the term reagents Virchow calls them 1 - Tnn„s js more ap- concentric corpuscles, suggested by Dr. H. Jones, is more P PXid» thoso bodies (ssbicb or. known % giving or sometimes almost blue colour with iodine) other boOies tCHOROID PLEXUS. 251 or less concentric structure are met with—the psammomata of Virchow. They represent merely an exaggeration of the “brain sancT’ met with in eyery choroid plexus. They are especially Fig. 61. represents a choroid plexus with several small tumours c supposed at first to have been tubercular : they proved to consist of aeare- gatums of concentric corpuscles, cholesterine, and pm-e oilunited b “areolar tSue the concentric corpuscles which are shown below the plexus are magnified 100 diarn. ’ common on the fringe which extends from the choroid plexuses ot the fourth ventricle between the outer surface of the cerebellum and the upper surface of the medulla oblongata, the so-called o i'll «s. he™e structures have no pathological importance. Mineral aculs remove the lime, with effervescence, leaving rings ot animal matter. ° Cysts and Epithelial Changes.—Cysts of the choroid plexus are ™rK°i f?eiu0nt -I J?entlon1ed by authors on account of their being 81 ble to the naked eye ; they are minute, transparent vesicles, vary- m ' m 8jZe from a poppy seed to a small pea ; and we generally meet with them in brains m which we also find evidence of inflammation a milfevH ln,'Iibran° 01 th(l 7entricles- They sometimes contain Tlmv V? ’ aDd may prC?ent lncrustations of a sabulous character evbLn '°n;oneOUS 7 Il?arded as hydatids, hut there is no would b&■ongmgto this class of parasitic formations ; they would rather seem to arise from multiplication of cells wh,Vh forInerg° a <.COll"ld ^generation and ultimately Hquefy sols to the iAn hyPertr°Pby of the epithelium,VhiJh coveJs horoideal vessels, is vory commonly observed in advancedCHOROID PLEXUS. 252 a»-e—though we have not been able, as yet, to trace any definite relation between this condition and certain forms ol disease. Fia. 62. Portion of a choroid plexus, exhibiting a fatty degeneration of a female aged forty-five, who for fourteen days previous to'her death was suojKt 10 convulsions and various cerebral symptoms. No ^ there was a small brain, but considerable deposit of oil in the choroid plexuses , m one mere was a naan ^Th/tp of the plexus dotted with oil, 120 dram.; », the epithelium, containing oil drops, magnified 360 diam. We also find small fatty tumours on the plexus, as well u.a micro- scopic deposit of fat in the shape of minute oil g^^s, dotting the surface of the vessels, but for the most part enclosed in the epithelium.CHAPTER X. THE BRAIN.—GENERAL OBSERVATIONS. The question that meets us at the threshold of an inquiry into the pathological conditions of the brain, is whether the amount of blood contained within the cramum in the adult, can vary. There is no difficulty in determining the question in the child, for there, as long as the fontanelles are unclosed by bone, the cerebral circu- S th° same laws a8 rule the general the LtUt When the 8ku1118 P°mpletely formed, the pressure of the atmosphere is m a measure withdrawn from the contents, and the variation in the amount of blood contained in the cerebral vesseis is very much lessened. Still, in applying the law of cXmfoTbloPrrU1V f13 8\lbj(iCt’ we must remember that the barometerblood reaching from the heart to the brain is not like the th v fhi ’ ! gle Wlth a vacuum at the closed end, but S' irhb,T,reSSe ninay be ““Pared to a curved tube both ends of winch are equally under the control of this law. If it were not so influence011 C°uld,,not- indePendent of the heart's beat, exert any ventnck* PT ce.r0bral circulation. The presence of the 3ue S® ’ i °f T'°Slt-Y m tbe cavities and subarachnoid fluid of vi inn T d ?l\na Cana-'18 a furtller indication that there is a pro- thi -l° meet thw speeds of variation—for it is in obedience to fimdl ™ I/ atmosPherlc Pressure, that we may assume these ds mutually to assist one another, and as the walls of the ramurn cannot collapse, to keep up the balance of the circulation by vicarious action. We have already seen that Natureshowsher ie°ct0VheCUffm -eDlle hydr°?Gp^aluS’ where-if explanation\e tomct) the effusion is mainly due to the atrophy of the brain Whdewe admit, therefore, that the constriction placed upon'the vessels 0f the brain and the peculiar character ofPtho cranS c^n! tents, prevent as great a variation m the amount of the fluid con tents as takes place m the thoracic or abdominal viscera wo twi assured that a variation does take place, and sufficient to’aTe™ 1 anUonol °f thil .phen0I,nena of nutrition and disease. It is impo/t sflfi place tbis question on a proper basis, as it is one I h ,uegeet3 iMf t0 the Vithout . L&S;254 THE BRAIN.—GENERAL OBSERVATIONS. explanation, we sliall be constantly at a loss to find the proper terms for morbid conditions, and they would themselves appear to contradict our theories. We cannot enter further into tlu- ques- tion, but we hope that the suggestions just thrown out may serve to reconcile some conflicting views on the subject; the positne denial of various physiologists, of any variation in the quantity of blood in the brain, apparently supported by such experiments as those of Dr. Kellie, has served not a little to confuse the stu- dent. Dr. Burrows* investigated this question fully, and from experiments and physiological considerations, arrived at the con- clusion which seems unavoidable to the practitioner of medicine, that the Quantity of the blood within the cranium is extremely variable at different times, and under different circumstances. AK inquirers are agreed that the relative amount of blood in the different sets of vessels, in the veins, and arteries, varies consider - ably • and on this point Dr. Kelhe’s experiments appear to afloid conclusive evidence; though the examination of a few bodies would mifficS to show tllG S51ID.6 i • n There can be no doubt that the most important influence moch- fving the amount of blood in the brain is the fulness of the ventricles and other cavities of the subarachnoid spaces ami ofl the lvmnhatic “spaces” or sheaths surrounding the cerebral blood- vessel all of which spaces contain a watery fluid identical with 7i ’ i cninnl fluid and all communicate with one another. with regal'd to the «P««s stroller hr heroic °°UObmMral Lmm.-W e frequently mats post-mortem hr- uoscure wflerp all the symptoms indicated that deatha proceeded from cerebral lesion, and where, neverthe- dcath proceeae discover any disorganization such as less, we are unable to Jscover^ lany^ ^ the case. would appear t J - in some 0f the cranial conteniS the vertebral arteries have sufficiently after the carotids had bee 1 n the functions of demonstrated the mfluen • 1vnl.;aKlv produced an instant arrest the brain. The compression and when the of respiration, c°nviKaons, d ^ ,innnal gradually recovered. tte h"”“" t •< Guy’s Hospital Repot ts," vol. 1. P-165. 1836.255 CONGESTION. subject, to the illustration of which disease they are frequently applied. We have yet to determine the ratio in which mere press ■ ure influences the cerebral functions, as compared with the fre- quency m which disturbance is excited, and a fatal issue produced by a poisoned condition of the blood, as in ureemia resulting from granular degeneration of the kidneys. It is, however, sufficiently evident that deficient supply of blood to the brain or anaemia mav be a cause of disordered function, and we are acquainted with two conditions, one temporary the other lasting, by which amentia of the brain acute and chronic, may be produced. Spasmodic con- traction of the muscles of the small arteries would cause momentary antenna, and has been assigned as the cause of epilepsy and similar functional derangements; while the thickening of the walls of arteries and diminution of their calibre, in consequence of athe- loma, will in the brain as in other parts, cause the supply of blood to be chronically deficient. The former of these conditions will of : course leave no .signs visible after death, and the latter scarcely ■ any that are unmistakeable. J CONGESTION. aJVllen the congestion of the brain is considerable, the entire 01 an may present an increase of volume and turgidity. On slicing it the grey matter may exhibit a deeper tinge than usual but its natura1 hue prevents the alteration of colour from beiim very ner- (.epable. The white matter shows an increase of the red dots indicating the blood-vessels, and mav, as it does particularly in mu tant TUme a Snnel'al pinky tiut from the sami cause. This must not, however, be confounded with the colour imparted to it blond1' dl7id*s the blood-vessels, and acSglo Jhe ' fa« L r l contained in them, smears it over the brain sur- acc, bj carefully wiping or scraping it we shall be enabled to ' vervforcfbK whlch,f use the colour is due. Scipion Pinel* dwells of Vl, b “ llPnU tho occurrence of congestion of the grey matter of the brain as the main pathological feature accompanying mania livelv red o8 thie the C01’tical tissue as pres^nTg a Xll bZ t’ -th° ^ rlte .,Ttter bein- leps altered in this 2 ’ b 1S° offering a hvid hue, with occasional blackish patches, or more or less extended ecchymos^s. Cono-esfinn «T neninges is more frequently found independently of ^comrestion of )iam than the converse; but we must look for tho h-ti+a ' especially in cases in which death has taken place m conta^T of poisoning from opium, in epilepsy and apopexvVTS V ® hooping-cough, in fever accompanied by command in hvr eT i'S’ 1 of the heart and granular kidney. * ’ m hypertrophy Turguhty of the blood-vessels in the membranes and brain has Iraitt de Pathologic Cerchrale,” p. 193. pal.iS) lg44256 HAEMORRHAGE. been observed in tbe majority of lunatics, independent of other lesions ; thus Dr. Webster, in analyzing the records of Bethlehem Hospital, finds this the case in eighty-nine out of one hundred and eight. Local congestions are occasionally met with limited to indi- vidual portions of the encephalon. . i - There can be no doubt that an ancemic condition of the bram, as well as a cachectic state of the ^lood circulating in it may in- duce, in a similar manner, disease and a fatal issue without ctien any perceptible lesions. In these cases the fibrous tissue of the brain presents a more deadly white and fewer red spots than m the normal condition, but we possess no means as yet ofWet r mining these relations by actual measurement.; and m many in- stance! where no organic change has taken place, the tonicity the arteries may, in articulo mortis, restore the balance of the circulation in such a manner as really to remove all post-mortem Simple congestion or an early stage of inflammation, appears sometimes to be fatal even when no inflammatory products are formed- and instances of sudden death have been attabuted to this cause under the name of apoplexia vascularis. Bokitansky la inclined to think these may be a ratio efficiens mortis, both as the final blow in many acute and chronic diseases, and also quite inde- pendently A remarkable case of fatal cerebral congestion runnm a very rapid course without any other obvious cause of teth i, recorded by Dr. Church in the fifth volume of St. Bartholomews Hospital Reports. (Case viii.) hemorrhage. Congestion is a transition state to numerous ce^bmnesi^ which leave sufficiently perceptible^ post-mortem effecti. Jh ^ of these that we shall consider is haemorrhage, the most trequeni mmmSsis. clearly exhibits the progressive ratio of apoplexy wit age.HAEMORRHAGE. 257 Observers. 20 to 30 years 30 to 40. 40 to 50. 50 to 60. 60 to 70. 70 to 80. Above SO. •a ■+-* H Dr. Abercrombie 3 4 6 7 7 1 o 28 Dr. Bright ... 4 4 8 4 5 1 0 25 Dr. Audral 3 3 4 6 5 1 0 26 Dr. Rochoux 2 8 7 10 23 12 1 63 Dr. Hope 2 2 9 6 7 11 2 39 Dr. Burrows 2 9 6 8 7 1 i 34 Total in periods of 10 years 16 30 40 41 54 3) 4 215 This corresponds in the main with the results obtained from the Registrar-General s reports. To explain the apparent diminution after the age of seventy, we must remember that the total number of living is very much reduced, and that hence the relative number of apoplectic cases is probably even larger than at an earlier a°-e. Cases of apoplexy, even in children, are not unknown, and appear to depend upon disease of the vessels, which sometimes present the appearance represented in Pig. 65.* . The amount of haemorrhage varies from a spot of the size of a pm s head to an accumulation of many ounces ; the former, which may be termed capillary haemorrhage, is frequently observed in connection with effusions of a more extensive character, but may often be assumed to have occurred during life, where trifling apo- plectic symptoms have rapidly passed off under appropriate°treat- ment It is not generally easy to trace tbe vessels from which the blood has been effused, and there is also much obscurity as to the actual nature of the morbid action which induces the haemorrhage. All parts of the encephalon may present apoplectic effusions, but the parts most frequently affected are the anterior lobes, and espe- cially the vicinity of the corpora striata. As a rule the grey structures, including the convolutions of the brain, exhibit the greatest proclivity to the affection, which is in consonance with the known vascularity of these tissues. The structures most removed from the grey matter, as the corpus callosum and the tomix, are least liable to it. Apoplectic effusion is not veiy fre- quent in the cerebellum, but it is found to be more rapidly and invariably fatal when it occurs here than elsewhere. Andral’s extensive sphere of observation has only presented him with six eases of hemorrhage into the cerebellum, and in three of these it Was associated with haemorrhage into tho cerebrum. It is still * “ Trans. Path Soc.," 1869, vol. xx. pp. 1 and 2, uml Pig. 1. S258 HAEMORRHAGE. more rare, according to Rokitansky, in the pons "S aroiii and medulla oblongata.* Fig. 63. Apoplectic effusion upon the left side of the pons Yarolii. Causes of Cerebral Hcemorrhage.—ln the causation of apoplectic effusion three elements come into consideration : the condition Fig. 64. Hemorrhage into the coma, and sixty-five. He was brought into St. Marys i ^,1^. d cavity in the hemisphere, died two hours after admission. There wa ¥ - ounCes of black fluid blood communicating with the ventricle, from wh f • ht ide weremucli softened, escaped. The corpus striatum and thalamus opticus oi ngut Tlierc was no apparent disease of the arteries. * See cases reported by Church : “ Barth. Hosp. Reports," vol. v. Bnstowe: " Trans Tath. Soc.,” 18,7, vol. xviil. p. 18.259 HiEMORKHAGE. the blood, the vascular tension or blood pressure, and the state of the coats of the vessels, and that of the tissues surrounding them. The first, though doubtless important, as necessarily influencing most materially the two latter, we do not as yet possess sufficient data to speak of otherwise than hypothetically. Increase in the tension of blood within the vessels cannot but be a powerful pre- disposing cause of their rupture ; but that it will not of itself cause hemorrhage, unless the vessels be diseased, is shown by the fact that apoplectic effusion is not met with in healthy individuals who have died from strangulation, when the blood pressure within the skull must be very greatly increased. On the other hand, apoplexy is most commonly associated with two morbid conditions, which, when occurring together, are distinct evidence of increased arterial ~*n**on viz., granular disease of the kidneys, and hypertrophy of the heart (especially the left ventricle). That there is increased arte- rial tension in this condition of the body may be shown deduc- Fig. 65. tively from the laws of fluid pressure, and is also demon- strated by the sphygmograph; it is of course obvious that ves- sels might be strong enough to bear a normal pressure, but give way under one abnormally great. Condition of the Vessels. — A morbid condition of the coats of the vessels is, however, so much the most powerful factor in the causation of apoplexy, that some pathologists have spoken of it unconditionally as the cause. The principal morbid appear- ances seen in the vessels in cases of apoplexy are as follows (1) Chronic arteritis, giving rise to ngidity and brittleness of the walls, from atheromatous or cal- careous deposits; (2) as a conse- quence of this condition aneu- nsmal dilatations of the smaller arteries, which may be either a kind of dissecting aneurism SSS!6 Tidfe andthe. outer coat (lymphatic sheath i some wnters), or else true aneurisms composed of all the coats ■ (l-rple ,fat,ty doS'3neration of the capillaries and small vessels’ of fhVt alWayS, associated with atheromatous or other changes wall of1T>1gerVe8nelS; a Peculiar uuclear proliferation in fho S4. 659).18 " • s““ “ Peri-arte-itis. Nuclear proliferation in the outer coat or lymphatic sheath of a cerebral artery from a child. This is the condition believed to pre- dispose to cerebral haemorrhage; which however, had not occurred in this case. ’ (From an oHginal preparation.)260 HAEMORRHAGE. Fio. 66. Tlie changes included in the term chronic arteritis will be spoken of under the general head of Diseases of the Arteries, hut the occur- rence of aneurisms of the cerebral arteries requires some considera- Intracranial Aneurisms.—Aneurisms of the same kind as those occurring in other organs may of course occur in the cerebral arte- ries, and have been seen, both at various points on the circle of Willis, and on branches within the brain.* They are generally associated with disease of the vessel, and hardly ever occur in voung persons. When associated with youth and healthy vessels, their formation is not easy to explain, but has been thought to be in some cases due to embolism.t .. Another kind of aneurism, characteristic of, though not peculiar to, the cerebral vessels, is so important as to deserve special men- tl0 Miliary Aneurisms of Cerebral Arteries.—MM.. .Charcot and Bouchard have lately published observations from which they draw the conclusion that the most important and only essential condition of cerebral hemorrhage is the presence of minute or miliary aneurisms on the cerebral vessels. They attribute the formation of these aneurisms and of more general dilatations which accompany them, not to what is ordinarily called atheroma, or to fatty degeneration, but a peculiar affection of the outer coot of the artery, and of its lymphatic sheath; com- mencing with a great multiplication of the nuclei which these structures naturally contain, and leading to a fibrous metamorphosis, sometimes ac- companied by thickening of these parts. The middle coat loses its muscular fibres, which undergo atrophy, and it is sometimes thickened. The inner coat shows simply multiplication ot nuclei. The net result of these changes is, that where there is no marked thickening of the walls, they become weaker, and permit ol aneurismal dilatation. which may be Miliary cerebral aneurism and surrounding blood clot. A, The aneurism; B, remnants of the ruptured perivascular sheath; o, extravasatedblood. (After Charcot and Bouchard.) The early or nuclear staged this morbid process - Tta irUm, livrf to r«3 , • Cases mav befound in « Trans. Path. 8oc„" 1856, vol. vii. PP-122.125 (and Fig. 5), *' 1S^&U?“St: Bartholomew's Hospital Reports," 1S70.HAEMORRHAGE. 201 from this condition are just risible to the naked eye, varying in size from to Agfnch, and are attached to vessels not more than j-Ljinch in diameter. They are found in all parts of the brain, But most frequently in the optic thalami and corpora striata, next in the convolutions, and least frequently in the pons Varolii. The number is extremely variable; sometimes only two or three could be discovered, sometimes hundreds. In cases of recent hfemorrkage they look much larger, owing to their being sur- rounded by a clot which is enclosed within the perivascular sheath ; on opening this, the aneurism is iound ruptured. The authors ob- served these aneurisms in eveiy one of eighty-four cases of cerebral hiemorrhage (either recent or occurring some time before death), while no one of the other morbid conditions sometimes associated with apoplexy was observed in more than a certain proportion of the cases.* Recovery from Apoplexy.—The apoplectic effusion is not neces- sarily fatal in proportion to the amount of blood discharged from the vessels ; but the rapidity of the issue appears to bear a relation to the vicinity of the haemorrhage to the medulla oblongata. The effusion of blood into the ventricles is also marked by being very rapidly fatal. Much probably also depends upon the amount of laceration of the cerebral tissue accompanying the haemorrhage, inasmuch as the curability of apoplectic effusion seems to be in the ratio of the interstitial character of the discharge. Thus Messrs. Foville and Ollivier have pointed out, both with regard to the encephalon and the spinal cord, that the cure of paralysis resulting from rupture of the nerve-tissue is never complete, but that where the patient is restored to perfect health, the haemorrhage has mostly separated and compressed the cerebral or spinal fibres. Complete restoration of nervous power is often rendered impossible by the secondary degeneration of the white fibres of the spinal cord which results from continued disease. Changes in the Effused Jllood.--The processes that occur in the blood itself, after it has been effused within the brain, are—the formation of a coagulum. the gradual absorption of the fluid parts of the blood, the formation of an organized membrane around the clot, and the continued absorption of the latter. The rapidity with which these changes occur differs considerably, and depends greatly upon the healthy condition of the surrounding parts. Dr. Macintyref has recorded a case of apoplexy, in which thirteen days after the seizure, the cyst was found fully formed, organ- ized, and nearly empty. On the other hand, Moulin + mentions one of seventeen years’ duration, in which a cyst was found con- Chftreotet Bouchard: “Archives de Physiologic,” 1868, tomei.pp.no 648 726 Pianr-hes lii.-v. The same appearances were observed by Ilesehl (“ Wiener Medi-,’ Wochenschnft,” 1866, Sept. 6 and 9) but not connected with hmnmrrl.nw A rfnohi Was previously observed by Dr. Gull 1" Guy’s Hospital Reports,” 1839 ser hi 'ol ,v-_. 8eealso Bastian : “Trans. Path. Soc.,” 1867, vol. xviii. p. 76. > ser. m. c*»a- u i/u, Lin.il . x ail. , I UUI. uUE.f I 1 “‘‘port of Pathol. Society," 1817. p. 11. * “ Train? de l’Apoplexie, ou Hemorrhagic GY' CerC'brale,” &c. Paris, 1819.H/ES101UUIAGE. 262 tainirig four ounces of sanguineous fluid. When the effusion occurs in the cavity of the arachnoid, we have seen that cysts aho form, hut we do not meet with them in the cavity of the ventricles, though there is reason to suppose that the blood may be absorbed from their surface also. According to the degree of absorption, the clot changes its consistency and colour. The clot first assumes a deeper colour, and becomes of a chocolate hue, and from absorp- tion of the serum is rendered hard; the colouring matter is more and more absorbed, a light-coloured fibrinous mass is then seen much contracted from the original dimensions of the clot, and finally this too may disappear, leaving no remains of the ha-uior- rhagic effusion but the contracted empty cyst, the walls of which are frequently connected by fibrous threads. The cyst itself, m its turn, shrinks up, and finally nothing may remain but a cicatnx. The hmmatoid crystals first discovered by Sir Everard Home, and more recently described by Virchow, are occasionally found in apoplectic clots, together with orange-coloured granular matter. Virchow* states that the earliest period at which he has discovered them, was seventeen days after the injury ; their not occurnng in recent effusions has been urged as a positive proof regarding t e age of a clot. Changes produced in the Nervous Tissue.—It is manifest that no effusion can take place into the cerebral tissue without a certain amount of disruption of the nerve matter, portions of which may be generally traced within the fresh clot; the greater the previous cerebral softening the more we shall find the brain comminuted. The danger to life, as the recorded cases teach us, is m pro- portion to the cerebral disorganization, for the tax made upon the powers of the constitution to repair the injury done, is neces- sarily greater, the more inflammatory reaction is set up; for though the clot possesses in itself a tendency to form a cyst without inflammation, and thus aids in the process of reparation, this cannot suffice to repair the injury done to the cerebral tissue. After the absorption has come to a standstill the cyst or the cicatrix may be borne for years without exciting any new symp- toms, and thus, if the individual has suffered from a repetition of apoplectic attacks, we shall find one or more such residuary appearances in a state indicative of the period fiom y;hieh ''i? date. As we occasionally meet with a recent apoplectic effusion that has been effected near the surface of fte brain,t ^ fluctuation, we find, after the absorption of the flmd, a slight depression in the superincumbent nerve tissue, or a supplementary effusion of serum into the ventricles. * See an article on “ Blood Crystals,” by Dr. Sieveking, in the “ Britnh and Foreign Medico-Chirurgical Review,” Oct. 1853.2(53 AN7EMIC CONDITIONS OP THE BRAIN. The converse of the condition which we have just been con- sidering, ancemia, is undoubtedly one of considerable importance, and one that may be assumed to be the cause of numerous morbid conditions; but we have still greater difficulty in determining its existence than that of congestion of the brain. Where it exists the brain presents a generally pallid appearance, and especially the white matter is remarkably deficient in red spots, and more dead-white than normally. It is an important element in the diseases termed white softening and oedema of the brain, which, therefore, especially as in their turn they may give rise to apoplectic effusion, may appropriately be treated of in this place. From what has been said before, it will be at once seen that ancemia of the brain must be accompanied by fulness of the serous and lymphatic channels ; that is, by a great abundance of fluid both within the cerebral cavities and generally infiltrated through the brain substance round the vessels; hence the con- dition will be generally one of cedema. (Edema of the brain is a common condition of the organ met with in ataxic conditions, such as typhus, or puerperal disease, in exanthemata, heart disease, and anasarca. It is common in insanity. Pinel * has described it as the pathological condition characteristic of stupor, or acute dementia. On cutting into a brain thus affected the tissue is found pallid, and the water •drips from it, showing a complete cedematous imbibition, The infiltra- tion causes an enlargement of the brain, and consequent flattening of the convolutions, and the pure form of simple oedema is thus distinguished from those in which it is combined with atrophy. The cerebral substance may present various degrees of diminished consistency, till a condition is reached which has been described as white softening. White Softening.—This is a condition often described, but, it must be confessed, hardly capable of being defined in a perfectly accurate manner, except as an extreme form of cedema. In estimating the degree of this change, it is important to bear in mind the physiological variations in the density of the brain, according to the age of the individual.! It is naturally very soft in infancy, and progressively becomes firmer with the advance of years; and, in old age, as we find a tendency to rigidity of the soft tissues, and to ossification of the cartilages, we discover the brain to present the physiological extreme of density and tough- ness. The diminished density and consistency or cohesion of a portion of, or the entire brain, constitutes the disease in ques- * “ TraitC de Pathologie Cdrfibrale,” p. 257. + See a paper by Dr. Sankey on the “ Specific Gravity of the Brain," and Foreign Jledico-Chirurgical Review,” Jan. 1853. in the “ BritishINFLAMMATION. 264 tion. Dr. Bastian states that the specific gravity of softened white matter usually falls to 1 032, hut when in its natural condition it is about 1-040.* It is common in children, complicated with hydrocephalus, or as a product of arrested or perverted nutrition, or exanthematic fevers; the affected portions ot the brain often being entirely diffluent. In adults it is found in connection with phthisis. White softening is chiefly met with in the parts most remote from the grey matter, as one would expect, if the etiology, as given above, is correct, because they are provided with fewer blood- vessels. Rcstan, who was the first to draw attention to cerebral softening, which has since been extensively studied by patholo- gists, admitted the presence of an inflammatory and a non- inflammatory form; but there is now a general agreement among pathologists to separate this condition from the changes produced by inflammation. Abercrombie and some other writers attribute the form of softening just described under the term of cerebral softening to inflammation ; an analysis of the cases given by Abercrombie himself, will, however, be found to support the view of the existence of white softening without the physical signs of inflammation. INFLAMMATION. Inflammation of the brain occurs in the various forms, and gives rise to the same products that we find in other organs, modified, of course, in their characters by the anatomical relations of the organ. We find it as an acute and as a chronic disease. Acute inflamma- tion of the brain is not frequently met with in the dead house, in the early stages, nor is idiopathic encephalitis a disease o£ common occurrence, and many of the cases recorded by older witters resolve themselves into cases of meningitis. It is not our province to inquire into the causes of the peculiarities of diseased action; but we may allude to the circumstance of the brain being so com- pletely withdrawn from physical influences acting immediately upon it, as one of the reasons why idiopathic inflammation should not set up in it, with the same frequency and violence that it exhibits in organs that are more exposed. It is brought on by exposure to the sun’s rays in hot summer days or m tropical climates, and may be so rapidly fatal as to produce death before the purulent stage has supervened. Other instances of idiopathic encephalitis are however met with in the early stage, in which no direct exciting cause is traceable. In a case of this kind we find a more or less circumscribed dusky redness in the substance of the brain; the spot generally occupies the upper part ol the * Bastian : “ Specific Gravity of the Brain." in the “ Journ. of Menial Science," Jan, 1866, and lieynolds’s “ System of Medicine, ’ vol. u. p.BED SOFTENING. 265 hemispheres, and, on section, drops of blood may ooze out from the divided surface; there is no necessary change in the consistency of the spot, though it is frequently somewhat softer than the healthy tissue ; as the disease advances the exudation of lymph and sup- puration ensue, and the colour and consistency of the affected part are modified in proportion. These products are much more frequently the result of chronic and of secondary, than of acute and primary encephalitis. So much so, in fact, that softening, which is the most common effect of inflammatory action, has been treated by many authors as an idiopathic disease. RED SOFTENING. The condition known as red softening has been a matter of con- • siderable dispute among pathologists, some regarding it as a form of inflammation, others as an infarction due to obstructed circula- t tion. The former view has been till lately that generally accepted. Fui. G". ■Vessels from the brain of a female aged forty, who died hemiplegic, in consequence of red softening of the right hemisphere. We find in this condition marked congestion, giving to the affected Part a reddish hue; and in the softened tissues the microscope show besides broken-down nerve matter, a large number of glomeruli, or granule-cells. The vessels are also often found formlv8Ud^U-R< f ih7vCOllf^°nB fa«y. granules, either uni- Sk 6y> or else in isolated masses. This ondition must be distinguished from fatty degeneration of the walls of the vessels. The absence of pus-cells would not be an absolute26G RED SOFTENING. proof that inflammation had not occurred; for they are not always present * in undeniable abscesses, where molecular granules and pyoid bodies may be the sole objects detected by the microscope. We are further borne out in this view by Dr. Bright, t who expressly states that we can hardly restrict the term abscess of the brain to those very rare cases in which well-iormed pus is found in the substance of the cerebral mass. We have already alluded to the presence of granule-cells, which are detected by the microscope in degenerative and inflammatory affections of the encephalon. They will here be found m large numbers, and will assist in establishing our post-mortem diagnosis, though, as has been said, not necessarily evidence of inflammation. The necessary disorganization of the cerebral tissue, which must ensue in each of these cases, causes the presence of broken-up nerve matter, which the microscopic specimens will be found to contain. When we have to do with red or apoplectic softening in which hemorrhage has occurred, we shall also detect blood corpuscles in a more or less altered state. A rough way o e er mine the presence of softening is, to allow a gentle stream o water to fall upon the suspected part; the softened parts will more or less readily give way and break up. Authors have distm- guished from 'this form of disease another which they calljVow softening, but it is now generally agreed that it tion of the condition produced by inflammation; the difference of colour being due to changes in the extravasated colouring matter ^W^reg^'rd to the locality of red softening, authors are not agreed as to the preponderance of its occmrence in t , white matter; while Gluge and Durand-Eardel are°fo>mon th^ it is more frequently met with m the former; Dr. Bennett s re to assert that the rdrite matter » tie seat of this morbid action. Drench physicians lookJP™ mg of the superficial laminse of the convoluteions ms pecuhatr to dementia, and state that it is characterized^ by porfann^; of tke matter adhering to the meninges v hen they aie remt T a horde has pointed out that this condition often coincides with softening of the corresponding portions of the centra gang a, wi lections of fatty molecules round the vessels aie w ? ■Z in cases h red softening, they »njin £ necessarily evidence ot mflammataoii. Thej .g Qut of generations of the nerve centres, v AfM Prevost and Cotard the question, and have been observed by MW iievost ana “iiSinmuifttion of the Nervous Centres,267 BED SOFTENING. in softening of the brain dependent on obstructions of the small arteries and capillaries artificially produced. Granule-cells or glomeruli may represent, there is no doubt, the final stage of fatty transformation of several different kinds of cells. In the brain the}' have been thought to proceed both from the ganglionic nerve- cells and from the cells of the neuroglia or connective-tissue matrix of the brain. When they occur in the white substance they must no doubt be altered cells of the neuroglia, since this tissue contains no other cells ; and even in the grey matter it seems pro- bable that they have the same origin. Since the occurrence of these bodies has, from the time when they were discovered by Gluge, been regarded the main argument for regarding red soften- ing as due to inflammation, many pathologists have of late years discarded the inflammatory hypothesis, and have been led to con- sider obstruction to the supply of blood as the chief determining cause of this condition. It has now been repeatedly proved by experiment that the obstruction of an arterial branch in any organ produces at first, engorgement of the capillaries in the part supplied by it, and often haemorrhage. Hence the red colour of parts from which the arterial supply is cut off is not necessarily a sign of inflammation. Similar results follow from obstruction of the veins. Among the causes obstructing circulation are embolism and thrombosis of arteries, embolism of capillaries, and thrombosis of veins and sinuses. Sudden blocking of arteries from embolism produces a rapid and peculiar kind of softening, which will be : specially described; but gradual obliteration of the arteries by • thrombosis is believed by many authorities to be a frequent cause ot red softening. The conditions favouring thrombosis are espe- cially atheromatous changes in the vessels, by which their calibre ■ is diminished and the inner surface roughened; weakness of the heart, which retards the rapidity of the circulation; and, it is sup- j posed, certain states of the blood favouring coagulation. Many ■ observations and experiments supporting these views have been 1 ™acf'0^a*-0 years, especially by French and German pathologists; of which an excellent summary is given by Dr. Bastian in the - second volume of Reynolds’s “ System of Medicine.”* This explanation is in some degree a return to the views of older writers. Thus, Dr. Abercrombie suggested that ramollissement of the cerebral substanco was analogous to gangrene occurring in 0 ot“’3r. Parts of the body; but, though obliteration of the smaller • arteries of the brain may give rise to this change, the name does not 3eem well chosen, and we are not justified in speaking of gangrene, which means putrefaction, in parts which, though seri- ously diseased, are by no moans withdrawn from the range of vital ‘ H,CesfS- . Au ™PorW physical symptom of gangrene is remark- ably absent in softening of the brain, viz., a foetid odour With regard to the cause of softening, as of cerebral disease; * Reynolds and Bastion: Article, “ Softening of the Brain,” pp. 434-477. .ABSCESS OF THE BRAIN. 268 generally, it must be mainly sought for in changes directly and primarily affecting the brain; but that peripheral affections may be followed by central disease is forcibly illustrated by the case published by Lallemand* of a soldier, who had been operated upon for aneurism of the right axillary artery. In applying the ligature, the nerve was enclosed, cerebral symptoms followed on the seventh day, and death ensued on the eighth : the post-mortem showed an abscess in the left posterior cerebral lobe. The case is also of interest, as affording proof of the uniformity of the law of crucial conduction. . ,. Softening Pf the brain is looked upon as an essentially tatal dis- ease. though there is no inherent reason why the process of resolu- tion and absorption should not be carried out within the brain as in other organs. It is probable that as our means of diagnosis become more perfect and more refined, our knowledge of this subject will also enlarge; at present we deal rather with the last stages ol the disease than with its incipient and more curable features. ABSCESS OF THE BRAIN. Suppuration occurs in three forms: we find it occupying the convolutions in the shape of a ragged ulcer, varying m size from a fourpenny-piece, or less, to that of half-a-crown, or the pus is infiltrated through a large extent of cerebral tissue, causing what Dr Bright terms the diffused abscess; or again, the pus becomes limited, as in other parts of the body, by a membranous expansion, and wo then have to deal with the encysted abscess. I he con- sistence and colour of the parts in which exudation and suppuration have been effected, vary according to the extent to which the tissues are involved; the softening may be scarcely sufficient to mark a difference between the healthy and the diseased portions, and 1 may reach such a degree that the latter are perfectly diffluent: the discoloration, in the same way, will be more or less or reddened, according to the amount of suppuration the injwtnon of the blood-vessels, and the accompanying exhalation ot blood, or its colouring matter. , . ... , The greater number of cysts containing pus, that we meet w , are the result of external injury, involving the bone, as rf Mature only cared to protect, the brain from contact with external ati sphere. It was already observed by Dr. Baillie, that abscess on the surface of the brain was almost constantly the effect of extei nal vio LnSnit that it was often independent of thisi cause.when foimied at a considerable deptli within the brain and that the far the more common form. The cyst itself presents in either^ various degrees of thickness and density; the former may amount to half a lino, and the latter increase to the consistent ol le. ‘ Rccherclies Anatomioo-patliologiqucs sur l’Enei'phalc,’ *c., ■( ol. i. 1*23.269 ABSCESS OP THE BRAIST. The cysts themselves have a laminated fibrous structure, and they are lined with a layer of the pyogenic membrane. True suppuration of the brain, not arising from injury or diseases of the skull, is mostly of pytemic origin; the cases in. which neither of these modes of origin can be assigned being very few. There are, however, cases on record in which no other evi- dence of pyaemia has been noticed. Next to direct injury, perhaps, caries of the bones of the skull is the most frequent cause of sup- puration in the brain, which may occur with or without meningitis or purulent thrombosis of the cerebral sinuses. Thus it has been observed as a consequence of disease of the internal ear. * Dr. Gull some years ago examined this subject very carefully, and came to the conclusion that all cases not dependent on injury 01 disease of the cranial bones, were ot pyaemic origin ; considering the unexplained case3 to be quite exceptional, or due to imperfect • observation. In a more recent article in Reynolds’s “ System of : Medicine,” an analysis of seventy-six cases is given by himself and Dr. Sutton. Out of this number we find that' 40 per cent. ‘ depended upon disease of the cranial bones or of the internal ear; 1 m 23 Per cent, there was either obvious injury to the skull, or else : some history ot violence; 13 per cent, were evidently, from the . occurrence of suppuration in several parts, cases of pysemia; in another 13 per cent, there were other diseases, sometimes accom- j panied by suppuration and softening; while in only 10 per cent. 1 was the origin of suppuration quite unexplained, t Pycemic or Metastatic Abscess of the Brain.-—Suppuration may ( occur m the brain, as in other parts, in cases of purulent infection ' or pj temia arising from whatever causes. Such abscesses are not, ‘ however, very common. They resemble pyaemic abscesses of other P®rts m tpe extreme rapidity with which suppuration takes place; MPact which when established by clinical observation, may be an important aid m diagnosis. It is probable that some cases of what appears to be idiopathic abscess of the brain may be due to this cause. For instance, in a case described by Dr. Cholmeley • t although no other evidence of pyaemia was established at'the autopsy, the patient is said to have suffered from inflammation of thei knee-joints, accompanied by swelling and redness, which raises a strong presumption of the existence of pyiemia. Bat the number r»t cases m which there has been unquestionable evidence of the existence of pyaemia is not large. Pysemic abscesses are said to begin with the formation of a hard solid red infarctus, which begins to break down in the centre and thus toms a focus of suppuration surrounded by highly vascular 1 s,'e ca*es in “Trans. Path. Soc.,” 1807, xviii. 7, hv Murchison nnO numerousesses referred to by Gull and Sutton in Reynolds’s “System of Mo^rine"”’ i r- J?p- 646 and Tu l- See alsl> Toynbee: “ Diseases of the Ear ” Medicine, « T., "u : “ tiny s Hospital Report-,” vol. viii. 3rd series. Gull and Knltm, • t,.*; t of the Brain,’ in Reynolds’s •«System of Medicine? voi d p ' Art,clc* ♦ HanH. Path. Soc., ’ vol xix. 22. 1270 IX DURATION. and hypersemic tissue. They are very often multiple, and thus in all these respects resemble pysemic abscesses in the lungs, but ditfrr from them in not specially affecting the superficial parts of the organ, but being rather found, according to Eokitanskj, in th. deep parts. SOFTENING OE THE BRAIN FROM EMBOLISM. APHASIA. This seems the proper place to refer to the changes produced in the brain by the sudden cutting off of a portion of its Mood-supply. This most commonly occurs, as pointed out by Ymcho^ and Kirk , through the blocking up of an arterial branch by a small mass ol fibrinor a fragment of vegetation detached from the valves of the heart. The fragments thus detached pass up the internal carot arterv and the branch most frequently blocked is the middle cere- bir Section of the carotid itedf usual J M.■ to pr£u» softening, the anastomosis through the circle of Y illi= bein sufficient. The softening will of course vary m extent, but is dually seen on both sides of the fissure of Sylvius, thoughchiefly front of it involving parts of the anterior and middle lobes Mid the convolutions of the island of Eeil, as well as the anterior portion of the corpus striatum. The chief consequence is pand^ds of the opposite side of the body, or hemiplegia and this m olten associated with loss of power of speech, a symptom on which we m^pSaa-LorS0odfS'the faculty of language, as distingrushM from mere inability to articulate through paralysis, has of late fes ss&s marginal) convolution of the anterior lobe. p^ fe l „ausiia, that a lesion of the corresponding portion of the cent ^ | or of the connecting fibres or of an a^acen^part^f frie cort^ viz., the convolutions of the island of Eeil, m. 1 1 and even in. very rare cases the Won of ,hc same part may produce identical lesults. INDURATION. The converse of ramollissement or in^rat?°^ p^S,’ but*like former, to be an occasional result of a ph -, - ]HYPERTROPHY OF THE BRAIN. 271 it we must in many instances attribute it to a non-inflammatorv change in the nutrient sphere. We find portions of the brain both at the surface and in the deeper seated parts presenting no material alteration heyond an increased density as compared with surround- mg parts. This is distinct from the hardened cicatrices resulting from the absorption of apoplectic effusions. A general hardening ' ot tbe ?ram accompanied by a livid earthy hue, and an increase of the entire volume of the organ is met with in chronic lead poison- ing ; the convolutions are found flattened, the ventricles are com- I pressed, the tissue is dry ; and a chemical analysis will detect the ] presence of sulphate of lead in the brain. Tanquerol des Planches 1 records two cases in which this was done. It is also found in cases of acute lead poisoning.! A similar state of induration and hypertrophy of the white substance is stated by Ferrus and Par- chappe and by Dr. Boyd to be found in epilepsy. Partial or localized induration seems to be the result of a slow 1 “^minatory or hyperplastic process affecting the connective-tissue .matrix or neuroglia ot the brain. This tissue, and especially the ' I .w! ?efRerebrH; a,rte”es’ ^del-go a hyperplastic change (as shown by the multiplication of nuclei), and thus compresses aand destroys the nervous elements. The process is analogous to fw W11! m «?pi!lalvCOr,I1’ and wil1 be further considered under that head. It affects the white substance of the brain ; viz., either the central portion of the cerebral hemispheres, the corpus cal- " f°rniXi ,fimbria- septum pellucidum, tractus opticus, evp?f neniCUlata’ C1?ra 9erebn> P°us, or medulla oblongata, and eventually causes contraction and deformity of the part h HYPERTROPHY OF THE BRAIN. Although in adult life when the skull is completely formed disease cannot cause any alterahon in the size of the brain, as it oes m other organs, very great variations due to original develop- ed tar° met with; and m early life disease may cause a remark- uble increase in the size and weight of the organ; though as ,J“f apP,ears bj be d'le to tbo excessive formation of non-nervous Se4’ation.USt n0t b° SP°ken °f &S hyPertropby without a certain Specie Hypertrophy of the Brain.-In a case of hvpertronhv on emoving the skull-cap, the brain seems to expand, as ifh/had •oeen prevrousiy confined in too narrow a space; the membranes tbe convolutions are flattened by bcirn- compressed Jgamst the bone, and the ventricles are found‘to contain veiy little >r uo fluid On making a horizontal section, the grev matter is * been altered, and the naked-eye view displays an 'increase in ’ ZfSSXZ!* i83.Maladie®de voi. ii. p. a*. paris, 183fl.272 hypertrophy of the brain. the amount of white matter; this, according to Rokitansky, is owim', not to an augmentation in the number of nerve tubes, or their dimensions, hut in the excessive development of the inter- vening and nucleated substance or neuroglia. , Hypertrophy appears to be due to some constitutional cachexia, and is met with chiefly in early childhood. As long as the fontanelles are not closed, it does not in itself involve danger, and even the intellect continues unimpaired; but as soon as the ionta- nelles have closed, the undue pressure gives nse to numerous cerebral symptoms, none of which however, are char^termbc of this disease. It belongs essentially to the family of lbadutlc affections; the frequent coincident distortion of the bones, the swelling of the lymphatic glands, and the general torpor of the system, suffice to establish its relationship. The bloo^fl^fS ^nd dryness of the tissues must assist us m deciding ; ina doubtful ca.e whether we have to deal with hypertrophy of this eharacter or with hypermmia, hydrocephalus, or oedema, conditions which also may cause the brain to appear too large for its case, and Pr0^(f a flattening of the convolutions. Nor would it be just to consider as diseased a brain, which, though larger than the average at the age o the individual, exhibits no morbid relations such as those described. We must ako be careful not to confound cases of tumefacbon of the brain from softening with hypertrophy ; thus we find m Andril’s “Clinique Medicale” the account of a post-mortem, in which owing to this cause, the left hemisphere was so much swollen Ts to puS over the mesial line to the right side. A similar speci- comatose. The thalamus is described as enlarged to«ie size_oi heffis eg-, of a lardaceous, dead white appearance on section, with S soSing of the adjacent parts « test™ very vascular of oj.iuiou that the abnormity was discovered. Di. f ° JcurTQXlCe of the organic ialady had remained latent, imti!tje tUe fall. The same author gives an intei estm, . ■ ,uul under, weights of the brains of fifty c b concludes that all inflammatory who died of various diseases, pj^u of the organ, affections have a tendency to increase, the 0f blood and that this increase is mainly due to the gieatei amou contained in the cerebral vessels. * “Die Krankheiten ties Gehims und RUckemnarks boi Kiudcni, Muuthncr, p. 169. Wien, 1814.ATROPHY. 273 Rokitansky has observed hypertrophy of the medulla oblongata, while Virchow and others have described cases of the new forma- tion of brain substance in the form of a tumour on the walls of the ventricles. Hernia Cerebri, or Fungus Cerebri.—As a result of local injury, we meet with a species of fungoid growth of the brain, which has been termed hernia cerebri, but which is very different from the hernia cerebri to which allusion has been made, in the section treating of congenital hydrocephalus. In consequence of a fracture of the skull, the brain appears to sprout forth in the shape of a vascular, medullary growth. It appears as if the brain, released from its contineinent, luxuriated in its newly-acquired liberty. Extensive suppuration is generally found accompanying this form of hernia, within the brain. According to Forster, the mass much resembles granulations on the skin, being composed of loops of dilated and elongated capil- laries, from which proceed offshoots of newly-formed vessels, the whole being surrounded by granular masses and cells, having the general character of pus-cells; while the nervous structures disappear. The whole is thus a loose kind of granulation tissue, which must be regarded as an outgrowth of the non-nervous, i.e., vascular and connective-tissue elements of the brain substance. ATROPHY. The converse of hypertrophy is a condition which, as we have ; already had occasion to remark, is the result of a natural process 1 in old age; but it is also the effect of disease; or of an arrest of 1 development. In consequence of long-standing exhausting illness in children, Dr. West informs us that the brain is found far from * “iling up the cavity of the skull, so that a knife may be passed in i many places between it and the cranial walls. The same appear- • ance is met with in the adult, and the consequence is that serum is effused between the brain and its envelopes in order to supply the defect; the convolutions become thinner and they are sepa- ' rated by broader sulci. There is some discoloration of the tissue, .and the veins of the pia mater are observed to present a vari- cose appearance, owing to the loss of support which they experi- ence. We also meet with partial atrophy; this is generally of a secondary character, owing to pressure exerted upon individual parts by tumours or other adventitious growths, apoplectic cysts in the arachnoid or peripheral lesions. The absorption induced by the effect of pressure is accompanied by induration of the adjoining layers of tho cerebral tissue. The atrophy that is found as a result S? arrest in the functions of a peripheral nerve, as in the case of the optic thalamus in amaurosis is a marked instance of the in flu- h ta °f fuuctional fierangement upon nutrition, propagated to a TClapton : “Trans. Path. Soc.," 1871, vol. xxii. p. 20, Plate ii. ATRornY. 274 In idiots we have congenital atrophy of the entire or of portions of the brain; in the twain of old insane persons it is common, according to Neumann’s statement, who has examined fifty cases of the kind, to find the posterior lobes and their convolutions more atrophied than other parts; Sir Charles Bell, Cruveilhier, and Lallemand record cases of epilepsy and hemiplegia, accompany- ing congenital atrophy of one hemisphere, though not necessarily associated with a destruction of the intellectual powers. Atrophy of the brain is often seen at the autopsies of persons who have died of starvation or in an extremely cachectic state; and being necessarily accompanied by a large increase of fluid within, this fact has led to such cases being described as cases of serous apoplexy,” a condition not proved to exist, and which can noser he admitted as a cause of death. Atrophy of particular parts, e,g., of the cerebellum has been known to occur.* In one remarkable case, recorded by Dr. ^lap- ton this portion of the brain was reduced to one-third its natuiai size, weighing 710 grains, instead of 2,200, which was reckoned as the mean weight. No cause could be traced.CHAPTER XI. THE BRAIN—MORBID GROWTHS. The products of those perverted states of nutrition which give rise to new growths, are found in the brain, as in other tissues of the body, though for the most part in a secondary form; associated with or following upon their deposit elsewhere. They have certain features in common, owing to the anatomical relations of the brain ; thus they all generally assume a rounded shape owing to the uniform pressure to which they are subjected on all sides; they may not proceed to a high degree of development from the early danger to life which they induce ; they are liable to produce softening of the tissues in the immediate vicinity, and, owing to the impairment of the circulation, are commonly accompanied by an effusion into the ventricles. The last two circumstances are those to which we may probably refer the symptoms observed during life; for the presence of tumours in the brain is often not discovered until the death of the patient from disease of some other organ, and where they had maintained this quiescent state, the cerebral tissue in the vicinity exhibits no traces of degeneration. Thus Messrs. Tonnelle,* Le- veille, and others, who have devoted especial attention to the occurrence of cerebral tubercle, conclude that the tubercles in themselves do not give rise to any symptoms, but that the cerebral symptoms accompanying them are exclusively due to the inter- current inflammation. The difficulty of early diagnosis, and the fact of adventitious growths in the brain occurring almost exclu- sively in the secondary form, place them more especially in the range of the morbul anatomist; they are even less amenable to therapeutic treatment than when they have found a nidus in the abdominal or thoracic organs. The forms which we most frequently meet with are tubercle, cancer, and a special form of tumour, glioma; but sarcoma, myxoma and other forms are occasionally seen syphilitic growths' very rarely. * See RUliet and Bartliez : “Traits Clinique des Maladies des Enfants,” tom. xiii. p. 562, et seq.276 TUBERCLE OF TIIE BRAIN. Tubercle is a frequent concomitant or source of meningeal in- flammation. Tubercular deposit in the cerebral tissue, like tuoer- cular meningitis, is a disease specially incident to childhood. but the two are not necessarily associated together. Tubercle in the brain may affect any part of the organ; it occurs mine shape of rounded nodes varying in size from a pins head to a walnut or hen’s egg; the deposits are not generally nume- rous and their size bears an inverse ratio to their frequency. It is most common to find only one or two, and of an average size of a chestnut. Dr. Baly has recorded a case in the reports of the Pathological Society* of a young man who died m the MiUbank prison, and in whose bram tubercles were found; only two were discovered in the left hemisphere, but those in the right are estimated to have been as many as fifty, varying m size from a grain of pearl barley to that of a barley-corn; the same case is also instructive as showing the great rapidity with which the deposit may occasionally take place under circumstances favouring the disease; for the patient was admitted into the prison on tne 30th December as a healthy subject; after a few days was attackea with headache, and on the 19th of January following he died with all the symptoms of an acute cerebral affection. The case appears to disprove the dictum of Rokitansky, that cerebral tubercle never occurs in any but the chronic form. Cerebral tubercle usually occurs m the yellow variety, presenting the appearance of soft yellow cheese, and the miliary granulations which'are so characteristic of meningeal tubercle, are very rarely met with, men they occur it is usually around a caseous mass, and hence the question has been raised whether the whole mass was originally in the condition of miliary granulations. Rokitansky is of opinion that tubercle in the brain, does m part at least, com- mence in the grey translucent form, considering that poitions of a tubercular mass are sometimes foiind m that state. In any^case, however he adds, it may continue for a short period only in that form and soon pass into the stage of the ye low cheesy tubercle Other pathologists would look upon the miliary granulations as the result of caseous metamorphosis m the primary mass, which thus acts as a focus of local infection. Sometimes the mass is evidently made up of an aggregation of minute graduations, and in these cases the view of Rokitansky seems very piobable. in o her cases according to Forster, the transition to healthy tissue is formed b’y a homogeneous zone of a greyish-red colour made up of newly-formed tubercular elements; moreover half or the wb ole of the mass may be made up of such elements exclus vel , showhm that it is not composed of an aggregation of nunuto growths, but was one homogeneous mass from the beginning. This * Session 1850-51, p. 34.TUBERCLE OF THE BRAIN. 277 fact is remarkable, as showing that pure tubercular growth may, in the brain, attain a size far exceeding that of tubercles in anv other organ. The minute structure of the more recent portions of cerebral tubercle resembles that of recent tubercle in general. They are composed of nuclei, small cells, and occasional larger many-nucleated cells. In the more central portions are seen these elements in a state of atrophy or decay (tubercle corpuscles), and the more homogeneous amorphous granular mass called caseous tubercle. These gradations of structure will distinguish tubercle from all other new growths, except the syphilitic, which it extremely resembles, and the history and concomitant morbid appearances will sometimes be the only criteria for drawing a distinction between them. If, as occasionally happens, the tubercular matter proceeds to the stage of softening, the superficial observer may mistake the morbid appearances for those of a simple abscess of the brain. Cerebral tubercle is far more common in children than in adults. Out of 472 tubercular children (putting together the cases of Barthez and Eilliet, and of Dr. Hillrer), eighty-seven had tubercle in the brain. Physicians who have had the most extensive experi- ence in these matters agree as to the rarity of its occurrence in the adult; thus Cruveilhier never met with a single case, and Lugol, in the large hospital of St. Louis, has only seen eight instances, in none of which any symptoms of the disease were manifested during life. Iu 117 cases of adults dying of tubercle reported by Louis, it occurred only once. It is a singular fact, which we gather from the statistics of MM. Killiet and Barthez, that sex appears to exert a marked influence upon the occurrence of cerebral tubercle; in each variety, the males are considerably more liable to the affection than females; of forty-four cases, we find twenty-nine occurring in boys, and fifteen in girls. The fact is confirmed by the statistics of our own medical writers: an analysis of fifteen cases reported by Dr. Abercrombie and others, establishes a similar proportion; ten of these cases were males, and five females. It is however, right to state tha.t Dr. Hennis Green’s * statistics contradict this fact; his observations were made at the same hospital as those of MM. Killiet and Barthez, and of the thirty cases which he has collected fourteen occurred in boys and sixteen in gii-ls. Out of twelve cases described by Dr. Ilillier, nine were in boys and three in girls. . The deposit of tubercular matter sometimes occurs in patches of UTegular shape and size, on the surface of the brain, beneath the pia mater,t but commonly, as we have already seen, it forms nodules within the cerebral tissue. It is often met with both in cerebrum and corebellum at the same time; the number of cases * “ Medico-Chir. Trans.,” vol. xxv. p. 192. 1 See Mr. Dunn’s case, Ibid. p. 209.SYPHILITIC TUMOURS OF THE BRAIN. 278 in 'which, it occurs in one or the other alone is about equal, tiie pons Varolii is, in rare cases, the only seat of the deposit, _ In the lungs we frequently meet with satisfactory evidence oi the power of the system to reject and cure tubercle; we are not possessed of similar proof with regard to the brain ; the on j analogous process is that in which the vitality of the deposit seems utterly destroyed, and cretification results ; this is a metamorphosis which sometimes, though rarely, takes place m cerebral tubercle. We must not confound with cretification of tubercle, certain gritt\ or sabulous masses found in the brain; thus our notes contain the history of a case, in which, on a vertical section of the cerebel- lum the knife grated upon some calculous formations imbedded in the tissue, and intimately adherent to it; there proved to be, on each side, three or four irregularly crystallized masses, which broke up easily on pressure, and were not affected by either liquor potassm or acetic acid. There was no other perceptible disease of the cerebral tissue, but the choroid plexuses were covered with concentric corpuscles. Andral* gives, as a great curiosity, an analogous case, in which, however, the “ ossifications weie enit°Sshoulda be Mentioned that while miliary tubercle of the meninges is often found in the vicinity of a cerebral tubercle there is also a form of miliary granulation found in cases of general tuberculosis in the cerebral substance under the meninges, which in its relations to the vessels and other characters precise j resembles that met with on the pia mater. SYPHILITIC TUMOURS. Syphilitic growths in the brain are not common. Thcy resemble generally the gummata of other parts, being composed chiefly of greyish Lni-translucent matter, which is liable ^me — and crumbling on undergoing a caseous transformation. Accordi i - irt thev stand in an intermediate position between the.soft ^gummata^of mucous membranes or the gelatinous of the penosteim on the one hand, and the hard gummata of the liver and testicle o the other hand. ' They present, as a rule, a soft, transparen , ^om times gelatinous mass, surrounded by a delicate granulation-tissue °UThe°;aseous portions are firmer and more difficult to cut than ‘ Clinique Mddioale,” t. v. 719. ‘ Die Krankhoften Geschwulste, vol. u. p.CANCER OF THE BRAIN. 279 the surrounding mass, especially if, as often happens, the latter have undergone some softening. Sometimes on the other hand, the external parts acquire a very considerable hardness, and a sort of firm, fibrous capsule is formed, enclosing the caseous masses. As to their minute structure, the younger and softer parts are principally composed of cells, usually round, with rather large nuclei, imbedded in a scanty, granular or sometimes fibrillated intercellular substance. When the fibrous element predominates, the cells are rather spindle-shaped or stellate. The degenerated portions show an imperfect, fatty metamorphosis, being composed of amorphous material derived from atrophied cells, and punctated with fatty molecules. This description (which we have taken from Yirchow) obviously agrees in many points with that of cerebral tubercle, and the distinction is, as has been said, often very diffi- cult. According to the same authority, the tubercular mass is usually more perfectly round than the syphilitic, which either has the form of the part in which it occurs, or else has a very irregular outline. Further, the larger portion of the tubercle is usually compound of caseous material, the younger and undegenerated portions being so inconspicuous as to be often overlooked, while the syphilitic gummata consists in great proportion either of fresh granulation-tissue or of a fibrous mass, the caseous portions being inconsiderable, and they never soften in the centre. It is also diffi- cult to distinguish syphilitic growths from some forms of -sarcoma and glioma in the condition of fatty degeneration. It should be remembered that syphilis is very liable to give rise, beside its peculiar or specific products, to other morbid formations which are not distinguishable from the products of ordinary inflam- mation or hyperplastic growth. Thus in the case of a syphilitic growth connected with the pons Yarolii, recorded by Mr. Robinson, the report of Mr. Hulke on its minute anatomy, states that histo- logically it was not distinguishable from a glioma.* CANCER. Next in frequency to tubercular deposit we find the various forms of cancer, all of which, excepting the epithelial variety, are met with in the brain. There are no symptoms peculiar to the disease, beyond the effects resulting from pressure; and even they do not appear to be in any way commensurate with the size of the deposit. The form which it assumes is that of infiltration, without any definite limits, or of a tumour surrounded by a cyst; in the former case, there seems to be a complete replacement of cerebral tissue by cancerous growth. In other cases capillary hsemorrhage and softening, or sometimes induration of the brain substance is observed around the tumour. The size of the growths varies; • “ Trans. Path. Soe.,” 1869, vol. xx. jp. 17 an 1 21.280 CANCER OF THE BRAIN. they may be as large as a fist, and. several are sometimes present at once. Cerebral cancer may be either primary or secondary. It occurs more frequently in the cerebral hemispheres than m other parts of the brain; thus, in forty-three cases of cancer 01 the Fig. 68. Cancerous tumour, occupying-the upper portion of the posterior cerebral lobe of a was surrounded by a red vascular margin. nervous centres alluded to by Andral,* we find thirty-one occur- ring in the cerebral hemispheres, and five m the cerebellum, the remainder were thus distributed: three were found in the pituitary gland, one in the coipus callosum, and three m the spinal C° Melanotic Cancer.-The melanotic growths met with in the brain seem to be always strictly melanotic cancer or sarcoma , .the simple pigmented growths seen on the membranes not occurring m the cerebral substance. The melanotic cancer is not common, and always seems to occur simultaneously with similar growths else- where Sir Robert Carswell t gives a specimen of tw o tumours of this description, which were located nithenght ^ SenetaXl into the ventricles. Melanotic deposits were also found in other organs of the same subject, and the veins passing from the tumours in’the brain were observed to contain melanotic matter SXondSom Dr! Hooper’s work on the brain also contains a + “ Clinique Mod.” T. v., p “ Pathological Anatomy, . 633. ” 183S, Art. “ Melanoma,” pi. ii.SARCOMA OF THE BRAIN. 281 plate representing this disease; and Dr. Glen dinning brought a ease of the kind before the notice of the Pathological Society.' SARCOMA Sarcomatous tumours of the brain have the same general charac- ters as these tumours have elsewhere. Virchow t distinguishes two forms of cerebral sarcomata—the hard and the soft. The former are masses of dense homogeneous growth, very slightly vascular, and clearly marked off from the surrounding tissue by a more vascular zone; so that they can be very easily detached. In their ndnute structure they are composed of spindle-shaped cells arranged in a parallel manner, with a very distinct, firm, sometimes fibrillated intercellular substance. The soft variety sometimes offers forms which constitute a transition to a myxoma or glioma, but are distinguished from these growths by the great abundance of cells, which so preponderate as to give the tumour a medullary appearance; and there is no doubt that many tumours described as medullary cancer of the brain would by modern sys- tematists be referred to this group.J This form of sarcoma is described as of a greyish rather than a white colour, and usually ■very plentifully supplied with blood-vessels. It may, however, undergo fatty degeneration, becoming yellow or opaque. The cells may piesent all the varieties which have been described as incident to the cells of sarcoma, but spindle-shaped cells, with remarkably long processes and small cell-body, are especially noticeable. The intercellular substance is scanty and incon- spicuous. Portions of the tumour may sometimes be transformed into cysts, but without a distinct lining membrane. Haemorrhagic changes are not common. Cerebral sarcoma is always single; it does not generally spread by continuous infection; nor has it ever been known to give rise to secondary tumours in other parts. On the other hand, sarcoma of the brain may arise as a secondary growth, consequent on tumours of the same kind elsewhere. A remarkable example of this mode of origin is recorded in the transactions of the Pathological Society for 1867 and 1868; where a spmdle-celled sarcoma of the head of the tibia, which had’existed lor many years, was removed by amputation, and seemed to be completely cured. A year after the operation, cerebral symptoms supervened, and the patient died with numerous tumours in the brain partly connected with the pia mater, partly isolated, which naa the same typo of structure as the primary tumour of the ' “ 5^Pr;rt of the Pathological Society of London,” 1847 n 15 ; rpT^Ie Krankhaften Geschwiilste,” ii. 377. ’1 * lSwS? ? tumour described by Messrs. Gay and Toynbee in “Trans Path >» 1 undoubtedly now & called a sarcoma. 8°°- Trans. Path. Soc. vol. xvm. p. 21o, pi. iv. ijgs. 4, 5, 6,'and vol. xix. p.! . 33.282 GLIOMA. This name has been given to a new growth arising in the special fundamental substance or cement of the unites the true nervous structures. This fundamental substance, the existence of which has only lately been recognized is compos^ mostlv of soft finely granular material, m which are contained small^cells mostly round, and situated at a certain distance from ^ne anoter Sometimes’ the cells appear to be* fine reticulation, but it is not quite certain not due to certain methods of preparation. To the v bole ..trucruie Yh-chow has given the nam'e of neuroglia (nerve-cement , and ldstoloSsts are now agreed as to its existence, though not with XiKXts characters. A general the neuroglia constitutes, as we have said, Sn°-"a^0^^es of the brain; its partial increase m the form of a turn , P gr* great resemblance to special developments of connective^^ ^ ^ *» -s Ci5oomc'1 .to ^^te^imbed1^ in an intercellular substance ened specimens to be imbccuiea m which is like that of the ?n amoimt an/character. The liable to undergo tatty or cls®?ia®iue substance all round. Cerebral are quite continuous with the h^m suborn ^ not affect gliomata generally occur as so Y or give rise to secondary the membranes or neighbouring oi„ , ^ at aU malipnant. formations elsewhere; t ey • , ‘ cerebral hemispheres, The parts of the brain chiefly performs occur on the and Specially their posterior lobes ^^VSstance of the walls of the ventricles, the softer Jittmi q{ the hemispheres. They arei very^ ra_ o mostly ‘ sarcomata or brain, tumours m this situation umub LaWemay mention that these tiunours^occin ™n*he^tter cord, along the cranial nerves, am infectious and malignant, situation they appear to be often locallj infectiousCYSTS OF THE BRAIN. 283 Glioma* often approaches in structure to a sarcoma or a myxoma; and mixed forms are not uncommon. Fatty Tumours.—The simple fatty tumour is only found in the choroid plexus, whore it does not, however, attain any great size. The fatty growths most frequently met with in the brain are those which are termed cholesteatoma; they are formed of concentric layers, and present a metallic lustre ; they consist of membranous layers, ordinary fat vesicles, and cholesterine plates, and are inclosed in a capsule. They attain the size of a walnut, or goose’s egg. These tumours most commonly arise from the membranes of the brain, but may originate in the cerebral substance itself. Fibrous Tumours are, according to Forster, extremely rare; they are usually single, and form clearly defined nodules, the size of a pea or a hazel nut, rarely larger. Myxoma.—This form of tumour is, according to Virchow,+ occasionally met with in the brain, and especially in the cerebral hemispheres. It forms very soft gelatinous masses, which fre- quently break down into cysts containing a mucous fluid. They may attain the size of a man’s fist. CYSTS. Cysts of various kinds present themselves in the brain ; those resulting from apoplectic effusions are the most common, and present, as we have seen, various stages of development. It is probable, that in many instances, their formation may be due to the same process as that described by Mr. Prescott Hewett, as giving riso to the inter-arachnoid cysts, viz., a formation of a false membrane, subsequent to the effusion from the sanguineous clot. These cysts, it should be remembered, may ultimately come to contain a colourless serous fluid. They are characterized by the firmness and thickness of their walls. Abscess and softening may equally give rise to cysts. Echinococcus or Hydatid cysts are also found. They occupy the peripheral more frequently than the central portions of the hemi- spheres, and are found to present no connection with the surrounding- tissues. They are, according to Dr. Bastian, almost always barren, and thus correspond to the acephalocysts of Laennec. When met with in the brain there is generally a coincident development of the same parasites in the liver, a fact first pointed out by Aran, who has analyzed forty-seven cases of this kind. They are mostly met with in young persons from ten to twenty years of age. § • Cases of glioma of the brain are recorded by Dr. Cayley, in the “Trans. Rath »oc., 1885, vol. xvi. 23; Dr. Moxon, Ibid. 1868, vol. xix. 21, pi. x. fig. 3; and by Dr. Green, Ibid. 1869, vol. xx. 24. r e , j ^ “Die Krankhaften Geschwlilsto,” ii. 423. i Schmidt’s “Jahrbhchor dor Modiein," vol. xxxiii p 186 rcf’gr0no6a are *iven bI Dr- Ualitmu in Reynolds's “ System of284 CONDITION OF THE BRAIN IN INSANITY. Cysticercus celluloses is either confined to the brain or else there 1-. a simultaneous development in the muscles. It may occur in very large numbers ; according to Cobbold, at least 100 fatal cases ha>e come to light. . Serous cysts, neither originating in haemorrhage nor due to parasites, are of very rare occurrence; but true Dermoid cysts have been recorded. In a case referred to by Forster a .compound cyst, containing hair, cartilage, and bone, was found m the left cerebral hemisphere of a boy ten weeks old. Another containing fat, with short stiff hairs, was seen by Sir J. Paget, under the cerebellum of an elderly man.* CONDITION OF THE BRAIN IN INSANITY. Although there are no specific morbid conditions always asso- ciated with insanity some facts have been ascertained v hich are worth consideration. They must necessarily be given m a some- what fragmentary form. In acute mania, we find evidences of great hypertemia, or incipient inflammation, especially in the cortex of the brain.t The grey matter (and especially its inner two-thirds) assumes a distinct pmk tint, which is not removed by washing the cut surface. The same is seen m a less degree in some parts of the white medullary substance. This intense hypo- rfemia is probably always accompamed by some degree of capillary haemorrhage; and on microscopical examination red blood cor- puscles may be seen scattered among the nervous elements, io this condition especially belong the so-called dissecting aneurisms, though we must repeat that they are not peculiar to cases o t in- sanity. A more chronic change consists m an increase of connective tissue by which the nervous elements are compressed and unpaired. This connective tissue growth appears to start from the waffs of the capillary vessels themselves, and not from the neuroglia. The vessels suffer also more obvious changes; they becomevarmosM^ tuous knotted, or aneurismal; their walls show great thickening and fatty or calcareous degeneration. These changes m the ve^ are especially characteristic of insanity, accompanied by general naralvsis t Degeneration of other structures is shown by the presence of amyloid corpuscles, pigmented, fatty, and atrophied Live cells. Actual calcification of the ganghomc cells h^d| been observed. Peculiar changes in the nerve cells have turtner been observed by Meynert, who describes vesicular enlargement * “ Surgical Pathology,” second edition, p. tf£>. aifferent from that caused by t We believe tills form of hyperremm to be^essentiaUi cortoN, an(1 by the meningitis. It is-distinguished by outer layer is pale. In meningitisf or simple cm^ges'tion.^oi^die o\her' hand, the whole of the grey eor.tcal Dear's bv RokUm^'lwSl'sanhey, and others See description and figures bv Suiikey in “Trans. Path, doc., 1866, \ol. xvu. pl»P* •CONDITION OF THE BRAIN IN INSANITY. 285 ! division of their nuclei, oedema, and hardening, accompanied by -enlargement of the cells themselves, with final molecular decay, i and atrophy. * J ’ Drs. Take and Rutherford,! in an analysis of the morbid appear- Lances.in the brains of thirty insane persons, found in eighteen ceases increase of connective tissue (grey degeneration or sclerosis), -which they regard as proceeding from the neuroglia. They also ■ describe the occurrence of cavities sometimes as much as -3-inch in ildiameter. 5 0 Changes in the Brain in General Paralysis.—One form of insanity, kknown as general paralysis of the insane, has been made the -subject of a very large number of pathologico-anatomical investi- gations, and it has often been thought that some lesion had been udiscovered which could account for the disease. Adhesion of the meninges to the cortical substance of the brain -was first thought to be the clearest pathognomonic sign of the ddisease ; then softening of the cortical substance, and its easy - separation, or splitting into layers, was regarded as the criterion • induration of the white substance also had its defenders; and other observers attached very great importance to a granular and sandy condition of the inner surface of the cerebral ventricles. - here is, however, no one of these characters which is not met To- Yl0I' U( conditions of the brain, associated with very different diseases. Certain morbid conditions, supposed to occur m the cerebellum, are even less constant and important. When the microscope came to be applied to the investigation of the brain other changes began to be signalized. Rokitansky was the first to au iricrease ir| the connective tissue or neuroglia, miain nn'f; thiV°r!i!X’ an,d 118 observations have been in the mrra,^,rm Tiby °Bhei'S Wh° Hav? used yeiT different methods of /[he ^ango 18 no*, however, confined to the brain ; 15’ °n ,the other ^nd, found m a more advanced stage in the ' brain anTt fi>PeaBSBti0 f^fnd itself by ascending progress to the at a h'i.b dp P1' r w no? mdely distributed, or arrived 8vmnm fe%eif evolution, this change may produce hardly any bS Tp 1rhe 0rdel;r WL11Cb 14 attacks first the spine, then the i S’e S"617 Wlth the symptoms of general paralysis, the np Jp chronic increase of the neuroglia, certain changes in have been observed; they are described by d«t h lC af ei aS nodoiy pigmented ; but this phenomenon Cb v! t\ PP r't0 constant. In one case examined bV Dr the R • h° notlces the occurrence of small cavities in all parts of !h ‘°me "1 ■»¥»&. others with'SglS iee°n W f Y a,PP$:ar to corresPond precisely with what have been een by several observers, and very variously interpreted. They ftlr Psychiatrie,” 18G8. Medicin fltr 1868,” vol. ii. p. 19 „ Bain, Med. Joum.,” Oct, 1869, p. 289. * Journal of Mental Science,” Jan., 1870. Heft 3 and 4; quoted in “ Jahrea286 CHANGES IN THE BRAIN IN DIABETES. terms the etat cnble o l „ suffered from delirium hr the brains of old ^ * Durand Fardel himself attri- or mania, combined with p Y egt^on causing dilatation of buted these phenomena simpljp destruction of the sunound- the cerebral vessels, an attached no importance to them, ing brain substance; and hserved such cavities, which he Laborde,t on the other ^ > blleves them to be connected with calls “ lacunes pisiformes, and. Der . It thus phenomena of diffused genera ^ ^ counectioa with psychical seems that though thej events frequently seen in diffused manifestations, they are, at all events, neq 1 properly ^ c erebral paralysis, as w which such lesions were observed called. Many of the c< , ,. n were accompanied at least by ” °Zt of in the toe now to be con- sidered.J CHANGES IN THE BRAIN IN DIABETES. Dr. Dickinson § has with d\* conditions of the nei vou . ^ the pons "V arolii, the betes. The parts chiefly noticed J ^ weU as the medulla oblongata, an , hemispheres were examined m spinal chord; but the cerebu*seen small cavities, two instances. . In aU. ^er to the size of a small pea, varying from ^-(Tmch m “mer yellow plgment. containing .“debris of “jfob^ouX! andprobably in afi, sur- These cavities m °^e themselves dilated), and many rounded small arteries (f 1 width was very small m of them formed channels of ™rseemed to be the earlier stages proportion to the length. hnple dilatation of the vessels of the morbid process, there Ja* ^thout any obvious rupture, •with surrounding haemorrhage, g • al chord. Seven cases Similar changes ^^tpearances'm all showed a substantial were examined, and the app described as healthy. It is, agreement. The nerve cells ^described by Dr. Diokin- we think, obvious that the ch g dlfferent from those wluch son in their slighter degiees ar gtates of the brain refer («<*• *> «“ “** * “Maladies des \iepfacr^„e J0Td\i CeA-?au,” p. M- ’ + “ Ramellissement et Cong|U Koklt(lnsky, ‘ i “ OnGenwal laralys - ^ “Laacvt,. Sept 1st. ISJ. ‘Mc,iicme, vc inn ,-vol. ' 233, pi. vii. and viii.THE PITUITARY BODY. 297 ’the cerebral hemispheres as “fall of holes, of which the larger ' were J-yinch across,” and which “ lay so close together as to give a cribriform appearance to the section, the condition is strikingly i like the “ etat crible ” first described by Durand Fardel, and now 1 believed to be owing to atrophy of the brain substance, with ■ subsequent or antecedent dilatation of the perivascular lymphatic • sheaths of the cerebral arteries. The cases (4 and 7) where blood i globules and yellow pigment arising from degenerated blood were : found around the vessels, are evidently instances of that hsemor- : rhage into the perivascular sheaths, which is probably of very com- mon occurrence. In the extreme cases there was evidently destruc- : tion of nervous tissue, and the changes are such as have apparently : not been elsewhere described, except in connection with general : paralysis of the insane; and the fact that they were especially noticeable in the pons and medulla oblongata, i.e., approximately in that physiological region, injury to which is known to produce i diabetes, give Dr. Dickinson’s researches a peculiar interest. The morbid appearances in cases of diabetes described by some French i authors refer chiefly to the nerve cells, and were neither so well 1 marked nor so clearly described. They are, however, more definitely ■ assigned to the “ diabetic region.” THE PITUITARY BODY.- Die pituitary body presents morbid conditions which, gene- rally are rather pathological curiosities, than that they offer any peculiar points of general interest; in a physiological point of view, tumours or cysts occurring in it attract attention, from their a not producing those symptoms which are generally attributed to ^pressure upon the encephalon, and this is supposed to be due to :tfie force acting in an upward direction. Thus they are rarely accompanied by paralysis, though acquiring an extent sufficient ‘ o displace the lateral ventricles, with the thalami and corpora .stnata, a circumstance presenting, as Dr. Romberg remarks, an analogy to the different effects produced upon the conduction of a ■nerve by a tumour, according as the nerve is gradually distended lor forcibly compressed. Neither Rokitansky, who treats diseases •°t the pituitary bodj' in detail, nor Engel, who has written a monograph on the subject, corroborates the observations of Joseph Wenzel, that disease of the pituitary body is an essential feature ■m epilepsy. The pathologists of our own country have not observed a relation of the kind. Epilepsy is met with as a result , t.tle m°3t various degenerations, or morbid products within tho Drain, independently of any marked disease of this appendix cere m ; it is not constantly associated with any one lesion and m the cases of disease of tho pituitary gland, given, for in- stance, by Dr. Bright,* we find no epileptic seizures during life, * Reports, &e., case cxlii.THE PITTJXTAEY BODY. 288 and conversely, we see epilepsy occurring without any disorgan- ization of this part. „ . , , The pituitary body does not seem to bear any definite relation to the manifestations of the mind. Dr. Bright * gives an instance in which it was absent; the patient was a man who died at the age of forty-eight, of softening of the left corpus striatum ; but he had enjoyed thorough good health until five months previously. In the course of our account of cerebral morbid anatomy, we have had occasion to allude to the occurrence of aneurism of the cerebral arteries ; the subject will meet with a fuller consideration when we treat of the diseases of the vascular system but we could not admit the pathology of the brain without pointedly remarking upon their importance in the production of cerebral symptoms, and as a more or less direct cause of death. The diseases of the arteries play a most important part m the production of cerebral disease, and in many of the morbid conditions which we have passed in review they may be viewed as one of the mam elements. * An interesting case of disease of the^ in tlie “ Kecords of the Pathological Society of London for 1849, p.CHAPTER XII. THE SPINAL CORD AND ITS MEMISRANES. 1 We must commence this section with the ungratifying confession, : that it is a subject upon which our knowledge is very limited. - At present, we can scarcely be said to have advanced beyond the 1 very threshold of this department of science. We shall follow the same order we adopted in treating of the 1 morbid anatomy of the brain, and examine successively the post- . mortem appearances of the dura mater, the arachnoid, and pia mater, and then oi the cord itself. In all cadaveric examinations of the spinal column, it is particularly to be borne in mind, that 1 position of the body after death may influence the post-mortem phenomena, independently of morbid action, owing to the gravi- tation of the fluids to the depending portions, and their secondary » ®“ect uPon the nerve tissues. How important it is to attend to this point is illustrated by some observations, made by Mr. | Ceiling, of tetanic cases. On examining the body of a man who •i had died of tetanus, which had been placed on its face immediately a after death, Mr. Curling found that part of the pia mater covering the anterior columns of the medulla spinalis remarkably vascular ; a circumstance which would necessarily induce a conviction iu the mind ot the pathologist, that an essential lesion had been dis- [ covered, by which the exaltation of motor action could be satis- factorily explained. Unfortunately for the conclusive force of the I 'observation, in three other instances, where the bodies were [ suffered to remain in the usual position, the vessels on the pos- ' h-nor parts only wore observed to be turgid. Bus influence of position is more likely to affect the spinal cord than the brain, owing to its being less excluded from atmo- ! T/inC a«ency- is also important to remember, tbattho relation 1 envelopes of the cord differs from that existing between the investments of the brain and their contents in various material points. The movements of tho osseous case of the cord would nave rendered a close adhesion with the membranes a source of • On “ Tetanus,” p. 48. U2 gQ THE SPINAL COED AND ITS MEMBRANES. frprmpnt dancer • we may fairly assume this as a reason why the Smater of the Spinal column is only very loose y attached to the vertebral canal; on which account it allows of an accumu- lation of fluid on its external surface, such as we but rarelj meet with in the brain. Owing to the firm attachment of the dura mater to the occipital foramen, fluids accumulated at tins.part are nrevented passing into the cranial cavity, while there is a tree communication between the arachnoidal spaces of the two cavities. This fact is one that must not be overlooked in moroul aflections both of the spine and the encephalon ; independent of the Flec- tion that the arachnoidal fluid affords to the cord, it is an eviden means of securing a balance in the circulation in the nervous centres while, on” the other hand, a derangement m its quantity and site may be alone sufficient to produce serious symptoms, which the morbid anatomist would be unable to measure iy Mater.—We possess no evidence of the occurrence disease of the vertebra, and the eitension of psoas abscess, may meninges. This patBMo floid ^ eatkely este„nl lo the rrtS|«mo sacral region , e description lower down, i'he swelling S-tff.SSwy, or • TSg ;S"e has induced some pathologist - to deny its presence ittis.toweTM,^ omuTOlce ot idiopathic Morbid Growths, the - } „rmillv to adventitious products. • disease, in the dura “^V^T^inoS^ZS Jy occur Encephaloul, and othei fo the instances on Kfft S extended firm, the hones to the theca vertebralis.THE DURA HATER OF THE SPINAL CORD. 291 Fio. 69. An instance of melanotic growth apparently proceeding from the dura mater of the cord, is to be found in the Report of the Pathological Society for 1847. Dr. Williams discovered it in a patient, aged forty-six, who, three years previously, had suffered from hemiplegia of the right side, following the extirpation of the nght eye for fungus. The patient recovered from "this, and in the summer preceding his death was attacked with epilepsv weakness and numbness of the lower extre- r J ' mities, and inferior portion of the trank, soon proceeding to complete'paraplegia, super- vened. The brain and its membranes were found healthy; within the spinal canal, ■ closely adherent to the theca externally, • there existed an irregular encephaloid mass, i mottled with dark spots, extending from the 1 third to the sixth dorsal vertebrae, the bodies of which were carious and infiltrated with . cancerous matter; the portion of the cord ! beneath the tumour was flattened, soft, and 1 wasted. In connection with this subject, we : may also be allowed to mention the very rare occurrence of a genuine fatty tumour, within : the spinal column, in contact with the dura mater; an instance of this affection was ' Drought before the Pathological Society, in ! ?862> by Mr. Obre, in which death was produced m an otherwise healthy child by the mere me- chanical pressure exerted by a deposit of this ,.Pait of the dorsal por- Ikind The lipomatousi growth was two and aTouU^^Cled a-half inches m length, the breadth of the paraplegic, canal, and about half an inch in thickness ^ t!,i?k la^er of frmph composed of the ordinary spherical fat cells! was SSTSSSoSS it did not differ from fat usually met with in ‘S®. dura mater, and Seemflf1SitUati°r-’ e;Tpting that thS CG11S oor^VT^Se^ * seemed to contain fat in a more solid and an extension of disease | granular state. It lay between the theca and bi^ndfnterwrto^ 7rte" the bodies of the last cervical and first dorsal tiiages. The cord and dura vertebrae. Small masses of fatty tissue in this fna!er aPPear healthy in ! some who t'11'6 n0t, Dticommori. A tumour of JsSSSist. Bartholomew’s somewhat uncertain histological character, Museum, Series vii. No. growing from the arachnoid surface of dura 10,) Sr“d by ^ W‘lkS'* ““ ““ *» is occasionally met with in the spinal dura motor hich thus contrasts with the cerebral; while, on the other hand’ ■the spinal arachnoid seems to have no liability to that affection. ’ VJ™"8- Path- Soc.,” 1856, vol. vii. p 37 t Ibid. p. 40. 1292 THE DURA MATER OF THE SPINAL CORD. Isolated tubercles have been seen, either independently, or asso- ciated with scrofulous disease of the vertebrae; and Dr. Moxon has described a case of miliary tubercle of the spinal dura mater associated with tubercular cerebral meningitis.* A tumour of uncertain character from the dura mater, and compressing the cord, is described and figured by Dr. Cayley, t We should be inclined, although the reporter of the case gives it no name, to regard it as a psammoma, analogous to the growths of the cerebral dura mater which have been so called. * “Trans. Path. Soc.,” 1870, vol. xxi. p 12. + Ibid. 1865, vol. xvi. p. 21, woodcuts 6 and 7.CHAPTER XIII. THE ARACHNOID AND- PIA MATER OF THE SPINAL CORD. Although the anatomical connection between these membranes ! is somewhat different from that obtaining between the cerebral i meninges, it does not appear that their relation in disease differs i materially from what we have found to prevail in that localitv ' we shall, therefore, consider them together. The absence of valves in the spinal veins and their peculiar 1 distribution, cause the circulation of the spinal cord to be very ^ l?£o’sh< and therefore prone to congestion and stagnation : to thrs. Ollivier attributes the great number of dilatations which we I fandm the different points of its extent, in individuals advanced i in years. He adds, that he has generally remarked that the quantity of serum m the vertebral canal was so much the larger J according as there was a greater congestion in the veins of "the -spine, and of the membraneous coverings of the cord; thus the -slowness and difficulty of the course of the venous blood may be ihere the causes-of a dropsy, which is independent of inflammation ■of the spinal membranes. These effusions of serum will, accord- ing to the exciting causes, be of a chronic or acute character • in mlancy, irritation frequently gives rise to a more rapid accumula- -nlvv.° old a£e a slow effusion is frequently met with, which Rokitansky attributes, in part at least, to a secondary congestion, arising from atrophy of the medulla and the roots of ithe nerves. The fluid exhaled under such circumstances will loiiow the law of gravitation, and accumulate at the lower end of the spinal cord, and thus assist in exciting and perpetuating nara- Ihe^ic symptoms of which we may be unable to detect a sufficientlv satisfactory reason after death. y Hemorrhage. The occurrence of sanguineous apoplexv of the meninges, in any form is not frequent. Dr. Abercrombie gives t single instance, which occurred under his own observation in WL agC(! HTn’ ln, whom’ aftGr an illness of three days leath ensued after violent convulsions. A long and verv fill’ Joagulum of blood was found, external to the °cord, ;he whole length of the cervical portion. An interesting case294 TETANUS, TRISMUS NEONATOEUJI, AND HYDROPHOBIA. of haemorrhage tinder tlie pia mater, but external to tbe cord, is also quoted, from Dr. Stroud’s notes, by Dr. Bright (p. 340). Numerous instances of spinal apoplexy occurring in children are given by Dr. Mauthner, but as no post-mortem appearances are recorded, the inferences are solely derived from the symptoms, ■which do not enable us to state positively the exact nature of the effusion. A tumour described by Dr. Bennett as a cyst com- pressing the cord and originating in the sub-arachnoid space, appears to have been an old apoplectic cyst.* Spinal Meningitis.—We possess more satisfactory and copious evidence regarding the inflammatory affections of the spinal meninges, and it appears that it is a very frequent cause of death in new-born infants; thus, Billard found, that in thirty cases of convulsions, there was meningitis of the cord in twenty, only six of which presented inflammation of the cerebral meninges. It is much less frequent in the adult, and is here almost invariably associated with, or consequent upon, cerebral inflam- mation. As a result of an acute inflammation of the mem- branes, we find lymph or pus exuded, to a greater or less extent. Either may invest the entire surface of the cord, or it may be limited, as in a case that fell under oiu- own observation, m a child four years of age, to a space of an inch and a-half in length. Cases of cerebro-spinal meningitis are, as we have before remarked, frequently epidemic, but occasionally met with sporad.- cally. We must be careful in at once concluding, that we have to deal with a case of spinal meningitis, because we find the theca vertebralis lined with pus, for it may find its way from without into the cavity; thus, in a case of psoas abscess, given by Dr. Bright, the sudden supervention of fatal symptoms was manifestly due to this cause ; a probe could be easily passed from tne inter- vertebral foramina into the adjoining abscess. _ In the chrome form of spinal meningitis, the traces of the disease consist in greater or less opacity and thickening of the arachnoid, which frequently is found closely adherent to the spmal cord, and corrugated. TETANUS, TRISMUS NEONATORUM, AND HYDROPHOBIA. These diseases have been at different times supposed to depend upon inflammation of the spinal cord or its membranes, but as it seems without sufficient cause. The appearances met with in trismus neonatorum, areU>nee_- tion of the spinal arachnoid, with an effusion of blood or serai into its cavity; and Dr. West! also states, that in t le nee ' which he examined he found effusion of fluid or coagulated blood I “ Trans. Path. Soc„” I860, vol. vil. p. 41 “The Diseases of Infancy and Childhood, p . 126, 1st edition.295 CHRONIC INFLAMMATION AND THICKENING. in the cellular tissues surrounding the theca of the cord. This is not necessarily at variance with the statements of Dr. Soho Her* and Dr. Colies, f who attribute trismus to inflammation of the umbilical arteries, as this may, and is, found to coexist with the former. Symptoms of congestion of the spinal membranes have also been met with in tetanus, but in by far the greater number of cases, examined after death, no uniform or adequate cause, to which the symptoms were referable, could be discovered. Observers are generally agreed that, at least in the great majority of cases, the appearance of the cord and its membranes, is to the naked eye perfectly normal. The condition of the spinal cord itself in this disease will be discussed further on. Hydrophobia.—-The same absence of uniform pathological data exists in another disease which we cannot but refer to the nervous centres, hydrophobia ; congestion of the cerebro-spinal membranes and nerve matter, and some occasional effusion, is all that is generally met with in the shape of post-mortem effects ; we need not add that these appearances cannot be considered as cha- racteristic of the disease in question. Mr. Youatt, whose extensive experience of hydrophobia in the brute creation justifies our referring to him as an authority, states that the appearance of in- flammation of rabies is of a peculiar character in the stomach, but that no conclusion can be drawn from the state of other organs. CHRONIC INFLAMMATION AND THICKENING. In cases of long-standing paralysis and paraplegia, we find evi- dence of chronic meningitis of the cord in the corrugation, opacity, and close adhesions of the membranes to one another, and to the cord. A good illustration of this is afforded by a case given in Dr. Bright s Reports (page 380); here the dura mater of cord was un- usually firm and thick, and, as far as the middle of the back, closely adherent to the pia mater, from which, in most parts', it could not be detached without lacerating the cord. On attentive examination it was found that the apparent thickening of the dura mater depended chiefly on a layer of membrane, of almost car- tilaginous thickness, beneath it, and was, probably, rather the diseased arachnoid, or an adventitious deposit, than the dura mater itself. These appearances may be associated with further lesion of the cord, or with adventitious growths of the vertebral column or arachnoid. A remarkable case of thickening and induration of the spinal arachnoid and pia mater is recorded in the “Patho- logical Transactions” for 1809 (vol. xx., p. 354) by Mr. W. Adams and reported upon by Dr. Lockhart Clarke. (See Pigs. 70 and 71.) p.*477NeU<! Zeiteehrift fUr Gebiirtslninde,” von Busch, D'Outrepont und Ritgen, vol. v. t “ Dublin Hospital Reports,” vol. i. p. 285.CHRONIC INFLAMMATION AND THICKENING. 296 The thickening extended nearly the whole length of the cord, hut was most marked in the lumbar enlargement, where the new Fig. 70. Section through the spinal cord and membranes. a a, Comna of grey matter; bb, c c, posterior and anterior columns; d <?, new growth; e e, nerve roots involved in the new growth. Fro. 71. Portion of the same more highly magnified, showing the nucleated new growth ct connective tissue. e e, Nerve roots ; «' a nerve root partly infiltrated with new growth. (“Trans. Path. Soc.,” vol. xx. growth surrounded and separated the nerve roots both anterior and posterior; and the bundles forming the cauda equina.297 CHRONIC INFLAMMATION AND THICKENING. structure of the new growth was found to he hypertrophied and nucleated connective tissue. It is described as being greyish and translucent. Bony Plates in the Arachnoid.— Growths of this kind are of fre- quent occurrence on the visceral side of the membrane. In this respect we perceive a characteristic distinction between the head and the spinal column, for, while in the former, ossific deposits are common in the dura mater, and are scarcely ever met with in the ' other membranes, in the spinal column they are found to prevail in the arachnoid, and not to atfect the dura mater. A remarkable instance is recorded by Herbert Mayo, in his “ Outlines of Human • Pathology,” of osseous concretions surrounding the posterior roots of the nerves, and proceeding to the lower extremity. This un- ! doubtedly belonged to the class of pathological products under 1 consideration; and the case has a special interest, from its bearing upon an important law of nervous conduction. The pains suffered 4 by the patient were so limited to the lower extremity, and were so excruciating, that the surgeon performed amputation of the limb t though with what results need scarcely be stated. Cartilage also forms, though less frequently on the arachnoid. A good instance is recorded in the Eeports of the Pathological ■Society of London, by Dr. Quain,* who describes the lamime as composed of a transparent matrix, in which were deposited • small cells, containing nucleoli, and numerous small amorphous i granules. Tubercle of the Spinal Meninges.—The spinal pia mater appears to be by no means so liable to be the seat of the tubercular growth ■ as is that of the cerebrum. . Eokitansky remarks on the subiect, that he has never had occasion to suspect the exudation formed on the pi a mater to be of a tuberculous nature. An acute tuberculosis, he adds, he has never observed in it. » “ Reports," &c., 1S49, p. 26.CHAPTER XIY. THE SPIN AH COED. The forms of disease and their effects, which present themselves in the spinal cord, closely resemble those we meet with in the brain. The spinal cord does not appear to he so often attacked as the encephalon, and as we have already pointed out, it is the part which is generally left unexamined, unless attention is forcibly directed to it by the previous symptoms of the patient; for both reasons the records of its pathological states are much more scanty than those regarding the brain, and future inquirers have yet a laro-e field to explore. The evanescent character of congestion rarely allows of its being demonstrated after death; though it is impossible to believe that there should not be accumulation of blood in the cord in those instances in which the symptoma de- monstrate intense irritation of the part, as in tetanus. A case ol hydrophobia is recorded by Dr. Bright, m which a blush of was perceived in the cineritious part of the spinal cord opposite the second and third cervical vertebrae. An anremic condition of the cord is as difficult to demonstrate as its converse, though here too the practitioner will not fail to suggest instances in which As existence may be fairly assumed during life. Both states manifest themselves in the secondary effects of hypertrophy and_ atroj These may be general or local; the former affection belongs* chiefly to early hfe, and the latter, like the corresponding con- dition in the brain, to old age. A trophy of the spinal cord, except as the consequc ce of som^ special disease, is not very common It is sal,d. accompany atrophy of the brain m old age ; and is usually attendee Se degree of induration. It also occurs in middle hfe, in the case of those who are compelled to Pnss limbf recumbent posture ; or m whom, from any ^l^J Xphyof are little used. The editor has observed unmn.taheab e at, op J the cord in the case of a man who had been afflicted smce m^ & with double talipes equinus. Atrophy of pat cula * often caused by injury, pressure of displaced vertebia,i lof or inflammatory products, as soon in Fig. t • 1 .299 THE SPINAL COED. Fig. 72. oular tracts, that is of the portion of either the anterior or posterior columns connecting the brain with particular nerves, is seen as a secondary affection resulting from the functional inactivity of the nerves, or affection of that part of the brain with which they are connected; and sometimes special tracts become atrophied without any previous central or peripheral affection; hut these changes will he considered under the head of degenerations. Hypertrophy of the cord is said by Roki- : tansky to accompany hypertrophy of the brain in children, and to be characterized by ' swelling with aneemia, a rounded uniform : shape, and a tough consistence. It is how- ■ ever, as compared with the cerebral affection, ’ very rare. Local enlargement of the cord is also ob- : served above the seat of atrophy arising from ] pressure ; but this enlargement appears, ac- 1 cording to Forster, to depend upon inflam- ! mation. Ilyperoimia, or congestion of the cord, is described as an independent affection by : medical writers, but it can scarcely be said ’to be a condition recognizable by morbid anatomy; the post-mortem appearances 'being, in Dr. Radcliffe’s words, “ very vague iand unsatisfactory.” The condition of the cord met with in tetanus perhaps most nearly approaches, in its naked eye charac- t iers, to what is meant by congestion, but it cannot, in reality, be simply thus defined. Condition of the Cord in Tetanus.— The first ■observations on this subject are those of Roki- •itansky, published in 1857. His first case nut dated 1850. In this the cord was found ppale, infiltrated with a greyish viscid fluid, £and so far softened as to swell out in an unusual degree beyond the membranes when cut. In the viscid fluid which thus exuded were found detritus of nerve structures and irregularly swollen nerve fibres. The alteration was uniform W whole of the cord, and showed no obvious starting pomt. I ho same appearances presented themselves in numerous - MuUr c..e, both tr.um.tio and idiopathic; ,„d arc f} ky “ ““ »r hypertrophy of the normal ■neuroglia, or connective-tissue matrix.* Those researches ■necessarily conducted on the fresh specimen, without tho help of aaaar—“ - -u -isastsaj'; Part of a spinal corrl from a case of paraplegia, with angular curvature of the spine, in a lad aged eighteen. Opposite the contrac- ted part of the cord, a short process of bone projected from the angle of the curvature into the spinal canal. (From St. Bartholo- mew’s Museum, Series vii. No. 7.)THE SPINAL CORD. 300 the modern methods of research. Subsequently the organ has been examined by the method of hardening and preparing e introduced bv Dr. Lockhart Clarke, Leyden, who examined by this method the spinal cords from two traumatic and two idiopathic (called rheumatic) cases of tetanus, was unahle to discern any morbid alteration whatever. More recently, Dr. Lockhart Clarke has observed in several cases extensive areas of disintegration in the grey substance of the cord, especially round thp central canal The degeneration sometimes amounts to lique- accompanied by ebher d—«n » hulk and falling in of the cord, or else swelling, fie tos a observed hemorrhage. Dr. Dickinson confirms these observations, and also describes enlargement of the central canal, of cells in its interior ; hut according to Lerlach,i epitnenai pro Oration in fhi. eitn.tio. “t'n the S “a'Z^eSIble^SaVf,?!. may probably U regarded as the consequence of increased fimctonai^cln^ty^^ other respects his description agrees with that of Dr. Lockhart Glm^orrhageofthe Spinal Cord.-An essentialdifferencet appears tofS betwein the brain and spinal cord -th regard to one o extracting the lowing observation Jiom the Kepoit Pathological Society for 184J (p. • exception of oo^oS-SS W motion in the lower half of the body ^ ^ fhird ribs, and hour later with complete P^f movem^nts were producible, strong priapism; no excito-mot .Y^ igm subsided in about ^ a‘ “iJL *■ . «„« nrB„»,.*£,» “«■ hr >"* ••=-»*“ Chirureie," Bd. I.; 2ter noth. B. „ ggg German edition. l + Stncker’s “Lehre von den Geweben, p. bse. -Med. Chir. Trane, vo I t “On the subject of Tetanus,’ Bokitanskr: “LeberBindcpcwel«^u- ■ xlviii. Dickinson : “ Med. Cbir.Tran . '• !gi’mil'|U. observations have been recen Y „ p'Siby SrfSlbutt: '-'Trans. Path. Soc.” vol. *xn.MYELITIS. 301 spifle was examined seventeen hours after death. The vessels on : the surface of the cord were a good deal congested. An incision ■ was made above the front of the medulla, commencing at the part corresponding to the third cervical vertebra, and terminating at the 1 last dorsal; two small clots of blood, amounting together to about a drachm, were found in the interior of the medulla, occupying about an inch and a-half in extent, and situated between the origins of the second and third pairs of dorsal nerves. The sub- »stance of the cord around the clots was somewhat soft; the medulla i was more or less infiltrated and stained with blood from the site of the clots upwards as high as the third cervical vertebra, and downwards as low as the last dorsal.” No microscopic examination of the parts appears to have been : made ; future observation must determine whether atheromatous, or other degeneration of the arteries, or previous derangement in the nutrition of the adjoining tissues, is the causa proxima of s spinal, as it so frequently is of cerebral, haemorrhage. A case is reported by Dr. Ogle,* in which haemorrhage took place at two points, in the dorsal region and in the medulla oblongata. The ' subdivisions of the vertebral arteries are described as atheroma- : tons. MYELITIS. • of tlle termination of myelitis, or inflammation of the cord, m the first stage, like those of encephalitis, are scarcely ever met ■ with; it becomes the question whether, owing to the peculiarity of the nervous structures, the first onset of inflammatory action is not ' at once accompanied by those changes, which in other tissues are 10<TL UP°n as ^e. sec°ndary products of inflammation. ' tv P^0(^uet of inflammatory action most commonly discovered jn the spinal cord is ramollissement, a condition which, however, hhe its analogue in the brain, is equally attributable to other ‘ PnthOiOgieal states, each of which may be recognised by the naked we, and the aid of the microscope, the degree of softening varies irom a slight diminution of consistency, as compared with sur- ouih mg parts, to a state of pulpy diffluence ; the extent of cord anected differs equally. In paralysis we very frequently meet with o other trace of disease but a trifling softening in the lumbar •nt ’ or cervical regions, manifestly the result of a slow inflain- aiatory process. _ Tho same difficulty occurs here which we met Htn m the brain, of distinguishing betweon inflammatory and non inflammatory softening. The colour of the softened portions mernli or w4hlto> and, th"ugh granule cells or glo~ 2 ar9 frequently met with, these must not be taken as a ertaui evidence of inflammatory action. • “ Trans. Path. Soc.,” 1853. vol. iy, p 13.302 myelitis. The softening effects the si as.M ™ zs$fc$L'£S” nisa the white matter m a comp ^ Jg m ^ brain; circumscribed diffused suppuration m oaa wthin the medullary abscess is also, thou0 y . J of this which occurred m matter. Dr. Xted with sudden loss of a woman aged ntty-six, wn foIlfAVed by death in a week, power of the limbs of right column of the The brain was sound, but cervical portion, there was a spinal cord, m the mi ^ Qr three inches in diameter; it “sSUte/like .pus, which became more consent to the white matter m^yebten “al-nutrition or degeneration^ process is a result of exha > . ag tbe former would be the reverse will be foun number of blood-vessels, the favoured by the presence> o a o ^ Qot copiOUsly supplied with latter would spread m , 4 js deepened, and a rose-blush them. The tint of the grey while this hue is pervades the white matt llow tinge when the suppurative replaced by a.moie o RilUet and Barthez have invariably found stage has set in. M • . o tbe wbite matter of the cord that, in children, the softening membranes, and that the extent coexisted with inflainm tio of the amount of the latter, of the former was m the exa soinal cord which is A form of white et wiS in the brain, as a result analogous to the white softeningm ig ^ u0 way connected of the effusion of wramm a ’ ls0 result in induration ot the with inflammation. Mye^S, ^sidered by itself. cord, but this condition is This is found coexistent with Sclerosis or Induration of the Cto ^ frequently brought on by ramollissement, or by itself. softening, and it is not chronic or cachectic mflaimnatl°* eXphy of the affected part, ^infrequently complicated considerable, the nerve tissue re- When the induration is very ‘ t density, and appear- sembles, upiliyicr obscrjes, m thai Esuoixol h» ance boiled white of egg > 11 1 , . . Induration depends “p»tedly met with nemly-f.m»> essentially upon ‘he “bstitutmn t,^ hatrophy of that pren- connective tissue, ^bich PP caUfid fibroid substitution, oi mole ously existing; ^ may hence tissue is inferior to, or less commonly, from the ldoathatt(,inal specialized structure, fibroid the ““of . .. Diseases o£ tlie Brain,” So., 1816, P- 365.MOBBED ANATOMY OF LOCOMOTOR ATAXY. 303 and “grey degeneration,” and is spoken of also simply as new t growth of connective tissue. The process thus indicated occurs in rthe brain as well as the cord, but is more important and uniform m the latter. The grey colour, which is very characteristic of all : forms of chronic degeneration of the spinal cord, appears to depend i essentially upon the loss of the white sheath of the nervous fibres; when this is from any cause destroyed, the nervous columns appear fgrey instead of white. Sclerosis, or induration, appears chiefly in i two forms : (1) simple induration, which affects particular nervous t tracts uniformly ; (2) localized induration, which appears isolated in special regions or foci, and is analogous to the local indurations observed in the brain. Simple induration is anatomically dis- ttinguished by being merely a substitution of normal connective rtissue for nerve tissue ; so that it is usually doubtful whether the ..atrophy of the latter or the hypertrophy of the former is the primary affection. Localized induration (which is sometimes called inflammatory) is known anatomically by the abundance of nuclei contained in the substituted connective tissue, which thus evidently owes its origin to proliferation or hyperplasia of the connective tissue, and the atrophy of nerve substance must be rregarded as secondary. The adventitious sheath of the blood- vessels is especially involved in these cases, and seems to be the - starting point of the growth. Simple induration is especially seen in the grey degeneration of the posterior columns of the spinal cord, which is characteristic of -tne disease known as locomotor ataxy. MORBID ANATOMY OF LOCOMOTOR ATAXY. J?9 m°rt>id changes in this disease consist, according to the .mammary description of Dr. Lockhart Clarke,* chiefly in a certain sn?,Lin< itl0? a,I1<l integration of the posterior columns of the pinal cord, of the posterior roots of the spinal nerves, of the !u.t U°r ?ley sn, , I1CG or cornua, and sometimes of the cerebral tRo If" A vanable number, and frequently in the latter stages of and S6’ nearly ?U the nerve fibres of the posterior columns ,ilJ^ rootfi fal1 'nto a state of granular disintegration, and normal' y disappear. Usually the posterior columns retain their nectivi al S£a?e m consequence of hypertrophy of the con- Seddefl tb«’ Wh‘Ch-replaCeS th° lost fibres‘ In «us tissue lie neio-hRed th v“almng nerve fibres. with the debris of their thev „ ’ ln djdorent stages of disintegration. In some places m J ar<)„ sevcre(l 1 nto short portions, or into rows of crlohnlnr wES’l >!d °Ut*0f tbef medullary sheaths or white substance tach has been stripped from their axis-cylinders. In other 3 tb°y bave hdlen into smaller fragments and granules, which 9 “ British Medical Journal,” July 3rd, 1869.304 PARTIAL OR LOCALIZED INDURATION OF THE CORD. „.tw lie accredited in the line of the original fibres, or are globules are aSolen; ttlaS’oftencoCted^o ^ap^round Fig. 73. Section of spmal cord shoeing degeneration of posterior column, and part of Section oi posterior cornua. (After Leyden.) the blood-vessels. iSr'leTion, are not essential to the prodnchon of locomotor ataxy. PARTIAL OR LOCALIZED INDURATION OF THE CORD. Sclerosis of ^ characters. It is, compa^mher'of nuclei; and a sclerotic tissue contains a, J gI£all cells may he seen m the similar proliferation of nuc 3 vesselg Tbc interruption of outer coats of the smaller ka^to secondary degenerations nervous currents thus caused d 'pi,;s form of sclerosis affecting considerable porbons f^h ^ of the Uver, granular may be regarded as aito t fibroid degenerations oi degeneration oi the kidnejs, ana so other organs.* - BtnvinM. *-«» * =“*” ^ ’ “l Plates xii. and xiii.SECONDARY DEGENERATIONS OE THE SPINAL CORD. 305 Partial sclerosis or induration with patches of grey or gelatinous i degeneration, due to the new formation of connective tissue and • compression of nerve substance, has also been found in different jparts of the spinal cord, medulla oblongata and pons Varolii, in (cases of paralysis agitans. * Simple Degeneration of the Cord.—Degeneration of particular [parts of the cord unaccompanied by new formation of connective t tissue appears to occur, and to be the cause of disturbances of the (functions of the cord. The precise mode in which these degenera- ttions originate is not yet quite understood. Thus in progressive 'muscular atrophy or wasting palsy Dr. Lockhart Olarkef has ob- served at particular regions in the posterior grey matter, small sareas, streaks, patches, or spots of a delicate, finely granular, [transparent substance, apparently resulting from the disintegra- tion of nerve tissue. SECONDARY DEGENERATIONS OF THE SPINAL CORD. When the passage of nervous impressions is from any cause • completely suspended in the white columns of the cord, the sub- stance begins to degenerate from disuse ; and hence in cases of ['paralysis, whether central, from affections of the brain, or arising tifrom lesion at any point of tlie cord itself, ttie wliole nervous tract I between the seat of disease and the peripheral termination of the nnerve is liable to degenerate, and ultimately to become atrophied. | In the spinal cord these changes may sometimes be traced through lots whole length before there is any atrophy, and when it is pe*r- faectly healthy to the naked eye. The degenerated portions are '•sometimes seen on cross sections of the fresh organ as paler and more transparent, though often natural to the naked eye, than the • surrounding parts; when treated with carmine, they become un- : usually deeply coloured. The manner in which the change may wbe traced and thus shown to be secondary is shown in the diagrams ‘(rig. 74), representing the secondary changes in a case ofhemi- ' plegia depending on tubercle in the brain. L, These changes have been observed after various lesions of the rrof111’ aS emb°lism, tubercle, &c., but not after recent apoplexy, l lhey also occur in consequence of special lesions of the cord itself 1 (from tumours, &c.) below the part affected. I *n„tlie degenerated portions there was seen, beside the atrophy f and fatty degeneration of the nerve fibres, what appeared to be an (' increase of the connective tissue, which must, of course, have been '-secondary to the nervous atrophy. The ultimate result is probably simple atrophy, and thus it is only in an intermediate condition mat the changes just described can be traced. ^ Reynolda’B “ Sy3tem of Medicine," vol. ii. p. 199. Many refer- t Beale’s “Archives of Medicine," 1SC1. X306 TUMOURS AND NEW GROWTHS. A similar secondary degeneration may result fromi some injury the nervous^racts was obseryrf above Eio. 74. ,r™. Bum, - m., ' Arf" Heilkundc,” 18b9, vol. x. p. 433, plate ix.) and below a. injury supposed t.rbe^ produced by »rra„feSt?Sr&i ubo~ it, to ft. posterior columns. TUMOURS AND NEW GROWTHS. Softening of the spinal cord occurs, as in ’ NeitJ,erofj of morbid growths, such, tpml?h they are oftener n them is, however, frequently t > Ollivier. whose workl seen in the cord itseif thani itsi memo^ ^ kmd on record LJ dTn"eeu7.nce 3 ggg S JKJ SdeS,£ S^rLerrour war — - * dura mater. 1SS7, toI. 1. . “ Uedico-Chinirgical Transactions,307 PARASITES. Bokitansky states that he has repeatedly met with cysticercus in : tho cervical portion of the spinal marrow; but his experience ; agrees with that of Ollivier, that they do not occur in the substance • of the medulla. They in most instances are situated externally to :the dura mater. In this case it is manifest that they had been first i developed outside the column, and had forced their way in through t the intervertebral foramina; they have, however, also been found ■ within and underneath the arachnoid. In what Dr. Oobbold calls the most remarkable case of develop- i ment of cysticerci within the human body on record, among two : thousand parasites found in the body, one was in the medulla oblongata. Hydatid cysts are very rarely found in the cord. According to :Davaine, three cases have been recorded. Dr. Cobbold has met ■ with an anonymous record of one case.CHAPTEB XV. the nerves. Tt yerv rarely happens that individuals die of an affection residing solely in the -nerves; consequently we are left to surmise from analogy their morbid appearances in those diseases m which thej are manifestly affected. At the same time we must never forget that the nerves are not central organs, but that they are the tel®" graphic wires destined to convey intelligence to and from the central organs. When, therefore, we have to deal with a nervous symptom we must first inquire whether it be due to a centric or to a1 peripheral cause, or, in other words, whether the nerve is propagating a morbid impression from the brain, the spina marrow, oi° the sympathetic ganglia which may simulate periph- eral disease, or whether it is giving evidence of local <frse*» by producing in the brain the consciousness of that affection. n the maiority of instances of irregular or painful action of the nerv“ we should be as much in error in seeking for the cause of the derangement iu the nerve itself, as if, when our galvanic battery does not act, owing to the trough containing no acid, we sought to remedy the defect by changing the conducting wires. The nerves have repeatedly been made the subject oi mqm.m diseases in which either local symptoms predominate, or from the known physiological action of the nerves, controlling , pnted the morbid phenomena could fairly he soughi in ai fnfoitoi “Z! Xs Z sciatic has been subjected to exam.- maiviauai no ,liad beGn affected with sciatica, and the “Sale bettpteT.sX hypothetical excitant, of h=g- ZtS SZ sciatica, is na.de, to ^ £309 THE NERVES. Fig. 75. instances recorded of the vagus having been reddened and swollen, indicating inflammatory action, hut the large majority of cases in which the point has been attended to have presented no such change. Thus Dr. Albers examined the vagi, in forty-seven children who had died of hooping-cough, and found them per- fectly normal in forty-three; Dr. West, who has also paid especial attention to the subject, has, only in one case out of eighteen, met with any change in the nerves; in this case they were de- cidedly redder than usual. We are inclined to conclude, with the latter author, that an appearance so frequently absent cannot be one of much moment, and that, like Cotugno’s famous case, to which we have just referred, it may be set down to a cadaveric change. Atrophy of Nerves.—The morbid condition most commonlv seen in the nerves throughout the body is atrophy; this, however, can rarely be said to be a primary affec- tion; it is brought on by various causes, such as the following(1) Pressure, acting immediately upon the nerve, and causing gradual, and even entire absorption at the point upon which the pressure acts; this we find occurring in the case of aneurism, or enlarged glands, lying in the vicinity of nerves. (2) Atrophy of the nerve results from the part to which it is sup- plied ceasing to perform the func- tions for which it receives the nerve; thus atrophy of the optic nerve may follow destruction of the eye, by mechanical injury (as in the case figured); or the nerve of an extremity wastes, when the muscles of the part are condemned to inactivity. (3) It may result from some lesion or functional inac- t ivity of that part of the central nervous system with which the nerve is connected. In cases of atrophy and degeneration of the spinal cord, the nerves passing from the diseased portion aro necessarily 111 an atrophic condition; thus, in an instance given by Cruveilhier, * >n Which the disorganization of the cord was limited to the pos mnor strands, extending from the lower end to the cerebellum, the Portion of a cerebrum -noth the optic nerves and remains of the left eye. The cornea is opaque, and the coats of the eye are collapsed. The left optic nerve is considerably diminished in size between the diseased eye and the optic commissure. Behind the commissure, the nerve on the right side is rather smaller than that on the left, but the thalami appear to be of equal size. (From St. Bartholomew’s Museum* Series viii. No. 5.) ' “ Anat. Pathol.,” livr. xxxii. p. 19.THE NERVES. 310 posterior nerves were entirely atrophied and converted into trans- parent threads, which contrasted strongly with the normal appeal - ance of the anterior nerves. Special cranial nerves become atrophied when the part of the brain from which they spring is destroyed by new growth or haemorrhage ; and anything which cu_- off communication with the nerve centres has the same effect. In some of these cases, as well as in others which appe^ idiopatlnc, the atrophy appears to be preceded by an overgrowth of the con nective tissue matrix of the nerve, producing a condition hke the erev degeneration of the central nervous organs before described. Thus Rokitansky* states, that under certain circumstances, nerves which are extremely atrophied acquire a greyish translucent ap- nearance eSpecianyywithin the skull, and that the colouring is produced by the presence of a blastema filled with numerous nuclei which, at first gelatinous, and afterwards tough and elastic, takes the place of the nerve tubes as thev (hsappe^j^t be^m^ more distinctly visible, as the original neurilemma of themtlectea nerve diminishes. He adds, that the vessels of a nerve in this condition are often palpably dilated (4) Atrophy may also the consequence of inflammation or (o) of semte decay. hZStZiv of Nerves.-This condition is extremely rare, and its origin is qifite unexplained. Perhaps theimost remarkaWe cu*m record is that described by Dr. Moxon,t m winch ^ tfie mrves of a female subject were found on an average three tun - t normal size The increase depended upon an enlargement of normal size. whicp we found to be in many cases "VPor3r WSte (while -002 is the largest normal diameterh Virchow has endeavoured to show some connection between nervous hypertrophy, the “p^nllvS of the lowe^races^f mOT^*are>srifikingly large. Hpertrophy=tim« lemma, or to a fibrinous deposit within the latter, as m about by injury but may result from the extension ol ^ lmemmittuus oucauix ^ or less intensity; the 'stfusror, o.“Xthe»SibSn>e| and swelling of the nerve, and the ner production of fibre- k separated, and, as it were, uuravdlsdL H the prodi^ fesciculi. | or, If resolution ensues, tire nerve m.y| * “ Lehrbuch der Pathologischen Anatoim^” band. n. pp^49s. «»• (3rd ^ | ‘ '’of- viU. P- 260, Plate v, 1 Virchow, vol. iii. pp. 262, 263, 266, &c.311 THE NERVES. be restored to its primitive condition, or again the part may ac- commodate itself to the change, and the nerve remain permanently enlarged and somewhat nodose. After partial or total division of a nerve these changes are liable to occur, and in an irritable con- stitution the deposit of lymph continues to act as a source of irri- tation, and induces intense pain. The occurrence of suppuration within the sheath necessarily gives the nerve a yellow colour, and causes the tubules to be broken up. In all inflammatory affec- tions of the nerves, the cellular tissue surrounding them will like- wise be found inflamed, It is questionable whether nerves are ever subject to any idiopathic inflammation, and when the sur- rounding parts are involved, these invariably attract much more attention than the nerve itself. Moreover, the statements on record, though but scanty, do not agree; thus, to return again to the vagus, which has always been the pet nerve of pathologists, probably owing to its size and superficial site, we find that Kilian has observed it to be inflamed fifteen times, in pertussis, while Breschet has only met with the occurrence twice, a relation that is the more surprising when we recollect that the sphere of ob- servation of the former is a small German provincial town, and that of the latter, the capital of France. Autenrieth, also, states generally, that he has found the vagi inflamed, in persons who have died of spasmodic cough. The cutaneous affection called Herpes Zoster has been attributed to inflammation of a nerve branch; but there is reason to believe that the original morbid change is here in the sympathetic system. Condition of the Nerves in Tetanus.—Two cases of inflammation of the nerve are given by Mr. Curling, * in his treatise on tetanus, in which healthy spots were found, between which the nerve tissue appeared inflamed. M. le Pelletier,! has also published several cases, in which the inflammation appeared propagated along the injured nerve, to the spinal cord, in tbe same disease. The most complete investigation, however, has been made by Froriep ; f in seven cases of tetanus, in which injury of a nerve had preceded, he has discovered a uniform lesion, resembling that indicated by Mr. Curling, and consisting in a tumefaction and reddening of isolated tracts, extending from the wound to the spinal cord; he has not found it in other cases, in which no tetanic symptoms prevailed. Rokitansky has observed in isolated spots in the track of the nerve, at very variable distances, bright red injection of the sheath of the nerve without any inflammatory products. Other careful observers as Forster § (in nine cases) have failed to find any such changes, so that we cannot regard them as constant. * “ A Treatise on Tetanus,” 1836, p. 72. + “ Revue Medicale.” 1827, vol. iv. p. 183. t “ Neue Notizen aus ilem Gebieto der Natur und HoilVunde,” 1837, vol. i. No 1. $ “ Handbuch der Path. Anat.,” vol. ii. p. 047 . 2nd edition.312 NEUROMA. Eio. 76. Of the morbid growths found in nerves, the so-called neuroma is the most common. Two kinds of nerve tumours must, however, be distinguished; the so-called true and false neuroma, the former containing true nervous tissue, while the latter is merely a tumour of some kind in connection with a nerve. The true neuromata may be composed of white medullated nerve fibres (neuroma myelinicum of Virchow) or of grey non-medullated fibres (neuroma amyelini- cum). The latter are extremely difficult to distinguish from ordinary fibrous tumours, and were first separated from them by Virchow.* There is no doubt that the greater number of tumours occurring on nerves are not composed of nervous tissue. At the extremities of the nerves in stumps after amputa- tion of limbs, bulbous enlarge- ments are formed, which are genuine new growths of nerv- ous tissue. (J?ig. 76.) On careful microscopical examin- ation, the swellings are found to consist of a plexus of white nerve fibres with double out- line. t Similar outgrowths are met with as the consequence of ligature of or injury to the nerve. Tho nerve swellings of stumps after amputation may attain the size of a bullet or plum. True neuromata unconnected with division or injury of the nerve are very rare, and it must remain doubtful, from the de- scriptions givon, whether some cases belong to this class or to that of false neuromata. They are often multiple, and sometimes occur in immense numbers on almost every nerve of the body. The spinal nerves are chiefly affected, but instances are known in connection with cranial nerves. Only the optic and olfactory nerves seem to A stump of the upper extremity, show- ing: the bulbous termination of the median, internal cutaneous, musculo-spiral, and rousculo-cutaneous nervous; the circum- flex pas-es behind the teres major and its termination is not seen. (From St. George's Museum, a. 35.) * “ Archiv,” 1858, Bd. xiii. s. 263. Also “Die KxanMraftcn Geschwillste,** Bd. iii. s. 2^3-305, from which great part of this section on Neuroma is derived t See figure in Virchow, op. cit. vol. iii. p. 253, tig. 227.NEUBOMA. 313 Fig. 77. be exempt: several cases are recorded of tumours on the auditory nerve. * J Still rarer is the Neuroma amyelinicum, or tumour composed of grey non-medullated fibres; only two cases are described by Virchow himself, and we need therefore only refer to his work for further details. False Neuromata.—The greater number of tumours of nerves belong to the classes Fibroma, Myxoma, or sometimes Sarcoma, as these all agree to some extent in ' their mode of growth, and it is im- ' possible in all cases to be1 certain 1 to what kind of tumour the descrip- : tions of authors are intended to ap- ■ ply; we can only give a very general description, which will apply equally : to many cases of true neuroma. The idiopathic neuroma occurs 1 without any known cause, in the > shape of a round or oval tumour, ■> varying in size from a grain of ' wheat to that of a pumpkin, and in number from one to several hundred. - It must be classed among the non- i inflammatory growths. The tumour is generally solid throughout, though occasionally it contains a cavity. It ihas a tendency to increase in size, and the nerve-fibres are propor- tionately distended and separated. * It may generally be easily detached 'irrom the nerve. The structure most ■commonly seen is that of a dense web of fibres with scattered nuclei, ■coming under our definition of a -fibroma. In many cases the tumour -is soft, gelatinous, or semi-trans- parent, and would be described as a myxoma. Cystic cavities are sometimes formed, and occasionally ■contain a fatty emulsion, so that the tumour is of an atheroma- ious character. Dr. Smith t has published two cases of neuroma which are instances of the occasional extravagant production of -hese growths; in them almost every spinal nerve was closely ttudded with neuromata, which did not, howover, give rise to nauch uneasiness; in fact it appears, as also noticed by the same mthor, that they are rarely productive of much pain. Another A posterior tibial nerve, in which there is a circumscribed ovnl tumour, composed of a soft gTumous sub- stancs. The component fasciculi of the nerve are separated and spread out' around the tumour, the peroneal nerve is adherent to the surface of the neurilemma, extended over the tumour-. (Prom St. Bartholomew’s Museum, Series viii. No. 1.) • See case by Toynbee "Trans. Path. Soc.,” 1853, vol. iv. n rirrith, M.U '"&c°nDubiLa, ST’ DlttBU0His- aud Treata^t of Neuroma^by A. W. ■ 259, pi. ix. fig-. 1,314 NEUROMA. Pig. 78. case of multiple neuromata from the posterior tibial nerve, in which were cystic cavities, is recorded by Messrs. Van der Lyl and Snow Beck.* , „ „ ,, Painful Subcutaneous Tumour.—'This remarkable form of growth, the earliest account of which seems to have been given by Camper in 1760, though first fully described by Mr. Wood, in 1812, was at one time unhesitatingly reckoned as a neuroma. Later observers, unable to discover nerve fibres, describe it according to the structure which seemed to them predominant, as a vascular erectile tumour (Schuh), a muscular tumour, (Bill- roth), or a fibrous tumour (Paget). Nerve fibres can however generally be traced, and Virchow is inclined to think that some forms at least, stand in a close relation to neuroma.t Cancer and other malignant growths of nerves are rare, especiaHy as a primary affec- tion. When cancerous growth spreads into a nerve, it may infiltrate its structure without producing any very marked symptoms, simply separating, not destroying, the nerve fibres.! In the nerves of the senses we also meet with the primary formation of cancer. In the retina, medullary carcinoma, or some growth thus described," is not unfrequently found unassociated with cancerous growths in any other part of the system; but a primary cancer in this situation may give rise to secondary growths else- where The retina is also subject to a special form of morbid growth, viz., the glioma, otherwise confined to the nervous centres,§ doubtless often described as carcinoma. » “ Trans. Path. Soc.,’’ vol. vi. p. 49, pi. iii., iv. raPth. SOC.,” 1867, vol. xviii. P- ^ voi. xx. p. 332. A median nerve, in wliicli is imbedded a small tumour, over which the filaments are spread out. (St. Bartholomew’s Mu- seum, Series viii. No. 13.)t 11 On Tetanus,” p. 325. CHAPTER X\H. THE SYMPATHETIC SYSTEM. A few cases are on record in which the ganglia of the sympathetic - system were found more or less deranged and altered in structure. I It is probable that a series of nervous centres, like that presented iin the sympathetic, are much more frequently diseased than we l have it as yet in our power to demonstrate. We can scarcely con- - ceive that the so-called functional derangement of the heart, for 1 instance, can continue as it does, for a series of years, and the 1 perves controlling its action not be or become organically altered ; 1 m _ saipe way, long-standing derangement in the nutritive and * secretive functions of the abdominal viscera may be assumed to i give rise to material changes in the cceliac and semilunar ganglia, i as the numerous diseases of the generative organs can scarcely -exist without a similar influence being exerted upon the spermatic plexus. Ihe anatomical disposition, as well as the physiological 3manifestation of the range of action of the sympathetic, justify 1 ?ur )e^le‘ *P 1*s great and powerful agency in disease ; the actual demonstration of the fact is, however, yet reserved for future •U<* r a-618' ® . at * repeatedly examined the nerves of the viscera um different diseases without discovering any lesions. With the exception of a single case, he has found the semilunar ganglion intact in cancers of the stomach. In a case of periodic mania he found this ganglion of the size of a small nut, with a cartilaginous centre. ° Several authors have reported cases in which one or more of the ganglia of the sympathetic were found congested and inflamed in tetanus. Swan t has noted this condition in each of three cases in which he made a post-mortem examination of tetanic indi- viduals. That this, however, is not a uniform lesion, and not noted because overlooked, or not attended to, is proved by the numerous cases of traumatic tetanus recently minutely examined More or less vascularity of the sympathetic ganglia after death is * “ Anatomie G™6rale,” i. 225.THE SYMPATHETIC SYSTEM. 316 so extremely common, that we must suppose it to depend upon i accidental variations in the distribution of the blood supply. Herpes Zoster is a vesicular inflammation of the skin which, from its distribution, is clearly dependent upon a morbid condition of i a cutaneous nerve, and has been sometimes regarded as a neuritis, r. or inflammation of the nerve trunk itself. Pain of a “ neuralgic” i character often accompanies the cutaneous affection, and paralysis - of motor nerves more rarely. Actual changes in the nerve twigs ; are somewhat dubious (though described by Haight), but more decided changes have been traced in the sympathetic ganglia con- nected with the nerves. The nerves most commonly affected are the branches of the fifth cranial, the intercostals, and in the leg, the anterior crural or other branches of the lumbar plexus. The ganglia corresponding to these are the Casserian ganglion for the fifth, and the ganglia connected with the posterior roots of the spinal nerves. The latter were long ago described by Barensprung : as congested in cases of intercostal herpes ; and lately V. Y yss has, with the aid of modern methods of research, examined the 1 Casserian ganglion in a case of herpes of the fifth cranial nerve, and found it acutely inflamed. We must, therefore, suppose that the disease is one beginning in the grey matter of the ganglia, and . that some morbid change peripherally transmitted, causes the cutaneous eruption. It appears that the sympathetic system may also, though veiw rarely, be the seat of neuroma. Dr. Smith gives an instance of it occurring in the cervical ganglia, and figures it; it is, probably, the same case which is described, by Oruveilhier,* as a case of fibrous transformation, and enormous development of the cervical ganglia, and the nerves of communication passing between them. One of the tumours was two and a-half inches long by one in breadth. Both authors state that their subject was accidentally discovered in the dissecting room, in Paris, and that no history of the case was obtainable. Dr. Smith, in alluding to this remarkable degeneration of the cervical ganglia, states that, according to Schiffner and Bischoff, . this condition of the sympathetic frequently coincides with idiotcy and cretinism; it is a point which requires further confirmation. Pin el (quoted by Yirchow) is said to have found the superior cervi- cal ganglia of the sympathetic enlarged to three times the normal size in nine insane persons. » “ Anat. Pathol.,” Livr. pi. iii.THE PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY OF THE ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. CHAPTER XVII. THE MORBID ANATOM Y OF THE PERICARDIUM. The frequency of morbid alterations in the pericardium increases with age, a proclivity which is not marked in the same degree with ' regard to the internal lining of the heart, which is much more I Prone in childhood to take on diseased action than we should be inclined to assume a priori. Congenital affections of the pericar- . dram are very rare, and though cases of its entire absence are recorded by observers like Baiilie and Breschet, the majority of / instances that have been classed under this head have been shown o lie only apparent anomalies, owing to intimate adhesion between £Lt furfaces„of tbe sac giving rise to the semblance of the til lt- A Case °f undoubted absence of the pericardium, where Tub ,ym the same sei’°us sac with the left lung, was observed r- ^ P1 * Ealy in a man aged thirty-two.* ;,^n,othei' congenital peculiarity rarely met with is the non- attachment of the pericardium to the diaphragm, so that the infr tVeCTtltUE9 a d’stTfc Pendulous bag. Congenital openings pinto tae pleura have also been observed.f f ibrous thickenings of the pericardium, may occur so early in me as to seem congenital; we allude to the so-called milk spots wmcn are yet considered by various authors as results of inflam- mation exclusively. This is the view of Mr. Paget, while Dr otlglun ,s inclined to look upon them as the product of attrition nftl’ n8 they are alm?st universally found on the anterior surface ne heart, at the point most in contact with the anterior walls of l. i«0rV; £* » probably reconc.led by the ot- I,,'.*;1 kinds of white spots, os was well laid of mrtr ivavt;* oae’ Probably. owing to a previous attack torictbn ’ TL0thU1' t0 simPle tbickeningof' the pericardium m motion. They are cream-coloured opacities of the visceral * “Report of Pathol. Soc.,” 1851, p. 60 Douglas Po—” ’ • - t “Mfimoires Douglas Powell; “ Trans. Path’/Soo.,” 1869, vol. xx. n. de la Sociftfi d’Observation,” vol. i. p. 347, 99.PERICARDITIS. 318 layer varying in size from that of a sixpence to that of a fi ’■ c- shilling piece, and more, which may at times be detached from the subjacent serous membrane, to which they are then connected bv fibrous adhesions. In other cases they are mere thickenings of the pericardium itself, or rather of the subserous cellular tissue, and cannot in that case be detached from it. The former, to use the accurate description of M. Bizot, present at their commencement the form of small transparent elevations, aggregated together with circumscribed edges, and but slightly adherent to the serous mem- brane. They soon lose their transparency, becoming white and opaque, but still capable of being removed without injury to the subjacent serous membrane. They occupy every portion of the heart but lie chiefly in the direction of the blood-vessels. The second variety have no circumscribed margin, they are peculiarly white, and their greatest thickness is m the centre from where they are bevelled off in all directions; these are essentiallyidentical with the pericardium itself, and constitute a true hypertrophy of the membrane. We are ourselves of opinion that they are to be viewXs resulting from two causes; and that while they are in many instances the results of previous inflammation, they mav also represent a simple hypertrophic condition resembling the horny thickenings of the cutis. The great frequency of the occurrence of milk spots* in Bright’s disease of the kidney has been pointed out by some observers, and is obviously connected with the frequem hypertrophy and enlargement of the heart in that disease. Mi snots of this kind are always found on those parts of the heart which are exposed to friction. Thus, when the heart is normal m size the most frequent situation is near the apex, on the area which touches the chest wall. Another situation is the front aspect of the right ventricle, which, m dilatation of the heart, frequently strikes against the walls; and other portions of the ventncularor auricular surface are, for similar reasons, sometimes thus affected. PERICARDITIS. The first effect of inflammation in the pericardium is to produce a reddening and pulpy thickening of the membrane, by the conges- tion of the blood-vessels and interstitial effusion of serosig- A beautiful reticulation of minute vessels is visible to the naked. er > and still better under a low power of the microscope, both o ^ internal and external surfaces of the pericardium exudataonon the free surfaces then follows, which, according to tlie constitut o of the individual, is of a more or less plastic chapterIn the most active forms, the matter produced is a se^;Sd m viUous material of a yellowish hue, forming a reticulated 01 vui * See Dr. Taylor’s paper on the Causes of Pericarditis, in Medico Cli vol. xxviii. p. 468.319 PERICARDITIS. appearance, which must be attributed to the movements of the heart. Laennec has very correctly compared the appearance thus presented to that we see on quickly separating two slabs of marble, between which a layer of butter was interposed. This plastic Fig. 79. A heart covered with inflammatory lymph, investing both the parietal and visceral layer of the pericardium, which has been cut open and reverted. An incision has been made through the false membrane over the left ventricle, to turn it back and show the subjacent muscular tissue. The lymph fringes the right auricle and coats the root of the aorta. material gradually becomes organized, and we find minute red vessels projecting into it: and as this process proceeds the two surfaces become intimately adherent to one another; the lymph loses its fluid constituents; it is converted into firm bands, con- necting more or less loosely the visceral and parietal pericardium, which, according to their density and tenacity, indicate the period of their formation. If adhesion does not result, absorption may remove these appearances, and nothing but a general opacity or thickening of the pericardium remains; or again, the active con- dition may be arrested after the formation of villi, and without the supervention of adhesion they may continue in a passive state, and present the appearance termed the hairy heart, the cor ■nllosum. It is customary to quote as an instance of this a classical name; the great enemy of Sparta. Aristomenes, was captured and killed on his third entry into Lacedaemon, and his heart is stated by Pausanias to have been found covered with hair tn other cases the effusion resulting from pericarditis will bo of aPERICARDITIS. 320 more serous character; and we then find the pericardium more or less distended with a straw-coloured fluid, in which flakes of lymph ai^e discovered, while traces of lymphatic exudation are seem Attached to the membrane with thin free ends waving in the fluid. We have seen the pericardium mount up from this cause to t.ic second rib and the quantity of serum varies from half an ounce to two Quart’s In this case, as in the former, absorption mai take nlace Taking but comparatively slight traces of the previous C Sa L pericaAm itself appear, to adjo.t rtself to the ‘"X^pericarfSMammation hthe purulent Fluid contaSg larger or smaller amounts of pus is found distending the sac This form is, of course, connected by insensible gradations the others inflammatory exudations differing from one "She? as w?h,” before Mentioned, chiefly m the larger or smS^S'proportion of^migrate^blo^ corpuscl^ or some inflammatory 'leucocytes many of which we may conclude rPTmfJateTSmh the walls of the blood vessels; and in the have emigrated t n elements which have been especially second place of moie compiex^anvier. They are cells contammg prolongation.“»e Sb£h hare al.0 bee,; the myeloid cells Conditions of the serous membranes, and seen in. ;a^0^b“ cle These cells are found in sections to be fSr au'S^S “o2£™ oells of the „rbu. epithelium, K“sU proliferate, pro- (following^the method f^h^on tj? of the «1U living frog. He aR esultin2: in the production of cells of sisrJ’jsss *- —- -,h' ; 9SOSSSS ;WSSSS«aa!«6S»*PERICARDITIS. 321 tissue contribute to the formation of new elements, though some of these may be leucocytes which have escaped from the vessels. Hydropericardium.—The serous effusion just spoken of must not be confounded with the dropsical accumulation of fluid, to which we should restrict the term hydropericardium, and which is a fre- quent accompaniment of general dropsy. In many cases of wasting disease we find a small quantity—perhaps one or two ounces—of serum in the pericardium, which appears to be eliminated shortly before death. It is not associated with symptoms of inflammatory action; and the fluid itself is a clear, amber-coloured serum. The amount appears to increase by post-mortem transudation. In long-continued dropsy of the pericardium the heart is generally I found contracted, and the muscular tissue anaemic and "of light- ; °rowa hu,e- Occasionally an atrophic condition of the muscular i nbre results, which is characterized under the microscope by an absence of the striation seen in healthy muscle. Resu\\s of Pericarditis.—The phlogistic process in the pericardium . generally involves the entire surface of the membrane in acute cases; the chronic form, except as a sequel of the former, has a tendency to limitation, and its residuary effects are seen in the form of circumscribed white patches, either on the visceral or parietal portion, or of partial adhesions or isolated bands of false membrane. . Jhe false membranes remaining after an attack of pericardial inflammation, may, unless absorbed, become the seat of changes thm!,aJw° metki1Ch ^find them uudergmng in other structures throughout the body. They present a metamorphosis into fibrous cartilamnoid, and osseous tissue. The deposit of the latter occurs m smaller or larger patches; they may be numerous and distinct • ^om one another or they may unite to form, as in a preparation I SSiff'" (N°' «>«»)• * ** «*<*»* ™2HCi,firtion somctimcs goes so far as to affect the whole of the t* » 1m'"er’ Policing the effect of a bonv capsule enclosing the neart. I rue bone is said to be sometimes formed. Pericardial Inflammation.—Pericarditis is not often an- hopathm disease. Dr. Latham, who was the first to notice its ntquent complication with the rheumatic diathesis, has rarely met rJ, i v 6XCept ln thls connectl°n. Andral gives six cases of peri- !™18 “ot. connected with rheumatism, of which three were un- met w;tv|tfi<1 Wlt 1 any 10thcr ?101rbld affection ; while Corvisart only At v ith five independent of rheumatism, which wore all excer.t c “0!le' comj'hcatod with disease of other parts. The rheumatic nndPi1CafR°n 18 im7° fou°d at a11 Periods of life. Messrs. ItillLt 22?^“ Dl; West look upon it as essential in y Zn ’ and 1,11 wnters on tho subject concur with regard to its frequency m adults, though the statistical results arS at are * “TraDs. ruth. Soc.,” 1869, vol. xx p. 101.322 • Trans. Path Soc. ” 1858, vol. «. P- 163- hjemorehage. MS £55 following JSo'f t.e“»«lysis of the cans*. of thirty-omm of acute pericarditis :— There was rheumatism in Bright’s ddiseeaSsemdouhtfui, or 'other' form of renal disease in Extension 'of ' inflammation' from adjoining tissues in 20 cases. 10 „ 37 It follows that in examining ft. “ “K.Sl'S? to™" cases of pericardial disease, ^ P even if the symptoms looking to the condition ® ^f’Wcian’s attention to during hfewere not such as to ycharacter 0f Bright's these organs. Considering ° Justified in regarding it as a disease, and its chronic course, we ^nfmation of serous mem- powerfuBy predisposing ca icardilim. Pericardial inflam- hranes, and particularly V^ nvsemia and is sometimes mation is also met with as necrosis of bone, consequent upon other in ^ ^ manifestations of “a otomed. It also occnrs, though rarely, among th. sequelai of scarlatina m children. HiESIOEEHASE. In the exudation nSrifag ^finhloXaH®^hage. sionally meet ^ a 0f mechanical injury, or ofrupture independently of this. onus.3, not so often met with in of the muscular tissue ot the n , When it occurs I this locality as it is in the sac of ^aracto ^ ^ coronary it is due to tlie rupture o 1 -±. t,> o case reported j arteries, or of an aneurism teve blood had formed a cyst, about I by Dr. Ogle,* the ^^f^he visceii layer but to‘which the 1 three inches long, chie j 11t Xn all the cases we have I jESia - ts&zz&rz j tr- “ fort tmriams -- «P- into the pericardium.323 TUIIERCLE. The pericardium does not resemble the other serous membranes, in its relation to tubercle ; for while the meninges of the brain and the peritoneum are constantly found to be the seat of tubercular deposit, this serous sac is remarkably free from it. Louis * has only found evidence of pericarditis three times in phthisis; and he details one case in which some semi-transparent grey granulations were found under the serous lamina of the pericardium, to which he attributes the pericarditis under which the patient was labour- ing. Dr. Hope states that tubercles are sometimes developed in the false membranes of pericarditis; but neither does he himself give any positive evidence to that effect, nor have we succeeded in finding proofs of it elsewhere. In cases of general acute tuberculosis, especially in children, miliary tubercles are sometimes seen on the visceral pericardium. CARCINOMA. Carcinoma affects the pericardium more frequently than tuber- culous disease; it occurs only in connection with a general can- cerous cachexia, and a formation of similar growths in other organs ; the only variety met with is medullary carcinoma. Accord- ing to Rokitansky the cancerous mass spreads itself in the form of an infiltration of the fibrous layer of the pericardium over a large portion of its surface, and presses upon and into the tissue itself where it becomes developed into roundish or flattened or teat-like nodules. This description partly agrees with a case reported by -Ur. Leacock, m which the organ was completely surrounded by a cancerous mass, which did not, however, affect the muscular sub- stance. Malignant growth not unfrequently extends from the mediastinal glands into the pericardial cavity; but many such cases would at the present day be called sarcoma or lympho-sar- coma, rather than cancer, t Several are noticed by Dr. Peacock m the paper just referred to.f Forster observed one case of pri- mitive cancer of the pericardium. A malignant growth of the peri- cardium, reported by Dr. Moxon, was found to be, anatomically asarcowa.§ A fibroid tumour of the pericardium is noticed by Dr thambers.il In some of these cases the morbid growth may oven infiltrate the walls of the heart, from the pericardial surface and project into the cavities. ’ “ Memoirc sur la Pdricardite,” &e., 182G. t in “Trails. Path. Soe.,” 18GH, vol. xx. p 102 S 18H6> v<>1- xvi IT' 99-120, and plate v. rans. Pal h. Hoc.,” 1867, vol. xviii. p. 38 ; Report, hv Hulke and Pm-l,.,. - ,, „ 7“ Medto V,,'ranH' ^ p Hoc”,v«‘-ix- P W. lor another CMtn P'4’’ fl*»- » aledico-Glnrurgieal Review,” October, 1b58.324 free bodies in the pericardium. FATTY DEPOSIT. Tt is not uncommon to meet with an excessive deposit of fat upon and vvithin ^ ETta?“or'Cit neoe»aril^«»ocUM ration of the musculai tibsu ^ ^ hea”tso a8 to separate same time find fat msmuating , y. -ii -ue observed that the muscular fMcic»h tom »e anofte • I "sulcus. “S?t‘raiS»"aS Sear « rcUhou to .he a^ge- ment of the blood-vessels. PNEUM 0 - PERICARDIUM. p™s“nceln| life ^SStiS percussion in the region ., ’, , an(i 0p respiration. In accompanying the movemen s -mortem decomposition of the the majority of cases rt «, due o F^^“7air bas found pericardial Su.d, “™“ some adjacent cavity. Cases o. its way into the pencanuum i . during life rest suPp°sed ** may occur on very insufficient evidence, S ' r)^nn„ tpe present year from the decomposition \ h which had formed (1852) a case of perforation of the msop g>. Mary>s Hospital, adhesions to the pencaidmm, tpe care 0f Dr. Chambers, The patient was a young w ‘ pericardium occurred shortly in whom the admissionof:air “^.P^^ricai-diuiii was found before death through 1 i ’ He post-mortem examina- much distended from hL chcumstance that the tion was made, and it w ^posited between the surfaces of fibrinous layer, which dad Dee P friction sound during ohfe stonmlh hare produced the same condition. free bodies in the pericardium. To complete the subject -which dium, we have yet Jo advert to the P icaT.ditia. He describes assns: r j. »f *■ •“of Ws - . See “ Report of the Path. Soc.,” for 1852-3.FREE BODIES IN THE PERICARDIUM. ■32o almonds, and similar to the latter in shape ; which, he adds, would no doubt have eventually been converted into elastic, tough bodies of fibroid tissue. None of the authors whom we have been able to consult record any similar case; we may therefore assume that the actual occurrence of free bodies is a circumstance of extreme rarity, and the above seems rather to be due to an accidental agglomeration of fibrinous flakes than to any other new produc- tion of tissue. In other cases pedunculated fibrous growths, some- times even calcified, appear to have become detached, by giving way of their peduncle, and thus come to lie free in the cavity of the pericardium. I* “Lectures on Clinical Medicine,” &c. 1815, Lect. xxv. CHAPTER XVIII. the morbid anatomy of the heart. CARDITIS OR MYOCARDITIS. Genuine carditis, ulceration, and abscess of tions of which but few cases are recorded. Of the tormer ur. Latham* details a remarkable instance. It occurred in a boy, aged Lelve yeari who presented all the symptoms of acute cerebral disease ^without any indications of the disorganization found after death ’ No vestige of morbid action was discovered in the brain, but the heart was the seat of the most mtense inflammaLon per- vadin- both the pericardium and muscular structure, ihere was the ordinary evidence of recent pericarditis and when the -heart was itself divided, the muscular fibres were dark-coloured, almost to" blackness loaded with blood, soft, and loose of texture, easily eMily to» by the Augers and atAh. , that of a small pea; towereaU ^seventh volume of the same kind is related by Mi. btanley n me urred of the “ Medico-Chirurgical TransactionsP- 323, is z,is!5S. iss»*£?&££ saiga iv“?iiz8eSrCaoi tb« ^ *~»»". “dNOX-SUPPURATIVE MYOCARDITIS. 327 losing their transverse situation. The amount of exudation or inflammatory material produced is not great, and is chiefly serous; but sometimes, as in the instances just mentioned, true suppura- tion takes place. The pus cells are in this case produced in the interstitial connective tissue between the muscular fibres, and there is no reason to think that the muscular elements themselves parti- cipate in their production. The loss of substance due to inflamma- tion may, if it occur immediately under the surface of the heart wall, tend to a kind of ulceration ; and in this case there is always simultaneous inflammation of the endocardium. If the same process affect the septum ventriculorum, it may lead to actual per- foration. In a case of general hypertrophy of the heart, accom- panied by enormous dilatation of the mitral orifice, and diseased aortic valves, which was exhibited at the Pathological Society in 1847, by Dr. J. B. Bennett, an opening of the size of a quill was found in the ventricular septum; this was surrounded by ulcera- tion, warty roughness, and thickening, and there were distinct traces of inflammation round the opening. Perforation may also result from the opening of an abscess externally, which produces pericarditis and rupture of the heart. Incomplete softening and destruction of the walls of the heart lead to the condition known as aneurism of the heart; that is, to partial dilatation and attenuation of the wall. It is, however, possible for the pus to become incap- sulated, when it either undergoes caseous or calcareous degenera- tion, or else is absorbed altogether. Iu general pyaemia, purulent collections are found in the heart, though not frequently; they do not differ from those which occur in other organs. Other causes sometimes give rise to suppuration of the heart. In a case recorded by Dr. Pye Smith,* this condition seems to have resulted from the breaking up of syphilitic growths, f XOX-.SUPPURATIVE MYOCARDITIS. There is a form of inflammation of the heart substance without suppuration, which, in a chronic form, leads to the changes described in the next paragraph. It is uncertain whether it is ever strictly acute, but when recent, produces the following appearances. The muscular substance is soft, and mottled with yellow patches, which consist not of inflammatory products, but of muscular tissue in a state of colloid or vitrous degeneration, the striation being indistinct, and the fibres atrophied. Around and among the wasted muscular bundles is much vascular nucloated tissue. This process is anatomically comparable to cirrhosis of the liver, and * “Trans. Path. Soo.,” vol. xxi. p. 94. t For other cases of inflammation or abscess of the heart, see Murchisoi tkm'.SSS'*’ 1Sj8> vo1- X1X- p- 193 > Moxon: Ibid. 1869, vol. xx. p. 113 aom. i(j68> vol. p |24 “ Trans. Holmes:328 DEGENERATIONS OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE HEART. bears the same relation to chronic myocarditis that rapid cirrhosis does to chronic. It never occurs without accompanying endo- cardial (and usually) pericardial inflammation, and though doubt- less the first stage of chronic myocarditis, does not very often come under observation. CHRONIC MYOCARDITIS. A much commoner result of myocarditis than suppuration is the formation of fibroid masses. This is very common in the hearts of rheumatic subjects who have suffered from pericarditis or endo- carditis, and depends' upon the production of connective tissue, concurrently with (whether as consequence or cause) the loss of muscular substance from inflammation. It is usually partial or in separate spots or streaks, but is sometimes pretty generally diffused. The parts affected are pale, firm, glistening, and some- times of almost cartilaginous hardness. The microscope shows that they consist of dense fibrous tissue, usually with a super- abundance of nuclei, but sometimes giving evidence of degenerative changes. While this is doubtless the explanation of the fibrous patches usually met with in diseased hearts, there are moie pro- nounced now formations and more general changes of the same kind, which will be considered elsewhere. _ . Myocarditis probably never occurs without inflammation of the external or internal membrane of the heart, except as a consequence of pyaemia. Dr. Wilks attributes to incipient inflammation of the muscular substance certain cases of sudden death in rheumatism. It should be mentioned that the columnae carnete are very liable to be affected with fibroid transformation, and may become altogether converted into fibrous cords; this condition usually accompanies valvular disease. , , , . . „ , Haemorrhage into the substance of the heart is occasionally met with in small spots, in connection with pericarditis; but in cases of genuine cardiac apoplexy, as Oruyeilhier terms effusion ol bloort into the substance of the heart, which must be considered in t e same category as spontaneous rupture of the organ we almost invariably find fatty degeneration at and near the point, which has destroyed the uniform consistency of the organ. DEGENERATIONS OF THE SUBSTANCE OF TnE HEART. Under this head are included fatty degeneration, fibroid de- generation or transformation, and a much rarer condition, granular degeneration or “brown atrophy.” Waxy or amyloid degenera- tion is also met with, though very rarely. ^ b'atty degeneration is a condition ol the musculai ' „ , selves,'which can only be positively recognised by the help ol the microscope.DEGENERATIONS OE THE SUBSTANCE OF THE HEART. 329 The degeneration may be traced through various stages. It commences as an atrophic condition, in which the fibre loses its sharp edges, and the striae, so well seen in the healthy heart, dis- appear. One or more oil-globules successively appear, until the whole fibre is occupied by them; its outline is broken, and in the highest development the fibres appear almost fused together into a confused more or less opaque mass, in which nothing of the original t ssue can be traced. This molecular deposit of oil in the fibre is often accompanied by a generally adipose condition of the organ, and a layer of fat on the surface; but not necessarily so, and we must be careful not to infer that the heart is in a state of fatty degeneration because it is surrounded by adipose tissue. The fat may insinuate itself between the muscular fasciculi and fibres, and yet no change in the latter take place. The large circular fat cell, with its sharp boundary of -J^inch in diameter, when seen under the microscope, occupies the former position, and cannot be mistaken for the minute oil-globule, which varies from a micro- scopic point to -g—ginch, and is confined to the interior of the sarcolemma. The heart affected with fatty degeneration has lost the firm mus- cular appearance which characterizes it in health, and presents a Fio. £9, Specimens of fatty degeneration of the heart. JLHeart fibres taken from the column® earneee of the mitral valves of a vmim. the fatty degeneration was scarcely observable in the ventricle8^ shTvri J fl,T StlU rf'tai.ne<1 ,h(,ir slrire- "* An exf .emc case of fatty degenerrnion Hw£a" ent,re cnI\ver"lon of ,he muscular fibre into oil molecules/ still retefew whoTad lf' i;/eke?./r0m th,e ri*ht ve,lt™'e an’old gentleman with AtedSg .L S^o yeare of htalift *nd was affected Snnff °ri8h’v^ff COlT> ?ithor throughout or limited to indi- knTr\ t}VhT CUt a ."rensy stain is often left on the ’ though the absence of this circumstance must not bo looked330 degenerations of the substance of toe heart. upon as an indication that the heart is not degenerated. The left ventricle and the column* carneae are most liable to be thus diseased, next in order the right ventricle and rmht aunclo, whi e the left auricle is least frequently involved. Dr. Quam, ^ J we are indebted for a clear resume of the whole subject of fattj degeneration of the heart, has found that in twenty-two in which the seat of the disease was expressed, the two ventricles were affected in ten, the left alone in eight, and the right alone in four. Rokitansky describes three forms of fatty degeneration of the heart; the first two are varieties of fat-deposit upon and within the heart, external to the muscular fibre to which we have alluded above' and to which, with Dr. Quam, we would apply the term fatty growth, while the term fatty degeneration should be confined to that change in the muscular fibre which we have just described and which constitutes Rokitansky’s third form The deposit and the degeneration may coincide, but there is no definite relation be- tween the occurrence of the two. The frequency with which fatty degeneration of the heart occurs among the patients that present themselves m a London hospital mav be inferred from the circumstance that Dr. Ogle has met with it in 100 out of 143 post-mortems in which he had noted the micro- «sopic appearances of the organ, a cixcumstance sjffljwjttomj the attention of nosologists upon the heart m order to with more accuracy than we at present can bi ng to b®a^^_ degeneration. Ibis concuuon ui, muscular substance to the same cause as the d™“„erat;Te process the frequent coincidence Canton ’ This coincidence is. heart was first pointed out bj i • ‘ f positive however, not sufficiently constant to of conclusion as to the condition o^^^^^VconLcted with the cornea. Fatty degeneration is , ■ ^ que to some a special diathesis, as scrofula or syphilis, and may be an special poison, as phosphorus. among the effects of Syncope and angina pectoris during life are among » “ Medico-Cliir. Trans.,” vol. xxxiii. p. 121.DEGENERATIONS OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE HEART. 331 fatty degeneration of the heart and diseased coronary arteries; apoplectic effusion into the substance of the organ, rupture, dilata- tion, and aneurism of the heart, are found in constant connection with this affection. It is thus one of the most important causes of sudden death.* Fibroid degeneration, or transformation of the heart substance, usually occurs in cases of hypertrophy. Dr. Wilks has pointed out that it is far more common in the right ventricle than in the 1 left, when thus affected; and that in most cases of hypertrophy of the left ventricle there is no change in the consistency of the walls. While this is doubtless true, we believe it to depend upon the fact ! that so many cases of left-sided hypertrophy are due to some cause outside the heart itself. When this is due to valvular disease, or accompanies endocarditis, or pericarditis, the left ventricle also i may be found much altered in consistency. In this form of dege- : neration the muscular substance is pale, as in fatty degeneration ; but hard and rigid, so that the cavities retain after death the form due to distension. It is also torn with difficulty, and has been described as leathery. Minute examination shows these changes to depend on replacement of the muscular fibres by newly-formed fibrous tissue, so that the condition differs chiefly in its universality : from that previously described as the result of myocarditis. A heart thus affected is evidently as little capable of performing its functions as one in which there is fatty degeneration; and hence this condition also appears to be a cause of sudden death. It is commonly associated with enlargement of the heart; and the ; question will sometimes arise whether the fibroid growth causes the enlargement, producing a false hypertrophy ; or whether it is ■ a further result of the same pathological process as that which has produced the hypertrophy itself. . Granular degeneration, or brown atrophy of the heart substance, is a rare condition; but one of which unquestionable instances sometimes occur. It consists in the deposition of brown particles between the fibrilke of the muscular substance. This seems to : depend originally upon a sort of fatty degeneration, fat being deposited, and then metamorphosed into these brown granules. (Virchow), f Waxy, or amyloid degeneration of the heart substance, is very rarely met with, and only accompanying the same condition in other organs. We have seen but one case. The name waxy, or bacony degeneration, has also been given to the condition which we have described as fibroid. vol j umerouscasc‘i bearing on this subject are noticed in “Trans. Fatli. Soe.,” 1853, t MS. notes of lectures.332 APOPLEXY AND RUPTURE OF THE HEART. Without a knowledge of the changes which have taken place in the tissue, and precede the occurrence of these accidents, it is impossible to offer any rationale for them; but now that weaie acquainted with the fact that the muscular fibre is degenerated at certain parts of, or throughout the organ, it is easy to und^stand that, under given circumstances, requiring an unusual ell ort the heart, the weakest point will yield, and give rise to effusion of blood. There is no essential difference between those cases in which the haemorrhage seems confined to the muscular Wsue and those in which, owing to a laceration of the Pe™ar^uflm and endo- cardium, a passage is° established by which the blood flows into the serous sac. In the latter case we find the pericardium on opening the body, distended with fluid blood, or, if the individual 1ms survived7some time after the accident, the blood is partly coagulate . The rent varies from an inch in length to a nimute orifice frequently runs into the septum, and occasionally we find a accompanying rupture of the column® came®. The ieft ventricle is bv fir the most frequent seat of these disruptions; we find that six or seven cases of spontaneous-rupture of the heart, detailed m the Reports of the Pathological Society of London, occurred in the left ventricle, and only one in the right. An analysis of these cases also shows that the prevailing impression &at is more liable than the posterior to become lacerated, is erroneous, five having occurred on the posterior, and two on the anterior walls of the heart In all there was fatty degeneration, most rnaiked a. different explanation must be sought for, toa“0}int^,7 itseif. of the rupture, which appears to vary as much as the We find that of five cases of this description, m a sss rasas “ the ventricles once. . . instances Rupture of the heart is generally ““g*^Severed from the are, however, recorded m winch the p. ,, cases Nature first shock, and survived for several hours, ‘of a film 0f is found to have made an effort at repair, in - 1 P lymph, exuded between the torn surfaces.333 APOPLEXY AND RUPTURE OF THE HEART, Gangrene of the heart is a subject alluded to by pathologists, i ’.'but it does not appear that any authentic cases of its occurrence are x recorded. Dr. Copland looks upon it as manifestly a post-mortem (alteration, accelerated by a depraved habit of body. We may, : therefore, at once pass to the consideration of two conditions which ■ are very frequent, and which are nearly allied to one another, ( hypertrophy and dilatation of the heart.CHAPTER XLX. hypertrophy op the heart. Tn determining the existence of hypertrophy of the heart we must and, secondly, whether the relative^ ^ ^ mquire into the Nation exiting hetwee^ the walls of the cavity and its capacity ; taken as a ™u^ “ corresponded in their dimensions; there is todication, to assist out judgment. "L»£r»I™»StJ»to.atio„s are act at our d. normal weight of the heart. a, PT)r Peacock * arrived at from the examination of ,98 tS regarded as healti',, and 150 to some tray diseased. a« to 55 years of aSe’^^“the mean difference between the weight- of (avoirdupois weight), t prom these observations 91“Slidtatog estimates “ ”raasaa»“‘‘““'^335 NORMAL DIMENSIONS OF THE HEART. average weight of the heart in males, from 25 to 55 years of age, as 11 oz. 1 dr., and in females as 9 oz. 2. The weight of the healthy heart is greater in persons who die after short periods of illness, and less in those who have sutfered from emaciating or exhausting diseases. Taking this difference into account, the inference is, that in adult males, who have died from acute diseases, or from the effects of accidents, the ordinary weight of the heart is from 9 to 11 oz. avoirdupois, and in those who have died from chronic diseases from 8 to 10 oz. In females the ordinary weight of the heart, in acute cases, may be regarded as from 8 to 10 oz., and in chronic diseases from 7 to 9 oz. Occasionally the weight may fall as low as 5 or 6 oz., in persons of small frame, dying of exhausting diseases; and in powerful men, dying suddenly, or after a short illness, may reach 12 oz., or perhaps even more, without exceeding the limit of health. _ 3. The heart usually increases in weight with the advance in life. This is shown in the following table :— Age. Males. Females. Nos. Weighed. Mean Weight. Nos. 'Weighed. Mean Weight. 15 to 20 20 to 23 30 to 40 40 to 60 50 to 60 60 to 70 9 27 31 9 15 3 oz. dr. 8 2§ 9 0A 9 7g? 9 Hi 9 12 10 13J 9 21 19 5 6 oz. dr. 8 lg 8 1"* 8 13fg 9 3 9 7J It is not, however, very clear to what period of life this increase extends, and whether in very advanced age there is not, as is shown to be the case with the brain, a more or less marked decbne in weight. These results agree with those obtained by Bizot, for the dimensions of the heart. NORMAL DIMENSIONS OF THE nEART. The following table, from Dr. Peacock,* gives the most im- Dr- Peacock’s measurements were'taken from forty-two healthv oro-ans nn/l v. Sn>il°Ufr Trttt and PuJm9naf? artery are cut across about in inch above neir origin; the ventricles opened by incisions passing from near Die mai.. , .nonary "nHces to the apiece ; the auricles laid open transversely • without*tn,° he valves or their attachments. The capacity of ho oriZSrll ,od hJtt0,uchll1g' graduated halls, numbered from one to fifteen^ . SmtESfaS£ '"f8’ one to sixty-three lines. When the orifices and valves havXe“ Sa nhfed T0 2ty' » e laid own and the length of the ventricular cavities measuredfromtheatLl "^ ‘ ®e sortie and pulmonic valves to the apex 'lhe th cW,;= Ii ii, attachment measured at three points, near the base whereXwaSs'336 NORMAL DIMENSIONS OF THE HEART. portant measurements of the healthy heart, according to the best observers:— M. Bizot. | Dr. Reid. Dr.Ranking. Dr. Peacock. 1 1 Males. tn o a a; pH . 1 o 'S ' s Females. Males. Females. Males. K S I fH In. In. In. In. In. In. In. In. : Circumference of the heart .. •• 812 43ft. 3ft i 5ft Growth of the right ventricle „ left 4ft 4^4 | Length of cavity of right 1 3it 3 •• •• •* 31i Length of cavity of leftl ventricle * J 3* 221 ±5 Thickness of walls of right 1 ventiicle • • • [ 55 £s ft 45 * +6 «1 a « Thickness of walls of leftl is a hi ii hi Thickness of septum u it a A 55 it hi a I Circumference of right an- \ riculo-ventricular aperturej 4J2 4il 5* 4ft 4ji *43. m ! 3fi Circumference of pulmonic 1 aperture ■/ i Circumference of left aun-1 culo-ventricular aperture .. j 2J| 2|i 3* 3ft 222 4* 322 4* 311 ' 3if 4ft 4 Circumference of aortic aper-1 m 2JI 3* 3 1 222 j %+* 3ft A progressive increase in the dimensions of the heart, from infancy upwards, had been demonstrated by Bizot, whose results aregivemin the following table. The increase of the Wt, bo* in weight and size, with advanced age. is apparently a true byp tronhv and is probably connected with the progressive rigidity of thl arteries, which is a part of senile decay, and which mu t increase the arterial resistance. Also, up to a certain point, the wPiVht of the bodv and with this the mass of blood, increases. that from both these causes the heart is called upon for more w- all the dimensions of the heart, from mfarmj ^ jg a fi,U- point between the base and apex, andL near bet^wn ^‘fh^b^a^apex, and is n-iven here.) The septum is cut across halt way oei metins of a graduated measured across its centre. Dr. Sibson mea *ures n t observers simply measure cone, which is pushed through as far as it will go. Most o the margin of the oriiice after it is opened.FORMS OF HYPERTROPHY. 337 a thickness proportionate to that in the male heart of the same a«-e. Mr. Bizot’s measurements are taken vertically, from the apex°to the base, round the base at the junction of the auricles and ven- tricles, and at the thickest part of the left ventricle.* Males. Females. | Age. Number of subjects examined. Length of heart m Paris lines. Width of heart in Paris lines. Thickness of heart in Paris lines. Age. Number of subjects examined. • Length of heart in Paris lines. Width of heart in Paris lines. Thickness of heart in Paris lines. 1 to 4 6 to 9 10 to 15 16 to 29 30 to 49 5u to 79 7 3 3 18 23 19 22A 3l| 31 42 & 43.7!, 45fJ 27 33 37 45$ 47$ 52$ 10$ 12$ 14 17$ 17$ 18* 1 to 4 5 toO 10 to 15 16 to 29 30 to 49 50 to 89 •8 10 5 14 27 19 22f 2o§ 291 38f 41* 42$ 25J 29 31J 42* 44* 46* 10i 11* 12| 17r 14* 18* The Paris line = 083 of an English inch = 2 25 mm English mch = 27 mm. The Paris inch = 1'065 FORMS OF HYPERTROPHY. Hypertrophy has been described as occurring in three forms, to ■ winch Bertin was the tirst to draw attention, and his classification has been adopted by subsequent writers. In the first, which is termed simple hypertrophy, the walls of the heart are thickened, * while the cavities retain their normal dimensions; the second' excentnc or aneurismal hypertrophy, presents an augmentation,’ Doth ot the lumen of the cavities and of the substance of their panetes; and in the third, which has received the name of con- centric hypertrophy, the former is reduced, while the latter is alone increased. The last variety probably has no existence as a morbid condition, but is, according to the showing of Cruveilhier and Dr ,bu'*d, a post-mortem effect, an evidence, simply, of the powerful tonic contraction of a robust heart. The former writer observed a occulTe(i in almost all persons decapitated by the guillotine and the latter has pointed out that in all concentrically hyper- trophied hearts the ventricle may bo easily dilated by means of the an<l always dilates of itself, when the rigor mortis noes ,1 ihe sjmplo and excentnc forms, then, are the two which done constitute actual cardiac disease. “ Mf-moires do la Socidtd d’Ob3ervation,'’ tom. i. p. 262.338 forms of hypertrophy. * “ Medico-Chir. Trane.,” vol. xxxm. The left ventricle in either form of hypertrophy is the part that is most frequently affected ; next in order the right ventricle, and, lastly Ion go intervallo, the auricles. There is not necessanlj a relation between the increased thickness ot the walls of a cavitj and of the columns camese ; the former may he themselves onh thickened in some parts, while in others they retain their normal sSe and again we occasionally find the trabecula, much enlarged while the proper walls present hut little variation. Hypertrophy heart necessarily alters, more or less, the relation between thethoracic viscera, a point of importance to the practitioner, smd So ertes rise to modifications in the form and situation of the organ, fromC and farther to game cbamber from distant tr-s Afera fiffi ff£ SfatlyTncilsed (to tweh^or fourteen Shes)? iUothHese cases morbid product hut that ot an m^ ^ ^ tban lasual, and its fibre, the musculai tis hypertrophy may be the result consistency is ’ or adegeneration iay have been set upon of a degeneia 1 ’,, hypertrophy having been established ; the organ, subsequent to.the hypertropny ^ yell(wisb or the colour may then b consistency is generally increased, fawn-coloured sp^ e find the characters but sometimes reduced. In ttoiorm^ than usual; °f voiuntary musculaie andgthe edges have a sharper the tiansveise ' tl characters are more or less altered, outline ; in the latter these characters^ o alterafion. An and we mee wi s f f tty degeneration collected by Dr. Uunin. analysis ot tne cases m ^ •> ,??. f tbp heart accompanying tins shows that the prevailing secondary we are state is one of hypertrop j , ,, v jt appears very probable that not prepared to determine ’ r^ilt of vnrioii.CAUSES OF HYPERTROPHY. 339 four the dimensions are not stated; in one there was dilatation without hypertrophy, and only in one was the heart decidedly smaller than usual. Perhaps more common than fatty degeneration in a hyper- trophied heart is fibroid induration, presenting the characters before described. Causes of Hypertrophy.—These are essentially of two kinds : “in the one kind,” to use Dr. Watson’s terms, “ there is some mechani- cal obstruction to the exit of the blood from one or more of the cavities; a constricted state of the orifices is the most common condition. In the other kind, without any such mechanical drain or bar to the fluid, there is something to hinder the free and sufficient play of the organ, an adhering pericardium, it may be, or malposition of the heart. The causes of hypertrophy may’ therefore, be situated within the heart itself, or without and beyond it; but in all those cases in which the effect of the hindrance or obstacle is to detain the blood in one or more chambers, the hyper- ! trophy will be likely to be accompanied by dilatation, and gene- i rally speaking the hypertrophy and dilatation result from disease 1 111 some Part, which lies beyond the affected chamber in the order of the circulation.” The largest hypertrophied heart, however which we have met with was one of the latter class, in which no such obstacle could be discovered. The specimen, which was taken | §?m a nnddle-aged man, is preserved in the St. George’s Hospital 1 Museum; and weighed, when removed from the body, five pounds; the left ventricle is enormously hypertrophied, and very much di- lated at the same time, but beyond this increase of size in the heart, no morbid appearances are perceptible or on record; the valves are i ail perfectly healthy. In hypertrophy from obstruction, the causes will naturally be ' different for the two sides of the heart. Thus obstruction of the . aorta, by adhesion or other affection of the valves, causes the left • ventricle to work at greater tension, and at the same time keeps it constantly distended, so that it becomes both hypertrophied and enlarged. Aortic regurgitation by keeping a large quantity of Mood in the chamber produces the same effect; and so, though not for the same reason, does mitral regurgitation. Again, simple hypertrophy without dilatation of the left ventricle, may be pro- . auced by obstruction in the distant parts of the arterial system; and this very frequently happens in cases of disease of the kidneys’ a condition, which in some manner not yet quite explained, is con- nected with an increase of tension in the arteries. In so far as this is the case the effect is evidently analogous to that of imme- diate aortic obstruction. The increase of arterial tension which accompanies some forms of kidney disease, has been accounted mr in several ways which we cannot discuss here- but no explanation is perfectly satisfactory, and hence some persons havo Buppo„ed that the hypertrophy of the left ventricle and the otW oncomitant changes have no causal connection with one anotherDILATATION OF THE HEART. 340 but are the effects of some general error of growth or develop- ment This does not, however, explain those cases where hyper- trophy is confined to the left ventricle; since a spontaneous developmental process would affect all parts alike. Aneurisms sometimes cause hypertrophy of the left ventricle, or at least aCThePlSt auricle often participates in the enlargement of the ventricle, but hardly seems to be primarily affected except in mitral obstruction, where it is first dilated and then hypei- tX <Hvnertrophy of the right side is far less common: partly because valvular affections are rarer on that side. Obstructions m the capillary circulation through the lungs are the most frequent cause • thus this form of hypertrophy occurs in chronic bronchitis, empyema, induration of the lung, &c. We may also point out a fact which we have not seen noticed elsewhere -that curvature of the spine, whether angular or lateral, is often associated vnth hypertrophy of the right ventricle. This probably arises from the diminished*capacity of the thorax, leading to imperfect restora- Ob“wio7mitral orifice also lead, l. dilatation, and sometimes hypertrophy of the right side, by hinder- ,-no. |V,e of blood through the lungs. . An undeniable influence must be also attributed to mflammatoij affections of the endo- and pericardium, as well as to chronic inflammatory conditions of the muscular tissue of the heart, pro- ducffTfibroid patches. The manner in which pericarditis gives rise to it is bv causing partial or general adhesions, and thus; prevent- ing the contraction of the muscular tissue, Endocarmhs most commonly gives rise to hypertrophy by inducing changes in the valvular apparatus, and thus affording impediments to the sanguineous current. dilatation of tiie heart. TTvuertrophy is, as we have said, often accompanied by dila- i + nt?- but the latter condition may occur without any change 1 fte tic walls; or there mar be actual tbmumg of tllT?'1‘^ovfrr.Tihv with dilatation corresponds to the condition to rtidfthe oldlr authors applied the term active dilatation; while n : associated with a diminution of the fleshy panetes, was dilatation, a t Tho tw0 conditions have also been known as p Corvisart, active and passive aneurism of and the partial foim.DILATATION OF THE HEART. 341 * “ Medico-Chir. Trans.,” vol. xxxv. General dilatation without any attenuation is very rarely mot with, though sometimes in a distended auricle the conditions mav be very nearly balanced. Dilatation, with thinning of the walls is the most common form, and seems to depend upon some degenera- ItTs produ“ng weakness in the muscular substance. It is thmefore essentially an atrophic condition. E ,diIat®d beart f ay be attenuated to an extreme ■’ he thickest part of the left ventricle maybe reduced to two bnes m diameter, while at the apex the muscular substance may have disappeared entirely, so that the endocardium and peri- c.udiurn are in apposition; at the same time, we find a corres- nni'.'!/dlmiI1Ut)'0n the. thickness of the column*. In one l td e.ls a characteristic difference between hypertrophy and ^tation .independently of the nature of the lesion. This is in egaid to the part affected. The left ventricle is most frequently ' c?mSlvWin ^yP^Phy. white we meet with dilatation most commonly in the right ventricle. It has been stated that the : wHiVoTfind T\VTM° dilatation- males to hypertrophy; we do not find this to be the case. On analyzing the ninety-two cases of heart-disease collected and reported in the “Medico Chirurgical Transactions ” by Dr. Barclay,* with a view todeler - ^4 0cLiTedqrn1e°m’lWG ^ °.f fourteen cases of dilatation, hiertronhv &nd °lght m malesi °£ sixteen cases of nypertropby alone, seven were women and nine men • of fortv femaW8 dypei'trop}ly combined with dilatation, seventeen were takes pkee more in ' ^ J)]latatl<m- as Dr. Hope remarks, tmrwT tL ! ln,tile transverse than m the longitudinal direc- heart an unusnabv e8R alldi r accordirig1y communicates to the such m r sl)bencal form, the apex being rounded off in ;° scarcely distin^iishable. . tronhvP ff tS the aurlcles more frequently than hyper- diseased iSl?1’ WVrm8t b(J careful in not hastily assuming a tension “rr?dltl0n’ where its semblance is owing merely to dis- tens.on. This is particularly the case with the right auride appoal's much dilated> owing to the accu- morfis T°/fbl00d taklnS place on this side of the heart in articulo anno If reirl0vmp the contents the cavity presents its norm , appearance, we consider it to have been merely mSanio-.nvT J Sf,oin0,„SLh“rt is - Partial Dilatation or Aneurism, of the Heart 1342 ANEURISM OF THE HEART. the diseased endocardium, and adjoining muscular tissue, through which the^ Mood passes; and the power of resistance being dnm- Si at the point, a pond. is establiahed a tanged nwg£ « remote effect of an inflammatory condition of the mves SSS'eoSfe %Z8XiJ-& pitting the pressure of the blood, and a^oiroumscribed “f “fh™ „f The aneurism vanes much in size, from that i. ^ the apex of <%^iS®£2l£SES point. It appear, a previous mflammatoij conmuou au in manv instances that the ^^^J^^neutralizinl the1 evil effects which might be expected.6 to ^result from a W can STS SSftl describes it, and wheie ^ I nrmous dilatation of both ventricles Thus we have seen a case of , of the left ventricle was without hypertrophy, in which the t 1842.62). thinned to the size of a s^Pe^® ( .j olftarv hut there may be Partial aneurisms are not ***^»Mg intercommimicAte. two or three, whlf ’ft veSlePwe° find its base, and, third Next to tho apex of the b be thus affected; m in order, the septum ventn^Joium liable ^ rf &e heart. ' the latter case the bulging is towaids 1 of the septum. Considering that there is a point ^ to maintain the at which normally there is no muscular •• Report of the Pathological Society,” 184S 9, P- S9-ANEURISM OP THE HEART. 343 separation of the two cavities, we should be led to expect the occurrence of aneurism more frequently at this point; but in ordinary circumstances the balance of the circulation suffices to prevent this result. When this form of aneurismal dilatation Pm. 81. Aneurism of the left ventricle, formed by dilatation of a circular portion of the anterior wall, in a girl aged nineteen. The pouch was filled with a laminated coagnlum; its mouth was narrow, round and smooth, and its panetes consisting apparently of endo- and pericardium, with small deposits ofa soft yellowish substance between them. The disease had probably com- menced eighteeen months before death. 1 J (St. Bartholomew’s Museum. Series xii. No. 53.) I!' extends to such a degree that an opening and communication between the ventricles results, we have to deal with what Dr. Thurnam has termed the varicose aneurism; it is a condition analogous to a congenital state, not unfrequently met with, in which the ventricular septum is more or less defective. ' The contents of the cardiac aneurisms vary; we find in them fluid blood, more or less decolorized, sanguineous coagula, or laminated fibrinous deposits, resembling those found in arterial aneurisms, and presenting similar microscopic appearances. The walls may become ossified. * The male sex and mature age offer a greater proneness to aneurism of the heart than the female sex and youth The pro portion with regard to sex is about 1 to 3. Hasse states that of forty-seven cases thirty-five were men and twelve women • and of forty-two cases, ten referred to individuals under thir’tv and thirty-two to older persons. 5W* ““ dC3CribCd bylIr- ATD0tt- “Trana- ***■ 8oe,” 1868, vol.344 ATROPHY OF THE HEART. In introducing the subject of ddatation ^e obse^ed that it wa* essentially an atrophic condition, Atrophy olt^;lie‘1| met with in the shape of a mere reductionl of " J result of wasting disease or as a congenita ’ll- ' • t m cases recorded by Burns probably belong to the latter varmty; 1 one instance he found the heart of an adult as-nailf as that of a new-born infant and in another the heart of a kinaie, agea twenty-six was no larger than that of a child of six years. Bouil- laud describes a case of a woman of sixty-one imnute ^, w o re of acute peritonitis, in whom the heart was a third smaller than the normal condition, or about the size of the J^^nted^milk ten or twelve. The surface was furrowed and presented milk 9nots the remains of former pericarditis; the cavity oi tne ien ventricle was scarce large enough to contain a its parietes were only three lines m thickn • ^strated bv is a uniform diminution in the size of the hear ^ heart i^ the the following measurements given by Bizot of the heart adult Males. Females. 1 O ® 3 o c; o «♦- • C X o Age | 16 to 79 years. mgth of he lines. R c «g4= 0 5 3 oA Thickness i heart linos Age 16 to 89 years. «M « c o Ho a s yj, c ~ cS-e £ ~ I - CJ is* X - X .— c. — 6 4* 5 Hi | 67 Phthisical .. 42* 47* l&ii — 291 41* 15* 65 Non-phthisical 46s1! 505? | 18Jf — 43 16* A heart from a woman, aged forty-seren, win* s&Sr m. %vhe JftaJSfi have died of phthisis is less ■ , from that cause is not ^ariTS ^eSo^S^e,di* from other chronic affec- tions, unconnected with disease of the lungs. . “.IHmoires Re in S^i«« d’OHc^nn ”^l i. P «T. * Church: “Trans. Path. Soc., v°i. xlx v345 ADVENTITIOUS PRODUCTS. The new growths met with in the heart substance are fibrous or connective tissue masses, tubercle, cancer, and syphilitic growths. Cystic parasites also occur. New growths of connective tissue sometimes occur in a discrete form as well as in the form of general induration already described. : Several such cases are recorded. In one of which an account is given in the Transactions of the Pathological Society, sudden death i occurred in a man supposed to be perfectly healthy, and the heart ' was found to contain numerous masses of fibrous tissue replacing 1 the muscular tissue.* In this,, as in other cases,! it has been ■ suggested that such growths are syjihilitic; but positive evidence 1 has always been wanting. Undoubted syphilitic growths have l been observed, they may exceed a hazel nut in size, and in a case i recorded by Oppolzer, appeared to cause rupture of the heart. They may also, as already stated, lead to suppuration. Tubercle is very rarely observed in the heart; when it occurs it i is usually associated with tubercle of the pericardium, in cases of . general tuberculosis. Cancerous growths are not common ; the best account of them is ■ to be found in a paper by Dr. Peacock,! in which he has analyzed : forty-five recorded cases of the disease. As the older accounts are defective in point of histology,, it is probable that many of these would not now he described as cancer. Only two of these ■ were cases of primary cancer of the heart without jiarticipation of any other organ. In five more the disease appeared to occupy other organs simultaneously, while in eight it spread to the heart 1 from adjacent parts, such as the mediastinal glands. This form of . growth is less uncommon than the former; it often comes under ■ the anatomical description of sarcoma rather than cancer. In about half the cases the disease was secondary to cancerous growth elsewhere. The growth assumed the form of “cancerous infiltra- tion ” in a few instances, but in the majority there were distinct tumours. The seat of diseaso was generally'the right auricle and ventricle, either alone or in conjunction with the left auricle and ventricle. The form of cancer is described as being encephaloid in about half the cases; scirrhus and melanosis occurred in a few, while in others the species of cancer is not distinguished. Ossific deposits are recorded, but they seem invariably to proceed ' from the endocardium ; and we shall return to the subject in con- nection with the diseases of this membrane. Both Corvisart and Hope give cases of portions of the heart being converted into car- tdage ; but there is little doubt that if these cases had been sub- * Dr. Whipham : “Trans. Path. Soc,” 1870, vol. xxi p 115 + “Trans. Path. Soc.,” 1888, vol. xix. p. 108, plate iv . Ha's 4 6 anil « i "Trans. Path. Soc,” 1885, vol. xvi. p 99. ’ P ’ 6’ IUia 6‘ V.346 “Report of Pathological Society,” 1847-8, p. 225. ADVENTITIOUS PRODUCTS. jected to microscopic examination, the tissue would have proved fibrous rather than, cartilaginous. , . Parasites are very uncommon, but cysticercus and echinococcus- cysts have occurred. A well-marked instance of the latter was presented to the Pathological Society by Mr. “ 18tM“ the preparation is still preserved m the Museum of the London Hospital.* In this case no trace of the entozoon was discovered in other viscera. A remarkable case in which a cyst containing hydatids was found in the substance of the heart, is rerarde l a i delineated by Mr. Evans in the seventeenth volume of theM^ co- Ohirurgical Transactions. It occurred m an unmarried female about forty years of age, who, during the wintei precedinc e death, hadbeen subject to palpitation and angina pectons^ cavity of the pericardium was found to be coated with a layer of coa"ulable lymph over a small extent of its front surface, th. apex of the heX was lost in a considerable tumour, ^ elongation of the heart itself, and covered on all sides by pen eardrum The new growth was found to project into the cayit of the right ventricle, was smooth, globular and about three mches in diameter. It contained numerous hydafads from the sme ot a nea to a pigeon’s egg ; their mterstices being filled up by a sott, curd like fellow substance. The hydatids were precisely the same as thole found in the liver. The trichina spiralis has not been met with in the heart.CHAPTER XX. MORBID ANATOMY OF THE ENDOCARDIUM. It has required the multiplied observations of numerous labourers in the field of pathology to establish the true nature and importance of endocardial affections : Laennec and J. P. Prank were among the first to draw attention to inflammatory conditions of the endo cardium, but we owe the more correct appreciation of the subject to Bouillaud and Hope. The pathology of the endocardium is as significant in regard to its primary, as it is with regard to its secondary, lesions. The membrane is analogous to that lining the blood-vessels ; it consists of a layer of epithelium, between which and the muscular fibre of the heart there is a layer of connective tissue ; it is in the latter that blood-vessels ramify, and through them the nutrition of the surface-laminse becomes affected, in dis- ease as well as by the direct influence of the blood contained in the cavities of the heart. It is necessary to bear this double relation in mind, as, without a due perception of these facts, we shall find it difficult to harmonize our general knowledge of morbid changes with the apparent exceptions that endocardial disease brings to our notice. A careful examination of the endocardium is necessary, before we determine positively that the appearances we find are due to pathological alterations; the earlier observations lose much of their value from post-mortem staining having been mistaken for inflammatory reddening. When the change of colour, which, naturally, is of the palest white and translucent, is due to inflam- mation, the redness cannot be washed off, being, in fact, situated beneath the epithelium, nor is it rapidly destroyed by maceration • the membrane is pulpy and thickened, and in' an advanced state’ further products of inflammation are found beneath or upon the membrane. Where the redness is the result of mere imbibition wo usually find the blood in the cavity fluid. The later the post ’ mortem examination is made after death, and the warmer the weather at the time, the more likely are we to find the linine- membrane of the heart and arteries stained with blood. The redness of imbibition is darker in proportion to the period theENDOCARDITIS. 318 blood is in contact with the parietes of a cavity, and for this reason it is observed, as pointed out by Hasse,* in the following descend- ing order : darkest in the right auricle, paler in the right ventricle, with the exception of the valves of the pulmonary artery, which are as deeply coloured as the auricle; still paler in the left auricle, whilst the left ventricle often retains quite its natural tint, except that the aortic valves are darker. In the great vessels, the posterior surface is strikingly dark, in comparison with the anterior. _ We rarely have an opportunity of seeing endocarditis in its first stage. Eokitansky and Hope describe inflammatory redness of the endocardium as mottled. Dr. Dope states it to be less cha- racterized by streaks, patches, isolated unstained spots, and abrupt edges, than non-inflammatory imbibition. Another change is that of "opacity of the lining membrane. This alteration in the appear- ance of the endocardium also changes it in other respects, it loses its glaze and becomes dull, relaxed, milky, and velvety. In rare cases, an adhesion has been found effected between opposite points of the parietes. When the inflammatory process extends to the valves, the consequent change m their relation to the blood current, gives rise to those physical signs which are of so much value in the diagnosis of cardiac affection. It has been supposed that inflammation of the endocardium must be like that of the pericardium or other serous membranes, accom- panied by the production or “exudation” of lymph on its free surface; and that it is rarely or never to be found here only because the current of blood constantly washes it away. On the other hand, it has been said that the endocardium itself is without vessels, being nourished by the current of blood within its cavity. and therefore exudation, in the ordinary sense, is impossible. Some authorities have carried this objection so far as to maintain that inflammation of the endocardium is itself impossible, tins question has led to a great deal of controversy into which we can- not enter here; but it may be laid down that no exudation of flbrin or production of inflammatory lymph on the endocardial surface has ever been proved to take place ; while on the other hand changes are observed m the endocardium, to which uo other name than that of inflammation can be applied. It has now been shown that there is beside the inflammation of the sub-endocardial structures which produces the phenomena already described, a multiplication of the connective-tissue cells of the inner coat, which gives rise to the appearance or a deposit or exudation. Endocarditis affects the valves far more commonly than any other part; so much so, that when we speak of endocarditis wg 2-enerallv mean tin affection of tbo \ alvcs. » i The results of endocardial inflammation are frequently °bsCTV« in tho aortic and mitral valves as a consequence of rheumatism. * “ An Anatomical Description of the Diseases of the Organs of Circulation, Soc. Ed., p. 128.349 ENDOCARDITIS. They are characterized by a row or fringe of translucent nodules along the line of apposition of the valves. When quite recent they have a close resemblance to the normal corpora Arantii seen ou the semilunar valves ; but are very numerous. These nodules or beads are now known to be formed in the first place by a hyperplastic growth of the connective tissue of the valve itself • they readily cause the precipitation upon them of fibrin from the blood, and the new growths thus enlarged form the villous excrescences which are called vegetations. These will be further considered below. Siippuration.—Ii the presence of lymph on the inner surface of the heart has never been satisfactorily established, it follows a iortiori, that we still less frequently meet with a purulent effusion : resulting from endocarditis. The loosening of the tissue, the ' want ol polish, and the felt-like character of the endocardium are sometimes very strongly marked in the centre of inflamma- tion and hence lacerations frequently occur. In these cases a • purulent product mixed with the blood may be found infil- trated into the tissue, if not at the surface of the endocardium ’ whilst abscesses are occasionally found to have spread themselves over a various extent of surface below the endocardium, in the • firi Si“7vfs°iuso"1“strata'deep “iie » of Endocarditis.-^ most important of these are-(l) Ulceration, (2) Fibrous thickening, (8) Dilatation, and (4) Em- ention. f °nf, °f the e£fecte of endocarditis is ulceration, it is met with on the parietes of the heart, but more uequently on the flaps of the valves, where it gives rise to perfora- tion and rupture. Perforation of the septum vontriculorum occa- I rlLrT tS thlS Cal,1S0- # A fr0e communication may thus be established, or the muscular wall may be completely destroyed but an exudation of fibnne having taken place on the^distal side’ the intermingling of the contents of the two cavities be prevented’ Jlceration and suppuration commonly give rise to pymmia which s due both to the mingling with the blood of some fever-produc- l and blocking of distant capillaries or small > arteries with masses detached from the heart. Chronic ulcerative endocarditis is a form which deserves In bo specially distinguished, since it may during life produce the gptoms merely of a chronic pymmiaf such as repeated rigors fc'gh temperature, and what are called “typhoid” svmntn™!’ It commonly occurs on the left side of the heart butt struction of‘if ufffctlnf^he t^icusPid valve, and causing ^b! blSs branches of the pulmonary artery with hcomorrhagic It is, however, scmetimes difficult or impossible to >1110 heart affection ia the cause or the coJ^Z, of Z geS • “ Trans. Path. Soo.,” vol. vi. p. 143.ENDOCAKDITIS. 350 blood-poisoning,* and there is no doubt that the latter is sometimes tbe ca«e,t true suppuration of the valves being found. Other results of endocarditis are thickening and induration. Sometimes the whole inner membrane of one or more ^itmg jg white and opaque, a phenomenon which is set down to chronic inflammation. In other cases limited pat<*es J^umbon and thickenin'* are seen, about which it may be doubtful vhcthei the} are evidence of a chronic change, or an acute process which happened some time previously. Eokitansky describes white Hatches under the name of tendinous spots, as a sort of cicatrices resulting from inflammation of the endocardium and adjacent parts ofSthe muscular tissue. These patches are often seen in the unoer part of the wall of the left ventricle, near the aortic valves, and especially in cases of aortic regurgitation They are eome- times membranous and not unlike valves It has been thought tint friction of the regurgitant stream of blood might have some- thin o- to do with their causation, but the explanation is plainly inadequate. Their production appears to depend upon two oxcum- ,L ^ . n i. n o-eneral chronic inflammation by which tne “o.fbtoTsZ&mSl and partly detached from the snb- inner coar ueoonie m0Veable upon it; and secondly, upon the lotion of the regurgitant stream of blood looselv attached membrane into ripples or folds, which hnaUy become rigid and thus form membranous expansions or fibrous ridges. These surfaces are sometimes shaggy or covered with '•fiSiS' aTheart is also a ,-esult of endocarditis, though nerhans not unless the muscular substance participate m the S&Sa. It may be partial, producing a cardrac «» « a general, in distant parts of the arterial system, rcjth l^paS^the O. »f .be ** tight then on the left side. . , . j7nnrt A frequent concomitant Coagulation of Blood vn i '. ,coagUlation, during of endocarditis, according o oi'inn'inthe clot of now blood- life, of the blood, and tbe organization, in the clot, oi - ‘‘Trans. Pa&^oc.,”vi.tWB, p.151 ^ p. 76, records two such cases. t SS ou Kwhousw.COAGULATION OP BLOOD IN THE HEABT. 351 vessels. This occurrence is now believed to depend not on endo- carditis, but on other causes imperfectly understood. It is how- ever, not the less important. The coaguJa formed by inflammation were described by Bouillaud as colourless, elastic, and glutinous and closely resembling the huffy coat of inflammation, or false membranes themselves. The symptom by which Bouillaud recog- nized this occurrence before death was a want of accordance between the pulse and the heart in point of force; the heart presenting evidence of violent excitement and action, while the pulse was small and evanescent. Gluge * describes organized fibrinous coagula under the name of heematoma, and gives an inter- esting description, with the minute anatomy of the clot of a case whmh occurred in a female, aged fifty-two. The left auricle was filled with a red tumour, surrounded by a delicate membrane, in the mtenor of -which he distinctly traced capillary vessels form- mg a retiform plexus. Similar instances may be also found in the records of the Pathological Society, and in Dr. Hodgkin’s Catalogue of Guy s Hospital Museum. ° The surface in such cases is found more or less intimatelv connected with the endocardium, while the interior of the clot may, in its turn, be undergoing further changes of an inflam- matory or degenerative character. The fibrine is seen to be breaking up into a granular condition ; exudation or inflammation corpuscles and fibro-plastic cells may be exhibited by the micro- scope. This sometimes gives rise to a substance almost exactlv lesembhng pus to the naked eye, but the microscope will show well-maiked differences. The elements seen are mostly atrophic and degenerated leucocytes, and even if cells which individuallv resemble pus-ceffs are found, they are not in so great numbers as bae- fill 1 tenPUS' .„bometlmes the cl°t is converted into a mere bag filled with punform material. These coagulations verv often ofLaTnnec.8 ' f°m’ COnstltut“g vegetations globuLl Dntmction of Ante-mortem Coaqula.—The older uatbnlno-^+o attnbuted a much greater importance to KS l nheVeTed I16™’ !,ol3T1’ in the heart, than they now obtain’ It !isgf n°l theU being leSai'hed as the immediate cause of death’ nnrr p}' “ rareJ cases that we ehan be justified in looW upon them as products formed during life • in the maiorit.v instances they arc merely the first evidence of the arrest of dSvy’menhfe inrr■ lnflrces of metamorphoses of • caJ • VVhen formed during the agonv, or alter rWV, +l “ no adhesion to the panotls; the polypusis moulded ’to T cavity which contains it, and a straw-coloured fibrinrma i ^ “vests a blood clot, similar to the buflV coat ^ coagnlum of blood obtained by venesection. The clearest rf16 tmction is, however, afforded by the manner in which She con-" * “ Atlas der Patliologischen Azmloroie,” Lieferuug nCOAGULATION OF BLOOD IN TIIE HEABT. 352 stituents of tlie clot itself are arranged. If the red corpuscles are uniformly distributed through the fibrinous network, so that the whole resembles an ordinary clot formed out of the bod}, its appearance supplies no reason for thinking that it was formed before death If, on the other hand, the constituents are sepa- Jated we must look at the manner in which they are arranged, ci 5 • fiaaf thorp is a layer of yellow fibrine in that part « W*" *»*> “-PPcrmort. and that the lower parts contain red corpuscles, the arrange ment is evidently the work of gravitation, as in the buffj Tat which sometimes forms in the bleeding basin after yene- .• i there is no around for supposmg the coagu.a tfotTo^ave been 'ante-mortem. On the offier hand we some- times find white and yellow masses, composed of fibrin alone, while the coloured elements of the blood are found in other par,s, Jz fm-med durin- life, unless they have existed long enough for organization, In these respects they resembles suppuration ab . . inS- Another important are strictly compaia e yyben coagulation takes place point is the POBition of tfie c^ots. J ^ Jrrent during life it m consequence of retaraam w d current is naturally will always be , m^ Vg ^^^dtto.ppeu^ges of slowest; i.e., th p most fr ntly> the appendage of the auricles—and, as of the ieft ventricle, among the the right auricle and t P, • ts they may, by the deposi- muscular trabeculae. T +1F v tbe whole of the cavity, tion of successive layers, spr y roughness or alteration It should also be remembered will cause of the endocardium, as of the condition of the coagulation on its sui » I j^ r t0 the researches of Sf S th, of the blood.CHAPTER XXL DISEASES OP THE VALVES OF THE HEART. 1 The estimates of different authors with regard to the influonco e exerted by inflammation in producing valvular disease, have varied c considerably. Bouillaud attributes nearly all changes occurring in the valves, such as altered consistency and form, fibrinous con- i cretions, calcareous and ossific deposits, to inflammatory action, • terming them the third stage of the inflammatory process ; while 1 Rokitansky, and many with him, are of opinion that they are only in part the product of endocarditis, but that the majority are the r result of slow changes of nutrition, not connected with inflamma- tory action. The most manifest direct results of endocarditis are white opacity and thickening of the endocardium and the lining ' membrane of the valves, and adhesion between the latter. These - adhesions are most commonly found in the aortic valves, and this ■desion must necessarily constitute a permanent and very serious obstacle to the circulation, in its turn giving rise to further dis- organization and derangement, such as hypertrophy and dilatation, dyspnoea and anasarca. In dealing with this species of malforma- tion it is often very difficult to determine whether it is congenital, or the result of disease, especially -when, subsequent to adhesion, an absorption of the partition separating the two pouches is " effected, and the double valve thus converted into one. The varieties which the fusion of the valves with one another, or their ^adhesion to the walls of the heart, may present, are very numerous. ■ 'In all cases an insufficiency of the valves must result, which both offers an obstacle to the free discharge of the blood from the heart, and fails adequately to close the orifice during the diastole, so as to prevent regurgitation. The left side of the heart generally, and •especially in regard to inflammation, offers by far the greatest proclivity to disease. Very few cases are recorded in which a phlogistic process could be demonstrated on the right side. Glum * gives two observations in which the tricuspid valve was thickened and rendered insufficient by this cause. Wo also find two instances reported in Dr. Hodgkin’s Catalogue of the Museum of Guy’s Atlas der Pathologischen Anatomic,” lfc'50, Liefcrung i. Beobaclitung’, 12 and 12a A A354 DISEASES OF TIIE VALVES OF THE HEAET. Hospital (Nos. 140 L and 1402), in which the curtains of the tricus- pid were thickened. In one of these there was also ^ortenin^of the tendinous cords. In the Museum of St. Marj < p‘ • - specimen of adhesion and thickening of the tricuspid valves vith contraction of the orifice apparently the result of mflammati m We have also seen one case of ulcerative endocarditis africt tricuspid valve. In both the cases just mentioned the left side oi the heart was quite normal. The valves of the Pulmonary arterwre also little liable to disease; most of the affections of this orifice ««-««™iT“rr, sd subject to adhesion, we find the mitral valve more prone to an hvoertrophy of its fibrous tissue, which is especially liable to present itsJlf in the shape of nodulated masses, or granulations, Fig. 82. Fibroid thickening of the mitral valve. markin'* the line of apposition of the flaps and in some instances Xselv resembling accumulations of fat. In connection with wLphyof the endocardium we find the lining membrane of nyperwopuy bv which means it appears that, uide- h0 jail,6" 5 °n£mmatory action, a secondary adhesion may be SS5 U»;'be ^T» ch= iitomrbXlitt iutebobeotoc.l.r o„f,« opaque throughout :s§ gssasss'gg of nuclei; and in ^ }i!5uc is pirlici.larlc liable increase of fibies. tins new y cranular metamorphosis, LdSetSo°£ecto,Sea refc.red to atberotna inDISEASES OF THE VALVES OF THE HEART. 355 and also to calcareous degeneration, producing the calcification or : so-called ossification of the valves spoken of further on. These < changes may affect either the fibroid tissue resulting from acute ' endocarditis (as in rheumatism) or that produced by the more <• chronic changes which are sometimes called chronic inflammation ; and hence it is difficult or impossible to say, from their appearance s alone, whether the morbid changes of valves are due to an acute or to a chronic disease. Opacity ot the valves usually results from the chronic changes just described; and it often happens, as in atheroma of arteries, that the new growth is calcified. Some degree of opacity is very ecommon, especially in the anterior flap of the mitral, where a ■ yellow opaque patch is the rule in persons beyond middle life. It :is not impossible that this is produced by friction, as this flap appears often to touch the ventricular septum.* Atrophy of 1 alves. We have already alluded to perforation of tithe valves, as a result of endocarditis. Another form in which tithe same lesion occurs is in connection with atrophy. This is Fig. 83. B / Klnroid thickening of a pulmonary valve, extending symmetrically on both sides of the curtain, and consisting of a soft ft brill a ting deposit. It was found in a man who had a broken spine. namfestod, m the first instance, by attenuation and increased wanspareney of the valves; as this advances, one or more open Jigs are effected, which may bo sufficiently numerous to induce a rfk-ta t Humorous io induce noniorm appearance. It is only when the perforations are lari r nnrnofoim ‘ a, -.r i 4 interfere>. t0 any serious extent, with "the mentation. Dr. Wilks is ot opinion that most of these perfora- ?r°xon has suggested that the white fibroid patches on , lection of m"™0 friCti0n’ bUt tlu;y ure far Iess —than the convspondtogDISEASES OE THE VALVES OF THE HEAET. 356 tions are congenital. Dr. Kingston,’ who -was the first to <lraw attention to this point, observes that atrophy may be defined as a simple shortening of the valve, and, in the first instance, a mere Shy in the direction of the length. He speaks of the cribriform appearance in the flaps as also resulting from the same proves, and has found the two conditions chiefly m the mitral and -ricmpid valves In this he differs from other authors. Kokitansky for was cribriform, in two the tricuspid, and m one both the aortic a lm)urrture ofthe Valves.—It is doubtful whether perfectlybea^by valves can be ruptured by violent or excessive tension, but there can be no doubt that this accident often occurs m valves ^kened by disease.t The causes are usually great muscular exeiuo , Fig. 84. vomiting or sndden moninl from calcareous deposit os. con^tion mav lead to lacera- but it is said ^^Jai^eVof the aorta. The fissured appearance Reduced cfctingniste, them fromthopr- forations respiting from atrophy. have seen to be not Calcareous and omfic rfeposffs, wrncii are yery rarely met with unKrUthe endocardium, except m cmnpa^ed to IKS1 XrL=daTiin i- P— - * “ Meitioo-Chiruijicftl Trans.,” v-’l- **.p. + See “ Trans. Path. Soc., 1863, >oi. i' • V357 DISEASES OF THE VALVES OF THE HEABT. Fig. •water; sometimes resembling stalactitic projections, at others • forming irregular rounded eminences, stretching across the orifices of the heart like rigid bars, maintaining the valves in a state of ['permanent erection or distension, and inducing symptoms both of obstruction and of regurgitation. A single flap or curtain may be rendered rigid while the others retain their natural pliability: the ' valves of one side of the heart may be more or less intimately ■united by the morbid growth; but whatever forms the lesion may I ^assume, it is scarcely possible to occur without a permanent nar- |r rowing of the orifice. They are, as has been said, always connected | either with those chronic changes of the endocardium, which may he called slow inflammation, or efelse are a result of antecedent i acute inflammation. Kreissig and Bouillaud refer the disease uni- formly to inflammatory action; and Dr. Watson is also of opinion that it is somehow certainly con- nected with inflammation of the internal lining of the heart. But we must not overlook the import- ant fact of the natural tendency ^existing in the arterial system [.generally, as well as in other tis- sues of the body, to induration ind ossification with advancing i fife; and though we are far from tooking upon ossification of the ' ralves as a physiological process, »>ve are justified by analogy, as • rail as by the positive fact of the very chronic nature of these de- posits, in looking upon them in Jiany cases as of a non-inflam- .natory character allied to the general species of degenerative msea.se. At all events, they must fall under the same category as atheromatous and calcareous changes in the arteries. 4lth°ugh we have used the term ossification in accordance vth common usage, to designate the change under consideration, t is important not to confound the process with the one in vmch genuine bone is formed; cretification or calcareous deposition ■ v°ukl be a more appropriate term, for there is no resemblance between the morbid product and true bone. It consists essentially •t carbonate and phosphate of lime deposited in irregular amor- inous nodules, and resembling more a chemical precipitation than ® organic formation. The material is more or less friable and is connected by the remains of the fibroid, or atheromatous matter n which it formed. It is soluble in the mineral acids. It is often hfficult, when wo meet with an advanced case, to determine in Aortic valves of a man aged forty- seven, rendered perfectly rigid by cal- careous deposit. The patient was affected with granu- lar kidneys and cirrhosis of the liver.358 DISEASES OF THE VALVES OF THE HEAET. what part the deposit first takes place ; whether beneath or on the surface of the lining membrane. Ihe opinions of different writers differ with regard to this question. The most common form un- doubtedly is the conversion of atheromatous or fibroid deposit underneath the lining membrane analogous to what we see occur- ring in the arteries ; and as this enlarges, the membrane becomes softened and destroyed, and the ossification then projects free into thesangSneous current. It is not the mere increase of the denosit which determines this solution, but an element in producing this result is undoubtedly a morbid affection of the lining membra e Fig. 86. tween the cavity of the heart and the vessel. a, Upper surface ; b, under surface. (From St. George’s Hospital Museum, E 18.) SetS ‘rXted tire ever the ossifc deposit. The passage l&egggssssfs osseous masses, vl.ich occasion and tion of Callus concretions and mortid affections surrounded by them, c , Tt-hicli determines the great of the valves generally f°llow f fh ] art as compared with prevalence of disease on the left side of tiie heart as V gide EomV»S“otteknSg’ti bony deposit in the pulnmnau artery close to tlio valves. . “ Catalogue of Guy’s Hospital Museum,” No. 1413.359 DISEASES OF THE VALVES OF THE HEAET. Fio. 87. Combined Lesions.—The lesions of the valves hitherto spoken of may be variously complicated with one another, or with hetero- logous growths. Pathological re- cords contain instances of a great variety of changes of form, the r result of morbid processes or acci- dent. Thus the individual flap of the semilunar valve may he re- ■ verted or inverted, the valves of '.the aorta may become detached at their bases, and thus lose the rfulcrum by which they resist the iiimpetus of the blood; or the ten- .dinous cords of the mitral may ■induce a deficiency of the valve by l. ' ' a Aortic valves of a child aged four years; they are opaque and thickened, and their free margin curled backward toward the artery. Two of the valves are closely united by their adjacent margins. (St. Bartholomew’s Museum. 11th Series, 52.) Fio. 88 a shortening and thickening, idesion which Hope considers as constituting one of the worst va- ririeties of diseases of the valves. Aneurism of the Valves.—A con- idition of the valves remains to be /•pointed out, which was first de- monstrated by Dr. Thurnam ; * it consists in a saccular dilatation, which he attributes to a gradual Uhstension, and hence terms aneurism of the valves. It is met with in the aortic and tricuspid, hut most commonly in the mitral, valves. Dr. Peacockf has also recorded a similar affection of the valve of the foramen ovale. We find that the dilatation may exist without any lesion of continuity in the tissue; the endocardial lining being traceable throughout the pouch. This in the case of the mitral valve projects into the left auricle, and is often filled with a clot of blood. This form would correspond with what is termed true aneurism of the arteries. A second variety is that resulting from inflammation of the valves, by which a solution of continuity is effected in the lin- -p,. , , , , . inS membrane of one surface of .blood penetrates by this opening between the two layers of + ‘‘Pntu"Ci°"(^ w?' T™'I1®lct'onH'” vo1- xix- P- 1.62, voL xxi. p. 187, vol. xxiii p 328 rt deL h?KeportH; 185°-51' P- *>• Several instances of vklvular aneurkm re detailed in the same volume, pp. 72, 77, and 78. aneurism Aneurism of the mitral valve; a pouch >rojc< ting into the cavity of the left uUncle, about three-quarters of an inch J5ffh, and half an inch wide. It has ■JUrst by an irregular rent on one side. (St. Bartholomew’s Museum, 12th Series, 62.) he flap.DISEASES OF THE VALVES OF THE HEAKT. 360 endocardium, causing that of the opposite side to iug, in fact, a sort of dissecting aneurism. This form is d sen, d bv Rokitansky and Forster as occurring only on the left side of the heart, and^attaining the size of a hazel nut, or even of a walnut. It is usually formed rapidly, and often becoines ruptured, leaving a ragged opening thickly beset with vegetations, this species of anem-Tsm has been described as a hernia-like protrusion of the valve.* Another characteristic example is described as an aneurism byCawsef:otd J&LuBb of Valvular Jiseoae.^e have^for of convenience, reviewed the diseases affecting the individual tissues of the heart separately; but before proceeding fuither, it may be well to dwell for a brief space upon their comphcations „ another and with morbid phenomena m other vital organs The fact of the intimate connection between a rheumatic diathesis and pericardial and endocardial inflammation has ab'eadv i 1 n l ri tn We cannot show the relation better than by ex- been alluded to We cannot snowtn yiedicine” the disease i -f«-»j* boa'eS sss •SJsras sented lesions m at lea ^ condition of this organ had probably have been mcrea Tplis proportion has been been noted with the same cai Savior t The secondary effects confirmed by the researches of Dr left sid| 0f the S:/Sewmt fpTkebSwfc. ^361 DISEASES OF THE VALVES OF THE HEART. disease in producing hypertrophy is a point of great importance, and its connection with pericardial and endocardial inflammation has been especially dwelt upon by Bouillaud. Its influence in affecting the circulation in the brain is undeniable, hut it is pro- bable that the frequency with which it induces haemorrhage, either in the lungs or in the brain, has been over-rated. In most, if not all, of the, cases on record of cerebral apoplexy connected with cardiac hypertrophy, the result was more justly attributable to the coincident arterial disease than to the increased impulse of an en- larged heart. Pulmonary apoplexy appears rather to be connected with the obstructions to the circulation presented by mitral disease, and with the blocking up of branches of the pulmonary artery, than with an hypertrophic condition of the heart. With regard to the liver, we find that in fatty degeneration of the heart it com- monly presents a similar concomitant affection, not to speak of tho i congestion to which it is almost invariably subject when the return 1 of the blood to the heart is in any way impeded. Congestions of the venous system of the entire body are frequent in cardiac i disease, and manifest themselves by lividity of the cutaneous : surface, and of the mucous membranes; and the secondary effects ' of stasis are shown in these tissues by oedema and haemorrhage, while in the serous cavities they are evidenced by an effusion of serum—one form of passive dropsy. Of the latter we find the peritoneum chiefly prone to suffer, a circumstance which we may • fairly attribute to the absence of any compression, such as we find i normally exerted upon all the other serous sacs.CHAPTER XXII. CONGENITAL MALFORMATION OF THE HEART. Cardiac anomalies, dependent on congenital malformation, are mostly due to what is termed arrest of development; that is to »ay, the organ does not go through those changes by formed from its original simple structure into the ^mphcafc^ organization necessary for the performance of its func^- Hence such anomalies are characterized by greater simplicity, an excess of development is rarely met with m the heart, except as acquired condition. In all these varieties of congenital arrest, we observe a tendency to return to the primitive type of a single ina; cavity. As the growth proceeds through its different stages, from the simplest condition of the pulsating vessel, to the comPHs mechanism of the perfect heart, we see close resemblances be- tween temporary conditions of the human conditions of the heart in the lower animals. Thus_ the type oi the piscine heart is presented in those cases where in a onlvfind a single auricle and ventricle. There are, however, very many instance! of congenital malformation_ which _maj b«yreferred to disease (inflammation) occurrmg during mtra-uterme JLife. Classification of Malformations.— Such anomalies are ently classified, according to the period of^ fetal We at wtoh arrest of development takes place. Thus, according to Dr. t cacocn ^from whom we have borrowed much of the subsequent summary) slnting very slight indications of division, and the primitive arterial tri^ being retained ^ occurs at ♦ •< Malformations of the Heart,” tod edition, 1S66.CONGENITAL MALFORMATION OF THE HEART. 363 more or less completely developed. Such are the cases in which, with imperfect separation of the ventricles, the arterial or auriculo- ventricular apertures are constricted or obliterated, and the origins of the primary vessels, and especially of the aorta, are misplaced. (3) Oases in which development has gone on till a later period, so that the auricular and ventricular septa are completely formed, and the primary vessels possess their natural connections ; but in which disease either prevents the natural evolution of the organ after birth, or produces conditions which are the cause of more serious obstruction in after life. I.—MALFORMATIONS DEPENDENT ON EARLY ARREST OF DEVELOPMENT. In these cases the heart may, it is said, consist of but a single t contractile cavity, but this has been observed only in im perfect 1 y ! formed foetuses. In infants which have survived for some days | after birth, a heart of two chambers has occasionally been found. : The common ventricle usually gives origin to a distinct aorta and ; pulmonary artery, but sometimes the former supplies the lungs by . a ductus arteriosus. The common auricle receives the vense cavm and pulmonary veins, but usually shows some indication of a i division; and is sometimes provided with one or two auricular appendages. In cases where development has advanced somewhat f farther, three chambers are found, viz., two more or less distinct - auncles, and one ventricle. The two auricles receive the pulmonary . and systemic veins respectively, while the single Ventricle either - gives origin to a distinct aorta and pulmonary artery, or else the i latter. arises from the former by a ductus arteriosus. There is • sometimes a rudimentary ventricular septum. This kind of r malformation, though very rare, is of more frequent occurrence tthan the biloculate. It has been observed in individuals who :: have lived to the age of 11, 16, or even 24 years, though more - generally in infants who have survived their birth only a few days. II.—MALFORMATIONS DEPENDENT ON ARREST OF DEVELOPMENT AT A LATER PERIOD. In specimens classed under this head all four cavities are pre- sent, but there is some imperfection in one or both of the septa and usually some obstruction either in the aorta or pulmonary artery. Imperfection of the inter-ventricular septum, if only partial, usually occurs at the base, where, during foetal life the division of the cavities is last effected, and here more especially in a triangular area, where the ventricular septum is on tho loft side uncovered by muscular substance, and which is known as the undefended space. There may, however, be deficiencies in other ^ ventneuiar septum. These defects may coexist with imperfect separation of the auncles, but such is, according to DrCONGENITAL MALFORMATION OF THE HEART. 3G4 Peacock, not always the case; and on the other hand, the a^cular septum may he imperfect, or the foramen ovale unclosed, while the partition of the ventricles is entire. Openings at the part railed the undefended space are thought to be sometimes caused by disease, and not congenital. Deficiencies m the partitions of the auricles and ventricles usually coincide with other important anomalies, especially with some source of obstruction at the: pul- monic or other orifice, so that we may often regard the former as the consequence of the latter; but this does not always hold large apertures being sometimes found m the septa without other abnormalities of any kind. In these cases there hayeimually been no signs of obstruction or disorder of the circulatory system deficiencies in the auricular septum are also found unacccm- nanied by any other anomaly. This defect is sometimes coincident with imperfection of the foramen ovale and its valve, but some- times found at another part of the cavity. _ _ . Defects in the Septa, associated with Construction of the Orifices, or Misplacement of the Primary Vessels.-One of the c”“e®tTafn^ of malformation of the heart consists in the association of the.e two forms of anomaly. Obstruction to the flow of: blood fromrth right ventricle is the condition most frequently met with, ibis obstruction may occur, according to Dr. free edo-es of the valves of the pulmonary arteiy , (2) at the line of attachment of the valves to the fibrous zone; (3) m the’ coume of the milmonary artery itself; or (4) at the commencement of the infundibular portion of the right ventricle. There may_ aLo defect which can only be described as congenital smaUness of the nnlmnnarv arterv In all these cases we meet with the same associated defect7in other parts of the heart; viz., perfection of the inter-ventricular septum, towards the left, so that the righ ventricle ^ aives origin, wholly or in part, to the aorta. 1 he foramen ova S remains open in snelr cases, and “! from total occlusion (a condition geni 5 ^ ctlppre, which for more than a few days) to mere ° during life, and be may give rise to few or ambiguous hyper- unaccompanied by any other * triclo qjie latter changes trophy and dilatation of the right ventricle ine surv;v0 are (as might be expected) most mark^ n pemons for some years. There is usually more or less cjano. ,365 CONGENITAL MALFORMATION OF THE HEART. is not invariably the case; shortness of breath, and a tendency to syncope being sometimes all that are observed. A systolic murmur may generally be heard on the left side of the sternum, especially over the third costal cartilage, and there may be at the same spot a palpable thrill. It has been pointed out by Lebert, that in many cases of narrowing of the pulmonary artery, tubercular phthisis occurs in the lungs.* Origin of loth Aorta and Pulmonary Artery from Left Ventricle. This anomaly may be theoretically accounted for by supposing the ventricular septum to be transposed towards the right, being at the same time imperfect, just as, when both great vessels are connected with the right ventricle, the septum appears to deviate towards the left. It is, however, a very rare form of anomaly. Obliteration or Obstruction of the Aorta, with or without Imperfec- tion of the Ventricular Septum.— This defect is singularly rare, as compared with the corresponding defect of the right side of the heart. When it occurs the pulmonary artery supplies the aorta with blood through the ductus arteriosus. The right ventricle is very large; the left may, if the septum be perfect, be almost obliterated. Or it may, if imperfectly separated from the right ventricle, assist in the origin of the pulmonary artery. In the former case the foramen ovale must be widely open, and the blood from the lungs thus reaches the right auricle and ventricle. Transposition of the Origin of the Great Vessels.—11 sometimes happens that the pulmonary artery is found originating from the leit ventricle ; the aorta from the right. This condition has been observed in hearts presenting no other serious defect, exceut patency of the ductus arteriosus and foramen ovale. The auricles fe«.e^6 i,0(^ ,as usua^> the right from the systemic circulation; the lett from the lungs. The result accordingly is that, except for the small communication effected by the passages just mentioned, tbere are essentially two hearts; or (in the words of Baillie f) there must be florid blood circulating between the lungs and the left side ot the heart; a dark-coloured blood circulating between the general mass of the body and the right side. In one instance of a child winch survived two years and eight months, the ductus arteriosus was closed but the foramen ovale widely open. The origin of this curious anomaly is involved in great obscurity, and no adequate explanation has yet been suggested.j; 'Pf?a of constriction or obliteration of the pulmonary artery or orifice of the vcntncle arc recorded in the “Transactions of the Patholo^"soricty,?'™° Pt Oh, o2, 68, ‘2:u, 2)5; vol. 11. p. 37, vol. lv. p. 81.; vol. v. no (i7 ou. A „ uP' vui. PP-107, 123, 107 ; vol. x. pp. 81, 90 ; vol. xi. p. 45 • vo! xiii w rr ^ 8u ’ if! ®: vo1- x™ Many other references are given by Dr Peacock' in’the’ wnfrXV' often referred to, ‘ Malformations of the Heart,” 2nd edition, 18110 k ,‘5° London,riml”?'* trUt° “ M°rbld Anatomy’” P- Plate vi. faso. 1. 2nd edition, 7 Lockle; “Mod.-Chir. Trans.,” vol. xlvi. p. 204, 1?63 Ward' “Pnih 'p ,, ska*1 “** s?k3G6 m—MALFORMATIONS DEPENDING UPON PREMATURE CLOSURE, OR PERMANENT PATENCY OF THE FCETAL OPENINGS. The changes which are rendered necessary in the totus after birth by the cessation of the placental and the estabbshment of a pulmonary circulation, affect chiefly two parts, namely, the ductus arteriosus^and the foramen ovale; and these openings may be either prematurely closed or remain unduly patent. Premature closure of the ductus arteriosus is of course an anomaly belonging to festal life, but the results first become appa- rent after birth. The consequence of it is that the pulmonar > Xy?yes^passage during total life only to the very smaU amount of blood which circulates through the lungs, and is in consequence so imperfectly developed as to be incapable of adequately expanding after birth and of conveying the larger quantity of blood which should then be transmitted. Thei small size of ' tin; vessel thus becomes a source of permanentob trnc- tion, which entails other defects in the development of the °Vf?ema^re2mre of the foramen ovale leads to excessive develop- ment of the right side of the heart and corresponding imperfechon r tim Ipfl- side A case of this description is recorded by alt. r e Sh to the firsl volume of the “Pathological Transactions,’ wW this opening was entirely wanting in a child which survived itSiSmwntY Arteriosus. This condition may combination with other important anomalies ; especially occur m combinat ^ firsi *tion of the aorta (ascending closure 01 ob defect tke commellcement of rs as ^ 3 opening may be eithei un 5 rlofective Defect of the valve the valve either tor may be simplv inadequate develop- may amount to total aoseiicto j ^ ivorforations m or. WIT., ‘tee taSl SSiri «i* it. Such anomalies as these tonv often be ascribed to other serious defects of the leai , . *■ development of undue pressure to one or otheThe the organ, from obstruction o so inch to an inch, and opening may then have a diameter of half an men toMALFORMATIONS OF THE VALVES. S67 ; in such cases there is always evidence of some serious defect in the 1 heart. It often happens, however, that an open foramen ovale is 1 found after death in persons who have presented no symptoms ' whatever of disordered circulation during life. The commonest form of imperfection is when the membranous t curtain covers the opening entirely, but there is a “valvular” i opening through which a probe can be obliquely passed. This does : not, in all probability, at all interfere with the functions of the : heart, so long as the blood pressure remains (which it must be normally) equal on both sides. If, however, any cause, such as obstruction in the lungs, produce a higher pressure on one side of : the septum, blood may pass from one auricle to the other. By this inequality of pressure, combined with the consequent dila- tation of the auricle, the exent of the opening will be greatlv increased. o j The form of defect which we believe to be of practical import- ance, and to be in all probability never repaired, is when the c curtain leaves a crescent-shaped opening at its lower border bbeing attached only by two pillars at the corners; and, further’ ■has two or three perforations arranged in a curved line above’ llhe curtain is at the same time usually very thin. This form of vvalve we have seen both in infants dying soon after birth with obviously imperfect circulation, and in adults who have suffered tirroni dyspnoea and some degree of cvanosis. MALFORMATIONS OF THE VALVES. The valves frequently present a congenital arrest, or excess of ivelopment, sometimes independent of any other malformation of * “ Report of the Pathol. Society," 1852, p. 292.CYANOSIS. 363 “ In some cases the^exces^ being to tbe division of one oi them into - three valves smaller in size than tbe others^ inter- of nearly equal sme, with A ionall™tlie aperture is provided posed between two of then . . • • e an(j iu the other with four valves, gradually ^ e g gjz6i and natural cases there may he lour va ves tricuspid and mitral form." Similar defects am find ttaSteal, or loss ire- valves, but more larely. • flaps adherent by their quently, SwISS. Thi. pecilimctj Sfrobab? SJSTSSSuS may be corded rrr.b - bahly congenital, though t Tk5' mitral and tricuspid valves disease, may be :mentioned he ular fibres which are con- 'are sometimes found to contain u y found in place of some tinuous with true “^^“Xchthe^lvel are attached. In one of the tendinous ^'ds^J^hftejaWes ^ ^ a case observed by Dr. J. <Ve J?terior flap of the mitral valve, fourpenny piece was seen shown by Kiirschner, minute The fact seems to be ^ot normally, present m bundles of muscle are very negm® rtrophied so as to form re- the valves, and are o^^^Stion seems to have been sug- cognizahle masses. T t P ^ 1852 ) that the SSESSii •«— »>- d«°”"e ,b ” border. CYANOSIS. Cyanosis is a tem applied to m^nic^nVcom neous surface which is foim Jf the circulation, which genital disturbances m the iutense character than have just been enumerated. 0 frequently observed the slaty tinge which ^^f^cart! It was formerly attn- to assume m acquired di ■ - to 0ne lesion, a permanent, buted, on theoretical grounds, sol | , this occasionally patency of the foramen ovale^ ^rintermixtnre^hetwe^ gives rise to the affection, by allow» ^ causmg the mixed the blood of th^tY^lfC91ii1}he system, without having under- fluids to he circulated through he s 1)lood ought to be sub- fcugEriife? without inducing any serious dutur . .< Trans. Path. Soo.," 1S68, vol. ix. p. 109, Platc v'CYANOSIS. 369 tli3 circulation; and on the other hand, that various other irre- gularities in the heart, such as those before referred to, may rgive rise to cyanosis. Bizot found the foramen ovale more or [ess open in forty-four out of one hundred and fifty-five sub- jects, in none of whom was there a trace of the morbus cceru- e.eus. Two openings have been found in the ventricular septum, uul no cyanosis resulted; a marked instance of this kind in an individual who attained the a.ge of eight years, was brought 'oefore the Pathological Society, by Dr. Quain, in 1847. In such a .;ase we are justified in assuming that the forces of the two sides of -he heart are so exactly balanced as not to disturb the circulation; and the orifice of the pulmonary and systemic arteries being patent, -he contents of each side pass into their proper channel. That this ■ s a prevailing law for many cases of cyanosis, is shown by the iact, that it frequently does not manifest itself unless there is some urther cause for derangement of the circulation, such as bronchitic iffeetions, to which, it may be remarked, cyanotic individuals are weculiarly subject. Another lesion that appears to be often associated with cyanosis ■ 5 a contracted state of the pulmonary artery; and, as in that case aore than usual pressure will continue to be exerted upon the uramon ovale, this will necessarily remain patulous, and allow a passage of blood from the right to the left auricle ; in such a case ; may be almost looked upon as a safety valve. Gintrac* has amalyzed fifty cases of-cyanosis, and among them found obstruction t the pulmonic orifice in twenty-six; the proportion is stated to e still greater by other authors. But the blue disease is not neces- the result of an admixture of the contents of the two sides of 1 ie heart; anything causing an arrest in the return of the venous Wood to the heart is sufficient to give rise to it. In a case of larked cyanosis, recorded by Mr. Ebenezer Pye Smith, already referred f°> in which the foramen ovale was perfectly closed, and had vidently been so for some time before birth, there was no inter- JMlijncular comTnl}I1icaiion> the left ventricle was almost oblite- 'ited, and the aortic opening was also very small, being about two i nos Wide. Here, then, there was an evident arrest at the aortic Hnnci, which reacted upon the pulmonary circulation, and through iat upon the systemic capillaries. The lungs were too much larged with blood to perform the duty of aeration effectually, and congested or cyanotic condition of the surface resulted. Other ptmlar instances of the cyanosis being due to contraction at the irtic orifices are on record. f One of the most palpable instances that has occurred to us . "oving how little we are able to account for cyanosis theoretically’ as that of a child that lived to the ago of nino weeks, and whose -art, after death, was found to present no auriculo-ventricular nening, on the right side, while there was scarcely any inter- * “ Sur la Cyanose,” Paris, 1821.CYANOSIS. 370 ventricular septum at all. Here there had been no cyanosis, although a thorough intermixture of the venous and arterial blood must have necessarily taken place. Bouillaud * is of opinion that the communication between the two sides of the heart, and the consequent admixture of the arterial and venous blood has, comparatively, little to do with the purple hue of the complexion, which he considers to result, mainly, from the coincident obstacle offered to the circulation by a malformation of tRe arterial orifices of the heart. The numerous cases on record in which not only the foramen ovale was patulous, hut in which there was further evidence of the actual passage of the blood, directly from one side of the heart to the other, shows, as Dr. Peacock t has remarked, that there is a want of just relation between the amount of venous blood entering the general circula- tion and the degree of cyanosis. The lesions that are found in connection with this symptom, consequently, require to be care- fully analyzed before we can determine the exact part that each bears in its production. They may shortly be enumerated as a patulous condition of the foramen ovale, from the valve not entirely covering the orifice (with which a defective involution of the Eustachian valve is commonly combined) permanent patency of the ductus arteriosus ; contraction of the systemic or pulmonary arterial orifices ; a deficiency in the inter-ventricular septum; and the malformation in which the aorta springs from both ventricles. . ' History and Symptoms.— Cyanosis is a disease which generally shows itself at or immediately after birth. The circumstance that it occasionally makes its appearance later in life has induced Meckel and Abernethy to assume that the foramen ovale may re- open, an hypothesis which is unnecessary, as we now know how frequently a communication exists between the auricles, without producing cyanosis, and that this lesion may, under certain cir- cumstances, as in diseased states of the lungs, induce a disturb- ance in the balance of the circulation, 'sufficient to force the blood through the auricular septum. Stress has been laid by several authors upon the circumstance that the fingers of cyanotic individuals are found clubbed. B e only advert to it to mention that it is by no means diagnostic of this form of heart-disease, or, in fact, of any distinct malady. A more important point is an observation with which Rokitansky concludes; his remarks on the subject, to the effect that cyanosis is incom- patible with tuberculosis, against which he states that it offers a complete protection. We do not deny that this is the prevail* rule vet it is not as absolute as the author quoted assorts. in the Report of the Pathological Society for 1848 (p. 200) we finfflB case presented by Dr. Peacock, which refutes the universality «; * “ Traitd Clinique,” «!cc., vol. ii 690, ct seq. + “Pathol. Reports,” 1818, p. 202.371 CYANOSIS. the law. There the post-mortem examination of the individual a youn« man, aged twenty, established the following facts--The right lung was extensively permeated by tubercle, and towards the apex exhibited several small cavities; the left lung contained thf?lej.rt 7as hypertrophic; the nulmonary ait ry exhibited a complete diaphragm, formed by adhesion of the vaives, leaving only a small triangular aperture; the foramen ovale Jnt f mdC y Patulous- There had been cyanosis during life, but not m a very marked degree.CHAPTER XXni. THE BLOOH VESSELS. The arteries and veins are not by any means subject to precisely the same morbid conditions; the difference in the directionof the current in the composition of the blood, in the velocity and force of the circulation, and in the structure of them coats, are must not be overlooked in forming an estimate of the dtoeasto o these two great classes of vessels. The of disease m its primary and secondary form are essentially drffeient in the two, as wofind their physiological and anatomical relations to be videlv Tnart The arteries e°xhibit between then lining membrane and Sir coat a dense fibrous layer, which contains no therefore removes the vasa vasorum, which ramify in the cellular coat much further from the lining membrane than is the case m the veins, nor can any vessels be detected on the lining coat, or on the disesses of thes. two classes of vessels respectively will be seen as we go on. the arteries. To proceed sysWticslly, we shall first examine the morbid conditions of the arteries. P chute whether the middle We have seen : as and lining c^ts oi aeaiteu^ ^ ^ ^ can scar(^y assume tl‘ey possess 1 tbe primary phenomena of inflannna- them ^eoJdarily Solved in inilammatoj tion; but tnat tney m y , oat caunot he doubted, affections proceeding from then outer coat^canno.^ ^ be0U Acute inflammation of t e °u o ■ > . ^ onu- fornl 0f acute very carefully studied by Si be said to be inflammation of arteries of w it ,1 h scrihed as acute arteritis, clearly established The cases f°meil> nied by acute in which sudden obliteration o a c b • .v suspicion ; since VC inflammation are now looked upon with suspiuo ,373 THE ABTEBIES. 4 cannot be sure that the blocking of the artery was not the primary ■ occurrence ancl cause of the other symptoms. The whole train of phenomena precisely corresponds with what is now called embolism. Of late years such cases have rarely been described, and excellent | i observers, with unusual opportunities for observation, as Dr. Wilks, h have never seen a single case. So that the older observations must i now be accepted with some degree of caution. Bizot describes as the result of acute inflammation of the arte- ries, an “albuminous exudation” of greater or less thickness, of the consistency of jelly, transparent, smooth, sometimes rose-coloured, i at others colourless, covering the lining membrane. It is occa- - sionally so transparent as to escape attention unless very carefully ■ examined. It occurs in patches, solitary or numerous, and dimi- nishes the calibre of the vessel; in one case Bizot saw it entirely : plugging up the anterior tibial artery. In the aorta this exudation Ms formed mostly at the orifice of the arteries arising from the arch, at the mouth of thecceliac, mesenteric and renal arteries, and at its ; posterior surface, so as to block up the mouths of the intercostal ■ a arteries. More recently MM. Cornil aud Ranvier* have described acute I1’endarteritis in somewhat similar terms, as characterized by swell- ing of the internal coat in the form of flat patches of various size, in colour and consistency resembling the “exudations” described by Bizot. These plates are found to be in great part composed of "Tound embryonic cells, which result from the proliferation of nor- mal elements of the internal coat, which is most active near the ‘-.surface. They insist upon the fact that this multiplication of 1 .elements on the surface of the internal coat is peculiar to acute ■ endarteritis, and distinguishes it from chronic atheromatous ■ endarteritis (which will be presently spoken of), where the same cichanges go on in the deep layer of the internal coat. Cornil and RRanvior have on several occasions seen this process in the aorta ; .'they regard it as rare in medium-sized and small arteries, but common in the vessels contained in the granulating tissues of wounds. Though these views are opposed to those which have ‘been prevalent of late years, when it has been customary to deny the existence of acute endarteritis, there scorns no reason why this •mould not occur here as well as in tho corresponding tissue of The endocardium and in tho internal coat of veins ; whero we have reason to believe such a process does take place. As an instance of what was formerly called arteritis, we may take the following case of “ acute inflammation of the aorta,” recorded by Mr. Hodgson.f A man was seized with violent pneumonia, which proved fatal in five days. The cadaveric inspection exhibited all the thoracic viscera in tho highest degrco of acute inflamma- tion ; the aorta was also involved, its internal coat boing of a deep I “ HisMo^ie Patliolopque,” 1873, deuxiOmc partie, p. 530. + “On the Arteries,” p. a.THE ARTERIES. 374 red colour, and a considerable portion of lymph being effused into the cavity. The effused lymph was very intimately connected with the internal coat of the vessel, and a plug of it had extended into the left subclavian artery, and nearly obliterated the cavity of that vessel.” Another important case is very fully described by Bom- berg.* In reference to this subject some experiments performed by G-endrinf were formerly thought to be of considerable importance in demonstrating the capability of the coats of the artery giving rise to inflammatory exudation in the strict sense of the word. He found that on injecting an irritant substance into a portion of an artery included between two ligatures, and depiived of blood, a deposit of coagulable lymph took place, which covered the internal coat, and at last formed a plug filling up the channel. The lining membrane at first was only slightly discoloured, and through it a network of injected capillaries might be distinguished on the adhe- rent surface of this tunic to the middle coat. When the inflamma- tion had advanced this was no longer seen, the internal coat having become pulpy, rugous, and dull. The suppuration that followed did always coincide with ulceration of the inner coat; the pus, however, was not necessarily deposited in the vessel, but infiltrated into the cellular sheath, forming small abscesses. Similar experi- ments were made by Bigot and Trousseau with negative results; and by others with various consequences. Traumatic and Secondary Arteritis.—In the more common form of inflammation of arteries produced by laceration, pressure, ligature, or the inflammation of neighbouring parts, the outer and middle coats are chiefly or solely affected, and it is hence called by some periarteritis and mesarteritis. The outer coat is found brightly injected, and with the middle coat swollen and infiltrated with exu- dation, while the inner coat is thrown into folds, and ultimately becomes necrotic, and is detached. Diffuse suppuration may re- sult in the substance of the arterial walls. The blood contained m the vessel will ultimately coagulate, and thus produce all the con- sequences of arrest of circulation in the part which the vessel ^Results of Arteritis.—From the time of J. P. Prank,+ who first drew attention to the subject of arterial inflammation, to the most recent periods, various pathological conditions have been attributed to it; the acute forms have been repeatedly asserted to be the cause of trismus neonatorum, a disease which at present is one ot very rare occurrence among ourselves. Dr. West denies this cause, bu Dr Collis, § and recently Dr. Scholler|| satisfied themselves oi its real existence. The latter found inflammation of the umbilical * “ Manual of Nervous Diseases,” Sydcnlmm Society’s edition, vol. ii. P- 23S. + “ Histone Anatomique des Inflammations, vol. u. p. 13. t “ De curandis Hominiun Morbis,” vol. n. p. 363. § “ Dublin Hospital Reports,” vol. i. p. 2So. t> , a'Outrenont und J) “ Neue Zeitschrift fUr Gebuitskunde, herausgegeben i on Bu.ch, d Uut p Ritgen,” vol. v. p. 477.375 CHRONIC ARTERITIS, OR ATHEROMATOUS DISEASE. arteries in fifteen out of eighteen cases of trismus neonatorum. There was tumefaction of the umbilicus, reddening and congestion on -the external surface; the channel contained pus, and the lining 1 membrane was eroded and invested with an albuminous exuda- tion. Dr. Scholler has carefully examined these parts in all other new-born children who died shortly after birth, and has never succeeded in discovering similar lesions. It does not apjiear that traumatic tetanus in the adult, to which we may compare trismus : neonatorum, is accompanied by similar lesions. CHRONIC ARTERITIS, OR ATHEROMATOUS DISEASE. With regard to chronic arteritis the opinions of writers are as i much divided as in reference to the acute form. The same difficul- i ties in determining the relation of cause or effect in this subject i have been felt by most of the writers on the subject, and have not yet met their complete solution. The older authors attributed i the appearances of chronic arteritis to syphilitic taint or mercurial poisoning; some of the more recent, among whom we may mention 1 Corvisart,* * * § have held a similar opinion, and Hodgson t supports it on ' the ground that he has observed aneurism and those organic alter- ations which generally attend the formation of aneurism, to prevail in subjects that have suffered from venereal disease, and who have taken large quantities of mercury. The connection of this disease with syphilis is moreover supported by many authorities in the present day, especially by the medical officers in the army, who have unusual opportunities of observation in venereal disease, j _ The majority of authors are now of opinion that fibrinous depo- sit, atheroma, ulceration, ossification, and aneurism are the result of a chronic inflammatory process, though there are some who still regard it as essentially a degenerative process. § We understand by it a chronic inflammatory process, starting in the inner coat and at first hyperplastic, but usually resulting in degeneration, either of the fatty or calcareous kind. The former is the most marked feature of the disease, and has here some peculiarities which have obtained for it a special name, atheroma, and the disease is hence often called the atheromatous process. Three stages may be distinguished in chronic arteritis. The first stage does not often come under our cognizance, and when it is found later stages usually exist simultaneously in other * “ Essai sur le« Maladies du Coeur,” p. 319. + “ On the Arteries,” p. 9. X “ Reports of the Army Medical Department/’ vol. v. p. 481, and vol xii p 381 § Rokitansky formerly regarded the process as consisting essentially iii the deposit of a morbid substance from the blood current upon the inner coat, this substance lieintr itself regarded as identical with the fibrin of inflammatory exudation In the later editions of his work lie has, however, modified, if not abandoned, this view anrl‘the deposit theory, wluch rested chiefly on his authority, is now generally given up376 CHRONIC ARTERITIS, OR ATHEROMATOUS DISEASE. parts. At tliis period of the disease the inner coat of the artery appears irregularly thickened or elevated by masses of a greyish translucent material, looking as if deposited upon its surface. Care- ful examination, however, shows that the seemingly adventitious material is really continuous with and formed from the inner coat of the artery. The innermost lining, or endothelium, may generally be traced uninterruptedly, but the thickening affects the iiitrma proper, and not the middle coat. The material is, when newly formed, greyish, translucent, and sometimes like cartilage in appearance, in general resembling the substance of the translucent nodules formed on the valves of the heart m acute endocarditis. Fig. £9. Incipient atheroma and fatty degeneration of an fliae taken The lining membrane is much puckered, owing to the irregular thickeniu= between it and the middle coat. A. Naked-eye view of the artery; B. microscopic appearance of fibrinous rial doited with oil molecules; o. a longitudinal section of the artery taken betwwn »; j. the inner coat much thickened; m. middle coat unaltered; n. the external coat. This translucency and grey colour of the material are soon lost, and it becomes yellow and opaque. This change, which is owing to the deposition of fatty molecules in the substance, marks l commencement of the second stage. It is the condition which we most commonly recognize as atheromatous degeneration ot me arteries, but where it occurs, evidences of moro adwnc^forms of degeneration are also invariably present. ' changes assume one of two forms: either fat > < j (atheromatous degeneration properly so called), or calcareous mAdvanS forty degeneration, of which the earlier stage, as we377 CHRONIC ARTERITIS, OR ATHEROMATOUS DISEASE. have seen, produces yellowness and opacity in the new-formed mass, causes its softening and liquefaction. The mass, which was previously tough and resistant, becomes soft and crumbling, and finally breaks down into a sort of yellow pasty mass properly called atheroma,* or an “ atheromatous abscess.” This change first takes place in the deep layer of the inner coat, bordering on the middle coat, and thus the softened mass or abscess appears to be covered by the whole thickness of the inner coat. It is this which has led to the opinion that the whole athero- matous process takes place beneath the inner coat, or between it and the middle coat. The process of degeneration, however, gradu- ally spreads inwards and outwards. Inwards it involves the whole thickness of the inner coat, till the softened mass is covered only by a thin membrane. Outwards the same degeneration may ex- tend into the middle coat, the connective tissue and muscular fibres of which may both be affected. When the thinning of the inner coat becomes extreme it is absorbed or ruptured, forming either a large opening or else minuto perforations. If the former, an excavation like an ulcer may result. By these openings doubtless some “ atheromatous ” matter must escape into the blood, but the conditions or conse- quences of this have not been traced. On the other hand, blood enters the depression or cavity, and becoming coagulated, the degenerated blood-clot is mixed with the atheromatous matter. Small masses of coagulum, or “ vegetations,” may also be formed on the edge of such an excavation. • Calcareous Degeneration.—The second form of advanced degene- ration is the calcareous, which has also been termed “ossifica- tion of arteries. It must, however, be remembered that (as in . the case of fatty degeneration) calcification of some part of the coats of the artery may occur quite independently of the chronic inflammation connected with atheromatous disease. When it occurs as a result ot the disease now under consideration, the pro- cess consists in the deposition of calcareous matter in the thick- . ened inner coat in such quantity as to convert this into a bone- . like mass. The innermost layer is at first unaffected, and passes smoothly over the calcified structures, but after a time this is | fdher calcified or absorbed, so that the calcareous plates lie bare to the blood-current. In the other direction calcification may extend into the middle coat till a considerable thickness of the whole arterial wall is thus affected, and plates of even a line or more in thickness may result. The calcareous masses thus pro- duced project in the most varied and fantastic forms, into the cur- rent of the blood ; thus, in its turn, giving rise to further deposits m the shape of fibrinous coagula; or the bony deposit advances untlor the lining membrane, till it encircles the artery and con- verts it into a rigid channel, inducing that condition which is ’ Etymology, from u#^f.n=groats or meal; a pulp made thereof - lienee =a tumour filled with similar substance (Galen). ’ ce’ u0'^WMU378 CIIRONIC ARTERITIS, OR ATHEROMATOUS DISEASE. found to accompany senile gangrene, fatty degeneration of the heart, cerebral softening, and other morbid processes. . Calcification of the Middle Coat.— The process of calcificati m i often complicated by a similar affection of the middle coat, which is met with chiefly in the smaller or medium-sized arteries, where the muscular noddle coat predominates, and sraaetaies^ocuw alone. The calcareous matter is here deposited in the muscular bundles themselves, which become rigid, opaque, and jeUow. The change is however, partial, and the remaining part of the muscS coat shows hypertrophy. This change is obvious from outsit even to the naked eye, by the transverse and annular stripes’which correspond to the seat of calcification, plain y showhm that this is in the transverse fibres oi the middle coat The same thin" is well seen on malang a longitudinal section fr the vessel when the cut ends of the calcified muscular fibres Me seen6 in the midst of the fleshy middle coat, which is eu- dentlv abnormally thick. The hypertrophy and subsequent degeneration are probably part of a chronic process dependmg SxceSve arts,'Ll Wot. It it entremely local and parted m Sa’ce”'thTa St W their cahbre by SL fc Wood* current, rJL compensatory hypertrophy of from 'one part of thetbtytCresSultTa^ frfllmmation. In P1 °Fatty Degeneration, independent of the coats of arteries, like many other--p«h^ro- 5WSE S theesSe, O^ngular connect*g- puscles, and ultimately ofthe- vdogenelition 1 The same process m the middle coat produ^tatty ^ ala0 of the muscular fibres which is not ™mnm in the smaller affect the outer coat, and in this part is very cominuCHRONIC ARTERITIS, OR ATHEROMATOUS DISEASE. 379 arteries, where it usually accompanies a similar change in the capil- laries. In the arteries of the brain this change is seldom wanting, the lining membrane, and the atrophy or gangrene of the part nourished by the artery is an illustration of the effects following similar obliteration of the channel from disease. We have alluded to the cerebral affections resulting from an arrest in the arterial circulation; senile gangrene is another morbid condition which has been ascribed, by Dupuytren and Cruveilhier, to arteritis ; or, as would now be said, to obstruction of the diseased artery by for- mation of coagula. It is now doubted whether arteritis ever gives rise to suppuration, but independently of the cases of suppuration in the umbilical artery quoted from Dr. Scholler, Andral’s * and Hodgson’s authority,! were formerly thought to determine the question ; for these authors state that actual idiopathic suppuration does occur in the artery. The spontaneous coagulation of the blood in the arteries is not, however, usually the result of inflammatory action. It may occur in consequence of a peculiar condition, which favours the chemical tendencies, that normally ought not to come into play until after death. This spontaneous coagulation is especially met with in the pulmonary arteries, where the occurrence of the inflammatory Symptoms has, as yet, not been met with. Sir. J. Paget, J in describing a case of the kind, says, that nearly all the branches beyond the primary divisions of the pulmonary artery con- tained clots of blood, which from a comparison with those found in tied arteries he judged to be from three to ten days old. The clots did not commonly extend continuously from any large branch of the pulmonary artery into many of * “ Anat. Patholog-ique,” tom. ii. p. 379. + “ On the Arteries," p. 10. Era. 90. and is very conspicuous among the evidences of old age; still there is a peculiar form of fatty degeneration of the external coat, which is specially prevalent in children. Precisely the same changes may be traced in the small arteries and capillaries of other organs, such as the kid- neys and lungs — though the vessels are of course not so easily isolated. Connective tissue corpuscles from the inner coat of an artery, in a state of fatty degeneration. (After Rindfleisch.) Coagulation in Arteries.—The formation of a coagulum in the artery is a well-known physio- logical effect of the laceration by mechanical or other means of380 CnRONIC ARTERITIS, OR ATHEROMATOUS DISEASE. its successively subordinate divisions, no branch of the pulmo- SpifthTn tL remaining pulmonary circulation is more raprd, than before the obstruction took place^ necessarily hl^^TS P-fbut openm^ S’1ms8 ™ «s ■which may be addedthof® cas®s els have been found shooting lookslike M2££ W- »'fb,'“e 1 r6aUy "•*“** &0m the tunnelling of the once solid clot. (CHAPTER XXIY. ANEURISM. Aneurism,* or a dilatation of an artery, is connected with two lesions, according to which, from the days of Scarpa and John Pell, downwards, two classes of aneurismatic disease have been adopted by most writers—true and false aneurism,—though we shall find grounds for assuming that spontaneous aneurism is in all instances traceable to one ultimate cause—a morbid state of the arterial coats, which may produce accidental varieties in the arterial tumour. The definition of true and false aneurism, ordi- narily accepted, is that, in the former we have to deal with a dilatation, partial or entire, of a certain extent of a,n artery, with- out laceration of any of its coats; while in the latter, the dilatation is accompanied by the laceration of one or more of the coats. The precisely opposite definition was, however, given by Scarpa (following Sennertus), who called a sac a true aneurism which was deficient in one or more of the coats; while if the wall was perfect, like that of the artery containing all three coats, he called it a false aneurism. The terms true and false applied to aneurisms have, therefore, no fixed meaning, and it is better not to use them. Varieties of Aneurism.—We recognize the following forms of aneurism:—(1) Diffuse, produced by a general dilatation of the whole vessel uniformly in every direction, and over a considerable length, according to the amount of dilatation ; this may produce a cylindrical or a fusiform aneurism. (2) Circumscript or Saccular aneurism, in which the whole circumference of the artery is not involved, but protrusion of part of it takes place, and a sac is formed on one side of the vessel, connected with it by an opening more or less patulous, which may be reduced to a mere pedicle. It is to the latter that Mr. Hodgson and some other writers attempted to confine the term aneurism. (3) Dissecting aneurism, in which, by rupture of the inner coat, the blood finds its way between the middle and outer, or among the layers of the middle coat. A somewhat similar condition is seen in the cerebral • From uvevpvvio, I dilute; aievpvafxu, a dilatation.382 CAUSES OF ANEURISM. arteries when blood may be effused within the outer coat, which S these arteries is loose! detached, and known as the penvascular 0rTCfa£ritnttforms which are with doubtful propriety de- P*hicb become tortaoueaod enlarged in a varicose manner. CAUSES OF ANEURISM. , , ... _Tt now generally admitted that the chief factor in izt srr=o4» not appear that this disea weaken the resistance of the can produce any ““^^SlT^itwoduces a state of wall; but if it extend to the faPVOui-able to dilata- swelling a^ rela^rio h h^ ^ coatJ are thickened, rigid tion. In the later st » to sess mcreased power of and even calcified, cageg bfwhich We are able to trace resistance; and hence, intho to take place at an early the production of an ^Xr than at an advanced stage of the atheromatou p sneciallv “ fibroid ” change, ^doTot'iard « S3U fra« ft, general pro- which, however, we § y. • y at all necessary that the cess of chronic inflammation ft nJ n<h at^^ ^ c(;ndition ^ walls should bei thinnei ^1 wall py tpe formation of soft, grey which there is thicken m0 nUantprl esnecially when it affects material (as doseribedhatbs tart t0 ,t. forma- the middle coat, appears alg0 been sometimes regarded as°ndue to^nstitational syphilis by those who attribute chrome hand, to overlook the share taxe^ .g for com. or strain in l^^fo women far commoner in men who go moner m men than i than in those who live sedentary through violent muscular exer tion than m ^ hardly met lives; and aneurism o 1 h have been exposed to some with in young Pe//?fXmon am!ng porters, sailors, and espe- severe exertion. It is comm ^ Xch can be set down as ciallv soldiers. Now all tlie a]s0 he regarded as producing excessive vascular ens ® therefore, impossible to causes of chrome arteritis. It seems,CAUSES OF ANEURISM. 383 determine whether the excessive pressure acts directly by causing dilatation, or indirectly by causing arterial disease which favours dilatation. At all events, the localization of the disease must be determined by the state of the vascular wall; while the excessive tension will act as a general predisposing cause. Laceration of the Coats.—The laceration of the internal coat of the artery may occur at the early stages of the diseases, and be the first exciting cause of the aneurismal tumour. The aorta of a lady, whose case is detailed by Mr. Hodgson,* illustrated this mode of the formation of aneurism. The coats of the vessel were diseased, and presented at the arch a transverse rent, about an mcli in length, which had penetrated to the middle coat. The blood had insinuated itself between the middle and external coats, the latter of which was elevated into a tumour, about two inches in cu-cumference. A similar appearance was found in the body of George II. We see no difficulty in regard to this view of the occasional origin of aneurism. That the early stages should not often be presented to us m the dead subject, is easily accounted for by the rapid distension that will take place after the first lacera- fion, and the equally rapid laminated deposit of the defensive h brine. Rokitansky, however, denies this mode of origin alto- gether, stating that no such rent is ever detected. Another ques- tion is whether laceration of an artery ever occurs without some previous derangement in its coats, in what is termed the traumatic a'le’,m?m’.Wlthout a Penetrating wound. The extreme pliability and elasticity of the arterial system, compared with all the tissues that surround it, might alone suffice to answer the question , but the direct physiological experiments performed by Mr. Hodgson and Mr. Hunter, and Sir Everard Home.f as well as the pathological observations by the former,! positively determine the point m the negative. Mr. Hodgson states that he has repeat- ly tried, in imitation of Richerand, to produce a laceration of he internal and middle coats of the popliteal artery, by violently extending the leg upon the thigh ; but that he has never lacerated the coats of the artery unless the degree of violence was sufficient to rupture the hgaments of the knee, an event which certainlv cloes not generally accompany those accidents to which patients dtinDute the origin of aneurism. Embolism a Cause of Aneurism.—It has been latelv made out that certain forms of aneurism, especially those of the cerebral arteries, are m some cases due to the previous existence of embol- ism, the immediate effects of which have passed away The run cess seems to be as follows :-the artery obstructed by an embolus" at length becomes pervious again, but the wall at this point is left so permanently injured and weakened that it readily dilates into * “On the Arteries,” pp. 89 and 63. l^e,^„r?p°;440f a B0Ci6ty f°r thB Imi)rOVemont of Medical and Sulcal ICnow- t “ On the Arteries," p. 61.384 CAUSES OF ANEUBISM. Fio. 91. an aneurism. This explains the frequency of intracranial aneurism at special points, such as the middle cerebral arteries, or at hifurca- tions of the other arteries. Of course there are many such aneurisms without any history of embolism, but still there will often be a history of valvular disease accompanied by vegetations fronts of which becoming detached might produce embolisms. Spontaneous thrombosis may, of course, have similar and Contents of Aneurism.-The form of sac^ated aneu- rism is globular, but they may, partly owing to nsms is geneiauy fe accidental conaitions in the coats of the affected vessels, partly from the pressure exerted by surrounding tissues, assume an oval or more or less irregular outline. Upon the original aneurism, an evolution of secondary dilatations is sometimes met with, and these may even give rise to a further or tertiary multiplication of the disease, so as to induce a sort of mulberry appearance in the tumour ; it is the variety to which Cruveilhier has applied the term “ anevrisme sous l’aspect d’ampoules a bosselures.” . The contents of aueunsmal sacs are fibrinous coagula, which form in success- ive layers, and accordingly present a con- centric arrangement, like the annular rings in perennial plants. The resemblance may be traced still further in the gradual con- densation of the outer or external layers, o win o' to absorption and compression. These also lose their colour, and become fawn-coloured or white; while towards the interior we continue to recognize the dark colour of the blood. The accumula- tion may proceed to such an extent as to obliterate the cavity, and thus establish a spontaneous cure. A considerable amount of organization is observed to take place in some deposits, manifested by the formation of fibres. The existence of a distinct ™el?blaaneoJ® £t^hich Bizot writers to envelope the coag^um- ^ dwells forcibly, particularly drew attention, and up-u wtncn oi m in whieh The latter states that he has nevei m ^ ‘ Mr Bo^nall has this adventitious membrane , . J ^ coagula in an aneu- observed, that the membrane enveloping the coaai i ••• « “St George’s Hosp- • J W Oprle: “Trans. Path. Soc..” 1817. (iniettcM8G6. vol. i. p. 196> s** 11150 Boports," 186”, p. 38B; “MeM ™ f"d O112. Church; “ Trans. Path. Boo.,” vol. a. P i Aneurism of the posterior tibial artery, with the nerve spread over the hack part of the pouch ; the sac is entirely obliterated by con- centric layers of fibrine, growing paler towards the surface. (St. George’s Museum, F. 41.)385 STATISTICS OF ANEURISM. rism, though apparently of exactly the same nature as that lining the arteries, differs from it in not presenting any epithelium. This so-called membrane is in fact the condensed external layer of the coagulum, similar to that which forms on the surface of old clots Fio. 92. Section of the arch of an aorta, with an aneurism arising from its upper part. The cavity of the sac is nearly filled by laminated coagulum, the internal membrane of the artery is thickened. The sac presses against the trachea, the aiteria innominata, and the right carotid and subclavian arteries. (St. Bartholomew’s Museum, Series xiii. No. 11.) in veins. It is not, properly speaking, organized. The coagula form in proportion as the sac is cut off from the rest of the circu- lation ; the more shallow it is, and therefore the more exposed to the force of the current, the less the liability to the formation of fibrinous laminae, and the less, we may also add, the coincident danger of perforation of the coats of the vessel. It is through the agency of this deposit that a spontaneous cure may take place, either by an obliteration of the sac, or by pressure upon the artery' and consequent obliteration of its channel. The coagula may subsequently undergo secondary metamorphoses, such as a conver- sion into cholesterine, or cretaceous matter. But they do not always form, and we may meet with a series of aneurisms on the same vessel, some of which present coagula, while others are empty. Statistics of Aneurism.—In number and size thore is a great diversity, as also with regard to the liability of different arteries to be affected, as well as in respect of sex. The following table c cSTATISTICS OF ANEURISM. 3SG contains an analysis of sixty-three cases, examined by Mr. Hodg- son, which illustrates the last two points. It shows at once the great liability of the male sex, and the prevailing tendency of certain arteries to be affected : Ascending aorta, innoininata and arch of the aorta . Femoral and popliteal Inguinal Descending aorta Subclavian and axillary .... Carotid Stales. Females. Total. 16 5 21 14 i 15 12 0 12 7 1 8 5 0 5 9 0 2 .— — 56 7 63 Bizot’s statistics agree closely with those of ^• Hod?son as to the different liability of the two sexes; out of 189 analyzed by him, 171 occurred in men, and eighteen m women, which rs even more in favour of the latter than Mr. Hodgson s table. Thepro. clivity to aneurism is also determined by the age of mdi^dnal^ it is unknown to childhood ; the greatest tendency to the disease exists at the middle period of life, as shown by the following analysis of 108 cases : From 10 to 19 vears 1 subject j From 50 to 59 years 14 subjects. 20 29" „ 15 „ I ,, 60 „ 69 „ 8 So; 39 ;; 35 „ : „ ™g „ 40 49 ,, 31 - ' 80 ,, 89 „ - » Dr Crisn t found in 551 cases collected from journals and 364 ±Jl‘ 1 ' -r . j TV T,-.4-1-wx -Prill mm Tl O’ BiniinftrS 1 ' ' 1 Cases in Journals. 175 59 Abdominal aorta , 137 Popliteal artery ' 66 25 23 20 Tunominate artery 18 11 7 s Other systemic arteries 2 [ 551 Museum Specimens. *207 46 50 12 9 12 3 S 10 1 4 364 » The table is essentially the Fame as that aneurisms by Tanned. It excludes aneurisms arising from bounded arteries, arranged. It excludes aneurisms arising anastomosis. „ „ 1iq \ “ Diseases of the Blood-vessels, !S4i, p- U3.387 CONSEQUENCES OF ANEURISM. Effects produced by Aneurisms.—As an aneurism enlarges it necessarily displaces the adjoining tissues, and causes an absorp- tion of those that offer any resistance. The danger of an aneurismal tumour depends upon its site and upon its vicinity to vital organs whose functions are liable to be interfered with by pressure. It is thus that aneurism occurring in the thorax and in the regions of the neck threatens life, before the arterial disease has put on any dangerous appearance, by narrowing the trachea, by compressing the oesophagus or other vessels. The extent to which absorption prepares a passage to an advancing aneurism is in some cases extraordinary; an aortic aneurism by this process may pass through the thorax or eat into the vertebral column. In these cases, as Eokitansky describes, not only the bone is destroyed but the aneurismal sac itself becomes fused with the periosteum, and the other fibrous structures that usually invest the bones. In this way the exposed vertebral column may constitute a portion of the aneurismal wall. Sometimes we meet with a bone, such as a rib crossing the cavity of the aneurism, and attached only at the ends ; the bone being at the same time denuded of periosteum. This paradoxical result is thus produced. The aneurism pressing on the rib causes absorption of the adjacent portion of periosteum and pushes the remainder off the bone, till the membrane forms part of the aneurismal wall; while the cavity, extending itself on both sides of the bone becomes continuous behind it. Hodgson* has pointed out, that as the aneurism advances to the surface of the body, it induces sloughing of the integuments, and an eschar forming on the tumour itself, its discharge gives rise to fatal haemorrhage ; the same is the case when the aneurism opens into a cavity lined with mucous membrane. But a different result takes place when the sac projects into a serous cavity ; in this case the membranes do not slough, but the pariet-es of the tumour become softened and thinned, and a laceration is effected. If a rupture of the internal and middle coats alone takes place, the external coat remaining entire, the blood may separate the latter to a greater or less extent without forming a sac; it then causes what has been termed by Laennec, the dissecting aneurism. Cure of Aneurism.—Nothing has been added by later writers to the observations of Mr. Hodgson on the subject of the spontaneous cure of aneurism, and we cannot do better than to’extract his own terse summary of the subject: first, the whole tumour may be removed by sphacelation, in consequence of extreme inflammation excited by the distension of the surrounding parts ; secondly, the tumour, as we have already had occasion to observe, may assume such a position as to obliterate, by its pressuro, the superior or inferior portion of the artery communicating with the sac; and thirdly, the gradual deposition of fibrine in the sac and the artery leading to it, may render them impervious, and allow a subsequent * “ The Diseases of the Arteries,” &c., p. 35.388 DISTRIBUTION OF ANEURISMS. process by which tho tumour is removed. In the latter cases a gradual absorption of its contents takes place, the tumour becomes harder and smaller, and the establishment of a collateral circulation restores the balance of the circulation. Distribution of Aneurisms.—Before quitting the subject of aneurism, we must allude to certain peculiarities in connection with its occurrence in different parts of the arterial system. We have seen that aneurisms are almost limited to arteries of the largest size ; in smaller arteries, as in the radial and ulnar or tibials, they are rarely met with. They are altogether extremely rare in the upper extremity, they here almost invariably arise from carelessness in venesection, especially if, as on the Continent, a spring-lancet is employed. In such a case the result generally is a communication between the brachial artery and a cubital vein, especially the basilic, forming what is called varicose aneurism. Cases of spontaneous aneurism of the upper extremity are, how- ever, occasionally met with. One recorded by Dr. J. W. Ogle is ascribed by him to the effects of embolism. The smallest arteries in which spontaneous aneurism is met with are the coronary of the heart and the cerebral. An instance of the former, which is extremely rare, is reported in the Records of the Pathological Society for 1848; it was discovered by Dr. Peacock in a man aged fifty-one, who had presented no symptoms of cardiac disease before death. The tumour occupied the left coronary artery, and was about the size of a pigeon’s egg, containing lacerated coagula, which were intimately adherent to the lining membrane. There was some atheroma in the aorta. Dr. J. W. Ogle has collected a certain number of similar instances, in most of which the aneurism burst into the pericardium.* _ . Intracranial Aneurism.—Aneurism of the cerebral arteries, though not common, has of late been shown to be more frequent than was at one time supposed. It is generally seated at or near some part of the circle of Willis; it may attain the size of a walnut, and more, though it is commonly smaller; it is met with chiefly between the age of forty and fifty. Here, too, the male sex presents a much greater liability than the female ; showmg that the former manifestly possess a'marked tendency to the disease, and that the increased tendency is not due to accidental circumstances. \\e find two good Distances of aneurism of the cerebral arteries m the Reports of the Pathological Society, presented by Dr. Haref and Dr RoeJ ; the one in the left posterior communicating artery, the other in the anterior cerebral; this one of unusual size, being as large as a hen’s egg, had caused partial absorption of the sphenoid bone upon which it rested, and a flattening of the adjoining portion* of the brain. Both the cases alluded to occurred in females ; and 0 “ St. George’s Hospital Reports,” 1867, p. 285. Dr. Cn«p lection of cases. ” Trans. Path. Soc.,” 1S71, \ol. xxu. p. It ■ + Report, 1819-50, p. 169. t Ibid. lSSu-51, p. 16. has made a similar col-389 DISTRIBUTION OF ANEURISMS. Dr. Roe’s case ivas still further remarkable from its affecting the patient at the early age of twenty-one. Dr. Brinton,* from an analysis of about forty well-authenticated cases of cerebral aneurism, finds that three-eighths terminate in rupture, one- eighth from simple loss of functions by pressure, one-eighth by convulsive attacks, one-eighth by congestion or haemorrhage of the brain, one-eighth by inflammatory conditions of the brain, and one-eighth by coincident disorders or accidents. In three instances Dr. Brinton found the aneurisms more than one in number; in one instance three were found; in one the opposite carotids were symmetrically affected. These aneurisms sometimes occur in young persons, even at the age of thirteen, and when the arteries generally are healthy. Dr. Church f has collected twelve instances in persons under twenty, in the majority of which there were vegetations on the cardiac valves, and there is therefore a certain probability of their being due to embolism, especially as they generally occur at those situations on the arteries which are also often the seat of embolisms. Visceral Aneurisms.—Aneurisms of the coeliac axis, of the mesen- teric, hepatic, renal, and other visceral arteries are occasionally met with. Aneurisms of the pulmonary artery and its branches are very uncommon, as is advanced atheromatous disease of these vessels. The only recorded cases have occurred in vomicte produced by phthisis, and have often led to fatal htemorrhage. The injury to, or inflammation of, the arterial wall caused by the breaking down of the lung tissue must be regarded as producing the aneurismal dilatation. Although observed as long ago as 1841 by Bearn, j they have been till lately almost overlooked, at least in this country. Dr. Douglas Powell § has found that such aneurisms or aneurismal dilatations exist in a large proportion of cases of fatal haemorrhage in advanced phthisis. Miliar// Aneurisms.—Beside these larger aneurisms, we must again refer to the minute “miliary” aneurisms of Charcot and Bouchard, || before described as occurring in the brain. They are however not confined to the brain or meninges, though most numerous there, being occasionally found when searched for in other parts, as in the retina, on the surface of the heart, and in the submucous tissue of the oesophagus, intestines, and bladder. Biff use or Traumatic Aneurism.—The, mechanical injury of an artery may cause the effusion of blood into the surrounding parts which constitutes what has been termed diffuse false aneurism. It generally produces gangrene; but inflammatory reaction may be v,o!- “Contributions to Cerebral Patho- lender; Ibid. vol. ni. p. 433. ther eases in “ Trans. Path. Soc.,” vol. xvii. p 79 t. p. lOo, vol. xxu. p. 37. des Andvrismes Miliaires.” Paris, 1871. * Report, 1850-51, p. 48. + “St. Barth. Hosp. Report? logy. » ibid, voi iv p, 142, Cal X “Lancet,” Feb., 1841. O vol. xviii. pp, 45 and 55, vol. x? § Ibid. vol. xxii. p. 41. li Liouville: “ Generalisation390 DISSECTING ANEURISM. set up, and establish definite limits, and thus lead to the formation of an aneurismal sac. It is manifest that this, as well as the aneurismal varix, of which we have already spoken, has no patho- logical relation to the disease of which we have been treating. DISSECTING ANEURISM. We sometimes meet with small ecchymoses under the lining membrane of the aorta in the dead body,, which indicate the com- mencement of this form of aneurism. A minute and sometimes imperceptible fissure in the inner coat allows of the permeation of a small quantity of blood, and the first step having occurred, a suc- cession of similar deposits may soon cause a greater accumulation, and necessarily a coincident separation of the coats. True dissecting aneurism is not common, and is hardly ever seen except on the aorta. It arises from rupture of the inner and middle coats, and the blood after forcing its way between the middle and outer coats, forms a sac, limited externally by the latter, around the artery itself. This generally bursts externally, but has been known in rare cases to open again into the artery at some point lower down, so as to form a sort of second channel. The structures called dissecting aneurisms in the brain* are some- what different ; their peculiarities depend upon the special cha- racters of the cerebral vessels. The outer coat or adventitia is hero somewhat loosely attached, and a space is left between it and the other coats, which, being supposed to be connected with the lymphatic system, has been called a lymphatic space, while the adventitia has been called a perivascular sheath, names which have led to some confusion. Haemorrhage, perhaps by “ diapedesis,” seems to take place very readily into this space in all kypersemic conditions of the brain, and a small clot is formed around the vessel, but as there is no reason to believe that fluid blood remains in the space, or that the mass enlarges after it is once formed, it is plainly something very different from an aneurism. The blood effused soon degenerates or becomes absorbed, and a few yellow granules may alone remain as evidence of the haemorrhage- The sheaths may doubtless become ruptured and produce more ex ten- give*haemorrhage, but this does not seem often to happen. When hiemorrhage has already taken place the shock and destruction of tissue may produce very numerous perivascular haemorrhages ot this kind. * Eirst described by Virchow and KCSlliker.CHAPTER XXV. THROMBOSIS AND EMBOLISM. The fact of the coagulation of blood in the vessels during life is one of so much importance as to require special consideration. To this process the term Thrombosis (Gr. dpopficacns, curdling or coagulation) has been applied; and a clot formed some time before death is called a thrombus, to distinguish it from those formed after death or when death is approaching. Such clots may be found in the heart, the veins, arteries, or capillaries; but they occur in veins far more frequently than elsewhere. A thrombus is known from a post-mortem clot either from some changes having taken place in it since its formation, or else by a heterogeneousness of composition which shows that it was not all formed at one time ; or possibly by some peculiarity showing that it was formed while the blood was in motion. In the absence of all these characters it is still possible that a clot may have been formed before death; but we shall not be able to prove it. The changes which take place in clots after their formation are such as adhesion to the walls of the vessel, rearrangement of their constituents, and either hardening and drying up or softening and liquefaction. The process called organization may be the final stage. The rearrangement of the constituents of the clot is shown by the centre becoming decolorized, and by the surface becoming covered with a whitish granular layer, composed chiefly of leucocytes. The latter change may occur without the others, and is of itself enough to show that the clot has existed some little time, i.e., that it is a thrombus. Sometimes a clot is found to be distinctly heterogeneous or stratified, and composed of layers which are not wholly alike. This shows that it was not all formed at one time, and is, of course, positive evidence that great part at least was formed before death. Varieties of Thrombi.—A thrombus which remains fixed at the spot where it was formed is called primitive. If coagulation spread gradually from this original point along the vessel we get a prolonged thrombus. In veins the process advances in the direc- tion of tho heart as far as the opening of the vessel into a larger392 Timoiriiosis. vein ; in arteries it more often spreads from a main trunk into the branches, but may also extend backwards towards the heart. Thus spreading it may either partially or wholly obstruct the vessel, which it will in the latter case completely fill. The end towards the heart will, in any case, be rounded or bluntly conical. Secondary thrombus is a term sometimes used for coagulation which is the result of inflammation; sometimes, and more properly when the coagulation spreads from one set of vessels to another, as from arteries to capillaries and veins, from capillaries to veins or arteries, &c. Thrombi may also be divided into stratified and unstratified. The latter are formed by the sudden coagulation of all the blood in a vessel, as happens after ligature. The corpuscles of' both kinds and other constituents will here be, at least in the first place, uni- formly distributed. The latter are produced by slow coagulation in successive stages. On section they are found to be composed of layers, and to contain an unusual number of white corpuscles, strata of which alternate with strata of red corpuscles and fibrin. The layers are seldom perfectly parallel to each other or to the walls of the vessel. Thrombosis in different Classes of Vessels.—Local coagulation of blood in the vessels requires special consideration according as it affects veins, arteries, or capillaries. In thrombosis of veins coagulation of blood may be produced, (1) by a general cause ; (2) by some special cause. (1) The best ascertained general causes are retardation of the whole systemic circulation (as, for instance,- from feeble action of the heart) and morbid alterations in the composition of the blood. It is easy to see how any obstruction of the general circulation must cause stagnation of the blood current in the veins, and so favour coagulation; this result is, however, not very often met with as a simple consequence of disease of the heart, but more often when the heart’s action is enfeebled by some wasting disease; in which case other causes doubtless co-operate with the simple retardation. Such cases are with difficulty separated from those in which coagulation is ascribed to some change in the composi- tion of the blood. Thickening of the blood from loss of its serum (as in cholera); increase in the number of white corpuscles (as leuchsemia); the more obscure changes caused by fevers as typhus, are all instances of such predisposing conditions. At the same time, we would point out that this explanation must be used with caution, for such a cause if actually operating ought to produce general coagulation, or at least simultaneous coagulation in several parts of the body; and even the latter is not very often observed. Another probable general cause not vet proved with certainty to be an actual one, is the introduction of some poison into the blood, or its generation there, as the hypothetical poison of pyaemia. (2) Special or local causes are far more efficient in producing coagulation in veins. Of these pressure is the most common .393 THROMBOSIS. and a familiar instance is the binding of the arm after the opera- ■ fron of venesection. Pressure of tumours, inflammatory or indura- • five growths, abnormal pressure of the viscera themselves, as the • P^'10 Viscera in females, or the abdominal organs in either sex, often lead to coagulation in the deep pelvic and abdominal ■ y0111®' -Dilatation or a varicose condition of the veins, by retard- 1 the current may have the same effect. Other morbid concli- ! - ns tbo walls are> in the case of veins, of very subordinate ?i !?C6' • b)lsease> especially inflammation in the organs from ' Y^10!1 the vems anso, frequently causes coagulation. The most familiar instances are thrombosis of the renal veins in cases of bright s disease of the kidneys, and of the uterine or other veins in inflammation of the uterus or its appendages. Inflammation of the tissues surrounding a vein, or of the wall of the vein itself, is • not less likely to produce the same result. Finally, we must not omit to point out a possible occurrence, once thought to be fi-e- viz-’ the entrance into "matter * ™6 COntents of aa abscess or other collection of morbid In afr cases of thrombosis, the extension of coagulation to con- 1RUSt disregarded. Thus thrombosis of a ^vfryi Tem leaC-‘S firSt t0 a Pr°jection of the clot into the cavitj of the larger vein into which it opens, and then to the Et^btT^r TUnd °f aaother clot which may finally com- 1 P1 tely block the larger vessel. Thrombi which block up the ten0^8 USrIly arise in tbis way- Moreover, obftr'uc- n ,■ aU arteryby. whatever cause produced, may lead to coagu- SpSSZff1' - «• h»TArtTlT8Af ^^--Coagulation of blood in the arteries may or some'fdber nf VOm8 by pressure’ by feebleness of circulation, out irtdcb ^P, the causes, special or general, acting from with- monlvi ft Z mentioned in the case of veins; but more com- If we 1 p-i vp d fcerrauied P/ the condition of the arterial waU itself, queme o/pX 1°f COasideratloa the thrombosis which is a conse- mp r , sm’ tbls 1S, in fact, by far the most frequent cause, of which I t Pr°CeSf °f G;hr<ailc iadammation or atheroma, irterial wohSpoken, ekiewhcre, the inner surface of the the vciel as a w" T8?’ ^ acts uPon. the blood contained in iviv nro L, -, i f ’ , body and causes its coagulation. In this idherfto hS }arg6r prten!f isolated masses of clot, which micro t° the walls. In smaller arteries it will be likelv fo JueutU^in^l^0*1011 ’ a result which may obviously occur subse-394 FURTHER METAMORPHOSES OF THROMBI. precipitation of fibrin upon them. The cerebral arteries and tbe coronary arteries of tbe heart have been found blocked up by a similar process. It is easy to see bow in all such cases a clot once formed will extend by causing coagulation of fresh layers of blood upon itself; and in this way spread through the whole diameter and length of one artery as well as into its branches. Obstruction seems, however, to be sometimes effected very suddenly by these means in the smaller arteries. Thrombosis of the coronari ai tones of the heart has been known to cause sudden death ; and thrombosis of the cerebral arteries sudden hemiplegia, or a “ paralytic stroke. In the greater number of cases, however, obstruction of artene» is caused by the impaction of a mass carried from a distance, or embolism, which we shall speak of directly. This may, of course, and often does, give rise to thrombosis, a clot extending m one or both directions from the embolus, after the manner of what we have called a secondary thrombus._ The extent of this will depend upon the amount of collateral circulation, the situation oi the branches, and also upon the rigidity or elasticity of the walls. If they are very elastic they will contract, forcing the blood out of them, and thus none will be left to form a clot; but if they are rigid, the vessels will not become emptied, and a long thrombus may be produced. . ... - , , Thrombosis of Capillaries.—Coagulation m the capillaries of a certain area may be the consequence of obstruction either m the artery leading to the spot or the vein leading from it. it may also be the consequence of some condition operating m the blood, and is a constant occurrence in septicaemia or pyaemia. It has m these diseases been attributed by some to a chemical change m the blood, by others to the presence of minute organisms (bactena), which block the capillaries. . _ , Consequences of Thrombosis.—Thrombosis of vems Pr0<™c®® chiefly oedema of the part from which the vein proceeds. Thus the feet and legs swell in the disease known as phkgmasiw arn dolens, in which the femoral and iliac vems are coagul i • Thrombosis of an artery produces m the part supplied y vessel a series of changes identical with those produced by embol ism, and which may therefore be considered hereafter. FURTHER METAMORPHOSES OF THROMBI. Softening and organization are the most important .modifications which thrombi ultimately undergo, boftemug was confounded with suppuration, but was shown by M • ’ 1839, to be really a distinct process; it has sumebeenvery. studied by Virchow.* It occurs chiefly or solely m stratum*! * Gulliver: “ On the Softening ' 95™"epr^U'd7rom “ Zeitsch. !{ ,-i; Vivnhnw ■ “ Gesammelte Abhandlungen, lt»0, P- • > I xxil. Virchow - fill'. Rat. Me<l.,” 1816.395 FURTHER METAMORPHOSES OF THROMBI. : thrombi, in which a limited portion of the centre becomes first • pale, soft, and crumbling, and is then transformed to a thick, 11 creamy fluid, much resembling pus to the naked eye. It contains, however, few leucocytes or formed elements, consisting chiefly of albuminous and fatty molecules. In rare cases something like s actual pus, with abundance of corpuscles, is found. This process < occurs frequently in thrombi of veins, and almost always in those of the heart; it often leads to the detachment of embolic masses. Organization occurs chiefly in homogeneous, unstratified thrombi . in healthy vessels, more frequently in arteries than veins; it is the c Ordinary termination of thrombosis from wound or ligature. The : thrombus becomes first of all very closely adherent to the vascular wall, it then partially loses its colour, and becomes in part con- 1 verted into a yellowish mass, similar to the inner coat of the v vessel. In this mass are subsequently formed blood-vessels and t bands of connective tissue which completely replace the original mass, and themselves ultimately disappear or become reduced to v very small dimensions. The processes of vascularization and con- v version into fibrous tissue are somewhat complicated,, and have been _ described in very different terms by different observers. 1 0. Weber, with whom Eindfleisch agrees, attributed organization to the proliferation and development of the leucocytes in the clot .'itself. These were supposed to become united into a network p similar to that formed by the corpuscles of connective tissue and their prolongations ; while the red corpuscles and fibrin represented intercellular substance. The capillaries were believed to be : mostly derived from the still permeable part of the vessel, a few connections only being formed with the vasa vasorum. It is as a matter of fact usually possible, when a thrombus is in process of r®11" organized, to inject its capillaries from the main vessel; but the production of vessels has been of late exjilained in a very different way. ! According to the latest observers, the organization of the throm- p bus is effected by changes in the epitheHum of the vessel and the 1 connective-tissue cells. of the inner coat. Both these classes of ■ elements proliferate within a few hours, and form spindle-shaped or fibro-plastic cells, which afterwards become transformed into f vessels and connective tissue. As the thrombus becomes per- : meated with newly-formed capillaries the fibrin and corpuscles simply liquefy and disappear, so that the process is rather a sub- stitution of newly-formed vascular tissue for the clot than a trans- : formation of it. The young vessels become connected with those of the middle and outer coats of the vessel, so that a complete cir- [ -elation is established, and subsequently enter into communica- tion with the still open cavity of the vessel. Other observers have attributed great importance to tho activity ot leucocytes, or migratory cells, which are supposed to make their pAy from tho vasa vasorum, and from the blood still circulating in me vessel itself into tho interior of the thrombus. It has indeod396 EMBOLISM. been shown that such a process actually takes place, though its importance is uncertain. It will thus be seen that though the organization of blood, clot was traced long ago in its main features by Hunter, its minute characters are far from satisfactorily settled. Finally, either the walls become adherent all round, and the vessel is obliterated; or else more rarely an opening or canal remains, through which the circulation is carried on. Canalization of Thrombi— Clots which have become organized in the manner just described become perforated by openings, through which the circulation is re-established. These openings seem "to be formed by absorption of areas between the newly- formed vessels and fibrous bands. A similar perforation, though not produced in the same way, is seen as a consequence of simple softening. In both cases the circulation may be restored, though probably the vessel never completely returns to its former state. Calcification of thrombi is seen occasionally in veins. _ In such cases the clot is doubtless never organized, but the details of the process are not known. In this way are formed the phlebohtlie-, or vein-stones, which are not unfrequently seen in the deep veins and plexuses of the pelvic viscera, or less frequently elsewhere. EMBOLISM. By embolism * is understood the obstruction of vessels by masses brought from a distance and carried along by the blood current till they arrive at a channel too narrow to let them pass. It foriows by definition that this process can only occur in arteries, capil- laries, or in the divisions of the portal vein. The objects which most frequently serve as emboli or blocks, are fragments of dislodged or crumbling thrombi from veins similar fragments from another part of the same artery, or from the heart, and fragments of fibrin or vegetations detached from the valves ol the heart. More rarely pieces of new growth, parasites, or foreign bodies. Emboli derived from the systemic veins of course pass through the heart into the pulmonary circulation, as do those derived from the right side of the heart; while blocks m the Sys- temic circulation can only come from the heart some part of the arterial system, or the pulmonary veins. Emboli of the port system of course become arrested m some ramification of the poitai vein within the liver. . ,, The importance of the embolic process depends upon the nature and size of the obstructing mass, as well as upon the part ot ui body supplied by the obstructed vessel. . . ^ A mass of simple clot coming from a systemic be large enough, become entangled in the valves of the heart, o * Etymology from Greek iV/SoNoc = a something throstin.a pl^OT 8* opr er, = the process of thrusting in or pining. But in Lugiuu wc embolism instead of embolus for the object itself, the 11 g-397 EMBOLISM. K block up the trunk of the pulmonary artery, or one of its main :i1 branches, causing sudden death; if smaller it will interrupt the j t circulation in a portion of the lung, producing resiilts to be pre- sently discussed. Simple blocking of the systemic arteries will produce gangrene, haemorrhage, dry necrosis, or other changes, i a accoi'ding to circumstances. ! On the other hand, a clot coming from a vein in a part of the bbody where there is inflammation, especially inflammation of a j,-certain kind, may set up inflammatory and destructive processes in the part where it becomes arrested. This is the case in pyaemia, . and hence the embolic process is a most important part of the jtmachinery of pyaemia. Again, emboli composed of new growth may - set up a similar secondary new growth in the parts to which they . are distributed, and hence this process is one of the means by which the generalization of new growths is effected. The further consequences and symptoms of embolism will obviously depend upon the functions of that part of the body whose blood supply is cut off. The mechanism of the process has been chiefly explained by Yirchow and Kirkes, but some points have lately been elucidated by Cohnheim. * Secondary Changes in the parts affected with Ernbolism.—When a part of the body has its blood supply suddenly cut off, the follow- ing may be the consequences :— 1. No permanent effects follow if there is a sufficient collateral circulation by anastomosing arteries to furnish an adequate blood supply. _ In this case the only result is that the portion of artery intervening between the embolus and the next branch becomes obliterated. _ This may occur- in blocking of the cerebral arteries -before the circle of Willis, of the larger branches of the pulmonary artery, or of any arteries in the skin, muscles, digestive tract, glands, bones, joints, and other parts where the anastomotic : arrangements are complete. 2. If, on the ether hand, the artery is, in Oohnheim’s words, “ a >terminal artery,” that is to say, without any anastomosis, and -communicating solely with capillaries, the blood supply is not restored, and the consequence is either (a) necrosis of the part supplied, or (b) engorgement followed by hemorrhage, forming on a Tr aCe ecchym°sis, in deeply situated organs infarctions. ■ i-L*3rSans which these processes are likely to occur are five ; tiz., the spleen, the kidneys, the retina, the brain, and the luns's’ (C<\ mWese “ terminal ” arteries are found. («) Simple necrosis occurs in organs secluded from the air when ue secondary changes of engorgement and hemorrhage are not uperadded. It is seen most frequently in the brain; as for blocking 0f the middle cerebral artery. In parts -vpastu to the air the necrosis becomes gangreue (if, as before '“oOrgement and hemorrhage are absent). This is seen in block- Untersuchungen tlber die Embolisehen Processe.” Beilin, 1872.398 EMBOLISM. ins? of an artery of tlie leg, if the collateral circulation he inadequate. It also occurs, though rarely, m the lung, where engorgement and haemorrhage usually follow. f b) Engorgement and haemorrhage are the usual consequences of blocking of an artery in the sx»leen, kidneys, retina, or lungs, and sometimes in the brain. Engorgement is caused by regur- gitation of blood from the veins. When the blood current from the heart is stopped, and the vis a tergo of the blood current annihilated, the pressure from the capillaries into the veins becomes less than the backward pressure from the veins into the capillaries, till ultimately (provided there are no valves in the °fn (“Gener^ pathoiog*j explameddby impossible to conceive that hemorrhage L caused merely by excessive tension, since the pressure caused by re^gitation could hardly be greater than the normal arterial pressure” Cohnheim explains it to be a consequence of the alterations in the structure, or, m fact, necrosis of Lhe walk ■ ^capillaries caused ITZ tis°suesCanTh s was established by’experiments on tie tongue orithe 2*1 fook pl^from the capillaries. Thus in the region of an then took plaoit t venous blood COmes mto a system of embolus, the ieD g already iniured or necrotic from capillaries, the waUs of jh^h ^ afr:ea^ j ^ permit the absence of a^MllWood, an be founded extravasation of red “rpuscies. ^ inflammation } Erom this - with emigiati , certain time is necessary for the pro- ggSSRSJX.i imd, » feot, w M**i»“*>»f * quite recent emkolus,^^/^^en^oTgement^ad hiemorrlrege The region thus affected with en <jt s0.called hemorrhagic presents a P^^Xck^'Sch ’nSy be summarily described as a infarctus 01 block, ' ±-up ivlse situated towards the wedge-shaped or pyramidal blackish red outer surface of the oigan, ‘P ,• xittie above the level of colour-, hard^consistence, on the capil- the surrounding paits. , ultima tel v coagulates), and laries being They can ] the tissue being infiltratedL with extravaswea ^ and Teins I SLut varies11; Smon^y in the spleen, kidneys, and lungs, and but rarely in the brain.399 EMBOLISM. Variations are produced by accidental circumstances, such as position, influencing the venous circulation,' the force of the heart, the possible coagulation of blood in the veins, and the like. It should not be forgotten that total obstruction of an artery by t thrombosis will have the same consequences as when it is pro- duced by an embolus. Partial obstruction appears to produce . gradual necrosis rather than hremorrhagic infarction. In the retina the shape of the organ and the arrangement of the vessels lead to a superficial ecchymosis being produced instead of a 1 wedge-shaped block. Subsequent Transformation of the Hcemorrliagic Infarctus—- • Engorgement and iuemorrhage do not avert, though they may delay, the necrosis which is the necessary consequence of inter- rupted nutrition. Hence a hremorrhagic block passes through a ' series of necrobiotic changes ending with absorption. The central parts become pale, crumbling, and ultimately soft; and this change extends towards the periphery; on the other hand, the parts immediately surrounding the block become inflamed, and fibrous tissue is produced, which may form something resembling a capsule. The changes much resemble those of actual thrombi. * -e central parts may soften into puriform matter, but true sup- I pniation does not occur; ultimately nothing remains but a cica- . tncial mass of newly- formed tissue, which by its contraction and - shrivelling usually forms a depression on the surface of the organ.CHAPTER XXYI. DISEASES OF THE VEINS. INFLAMMATION OF YEINS. This condition was once thought to possess a much greater import- ance than we now assign to it, since it was regarded as the chief cause of coagulation in the veins ; and, m fact, the term 1 hlebitusl was used to mean precisely what we have elsewhere (following Virchow") called Thrombosis. The two phenomena, inflammation and coagulation, are very frequently found .occurring together, but it is now known that in nearly all such cases, the coagulation determines the inflammation. It is, however, often impossible, at the stage at which the phenomena come under our observation, to decide the question of priority. Primary inflammation, or phlebitis, may be acute or chronic. _ Acute phlebitis is produced by direct injury, by inflammation m surrounding parts, by perforation of the wall by pus or sanies, or especially by coagulation withm the vein. Ihe inflammation produced by these causes is chiefly developed in the middle and outer coats forming the mesophlebitis and periphlebitis of I irehow. SpSitL, or inflammation ot tie inner coat, is hordlj seer, m au acute form, except as a consequence of the coagulation of blood in the vein Since as, in arteries, the middle and outer coats are the only vascular parts, they will naturally be most readily affected by inflammation, and show its phenomena most.distinctly. 5There is vivid injection of the outer coat, sometimes with extravasation ; and less pronounced redness of the middle tunic which may be visible through the inner. The walls are miub ^llen thickened, and infiltrated with serous or purulent exuda- tion The cavity becomes at the same time dilated from parall els ^ the muscular fibres, so that the vein altogether appears greatly mlarged The inner coat becomes dull, opaque, easily torn and sometimes flakes off spontaneously m continuous pieces, boagu iXon of the blood contained m the vein is always found when the inflammation has reached this stage, and is doubt-ess some-401 INFLAMMATION OF VEINS. 1 times produced by phlebitis, though, as has been said,, the converse : is usually the case. The condition of the thrombus generally corresponds in some degree to the condition of the wall; so that when the latter is excessively thickened and infiltrated with purulent matter, the i thrombus will be breaking down or in the condition of puriform • softening. Endophlehitis.—While in many cases the changes just described may proceed without participation of the inner coat, in other cases important changes are seen in the latter. Abundant proliferation of the endothelial cells takes place, producing either continuous : thickening or budding masses of new growth which penetrate the ; softening thrombus. Durante * found when a single ligature was : put round a vein, the inflammatory changes were most conspicuous in the intima; but in a portion of vein enclosed between the ; ligatures the latter membrane remained passive, while all the pro- * cesses of destruction and organization went on in the other coats. These changes have, however, been traced by several other observers in inflammations produced experimentally ; and there is no doubt that they play an important part in the apparent organ- ization of thrombus and the obliteration of veins after ligature.t Bubnoff j has shown that migratory cells or leucocytes may I penetrate the venous wall from outside, and has attributed to the influence of these elements a large share in the changes iust J described. Chronic Phlebitis— Chronic inflammation of the outer coats •occurs in all probability as the sequel of acute inflammation and t thrombosis. The vein is found with its walls, especially the outer coat, thickened, and very closely adherent to the surrounding con- nective tissue, which is also indurated. The middle coat also shows ■fibrous thickening ; and there may be thickening of the inner coat, "So that the whole wall is greatly hypertrophied. The vessel is often dilated. Chronic endophlehitis resembles the corresponding process in i arteries, but is comparatively uncommon. It is seen chiefly in the veins, when the inner coat may be found yellowish opaque, thickened, and rigid. Puriform Thrombosis and Phlebitis.—When the process of throm- bosis occurs in parts which are the seat of suppurative inflamma- tion, it may, under conditions very imperfectly understood, assume •he character of what has been called suppurative phlebitis, or sup- purative thrombosis. The clot softens and breaks down in such a way as to resemble suppuration, which indeed is said in some cases actually to occur ; perhaps from the passage of pus cells through the walls into the interior of the vein. Secondary phenomena of (( * Strieker's “ Jahrblicher,” 1871-72, p. 143. +_Cornil and Ranvier: “Hist, rath.,” p. •Handbuch der Chirurgie,” vol. i. division ii. ♦ Vireh. Archiv,” xliv. p. 402. 570; Thiersch in Pitba anil Billroth’s ; Waldeyer, “ Vireh. Archiv,” xl. p. 369. D 11402 INFLAMMATION OF VEINS. the most destructive character result from this process. In this case a soft, straw-coloured spot forms m the centre of the coa- . o-ulum, the lamination of the latter disappears, until the whole is converted into a grumous mass. When portions of this mass are propelled into the circulation, the symptoms of poisoning result, and we find particles of the morbid product becoming arrested in the pulmonary circulation, and there occasioning coagulation ol the blood, or the formation of abscesses. Coagula resulting from this cause are most commonly met with in the right side of the heart, and in the distribution of the pulmonary arteries. They are laminated, and are softened in the interior, where there may be a nucleus of puriform matter. The introduction of these matters into the circulation is generally accompanied with symptoms of a general prostration of the powers, of the most intense character, which are due rather to the infection of the blood, or pyiemia, than to local results in the shape of lobular abscesses, or secondary purulent deposits in distant viscera. The local results are doubt-1 less due to the infective properties of the transported masses, since simple emboli do not produce at all the same changes; and these properties probably depend upon their being ^bued^thsome poison from the original seat of inflammation. It is thus one of the forms of pyaemia; hut an affection of tHe terns is by no between secondary deposits and local injuries Morgagni imd Desault had particularly alluded to abscesses m the ^er foUowmj cerebral lesions, hut it was reserved for Arnott and Dams to show the actual physical connection between these occurrences, and to establish the real nature of the so-called phlebitis. The iatter was the first to demonstrate that it is the pathological p e- nomenon constituting phlegmasia alba doleus, a malady accom- panyTg the puerperl state, which had previously been attributed to a reflux of the lochia, to milk depots, or to obstruction of the Ivnmhatics He showed, by a post-mortem examination of four fetal cases that it resulted from “inflammationof one or more of the principal veins within, and in the immediate neighbourhood of, Se pelms1 producing an increased thickness in their coats, coagu- lation of their contents, and occasionally a destructive suppui a ^ of their whole texture. Many cases of puerperal fevei aie m J due to infective thrombosis of the veins of the uterus, and second.ny inflammations induced thereby. This appears to have been mo particularly the case with the frightful endemic of P^/pwaUcver, & -J, very recently, to ragem thegr«t Vienna. Dr. Semelweiss made the discovery tha ■ ; d due to the introduction of poisonous matter into the to uterus of parturient women, by the medicalmena A.l - had recently been handling post-mortem specimens, me pi 1 ‘ Medico-Cliir. Trans.,” vol. XT. p. 1. + Ibid. vol. xii. p. 419.INFLAMMATION OF VEINS. 403 I precautions that have since been adopted have almost banished the 'disease.* Thus, while in 1846 there were 459 deaths among 3,354 : females, in 1848, after the employment of chlorinated solutions by • the medical attendants for their own purification, had been intro- duced, the deaths in 3,356 patients had sunk to the comparatively - small number of 45. In many cases of phlebitis and pyramic infec- ■ tion resulting from venesection, the effect has been traced to a ^similar cause, viz., the introduction of poisonous matter into the v vessel, either by the lancet, or by the use of foul sponges. It was nfrom its occurrence after phlebotomy that the attention of John Hunter was first drawn to the subject. For a long time the liver was supposed to be the only organ in which metastatic abscesses, as secondary suppurations used to be called, were found, and then only in connection with injuries of the brain. It was first shown by Arnott that no organ of the body is exempt from this lesion, though it occurs more frequently in the liver and the lungs, and next in order in the kidneys, the spleen, the heart, and superficial tissues, while it is met with but rarely in the ibrain and the cavities of the eye. The abscesses vary in number, but when found in one organ, we may expect to find them in others .also, and it is rare to meet with a solitary secondary deposit. -Thus, in a case that occurred at St. Mary’s Hospital, in a boy, in whom infective thrombosis and phlebitis” were brought on by an i accidental contusion, and death occurred within six days of the unjury, and three of the occurrence of any alarming symptoms, -secondary abscesses were found in the lungs, the heart, and the ddneys. Yelpeauf relates the case of an individual, in whom ' join fifteen to twenty abscesses were counted in the brain, from nght to ten in the lung, and purulent deposits were also found in -he kidneys, the spleen, and the liver. In addition to the cases of thrombosis and inflammation of indi- :vidual veins, already treated of, there are others to which it is :ight that we should especially advert. An inflammation of the umbilical vein in infants is mentioned by Kiwisch,J as occurriuo- xlmost epidemically; and Dr. Lee has also met with it coined - lently with the epidemic occurrence of metrophlebitis. The affec- ■ion generally commences between the second and fourth days, and s followed by peritonitis and icterus. Hr the adult we meet’with nflammation of the vena portce, which may occur idiopathically * by extension of inflammation from the mesenteric veins. It ias been seen resulting from a fish-bone penetrating through the I oats of the stomach, into the superior mesenteric; and the ases in which no such lesion could be discovered have been set own to metastatic irritation, to the irritation produced by spirit- ious beverages, suppressed haemorrhoids, gout, or erysipelas. The .* ^eDr- Routh on the “ Endemic Puerperal Fever at Vienna,” “ Med.-Cliir. Trans ” + “Revue M£dic.,” 1826, vol. x. p. 442. t “Die Krankheiten der Wochuerinnen,” Prag1. 1840, vol. i. p. 112404 INFLAMMATION OF VEINS. occurrence is marked by the appearance of what exactly resembles the formation of numerous abscesses in the substance of the liver, but which, on close examination, prove to be accumulations of pus or puriform matter in the branches of the vena porta?. The cases of this disease that are recorded are so few that we are induced to quote the following instance, which fell under our own observa- tion ; it is the more remarkable as it presents the only instance of apparently idiopathic ulceration of the trunk of the vena porta? that has been published. It occurred in J W——a labour- ing man, a patient of Dr. Alderson, at St. Mary s Hospital, vtho, seventeen days previous to admission, was seized with a shivering fit; since then he bad suffered from rigor, followed by heats and perspirations, at irregular intervals. On the 1st of October, 1852, a fortnight after admission, the skin is first reported to have been somewhat jaundiced, the pulse eighty-eight, tongue coated, loss of appetite, a burning sensation at the top of the sternum, with great depression of spirits. The yellow tinge of the skin continued, and the fits were fewer in number. On the 11th, the dulness of the hepatic region was found increased, and the stools are noted to have been dark. On the 18th, the skin was less yellow, the per- cussion of stomach and colon was tympanitic no pain no increase Section of liver exhibiting the appearances presented in inflammation of the vena portee. in the hepatic dulness. The shivering fits now returned more frequently, pleuritic symptoms supervened, the patient became more and more weak, more jaundiced, and drowsy, and sank on the 24th of October, 1852. In the thorax, the deposit of fresh lymph on the lower edge of the right lung was all the evidence ot * The case is abridged from the records of St. Mary’s Hospital.INFLAMMATION OF VEINS. 405 C- -recent disease to be found. The lungs, the heart, are noted as being healthy, so also the kidneys and the brain. The liver was found much enlarged and dark coloured, feeling soft at many points ; on removing it from the body, about two or three ounces of purulent matter escaped from the portal vein ; the organ, at the -same time, shrinking under the hand. On incising the liver, numerous bright yellow circumscribed spots appeared, closely f --resembling abscesses ; they varied in size from a pin’s head to a wal- nut. They proved to be all connected, occupying the ramifications nf the portal vein, gorged with pus, of a perfectly laudable appear- ance. On examining the portal vein, it presented close to the point at which the splenic and superior mesenteric meet, a puckered, r ulcerated appearance of its inner surface, extending for about an jnch towards the liver; the ulceration was found to have pene- trated through the inner coat, the edge of which was turned up and well defined towards the healthy part of the vein. The ducts j the hepatic vein were found healthy, as also the orifices of the 2 mesenteric and splenic veins. The surface of some of the portal tranches was smooth, and these only seemed implicated as recep- tacles for the pus, while, in others, the lining membrane was destroyed, and a layer of puriform matter substituted. The lepatic cells proved everywhere natural, the lobules were loaded vith yellow pigment in the middle, and there was marked hepatic ao. — tvuo maincu -LLCUchl/lU venous congestion, which, it may be observed, closely resembled 1 'ATI oocri nn lb« m 4-. 1 ,1 1 _ _ 1 mi Q / J *v W U «. congestion of the inter-lobular plexuses. The intestines were only tjartially examined, but so far appeared healthy. This case contra- ! licts the assertion of Rokitansky, that inflammation of the vena ioortie invariably induces purulent and ichorous abscesses in the iver, and abscesses in the lung, with a very highly developed ‘l oyaemia. No abscess was discovered either in the hepatic or pul- monary tissue, nor was there any post-mortem evidence of pyse- 1 nia> for tlle suppuration was limited, in the most remarkable manner, to the trunk and branches of the vena portre. In the cranium we meet with similar changes in the sinuses of he dura mater, as a consequence of direct injury, and not unfre- [uently as a result of otorrhcea and caries of the petrous portion or nastoid cells of the temporal bone. Cerebral thrombosis is neces- arily commonly associated with meningeal inflammation. It ■ppears that the sinuses of the dura mater are liable to a chronic orm of inflammation in children, leading to their obliteration and onversion into fibrous cords. Such a condition has been found 'Y ionnelle and by Gmtrac, in cases marked by symptoms of cere- 1 . congestion and apoplexy. The latter author * gives the fol- owuig case in illustration of this condition ; a child aged four •oars was liable from its birth to a temporary suspension of huntary movement. There were no premonitory symptoms and be attack occurred equally in the erect or recumbent position’; the aW-toSt p°2^rvati0n8’” I!ordCaUX' 183°- Quoted by Andral, “Clinique Modi-RUPTURE OF VEINS. 406 intellectual faculties were maintained, but the power of articula- tion was suspended. The child died ot pneumonia, supervening upon variola. The post-mortem examination exhibited the supe- rior longitudinal sinus converted into a hard cord, the veins in connection with which were filled with coagulated blood. The walls of the sinus were thickened, dense, and of a yellowish colour; it contained a solid clot; no further lesion was discovered m the cranium. . , ■Among the local cases of phlebitis not followed by generall infection0 of the blood, those of the hemorrhoidal veins are the! most frequent, though it is a complication much to be feared in all operative proceedings directed to their cure, as well as to that of varicose veins of the legs or spermatic cord. RUPTURE OF VEINS. Eupture of the large veins is an event veryrarelymet with; Haller* quotes a case of rupture of the vena cava inferior, attributed to eatino- ice ; but most of the instances recorded! were brought on by mechanical injury. The rupture of smaller veins often occurs as a result of sudden and forced distension. Thus small ecchymoses are frequently brought on in the conjunctiva by violent coughing. The veins of the lower extremities have been found ruptured by? spasms of the muscles of the calves. The haemorrhage that con- stitutes epistaxis, the menstrual, and heemorrhoidal discharges, is rather analogous to the process of exosmosis, than a result ot actual rupture, and therefore is rather more immediately connected with the capillary, than the venous circulation. A spontaneous rupture of larger veins occasionally results as a secondary conse- quence of varices. The sanguineous tumom-s m the labia of preg- nant and parturient women are attributable to this cause, a= a1' the laceration of varicose veins of the extremities, with or without coincident ulceration. DILATATION OF VEINS. Dilatation or varicosity of the veins is a subject attracted the attention of pathologists from the days of Hippo- crates who already distinguished between two kinds, which he termed heemorrhois and cirsus. The affection is also treated of by writers under the generic term of phlebectasis. It consists mam } in an enlargement of the calibre of the vessels, and mav or ma.+ not be accompanied by an alteration m their coats. Briquet t ; ^of rupturo of the vena cava + James ivennuuy um eooev..— - .coo inferior in “ London Medical Repository, vol. XX- t “ Histoire des Inflammations, vol. u. p. 9, el seq.407 DILATATION OF VEINS. avails himself of these differences for establishing his classification, lie assumes three varieties—simple dilatation ; uniform dilatation, i accompanied by thickening of the coats ; and irregular dilatation, with thickening or attenuation. The distension is generally owing : to some impediment being offered to the return of the blood to the i heart; and we therefore most commonly meet with it in parts in which the surrounding tissues are lax, and consequently do not offer a sufficient resistance to the pressure of the blood. Hence varicose veins are most commonly met with in the vicinity of the i rectum and pudenda, and in the lower extremities. The veins • swell, and assume a nodulated appearance and tortuous course, ’ while the increased local pressure gives rise to an hypertrophy of • the coats. Gendrin * and Briquet attribute the latter to chronic i inflammation. A necessary consequence of the dilatation is an : insufficiency of the valves, which no longer close the passage to the i regurgitating current. They suffer a solution of continuity, and i may become partially or wholly obliterated. The occurrence of ] phlebectasis has been ascribed to a peculiar constitution, which ] Hesse terms a morbid, predominance of the venous system, a venous I habit of the body, which may be characterized as one of general 1 laxity of fibre and want of tone, associated with a tendency to 1 local congestions. Age exercises a marked influence upon the occurrence and prevalence of the affection. It rarely manifests . itself in any form until puberty, and is most common during the ] prime of life, as the tendency to it gradually ceases with advancing ’ years. An hereditary predisposition may very frequently be i traced. There is also a marked difference in the two sexes in : regard to their proclivity to certain forms of the disease. Thus ' the hsemorrhoidal form is more frequently met with in the male ■ sex, and its symptoms in many instances have suggested the ■ impression that it is an analogue to the menstrual secretion in the ' female, from the periodicity of its occurrence and the relief the : flux affords to the system. In some rare cases, recorded as curi- osities by various authors,! a dilatation of the large veins in the cavities of the trunk has been observed. We must content our- : selves with alluding to the fact, and pass to the consideration of f the ordinary forms of the disease. Varicocele or Cirsocek.—This disease affects the male sex com- monly at the commencement of puberty. It consists in a dilata- tion of the veins of the spermatic cord, and prevails more on the left than the right side—a circumstance attributed to the more circuitous route taken by the left than the right spermatic vein. How rarely it affects the right side is shown by the fact, that in one hundred and twenty cases operated upon by Breschet, all but one occurred on the left. It is important, on account of the atrophy of the testicle which it is likely to induce, from its causing hsematocele, by haemorrhage into the tuniea vaginalis, and from * “ Archives OenCrales <Ie Medicine,” vol. vii. pp. 200 aud 396. t See “ Puchelt das Yenensystem," vol. ii. p. 378, et seq.408 DILATATION OF VEINS. the influence which, in common with all sexual diseases, it exerts on the mind of the patient. The form of varicosity in the female sex, corresponding to varicocele in man, is enlargement of the vaginal and pudendal veins, which, especially during the advanced periods of pregnancy, are the cause of much suffering, and may, during labour, give rise to very severe haemorrhage. Haemorrhoids.—Hseinorrhoids, or piles, were formerly thought to consist in an enlargement and varicose condition of the veins sur- rounding the anus, but are now known to be more complex in their structure. They may occur in terminal branches of the inferior mesenteric, a tributary of the portal vein, or of the internal iliac. They protrude in the form of bluish nodes, or form flat sessile tumours. From their position, and the frequent pressure and congestion they are subject to when once formed, they are liable to inflammatory attacks; in consequence of which the sur- rounding cellular tissue condenses and hardens. Small cysts are formed in the latter, into which blood is effused, and they then exhibit a complex structure, which has been the source of much disputation. Abernethy and Kirby even went so far as to deny that they were owing to varicosity of the veins, and asserted them to be mere sacculated prolongations of the condensed submucous tissue. They are, in fact, composed of convolutions of tortuous and varicose small veins, forming a sort of cavernous tissue by intercommunication; but may be combined with simple dilatation of larger veins. The sequel® to which they give rise are haemor- rhage, ulceration, and prolapsus of the rectum. The periodical character that is often observed in the sanguineous flow, is one that peculiarly deserves the attention of the physician. In man the affliction is common in persons of the middle of life, who have fol- lowed a sedentary pursuit; in women they are more apt to occur during pregnancy, and as a substitute for the menstrual discharge at the period of the climacteric. Varicose Veins of the Leg.—Of all forms of varix, none is, pro- bably. of so frequent occurrence as that which affects the super- ficial veins of the lower extremities, and more particularly tbe ramifications of the saphena. It is not peculiar to either sex, but is decidedly more common in females than males. This remark does not appear to apply to the Continent, however, for we learn from the statistics of Briquet, as well as from the statements of Hasse, that, with them, the male sex is the most liable. Another statement of Briquet, that it is more frequent in the right than in the left leg, is not confirmed by British experience. Hasse observes that, in men, the dilatation generally arises from the trunk, or the principal branches of the saphena, while he states that, in women, it commences in the minute twigs. It is especially at the ankle, and at the inner side of the popliteal space, that the veins are seen and felt, in the shape of an accumulation of tortuous vessels, of a more or less resistent feel. _ _ A varicose state of the veins of the pia mater is a condition uponOBSTRUCTION AND OBLITERATION OF VEINS. 409 which Rokitansky lays some stress, as found after repeated attacks of delirium tremens. Oculists treat of dilatation of the veins of the eye in various forms ; and instances of varix in other parts of the upper half of the body are recorded by authors. Thus, Cruveilhier * delineates two cases of varix affecting the arm. Varicose veins may prove dangerous, by giving rise to haemor- rhage, in consequence of ulceration or rupture. They are not like the arteries, subject to atheromatous disease, though occasionally they become obliterated by the formation of a coagulum, or spon- taneous inflammation and cohesion of the parietes. OBSTRUCTION AND OBLITERATION OF VEINS. An obliteration of portions of the venous system, from spon- taneous coagulation of the blood during life, is a not unfrequent occurrence, either from the pressure exerted by morbid growths, as aneurisms or cancerous tumours, or without such mechanical causes, from some cachectic condition, as, for instance, in a case of empyema that fell under our notice, in which, from the inferior cava downwards, the veins were plugged up with a fawn-coloured coagulum. They are not, however, limited to the veins of the inferior half of the body, though most frequently met with in the \ena cava inferior, and the portal vein. Dr. bright j records a case in which the longitudinal sinus was filled in a child of twenty months, another of a female aged seventeen, in whom the left jugular and subclavian veins were plugged with a firm coagulum, terminating abruptly just as they entered the cava, and a third, in a lemale aged twenty, in whom a white, fibrinous coagulum was found in the subclavian vein, extending two or three inches up the jugulars. In both the last cases the hardened veins were traced during life; the subjects were all in an extreme state of exhaus- tion. In these cases the coagulum can be easily removed from the channel of the vessel, and the coats of the latter present no evi- dence of inflammation in the shape of thickening or interstitial deposit, or roughening of the lining membrane. Another form of obliteration is that resulting from a chronic inflammation, and consequent adhesive process, set up by the advance of degenerative disease, such as tubercle or cancer. Thus Dr. Lee records two cases of abdominal phlebitis resulting from malignant disease of the uterus; and another of inflammation of the iliac veins in a man, from carcinoma, is related by Mr. Lawrence. NEW FORMATIONS. Tubercle never directly affects the vessels; it is not found deposited in the coats, nor is it found in their channels. • “ Anatomte Pathologique,” livr. xxiii. and livr. xxx + “ Medical Reports,” part ii. pp. 60, 64, 65.NEW FORMATIONS. 410 Carcinomatous and allied growths, on the other hand, are very frequently discovered within the veins as an immediate extension of the disease, external to them. This may happen by actual perfora- tion of the venous wall, hut in other cases a sort of infiltration takes place, the wall remaining entire. The growth may also arise in a thrombus formed within the vein, without any continuity with the mass outside. Thus in cancer of the stomach and liver, it has been found in the vena portm ; in renal cancer, in the correspond- ing vein and the vena cava inferior; in uterine cancer in tne \ ena cava and its branches. Few of the observers of the cases on record have verified the fact of the cancerous nature of the con- tents of the vessels by microscopic examination, and in many instances fibrinous coagula have been mistaken for cancer, when coincident with the latter. We have, however, on several occasions established the presence of actual carcinoma in the renal veins when that disease affected the kidneys, and of a round-celled sarcoma in the portal vein when a similar growth connected with the head of the pancreas j surrounded the vein. The new growth may entirely fill the | vessel, and sometimes fragments detached from it may form emboli, which being arrested m the lungs may set up secondary growths there. , . . New formation of connective tissue takes place as a thickening of the wall, but never as an isolated tumour. Almost the only form of simple tumour known to affect reins is myoma, which has been occasionally observed. Vascular tumours, or angiomata, often proceed from veins. : .a, ui “'“O — X Calcareous Deposit.— Ossification very rarely affects the veins, hut cretaceous deposits are occasionally discovered under the lining coat, as in the case of which we have given a delinea- tion. Crnveilhier relates the case of an old man who died of gangrena senilis, in whom the veins accompanying the popliteal artery were studded with phosphatic deposit. Phlebolithes. —The concretions termed vein- stones or phlebolithes, are met with free in the cavity of the vessels. They are formed of con- . • t 1. ! b 4-UihIavuoI -1 Vil 11m Calcareous deposit xnet with in the choroid plexus, where, however, in the coats of a vein. tlie f01.mation is external to the vein. 1 hey are < UiLV-Llky V.IA y oocnnu. , , l centric lamina?, of which the internal are hanl aud brittle, while those forming the outer layers present a softer consistency. They closely re- present a softer consistency. They closely re- semble the concentric corpuscles so frequently411 ENTOZOA. animal matter. The theory of their formation agrees with the mode of explanation which suggests itself for other concentric cor- puscles, and is confirmed by what we occasionally see in diseases. Thus in a case of a large cyst in the kidney, containing within an inner sac of false membrane a large black coagulmn of blood, we found concentric corpuscles in the false membrane, of exactly the same character as those observed in the brain. Here, too, it seemed reasonable to assume the primary deposition of fibrine, and the precipitation within its lamime of the phosphate of lime. It is not impossible that phlebolithes may in some instances be the residuary traces of former phlebitis. Dr. Lee observes,* that in the spermatic and hypogastric veins of females advanced in life, calcareous concretions and disorganizations of various kinds have frequently been observed, which must have been the consequence of attacks of acute inflammation at remote periods. ENTOZOA. Before quitting the pathology of the veins, we have to allude to the presence of entozoa, and of gaseous contents within them. Of the former, instances are recorded by various of the older authors, from l’liny the Elder downwards. This writer states, in his “ His- toria Naturalis,” that animals form in the blood of man, and destroy his body. An observation of parasitic animals in the blood is recorded by Dr. Bushman ; f but it is liable to objections which tend to invalidate the conclusions arrived at. The observation of the presence ot distoma hepaticum in the trunk of the vena portie in a man aged forty-nine, by Duval, \ is more valuable and trust- worthy. Andral § recounts an instance of hydatids found in the venous system. They occurred in the pulmonary veins of a man aged fifty-five, and twenty-three occupied the small ramifications shortly before their transition into the capillary network. They varied in size from a pea to a nut, and were symmetrically dis- tributed through both lungs. They had all the characters of acephalo-cysts. A similar observation was made by Wunderlich. Of late years the distoma hiematobium has been observed in the blood in cases of the endemic haematuria met with at the Cape and in other parts of Africa ; and a species of filaria has also been found in India, producing the disease called chyluria. AIR IN THE -VEINS. The entrance of air into tho veins is one of the most formid- able occuiTences complicating operations about the neck that the * Medioo-Chirurpeal Transactions,” vol. xvi. p. 418 Ve,na „f\HBo^ L„ndon.ei8"3Whi°h WHe “ in Blood ***** from the i “Gaz"tte Mddiculede Paris,” 1812, No. 49. I llageadie : “Journal de Physiologie,” vol. iii. p. 69.412 t “ Medical Reports,” yol. ii. p. 66S. AIR IN THE VEINS. surgeon lias to deal with. Death ensues rapidly, and atmospheric air is found in the right side of the heart. Air has been traced in some of these cases in the aorta, the crural arteries, the arteries of the brain, the inferior cava, the iliac veins, and the coronary veins of the heart. * It has been suggested that, in some cases of sudden death after delivery, the cause might be found in an introduction of air into the circulation by the open mouths of the veins, when the uterus contracted imperfectly. Simpson did in fact find air in such a case, in the uterine veins, the internal iliac, and the vena cava. Another question is the possibility of the spontaneous evolution of gas within the veins during life. Many of the cases on record are undoubtedly mere instances of rapid putrefaction; but we are justified, both by the constitution of healthy blood, and by post-mortem observation, in admitting the possibility of such a change before death. Numerous authors, among whom we would mention Dr. Baillie,f have met with air in the veins of the pia mater in cases of apoplexy, before any traces of decomposition were to be perceived. Dr. Bright % attributes the presence of air in these cases exclusively to accidental injury of the veins, or to incipient putrefaction. The evolution of gas during life, though difficult of absolute proof, is entirely within the range of pro- bability, when we consider that venous blood contains an excess of carbonic acid gas, which is discharged on reducing the atmospheric pressure, as demonstrated by Magnus. “Perhaps,” as Professor Puchelt remarks, “ it happens more frequently than we are aware, that a bubble of air forms in the venous blood, and again disap- pears. I am acquainted with at least one variety of palpitation, which produces the sensation, and, I am almost inclined to assert, the noise, as if a bubble passed through a fluid. It occurs gene- rally with but one beat of the heart, and I have met with it in venous subjects with an hsemorrhoidal tendency, and a liability to flatulency.” * See “ Puchelt, das Venensystem," vol. iii. p. 32S. Liefing, 1S43. + “ Morbid Anatomy,” p. 430.CHAPTER XXVII. MORBID ANATOMY OR THE CAPILLARIES. The extreme simplicity of the structure of capillary blood-vessels gives little opportunity for morphological changes. We have now to regard them as tubes formed by the union of epithelial plates each containing a nucleus; but it must also not bo forgotten that t ey are included in a sheath prolonged from the adventitia of the s mafcnf 1SfbvKmS m tbe brain> aud the existence of which wa^ronP/nnrfrnCl m "ther Parts‘ Tbe space between the 11 proper and the sheath corresponds to the perivascular or slme namo Pa Wer0b nd \TU f teries>. and maY be called by the same name V e have then to consider variations in the wall between!11 ^ °Uter Sheath’ and in tbe size or contents of the space saalleVXS?16 e?tirdy r° S6parate the morbid conditions of the 721 foUowiLan,C ?mS ^ -|b°Se ?f capillaries, so that some classes of vessels! Statements WlU aPl% to the two former in Jfhe6!? Chanfesinthe Capillary Wall.—There are doubtless changes ' recSizaEndeiTb qU tY °f the caPiUary wall which are not ThnfV, *he mlcrosc°pe, and known only by their effects ' ^the?JUfUra b®m0IThaSica> there is evidently some change is we^cln onlv1’JaU-faV°UTrlflg h®“orrhage> tut what that chanfe e can onlj suimise. Inflammation produces imnm+nnf s hlnr,RP t exudation of an increased quantity of serum and of ff 'b”»SU m the Dilatation in chronic inflammation becomes permanent, and is414 MORBID ANATOMY OF THE CAPILLARIES. often unequal, so that the capillaries become varicose or irregular in outline. These changes may be traced in the mucous membrane of the bronchi, or in the conjunctiva. Degeneration of the capillary wall occurs in several forms ; the fatty is the most common. Fatty degeneration may be traced in the brain, especially in cases of softening, but to some extent as a normal condition in old age. It is also very obvious in the kidney in some forms of Bright’s disease, and there affects both the reticulated intertubular capillaries, and those of the Malpighian glomeruli. The protoplasma of the epithelial plates becomes dotted with fatty granules, sometimes arranged around the nucleus. Lardaceous or amyloid degeneration is sometimes seen to affect the capillaries of an organ when the disease is in an early stage ; the wall becomes thicker, more refracting, and all distinction of structure is lost, so that the tube appears generally more glassy or hyaline. This also is best seen in the kidney. Pigmentary1 degeneration, if it occurs, results from htemorrhage. Changes in the Perivascular Space.—'The capacityof this space vanes inversely as the state of fulness of the vessels. Thus in the brain Golgi * found that the perivascular spaces were large in antemic conditions, small in hyperromia, especially when this condition came on suddenly. Normally this space contains nothing but lymph; it may, however, come to contain blood corpuscles from liseniorrhage, or yellow granules, the result of previous heemor- Tn il.pP. Morbid Changes in the Outer Sheath.—This sheath in capiUaries probably participates in the fibroid thickening, often seen in the corresponding parts of tlie smaller arteries : but tlie subject nas received little attention ; a peculiar hyaline thickening has been seen round capillaries of the brain in cases of insanity. Aneurismal Dilatation q/ Capillaries. -These vessels may, like arteries, be dilated into minute aneurisms. The vessel is some- times obliterated beyond the aneurism, which makes the aneurism appear like a terminal dilatation. _ Capillary Embolism and Thrombosis.—The obstruction of capil- laries, by finely divided matters which are too small to be arrested in the arteries, has been observed clinically, and produced experi- mentally. Some authors, as Feltz.t would even refer to tms cause the production of infarctions, which we have attributed to arterial obstruction. The obstruction of pulmonary capillaries by finely divided fatty matters was first observed by Wagner, who traced the fat to the marrow of bones. We have observed the obstruction of capillaries in the lung by masses looking agglomerations of leucocytes. Similar obstructions of systemic ^OO ca ro-iomeratiuLIS ui AC. — . - •• Hilaries have been observed in various parts of the body in ou>cs of pyaemia. Frerichs has supposed obstructions of the same kind * gee <■ Quarterly Journal of Microscopical Science,” vol. xi. new senes, lSTl, n 297 ; Virchow’s “ Archiv,” vol. li. p. 60S. P’+ “ Traite dea Embolies CapiRnires,” 2nd edition. Pans, 1870.41,5 MORBID AX ATOMY OF THE CAPILLARIES. to be caused by granules of pigment in cases of ague. Bastian has described a case of obstruction of cerebral capillaries by protoplasmic masses, believed by him to be spontaneously formed in the blood ; and attributes delirium to this cause. The results of capillary embolism will be trifling and temporary, if only a small area is affected; but if the part affected be con- I - siderable, necrosis will result. If the inaterial be of such a nature i a as to injure the vascular wall, haemorrhage may occur ; if it be of an irritating nature, inflammation and abscess. All these results have been produced experimentally. Teleangiectasis.—Among the chronic forms of disease which 1 are attributed more particularly to the capillaries, and to which we have not had occasion to allude elsewhere, is the affection which Mr. John Bell and English writers following him, have termed | : aneurism by anastomosis, or the Germans, more classically, - teleangiectasis.* It is also known by the simple term, erectile f tumour, which is probably the best, as it implies no theory. The affection is commonly congenital, and presents itself in the shape of a cutaneous swelling of a circumscribed form, and bluish-red colour, liable to considerable variations of distension, according to the state of the circulation. The tumour commonly, though °not ■ always, offers a pulsation to the touch isochronous with the arterial pulse. Bell described the tumour as consisting of a con- - geri(;s of vessels, between which were cavities and cells communi- cating with the latter ; others have attributed the affection solely ! to a distended condition of the vessels, among whom may be mentioned Syme and Pelletan. J Biudileisch points out that there is not only enlargement of : capillaries, but a very abundant new formation of these vessels. “ ,ls a vascular hyperplasia, the production of new vessels L taking place on Ins view, by the transformation of connective ! tissue corpuscles. There appear to be in fact two forms of these 1 tumours, one consisting of vessels only—the simple angiomata • another of vessels with cavities or blood spaces, the cavernous 1 angiomata. The common nsevus is the type of the first; the niore deeply seated vascular tumours formerly described (n 14 the type of the second.! U ' J , Jeleangiectusu, literally expansion of the remote vessels. rtiAe I $ vessel, Uren'oj, I distend. See also page 168. : ti ,ke: “ Geschwulnte ; ” Pitha und Billroth's “ Chirurgie || p. 252 ; \ irehow: “ Krank. GeschwUlste,” vol. iii. p. 307. distant, remote, vol. ii. div. i.CHAPTER XXYIII. the lymphatic system. We have here to consider the morbid conditions of the lymphatic • vessels and lymphatic glands. x,—the lymphatic vessels. Inflammation.—Acute inflammation of a lymphatic is manifested. by redness, painfulness, and swelling in its course; the coats be- come thickened and infiltrated, the cavity dilated, and exudation and suppuration may occur in their channels. A resolution is the most common termination of the process. The presence of actual pus in the lymphatics does not usually arise from inflammation of the vessels ; but this may be introduced into theni by abrasion or ulceration of lymphatics communicating with an abscess. .Tun- form matter is, however, frequently found which like the softened thrombi in veins, consists of fibrin which has undergone a peculiar molecular disintegration. Suppurative inflammation gives rise to small isolated abscesses along the course of the lymphatic vessek. forming, as it were, stations of the disease, each of which appears to serve as a fresh focus of morbid action. The inflammatory process affects, more or less, the surrounding cellular tissue from the commencement. As the inflammation advances the lymph- atics become blended with it, and suppuration and J “ of abscess involve the entire mass. Inflammation of lymphatic vessels is never primary, but always consequent on spm P • . inflammation of the surrounding connective fassue It, is see - inflammation oi mo buuuuuum0 fi fnrm_ be very intense accompanying metritis after child-birthterm ing one kind of puerperal fever; and also m the cutaneous lymphatics, in some cases of abscess, poisoned woun ^ •> 1U Chronic affections of lymphatic vessels are met with mscrofiflouA tubercular,' and cancerous disease. Their coats aie lomu , and thickened, and their channels are blocked up with the hete logous growth. The frequency with which this occurs appearsTHE LYMPHATIC VESSELS. 417 be in a ratio to the softened condition of the deposit in the organ from which the affected lymphatics take their origin. Thus, in a c case of encephaloid cancer of the stomach in an aged female, that i occurred under our own observation, the plexus of lymphatics | i occupying the lesser curvature of the organ was gorged to the a s size of crows’ quills with the cancerous matter.* In the majority of instances, we meet with no such filling up of those vessels, and I • the secondary affections which are set up in their glands appear to ■ be either the result of some material transmitted to them from the primary seat of the lesion, or of idiopathic disease set up in them by some general cause. Sir Astley Cooperf reports three cases of c obliteration of the thoracic duct, two of which were connected with ■ tubercular, the third with cancerous disease. In the first, the ■ob- - struction was produced by the thickened valves, in three’ distinct 1 parts, adhering to one another, the lowest still allowing of a partial t transmission of fluid, the upper arresting it entirely. Scrofulous matter was found deposited between the lamime of the valves. In the second there was considerable thickening and ulceration of the duct; two fungous growths occupied the channel; and in the third, v Inch occurred in a man who had died in consequence of malignant d disease of the testis and the lumbar glands, the thoracic duct was found much thickened, and filled with a pulpy mass, composed of broken, coagulable lymph. Opposite the curvature of the aorta ! the vessel was lost in a swelling as large as a moderate-sized walnut beyond which it was normal. The paper from which these cases - are derived, contain various experiments upon the thoracic duct in ^ annuals, of physiological interest. One of the main conclusions arrived at by the author in reference to this point is, that the cir- culation in the lymphatic system may be kept up by dilatation of collateral vessels subsequent to the occurrence of obstruction in a trimk, as in the vascular system at large. Dilatation.—A varicose condition of lymphatics is occasionallymet 1 atonic habits, causing them to resemble hvdatid tumours It affects various parts of the system, and especially the thoracic duct is liable to dilatation; occasionally the entire system is found in this condition, and an extreme instance of this, occurring in a young man, aged nineteen, which happened in the practice of M Amussat, is given in the works of Breschet and Carswell. Cruik- enankj alludes to and delineates a similar case. Here the lymphatics r; of the groins had reached a size sufficient to permit of the intro- duction of a straw by which air was blown into them; the iliac ganglia had entirely disappeared, and were replaced by the . lymphatic vessels. A corresponding enlargement of these vessels was traced through the abdomen into the thorax; none of the 1 other viscera presented any marked pathological changes. * Pathological Society,” 1847-48, p. 195. f a Records and Researches,” 1798, p. 87. v Bee (,arswell, “ Patholog. Anat. Pasc.” ix. pi. iv. fie- 4 and ■Rt-phoW « t cj ^ Lymphatique,” 1836, p. 260. b' ’ meschet, L0 SystOmc E E. THE LYMPHATIC GLANDS. 418 Tissue formed of dilated lymphatics and lymphatic spaces is also seen in the peculiar form of enlargement of the tongue, called macroglossia. Tumours composed of lymphatic vessels corresponding to the teleangiectasis of blood capillaries have received the name ‘ ‘ lymph- angiectasis” or “ erectile lymphatic tumour” of Anger ; while a true cavernous tumour, produced by an actual new growth oi lymphatic vessels and spaces, has been described by Billroth and : Yirchow as lymphangioma cavernosum.* II.—THE LYMPHATIC GLANDS. Affections of the lymphatic glands are in most cases secondary, being produced by primary disease in the part with which the glands are connected. The irritation to which their affections are traceable, may proceed from some local lesions, from which it is earned to the neighbouring glands by the connecting lymphatic, as in the case of a sore on the prepuce, inducing bubo, or ofporrigo of the head, causing tumefaction of the cervical glands; or it may be excited directly by the morbid condition of the blood circulating in the capillaries of the glands. Simple acute inflammation is manifested by tumefaction, soften- ing and a highly vascularized state of the organ, causing it, on ° division with the knife, Pig. 95 m to distil blood, while its colour is changed from a reddish grey to a dark red or crimson tint. If suppu- ration has ensued, yellow spots first appear in diffe- rent parts, and eventually the entire gland mav be destroyed by the process, and be converted into an abscess, in which the sur- rounding cellular tissue is Cytogenous tissue, with thickened stroma. (Dickinson, “Trans. Path. Soc.,” yoL xxi. 1S70.) more or less implicated. The chronic form is, how- ever, the more common; a species of interstitial growth takes place, and induces gradual enlarge- ment and induration of the gland. On the other hand, a reabsorption of the interstitial deposit may occur, as we have frequent opporta nities of observing, as the effect of a suitable dietetic and medicinal * Virchow: ‘Kranli. Geschwfflste,” vol. hi. p. 490; LU'ke: “ Gesehwiilstc.” p. 2S7.CASEOUS, TUBERCULAR, ANI) SCROFULOUS GLANDS. 419 r regimen, in consequence of which the parts regain their normal - size and appearance. The histological changes in the chronic form appear to consist chiefly in the increase of the intercellular fibrous - structure or matrix of the gland which may come to predominate oyer the cellular elements, though normally the converse is the e case (Fig. 95). Hypertrophy of the glands is met with chiefly in childhood, and ■ is often the sign of some constitutional weakness or diathesis, though sometimes no such predisposition can he traced. Enlarged e glands may he perfectly normal in structure, and thus be truly l hypertrophied, but, perhaps, in most cases the enlargement is com- plicated either with chronic inflammation or with some of the changes now to be enumerated. CASEOUS, TUBERCULAR, AND SCROFULOUS GLANDS. It sometimes happens, especially in the young, that glands which :are chronically enlarged, with or without previous inflammation of the parts with which they are connected, undergo a peculiar form of degeneration or metamorphosis, which results in the pro- duction of the yellow caseous matter called “yellow tubercle,” or “scrofulous matter,” which we have already described in the first part. This change occurs especially in persons having what is called a scrofulous constitution, a term which we have before i: discussed.* Changes very similar are seen in the glands connected with organs in which there is a production of tubercle, using this word in the strict sense formerly explained. When this change is far advanced, no difference can be seen between the cases affected with tubercle and those in which there is no disease or simple inflammation of the adjacent organs. Hence all these changes were at one time confounded together under the same name. Subse- quently, by examining early stages of the metamorphosis, patho- logists (especially Virchow) have shown that the strictly tubercular disease differs anatomically as well as clinically from that in. which no tubercles are present. We have .accordingly to consider separately the scrofulous and the tubercular affections of the glands. Scrofulous Glands.—The changes in lymphatic glands, called scrofulous, appear to be always dependent'on some morbid changes m the organs whence the glands derive their lymph, and especially on inflammatory changes. There is, however, "this peculiarity, that the primary or exciting cause maybe acute and transitory, and the resulting secondary affection of the glands chronic or permanent. pie morbid process in the glands consists essentially in multipli- cation of the cellular parts or lymph corpuscles, and hence is at hrst a simple cellular hyperplasia. The newly-formed lymph cells have, however, certain peculiarities; they are imperfectly organ-420 CASEOUS, TUBERCULAR, ANT) SCROFULOUS GLANDS. ized, and have little permanence; they soon undergo an imperfect fatty metamorphosis, which either leads to complete absorption and resolution, or else to a merely necrobiotic change, the perished . j cells remaining mingled in one mass with the new ones which are continually formed. The gland in its early or hyperplastic stage has a uniform pale grey, translucent appearance, though sometimes more opaque, and I either white or pinkish. Sometimes it is more succulent than a; i healthy gland, hut in general drier and denser, though the vessels • are prominent and full. This condition does not iast long; the gland becomes denser andi tougher, and the necrobiotic decay of the newly formed elements- begins; yellow patches begin to appear in the grey mass, and: finally the whole gland may be converted into a firm, tough J yellowish opaque mass, the appearance of which has been compared j to that of a raw potato, only that there is less moisture. This is- called the caseous metamorphosis, but in fact the dry crumbling :i consistency which suggested this name is only gradually developed i out of the condition just described. The caseous mass is still susceptible of further transformations.. Sometimes softening takes place, by a kind of imperfect solution, so that a turbid puriform fluid results, containing only debris of: tissue, fatty molecules, and the like, which has however been, called scrofulous pus. This may open externally, forming a scro--: fulous ulcer, and the morbid material he completely eliminated, so: that only the well-known scrofulous scar remains. Again, another change is possible, consisting in more complete drying up anda deposition of lime salts, so that either an atheromatous paste con- taining cholesterine and other fatty products, or else an actualJ calcareous mass, results. Complete resolution and absorption are also even at this stage pos- sible. Actual suppuration is not common at any stage of the process above described, but may under some circumstances take place. Children are peculiarly prone to scrofulous and tubercular disease* of the glandular system; but there is a considerable difference in the proclivity of different sets of glands to be affected. All authors* are agreed that the bronchial are pre-eminently endowed with this* tendency. The analysis of one hundred post-mortem examinations: a of children affected with scrofulous and tuberculous disease, bj | Dr. Lombard,* showed that The bronchial glands were affected in ST The mesenteric do. do. 31 The cervical do. do. t The inguinal do. do. 3 In the case of the bronchial glands a communication is occasion- H ally established between their contents after they have softenec* * Andral: “ Pr&is d’Anatomie Patliologique,” vol. 1. p. 425.CASEOUS, TUBERCULAR, AND SCROFULOUS GLANDS. 421 and the channel of the bronchi, and may be thus evacuated by expectoration. The chalky concretions find their way out occasion- ally in the same manner. A remarkable instance of death being caused by the impaction of the cretaceous contents of a bronchial . gland in the bronchi, is detailed by Dr. Tice in the twenty-sixth volume of the “ Medico-Chirurgieal Transactions.” Caseous glands are very frequently found in the bodies of persons dying of phthisis, and hence it has been thought that tuberculosis is a secondary disease resulting from the absorption of this caseous • substance, which is more often seen in glands than elsewhere. The editor of this work observed a case where, by subsequent softening of a scrofulous gland, some of this material was introduced into the superior vena cava; producing, first, local coagulation and softening of the thrombus; secondly, general pyaemia and suppuration in the joints. Tubercular Olancls.—Changes due to the production of tubercle in the glands are seen both in the acute and chronic condition. The : former occur in cases of acute tuberculosis. The glands are then found, highly vascular, succulent, and more or less enlarged, while . greyish miliary tubercles may sometimes be seen in them. Adore often we find a marbled or mottled appearance, parts of the gland being opaque and white, while the remainder is vascular. The - same whiteness and opacity may extend over the whole gland, and be succeeded by dry necrosis or caseation ; but another change is also possible, and according to Virchow, frequent; which consists in induration and production of fibroid tissue, accompanied by thickening of the capsule, and adhesive inflammation of the sur- rounding^ tissue; the caseous change being then limited to isolated > spots. Ulceration, like that of scrofulous glands, is, however, possible, and so is calcification ; a formation of peculiar concentric calcareous corpuscles has also been observed by Virchow and ' Sehiippel. The histology of tubercular glands is a subject on which some I difference of opinion exists. It is described by Virchow * some- what as follows. The production of tubercles takes place in the . fibrous septa of the gland, not in the follicles, the latter parts being unaffected, or simply hyperplastic, and it thus contrasts with the changes in scrofulous glands which are chiefly in the follicles. The tubercles are of what Virchow has distinguished as the fibrous variety; they contain few round lymphoid cells, but are on the contrary made up of cells resembling epithelium and large many- nucleated or myeloid cells, so as even to recall a myeloid tumour. : beside this there is much general proliferation of the connective tissue, which does not necesarily follow, but may even precede the development of the tubercle. More recently Sehiippel f has given a very different account of * ^Krankh. GeschwUlste,” vol. ii. p. 672. “t ynter8uchungen iiber Lymphdrllsen-tuberculose.” ■urnden Medical Record,” vol. i., Nos. 3 and 4, 1873. Tubingen, 1871, etc.; see422 CASEOUS, TUBERCULAR, AND SCROFULOUS GLANDS. the same matter. According to him the tubercles are always formed in the follicles of the gland, and have nothing to do with the septa, or the lymph paths. The commencement of each tubercle is in a many-nucleated, myeloid, or “ giant '’ cell, which may he complex in form, with many branches, and containing even as many as fifty or sixty nuclei. This original myeloid cell takes its rise in a vein or some small blood vessel, and is evolved from structureless protoplasm. This last explanation he would extend to all tubercles. Retrogressive changes soon set in, the life of the tubercle being very short; and it either becomes simply necrotic or else undergoes a fibrous transformation. With respect to the character of the cells he agrees with Yirchow. Tubercle of the lymph glands is generally secondary to tuber- cular disease of the organs connected with the gland ; bnt this is not always the case, for those organs may have some disease unac- companied by the production of tubercle, viz., either degenerative and destructive (“ scrofulous ”), or simple inflammation. These must be called cases of primary tuberculosis of the gland, and may be compared to those cases of tubercle of the pleura following, non - tuhercular disease of the lung. . . Scliiippel contends that all caseous or scrofulous gland? are origi- nally tubercular, and that the caseous process is nothing but necrosis of tubercle. He thinks that in a large number of cases the tubercle in the glands is the primary tubercle, and that its formation is the result of local irritation combined with constitu- tional predisposition. Syphilitic Affections of Lymphatic Glands.—In syphilis the lym- phatic glands undergo a sort of chronic inflammation which has some resemblance to that called scrofulous. The glands enlarge, but not usually to any great extent; they become hard and more fibroid change than is seqn in the scrofulous process, while only partial caseation or yellow necrosis takes place. These changes begin in the glands which receive their lymph from parts affected with the primary syphilitic lesion; but secondary affec- tions may also excite similar changes in the glands, and when once commenced, the process may extend to distant glands. Acme inflammation and suppuration often occur in glands dependent on parts where there exists a suppurative or soft chancre, and are not in themselves syphilitic; hut the occurrence of suppurauve glands or buboes does not exclude syphilis. , Lardaceous Degeneration of Lymphatic Glands. This change occurs in the glands when other organs are similarly affected, but probably never alone, and not at all commonly. The appearances are similar to those seen in other parts affected with the same degeneration. Changes in the Glands from Enteric Fever.— In this disease the morbid changes in the intestines are accompanied by similar changes in the mesenteric glands. When we find in the )hu swelling and ulceration of the Peyer’s patches, the mesenteric glandsNEW GROWTHS OF LYMPHATIC GLANDS. 423 immediately dependent upon that portion of the bowel are found : enlarged, hypersemic, and infiltrated with a creamy juice contain- ing' abundant lymph corpuscles. The change, like that in the intestinal glandular structures, is a lymphatic hyperplasia charac- terized by a profuse production of cells, as was long ago pointed out by John Goodsir. The newly-formed cells show, however, a marked tendency to degeneration and necrosis, which assimilates the process in some degree to scrofulous changes ; actual softening . and suppuration do not occur, hut yellow necrotic masses may be produced. Leuchcemic Enlargement of the Glands.—In the disease called leu- c chsemia, enlargement of some of the lymphatic glands is common if not constant. (See p. 74.) The enlargement presents generally the character of a pure hypertrophy, but in some oases, according • to Yirchow, the development may become heteroplastic, and the . growth spread beyond the glands into the neighbouring tissues. Another way of stating this is to say that leuchoemia sometimes ; accompanies the growth of infiltrating or infective lymphoma, and - sometimes not. The extension is probably to be attributed to the i migratory properties of leucocytes. These hypertrophies thus approximate to new growths proper, which we have now to consider. NEW GROWTHS OF LYMPHATIC GLANDS. Primary new growths of the lymphatic glands are far less com- mon than secondary, the latter being dependent upon similar disease either in the part from which the gland derives its lymph • supply, or in some distant organ. _ Primary new growths are chiefly lymphoma and sarcoma. Car- cinoma in the form of encephaloid has also been often described, and in some two or three cases epithelioma is said to have occurred as a primary growth. Lymphoma or Lymphadenoma.—This growth begins with simple f enlargement or hyperplasia of the gland, and we cannot give any . precise definition to separate the tumours from simple enlarge- ments. The latter term becomes, however, inappropriate when the structure becomes different from that of a normal gland. The difference may consist in a greater development of the intercellular stroma leading to induration, and a more homogeneous, elastic, translucent consistency in the glf.nd, or in a preponderating development of cells, so that the tumour appears to be entirely cellular. The specially cellular forms are called by Yirchow, in accordance with his system, lymphosarcomata. They are often infective and infiltrate neighbouring parts, or are, in other words, malignant. He distinguishes a soft and a hard form, but we find it impossible to ■ separate the latter from other forms of enlargement. The former are a more distinct class.NEW Gltownis OF LYMPHATIC GLANDS. 424 Suft, or Medullary Lymphoma—Lymphosarcoma.—A good type of this form of tumour is seen in the soft rapidly-growing tumours of the mediastinum. These originate usually in the bronchial glands, though in some cases the starting point has been thought to be the thymus. In an early stage they appear like simple enlargements of the glands, but as they increase, the growth extends to the sur- ; rounding tissue by a species of infiltration. In this way not only the whole of the mediastinal connective tissue, but adjacent por- tions of the pleurae, pericardium, and the thoracic walls will be involved in a lymphatic new growth, and very large masses are thus produced. In other cases the lung tissue is invaded, or even the heart, and the large veins, are penetrated by the new growth. These tumours possess a structure closely resembling that of a lym- i phatic gland, namely, a great abundance of lymphoid cells enclosed in a finely-reticulated stroma. The latter sometimes assumes an alveolar structure like that of carcinoma, and, in fact, such tumours : resemble cancer in everything but the “ epithelial’’character of the cells. They make up the greater part of what has been described as intra-thoracic cancer, corresponding precisely in their naked eye characters to what was formerly taken as typical medul- lary cancer, or encephaloid. These tumours have accordingly most of what are called malig- nant properties ; but they rarely give rise to secondary growths in distant parts, and when such growths occur simultaneously in other organs, such as the spleen, this must, in some cases, be regarded as the hyperplasia of similar tissue rather than as a secondary production. Soft lymphomata of the same kind and magnitude as those occurring in the mediastinum are less frequently developed in other glands, except in the cervical glands ; these sometimes give origin to large tumours, which may infiltrate the neighbouring.' parts, and enter the thorax. The retroperitoneal glands of the: abdomen are also sometimes the starting-point of large lympho- -: sarcomata. In most of the other glands, tumours if formed are of the hard kind. Hard Lymphoma.—Although such a character as hardness cannot' of course be generally regarded as of much importance, it serves in the present instance to distinguish from the medullary, highly in- fective, and malignant forms just described, others in some respects ■ similar, which do not infiltrate the neighbouring parts, or possess a in general such malignant properties. They are described bv Yirchow as showing proliferation of the septa, and production of cells from all parts of the gland, with much increase of connective tissue ; but it is doubtful whether they can really be distinguished from hypertrophy, at least in the early stages. Later on the con- nective-tissue increase causes the cells to become fewer, and there is usually thickening of the capsule. These tumours occur especi- ally in the neck and axilla; they never attain any great size, . being seldom larger than a plum or an egg.425 NEW GROWTHS OF LYMPHATIC GLANDS. Anceima Lymphatica ; Hodgkin's Disease.— Cases are sometimes met with in which there is an enlargement of many lymphatic - glands throughout the body, and at the same time masses of new - growth resembling lymphatic tissue are formed in internal organs, especially the spleen. These changes have been supposed to indi- cate a special disease analogous to, but not identical with leuchtemia, (since there is no increase in the white corpuscles of the blood); but we are here only concerned with the changes in the lymphatic glands. These have been described in very different terms by different observers, the variations depending apparently upon the stage of development at which they happened to be examined, as w7ell as upon the preponderance or subordination of cell-growth. More- ovei, it is not certain that really different processes may not, as producing similar symptoms, be included under the same name. When different stages of development are met with in the same body find the earlier forms (in the smaller glands) much, more .. vasculai and softer than the more advanced, which are pale, tough, and elastic, and often almost homogeneous and translucent, or even waxy m appearance. The minute characters correspond to these external differences. We find in the smaller forms a great ' n ,anCe °f cells’ and these not always like ordinary lymphoid cells, but often larger and irregular in shape; while myeloid or - giant cells are not unfrequently seen, as in other hyperplastic con- ditions of the lymph glands. When the gland increases in size the cehs multiply, but are individually smaller, and abundant nuclei aie produced. In this stage the structure has been described as hT°—nucleated In more advanced stages the stroma increases, while the cells dimmish relatively, and probably actually waste, ine Danas of the stroma at the same time increase greatly in width , the appearance characteristic of chronic inflammation of the glands or adenoid tissue with preponderance of intercellular sub- ™e is produced (see Fig. 95.) The latter change may ulti- mately reach so extreme a degree that the whole substance appears !ZnkiUnder t lG lni£roscoPe ,almost homogeneous, and much re- y es a. I)art affected with lardaceous degeneration, though 2r,Pr0duCeS 110 VhanSe- This condition has hence been de- [ un„ e< as °ne Produced by albuminous exudation. It is not known that any further transformation takes place, since the [ fands do not become affected with caseous degeneration, soften- apDroachCaiC1^VFtl0n’ scr°fulous glands; only some slight UeenP 'f * rthnS con(,lltlon belng occasionally observed. No f peculiarity of chemical constitution is known to exist describeda;TBCSid,*mh° tumoui's calied lymphosarcoma, already chSctei o7tf!'OV may ^uSe 111 thf ^ilnds wldcb have the Thr r i °f true sarcoma, either round-celled, or spindle-celled unf,ftr°^ritO,,10al glands’ uear the bead of the pancreas are not infrequently the seat of a growth of this kind which oftm! rifcct. the liver. Other ,imilar grewlhe oceur ia £•126 ENTOZOA. cervical and axillary glands, which may equally give rise te infil- tration of the surrounding parts, and then be reproduced m distant organs; sometimes by embolism, as the growths often peitoiate the walls of veins. . , . . , Secondary growths of sarcoma also often occur, as in the inguinal or femoral glands, subsequently to the occurrence of a similar tumour in the limb. This secondary infection is not quite so common as in carcinoma. . . , - , .. Carcinoma.—Taking this designation m the strict sense in wnich it is now understood it appears doubtful whether it ever occurs prima- rily in lymphatic glands. As a secondary growth it is, however, extremely common ; and the usual path by which a primary carci noma infects the whole body is by infecting first the lymphatic Epithelioma.—A very few cases have been descnbed^ ot this growth occurring primarily in lymphatic glands. _ 11 . * . . ® described some years ago such an affection of the inguinal lym- phatic glands oil both sides in a chimney sweep. Forster speaks of a similar case; and a few more are recorded by Lan^nheckas occurring in the neck; the latter are supposed by Luche» to. have grown from subcutaneous dermoid cysts. Secondary affections are extremely common. MELANOSIS. An affection to which the glandular system, and especially those Darts in relation to the respiratory organs, is very Prone> ?? melanosis • it is not, however, to be looked upon as a morbid process in itself, but rather as an evidence of the depurating func- tions by which they assist in eliminating the superfluous carbon from the body. We have shown elsewhere that melanosis does not. in itself constitute a malignant disease, and that it does not con- sist of a new formation, though frequently complicated, with som new growth. While it is unusual to find black matter m the'lym- phatic ganglia of the abdominal or inguinal regions, we consta i meet with it in the glands surrounding the bronchi. much . , pigment here seen is undoubtedly carbonaceous m^terlI^S “ g the breath and conveyed from the lung by Te=selS* Another part, again, is due to haemorrhage m the lun0. ENTOZOA. Almost the only known instance of entozoa bei nT^qveutler^r elands, is recorded by Rudolphi.t It was discovered by Treut e , '«! !’°Sren,cdiliS worms in the bronchial glands. . Pitlm und Billroth : « Oiinnyic.” ii. 1. P- »*T. + “ Ento?oorum Histona Naturahs, lol.u. p.THE PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY OF THE ORGANS OF RESPIRATION. CHAPTER NXIN. GENERAL OBSERVATIONS. Me shall examine the pathological conditions of the different parts of the respiratory system in the order in which they naturally present themselves, as we proceed from the orifice downwards: commencing whh the larynx and its appendix the epiglottis, we shall descend to the trachea, the bronchi and their ramifications, the pulmonary parenchyma and the pleura. Though a definite relation exists between these different parts, which is more intimate in some than m others, they are each susceptible of isolated morbid 3tates; and though the continuity of the mucous membrane lining Oie entire passages frequently induces a propagation of disease trom one part to the other, this is by no means universally the case, i and the catarrh or croup affecting the larynx or trachea need not -'ause any pathological changes in the adjacent mucous membrane, ar the other tissues of the affected part itself. The absolute imnort- mce of the morbid condition to the individual does not necessarily oear a direct relation to its intensity, but depends a great deal P?n affected; a point which the physiological iaws regu- ;• the different sections of the respiratory organs render sifffi- -lenuy palpable ; thus a trifling amount of inflammatory swelling “ tb0 §lottls or epiglottis threatens danger, while much nwe in- ense inflammation of the pulmonary parenchyma, or of the bronchi nay run its course without causing more than a temporary incon- ST- P* feature» 0,‘h« V** condition ma/be lnS •Shmilarlr bearmgS Up0n th° exlstence of the individual are widely inflammation of mucous surfaces in general. Before entering on the diseases of the respiratory Jrane, we shall endeavour to classify the forms of mucous mem- inflammation428 CATARRHAL INFLAMMATION. which can affect such surfaces, since they present so close a general agreement tha t much special description will thus be saved. I he following account applies not only to the respiratory mucous tract, but with some modifications, to the intestinal, and in a more restricted sense, to the genito-urinary tract, and to the eye and ear Three forms of inflammation are distinguished which may affect 1. Catarrhal inflammation, the form peculiar to such surfaces, in which no solid adventitious products are formed. 2. Croupous inflammation, in which solid sheets called false mem- branes, are formed upon the diseased surface. This has more re- semblance to the inflammations of serous membranes. _ 3 Diphtheritic inflammation, in which there is necrosis or slough- ing of the tissues, with the formation of false membranes much resembling those of croupous inflammation. The two latter forms are comparatively rare; the former ery common, being the almost invariable result of any injury or irrita- tion of the mucous tissue. I.—CATARRHAL INFLAMMATION. In catarrhal, as in other inflammations, we have hyperwmta, ■ shown by the more or less pronounced red colour; hypercesthesia,, shown by the extreme sensibility of the mucous surface; iiuxeatu productiveness, shown in the swelling from mterstitial effuaon,, in the abundant liquid secretion (flux or catarrh proper), and m numerous leucocytes or young cells which the secretion contains. There is also increased waste or destruction, shown by the delach- ment of very many epithelial cells, by the fatty degeneration of many of these, and by the molecules of fat present in th° seeretio • It thus presents all the essential characters of inflammation a, for- merly defined. The factors of the process must now be separately. C°nypeiaemia is doubtless the most important condition of cat.irrh. and often must be regarded as the cause of all the other derange ments Venous hypersemia very commonly produces or predispose* to catarrh, as is seen in the occurrence of broncmtis inconsequence of cardiac obstruction ; of gastric and intestinal catarr s, i on straction of the portal systeui, &c. Whether simple, acti , arterial hypersemia, such as that resulting from section o * pathetic can of itself be said to produce catarrh is doubtful, ^t, at all events, it brings the mucous surface into such ^ that very slight causes will set up inflammation. P morbid hand, active hypersemia is an immediate consequence o stimulus (whatever it may be) which produces catan ’ ' foie one of its earliest symptoms. Hyperamna has for its nmc diate consequences redness, hypersecretion, and swelling,CATARRHAL INFLAMMATION. 429 lead to increased temperature; and doubtless has a share in the production of the hypersesthesia of inflamed mucous surfaces. The redness of a catarrhal mucous membrane varies much in tint and intensity. _ In early stages it is a bright red arterial colour but when catarrh is connected, as it often is, with venous conges- ■ tion, the tint is more nearly purple; and the latter is also more I chaiactenstic of chronic catarrh. In the acute stage, numerous small Ihhemorrhages heighten the red colour; and through the °radual \ changes, undergone by this blood pigment, we get the slaty colour or pigmentation which long-continued catarrh always produces It -is most important to remember that the redness due to mere turges- ■.cence of the vessels in the acute stage maybe quite unrecogniz- .aWe a™r heath, the vessels having emptied themselves by their Textural Changes. Swelling of the mucous membrane is a verv constant phenomenon ; it appears to depend on several causes = beside the turgeseence of the vessels. These are as follows I thmiargement ot the individual elements in consequence of more active nutrition; interstitial effusion of serum which infiltrates the i parts ; and the production of new elements. These new elements ;or young cells, are of the kind usually met with as inflam- ' :rtntrnfr^0ClLiCtS’1bemiS Ln ±act leucocTtes> ^distinguishable from . those of the blood, and showing amoeboid movements. As in other | inflammations, some doubt still hangs over the origin of these eements, and it is uncertain whether they are migratory cells hfe-alf frTihhef-blood’ °r whet}ier they are produced by pro- “"S ot the elements, viz., of the sub-mucous con- |-nechve tissue, or of the epithehal cells themselves. With respect ™tCVPif eS/ the sub-mucous connective tissue they show flb yi.tha- ?PPeara"ees regarded as indicating cell- “eZrZhn hy CbrV1S10n• The relations of the epithelial cells are more obscure. Large compound cells, inclosing in their sub- fcltSRai,1ry°iUni CeUs’ baVe rcPeatedly been observed, which Remah, Buhl, and others interpreted as mother-cells, propagating as “ the embryo, by ‘endogenous multiplication.” More lately it | was shown that large swollen epithelial cells were capable of recmy- ■ 3eftin!tht017 C<31 8 mt0 ^helli subst£mce> and that structures pre- 3entii g the appearance of endogenous proliferation might thus be , and tbe researches of Bizzozero* seem to have shown ' MV6,y |bat m certain inflammations, viz., hypopyon or sun duration m the anterior chamber of the eye, this is actimll-o-+£" ' Chf? °).what.have be,f‘n regarded as compound or “ mother-cells ” . SkPh^CtPafa^ ole™nts the production of youno- Mgi^JSSSSS” mu,t S2S not only enormously increased in quantity (for the ormal secretion of a mucous surface is extremely small in amount) Strieker’s “ Mcdizinische Jalirbuclier,” 1872, p 160.430 CROUPOUS INFLAMMATION OF MUCOUS SURFACES. but also much altered in quality. The mucine is greatly increased, and the water relatively diminished; hut the special constituents of the secretion, if any (such as those of the gastric surface), are not increased. The numerous cells floating m the secreted liquid greatly modify its appearance and properties, they are in general more abundant as the mucus is deficient, and thus two chief types of catarrhal inflammation are marked out, the mucous and the purulent. These types may succeed one another in the course of the same disease, or else exhibit their distinctive character from the beginning. „ , . , Ulceration is not a common consequence of catarrh, and occurs, if at all, usually in chronic cases ; but it is not necessary to attri- bute it to any other special cause beside the catanh itself, ihe so-called catarrhal ulcers are generally shallow, only superficially' eroding the mucous membrane proper. _ Changes in the sub- mucous tissue (such as induration) sometimes accompany cluonic catarrh. The fever accompanying this form of inflammation has some more or less clearly defined characters. Its onset is i^dual rather than sudden, often marked by repeated rigors, and the temperature does not reach tho same height as in some inflam- mations. There is. however, a marked tendency to become chro c even in cases which may have had an abrupt beginning; e.g., bronchial catarrh, gonorrhoea, conjunctivitis, aural catarrh, and others. CROUPOUS INFLAMMATION OF MUCOUS SURFACES. Although, as we have said, the ordinary fiuansofinflammation on mucous surfaces do not give rise to any solidifying erodabon like the “ inflammatory lymph of some othei parts , there disease generally very distinct from ordinary catarrhal inflamma- tion in which are produced considerable sheets of adventibotu matter usually called false membranes. These have been thou lu to he composed of fibrin, produced out of maten^ exuded from^ blood-vessels, hut there are several d^c^s m the wayXWs view, and of late years it has been contended that the iappar*3 exudation is nothing but the greatly altered tissue 1 sl , fl0OpSions1 stm vary about the time nature of the J membrane, and we can only give the description of it which^ believe to he the most accurate, that ot M a?U01- ( essentially confirmed by Buhl, Bindfleisch, and ot ieis. mX/nrit/ of Crow —The microscopical investigation of tne croupous membrane (according to Wagner) shows a clear homo- * Warner: “Archiv (lei- Heilkunde,” vol vii. n^Sl, vol- bi'.Verlixndl. wjnor: “ Allgpmeine rafhologiej’ ^ YiEMefsci?: “Athol. Hist*” »’KUW vol. xxii. p. 35,Ifll.431 DIPHTHERITIC INFLAMMATION. - geneous network, of highly refracting substance; the roundish meshes of which contain serum and pus corpuscles (leucocytes) • sometimes epithelial cells, free nuclei or red corpuscles. The network itself has a great power of resistance to heat and chemical r.reagents. It is at first covered by the topmost layer of epithelium (here ciliated), but later on this disappears. The membrane accord- ing1! replaces the epithelium, and is formed by a peculiar meta- morphosis of its cells, which become partly absorbed, partly converted into pseudo-fibrinous substance. The change has beeu called by Wagner croupous metamorphosis, and is thus described by him. In the first place, a general enlargement of the cell -especially of its protojilasma, takes place. Next appear several round or oval spaces, which ultimately become vacuoles, the cell- substance completely disappearing, while the remaining sub- stance becomes darker, more refracting, and looks lagged in mitlino W.VinlKr _ -a. <■ , , ‘ Jae»uu AU outline. Finally the cell is quite perforated by these ‘ spaces, which may also destroy part of its outline, and the nucleus dis- appears; but its residue is composed of substance extremely re- isistent to reagents, and becomes firmly united to the neighbouring •oelis, so that an open but very firm network is produced. The leucocytes found m the meshes of this structure are probably like dhe occasional red corpuscles, derived from the vessels J ’ The above description gives us the anatomical definition of croup but includes some forms of disease usually called diphtheria such -is ordinary epidemic “ diphtheria ” of the pharynx. Clinically dis- .met as these forms are, an anatomical distinction corresponding n the two types of disease has not yet been found ; that is to say loth croup and diphtheria may affect the pharynx as well as the ur passages. ° HI.—DIPHTHERITIC INFLAMMATION. This kind of inflammation is, like the last, accompanied by the ■•reduction, on the surface, of apparently adventitious material in h. form of layers or false membranes. They greatly resemble -ipous lake mernbmnes, and though several criteria have been •uggested for distinguishing one from the other, it cannot be said aat anj of these are perfectly satisfactory. The type of dinhthe it.c mflammatmn or diphtheria is commonly taken from a disease t the pharynx and tonsils, which occasionally extends to or affects he aar passages, whiie croup (as generally understood) is a disease f„“e lai7nx an(1 traciea- But, on the other hand, there are affec ^transferred accidentally to other parts of the body or to open “Ms ib onmj] locality is therefore not all-important ff! 4 state that the term diphtheria is used on the Continent m ,432 TIIE EPIGLOTTIS. much wider and indeed quite different sense from that which has been usual among ourselves ; and that an almost inextncu he con- fusion has resulted from the application ot the same name to de- ferent objects. It is difficult to separate wholly the morbid anatomy from the clinical symptoms which we cannot discuss here ; and our exposition must therefore he very imperfect. * Anatomical Characters.-In well-marked cases of diphthena, a erev or ash-coloured false membrane is formed on the disused surface and can only he detached with difficulty, and not without some iniury to the subjacent surface, shown either by bleeding or byTaSed ulceration. It is in fact a part of the mucous membrane} beinpartially, at all events, made up of necrotic sloughin tissue P This character of necrosis is the only distinguishing one oi diphtheria- hut it may have, in addition, the characters ot croup. Microscopic examination of the false membrane shows chieflv ne- crotic tissue; at the same time, minute organisms, resembhn Wteria are seen in it, and sometimes a kind of fungoid growth b lav n^ the surface. One or the other of these organisms has appeals disease; hut since they are animal tissue, it is possible that they may be rather the result than the occasion ot the morbid processes. TIIE EPIGLOTTIS. The epiglottis is, notwithstanding its exposure, not very hable to disease^^Pa “urnstance due in part to the dense fibro-cartilagnum tissue which forms its substratum. The mucous membrane winch Wsts it may be affected with acute or chronic inflammation m Sh cb, the vessels eptoge andto- tortuous •*£•£** the li°-ht pink hue is converted into a stieak> , or moie The acute, form is nLcmiml iniury or chemical irritation, wane tne cnio ,- companies old standing catarrhs of advanced ag^a^facor ^ypffi- litic cachexia, and other conditions result b-ntant poisons. The former is met with as a result ot the action .* j « which may thus cause death without passing the.fauces, and ju Dr. Marshall Hall* has pointed out, in_c0^e^ie dr;ny;ng boiling frequently happens among the poorei ord > , cases there water from the spout of the kettle or ^I^^T^nown ass producing immense swelling, but not go 9 suffocative dyspnea one of the instances detailed by Dr. Davis, T sunocauv . • “ Medico-Chinirgical Translations,” vol. xii- P-1 ■ + Ibid.433 THE EPIGLOTTIS. supervened within three or four hours, and when at this period the attempt was made to apply leeches, the child, a little girl of three • years of age, was much terrified, and screamed so violently, that t they could not be used. Prom this moment, however, respira- : tion became easy, and a speedy re- pI([ gg covery took place. The remedy which in such a case relieves the immediate symptoms, and may thus •be the means of saving life, is the operation of tracheotomy, though, . as in the instance from which the ; delineation was taken, not always - successful. (Edema of the epiglottis alone, ^without participation of the neigh- bouring parts, occurs rarely; and, when it does, is confined to the upper half. (Edema of the lower half is .accompanied by the same affection :of the upper part of the larynx.* Vicerations.—Ulcers of the epi- glottis are not unfrequent, more especially as complications of phthisis ; they are generally limited :o the inferior surface of the valve and to its mucous covering; though hey occasionally penetrate to the ibro-cartilage. They are not gene- rally accompanied by much tume- faction or reddening of the sur- rounding tissue. Louis t states that n all the cases that fell under his lotice, he only once observed ulce- rations on the lingual surface. He ound the breadth of the ulcers to ary from about one to two lines, n some cases the laryngeal surface I » . e epiglottis was entirely deprived f its mucous membrane: in four - he edge of the fibro-cartilage was destroyed, as well as the sur- ftf ulcerated, so as to give the part a festooned appearance ; in a 1 til the epiglottis was totally destroyed. The proportion of hthisical cases in which the epiglottis is affected, appears, accord- b, to the same author, to be about one-fourth. These ulcers are ot, however, the result of a fusion of tubercular deposit, which CEdema of the epiglottis, brought on by drinking scaldmg water, and causing the death of the child, a boy aged three years and nine months m two hours. The uvula, which is seen a little above and to the ri°ht of the epiglottis, was also oedema- tous. No other feature was ob- served, except some reddening of the bronchial mucous membrane, and congestion of the lungs Tra cheotomy was performed. >cjM4?",„\1v“Ut5%inflamraati°n COnlined t0 the ■» “Trans. Path, t “ Researches on Phthisis,” Sydenh. Soc. Ed. p. 42.434 THE LARYNX. seems not to be met with at this point, but of the accompanying inflammation; they, like other affections of the mucous membranes of the air passages which Fig. 97. have been mistaken for Acute ulceration of tire epiglottis and surround- ing parts in a man, caused by taking a large dose of bichloride of mercury. Death followed aftei nine days; there were pneumonia, ulcerationof the stomach, and inflammation of the entire m- testinal tract. tubercular deposit, often originate in occlusion and sebaceous enlargement of the numerous solitary follicles scattered about the respiratory mucous membrane. These vary in size from an almost imperceptible point to a pin’s head, and even to that of a bean;* and closely resemble miliary granulations, surrounded by a halo of blood-vessels, as they appear for in- stance in the pia mater. The microscope, however, reveals their structure; showing the basement membrane of the follicle lined with epithelium, and containing oily mat- ter. The cheesy particles coughed up by many people, are formed partly in the follicular struc- tures of the tonsils; and probably also in the follicles of which we have jus, spoken. The epiglottis is liable to suffer from syphilitic ulceration, by- an es-ten- sion of the disease from the fauces: it very rarely pa^es beyon to the larvnx and trachea. In small-pox and other eruptive fevem, the peculiar poison of the disease often sets up its action in -he respiratory passages: the former may uustules on the glottis, accompanied by a more or less re and serou^1 infiltration ; in the latter ulcerative destruction and cedematous swelling occur. the larynx. The mucous membrane ot the larynx presente the ■me cbarg» . Sec a case detailed in Dr. Bright’s “ Reports,” vol. ii. P- 644.'135 THE LABYXX. pink hue, and consists of a uniform epithelial surface, overlying a basement membrane, underneath ■which the vascular network rami- fies. The surface is broken only by the minute follicles which open upon it. In congestive and inflammatory states this vascular network becomes much distended; the membrane is rendered thick and soft by mere repletion in the first instance, and subsequently by inter- stitial effusion. The more lasting and chronic the inflammatory action, the more this thickened condition is established, and thus a • permanent hypertrophy of the membrane is effected. The colour :of an inflamed respiratory mucous membrane varies according to the intensity, and also according to the character of the inflamma- tion, from a bright crimson or scarlet, to deep purple or dusky red- . ness. The hypercemia is often found to be entirely local; this is chiefly the case in chronic affections : thus we may find it limited to the larynx, the trachea or the bronchi. The character of the inflammation necessarily determines the nature of the products which occur upon and beneath the membrane; tbus we find the 1 three forms of inflammation characteristic of mucous membranes, -the catarrhal, the croupous, and the diphtheritic. Catarrhal Inflammation.—The most acute form is probably that in which, from the contact of a powerful irritant, such as boiling ■ water, an instant effusion of serum takes place in the submucous tissue, causing its distension or cedematous swelling. We have already alluded to the cases in which children have met with their death in cousequence of drinking the hot contents of a kettle from '•ts spout. In some of these it appears that the oedema rather affects .he parts below the epiglottis than the epiglottis itself. Here it is he mechanical effect of the tumefaction of the loose tissue at the glottis and not the intensity of the pathological process, that pro- luces the fatal issue. In catarrhal inflammation of thelarynx, the dyspnoea, and affection >f the voice, depend mainly upon the amount of tumefaction at and lear the rima glottidis; during the first stage there is, as elsewhere, n the mucous membrane a sense of titillation, roughness, and pain; md as the stage of secretion supervenes, these symptoms subside md are relieved by expectoration. This presents various appear- mces to the naked eye ; at first it is a glairy viscid mucus, which ;ubsequently assumes a greenish or yellowish colour, losing its Adhesiveness and forming into opaque rounded pellets. If a blen- lorrhoeic state supervenes, the discharge assumes a purulent cha- ■acter. Under the microscope these varieties can scarcely be •distinguished. In each we find mucous corpuscles and epithelium ; nd if the inflammation has been of sufficient intensity to cause Hemorrhage, we shall also discover blood-corpuscles. Idiopathic aryngitis appears generally to be the result of atmospheric changes ; t runs a rapid course, and it is one of those affections in which0the ’erformanco of tracheotomy may become the means of saving the ■atient’s lifo. The disease acquires an historical interest, from tho ttrcumstance that it proved fatal to Washington. Rokitansky4.16 THE LARYNX. describes a variety which ho considers important on account of its leading to a contraction of the passage. He states it to attack the mucous membrane of the epiglottis and tne duplicatures of the "lottis, converting the mucous membrane and subjacent areolar tissue into a fibro-lardaceous white resistent structure of tolerable thickness, thus giving rise to contraction of the rirna glottidis and the cavity of the larynx. In children, catarrhal inflammation of the larynx may produce all the symptoms of croup ; in which case, though, as Andral ob- serves, the passage of air through the contracted nma gives rise to the well-known sound of croup, the post-mortem examination wdl only exhibit a slight tumefaction of the mucous membrane, with- out any trace of the membranous exudation, which is characteristic of that disease. Chronic catarrh of the larynx may lead to ulcera- tion which starts from the mucous glands; it may occasionally give rise to warty growths, and always produces some thickening of the submucous tissue, with relaxation of the ligaments and muscles Croupous Inflammation of the Larynx."—The larynx is the most frequent seat of croupous exudation, and though occasiona.lv found to extend even into the smaller bronchial ramifications, the deposit in the trachea and bronchi appears invariably to be continuous with the laryngeal exudation. In this form of inflammation raise membranes are produced on the mucous surface, which cover it m more or less perfectly continuous layers. They are composed essen- tiallv of a delicate network of fine threads, entangling numerous mucous corpuscles or leucocytes. The threads have been regarded as fibrinous, and produced by the exudation of a compilable sub- stance from the blood-vessels ; but it is probable that the true ongm and nature of the false membrane are very different. It is usually of a light yellow or cream colour, varies from a mere film to a due and a half in thickness, and is more or less closely attached to the mucous membrane, from which in early stages it cannot be com- pletely separated without wounding the surface. As the disease goes on, however, the layer of false membrane becomes loosened, leaving a brightly injected surface below which may, in some cases, show no further change. . , , , ■ ■ Croup of the larynx and trachea is said by Rmdfleisch to be dntm guishedbv the stratified character of the false membrane ; layers of roundish 'lymphoid cells alternating with homogeneous laier»oI * The reader is particularly referred to the ISth and 20th Leetuits in Hr. West. ■work on the “ Diseases of Infancy,” -vrhich are calculated to em- Croun is a disease known by a great variety of names. ,]p-cribed K The English name croup is of Scotch ongm. and was first,weJleliere in the distinction between them is still involved m some ohscunty.TIIE LAEYNX. •lb 7 ,vhat looks like fibrin ; and lie regards it as uncertain whether it is ilways (in this part) composed, as Wagner supposes, of altered cells, fhe .secretion resembles that of a serous membrane in tenacity, adhesiveness, and coagulability. It is deposited in patches, which nay gradually coalesce, and thus form rings or sheets of greater or less extent; they send off small prolongations into the follicles . scattered over the mucous membrane, by which they are secured in heir place until a suppurative process, underneath, loosens them, and allows them to be thrown off, if the patient retains strength to io so. There rarely are any abrasions of the mucous membrane of he trachea. If there is more than usual difficulty in removing the false membrane from the larynx, this depends, as Dr. West remarks, upon the more extensive alterations which this part of the air tube :.ias undergone. It is generally red and swollen, especially about .he edges of the rima glottidis, the arytenoid cartilages, and the p-penings of the sacculus laryngis. It is in the former that we occa- ionally find small aphthous ulcerations. The diseases with which croupy inflammation is most frequently 'omplicated are bronchitis and pneumonia; though we very com- lonly meet with no other symptoms of morbid action than those ound in the part affected; nor is there any doubt that these may e so slight as altogether to escape observation, in the post-mortem examination. We must here, as elsewhere, be careful not to mis- take the pulmonic congestion, resulting from the suffocative influ- nce of the malady, with inflammatory action, i Diphtheritic Inflammation of the Larynx.—This affection is not lery common, and is usually caused by the extension of the ; iphtheritic process from the pharynx, fauces, or mouth. Still, in iome epidemics of diphtheria, it is not rare, as was first clearly •escribed by Bretonneau of Tours.* According to his observations, ie exudation occurred simultaneously in the pharynx and air •assages in fifty cases, while in one only the former was unaffected. :x or seven times he found that the false membrane extended to "ie smallest bronchi, and in one-third of the entire number it iached beyond the main division of the bronchi; in all the rest it ■rminated at different points of the trachea. I The distinction from croupous inflammation is usually clear ana- 'mically, though in particular cases it may be impossible to dis- Jiguish them clinically. The diphtheritic false membrane cannot -3 separated from the mucous surface without removing more or •ss of the epithelium, or even some of the deeper structures ; bein <>■ - fact, partly composed of altered and necrotic tissue. The de- ructive process may extend to the submucous tissue or even to the •uscles. uncfra^°rt Larynx'—Tho flowing kinds of ulcers are (1) Catarrhal ulcers. These are either produced by necrosis of the 32.Dl4n.fia827nati0nS Sl,l!ciale3 du Tissu mu(lueux,” &c., par P. Bretonneau,438 THE LARYXX. mucous tissue itself, in which case they are small, flat, shallow de- pressions ; or else arise in the mucous follicles, when they are deeper and more’ conical. Neither of these forms extends deeply or causes any serious destruction. . (2) Syphilitic ulcers are much more serious than those just men- tioned They begin mostly at the side of the epiglottis, and form sometimes very deep excavations. They have brightly injected and a swollen edges from which warty growths often arise, if they heal they produce very hard contracting scars which may cause j considerable narrowing of the passage. Sometimes the ulceration spreads very widely, over a large portion of the mucous surface of the larynx, and may extend to the trachea. Under the uicers there is always much thickening and infiltration with lymphoid C°)l^Tvphoid ulcers. In the course of typhoid fever, ulcers some- - times form on the mucous surface of the larynx. They are (accord- ing to Forster) irregular, angular, deep, with villous margin and base ; and arise from a new formation of small cells in the mucous j membrane leading to sloughing. They are not usually deep, but; still a remarkable case is recorded by Ur. Wilks, in which an ulcer of this kind situated behind, at the junction of the vocal chords, had quite perforated the wall, admitting air and mucus into a space in front of the oesophagus. The air which thus made, its way into the posterior mediastinum penetrated into the thoracic walls, and; nroduced general subcutaneous emphysema. (41 Variolous ulcers are produced in the course of smaU-pox, by the formation and rupture of pustules on the mucous surface. Ulceration of the larynx also occurs m glanders. Tubercular or Phthisical Affections of the Larynx;; Phthisis.-It is very common m cases of pulmonary phthisis to find catarrh swelling of the follicular structures, and ulceration of the l'irvnx ’ The latter has been generally described as tubercular, but much doubt exists whether the disease originates m or is even in most cases accompanied by the formation of tubercles even w these are undoubtedly present m the lungs. Sometimes, Tou not commonly, tubercles are found m the parts surrounding the ulcer. Hence the greatest diversity of opimon has prevailed anion. PaTh°e1s°egultcers may be scarcely udder than a large piiTshead bu by their confluence produce broad irregular patches. Their edge, are often thickened or indurated, sometimes givingorigmtopapd- lary growths. The surrounding parts are injected but less. ^ that in ^syphilitic disease. Rokitansky states that tubercle is depo in the form of grey granulations m the submucous areola, tissue^r as ydlow caseous matter, infiltrated into, the mucou membrane. He has found it constantly and exclusively in th vicinity of the transverse muscles and the adjacent arytrenoid c * “ Pathological Transactions,” 1S5S, vol. ix. p. 31.439 THE LARYNX. • tilages. His experience is strikingly at variance with that of Louis, who has not in a single instance met with tuberculous granulations in the substance, or on the surface of the epiglottis, larynx, or •:trachea. Dr. Watson attributes the ulcers of the larynx occim-ing in phthisis exclusively to the acridity of the sputa, but although ithe sputa manifestly exercise an influence in their production, there ■ must be some further cause, as they are by no means constant i accompaniments of phthisis; and as they do not form at some ; points, e.g., the ventricles of the larynx, in which a lodgment of - sputa must constantly take place. Louis states ulcers in the .larynx to have occurred in a fourth part of his cases. Forster, who gave much attention to this subject, thought that the doubts which had been expressed as to the nature of true tubercular disease in the larynx, had arisen from want of minute microscopical investigation. He regarded the ulcers as arising either from the necrosis of groups of miliary tubercles, or else from a dif- fuse infiltration. Virchow states that when a tubercle is situated superficially in a mucous membrane, its decay begins from the out- side till it falls out leaving an ulcer. The absence of yellow gra- nular or cheesy matter, which has led some to deny the analogy of this morbid process with tubercular phthisis, is to be explained by the rapid and early removal of the degenerated products. As to the situation of the ulcers, Forster* found among fifty carefully inves- tigated cases, sixteen in which they were confined to the posterior commissure, and eight more in which the posterior commissure and posterior wall were the only parts affected, while in most of the others the affected area was more extensive. This shows a marked predilection of the posterior half of the larynx to this disease. In fifteen out of fifty cases, the trachea was likewise affected. This affection is almost always secondary to pulmonary phthisis; as a primary disease, it is exceedingly rare. This lends some support to a modification of the older view, that these ulcerations were produced by the sputa from a phthisical lung; since such pro- . ducts are admitted to be capable of producing tubercles by local infection. In children, ulceration of the air passages is scarcely ever met with ; Dr. Westf has only seen it once in early life; on that occa- sion, several small excavated erosions were found, just above the chord® vocales, in a child of twenty months, besides a general red- ness of the bronchial tubes. In the larynx their site is generally at the junction of the vocal chords, on the vocal chords themselves, and on the arytenoid cartilages. Affections of deeper parts of the Larynx.—The submucous tissue, the cartilages and their perichondrium, are often affected by exten- sion of disease from the mucous membrane, especially in cases of * “Handbueh tier Path. Anat.,” vol. ii. p. 320. 2nd edition, 1863 a A,iTj1!.,erC,ular ulc.eration larynx in a case of general tuberculosis occurring in a child aged seven is reported m the “ Pathological Transactions” for 18S9 vol xx p. 33.440 THE LAKYNX. syphilitic or phthisical disease; and in this way extensive destruc- tion of the deeper structures produced. Primary perichondritis, or inflammation of the membrane cover- ing the cartilages, occurs most often as a consequence of syphilis! It may give rise to an abscess, which causes even fatal obstruction of the glottis before it bursts; or to deep-seated ulceration and necrosis of the cartilage.* Abscess very rarely occurs independent of syphilis, t The necrosed cartilage may he completely separated by suppura- tion and even expectorated during life. New Growths in the Larynx.—These have lately received much attention since their examination has been facilitated by the laryn- goscope. In the great majority of cases they are seated on the vocal chords. According to the statistics of Dr. Morell Mackenzie,$ the most common form of growth is a papilloma or papillary out- growth, consisting of an hypertrophied vascular papilla with more or less connective tissue, and covered with epithelium, some- times sessile, sometimes pedunculated. These amounted to 07 per cent, in his list of cases (from which all cancers or malignant tumours were carefully excluded). Eihromata, including fibrous and so-called fibro-cellular tumours, come next, giving 16 per cent. These are generally pedunculated and make up the chief part of what have been called fibrous or mucous polypi. Other simple tumours, such as myxoma, lipoma, adenoma, angioma, and cystic growths have been very rarely observed, mostly in one or two instances only. Sarcoma is somewhat more frequent; nine cases of the spindle-celled variety having been observed or collected by Dr. Mackenzie. Simple epithelial growths, produced by mere hyperplasia of the epithelium, without any outgrowth of papillse (as in papilloma), and sessile, constituted 5 per cent, of the cases. Epithelioma is not common, though we cannot form any opinion as to its relative frequency as compared with other growths. It may form prominent outgrowths, but its more constant and more dangerous habit is to cause deep ulceration, which, after destroying the larynx, may perforate the oesophagus. Cancer (scirrhous or medullary) is extremely rare.§ _ The laryngeal cartilages have a tendency to ossily in advanced life in obedience to the general law affecting similar structures, hut this metamorphosis is also produced by disease ; and it is pro- bably in those cases of chronic laryngitis chiefly, which are con- nected with a rheumatic diathesis, and originate in the perichond- rium, that this metamorphosis takes place. The larynx is not so liable to be affected by tumours or foreign bodies pressing upon it » “ Trans. Path. Soc.,” 1864, vol. xv. p. 36. + “ Trans. Path. Soc.,” 1868, vol. xix. p. 74. ± “ Essay on Growths in the Larynx.” London, 1871. § Cases of epithelioma of the larynx are recorded in Hie I’ath<j_ „ M. actions,” vol. x. p. 63; vol. xii, pp. 44, 104 ; vol. xin. pp. >3, 2b, tol. xy PP- 5.1, &4, vol xvii. pp. 22! 33; vol. xviii. p. 26, &c. Primary cancer of the meduUai; kina is recorded by Hr. Broadbent, vol. xii. p. 44 (second case). ‘ Pathological Trans-441 TIIB TRACHEA. as other parts of the respiratory system, on account of the greater : rigidity of its walls, and the capaciousness of its interior. Foreign bodies arrested in the oesophagus generally become impacted behind • the larynx ; when introduced by the glottis, they may become fixed in the chink; but if they pass the portal they necessarily drop through the wider cavity of the larynx, and become fixed at some lower point, or play up and down in the trachea. A singular accident which has been known to happen is eversion of the sacculus larvngis, producmg a body precisely like a tumour. * THE TRACHEA. Many of the observations which we have had occasion to make on the pathology of the larynx apply to the trachea. The congestion lof the mucous membrane presents similar characters; it is generally Fio. 98. mfc™ folllclf of mueoui? membrane of the trachea, closely resembling i-lifR f™-"’Iatmns, and accompanying' pulmonary phthisis. The drawing on the ^aneniargedvrew of a single follicle, sun-minded by enlarged and congested 4'her power slanduIar structure was distinctly apparent when examined under a observed to be most marked in the membranous interstices, be- l ,h? nn"s and at. tho posterior part. Occasionally it is nunried by a sharp outline; thus, where the hyperremiu of the •rachea is associated with disease of one lung, it may bo seen on • Moxon : “ Path. Trans.,” vol. xix. p. 66, Morell Mackenzie, op. oil. p. 3-1.THE TRACHEA. 442 the corresponding half of tho former only, the mesian line forming the division between the normal pale tissue and the portion that presents increased vascularity. A similar observation has been made with regard to tho occurrence of ulcers, viz., that v. hen fol- lowing unilateral pulmonary disease, they are confined to the cor- responding side of the trachea. Otherwise the point of divergence of the bronchi and the posterior mesian line are the most frequent seat of tracheal ulcers. They may often be traced to follicular in- flammation, in the same way as obstructed solitary follicles put on the appearance of tubercular deposit. Enlargement of the follicles is far more characteristic of tracheal inflammation than of that of the larynx or bronchi. , , Tubercular ulceration of the trachea rarely if ever occurs without the same disease of the larynx. The essential connection between ulceration of the trachea and pulmonary phthisis, is even more firmly established than in regard to the relation between the latter and laryngeal ulceration. Louis* found that of 190 phthis:calp subjects, seventy-six presented ulcerations in the trachea, wlnie. in 500 non-phthisical subjects carried off by chronic diseases, exa- mined by the same pathologist, not one presented any tracheal or laryngeal ulceration. A curious circumstance connected with this question is, the different ratio in which the two sexes are effected ; thus, Louis has shown, that while only about one-fourth of the females who succumb to pulmonary consumption exfu Hit ulcers in the trachea, they are found m half the male subjects similarly diseased. . , Diphtheritic and croupous inflammation of the trachea prerent no characters which differ from the phenomena exhibited by these dis- eases when affecting the larynx alone. , Syphilitic affections of the trachea are not common, except as an extension of the same disease affecting the larynx. , Ulceration of the trachea and bronchi, without participation o the larynx, has been sometimes, though very rarely, observed. Perforation of the trachea sometimes occurs m consequence of extension of cancerous disease from the oesophagus, or simply from the pressure of an aneurism or other tumour. _ New growths in general, polypi, epithelioma, and others, . far less common than in the larynx. . , » xp0 The rings of the trachea, like the cartilaginous structures of the larynx, are liable to become abnormally ossified, a condition which does not in itself exert any material influence on the health of the individual. The functions of the trachea are more liable to be m terfered with than those of the upper portion of the an tubes. pressure exerted from without; encysted tumours, hypertrop^ and other diseased conditions of the thyroid gland, aneunsmal tumours of the carotid or subclavian arteries or of the arch of the aorta, enlarged cervical glands, tumours, and foreign b * “ On Phthisis,” Syd. Soc. Ed. p. 42.THE TRACHEA. 443 oesophagus, phlegmonous erysipelas and diffuse abscesses in the vicinity, may each induce compression of the windpipe to such an extent as to cause death, or interfere with its functions by pressing on the recurrent laryngeal nerve. The practical question which arises in these cases regards the propriety of performing laryngo- toiny or tracheotomy; it is also one that requires great judgment in connection with disease of the mucous membrane, and the pre- sence of foreign bodies within the tube. Diverticula are described as occasionally forming in the trachea, by a dilatation of a portion of the posterior wall and consequent protrusion into the oesophagus between the ends of the tracheal rings ; they have been attributed by Rokitansky to an hypertrophy of the muciparous glands. The dilated duct of the hypertrophied cysts may be discovered in the pouch; which confirms the explana- tion of its origin. When met with in the trachea, a similar condi- tion is sometimes traceable in the bronchial tubes. Foreign Bodies in the Trachea.—The presence of extraneous mat- ters in the air passages is always an occurrence of very serious import; but unless the substance becomes impacted in the lima glottidis, it is not immediately fatal; the mucous membrane of the lower portions being less irritable and less liable to produce spas- modic action. The more rough the surface of the foreign body, the sooner inflammation is likely to supervene; and unless it be re- moved by coughing, or by an operative proceeding,, the issue is certain death. If of a globular form, and too large to enter into the bronchi, it will pass up and down in the trachea, giving rise to a variety of sounds. Cherry-stones, buttons, coins, teeth, morsels of food, portions of bone and other things, have thus found their way into the trachea, and remained there or got impacted in the bronchi. Such bodies find their way, in an immense majority of cases, into the right bronchus rather than the left, owing to the former being a more direct continuation of the trachea than the latter. One case is recorded by Mr. Liston,* as a solitary instance, of a piece of bone having lodged in the right bronchus, and having been discovered and removed during life. A triangular piece of mutton-bone had, six months previous to the operation, become entangled in the glottis, and shortly after slipped down the trachea. A perfect recovery resulted. Portions of food may repeatedly pass into the air passages in the case of persons whose power of swallowing is impaired, either from central paralysis, or from the pressure of tumours, aneurism, &c., on the nerves. The food will always pass by preference into the right bronchus, and set up pneumonia of the right lower lobe. The contents of the stomach may sometimes after death be forced up the oesophagus by distension of tho intestines, and reach the same _ destination. Softening of the lung results if the stomach contained fresh gastric fluid, and may be mistaken for gangrene, “ Practical Surgery," 3rd ed. p. 412.444 THE THACHEA. but will be distinguished by the absence of the true gangrenous odour. The upper portion of the air tube is also liable to fatal injuries inflicted accidentally or intentionally. In those cases in which life is not immediately destroyed by haemorrhage, the injury may prove fatal by the secondary inflammation and tumefaction of the mucous membrane, or by coagula obstructing the passage of air. The latter is particularly likely to happen as a consequence of hasty surgical interference, in prematurely sewing up the wound, and thus pre- venting the necessary escape of the blood.Hemorrhage, otymol. c*W, blood ; I rupture ; Jayut, a cleft, a fissure. CHAPTEE XXX. THE BRONCHIAL TUBES. 1 The diseases of the bronchial tubes affect the individual very dif- itferently, according as the larger or smaller divisions are the seat of the morbid action. Thus the same amount of tumefaction which, An the mucous membrane of the bronchi near the trachea, will •scarcely give rise to any inconvenience, will, in the finer ramifica- :.tions, be the cause of intense dyspnoea and danger. The terminal points of the respiratory system, in this respect, resemble each other; an acute tumefaction about the aperture of the larynx, and * at the opposite end of the bronchial tree, may equally induce suf- ! focative symptoms. . Moreover, it is not always easy to determine ' the limits of bronchial and parenchymatous disease of the lungs ; ;iand it is scarcely possible that inflammatory affections of the latter can take place without involving the smaller bronchi. Bronchial Hypercemia and _ Ho&morrliage. — Hypenemia of the ^bronchial mucous membrane is a phenomenon of everyday occur- rence, accompanying catarrh, and gastro-mtestinal, hepatic or car- Iidiac affections, and manifested in its most marked forms by litemor- Aiomoptysis, which in the early or preliminary stages of HHithisis is usually dejiendent on bronchial haemorrhage, is rarely .idiopathic as a mere result of plethora, but commonly associated with a deeper seated morbid affection; a crasis subsequently mani- festing itself by further disorganization, or an organic disease, which has already been discovered. Pathologists have not yet succeeded in demonstrating the exact manner in which capillary -tuemorrhage takes place; in a few instances of advanced tuber- culosis, patulous vessels which were eroded by the progress of the ulceration, have been discovered, to which pulmonary ha3inorrha°-e 'ould be attributed ; but the common process by which the blood s discharged, is perhaps analogous to the “ sweating” of blood, Py which, the menstrual flow has been observed to be effected; it s rather by what has been termed exhalation or cliapedesis that ;he overloaded vessels relieve themselves, than, as the term ifemorrhago* implies, by laceration or rupture. The researches of4-16 THE BRONCHIAL TUBES. Coknkoim have shown the possibility of this method of extravasa- tion. Haemorrhage is not a mere passive occurrence, resulting from a retardation of the vascular current, or we should find it accompanying hypostatic congestion, which it does not; it must he looked upon as an evidence of further disease of an active character, as a symptom calling for our careful attention, but only to he treated in reference to a fundamental affection. Hcemorrhage from the lungs rarely proves fatal in itself, though at times the amount of blood lost is very considerable. Dr. Copland quotes the case of a patient who lost about 192 ounces in '.wenty- four hours and recovered. The frequency with which it is associ- ated with phthisis, has been determined by Louis to be about two- thirds of a LI the cases; a relation which is confirmed by recent observers, and one which, taken with other circumstances, casts much suspicion on the nature of the cases of so-called vicarious haemorrhages, whether they are supposed to take the place of the menstrual or hiemorrhoidal discharge. The difficulty of explaining the mode in which hsemoptysis takes place, is as great in regard to the stages of softening as in the earlier stage of crudity; the vessels become obliterated in the former instance as the tubercular matter and pulmonary tissues deliquesce, and we rarely are able to discover the open mouths of lacerated vessels. At a future page we shall also have occasion to see that the haemorrhage into the tissue of the organs constituting pulmonary apoplexy, is distinct from that bronchial haemorrhage with which luemoiitysis is commonly associated. In either stage, therefore, of tubercular disease, it is possible that the discharge takes place from the bronchial mucous membrane. The relation of haemoptysis to the different stages of phthisis, is one to which Dr. "Walske* has especially directed his attention; the results of an analysis of the cases which had occurred at the Hospital for Con- sumption at Brompton, in reference to this question, are as follow: Number of Casea. Frequency of Hfemoptysis. Absolute. i Per Cent. First stage 39 2S 7179 Second stage 20 IS 90 00 Third stage 69 57 S261 The proportion changes somewhat, when the analysis is made for each of the sexes; we then find that the increase of haemoptysis during the second and third stages is considerably greater in men than in women, which may fairly be explained by the greater bodily labour, and increased tax upon the pulmonary circulation, 0 “ Medico-Chimrgicul Review,” vol. iii. p. 225.447 BRONCHITIS. in the former than in the latter ; it rather tends to show that the exciting influence of the tubercular cachexia itself, in producing the haemorrhage, is greater than that of its secondary results. The following is the table illustrating this point:— Males. Haemoptysis. Females. Haemoptysis. Number of Cases. Absolute frequency. Per Cent, frequency. Number of Cases. Absolute frequency. Per Cent, frequency. Jst stage 2ail aad 3rd IS 12 6663 21 16 76'19 stages 56 49 87'50 33 26 78-78 Evidence of Haemorrhage.—The anatomical signs after death of bleeding into the bronchi (from whatever source) are very distinct when once clearly appreciated. The blood in the trachea or . larger bronchi is by the respiratory movements drawn into the - smaller tubes, which it blocks up; the air which they contain, . together with the residual air of the air-cells, being driven back into the latter and there imprisoned. When the hemorrhage is : recent, the lung tissue will accordingly be found over-distended, * almost emphysematous and pale; the bronchi occupied by the * blood forming bright red spots in it. Subsequently, however, the imprisoned air is absorbed and the tissue collapses, while the blood pigment becomes diffused into the parts surrounding the bronchial tabes, producing first a red, and ultimately a black staining. The 1 citation of the blood sometimes sets up inflammation in the form of bronchitis and catarrhal pneumonia. BRONCHITIS. . inflammation of the bronchi we find the same variations of injection and secretion that are presented to us in similar con- i ditions of the upper portions of the air conduit; but the nearer we approach the terminations of the subdivisions, the more the bron- chules will be found filled with the fluids poured into them, cor- responding in character, in a measure, to the sputa seen before death, but with a greater admixture of air, the less viscid and tenacious the secretion. The post-mortem appearances may be nmned to mere redness of the mucous membrane. In the smallest ■subdivisions wo must be careful to discriminate between the iniec- uon of the bronchules and the redness resulting from the trans - uc-ency of their tissue, allowing the colour of the subjacent pulmonary parenchyma to shine through. The redness is gene- raUy tolerably uniform in the part affected, fading off at the rntrgin nto the healthy tissue'; we do not commonly meet with that448 BRONCHITIS. arborescent or pnnctiform injection in the bronchi, which is seen in inflammations of other mucous membranes, as that of the stomach. Sometimes the affection resides exclusively in the larger bronchi, is fading off in the smaller divisions; at others it occupies the reverse t Fig. 99. relation ; the danger to the individual increasing with the number: of small tubes affected; the tumefaction and loss of elasticity in which, necessarily exert a great influence in producing dyspnoea. The actual sense of the difficulty of breathing, as well as the real. absence of proper aeration of the blood, shown by the lividity of the patient, has • appeared to us to be greater in these? cases of capillary bronchitis than in pneumonia. The more asthenic the form of bronchitis, the more the redness • of the bronchial mucous membrane ap- ■ proaches a livid purplish tint; it is generally found of this hue in the chronic forms. The secretions will vary accord- ■ ing to the stage and character of the s disease, from a viscid glazy mucus, to a . genuine purulent discharge of a more or less diffluent character. Occasionally, death is the result of a sudden effusion : of liquid into the bronchi, constituting : what is called suffocative catarrh, which is met with more frequently in the infant t than in the adult. Long-continued purulent expectoration may, however, have existed during life, without any appreciable lesion being discovered after death; in these cases, the bronchial l mucous membrane, as Andral* observes, need not even present a trace of redness. . In examining the lungs we must be careful to compare different portions, before arriving at definite conclusions; for it is often difficult to determine to which part the fluids belong which exude on section. The surest way to ascertain the state of the parietes and contents of the bronchi, is to follow them from the larger trunks with a pair of scissors, being careful not to admit more extraneous matter into the tubes than we can help. Plastic Bronchitis; Bronchial Polypi.—True croupy inflammation I may affect the bronchi, as it does the upper respiratory passages, though it is met with less frequently ; complete moulds of portions of the bronchial tree present themselves to us ; the influence they exert upon respiration depends partly upon the obstruction they j themselves offer, and partly upon the tumefaction of the subjacen i mucous membrane. * “ Precis d’Anatomic Pathologique,” vol. ii. p. 481. Injection and stasis in the vessels of the bronchial mucous membrane, in bronchitis, seen by a low power. The vessels were disposed in longitudinal clusters united by transverse inosculations.449 BRONCHITIS. t Trans. Path. Soc.” vol. v. p. 41. The mucous membrane of the bronchi, like the mucous membrane of the urmo- genital organs, occasionally exhibits a chronic affection ot this kind, in which, without marked symptoms of an inflam- matory character, the membrane pours out a plastic exudation which forms, what have been termed, bronchial polypi; that is to say’ more or less complete moulds of the bronchial tubes, sometimes solid or even laminated, sometimes hollow. These casts are usually expectorated m a curiously convoluted form, being rolled up, as it were, into pellets during the act of expectoration; but when placed in. water, expand into an arborescent form cor- responding to the ramifications of the bronchi. The process some- times extends^ into the very smallest tubes, and we have seen the cas.s teimmiued by a rough mould of the alveolar spaces, a fact which connects this affection with pneumonia. The “ nolvni ” n-rp composed of a firm network of fibrin, enclosing numerous leu- rSd antu S°me t6W red C01'Puscles; 80 that in structure they •resemble the pneumonic exudation. Their expulsion is often a^mpamed or preceded by bronchial haemorrhage, but there is not mffiment leason for concluding, as some have done, that the casts d sm', VTlm?tbrP)°'S> f C°aguktelblood. Sir Thomas Watson luseryes, that though it is surprising that patients should recover the affection, it never in itself seems to prove fatal. Dr Reid* las reported two cases of tubular expectoration from the bronchi ™ aduby with delineations, which closely resemble bat given by Dr. Baillie. in his work on Morbid Anatomy. In one patient, a married lady, aged twenty-eight, affected with a hromc cough, consequent upon an attack of bronchitis, frequently M m °atlVe 1a1tta°ks’ cou-hed UP arborescent meSanorm cm,! ’ resembll,n.g casts of the minute bronchial tubes ■ the tSled " plenum, aged forty-four, and closely , rerVeXCept there was more manifest conges- aei^ refection eachmore of a sanguineous character, and , * rtJ^ct?on eath time accompanied by some hsemorrlno-o Tf 3 ^ b° m°-’e frC(iueilt on the continent of Europe where the ! iSftS„Camear0ff r1 amoi' Itpp Empress Josephme is the best known. & i-J of th; 1 SOm° yeal’n ag0 analyzed more than thirty recorded thelti"ldlSeaS?>. and found tbat the great majority occurred Urn male sex, andin persons m middle life. In about half • #~ "suaIly due 10 «• “"se' ) ihere are some ciifficulties in tho of 1 'onclM (;xudabon being produced upon such a surface as’the ! flCbal mUC0US “^raue when it'is found (as S^uaUyt) , ,, Medico-Chirurgical Transactions,” v ol. xxxvii. p. 333.450 ULCERATION OF TIIE BRONCHI. 5 “Trans. Path. Sou.” vol. x. p. 69. quite unaltered. It has, therefore, been urged by Dr. Bristowe* j that in some cases the exudation is not produced by tne mucous membrane, but coagulablo material effused into tbe air-cellr* finds its way into the smaller bronchial tubes, and is there moulded into the shape in which it is found. The material is certainly identical with that which fills the air-vesicles in pneumonia. We mav repeat that we have seen small casts terminated by a rough mould I of the alveolar spaces, such as is seen in pneumonia. More- over, in the latter complaint it is not unusual to find small masses of lymph prolonged into the bronchial tubes for the distance of. half or a quarter of an inch. This explanation is therefore ex- tremely plausible in those cases in which the fibrinous bronchial casts accompany pneumonia. The casts are chiefly found in the. smaller bronchi, up to those as large as a quill; and then extend continuously into the smaller ramifications. Numerous cases ot this affection are recorded in the Transactions of the Pathological Society.t They cannot always be clearly separated from laryngeal, or tracheal croup extending to the bronchi. Diphtheria sometimes attacks the bronchial mucous membrane; but so far as is yet known, only subsequently to the same disease* in the larynx and trachea. A case of this kind is recorded by Dr. Murchison! in which the larynx, trachea, and bronchi, down to. their fine ramifications, were lined with a thick false membrane,:- forming a perfect cast of these tubes, but easily detached from the subjacent membrane, which was intensely injected. The lafre membrane was everywhere made up of altered epithelial cells vm- out any fibrillated structured In a very similar case, described as croup, but in which there were false membranes on the tonsils,- the false membranes extended m part of the lung to the finret bronchi, starting with the larynx and trachea. || M e have lately seen a perfectly analogous case, in which the clinical symptom; were those of diphtheria. ULCERATION OF THE BRONCHI. Simple inflammation of the bronchi without any specific cha racter may undoubtedly lead to ulceration. The “ catarrhal ulcer thus formed are small, shallow, and confined to the epitkena structures. Deep ulceration extending to the submucous tissue, o still deeper, also occurs ; but this, as m the larynx and trachea i mainly a concomitant of phthisis. It has been observed by fev authors, probably on account of the care requisite in the examrna tion, to discover an abrasion in these parts. Louis, who examine- : :.‘S: Path. Soc.” vol. (statistics) vol. vi. pp. 59, 68; vol.vii. pp.54,N vol -xvi. p. 48; vol- xvn. p 29; vol. xxi. p. 64. 1 - •—of croup-ULCERATION OP THE BRONCHI. 4,31 tlie bronchi of forty-nine phthisical subjects, with special regard to this point, found ulcerations in twenty-two. Dr. Copland is of opinion that ulcers occasionally perforate the bronchial tubes, and thus occasion abscesses in the pulmonary parenchyma, and there is no doubt that this is one of the processes by which cavities in phthisis are produced. In these cases there appears to be an antecedent production of tubercles in the mucous membrane and tubercles may often be seen in the neighbourhood of such an ulcer If they are wanting, it is still possible that the ulcer may have been originally tubercular; but no perfectly definite rule Clin be laid down to distinguish tubercular from simple catarrhal ulcers. D has also been supposed that there is a syphilitic ulceration of the bronchi as of the trachea and larynx, but this hardly seems to be estabfished with certainty. Some instances of extensive ulcer- ation independent of tubercle or any specific disease, are, however recorded. In a case of this kind observed by the editor* the ' wnf °( ?arlir aU tbe bronchi of both ^ngs as well as the tiachea, but not the larynx, was covered with ulcers, sharply defined and of u-regular shape. They extended nearly through the mucous membrane, and appeared to have their starting-point in an infiltration with lymphoid cells which affected all the mucous and nar(-mUfbotjh °f the cartila§inous and non-cartilaginous parts of the wall; and was unconnected either with the mucou« *d\tbe carriage, or the perichondrium. It had much resem- thoash ii“"u oot b° °Hhe Br°nchi.-Other morbid states, besides those already alluded to, may give rise to obstruction or stenosis of the thenShai tUbeSi may be Produced by an actual hypertrophy of the submucous layers, as a result of chronic bronchial irritation or y serous effusion, as in dropsical states of the system The SirP T m th6Se different cases may be identical, being produceil by analogous structural alterations ; but it is manifest ‘^nsidhe mn'StltUtli'nal ^asis uPon which they rest may differ very ons^erably as also the influence they exert in livino- subjects upon the further production of morbid conditions ° J ' rp J . 1 ~ K - UiU UUIHIILIU11S. ^ 4fMttona.— The pulmonic symptoms accompanying •So.,.,I ; It 8tate8 14 al™y» to appear as an intense iolet fin? g n°n ; th? mucous membrane is of a dark, almost LatLo,SWsllen a“d succulent, and yields a secretion of a jLft ar}^ 80rnehnies dark, blood-streaked mucus. The n tbo ’KaCC°nd?g to -Jb18 autll0r> is most commonly developed ■mited to the stage of congTstion, and never 'rise to of ^parent production of a secondary formation in^.the tissue of the I “ p®2?°1!og?ca,1 Transactions,” 1869, vol. xx, p. 30, and pi 1 t Pathological Anatomy,” vol. iv. p. 23, 8yd. Soc. Ed PDILATATION OF TIDE BRONCHI. 452 mucous membrane, such as is produced in immense quantity in the intestinal follicles in cases ot “ abdominal typhus )«•«., typhoid fever). The submucous tissues may be variously affected m the bronchi, as in air-passages already considered. The cartilaginous rings may undergo a process of softening or become ossified, in the latter case, they become brittle, and break ; they then either pro- ject like fish-bones, as Andral observes, into the bronchial cavity, or, becoming detached, are expectorated. DILATATION OF THE BRONCHI. Many of the lesions to -which -we have adverted may co-operate in producing a morbid condition of the bronchi, to -which Laennec -was the first to draw attention, and which, though of extreme importance in a nosological point of view, has hitherto been treated 1 rather as a question affect- Pig. 100. ing the pathologist than the practitioner. It is dilatation of the bronchi or bronchiec- tasis.* By Laennec it was attributed exclusively to an accumulation of mucus in the ramifications of the dilated portion: but, as Dr. C. J. B. Williams justly observes, if this were the cause we should not, as we do, hear the air penetrate freely into the dilated portions. There may, undoubtedly, be various effi- cient, causes at play in the production of this diseased state, both of a mechanical and of a more dynamical character. The most pal- pable instance of the former is presented to us in the case Dilated bronchi, ft om a female aged fifty- two who had suffered from chrome pneu- monia and bronchitis for tin ee years; the pulmonary tissue intervening between the bronchi was much condensed. of an enlarged bronchial eland whether it contains cretaceous or simply scrofulous matter, compressing a bronchus. Here, the free exit of the respired atmo- sphere being prevented, an accumulation of am might be supposed • Ftvmoloc-V,—/3p<Wx«,, the bronchi, and lKraait, dilatation, from T ' We mavtake this opportunity of remarking upon the distinction which ‘‘’fbl b Imvehrtdy made between bronchia and bronchi; it is a source of some confusion, an souceh warranted by tlieir etymology of the words ; if a diminution is required, the ic-i-m broncliule is more convenient, and not liable to be mistaken.DILATATION OF THE BRONCHI. 4<3»3 to take place behind the narrowed portal, the channels being pre- vented ever collapsing to the same extent as a healthy lung Any impediment to the entrance or exit of the air into the lungs will produce irregular and forcible breathing, and throw a greater bstacleP°n tP°S6 partS GSPecially, which are in the vicinity of the . 0ne Point having yielded, it is quite intelligible that the disten- sion should gradually progress, while, at the same time, it must, m a corresponding ratio, compress and gradually obliterate the Fig. 101. Cretaceous enlargement of a bronchial gland, compressing the rie*ht bmuob winch is much dilated beyond the point. g bronchus, sniToundmg^pulmonary tissue. In the majority of instances n °f bronchial P^ietes, if not, as Corrigan has Ft, stea, ot the pulmonary parenchyma itself m-cnorW n ■oceuiTcnco of bronchioctesiJ 'wtak fore ^ t0 Whi°h th° br°nChi ZuiZo-454 DILATATION OF THE BRONCHI. t “.Trans. Path. Soc.,” vol. vi. i>. 57. place in the tissues which are likely to give rise to it, any violent effort to distend the lungs, as in catarrh, bronchitis, or hooping- cough, may he the exciting cause. Forms of Bronchial Dilatation.—The three forms which Laennec describes have been successively adopted with some modifications by subsequent writers, though none have been satisfied with his rationale. In the first there is a solitary cystic dilatation or a series of distinct dilatations of a more or les3 spherical form, commonly affecting bronchi of the third and fourth order; these forms are essentially the same, and they generally present con- siderable attenuation of the dilated portions, while the interv emng parts of the bronchi remain normal. The second (or Laennec s third form) differs entirely from those just considered, and consists in an almost uniform or cylindrical expansion of a single tube, or an entire section of the bronchial tree. The third form of some other writers, as Forster, is that of fusiform dilatation, constituting a transition between the two just mentioned. It is m the cylin- drical dilatation that we meet with thickening of the parietes, tumefaction of the mucous membrane, which may be thrown into folds resembling those of the small intestine, and a propor- tionate increase in the subjacent fibrous tissue. When the dilatation affects the apex of the lung, it may proceed to such an extent as to resemble a tuberculous multilocular caiitv. The perfect continuity of the mucous lining with that of the adjoining bronchi, and the smoothness of the tissues, will aid in determining the nature of the lesion, if there be any doubt. The first form or saccular dilatation is not very common, lhe sacs may be as large as a walnut, or more rarely the size of an egg or larger. The bronchus opens into the cavity sometimes with it full wTdth; sometimes by a constricted opening, which may be even altogether obliterated, so that the cavity represents a closed c-yst. The cavity contains mucus and pus, sometimes extremely ieti • When there are several such cavities they may occupy a great part of the lung, and produce during life all the physical signs of phthisical vomicte.t . . , , nTw1 The cylindrical form of dilatation is the most common, and is sometimes pretty general in both lungs It is not wnmU larger bronchi, but begins mostly m those of the thud oide . These tubes, instead of becoming smaller, as they would norm, do, retain a uniform diameter or become larger and preserve this enlargement till close under the pleura, where they end mostly in * “Tted tS/X fusiform, has teen described the tateWj* uneq unlly dilated in a spindle-shaped manner. It differs, toweve, but little from that last described, constituting perhaps a tiansition to the sacculated variety. It is very uncommon. * See Laennec’s “ TraitC- de 1’Auscultation Mc'dfcale,” &c., 1S2S, voL *• p' 206'DILATATION OF THE BRONCHI. 455 It appears from Dr. West’s description that in children the fusi- form variety of bronchial dilatation is rarely, if ever found, while the cylindrical form is a common result of bronchitis. On one occa- - sion, however, he saw a case in which, in addition to a general cylindrical enlargement of the tubes, many of them presented a marked dilatation, about half an inch from their termination, the tube expanding into a cavity big enough to hold half a large nut. I The lining mucous membrane presented an extraordinary degree of : thickening. Condition of the Walls.—The walls of the dilated bronchial tubes i vary much as to the degree and manner in which they are affected. ' Sometimes they are much wasted and attenuated, less commonly • thickened—the latter chiefly in the saccular form. The elastic fibres are (according to Forster) always diminished, and the in- creased thickness, which is only found in chronic cases where the dilatation has existed a long time, is said to be always due to hypertrophy of fibrous tissue. The smooth muscle-fibres of the bronchial tubes are said by the same authority to be unaltered in the thickened walls. The inner surface is often uneven, being ' traversed by ridges, which leave deep recesses between them. The : mucous membrane is usually in a state of chronic inflammation, ■ being swollen, injected, and covered with purulent secretion. 1 Occasionally the suppuration extends to the deeper tissue, destroy- ing the wall and causing ulceration, from which ultimately a cavity may result. Condition of the Pulmonary Tissue.—The surrounding paren- chyma of the lung presents two orders of changes, the one thought to be connected with the production of bronchial dilatation, the other resulting from it. In the former case there is induration, imperfect expansion, or contraction of the lung tissue ; and putting tithe case conversely, it may be said that whenever these conditions are present there is more or less dilatation of the bronchial tubes. ! This sequence is seen in phthisical conditions of the lung, in chronic f Dmutnonio., and especially in that peculiar condition called bv I Lomgan cirrhosis of the lung. Wasting of the lung tissue is very | common, and sometimes reaches an extreme degree, so that all the j tissue intervening between the dilated tubes disappears, and the » latter come in contact, or even form communications one with J: the other. This is usually set down as a consequence of the 1 dilatation, but since atrophy often results from the conditions just mentioned, which lead to induration and contraction, it is • not certain that so clear a line should be drawn between the Ptwo. When induration takes place, destruction of the lun» | gangrene, and perforation of the pleura, with its consequences’ may result. ’ Causes of Dilatation of the Bronchi.—By far the commonest ntecetlont condition is bronchitis, especially a chronic form of it ana this supplies at once two factors which are doubtless concerned the production of dilatation, viz., relaxation of the walls, which4o6 DILATATION OF TUE BBOKCHI. • “ Trans. Path. Soc.,” 1SG2, vol. xiii. p. 2S. commonly results from chronic inflammation, and increased! pressure from habitual coughing. The other conditions already mentioned are usually present when the dilatation is extreme. Corrigan, who first drew attention to this point, suggested that the contracting pulmonary tissue would draw aside the walls of the bronchial tubes, and thus enlarge them. It is not quite easy to see I how this should be, but it is certain that the contraction of the lung “tends to produce a vacuum,” that is to say, diminishes the: resistance to atmospheric pressure. This will then act externally, so as to produce falling in of the chest walls, and internally on the respiratory surface, so as to produce dilatation ot all the air cavities.. The conditions are thus the same as lead to emphysema, and will i be further considered under that head. Dr. Wilkes states that the dilatation of the tubes occurs usually in children, that of the air: vesicles or emphysema in adults.* Other conditions favouring • dilatation in the same way are unequal distribution of pneumatic pressure from collapse, or airlessness of one portion of the lung, . and impaired movement from pleuritic adhesions, or other impedi- ments. Tubercle and Scrofulous Products.—Tubercle is sometimes met. with in the main bronchi, accompanying the same affection of the : larynx or trachea in cases of general miliary tuberculosis. There I are then miliary granulations upon the mucous surface. In the smaller tubes the growth appears to be situated rather in the walls. In chronic phthisis also, when tubercles are foimed in the lung, they frequently occur in the walls of bronchial tubes, forming: what has been called by Virchow peribronchitis tuberculosa, ofl which we shall speak again. Granulations may also sometimes : be seen on the mucous surface, accompanied by ulcerations, and, in some casqs, by yellow pasty matter. The latter is, how- ever, believed by Virchow and others to be unconnected wim : tubercle, and to be the product of “scrofulous” bronchitis. We shall return to this subject in speaking of tubercle in the ^It seems clear that ulceration and destruction of the bronchial wall may result from the formation of tubercle, and that this may be one mode of origin of vomicee. Calcareous concretions derived from obsolete scrofulous or tuqer- cular processes, are sometimes met with in the bronchi. >' ha is called “ Bronchial Phthisis,” f.e., caseous or tubercular soften- ing of the bronchial glands in children, has been attributed to - scrofulous or tubercular disease of the bronchi ; but in most cases there is no proof of this. . , , . , * _ Foreign Bodies.—Foreign bodies of the most varied kind may qe found in the bronchial tubes. We need not speak of objects aeci- • dentally introduced into the air tubes which will, as we have s.n . by preference fall into the right bronchus, lood, whether457 DILATATION OF THE BRONCHI. swallowed or vomited, may sometimes pass into the bronchi, as may other contents of the stomach, often recognized by their smell. Blood, derived from haemorrhage in any part of the respiratory tract, in the nose, mouth, or stomach, or from the bursting of an aneurism into any of these parts, may also be found; as well as pus from pulmonary abscesses or vomicae, from empyema, or even from hepatic abscess (the latter stained with bile) and other products of inflammation. Parasites, if they are seen at all, are derived from elsewhere, since they are not in man,'as in some of the lower animals, found in the bronchial tubes.CHAPTER XXXI. THE LUNGS. Haying in tlie foregoing pages considered the diseases of thei respiratory passages, we now arrive at the investigation of the) morbid changes which occur in the lungs themselves; in thoi tissues aiding in the purposes of oxygenation, the ultimate vesicular! terminations of the bronchi and the interlobular tissue. . 1 bronchules, long before their termination, are deprived of their cartilaginous rings; these are reduced to mere flakes before theyj cease altogether, and all trace of them disappears in tubes of less than one-sixth to one-tenth of an inch in diameter. The tracheal muscular fibres, on the other hand, are continued even to the terminal bronchules, but instead of merely filling up the gap in the cartilaginous frame-work, they form a uniform layer encircling the canal, but excessively thin. They may be seen in tubes not more than one-eightieth of an inch in diameter. Annin the muscular layer are very thin longitudinal or elastic fibres; the ciliated epithelium descends into all but the terminal bron- chules. The latter are, however, lined by a simple pavement epithelium, which most observers have traced into the air vesicles also. According to others, there is absolutely no epithelial cover- ing in the air cells; and others, again, have been able to see nothing but nuclei. Without expressing any opinion as to tne structure of a perfectly healthy lung, wo must say that the exist- ence of a continuous epithelium lining the air vesicles of the most varied pathological conditions appears to us incomes a • This epithelium rests upon an extremely delicate basement mem- brane, by which alone it is separated from the very nch an closely knit capillary network. The capillary vessels coyei nea the whole area of the alveolar surface, and when seen m pro . obviously project into the cavity; a fact of some ™portoi» Another point in the anatomy of the lung, which m . 1 forgotten, is the relation of the bronchi to the air cells. ultimate respiratory spaces or loculi are conical space., -A ■ from the smallest bronchial tubes, so that theu’ opening &EMPHYSEMA. 459 than the cavity itself. On the walls of these cavities, which ; have been called infundibula (Rossignol) or intercellular passages ( (lhuney) are situated the air cells, which are hemispherical struc- i .tures, and therefore open very widely into the common infundibular v;space, the septa dividing the alveoli being very shallow. In an earlier stage of development, as seen in the foetal lung, the alveoli . are grouped around the infundibulum like the acini of a racemose gland, so that the whole lung may, in fact, be compared to a : complicated gland. This analogy, though it becomes fainter in the adult structure, is still of much importance, both as regards anatomy and physiology, and must not he forgotten in considering ■the morbid conditions of the air cells. Finally, we must state that the walls and septa of the air cells contain elastic fibres, and also [though in small quantity) ordinary connective tissue. It has also : often been stated that the walls contain smooth muscular fibres, but this point is not clearly established. The anatomical structures .just described, viz., the group of air vesicles and the infundibular .passage, form a pathological as well as a physiological unity; it is, :n fact, the morbid changes of these structures that we shall con- sider in the following chapters. In those changes the epithelium, he blood-vessels, and the connective tissues of the walls may ■severally be involved. EMPHYSEMA. The term emphysema is used in several senses. First as nterlobular emphysema. This consists in effusion of air into the .interstitial or interlobular tissues of the lung, from laceration . >r rupture of the air vesicles or bronchial tubes. This usually i tries rise to a similar affection of the pleura, and may extend to t he subcutaneous tissue of the neck, thorax, and body generally. I.t is well known that a similar condition of the subcutaneous tissue nay arise from laceration of the trachea. These occurrences are lomparatively rare, and not important. Development of gas in he body from putrefaction after death is sometimes called post- mortem emphysema, a condition only mentioned to prevent its Jeing confounded with that of which we have now to speak. VESICULAR EMPHYSEMA. Dr. Baillie, though unable to suggest the means of distinguishing . nis disease before death, was one of the first to show its true nature u the dead body. It consists essentially in a dilatation of a larger * 8maller number of air vesicles, and may he produced by unv ause exerting a great strain upon them. The effect is to diminish he specific gravity of the part affected, so as to render it more i’lioyant than the healthy lung tissue in water; to cause the lung o become less crepitant on compression, giving it a doughy or•1G0 VESICULAR EMPHYSEMA. (St. Bartholomew’s Museum, xiv. 11.) woolly feel, to prevent its collapse on the thorax being opened, and to render it more or less dry and exsanguine. The emphysematous portion, if superficial, projects above the sur- face of the unaffected i part; and large bullae mav be visible on the surface of the lung, from the gradual oblite- ration of the intervesi- cular tissue, allowing i several vesicles to unite. The loss of elasticity in the pulmonary tissue, whether primary or se- condary, prevents the usual collapse of the lung at the period of expiration; the vitiated air is not expelled as it ought to be; and this is one cause of want of oxygen. Another cause of deficient respiration is the diminution of the respiratory surface. As the groups of air cells expand and their partitions become obliterated, and still more when the walls are ruptured, two or more cavities being thrown into one, the area of the inner surface will become less. Minute Changes in Vesicular Emphysema.—The principal change seen in fine sections of the lung in an early stage of emphysema consists in enlargement of the central cavity or infundibulum of the terminal group of air cells, by which the air cells opening into it are removed further from one another, and from the centre. The peculiar appearance thus produced is seen very well in the representation of pneumonia given in Pig. 105. The lung from which the preparation was made, though hepatized, showed, even to the naked eye, enlargement of the air cells. Poliowing this or at the same time, the partitions between the adjoining air cells of the same lobule become lower, the air cells shallower, and finally they all become merged in one cavity. This is evidently a return to the simpler type of lung found in the lower vertebrate, and as has been referred to above, the area of the interior surface becomes less. It will be easily seen how, if the excess of pressure and atrophy of the walls continue, communications will be formed between adjacent air cells (the existence of which normally is doubtful) and between adjacent lobules (which never exist nor- mally). The larger cavities thus formed show in their warn deficiency of elastic fibres, but an excess of connective tissue; and as is stated by some observers, a superabundance of the connective tissue nuclei. The blood-vessels are also found to be scanty, being Eig. 102. Portion of emphysematous lung—the cavities are either formed by simply enlarged air cells, or by the coalescence of groups of cells.VESICULAR EMPHYSEMA. 461 compressed and obliterated by pressure, and it is probably the blocking up of vessels containing blood, which produces the abun- lant pigmentation which the walls of the cavities also show. Form of the Thorax in Emphysema.—The following is the descrip* tion given by Sir W. Jenner:— The thorax is barrel-shaped; the rntero-posterior lateral and vertical diameters are increased; the sternum is arched ; the lower cervical, dorsal, and upper lumbar spine is curved, with the concavity forward; the ribs are too hori- ?ontal; the intercostal spaces are widened, and but little, if at all, lepressed below the level of the ribs; the posterior bulgings on -itker side of the vertebral column are greater than they should re; the costal angle is larger than in health; the diaphragm lattened, and the lower part of the sternum forced forward. ° Varieties of Emphysema.—Emphysema is in most cases confined o certain parts of the lung. The parts most commonly affected ire the anterior borders of the upper lobes on both sides”, and less generally other peripheral parts, as the lower borders of each lobe. This partial emphysema occurs in lungs, of which some part is mpermeable to air through hepatization, compression, infiltration, nduration, or any other cause. Such a condition is in all proba- lility often produced during the last hours of life, or the death rtruggle by the violent efforts of inspiration; and is more often iresent than absent in post-mortem examinations. This variety aas been called acute, vicarious or compensatory emphysema, but he same condition is produced chronically when parts of the lung re from any cause impermeable to air, constituting chronic rcanous emphysema. In both the acute and chronic conditions -rst mentioned it is hard to draw the line between true emphysema nd simple distension of the lung. Chronic Substantive Emphysema.—The condition known as actual r substantive emphysema is produced by chronic processes during ic, and is much more important than that just described. This but very rarely spread over the whole lung ; more generally one wbe only is affected, and especially the peripheral parts of this, reneral emphysema of both lungs is probably quite unknown, or £ feast excessively rare. In all these cases the morbid condition ^•redorninates very much at the parts above mentioned. It is also cten localized at certain spots where there is condensation and Mntraction of the lung, as is often the case at the apex. etn/f or Atrophic Emphysema.—Although atrophy of the walls of 16 ®n’ ce‘^s cannot be regarded as the primary change in ordinary ‘ phjseina, there is a form of tho disease in which this appears to 3 he case. It occurs especially, or even exclusively in old age “ is accompanied by a diminution instead of increase in the sizo°of ,lng. HenceSirW. Jenner distinguishes this form as “ small- ' °fr en?physema.” The lungs collapse very completely when cnest is opened, so much so that in Jenner’s words “ tho weight elung may be sufficient to cause it to fall in like an inflated - -o of wet paper.” The air vesicles are in this form not distendedvesicular emphysema. 462 + “ Med.-Chir. Trans, vol. xxni. p. 37. but by tbe absorption of the partitions several may be thrown into one. The whole solid tissue of the lung is remarkably diminished, and at the same time very deeply pigmented. This condition is described by many authors simply as atrophy of the lung. . Causes of Emphysema.—The credit of offering the first rational explanation of asthma, and its connection with emphysema, is due to Dr. Floyer,* though the priority of the discovery is commonly attributed to Laennec. . . , The explanations which have been given in later times may be considered under two heads. In the first place it has been supposed that if the tissues are altered so as to lose their power of resistance, a normal pressure of air will cause excessive expansion. Mr. Eainey, in one of his interesting papers in the “ Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, ’t Has attempted" to show that fatty degeneration of the walls of the air cells exists in emphysema, and that the over-distension^ is due to the weakening of these structures thus produced. Xo a priori objection can be brought against the reasonableness of this ex- planation. It is, however, opposed by the fact that atrophy and fatty degeneration are not found in early but in later stages of emphysema, and are thus to be regarded rather as a consequence than as a cause of that condition. In the second place it has been held that while the tissues are unchanged excess of pressure on the inner surface of the air vesicles will cause first over-distension, and afterwards atrophy of their walls, with all the other changes met with in emphysematous lungs. This cause is obviously sufncient if it can be shown to exist, and much ingenuity and research have been spent in showing how such an excess of pressure comes to exist in the whole lung or in particular parts of it. Some have supposed the excessive strain to occur during inspiration only, others during expiration. There can be little doubt that it may be produced by both movements. . The first inspiratory theory was that of Laennec. He attri- buted the chief influence to hindrances to the exit of air from the lungs, such as the pressure of mucus in the smaller bronchi, swelling of their mucous membrane, pressure of tumours or enlarged glands on the larger bronchi, &c. In all such cases he thought air would be freely drawn m during inspirabon but being unable to escape would accumulate behind the seat ol obstruction, while every successive inspiratory movement would increase the tension. Such a valve-like action is difficult ot com aSHSSiSSigillSsS aU',taB iS UfUa1’ substance of tbe lungs must appear always inflated.VESICULAR EMPHYSEMA. 463 prehension, because in general a plug that prevents the exit of air is even more likely to prevent its admission. It receives some support from the fact that when blood or other fluid is recently effused into the bronchi something like on emphysematous condi- tion is found, probably because the inspiratory movement sucks the foreign substance further and further in, so as to imprison the residual air. But as Dr. Gairdner has pointed out, the ultimate result of obstruction of bronchi is collapse of the corresponding portion of lung. Another inspiratory theory is that of Dr. Gairdner.* He has shown that emphysema of one part of the lung is always accom- panied by collapse, atrophy, or consolidation of some other part. In a word, one part occupies more than its normal volume while another occupies less. Thus while the chest expands to its normal extent during inspiration, the pressure of the air drawn in will distend those parts into which it enters, so as to compensate for the non-exjiansion of those parts into which it does not enter. In other words, a normal bulk of air being drawn in, if certain parts of the lung are impermeable, the pressure on the remaining permeable parts will be excessive. This explanation is unimpeachable as far as it goes, but it fails to explain the special distribution of emphysema in the lung, and its preponderance along the anterior edges and at the apex. These facts are accounted for on the expiratory theory, first propounded in this country by Sir W. Jenner (in 18o7)t and in Germany by Ziemmsen and Mendelsohn (in 1845). J The chief merit of this theory consists in showing how the uniform pressure of expiration may give rise to unequal tension in different parts of the lung. If any obstacle exists to the passage of air outwards, as in expiratoiy efforts with closed glottis (cough- ing or muscular exertion), the internal pressure in all parts will be increased, but it will only produce excessive expansion where the external resistance of the thoracic walls is least. This will be the case at the apex, where the lung runs out of the thorax, and along the anterior edge, where the elasticity of the costal cartilages and the mobility of' the sternum diminish the power of resistance. Hence these parts will, in excessive respiratory tension, suffer undue expansion. If any part of the lung is impermeable to air, the pressure of expiration will, like that of inspiration, cause excessive tension in those parts to which air has access. Adhesions of the pleura, preventing free movement of the lung, will also <nve rise indirectly to inequality of pressure. Over-distension once pro- duced will not be permanent, unless some changes occur in the distended lung tissue. The first, alteration is doubtless loss of elasticity, owing to which the dilated air spaces are not emptied. * “Brit, and Foreign Medico-Ohirurgical Review,” April, 1853, p 450 1871 Medip0'chiri,r8r- Trans->”1857 ; Reynolds's* * System of Medicine,"'vol. iii. p. 475 t “ Der Meclmnismus del- Respiration und Circulation.” Berlin, 1845.4G4 YESICULAll EMPHYSEMA. f “Med.-Chir. Trans.,” vol. xxiii. p. 37. The second is atrophy, in consequence of which the partitions between neighbouring air spaces give way, and larger cavities are formed by the union of two or more smaller ones. These are the “pei’nianence-securing ” causes of Jenner. Emphysema is usually a secondaiy affection, of which the ante- cedents are bronchitis, hooping-cough, and other diseases pro- ducing dyspnoea. In some cases, however, the emphysema seems to be the original complaint; in others it appears to be hei-editary, and intemperance sometimes has been assigned as a cause. For such cases, if they really exist, as well as for cases of universal emphysema of both lungs, quoted by Waters, the mechanical ex- planation is insufficient, and we must suppose some primaiy alteration in the lung tissue. In horses emphysema is a very common disease, and constitutes the vice termed “ broken wind,” which veterinary surgeons state to be chiefly due to overworking after a full meal of green meat. Veterinary surgeons have observed that it is hereditary in horses,* which tends to confirm the like remark made by Dr. Dudd, Louis, Hasse, and others,! as applied to man. Dilatation of the bronchi is a pathological condition frequently associated with vesicular emphysema, and may be attributed to the same cause. Hypertrophy of the Lung.—There is a consecutive condition of the lungs which may be mistaken for emphysema. Thus, after a long-standing disease of one lung impairing its functions and diminishing its capacity, we find its fellow taking on a vicarious action, and expanding so much as to displace adjoining viscera : a point of importance in forming diagnoses of diseased states of the thoracic contents. On opening this side of the thorax the lung may appear too large for its cavity, and induce the assumption of an emjihysematous condition. The history of the case, the examination of the lung, and the shrunken, contracted, bound- down, and atrophied condition of its fellow, will determine the real nature of the case. Whether in this instance there is an actual new foimation of pulmonary vesicles, it is difficult to ascertain; Kokitansky is of opinion that such an hypertrophy of the lxings is due to a dilatation of the air-cells, with a simultaneous augmenta- tion of their tissues ; that it does not consist in an increase in the number of the air cells, but in their dilatation, the increased thick- ness of their walls, the enlarged calibre of their walls, and in the development of their vessels. There can be no doubt theoretically that the changes that take place must tend to inci’ease the powers of aeration of one portion of the breathing apparatus; but au increased thickness in the walls of the air vesicles can scarcely facilitate oxygenation, unless it is by a reduplication of the basement mem- brane into the breathing cavity, so as to afford a larger surface mr the capillaries to ramify upon. The special circumstances under which the secondary enlargement and contraction of the lungs take * See Mr. Youatt’s work on the “ Horse: ” art. “Broken Wind.”ATELECTASIS PULMONTJM. II U 4G5 place, will be a subject for further consideration at a subsequent page, when we come to discuss the pathological states of the pleura. ATELECTASIS PULMONTJM. Diametrically opposed to the condition which we have just con- sidered, is one which is peculiar to early life, and frequently has been confounded with the results of pneumonia. It consists in the permanence of the foetal condition of the lungs; the vesicular structure either not being properly developed, or the infant not possessing sufficient force to expand the thorax, and cause the dila- tation of the breathing apparatus. It was first observed, and duly described under the name of atelectasis pulmonum,* by Professor Jorg , t who found that it occurred chiefly in full-grown infants of very feeble powers, or in such as had been born prematurely, and were, therefore, not in a condition to dispense with the pla- cental circulation. The inferior portions of the lungs are most liable to present this state ; it occurs in patches, which offer a dark- ened colour, do not crepitate on compression, and present a smooth surface on section. The affected part sinks in water. The part or lobule that has not undergone the due expansion, is below the level of the surrounding dilated lung tissue. Atelectasis is not necessarily ’ latal, it is probable that m many instances it is entirely overcome, as the child acqmres vigour, or that while a few lobules remain in a permanently contracted state, the remainder of the lung suffices ni!<■ l-lr.p 11 lpos®® ot aeration. We frequently, in adults, meet with puckenngs of the surface of the lung without any trace of inflam- ,1 ion, vhicli may perhaps be set down to this congenital state of the tissues ; or possibly the small nodules of fibroid or calcareous W often bnd equally without appreciable recent * WhliCh theJ COUld be reforred> may be due to the same ™ them to faY0Ur P^'ts in which there is an arrest development Dr. West observes, that if air be blown into a some lobules of which are not duly expanded, it will per- meate the collapsed air-tubes ; the pulmonary vesicles will by de- ft"'* become distended, and the solid lobules rise to a level with me rest of the lung, acquiring the same colour and consistence, and, hke other parts of the organ, will float in water. A sin°le nutation, however, is by no means sufficient to render this chaneo Eenenti;f{!Uti trhe1 moment the tube is withdrawn the air wfll fUd t|le lobules recently distended will again collapse and K I1*'; rest ot' tho lur‘g; their colour, too, will become ark, though less so than before. In conjunction with imperfect amlTk810!11 ° thT hm". tissue, we invariably find the foramen ovale the ductus Bctalli still open. The pathology of the affection, r “I“TeXfcimperfect; eiraon, expansion. n-1 ”e ITilmonum Vitio Organico,” Ac. Libs if«M ■ ..... , Oehornen Kmde.” Grirnma, 1835. P ’ Dlc Fl,t,,s’unge imATELECTASIS PULM0XU1I. 466 ■which we have attributed mainly to a mechanical defect, has been explained by French writers, who have termed it carnification, as the result of pneumonia; but although pneumonia may supervene in an atelectatic lung, the characters of the two diseases are suffi- ciently distinct to be discriminated on a careful examination. Acquired Atelectasis or Collapse,—Another form of atelectasis, which Bailly and Legendre first pointed out, and which has been well illustrated by Dr. West, is that which occurs after respiration has once been fairly established, and is the result of an interference with the mechanism of respiration. It is this form more particularly which Yalleix, and Rilliet and Barthez, under the term of cannii- cation, have attributed to lobular pneumonia ; the affection being limited to a single lobule or to a cluster, forming a hard, compact mass, surrounded by the normal tissue. "When the affected part is inflated the vesicles distend, and thus show that there is no inflam- matory effusion. Since this change is commonly found along with lobular pneumonia, and the latter disease is said to become deve- loped more especially in the collapsed portions of lung, the distinc- tion is sometimes difficult. In a child, whose case is related by Dr. West, there was no evidence of disease until the age of nine months, although she had not thriven well, and had become pigeon- breasted. She then lost flesh rapidly, and began to cough without j having had any previous catarrh. Her case seemed to be one ol bronchial phthisis. Four days before death she became suddenly oppressed, and the cough more severe; the dyspnma increased, while the cough became less frequent. A few hours before death the lips were quite livid, she breathed from eighty to eighty-six times a minute; the abdominal muscles acting most violently, but the chest being scarcely at all expanded. No tubercle was t°und in any organ after death, but large portions of both lungs presented the undilated condition, which disappeared entirely on inflation, the bronchi were pale, and contained very little mucus : the light f side of the heart was greatly distended with coagulated blood, which its thin, pale, and flaccid substance had evidently been M467 (EDEMA PULMOXUH. gives rise to a condition analogous to infantile atelectasis, known a's earnlfication. The collapse of the air-cells is in fact quite as com- plete and the lung equally deprived of air; but as the pressure from being external acts more uniformly, the change extends over huger poitions, and exhibits a gradually increasing condensa- tion. In early stages the carnified portion is purplish, full of blood and tough, but easily inflated from the trachea. Afterwards it becomes bloodless, slate-coloured, very dense, or almost like india- rubber, and is no longer susceptible of inflation. Partial changes of the same kind are also in adults attributed to bronchitis Kesults similar to those of compression may follow from the diminution m the size of the chest consequent on spinal curvature and we meet with an analogous condition in advanced age—the apices of the lungs being converted into a dense melanotic mass, in. which we are unable to trace tubercular deposit, while there is an obliteration of the vesicular structure, and apparently also of the blood-vessels. The tissues present a viscid, tenacious mass, deprived ot all am Under the microscope, we see an almost homogeneous ir^niaD|e’ th*?ugd yduch the carbonaceous deposit is scattered -regularly, with only here and there a trace of the circular fibres vaHnn !!‘g' 1 tlKLCaSr wplch have fallei* under our own obser- vahon, there was a thickened pleura forming a cap over the apex, compression, have contributed much to the remit ST :Jihfher any Pneum°nia had aided in producing the result is doubtful; our impression certainly is against this view |Lnu,ST deposit of carbonaceous matter associated with the i-u f Pleurihc exudation in the confined post-clavicular region of produced^ appeanag ade(luate iu itself to account for the effect (EDEMA PUEMONUM. wPBn!^re. lnvesti,gating the inflammatory conditions of the lungs whirWCrred !i° deyote some consideration to a morbid state y m!et Wlth 111 tlie dead body, and which, since the r!!!?tou °f ,thr'! Profession was first especially directed to it by PulmonumheSTtf Laen,nec’* has beou knowu by the term of (Edema tion of ti", + exists, as its name implies, in a serous infiltra- caus -•« n 6 rntferstitiu-l portion of the pulmonary parenchyma. It has lost ite Sfr i01 the «rgan, which pits more or less on pressure, the i , ^ • tural crepitant sensation, and does not collapse when paUor andX 18 °?ened-1 ^ “^““tous lung is characterized by La,, r d “la’ and when cut mto discharges an abundance of with 1 chaiactenstic. Pulmonary oedema occurs in connection ven-’cor,! dS i r0Su t of’ a 8Teat van°ty of debilitating diseases It «y ommonly supervenes immediately before death; and has been * Da l’Auscultation Mrdiate,’ vol. i. p. 319.468 PULMONARY CONGESTION. attributed to the extinction of the nervous power of the vagi, in consequence of the experiments of Muller, which have shown that the fatal effect of dividing these nerves in the neck is mainly due to the infiltration of the lungs and air-passages with serum. Both lungs are generally affected to the same extent, nor is the oedema necessarily confined to the posterior portions, even where it is only partial. The most rapid and serious form of oedema is that which accompanies general dropsy, especially that caused by disease of the kidneys. A peculiar fact remarked by Hasse is, that where, in general dropsy which proves fatal, the one lung is found univer- sally adherent to the pleura, and the other not, the former is oadematous, and the latter compressed by hydrothorax. Laennec states that pneumonia induces a great proclivity to the production of pulmonary cedema during the period of convalescence ; this may have been partly due to the excessive depletion formerly in vogue, for pulmonary oedema appears to occur- so frequently, and so much in the ratio of the general amentia of the individual, that we see no reason for assuming a special tendency in one disease to produce it. The lax texture of the lungs, like that of the superficial cellular tissue, necessarily favours a serous effusion under such circum- stances. A collateral oedema of the unconsolidated lung often accompanies unilateral pneumonia. PULMONARY CONGESTION. The spongy texture of the lungs, coupled with the fact that these organs contain a larger quantity of blood, in proportion to their size, than any other organ of the body, renders them peculiarly liable to the various forms of congestion—a tendency which is en- hanced by the relation existing between the pulmonary and sys- temic circulation. There are doubtless very intense and possibly fatal forms of congestion which are not recognizable after death. It is within our experience, verified by post-mortem examination, that death may occur with extreme rapidity from congestion alone. Sudden and intense hypersemia was formerly called vascular pul- monary apoplexy, a term now applied to haemorrhagic infarc-tus. Most of the various causes of death, while inducing an arrest of the circulation, give rise to an accumulation of blood in the organs of respiration. Nysten’s experiments have shown that the contractile power of the right side of the heart continues long after the irrita- bility of the left side is extinguished; and the effect of maintaining artificial respiration in cases in which death from a lesion of the nervous powers is to be apprehended, further demonstrates the great share taken by the lungs in the production of death. The elasticity of the arteries also exercises some influence in pro- ducing an engorgement of the lungs, at the moment of, and imme- diately after, death, by propelling their contents into the venous system, and thus overcharging the right side of the heart. Nor469 PULMONARY CONGESTION. must ire forget that, in long standing debilitating disease, whether a specific fever or an adynamic condition, resulting from other dis- organizing processes, respiration is carried on with little vigour while the muscular tone is reduced to a low ebb, so that both Muses conspire to retain the blood in the pulmonary tissues. Hence in estimating the pathological changes in the lungs con- f nec^e^ with the actual disease to which death has been attributed, we must be very careful in distinguishing between the effects of dying and death itself, the secondary products of debility and dis- solution, from the changes attributable to active disease. Both however, often pass imperceptibly into one another, with gradations, which only confirm the view that disease is, in itself, incipient death. And though we may lay down rigid classifications of the modes of dissolution, and we may occasionally meet with types corresponding to our scientific arrangement, still, as Dr. Williams observes, m his “ Principles of Medicine,”—“ In the slower disso- lution by which diseases generally prove fatal, all functions and sauctures are more or less involved, and life in all is dwindled 0" n o so slight a thread, that, when it breaks in one,- others scarcely retain it long enough to enable us to say that death begins distinctly m any part. Whether we can trace the death to asthe- nia or apnoja, coma or paralysis, the prevailing effect is to induce those symptoms to which wo have above alluded, in the lesser cir- OUilltLOll. ?°nge«fn °\ nM°itasis*-The form of congestion RS 7 aUgmv ™latl0n during life, that which is induced of blond *;? m‘medlately Preceding death, and the accumulation inrl- \ e?am parts 0f, the lunSs aftel’ death, are practically mdistmgmshable, and are denoted by the common name of hypo- Srirr rT6^1011' Th‘S conSestion is most liable to affect the pos- m? h-^dfmfeia°r P°rt1™9 £ lungS ; after death, as in debility tS ° a’0m dlsease: the bl°°d follows the physical law of gravi- onconii811?8 t0 l0TSt P°lnt can gain. K thereto no ^ the congested portion presents aot,,k red colorir, and, though firmer than the more bloodless The nnlF Part’ S,U11 T°pitatea under the Soger, and floats in water. cum>? edr I8,a i° uniform, and the line of definition between the niSed and tbe non-congested portion is tolerably clear. The l 10 fenS°r?ed P°rtion Presents a corresponding Poims TVWhi‘Chif U?-l‘meS11S m01’e-0r less circumscribed at single P I'10 depth of the colour varies somewhat in different dis- S Very ::rmlC cases> esP°cially in those associated ii geneial dropsy, there is more or less serous effusion with tho sangumeous congestion. The extent to which hypostatic Tonies «ince°deUath de+pend8 P^tly- on the time ^hichhas elapsed «tatirm^r;i;^rratcs)=sediment’or a s“kins to the bott°m- ^ hyP0-470 1'ULMONAIIY CONGESTION. uncoagulated is free to obey the laws of gravitation. In a medico- legal point of view, congestion of the lungs may become a question of life and death; thus, in the trial of Mr. Kirwan, in Dublin, the conclusion that his wife’s death was due to violence, which has since been shown to be erroneous by the highest authority in medical jurisprudence in this country, Dr. Taylor,* was based mainly upon the fact of the lungs being congested posteriorly. This was the main fact upon which the medical witness, Dr. Hat- chett, relied, in proof of death having been brought about by drowning; we know that it may be the result of post-mortem changes,”and, as Dr. Taylor observes, “ it is not of the least value as medical evidence of drowning, unless observed soon after death, and unless attended with other appearances, which, upon the as- sumption of death by drowning, or by some other form of asphyxia, ought always to accompany it.” It is doubtful whether there are any means of determining whether hypostatic congestion has occurred after death or within a few days of dissolution. We know that in full vigour the blood is not disobedient to the laws of gravitation, as we may easily ascertain by allowing our arm to hang down and then raising it into a vertical position, or by elevating our feet above our head; therefore it is not surprising that, in the recumbent position, as the powers of life fail, the blood should gravitate to the posterior por- tion of the lungs. If the congestion is confined to one lung, or to the anterior parts of the lung, we may7 safely7 attribute it to moibid processes; and if there are any other traces of inflammatory action, to which we shall advert further on, we may equally set down the congestion to a pathological cause. In the words of Forster, the post-mortem appearances can only- in such cases be rightly understood by a knowledge of the physical signs of disease detected during life. . Hypostatic congestion is closely allied to the disease which has been termed “pneumonie des agonisans,” by Laennec, and has been fully described by Mr. Erichsen t as the congestive pneumonia to which the majority of deaths following capital operations are due. It may also, if it exist long, be of course a cause of inflammation, and may thus pass into the hypostatic pneumonia, so frequent in adynamic diseases, such as enteric fever. , Chronic Pulmonary Congestion.—When any obstacle occurs tot e passage of blood through the left side of the heart, whether troni obstruction of the auriculo-ventricular orifice, incompetence ot e mitral valve, feebleness of contraction of the muscular substance, or more remotely, obstruction or regurgitation at the aortic vaves, in all these cases tho lungs will be chronically over full ot ) o and its capillaries exposed to undue pressure. The changes pro- duced in the lungs by these conditions when they become chronic are very important, but though they have received various names * “ Dublin Quarterly Journal,” Feb. 1853. + “ Medico*Chirurgical Trans.,” vol. xxvi. d. ™ .PULMONARY HAEMORRHAGE. 471 as splenization and brown induration, they are not always clearly distinguished. In early stages we find the lungs bulky and heavy, the substance deep red from vascular fulness, dense, containing little air, and more or less indurated, tough and difficult to tear. In this condi- tion the term splenization has especially been applied; * but this word has been used in so many senses that it is perhaps better avoided. In the later stages of cardiac congestion of the lung, the induration and toughness notably increase; the colour is rather rusty brown, or more rarely slaty, as may be seen when the blood in the vessels is washed away. Much brown or dirty serum may often be squeezed out. J This is the condition described by the German pathologists as brown induration. The histology of this condition is very interesting. On making a thm section from a hardened specimen, it is at once obvious that the air cells are unusually small in diameter. This diminution mignt naturally be ascribed to thickening or hypertrophy of the walls, but (as admirably shown by Rindfleisch)it really depends upon the projection into the cavity of the immensely distended pulmo- nary capillaries. At the same time the air vesicles contain numerous catarrhal cells, some epithelial in shape, but most resembling leucocytes or mucus corpuscles. All these are very highly charged with pigment, and the same is found in considerable quantity in the alveolar walls. It is impossible to deny, at least in the later stages the simultaneous occurrence of fibrous hypertrophy, and it as lately been shown that there is an increase in the number of smooth muscle fibres. These anatomical changes suggest at once two factors in the dyspnoea of cardiac disease. In the first place the air cells being diminished in size, the respiratory surface is a so (hmimshed; and, m the second place, the capillaries will be Mled rather with arterial than with venous blood; the former being IS sulted for the functions of the lung, as the latter for the nourishment of the tissues. PULMONARY HAEMORRHAGE. .Diffuse hemorrhage into the parenchyma of the lung may it is probable, sometimes occur simply in consequence of extreme as.m. the bypcraemia following on heart disease. zation Tl a fndltl0n °V?tense’ almost black spleni- ^atmn, the additional redness cuused by a little hemorrhage will Mrrk duy dlstl,1Sulsbable. More commonly distinct masses of ktuiorrhage are seen, which will be presently described. Bleeding tiasn, -largsCr V0SSC1, sufficient ,to ca^e laceration of the lun~ tissue, is not very common, and the conditions producing it, except • Wilks : “Lectures on Pathological Anatomy,” 1859, p. 223.472 PULMONARY II2EMORRHAGE. aneurism, are not well understood. To this form, as resembling cerebral apoplexy, the term pulmonary apoplexy might most reasonably be applied, especially as it is usually fatal. The name has, however, by custom been assigned to a different con- dition. Haemorrhage, more or less extensive, also occurs in pulmonary phthisis; of which more will be said in the proper place. The commonest form of haemorrhage is that which occurs in circumscribed masses, and is always associated with disease of the heart, or embolism—viz., the haemorrhagic infarctus, or pulmonary apoplexy. Haemorrhagic Infarctus, or Pulmonary Apoplexy.—Thus form of haemorrhage is distinct from that which occui’s from the bronchial mucous membranes, either owing to an adynamic state of the blood or to active congestion, both in the symptoms it produces during life, as well as in the post-mortem appearances. The seat of pul- monary apoplexy is the parenchyma of the lung, blood being effused into the infundibula and into the air vesicles themselves, Fio. 103. Pulmonary apoplexy, occurring in a man aged fifty-three. There were several apoplectic masses, exhibiting a deep purple, almost black hue, and causing a homogeneous solid appearance of the part affected, as shown in the section. but not usually spreading so far as into the bronchi. The apoplectic spot may be folt before the lung is cut into as a globular or wedge-shaped mass, of greater density than the surrounding tissue, and, if near the surface, its darker colour also attracts attention, while there is usually inflammation and thickening of tho pleural surface over it. On section, we find, if the haemorrhage be recent, a dark red, almost black, homogeneous, circumscribed spot, varying in sizo from a pin’s head to an orange, of the appear- ance and consistency of damson cheese, bounded by tissue, which isPULMONARY HAEMORRHAGE. 473 comparatively healthy, both in colour and consistency. The only interruption to the uniform colo ur that is met with is that caused by the divided bronchules, which are less dark than the surround- ing parts ; the more recent the haemorrhage, the more defined the outline. The breathing capacity of the part is entirely destroyed ; it contains no air, and when scraped, only yields a dark, thick, bloody fluid, in which the microscope detects nothing but blood corpuscles and some pulmonary debris. If the margins of the clot be scraped and examined, we may find exudation corpuscles, varying in size from •j&x. 0f an inch, showing that some inflamma- tion is going on. The most important point to be noticed with respect to these hremorrhagic masses, is that the whole arterial and capillary vascular system of the part is distended with stagnant and coagu- lated blood. The capillaries are in the condition of thrombosis, and the branch of the pulmonary artery distributed to the part is always found also blocked with a clot. This clot usually fills the vessel completely, ends abruptly towards the heart, but may be traced in the other direction into all the smaller branches. The surface is usually white and granular, like that of a clot which has sojourned long in a vessel, and the centre is sometimes crumblin°', decolorized, or even softened. Very often the clot is heterogeneous in its composition, appearing to be made up of masses of different date. There is little doubt that the condition of the hemorrhagic block is connected with the blocking up of the arterial branch ; for, as previously shown (p. 397), the plugging of a terminal artery and distension of the capillaries (which are supplied by regurgitation 10m the veins) cause first great fulness, and ultimately hsemor- lhage. It is only occasionally, and that in cases where a very large arterial branch is stopped up, that gangrene occurs. It has been supposed that in such cases the bronchial artery also is obstructed: but this cannot be proved. While it is generally admitted that the stopping up of the blood current m the artery will produce stagnation and thrombosis in me capillaries, opinions differ as to the immediate cause of the clocking of the artery. Some regard it as a thrombosis, others as an embolism. In support of both views is urged the fact mat coagulation in branches of the pulmonary artery is always accompanied by coagulation elsewhere, either in the heart, espe- cially in the right auricle, or in the veins, or both. It is urged oy the advocates of thrombosis that the same causes which effect coagulation in the heart or in the veins may effect it also in the pulmonary artery. Those who attribute the phenomena to em- ponsm beli°ve that fragments of clot are washed from the ri°-ht srne of the heart, or from some vein, into the pulmonary circulation comfem dme y pl'0babl° tbat m many cases tho two Processes are From what has been said, it is clear that arrest of circulation a part of tho lunS> *rom whatever cause, may produce hiemor-474 PULMONARY HAEMORRHAGE. rhagic infarction. Practically the condition is hardly met with, except in cases of heart disease, where the pulmonary circulation is impeded. Formerly haemorrhage was explained as a simple consequence of excessive pressure; but this does not account for the occurrence of isolated blocks, for their peculiar shape, or for the obstruction of the vessels. Heart disease then appears to act chiefly as a cause predisposing to coagulation of blood in the vessels. Also (if the explanation we have given be correct), by increasing the tension in the pulmonary veins. Changes in Ecemorrhayic Blochs.—A block of pulmonary apoplexy once formed, soon begins to undergo a process of evolution. The central parts become paler, and ultimately white, while at the same time they are drier and more friable. Next softening sets in, and the mass may liquefy into something very like pus in external appearance. No inerease in the number of leucocytes or lymphatic cells is, however, observed, the whitish mass, whether solid or liquefied, showing under the microscope chiefly obscure granular matter and fat, with only scattered corpuscles. These changes are not due to the re-establishment of circulation or to inflammation, but to a sort of necrosis, or “ necrobiotic decay,” as in tubercle. In the outer parts of the block, multiplication of elements and inflammation take place, resulting in the formation of fibrous tissue. Thus a zone of extremely hypersemic substance will be found surrounding the softened and decoloured central parts. At the same time there is always some inflammation of the pleura, usually with formation of false membranes of lymph. Finally, all the central part may be absorbed, and all that remains of the block will be a cicatrix of fibrous tissue, producing a depres- sion on the surface of the lung.CHAPTER XXXII. « PNEUMONIA. Several morbid states have been called by this name, but it more especially belongs to that form of inflammation in which the air- cells are filled with fibrinous exudation and leucocytes. This is the disease distinguished as lobar, croupous, or fibrinous pneumonia. LOBAR PNEUMONIA. This inflammation of the pulmonary tissue is commonly assumed to present three stages, which we may trace in regular succession m the patient, or which we find co-existing at various portions of the lungs in the same dead subject. The first stage, that of con- gestion or engorgement, we have already considered ; its situation, its effect upon the cohesion ot the tissues, the co-existence of other inflammatory changes, and the history of the case must assist us in determining its character, though it is often difficult to be certain riU'e- r^e general effect of acute inflammation in altering the cohesion of the tissues, is a point of considerable importance ; when it particularly affects, as Sir Robert Carswell has pointed out, the uniting connective tissue element, it may thus demonstrate the previous existence of inflammation, though the redness and vascu- R L ?Ve ^appeared, or but faintly mark the degree of alteration which the disease has effected in the process of nutrition. This general law is compatible with the observation that the second 8t!p® pneumonia, or hepatization, is accompanied by a state of solidification; for, as the author named remarks, though the tissues feel harder than natural when compressed, the diminution ot cohesion which has taken place between their anatomical ele- ments, is rendered conspicuous by the facility with which thev are penetrated, broken down, or crushed. In doubtful cases the microscope would aid us by determinimr the presence or absence, in the congested portion, of exudation corpusdes, which we find where the naked eye fails in distinguish- ing the existence of inflammation. The confines of the first and476 LOBAR PNEUMONIA. second stages merge into one another, and are often difficult to de- fine. In the second, the stasis of the blood becomes more marked, the specific gravity of the pulmonary tissue increases, the over- charged vessels relieve themselves by fibrinous exudation, and by slight haemorrhage into the air cells and infundibula; the latter mingling with the bronchial secretions, gives rise to the pathogno- monic rust-coloured expectoration of pneumonia. This stage" has received the name of hepatization, owing to the increased density of the parenchyma causing the affected portion of the lungs to resemble a piece of liver. The colour of the affected part is of a dark red, which is more or less venous or dusky, in proportion to the type of the inflamma- tion ; the crepitant character of the tissue is "fastsdisappearing; the lung, on section, has lost that light, spongy appearance peculiar to it in health, and but little frothy red fluid exudes from it. On the pleural surface, instead of the slate-coloured, marbly hue of the normal state, we find a more uniform, dusky red colour, scarcely broken by the interlobular septa. At this period, as Gendrin first pointed out, repeated washing and continued maceration fail to restore the natural colour of the tissues, which they recover, under such a process, if the redness is due merely to congestion. Before that exudation and general infiltration, have taken place, which constitute the succeeding stage of pneumonia, we find that, on breaking up a portion of hepatized lung, the surface is studded with small pinky granulations, which are identical with the pul- monary granulations of Bayle. This author, and some of his successors, looked upon them as the first stage of tubercular disease ; but, as Andral has satisfactorily shown, they are a product of inflammation, being, in fact, the solid masses contained in the alveoli and terminal air passages. On scraping the cut surface we may sometimes succeed in obtaining pretty accurate casts from the interior of these structures. Though the specific gravity of the hepatized lung is consi- derably increased, the dimensions of the organ are not necessarily augmented; occasionally, however, the organ is shown to be enlarged by the indentations left on its surface by the ribs. The different degrees of congestion of the inflamed portion pro- duce a mottling of the surface ; the congestion itself may be cir- cumscribed with a definite line, or it fades off gradually into the healthy tissue. As the second stage progresses, marbling of a different kind occurs, which is due to the gradual disappearance of the colouring particles of the blood, the absorption of the blood itself, and the substitution of a fibrinous deposit, or pus. We now enter into the third stage of pneumonia, or that of grey hepatiza- tion. The term well denotes the appearance of the affected por- tion ; it is entirely consolidated and deprived of all air, it presents a greyish or greyish-yellow colour, which is only varied by the almost linear remains of the compressed bronchules, and the pig- mentary matter scattered through the lung tissue. The general477 MINUTE CHANGES IN PNEUMONIA. Fig. 104. condensation of the tissues necessarily, also, involves the blood - vessels, and arrests and prevents the circulation ; so that the further changes must be mainly due to extra-vascular metamor- phoses. The parenchyma becomes gradually softer, and the more str;nv-coloured and paler its hue, the more fully the suppuration process is established, and the more friable the tissue becomes. A purulent fluid now exudes on pressure. At the commencement of this stage the air vesicles may be isolated in the shape of grey granulations, of a globular form, Microscopic characters of the contents of an air vesicle in grey hepatizition, consisting of granular matter, pus cor- puscles, exudation cells, and cylindrical epithelium. containing an opaque granular matter. The microscopic charac- ters of grey hepatization at this period have erroneously been stated to be those of suppura- tion only; but true pus cells are by no means the predominant forms seen. . When the third stage of pneumonia advances to a fusion of the inter-vesicular septa, and an entire breaking down of the tissues, all trace of the normal structures disappears, and we only find a Confused mass of pulmonary debris, pus, and ichorous sanies. We then have to deal with genuine pulmonary abscess; but this mode ot termination must be regarded as decidedly exceptional. MINUTE CHANGES IN PNEUMONIA. If fine sections be made from a portion of lung in the stage o red hepatization, which has been subjected to appropriate har- dening processes, we find an appearance like that represented in -rig. -05. The capillaries are gorged with blood, the epithelium unaltered, the cavity of the air cells partially filled with a mass made up of fine fibrinous threads and a variable number of “ exu- dation cells ” or leucocytes, with a few red blood corpuscles. The nbimous mass, though not in contact with the alveolar wall, is nevertheless attached to it by fibrinous prolongations, which pass out into neighbouring alveoli. The fibrinous threads are notably nne and transparent. This appearance is only seen when the nepatization is very recent, and we do not often obtain specimens just in this stage.* There is no evidence in this stage of any new formation of cells ttl° lung- I he masses which choke up the air cells seem to bo '■r’th"fr,omi 'rhi7h Fitr- W5 was “Pied there was some abnormal dilatation the wX ’ 1 aP< tXaegCrutCS tl,e spai'° between the exudation masfand478 MINUTE CHANGES IN PNEUMONIA. composed of some coagu.lu.ble material effused from the vessels, which forms the fibrinous network, and elements which also come Fio. 105. Two alveoli of a lung in the first stage of pneumonia. The larger is somewhat abnormally dilated. Translucent masses of fibrin entangling numerous corpuscles are seen in the middle. The walls are unaltered, except that the capillaries are gorged with blood. from tho blood. The presence of some red corpuscles explains the well-known rusty colour of the sputa in pneumonia. Pig. 106. Alveolus from seenud stage of pneumonia. Tlic opaque mass in the centre «• unattached to the walls, and is surrounded by epithelial cells with other corpuscles. Similar epithelial cells arc seen in large numbers covering the capillary wall.479 DISTRIBUTION OP PNEUMONIA. At a later stage (Fig. 100), when the lung is already grey and granular, the appearance is somewhat different. We then <*et a much more opaque mass in the centre of the alveolus, with a more rounded outline, and surrounded by a large number of cells of irregular form, and apparently more or less flat and epithelial in character. Similar cells are seen covering very thickly the walls themselves, ihe capillaries in this stage appear generally empty after death, a tact which explains the grey colour of the lun°', though it is not easy to conceive of them as other than very full during life. The opacity of the exudation mass shows that changes are going on m it probably in part fatty degeneration—and °its rounded shape shows that it is becoming'detached from the wall on all sides, a difference which accounts for the granular appear- ance of this stage of pneumonia, and the ease with which the rough casts already mentioned are obtained. Furthermore the abundant production of new cells of epithelial character shows one source of the new elements of pneumonia, and probably one factor in the loosening of the exudation mass from the walls. (This alveolar waU”^ by Eindfleisdl “ catarrhal desquamation of the • * later stage> Y^n resolution is fairly in progress, the mass is stiff more granular and indistinct, while the number of new ceils is immensely increased, and these are more “ indifferent” in character, without the pronounced epithelial form. This consti- tutes purulent infiltration,” and is the process which fits the masses contained in the air cells for expectoration. there are diversities, as might be expected, in the minute characters of the different varieties of pneumonia. When the msease occurs m the course of typhoid fever, and in other forms of -man 8 °T Pneuraoma, the amount of fibrin is very small, and the alveoli are mainly filled with cells. Sometimes the Inn , arrn?ears t0 b° 111 excess> which S^es great hardness to the tend to tZSir" “ «™ - pnetummia, which DISTRIBUTION OF PNEUMONIA. PoSL^rf Hable idi°patllic Pneumonia are the inferior i 1UT\ T p110 Upper lobes and apices op the with tnb i yr affected with pneumonia, except in connection moniaSfu0' o°U1S state« that he has constantly found pneu- a traceotthnTL° Upperand anterior part of the lungs, without he luvs if ? llSGaS0 uxlsting posteriorly, to be tuberculous; and kad to it 1 a : hat tins localization of pneumonia may This i« ,t1n id £mn<TS °f tubo.rcular dlsoase previously undiscovered7 observordiOU ,t0<l iy mrreCt 111 tbe raaln> L,lt as Sir Thomas Watson regardin',, * 18 p,'obably exaggerated; and exceptions to the rule »Ey.ir„nuwr T„st'.r *•»r»»*»«. £ 3 1 01 tubercle. Indeed, the numbers given by Andrul480 DISTRIBUTION OF PNEUMONIA. would almost destroy the validity of the law altogether; for ! though they yield the preponderance to the lower lobes, they seem to show a much greater proclivity in the upper than they are commonly supposed to possess; in eighty-eight cases of pneumonia, he found it limited to the lower lobes in forty- seven ; in thirty the upper lobes, and in eleven the entire organ was inflamed. The general tendency of pneumonia is to spread from below I upwards, and for this reason we commonly meet with the several stages in the same lung; the base to a greater or less extent pre- senting the grey hepatization—red hepatization affecting the 1 adjoining portion next above the former—while the upper lobe I offers more or less pneumonic congestion. The smaller bronchi of | the affected part are not, as has been stated by several authors, I invariably affected at the same time; we often see them meander- h ing, as white rivulets, through the inflammatory mass; and they §j occasionally appear to possess a repellent power, and to form a I line of demarcation between two parts that are unequally affected. I A cui’ious exception is mentioned by Bokitansky, in which, owing i to bygone pleuritic effusion, the base of the right lung had not | recovered its pristine elasticity, and where the entire lung was in a state of red hepatization, with the exception of the apex, the anterior margin, and the base, which latter is scarcely ever found. exempt. It "is equally exceptional to find pneumonia limited to _ the central portion of the lungs, though such cases undoubtedly : occur ; hence one of the most ordinary complications of the disease is with pleurisy; for which reason some authors prefer the com- • pound term pleuro-pneumonia, to the separate names pleuritisf and pneumonia. According to the unanimous testimony of all observers, the right": lung is more frequently affected than the left, while double pneu--i monia is less often met with than either; the analysis of 210 j cases of pneumonia by Andral* yielded the following results The right lung alone was the seat in 121 The left in Both together in ... . 25 The seat undetermined in Total 210 The relation is somewhat, though not essentially, altered by the- larger numbers collected by Sir John Forbes; he finds that m. 1,131 cases— The right lung was affected in The left in And both together in . . . 502 333 236 Total 1.131 * “ Clinique Medicate/' vol. iii. P- 4«0.481 Pleural surface of a portion of spleniiiet} lung-, affected with typhoid pneumonia, from a female aged twenty-live, who died of typhoid fever. The lung closely resembled the spleen in consistency, was of a brownish red hue, interspersed with deep purple spots of an apoplectic character. FOP,MS OF PXEUMOXIA. Tho varieties of pneumonia which are spoken of by authors as differing from ordinary acute pneumonia, are all characterized’ by presenting a more asthenic and less acute type, than the ordinary form which we have just dis- cussed. The hypostatic pneu- Fig. 107. monia of Piorry, typhoid pneumonia, congestive pneu- monia the bilious and the erysipelatous form of Riverius and older writers, the senile pneumonia described by Hourmaim and Dechambre, are all forms of asthenic pneumonia, occurring in sub- jects debilitated by other ■ diseases, in whom the lungs are attacked by a low, insi- dious form of inflammation. The congestion is of a more venous character, causing a dnskv brownish violet tint; the physical law of gravita- : tion exerts a strong influence upon the blood in the thorax, and the posterior portions are predo- minantly affected ; the tissues are more friable and lacerable even J J? staoes> aud in the progress of the disease we fail to find - that evidence of plastic inflammation which accompanies ordinary J sthenic pneumonia. Much yet remains to be done with regard to . determining the actual morbific agent in many of the forms of dis- ease with which we have to deal; and when we shall have arrived at ■ a correct appreciation of the constitutional tendencies, which induce tne palpable manifestations of inflammatory action, we may hope to reconcile theory and practice more fully than has yet been done ; - we may then also explain why such various modes of treatment - are successful in combating symptoms, which to our short-sighted yision indicate the same disease, though in reality they are clue to ■ totally different causes. Thus pneumonia, occurring in a system ’-ii which there is a predominance of lactic or lithic acid, would necessarily demand different remedies from one in which an alka- nne or septic principle prevails. kth (f0S<a<‘C f>nmmonia —But to return to our legitimate sphere- ne hypostatic form of pneumonia occurs in a variety of dis- eases in which the patient is confined to the recumbent posture arid m which the system is much debilitated. Under tho name of congestive pneumonia, it has boen described by Mr. Erichsen as the most fertde source of the fatal issue of capital operations, after i iPOEMS OF PNEUMONIA. 482 the patient has survived the first shock, and therefore calls for the special attention of the operating surgeon. In this form the congestion is by far the most prominent | symptom; and though enough of vitality remains to give rise to I some active symptoms, yet the debility of the patient, and of the j organs of respiration, is so great as to prevent a reaction of a vigorous character. Mr. Erichsen* has analyzed sixty-two post- mortems of individuals who died after operations, and has set I down as pneumonic only those cases in which either one lung I alone was affected, or else in which some other palpable sign of I inflammatory action was manifested in the cavity of the thorax, I beyond a merely congested or softened condition of these organs, i such as solidification of their tissue, whether hepatization or spieni- I fication of it, the effusion of recent lymph or serum into the pleural I sacs, or marked evidences of inflammation of' the bronchial mucous I membrane. The result of his analysis is as follows . there were I twenty-eight in which there were evident signs of pneumonia, 1 eleven in which the lungs presented the characters common to the I first stage of pneumonia and passive congestion; nine where the j lungs were diseased, but neither inflamed nor congested, and. fourteen in which these organs were healthy, though manymav' have presented cadaveric congestion. A fact connected with this form of pneumonia, and pointed out by Mr. Erichsen, is, that while in ordinary sthenic pneumonia the right lung is most fre- quently affected, the left next, and lastly, both organs conjointly,. here the two lungs are most frequently affected together. In the twenty-eight cases in which pneumonia was traced, the light .ang alone was affected three times, the left lung alone also three times; . and both lungs together, though not to the same degree, m twenty- two cases. . . ,,-,11 Typhoid Pneumonia.—In the pneumonia accompanying typhoid 1 fever, congestion is equally a predominant symptom, and requires- the more to be carefully watched duiing life, as the insensibility of the patient and the general torpor of the nervous system allow it to run its course without producing (in many cases) any symptoms- of inflammatory action beyond those obtained by the stethoscope. Cough, expectoration, and dyspnoea may be absent, while we find ex- tensive crepitation over a large extent of surface. In addition o i post-mortem appearances already detailed, we find the nffecitu pa . very soft, and the product is of a chiefly cellular character, vytliout muchfibrin, while there is no definite limitation to the disease.^ some cases of atypic pneumonia, where we have reason ,o susp®c an arrested secretion of bile in the liver, we find a genuine j. dice of other viscera, and then the frothy juice exuding ron cut surface of the pneumonic lung may present a yellow tinge.* which has probably given rise to the term of bdious pneumonia^ Senile Pneumonia.— Again, in senile pneumonia,! the followim • “ Mcdico-Giirurg?. Transact.,” vol. *xyi. P- 29. + Hasse’s “ Pathological Anatomy, p. 22‘J.LOBULAR OR CATARRHAL PNEUMONIA. 483 varieties are described as belonging to the second stage; the Inn- °UZT°,\aTrS perfbctl-v smo°tb and homogeneouf, dischaS a reddish, ftothless serum, the inflammation occurring in patches'3 which are elastic, or soft; or, if granulations are present thevare much laigei than in younger individuals. In the third sta»e ha«been occasionally observed by Hourmann °and Dechambre, which Hasse confirms • it consist i' i . matter being sharply defined in spots of from one to two^mesTn diameter, which prove to be the irregularly dilated air cells I|»*d to individual lotaS* IcX” °d Z&f,? “ tS Wh,Ct ” “ f“‘ “ P— LOBULAR OR CATARRHAL PNEUMONIA-BRONCHO-PNEUMONIA. another which ^Ifbns^b'oth In'ft wP +J'ust desci'ihed, there is morbid changes of which if f & lstrihution, ln the sequence of which it occuffmost fWoL tK ? P&rt’ ln the tilQe of life at cal characters. Inflammation3 of1!] 1 p°lSome, ®xtent m its anatomi- se have said, into the lun- pare^™-^ 'SL^ ex+teuds’ as I especially rare in adults • biiHrfS ! aDd t lls extension is lu such 'cases bronchitl’ maVkacl toThe ** TY UMom.mon- are now considering which at nil p-b-o f ■ nVd Pneumoma we single lobules or groups of iobulel l f S f ihe first.place> ^cts • affection appears to consist „ ’ T3^ad °f an entire lobe. The epithelium of an iXl/afo^ f ^ exten,slon to the alveolar affecting fL0 L, inflammatory process similar to that alreadv SSLS8 SeltZThZ^ce; heuce the airTCells with products^ b^feS^lST °f of whiih is notUal4avsPSsoSw'1, y patcPes>condition the whole lobe in lobar pneumom distinguished from that of tendency to ClXTI aS^W8,,^°WflTer* a ^eater the ramified arrangement of the form,' i '1Hm m", or sometimes yellowish m^SuT otarlv m™ » “KTl ““ fMptas •Sw SSS ssssa**-* «**»* , —wio anatomipnI PhiC^^.UlU.\'lal,'11Gt'> which 1 ho484 LOBULAR OR CATARRHAL PNEUMONIA. with a single terminal bronchial tube are simultaneously affected. The shape of a terminal bronchial tube, with its groups of air cells, is roughly like a bunch of grapes, or more closely like a racemose gland. This form is shown when a lung is only imperfectly ex- , panded, either by incomplete respiration or by artificial inflation. It is also seen in artificial casts of the internal cavities, and is equally marked out by the disease we are now considering. When we see this typical arrangement of morbid change in a lung, we know that the disease is one which owes its distribution to the arrangement of the air passages, not to that of the blood or lymphatic vessels. It is, in fact, broncho-pneumonia; and this arrangement belongs both to the broncho-pneumonia we are now considering, and to the more serious form of it which constitutes one of the varieties of phthisis. In more advanced stages of either disease, when the small masses become confluent, this appearance is ; quite lost. It often happens that either the part of the lung in which these masses occur, or else a closely contiguous portion, is in a state of collapse. This condition is, as we have said often, a consequence of obstruction of the air tubes by bronchitis ; and such collapsed. portions of lung appear very prone to pass into a catarrhal inflam- mation, so that transitional stages may be found between the two. The process of consolidation, though at first affecting single lobules ■: or small portions, may soon spread over a large part or the whole ■ of a lobe. The consolidated portions are pale and often of a pinkish colour, entirely airless and singularly dry, without showing : precisely the granular appearance of lobar pneumonia. As the disease extends these portions become intermingled with healthy lung tissue in such a way as to produce a mottled or marbled. condition. When the consolidation spreads over a whole lobe or over both lobes, it may be difficult to distinguish from ordinary fibrinous- lobar pneumonia, unless some portions remain in a less advanced I condition. . I, In general, as we have stated, inflammation of the bronchi precedes this form of pneumonia, and the signs of this will accord- - mgly be found along with those of alveolar inflammation. But it' may happen that the bronchitis has passed away at the time of death, or even (according to Bindfleisch) it may be absent from the first. . Histology of Catarrhal Pneumonia.—The inflammatory process^ in the air cells which characterizes this disease is not only propagated from the mucous surface of the bronchial tubes, bin also resembles it in character. Hence we do not find the florin- i ous masses entangling corpuscles which occupy the air space? in fibrinous or croupous pneumonia, but cells which are believed! to be the result of a catarrhal inflammation of the alveolar epithelium, and have, in early stages, a more or less epithelia cnaractcr. This character is, indeed, not recognizable in later485 ABSCESS. stages'when the new-formed cells present the uniform or “indif- ferent” character of inflammatory cells in general. In general no fibrin is to be seen, but, nevertheless, in a considerable number of cases of broncho-pneumonia some air cells at least will show some fibrinous threads among the inflammatory cells. The process may be very well traced in those parts of a phthisical lung where the morbid change is just beginning (see Fig. 110 d). Here we see large flat cells detached from the walls and lyin°- free in the cavity mixed with other products of inflammation. (In the specimen figured, blood corpuscles are seen, but these have no relation to the catarrhal condition, but are a sign of phthisis.) This appearance is very rarely met with, and in general we find the air cells occupied with indifferent roundish corpuscles like those produced m inflammation of the bronchi. This fact has led some observers (as Buhl) to deny altogether the existence of a catarrhal inflammation of the alveoli, and to speak of these cells as the results of bronchial inflammation drawn into the air vesicles during inspiration. The gradual consolidation of the lung tissue they believe to be due to filling up with bronchial products. We must admit that the histology of ordinary cases of broncho- pneumonia shows nothing to contradict this view. Consequences of Catarrhal Pneumonia— This form of pneumonia is particularly fatal in childhood, and that description which often suc- ceeds measles has acquired an especially ill- omened reputation. The total result in many cases depends on the gradual obstruction of tfie air cells by products which the expiratory efforts cannot remove, and is accelerated by the addition of collapse. But in 0vcases inflammation runs on into a destructive process in which masses of consolidated lung tissue soften and form cavities m tact a kmd of phthisis. This constitutes what has been called scrofulous pneumonia, or caseous pneumonia, or formerly tuber- cular infiltration, and often produces the clinical symptoms of galloping consumption.” ABSCESS. "W e have already seen that the formation of abscesses, such as we meet with in other organs and on the surface of the body is a rare_ event in the lungs, notwithstanding the frequency with which inflammation attacks them. Yet a suppurative destruction ot the tissue occasionally leads to this result, and we then find a cavity varying in size from that of a marble to that of an entire ohe, and presenting ragged parietes; it contains pulmonary debris and pus, which partially infiltrate the adjoining tissues as there is no lining membrane; or the abscess may have dis ’ charged its contents, and we then only meot with the irregular excavations with jagged walls. Formerly the frequency ofgpul- kno^ fblceslwas ordered to be much greater than we now Know it to be, because tubercular cavities were confounded withSECONDARY OR PYvEMTC ABSCESSES. 4St> this lesion. Now that the nature of both affections is better under- stood, the error is less likely to arise; when we are in doubt, the history of the case, the situation of the abscess, the condition of the surrounding parts, the presence or absence of tubercular deposits in the lungs, are points that will aid us in establishing a correct opinion. It should, however, he remembered, that the distinction is, in fact, not always clear, but that abscess resulting from inflamma- tion may, if it continue to extend by a species of ulceration, con- stitute, in fact, one of the forms of phthisis. When this is not the case, healing takes place by the gradual formation of a capsule of connective tissue round the abscess and its cicatrization. The pus is either completely absorbed, or else remains incapsulated as a yellow caseous mass which may become calcified. This is, accordingly, one source of the wasted cicatricial nodules which have been erroneously regarded as always due to obsolete tuber- cular disease. Another occasional result of pulmonary abscess is gangrene; and more rarely the pus opens into the pleura, pro- ducing empyema. The form of abscess just described must be carefully distin- guished from the multiple or metastatic abscesses which occur in pyaemia, and the distinction is in general not difficult. SECONDARY OR PYYDtlC ABSCESSES. These abscesses are called secondary, because they are invariably dependent upon some antecedent suppuration or other form of inflammation at a distance from the lungs. They have also been called metastatic, from the erroneous belief that pus was absorbed and removed from one part of the body to be deposited in another. For the same reason, they have been called secondary deposits. By some writers they have been described as a form of lobular pneu- monia, and may be called simply multiple abscesses. The appearances by which we recognize these abscesses when in a mature condition are, spots of yellow pus, varying in size from a pin’s head to a walnut, generally situated near the surface of the organ and surrounded by a defined patch of deeply-congested tissue, which may present a colour approaching to black; beyond this, the parenchyma is in a healthy condition, or, at all events, in a state totally distinct from the circumscribed disease. The pleural surface over them is always inflamed. We generally find several of these abscesses in various parts of tho lungs. The pulmonary tissue of the seat of tho abscess may have entirely disappeared, or we may be yet able to squeeze out the pus, so as to show the normal structure. In an earlier stage they bear some resemblance to the haemor- rhagic blocks or infarctus already described, being uniformly dark red and engorged, and the capillaries being, as in such infarctus,SECONDARY OR PYA3MIC ABSCESSES. 487 obstructed; sometimes, though not always, blocks may be found in the larger arterial branches leading to the part. They are often situated near the pleural surface, and, before they are altered by suppuration, may be more or less wedge-shaped; but neither of these characters is constant. The pysemic blocks undergo rapid necrotic change in the centre, as do the haemorrhagic; but they change much more rapidly and soon soften into a puriform liquid. Actual pus is not, however, so constantly produced as would be supposed from the naked eye appearance; the liquefied contents of the ‘ ‘ abscess ’’ consisting chiefly of granular debris, fatty molecules, with a certain number of granular leucocytes and other bodies presently to be mentioned. In later stages, when the inflamma- tion is intense, actual pus is produced. Pysemic abscesses are always associated with an intensely febrile state and other symp- toms characteristic of “pyaemia,” a condition which has already been discussed. The only point necessary to discuss here is the nature of the connection between the original disease and its secondary manifestations in the lungs. It has already been stated that the capillaries, and often arterial branches of these blocks, are stopped up ; and the resemblance between the pysemic blocks and hsemor- rhagic infarctions has been pointed out. There seems every reason to believe that the obstruction of blood-vessels is the starting- point of the process. This obstruction is doubtless due in many cases to the impaction of small fragments of softened blood clot derived from some vein in the part which was the original source of infection; and such clots, are, as we have seen, in many cases found. Sometimes, however, there is no thrombosis of these veins discoverable; and we must still suppose it possible that local coagulation may be caused by the poison (whatever it be) which is contained in the blood in pyaemia. The material con- tamed in the obstructed vessels is described by Dr. Bristowe as a “soft, pulpy, yellowish material,” or else as something more approaching to ordinary coagulum; sometimes also “distinct pus”—that is to say, leucocytes too closely aggregated to be normal blood elements. Now this is precisely what is seen in softening clots from veins. It is not like the result of simple coagulation, being, if fibrine at all, fibrine which “ has under- gone changes requiring time for their production, and often clearly in advance of the changes which have taken place in the patches of diseased tissue.” It has been recently made more than probable that peculiar low organisms (a species of Bacterium) are present in the blood in pysemia, and are either themselves a poison, or the vehicles of poison. The relations of thrombosis and embolism iust toacod will then explain to us, not the origin of this poison, but the manner in which it is carried from the original source of disease to the lungs.488 GANGEENE. The most marked form which septic disease assumes in the lungs is presented in cases of gangrene; it is, as ■ Sir Thomas Watson observes, very seldom the result of acute inflammation, and is almost as uncommon as the formation of true abscess. Its cause is not always clear. Dr. Stokes has published some cases, in all of which the patients had been habitual drunkards; the abuse of spirituous liquors does not, however, seem to exert a uniform influence in its production, for, in chronic alcoholism, as described by Dr. Huss,* this lesion has not been met with. It is also remark- able that ergotism, which has a peculiar tendency to induce super- ficial gangrene, is not accompanied by pulmonary sphacelus. 'The same applies to the analogous disease spedalskhed,f or the Nor- wegian leprosy. It presents two forms, the diffuse and the circumscribed. In the former, the lung tissue that is involved is broken up into shreds, which hang into a cavity filled with a foetid pubila- ginous, discoloured sanies, and through which the bronchi and vessels may yet be traced entire. The gangrenous portion presents a variety of hues, in the different shades of green, brown, and black. The surrounding parenchyma is infiltrated with ill-condi- tioned pus. An entire lobe, or even the greater portion of one lung, is found to be in this condition, though the upper lobe appears to be m.ost prone to the affection. It appears some- times to result from extension of circumscribed gangrene; but sometimes its origin is quite obscure. In circumscribed gangrene, which is more frequent than the former, we find one or more patches, varying in size and of irregular form, scattered through the lungs. There is much less tendency to involve the adjacent parts, and the course of the affection is more chronic than the former. Laennec describes the colour of the mortified portion as black with a greenish tinge—the texture as moister and more com- pact than that of the lung, and its aspect closely corresponding to an eschar, produced upon the cutaneous surface by nitrate of silver. The neighbouring pulmonary tissue is in a state of inflammatory congestion; and, after the sphacelated spot has become detached, a false membrane, of a greyish, dirty yellow colour is formed, which secretes an ill-conditioned pus. At times the membrane is formed even before the entire separation has been effected. If the gangrene involves the pleura, rupture and discharge into the pleural sac may ensue, or otherwise the bronchi may be the chan- nels by which the evacuation is effected. Circumscribed gangrene appears to be always dependent upon obstruction of the arterial branches supplying the part; to be, in * See Dr. Huss's work on the subject: “ Alcoliolismus Chronicus,” &c. Stockholm, * + |)r. DanicUsen and Boeckh, “ Om Spedalskhed,” Ac. Christiania, 1S47.489 CHRONIC PNEUMONIA. ■ fact, one of the terminations of embolic infarction. We do not know why gangrene is not a more frequent result of this affection ; but it appears only to occur when the infarcted portion is con- • - siderable in size, and may perhaps be connected with simultaneous obstruction of the bronchial artery. CHRONIC PNEUMONIA. The existence of chronic pneumonia has been disputed by some authors ; but both at the bedside, as well as in the dead-house, we nuci cases to which no other name can be given, though, in the present state of our knowledge, it is often difficult to define the exact limits of the acute and chronic forms. Another difficulty which has yet to be removed, in regard to this subject is, to deter- rnrne whether chrome pneumonia is essentially different from the destructive pneumonia which we shall describe among the forms o p thisis, and it so, whether there are any marked characters by Vhe uead b°dy-’ There we only have to consider it at present, it can be recognized. dw^]iei^efifeat!U’e ? c^r°nic pneumonia, which we find equally S!P , by alm1f a11 observers, is the hypertrophy of the mter- fom, Iff h • Rokltanlky’ 111 contradistinction to his croupous seranCfformUwEmE’RglVeS tb? Dam° of .interstitial pneumonia to a Xr nVfWi’ bliCb bG/e?ait as ldentical with the chronic form of XiW t l0?1ii ’ as ^or mstance, Andral and Hasse. Rokitansky lobuiX S6 ,laflammatlon a8 commencing between the pulmonary hvnertronV. bf ralle1' gr°UpS of air ceUs- and originating in S £Xd°L pe Connectlve .tls;sue; A similar condition was oeen Xcd filby-?Tgan a!.clrrhosis of the lung, and has also Knnim di.fi, '°ld- degeneration, or induration. The lung is s scon “X diminished in size, and the corresponding contraction s seen m the external wall of the chest. The pleura is o.reatlv ibro.^^bandV11'6^110 ^rlolbar and interlobular septa, so that thick larttnentri J t-ersect-tbe and dlvide R into irregular com- ’ularitv nni T <lr!°l1H size. I he surface shows corresponding irre- ir&s fv Ln° U f- ap?eaf “ce, which suggested the name of a tE LI rtaln Slm?lanty to the appearance of the liver olour iTh° Parenchyma of the lung is of a dark grey ubes are diXClh pig,ment’ and 18 itself indurated. The bronchial nrfarf dlla,ted’ aud sometimes cavities, with smooth internal ace, are formed partly, or wholly, by the enlarged . !,liril,<;'l) ll"K;Ua often very offensive and gangrenous' o hx ‘srn1Iy ‘f°ct8 r ‘“v-'y. »»<i iagesof* tw b"V“ *P,Ph<» to the most advanced490 CHRONIC PNEUMONIA. condition is represented in Pig. 108. The ■walls are seen greatly thickened, and containing pigment granules, while the air cells are filled with large irregular masses resembling mucus corpuscles, but often of abnormal size, as if several were fused together, and also containing pigment. It is not easy to say whether these bodies are produced where they are found, or have entered the air cells from the bronchial tubes. Era. 108. Section of an indurated lung affected with chronic pneumonia, showing the walls of the alveoli very greatly thickened, and the cavities filled with mucous corpuscles and larger masses containing pigment. We do not, however, always find that chronic pneumonia con- sists in changes of this kind. It may, on the other hand, resemble acute lobar pneumonia in having the air cells filled with fibrinous exudation, and the only peculiarity observable in the exudation is the preponderance of tough, opaque granular fibrin and the small number of cells. In other cases we have found a remarkably luxuriant development of epithelial structures, which have quite filled the alveoli. Induration and contraction, however, m the end depend on the formation of a fibroid (now called lymphadenoid tissue) and gradual obliteration or replacement of the pulmonary tissue by it. This tissue is represented in Pig. 109. It varies m different cases in the proportions of the lymphoid cells and inter- cellular substance, but no doubt, with time, the former waste and the latter increases. Precisely the same structure is found in many parts of a phthisical lung. . . ,, „ ,. „ Another result of chronic pneumonia is the formation ot cavities beside and beyond the bronchial dilatations already spoken ot. They are often lined by a very smooth membrane, but this is formed in course of time, and is only a sign that the cavity - existed a long time. Perforation of the pleura, empyema may result. Chronic pneumonia may, on the othercolliers’ phthisis. 491 Em. 109. hand, be the result of empyema when this has opened inwards into the pulmonary tissue. The morbid process just described which includes fibroid indura- tion and the formation of cavities, is evidently closely allied to ordinary phthisis, and has been J often called fibroid phthisis. It differs, however, from tubercular or broncho-pneumonic phthisis in two respects at least. First, in the absence of tubercles and of caseous masses ; secondly, in i usually affecting one lung only, or even one lobe ; while phthisis, 1 properly so called, can only be confined to one lung in its earlier • stages. Some specimens of fibroid and indurated lung, with cavities much like what have just been described, are found on examina- tion to contain tubercles. ,Dr. Williams describes a chro- nic form of pneumonia, in which i the hepatized portion, owing to i the thickening of individual vesi- cles, assumes an oolitic aspect. - He is of opinion that consumption may originate in this species of pneumonia without the pre-exist- ence of any distinct tuberculous bdisease. It is not impossible that . Fibroid or adenoid tissue from an indurated lung-, showing abundant 111 oid corPusclGs and fibrous inter- cellular substance. It much resembles the tissue produced in chronic inflamma- tion ot a lymphatic gland. (See pp. 154 and 418.) LLLclL some of the fibroid contractions of the pulmonary tissue, which we WeS^wrtiCUlarly at the apic6S 0fthe lunSs- may be ^e to an StTon 1 pneT°ma aS Wel1 as t0 Previous pleuritic inflam- lunos which artS110na ly meet Wlth 'depressions in otherwise healthy DtW , V unconnected with emphysema, and for which no S tionP„afntf °U f\v ?fr6d than a Wone inflammato^ mini™ f rth i. lnterstltial tissues of an aplastic character an Williams.1* are als° borne out the authority of Dr. COLLIERS’ PHTHISIS, ANTHRAKOSIS, PIGMENTATION LUNG. OF THE ■' »*'>**“"“*»* fomShrrdithtoths^ Principles of Medicine,” p. 313. London, 1843.492 COLLIEES’ PHTHISIS. disease of this kind is that described as the “ Colliers Phthisis,” or, as it has been called, anthrakosis. The lungs of colliers are often, found after death to be exceedingly full of black pigment, and there is no doubt that this is carbonaceous dust inhaled during life. Objections were at one time made to this conclusion by some German pathologists, but the discovery by Traube in a lung of this kind of a fragment of undoubted black coniferous wood, which must have come from coal, showed the correctness of the opinion always entertained in this country. Beside blackness, the collier s lung shows induration, condensation, and often the formation of cavities. Changes very similar to these are produced in the lungs by the inhalation of various kinds of dust, as oxide of iron, the dust of copper mines, that caused by grinding, stone working, flax dressing, &c., though in these the black colouring is less marked. The characters common to all these cases are summarized by Dr. Green how’ as consisting in thickening of the pleura, increase in the density of the lungs, and formation of patches of consolidation of various sizes in their substance. These nodules varj from a pea to a walnut in size, and are either iron grey or nearly black in colour: all trace of the vesicular structure of the lung is lost in them, but the smaller are formed of the thickened walls of bron- chioles. Even the less altered parts are traversed by bands of connective tissue. The lungs, when cut into, exude more or less of a black fluid, resembling Indian ink, which is most abundant in the lungs of miners. The bronchial glands are also enlarged and black, and yield a similar black fluid. Minute examination shows two principal changes in such lungs, viz., thickening of the alveolar septa, causing in the more altered portions almost complete oblitera- tion of the alveoli; and, secondly, deposition of pigment m small granules or irregular masses through the interstitial connective tissue ; be., in the walls of the air cells, and m linear tracts corre- sponding to the interlobular septa, to the course of vessels and air tubes, and to the subserous connective tissue, t Black pigment is also found in cells, both in mucous corpuscles and m ciliated epithelium. In the cases described by Zenker, where persons were in the habit of inhaling dust of oxide of iron, red pigment was found in corresponding situations. Chemical analysis shows that the black lungs contain a quantity of black matter insoluble in any acids, he., carbon: the lungsot miners contain notable quantities of silica. The disease is then evidently to be described as a chronic destructive pneumonia pro- duced by irritating particles. The presence of excess of carbon m the lungs of stonemasons is, notwithstanding Dr. Greenkows explanations, not quite accounted for; but the Wack pigmeo found in the lungs of all persons after death is clearlv shown to be derived from the' smoke of fire, candles and lamps, which everyone I pSo°nt’ouftl»t Uiese are the stations of the l-T vhich flnk pdi uclcs would naturally tad their way through and out of tin organ.ADVENTITIOUS PRODUCTS IN THE LUNGS. 493 inhales more or less. It is an old observation that this pigment is absent in the lungs of children, and most abundant in those of old people. ADVENTITIOUS PRODUCTS IN THE LUNGS. TUBERCLE. We have already given (p. 193) a definition of a tubercle such as it is found m various organs and parts of the body. Tubercles thus defined occur m the lungs m various pathological conditions, but the term has been applied with greater laxity than in the case of . °/?er orSans- and many objects met with in the lungs to which this name has been given, do not conform to the definition ot a tubercle given above; that is, are not like what are called ; tubercles m other parts of the body. Speaking generally, the name 1 aas .u aPphed to small (that is, not much more than one-eivhth of an inch in diameter) solid bodies, harder and more insistent than the ordinary lung tissue, grey or yellowish in colour. To ; such bodies the term granule or granulation has also been applied but since a very special meaning has been attached to this term also the word nodule appears to be the only one that can be used ' without involving any theoretical explanation. The nodides v'hich have been called tubercles in the lung, are of the following classes:— 1. Grey Miliary Tubercles.-These are tubercles such as they occur (for instance) on the serous membranes, or true tubercles as I°nTen1LSIbd' They ^ oc?ur “mpiy, or else complicated and enlarged by various changes m the surrounding lung’ tissue sme^l 'tT0111 L ‘fptC< 7 m°St commonly occur in large numbers spiead through the whole or great part of one or both lungs: and the most typical examples are found in the disease calledacute I S‘:;ry ^t®™10818’” when they are present in other organs also ■ These are the ‘grey granulations” of Bayle and Louis, and only | y /dent?cal with the grey tubercles of Laennec, which have been often called grey miliary tubercles. fw /J.eri'hr0lic/‘iul Granulations— These are small, hard masses rmed round the smaller bronchi, first clearly distinguished by ■ Virchow from miliary tubercle, though described by Carswell “ fo, '*,W-Pne™™nic Granulations.—The objects which Laennec the most part described under the name of groy tubercle or grey granulation, though ho also included under this term the true cat rZ 'ltb0rC p and th° f0llTrf clrs' Tlley ar<‘ the product of catanhal broncho-pncumoma, to be described hereafter lmt tL f uVe are th° t;laSSeS 0f obJ0cts known as' tubercles for them i°WinS “U S° b° mentloned as kkely to be mistaken 4. Small Syphilitic Nodules.—The characters and history of theseTUBERCLE XX TIIE LUNGS. 494 are not as yet very well known, but they appear to resemble tubercles in many respects. 5. Small Fibroid Granulations of uncertain origin are sometimes found scattered through the lung where the history and absence of accompanying changes forbid the supposition that theyare tubercles. Such granulations are far more common on the pleura and other serous membranes, and those occurring in such situations may be taken as a standard of comparison for the ill-defined nodules in the lung. Grey Miliary Tubercles.—These when met with in an uncompli- cated form (as in acute miliary tuberculosis) are hard, resistent, translucent bodies, projecting on the cut surface of the lung, of a pale grey colour, sometimes yellower and more opaque in the centre. Their shape appears at first sight round, but a low mag- nifying power, or even close examination with the unaided eye, will suffice to show that they are really angular, and that the angles are prolonged into the intervesicular or interstitial structure of the lung. The average size may be estimated as about that of a pin’s head, the extremes varying from the limit of vision to the size of a hemp seed, or J-inch in diameter. If larger than (or perhaps even as large as) this, it is extremely probable that the apparent size of the tubercle is increased by inflammatory or hypertrophic change in the surrounding parts, which we may not be able to detect with the unaided eye. The microscopical examination of these tubercles, especially in sections of the lung containing them, shows that they consist of small cells, sometimes containing nuclei, often not (and in this case undistinguishable from nuclei), generally arranged somewhat concentrically7 round one or more centres. The more external parts usually consist of larger cells, the central parts of smaller, or the latter may even be degenerated and amorphous. Sometimes by tear- ing the structure out with needles larger many-nucleated cells, like ‘1 myeloid ” cells, may be demonstrated. Intercellular substance is less easy to make out than in tubercles from some other parts. Complicated Miliary Tubercle.—The tubercle may, as we have said, give rise to inflammatory or hypertrophic changes in the sur- rounding tissue, and the nature of these will depend upon the dis- position of the organ in which the tubercle occurs. In the lung the changes thus produced are chiefly of two kinds—(1) catarrhal inflammation, (2) hypertrophy of connective tissue, chiefly result- ing, not in the formation of vascular fibrous tissue, but of cytoge- nous or adenoid tissue, which gives the appearance known as fibroid degeneration, or induration. Haemorrhage also frequently occurs, but its precise relation to the production of tubercle is not known; and breaking down, or the formation of cavities, which will be further discussed. In many cases where all or any of these changes accompany7 tubercle, it is impossible to say7 whether they have pre- ceded or followed it. , . . The most important histological fact is that the tubercle is not495 TUBERCLE IN’ THE LUNGS. . usually found within the air cells, but extends along their walls and ; partitions ; and though it may occupy the space of several air cells, : these are flattened or compressed, but not filled up with the new . growth, or their contents may be merely converted into an amor- phous mass. The tubercle is therefore interstitial, but wo regard it as till now quite undetermined whether it is formed in the walls of minute arteries (as in the pia mater), or veins (as in Fig. 110), Fia. no. * Sectlon lung, showing miliary tubercle complicated with inflammatory changes in ' . surrounding parts. em s,*rro11 rxlr-cl by the nucleated tubercular growth, which extends along the aneolar septa, b. Bronchus filled with degenerated (caseous) inflammatory products. / ‘Ty ,1. containing fibrin and other products of inflammation, partly degenerated “e is, “Ufaqnng Wood from recent hmmorrhage, and catarrhal cells. (From an original preparation.) or m the walls of minute bronchi, or in the cavity of lymphatic vessels (Bindfleisch). Another important fact is that the tubercle, ’ when lai'£e enough to he visible to the naked eye, contains no vessels. In an injected specimen (Fig. 45, p. 194), 'it may be seen that these become obliterated on reaching the tubercle. Conditions of Lung in which Miliary Tubercle occurs.—This form of tubercle may occur generally scattered through tho lung or con- hned to one spot. When it is generally distributed, wo may con- clude that all the tubercles were formed at once, or during a short space of time, as the consequence of an acute affection, and tuber- cles of the same age are generally found either on the pleura or in some other organs, as the pia mater, kidneys, peritoneum, &c.—that | is to say, there is acute general tuberculosis. In such cases (as was496 PERI-BRONCIIIAL GRANULATIONS. said before) wo can generally find some trace of previous disease, chiefly of the type of degenerative inflammation, resulting in the formation of caseous matter. But sometimes a simple inflamma- tion seems to he the precursor of tuberculosis, and sometime^ no antecedent disease is dis- coverable. In the lung, however, miliary tuber- cle, though generally distributed, may occur as the sequel of disease in the same organ; a cavity or mass of degene- rated matter being found at one apex (for instance), while one or both lungs are studded with miliary tubercles. The inter- vening tissue is often quite unaltered, some- times extremely hyper- eemic, though crepitant and otherwise natural* and, less frequently, actually pneumonic. This mode of occurrence of miliary tubercle may therefore be an accompaniment of phthisis, but is not neces- sarily so. . On the other hand, the local occurrence of miliary tubercle m the lung is always in combination with some form of phthisis. M e may find scattered tubercles surrounding a large cavity, or im- bedded in masses of grey fibroid tissue, or mingled in various proportions with destructive or indurative change, as will be shown in speaking of the different forms of phthisis. Fig. 111. Miliary tubercle, scattered throughout the pul- monary tissue, forming translucent, greyish, and circular points of the size of pins’ heads. PERI-BRONCHIAL GRANULATIONS. These bodies have very often been mistaken for tubercles in a certain stage of retrogressive change. They are bard dark grey nodules, with a yellowish centre, the latter having often been regarded as a degenerated portion of the tubercle. Close examina- tion, however, shows that this yellow centre is really a perfora- tion, and represents the cross section of a small bronchial tube, the thickened walls of which cut across, with some surrounding con- solidated tissue, constitute the nodule. The hollow of the tube contains either ordinary inflammatory products, mucus, pus. Ac., or more generally the same products which have already under- gone degenerative decay, or caseation. These products may com- pletely fill up the tube. ” More information is in some cases obtained respecting the structure of these objects by cutting open the bron-497 BROXCHO-PNEUlIOiaC GRANULATIONS. cliial tubes, beginning with the larger. It will then be found that there is, even in the larger tubes, bronchitis, and that this most probably appears more intense on. reaching the smaller tubes, while iu some cases the degenerated secretion and inflammatory pro- ducts appear on the inner surface as what was formerly called “yellow tubercle,” or earlier still “ scrofulous matter.” This was admirably represented by Carswell in 1838,* though he was evi- dently wrong in regarding this process as the characteristic one in tubercular disease, or in all forms of phthisis. The thickening and induration of the bronchial wall are chiefly owing to an infiltration with small cells, which are very prone to undergo decay and become granular, so that their structure becomes undistinguishable. . In early stages, however, we believe that this cellular structure is really tubercle, with some accompanying ; hypertrophy, and that the peri-bronchitic granulation may be described as pert- bronchial tubercle. The apparont size of the nodule, as seen with the naked eye, is also partly made up of inflamed and consolidated lung tissue. The only account which can be given of the origin of peri-bron- chial tubercle is, that the inflammation affecting the mucous surface ot the bronchi, which may at first be ordinary bronchitis, extends - to the submucous tissue and the bronchial walls. The inflamma- ' .on ex?ited in these parts is not suppurative, but chronic and indurative, being moreover, as we believe, always accompanied by t the production of tubercles. The whole process may be called chronic peri-bronchitis^ or more specifically, tubercular "peri-bronchitis, t • *■ en_cronchitis is always accompanied by broncho-pneumonia, inflammation spreading to the surrounding air cells, and also to those which are in communication with the bronchial tubes affected. is also very common to find grey induration (production of cytoge- ti°Us °J bbrold tissue) of the surrounding parts, and in general °ae iorms of phthisis in which induration preponderates, are J ?“ose m which peri-bronchitis chiefly occurs. As might be expected, true miliary tubercles _ are also frequently associated with the bronchial granulations. Peri-bronchitis unaccompanied by ^tubercle is, we believe, very rare in the human lung, if, indeed, it ever occurs; but according to Virchow it is a common disease in BRONCIIO-PNEUMONIC GRANULATIONS. °tigm of these nodules is from the catarrhal broncho-pneu- “ which we have already spoken. We only wish here to < -capitulate certain characters belonging to them, some of which X\elt0 their bolnS confounded with tubercles, and others bv lth they 1QaY to distinguished from them. They resemble “lustrations of the Elementary Forms of Disease ’> K K498 BRONCHO-PNEUMONIC GRANULATIONS. tubercles in being bard, resistent, grey, and often translucent, tbougb readily becoming yellow and opaque. Tbe points of difference between these structures and tubercles are as followsThey are somewhat larger, being generally as much as one-eighth of an inch in diameter, and often more, so that their minimum size is equal to, or greater than, the maximum of miliary tubercles. Then the arrangement of broncho-pneumonic masses is quite characteristic, being (as we have already pointed out) determined by the fact that the air spaces connected with one terminal bronchiole are simultaneously affected, and hence the group is like a cluster of nodules attached to a single stem. When such a group of granulations becomes confluent, it forms a mass which may be grey, but is more likely to have become yellow and opaque, while it has the characteristic shape of lobular pneumonia. On the pleural surface these granulations (called racemose by some writers) have a polygonal outline (Fig. 112). True miliary tubercles never become confluent into a considerable mass of the same kind 1 Fig. 112. Hexagonal appearance caused by tbe mutual pressure of the sir . yellow cheesy matter, with obliteration of the bronchioles leading to the loonies. Magnified 60 di. as themselves, though they may be united by inflammatory or fibroid products. Hence nodules which are m immediate connec- tion with masses of the same structure must be broncho-pneumonic, not tubercular. Again, the parts surrounding broncho-pneu- monic granulation may he, if not actually consolidate , „ condition described by Loennec as “ gelatinous mmtobon to is, condensed and imbued with serum m a conditmn hU_an exaggerated oedema. Also, for similar reasons to tho j - . ’ these granulations are seldom found scattered smgv ... - :i comparatively healthy parenchyma, as we often find miliary499 BRONCHO-PNEUMONIC GRANULATIONS. tubercles. As to their consistency, also, broncho-pneumonic ; nodules are, though hard, less hard than miliary tubercles, and have not quite the same almost cartilaginous appearance When : found scattered through healthy lung tissue, they constitute the . disease called miliary hepatization by Virchow, which is one of the torms of so-called acute tuberculosis, seen in children. Microscopicai investigation, of course, reveals the fundamental ; distinction ; the broncho-pneumonic nodules giving on scraping . large catarrhal cells, some in a state of fatty degeneration •’ - glomeruli, granular matter, &c„ while from the miliary tubercle we obtain, by the same, only a few of the cell forms already described While on section it will be seen that in the one case ■ the solidification is caused by accumulation within the air cells • m the other by an interstitial growth.* Combination with Tubercles.—As might be expected, broncho- pneumonic granulations and tubercles are very frequently com- onit JZtimT \° “? be Clea^ distinguished; sometimes, on the othei hand, the tubercles may be, so to speak, concealed in ■huger broncho-pneumonic masses. Eindfleisch states that they may be found probably m all cases where broncho-pneumonic . gradations exist, though perhaps not in large numbers f likeE ?n6t0t n7 ClW,el! UP7 the10ther objects mentioned above as hkelj to be confounded with miliary tubercles, but proceed to iTphthishT °b3eiTatlolls aLready made under the different forms ^™%^ottL7wectoef “°ber?fert TV ?a“ta“e(i ** the controversies of the iodety (“ Path Tran« ” vnl vtL ilecent discussion at the Pathological ^ V17S ^}y different from those here ! and described by the early microscopical obLiWra lf itVb^,m v, Sd is—ssss 8Ucfl forms of (tuberculin- or phthisical) disease nn nhicliaPterCHAPTEB XXXin. PULMONARY PHTHISIS AND NEW GROWTHS. By phthisis we understand a chronic disease leading to partial destruction of one or both lungs. This change never occurs without inflammation; seldom without the presence of tubercles, and freouentlv attended by the production of fibroid tissue. 1 The controversies about pulmonary phthisis have of late years in «eat part turned upon the question whether there are several forms orwhether all are reducible to onethe question, as it is called’ of the unity or multiplicity of phthisis. According one school (which agrees with the doctrines of Laennec) dl changes in a phthisical lung are due to the deposiBon or prod^ Bnn and subsequent changes of one particular ^nd „oi ™ater1^ viz. 'tubercle. ^ Another school regards some cases of phthisis r.s wholly due to inflammation, and other cases as par y m a - matoiw partly due to the changes of tubercle. Again, of the non tubercular chlnges, two types are distinguished, namely, caseous ‘“wfbeKaK; varieties of phthisis; depend partly «]»» changes, or vice versa, but only parmy, anu l portant cause of the different appcarance s the mo e m Is n'sairsz arsrf C1 ° oto loa it iocs uot appear that the disc.™ h»FORMS OF PHTHISIS. 501 followed in its distribution the channels of respiration, but rather those of circulation, sanguineous or lymphatic. In such cases the “tubercles” will appear scattered through the lung without any reference to the bronchi or the anatomical divisions of the lung dependent upon them. Their distribution will then appear quite irregular, though minute examination may show that a certain number of the granulations are formed around blood-vessels in other perivascular lymphatic channels ; while there may be other evidence of the participation of the lymphatics, such as the pre- sence of tubercles in the pleurae, which are known to contain very numerous lymphatic channels leading from the lung. This consti- tutes the infective form of phthisis, and agrees in its mode of distribution with acute miliary tuberculosis formerly spoken of, being, in fact, essentially the same disease become chronic. These two extreme types of disease are sufficiently contrasted when seen absolutely unmixed, but this very rarely happens; almost all cases presenting some features of both morbid processes. The catarrhal form becomes in fact complicated with tubercles, produced, as is thought, by local infection; and the tubercle in the infective form never fails to produce secondary inflammation round it. Hence, in a chronic disease, whichever may have been its mode of origin, the appearances will be ultimately the same, and the catarrhal and infective phthisis will then be not only indistinguishable but identical. We find in both small-celled growth (what is usually meant by tubercle) in the walls of the alveoli and interstitial fassue, while in the alveoli and bronchial tubes are seen masses of larger cells, fibrin, and other so-called inflammatory products; noi is there anything to tell us which of these represents the i original disease. In all chronic forms of phthisis there is some fibrous induration or production of fibroid tissue, but this is sometimes the pre- ponderating, or even the exclusive change, constituting the disease called fibroid phthisis. FORMS OF PHTHISIS. We recognize the following forms of the disease commonlv described as phthisis of the lung:— 1. Catarrhal Phthisis or Caseous Pneumonia. 2. Mixed Phthisis. 3. Tubercular Phthisis. 4. Fibroid Phthisis. : The form of disease in which grey miliary tubercles are found scattered through comparatively unaltered lung-tissue is some- times represented as a form of phthisis, but since there is no actual destruction of the lung, it does not come under our definition of ,s “tsease. We have already described it as acute general tuber- cuiosis affecting the lung, and have nothing to add to that descrip-502 CATARRHAL OR BRONCHO-PNEUMONIC PHTHISIS, ETC. The differences between these forms depend essentially upon the mingling, in different proportions, of tubercles properly so called, j with the products of acute or chronic inflammation. The first form of phthisis is essentially a pneumonia, with peculiar history j and tendencies; the second is similar pneumonia with miliary | tubercles superadded; in the third the disease appears to begin with the formation of tubercles, hut soon to become complicated with pneumonic processes. The second and third forms will then, I when they have reached a certain stage, be practically identical, 1 and their distinction will be a matter of inference, not of observa- tion. They will therefore he described together. The production j of fibroid tissue, or induration from chronic inflammation, may be a part of either of these diseases; but in the form called fibroid phthisis it is the predominating change. I.—CATARRHAL OR BRONCHO-PNEUMONIC PHTHISIS ; CASEOUS PNEUMONIA ; SCROFULOUS PNEUMONIA (VIRCHOW). This form of disease, though it undoubtedly exists, we believe to be, in an nnmixed form, rare. When it occurs it is as a sub-acute disease, sometimes following an acute febrile complaint, as measles or simply acute bronchitis. When chronic we believe it to become almost invariably complicated with the production of tubercles, and usually of fibroid tissue also; the disease then becomes mixed phthisis. At the same time there are cases of chronic limited broncho'-pneumonia when the presence of tubercle cannot always be traced; and we thus have two actually occurring forms of the disease—(1) acute and general; (2) chronic and partial. In un- roixed catarrhal phthisis, we have a considerable portion of one or both lungs, sometimes nearly the whole, consolidated; while other portions are softened or actually converted into cavities; and there is a certain proportion of normal lung tissue. The consolidated portions are to a large extent yellow, dry and friable, in fact caseous. This condition is the yellow tubercular infiltration of Laennec, the scrofulous pneumonia, caseous pneumonia, or tuber- cular pneumonia of different modern writers. Other portions will be in the earlier stage of this affection, that is to say, a grey or pinkish grey hepatization, with the characters of simple catarrhal pneumonia, said to be the “grey tubercular infiltration" of Laennec; and again there will be firm oedema or gelatinous infiltration. The three conditions just mentioned are the three stages olae- "enorativo or caseous pneumonia; the same affection which, here found alone, accompanies the production of tubercles in chrome phthisis. The yellow colour of the last stage is due to fatty de- generation of the catarrhal products contained in the alveoli. Inis disease is usually lobular, or develops from broncho-pneumonia, but is said to develop from lobar pneumonia also. The diseaseCHRONIC LIMITED BRONCHO-PNEUMONIC PHTHISIS. 503 portions are sometimes separated from healthy lung tissue by a tolerably definite line. (Fig. 113.) At other times small masses of granulations show the gradual extension of the morbid process. The formation of cavities seems to take place by necrosis and soften- ing of masses of caseous material; attributed by some to the mutual pressure exercised by the masses of cells and inflammatory pro- ducts which choke the alveoli, by others to obstruction of vessels. Sometimes, though not generally, active suppuration takes place through the lung, and numerous small cavities are formed by a sort of purulent infiltration. ^Etiology.—This affection, though unaccompanied by miliary tubercles is evidently closely related to tubercular disease. This is sometimes shown by one lung being in the condition of caseous pneumonia, while the other contains tubercles ; or as we have seen in two or three cases, by the presence of tubercles in the pleura covering a lung affected with this disease. It has been supposed that even when no tubercles are discoverable they must neverthe- less have been present,* but we do not see sufficient reason for this supposition; at the same time it is very probable that the two affections may be due to the same cause, and may be thus spoken ot as part of the same disease ; so that if any morbid '• poison ” should ever be shown to be the cause of tubercle, that will probably be found to produce, in some cases, “ caseous pneumonia ” also. The cases we have seen have been chiefly sequelae of measles or acute bronchitis. Others are given by MM. Herard and Oornil [op. eit., pp. 498, 504). This is the disease which is a consequence of, or perhaps consti- • GS’ °ne ^orin catarrhal broncho-pneumonia. Why in one case : that affection should pass away without leaving any trace behind • 1 and ™ other cases it destroys tho lung, we do not know. Two • suppositions may, however, be made. First, that the constitution °t the patient, that is _ some structural peculiarity in his tissues is the cause of the difference; or, secondly, that there is some specific poison or morbid material contained in the blood, which ^mSes„^e bronchitis and pneumonia which constitute phthisis to differ from simple inflammations of the same kind.f CHRONIC LIMITED BRONCHO-PNEUMONIC PHTHISIS. In this which is the commonest form of phthisis, at least amotr- me non-fatal cases, the disease begins in the apex of the lun°- • is otten confined to that part, producing the well known signs in the ■ dffraoiavicular region known as those of “ early phthisis.” If wo ! a"d Oornil, “ La Phthisic Pulmonairc,” pp. 144 and 492. Paris 18B7 diffa™"?the: cntan-hal pneumonia, which is in most rases the cause of nhthisis is „ different disease from ordinary catarrhal pneumonia; whether it is not in mJ™ elements^ TT” c0""d> P?r»“P*. % a certain “ imperfection'■ oiSi .f the lung substance; this may ut least for the present be renardort «1 vofi pUe^°)n- (°PP°lzer> “ Vorlesungen iiber specielle Pathologic unf Thorapie ”MIXED PHTHISIS AND TUBERCULAR PHTHISIS. 504 have an opportunity of examining the disease in an early stage we find a soft yellowish mass of degenerated matter probably sur- rounded by or continuous with a very few pearly granulations of broncho-pneumonic character such as have been just described. If the disease have lasted longer there may be some grey indura- tion, and dilated bronchial tubes, the latter containing, perhaps, some putty-like matter. If the disease be distinctly obsolete or obsolescent there will be also puckering of the pleural surface; and probably nothing else but fibroid tissue, or, perhaps, a little nutty-like matter contained in a bronchial cavity. In these latter stages nothing that can be defined as a tubercle is to be found; nor is there any evidence that tubercles have been there and been absorbed. In earlier stages (which only chance opportunities can reveal to us) tubercles are at least in some cases absent. Hence the probable (though not absolutely certain) conclusion is that all the appearances just described may be produced entirely without the intervention of tubercle. Formerly it was thought that all the changes just described came from a primary deposit of tubercle; and though we cannot absolutely disprove this assertion in all cases, we can say that it is not a positive conclusion, and not supported by such evidence as an inference of that nature demands. As, however, the production of tubercle is always likely to occur, this form of disease passes insensibly into mixed phthisis. II. AND III.—MIXED PHTHISIS AND TUBERCULAR PHTHISIS. The first of these forms, which includes by far the larger pro- portion of all cases of phthisis, was formerly regarded as entirely due to the formation and subsequent changes of tubercles; lately, especially by German writers, it has been represented as purely inflammatory in its origin, an opinion long ago defended by the late Dr. Addison.* . . ,. . , , A If we regard tubercles as signifying something beyond^ and different from inflammation, then this way of looking at the question is certainly too narrow, since tubercles may almost always be found in chronic cases. On the other hand, when tubercles are once formed, they always become complicated with inflammatory changes. The phenomena will then be the same as if the disease had begun with inflammation and tubercles had been superadded. For these reasons they find it impossible to distinguish between the third and fourth forms when the disease has become chronic, and we feel compelled to describe together the mixed phthisis which is in its commencement inflammatory, and tubercular phthisis, which becomes inflamma- tory, as Chronic Phthisis. , See also Wilks’s “ Lectures on Pathological Anatomy,” 1S59, p. 210..505 CHRONIC PHTHISIS (MIXED AND TUBERCULAR). Chronic phthisis nearly always begins at the apex of the lun^ the exceptions to this rule being found chiefly in children. If we happen to light upon a lung in an early stage of the disease we fand a larger or smaller portion of the apex consolidated, the solid t tissue usually yellow, dry, and somewhat caseous, like, the whole lung 01 larger masses in the catarrhal phthisis referred to iust nowr. J Fro. 113. The apes of a lung affected with caseous pneumonia; the limitation of the disease was defined by a sharp line. The affected portion is sometimes separated by a sharp line from he healthy lung, sometimes a border of broncho-pneumonic granulations is seen. There is not necessarily any miliary tubercle. Fio. 114. Cicatrix at the apex of a lung, resulting from tire previous arrest of tubercular disease. ■•So slow is the progress of disease that further changes Hire ni.„. before .„y large portion of the lung is affected! Thf oft506 CHRONIC PHTHISIS (mixed and tubercular). consolidated portion becomes softer and more cheesy, -while the outer portion becomes harder and more fibroid. In this way begin the two most important processes of chronic phthisis, viz., softening or breaking down and induration. The former process may go on to the formation of a cavity, as will be shown hereafter. If the latter preponderate, the degenerated tissue may become surrounded by a firm capsule and thus become obsolete (Fig. 114), and the disease may thus be arrested, as is more minutely described below. If the disease extend over the whole of a lobe a much greater J variety is seen in the products to which it gives rise. Besides some masses of caseous matter, we shall find fibroid tissue, peri- bronchial thickenings, and broncho-pneumonic granulations, be- sides, in all probability, true miliary tubercles. If these are very numerous the appearances presented will not be distinguish- able from those seen in cases in which the disease commences with the production of miliary tubercles or chronic tuberculosis. It is impossible to give any description of the manifold appearances which result from the intermixture of all these products, and we can only describe separately the chief morbid processes on which they depend. , Necrosis, Caseation, and Brealcing-Down.—The death and de- generation which lead to the formation of caseous masses affect both the new formations, whether inflammatory or tubercular, and the original tissue. Various explanations have been given of this decay, or “ necrobiosis,” in different cases. Ns to the inflammatory products which choke up the alveoli, their history is, up to a cer- tain point, the same as that of ordinary pneumonic products, and, like these, they might undergo fatty degeneration, softening, and elimination. They do,.however, become dry, cheesy, and crumb- ling'. This change has been explained by the mutual pressure exercised by the newly-formed cells tightly packed together m the air spaces, which interferes with then; nutrition. Ii this accumu- lation of inflammatory products continue so that the pressure is still further increased, the blood-vessels become obliterated, and more rapid necrosis, leading to softening, occurs, which involves also the lung tissues. According to Virchow, the early decay o phthisical products is a special property of the elements formed m all the diseases called “ scrofulous.” According to others, it is tne property of the newly-formed elements in so far as there is a gener diathesis or constitution of the body which causes all new forma- tions to be incapable of higher development and liable to early degeneration and death. In all these theories something moic i wanting to account for the actual death of the tissues themse vis. This is explained by an old observation,, lately revived by Wilson Fox, that the vessels, both capillaries and smaller arJ*n > in parts affected with tubercle, are often found obliterated. Hence the obliteration and destruction of vessels is regarded as theca me of caseation and necrosis, both of the morbid products and of tissues of the part, this obliteration being caused by growth507 CHRONIC PHTHISIS (MIXED AND TUBERCULAR). tubercle in the vascular wall, and being, as we have shown before, an essential feature in the growth of tubercle (p. L94). Another source of caseous material must not be overlooked, viz., the degeneration of effused blood. This gives rise, as is well known, to dry crumbling material, which may soften and liquefy in the same way as the cheesy masses of phthisis, and as a matter of fact capillary haemorrhage into the alveoli often takes place, as seen m Fig. 110, so that in this way a certain amount of caseous mattei may be produced.. Indeed, an old haemorrhagic infarction (p. 474) has, at a certain stage, much resemblance to “ crude tubercle. Formation of Cavities or Vomicae.—Destruction of the lung with formation of cavities is the most constant and important of morbid changes m chronic phthisis. It results partly from the necrosis or slow decay just described, and partly from inflamma- tion and suppuration. So the phthisical cavity or vomica is not precisely an abscess, nor merely the result of local death or necrosis. It should be remembered that the lung tissue is exposed to the air and to the putrefactive influences brought by it, so that decay will be more rapid and more resemble ordinary putrefaction '■as 111 totor) than necrosis in secluded parts of the body. In vomicre there have often been found the minute organisms i (micrococci and bacteria) which accompany putrefaction. ter the first production of tubercle is completed, the morbid diathesis may as it were, have exhausted itself and the process nters into a state of abeyance, all active symptoms being arrested: or the inflammatory action is perpetuated and the course is con- tinuous to the fatal termination. In the former case every recur- rence of bronchitic or pneumonic inflammation finds a nidus of tubercle around which fresh matter is deposited, or which becomes an additional source of irritation. In both cases a process of iueS “nun and pus are secreted from the parts in ic e morbid deposit has been effected, the intervesicular septa are more and more absorbed and broken down, the softened matter dnds its way into the larger bronchi and is expectorated, a mixture ■f?Ua’ melanotic, oily and granular matter, interspersed with epithelium and the elastic fibres of the lungs, and the result is a cavity m the pulmonary tissue. The walls of this cavity may be more or less ragged, and be more or less lined with caseous latter, or present no traces of it, according to the date of its for- mation tubercular cavities or vomicte were formerly often mis- Wafii f.r. genuine abscesses, and wore sometimes called ulcers. to JiJ aiU numbe”’ tbere ™ay bo but one, or so many as enffi,?8 entme iung a nddled or honeycomb appearance when TuL ,1 ; 18 f,ar0’ as. Laennec observes, to find a single cavity f hej vary equally in size, from a pea to a man’s fist, and more St ofTt^Zmtl™ th° aLsCCSS and the bronchus passing out of it resembles a fistulous opening, the peculiar relation of which to respiration causes many of the phenomena of ausculta-508 CHRONIC PHTHISIS (MIXED AND TUBERCULAR). tion. The excavation is commonly surrounded by crude ar.d miliary tubercles which gradually soften, are then discharged into the main cavity, giving rise to the anfractuosities 'which we com- monly observe. The excavations are often traversed by bands of pulmonary tissue infiltrated with tubercular matter, and compared by Laennec to the columnee carneie of the heart. These bands often contain branches of the pulmonary artery, the walls of which are always thickened and infiltrated with tubercular products, and the channels of which are usually obliterated. Less frequently the vessels remain pervious and become enlarged into aneurismal dilatations, from which fatal haemorrhage sometimes occurs. The bronchioles, and successively the larger air-tubes, are subjected to Fig. 115. A lonK, exhibiting extensive intimate and lower lobe, and the tube, cular disease is seen encroaching upon the latter. the same destructive agency, until the power of resistance caused bv the stronger walls of the bronchi of the first and second order is too great to bo overcome by the morbid process. Instead of a mere uneven rugged surface, as if the lung baa been mouse-eaten, the walls of old cavities often present a uniform velvety appearance, and are invested by a false membrane. which may assume a considerable thickness, but at the eai 1 disease is of slight consistence and easily separable. The tissue beyond the lining membrane may be in a healthy present tubercular and inflammatory Pr°ducts. but ^ contains much melanotic carbonaceous matter, lh s . ^ , Sane rcSmbles what has been called the pyogenic membraneCHRONIC PHTHISIS (MIXED AND TUBERCULAR). 509 of ail ordinary abscess. It may produce on the one band pus, on the other hand permanent connective tissue. The former is shown by the profuse expectoration so often seen in phthisis, the latter in the firm walls which enclose old vomicae in the lung and the induration of surrounding tissue. The greater smoothness of the internal surface, and the firmness of the walls, distinguish old from recent cavities. Dilatations of the bronchial tubes complicate and enlarge cavities in varying degrees. Many cavities doubtless commence in bronchial dilatations, accompanied or not by ulcer- ation of the walls. Fio. 116. The aP?x of a. lung containing numerous cavities, with tubercular and caseous products intervening. The large cavity, and several of the smaller ones, are lined with an adventitious membrane. In the majority of instances both lungs are found to present excavations. Louis states that in one-sixth only of his total cases of phthisis, they were limited to one or the other lung, and when ■ present on both sides were of different size; in somewhat less than one-tenth of his cases, both lungs were the seat of enormous exca- vations, equally largo on both sides, and in another tenth, where the cavities presented but small or moderato dimensions, these dimen- sions were the samo in both organs. Largo cavities (of the size of a goose’s egg or a clenched fist) Louis found to occur in about one- half of the cases, and with equal frequency in each lung; in the ■remainder of his subjects ho found cavities of tho size of an :ordinary-sized apple or walnut.COMPLICATIONS OF PHTHISIS. 510 HAEMORRHAGE IN PHTHISIS. In early stages of phthisis, haemorrhage is thought in many cases to occur in the bronchial tubes, without there being neces- sarily any destruction of lung tissue, as has been already men- tioned (p. 445), but it is right to say that some authorities do not accept this explanation, holding that haemorrhage in such cases is always indicative of the presence of tubercle. There can be no doubt that some escape of blood is very common indeed in the neighbourhood of tubercles, as may be seen in Fig. 110, and doubt- less results from infiltration of the wall of the smaller vessels with tubercular growth. More considerable and sudden haemorrhage must arise from rupture of a larger vessel, but this is extremely difficult to trace, it being sometimes impossible, even in cases of fatal haemoptysis, to detect the injured vessel. It is generally clear, however, that the extravasation must have taken place into a cavity, or on a free surface, since the tissue is not lacerated as it would be were the haemorrhage interstitial. In a certain number of cases of advanced phthisis, bleeding appears to result from the rupture of a small aneurism or aneurismal dilatation (see p. 389). Cases have been collected by Dr. Douglas Powell, who gives the particulars of four cases which came under his own ob- servation and of others from various sources, and draws the con- clusion that—“ fatal pulmonary haemorrhage in cases of advanced phthisis almost invariably proceeds from rupture of a branch of the pulmonary artery in a cavity, either traversing its walls or crossing it, embedded in a tubercle.” If blood, from whatever cause, be poured out into the bronchi, it may of course be drawn by inspiration into others than that in which it first appeared; and in this way solid casts are sometimes formed which are to be dis- tinguished from those of plastic bronchitis, j" COMPLICATIONS OF PHTHISIS. The complications of disease occurring in the course of tuber- cular phthisis and at different periods, are inflammations of the mucous membranes of the air passages of the pulmonary paren- chyma and of the pleura. Of the appearances presented by the first, and of the relative frequency of occurrence m them oi ulcerations in consumption, we have already spoken, ther can be no doubt that the acrid character of the expectorated matters very much favours the ulcerative process. The frequency with which slight attacks of pneumonia supervene m the course oi phthisis, is not surprising, if we look upon it merely as an exace - • “ Trans. Path. Soc.,” vol. xxii. p. 41. + Peacock : “ Trans. Path. Soc.," vol. xrav. p. 20.COMPLICATION’S OP PHTHISIS. 511 bation of the process actually constituting the disease. It appears in each case to cause an extension of the morbid process, and not to be the result of the previous elimination of tubercle. The pleurisy accompanying tubercle may supervene at various periods, and by the adhesions it causes and the consequent increased immobility of the lung, it necessarily much favours the development of the tubercular process. That the tubercular disease has a tendency to ' excite pleurisy, is evident from the frequency with which the latter occurs at the apices of the lungs, often forming a complete car- I tilaginoid cap from which it is difficult or impossible to detach the lung entire. When tubercular excavations approach close to the 1 pleural surface, and are not preceded by thickening of the pleura as generally occurs, a perforation may take place, inducing effusion i ot air and liquid into the cavity and secondary inflammation • 1 we .then have _ to deal with hydro-pneumothorax, upon which a rapidly fatal issue is almost certain to follow. Mere cellular • adhesions, according to Eokitansky, cannot prevent this termina- tion; they are, m part, mechanically loosened by the effusion from the cavern, and being involved in the pleuritic process, they are in part likewise destroyed m the exudation. Eokitansky describes . three forms m which the communication between the tuberculous cavity and the sac of the pleura may be established ; the pulmonary ■pleura may be detached from the affected surface by the mere force of the an- rushing in so as to form a bulla, which afterwards bursts ; t may be converted into a whitish eschar which tears or becomes .detached unbroken, or the pleura, together with the infiltrated ^parmdiymasurron ruling the cavern, may become gangrenous and be converted into pulpy matter. of Pulmonary tubercle with tubercular disease in other organs is of very common occurrence; Louis* found tuberculous ulceration in the intestines in five-sixths of the cases nrrlf-fa?Te<i’ tbe Emphatic glands were affected in the following axillir^ frequeuW : the bronchial most, next the mesenteric, the Sln’l m+e^C0llC1- lumbar> and cervical; the spleen and kidneys BjSH tubofl;cular Products m about one-sixth of the cases ; info t„LmeS, the P1'°®tate was fouil<1 more or less transformed tuberculous matter, and tubercle was also met with in nr«Jle;i?bral ara?]lnoid> though the frequency is not stated. The Lt* ng condition of the liver in pulmonary phthisis is one of Wth d®f ne!'abou/, Louls found ^ fatty in one-third of his cases \ith regara to the co-existence of pulmonary tubercle with mbercular disease m other organs, the general law has been es ;abhshed, that wherevor, after the age of fifteen, tubercles present of tt,i ™—ess Obsolescence of Tubercle.—When the tubercular products in fLo >mgs do not advance and undergo the progressive^hanges which * “ Researches on Phthisis," Sj d. Soc. ed., p. lfip.COMPLICATIONS OF PHTHISIS. 512 we have described, a process of obsolescence occurs which appears to consist in certain chemical changes in the tubercular matter, followed by certain secondary alterations in the surrounding tissues by which they are adapted to the requirements of the case these we find to exhibit two distinct kinds, which were formerly thought to depend upon a difference in the diathesis primarily giving rise to the disease They are characterized by a fibrous or a calcareous metamorphosis. In the former case we find the tubercle assuming a more dense and leathery character, of a semi-cartilagmous con- sistency drying or shrivelling up as it were, accompanied by a contraction of the superimposed tissue. If we examine theti^ne containing tubercle under the microscope, we find mixed up with the ordinary forms of tubercle a distinct connective-t.ssue iorma- tion exhibiting a fibrous striated appearance. In the latter, a conversion of the tubercular matter seems to be effected into a chalky substance, at first moist and soft, _ gradually, owin to absorption of the fluid constituents, becoming harder and drier, and at the same time, shrinking from its previous dimensions; thus at times, we find, to use Hasse’s words, “ that a considerable portion of the lung, as may be inferred from the size of the bronchial tubes leading- thither, becomes reduced to a hard shell, holdino- in its centre a chalky tubercle no bigger than a pea. The chemical characters of these formations have already been alluded to ; they consist of amorphous carbonate and phosphate of r a wiili nerhaps other combinations of the same base, and much fatty matter.1 Lebert has also repeatedly observed cholesterme in chalky^tubercles. The black pigment, which is at fames met with to considerable amount in tuberculized lungs, and still more in the bronchial glands, does not present any different feature* from that commonly found in the pulmonary parenchyma. It appears to consist of pure carbon, and may present a mere amor- nbrnis eranular form, imbedded in and scattered irregularly , yp i.i _ tiSo-ne or it is found inclosed in an epithelial cell. The amount of the deposit is greater in proportion to the ad™n9® ' SISS S a»B£ra£ “prelect'S bWk must be regarded as evidence of a cm’at^e ^ “ Lii* dofr that an are justified in assuming, as it appears Caiswell doe., m * 11 Elementary Forms of Disease,” art. “Tuborclc."COMPLICATIONS OF PHTHISIS. •318 entire absorption of tubercular matter may take place without a metamorphosis of this kind, or without the formation of a cavity, is a question which we are not prepared to answer positively, though there is no certain proof to the contrary. That the healing process is not limited to the first stages of the disease, but is also seen after the formation of cavities, is established by the unani- mous testimony of the best observers. Andral remarks that traces of cicatrization are found in individuals, who at one period of their life have been subject to a severe affection of the respiratory organs, which was legarded as phthisis, or in such as have been cured of a previous pulmonary attack, but have succumbed to a subsequent . one of the same character, or, lastly, in persons who from the first < day of their cough have continuously grown worse, in whom, • Slerefoi'e’ a^er cicatrization of one cavity new ones had formed. The cavities may disappear altogether, leaving a dense white ! nbrous tissue ramifying irregularly in the surrounding tissue, or : the obliteration is incomplete, the cavity remains partially open, and the character of the lining membrane undergoes a change assimilating it to a serous membrane, or, which is more commonly i the case, converting it into a vascular villous covering, resemblin'1, a mucous membrane. Rokitansky states that, in the latter case, aneunsmal dilatation, or a gelatinous degeneration of the vessels - subjacent to the membrane, is liable to give rise to haemorrhage into the cavity, which either proves fatal, or else, by coagulating 1 UP the vessel, becomes a further means of oblitera- tion and ultimate cure. Tuberde in Early Life.—Before quitting the subject of pulmonary . KT.rC,e’ ^ave allude to certain differences which exist j Between the manifestation of the disease in early life and later years. In the former instance the lungs are much less liable to j Become the seat of the disease than they are in the latter; it is .more commonly simultaneously produced in a greater number of organs; and while, according to the extensive researches of Messrs. Kiuiet and Barthez, which are confirmed by those of Dr. West, the yellow form of tubercle ” largely predominates, there is a remark- ‘ aoie immunity from tubercular cavities. The cavities that do occur are much smaller in proportion, and, though occasionally very numerous, do not give rise to the same amount of destruction 11 i Pulmonary tissue that we see in the adult. The differences a mded to may bo accounted for, partly by the greater share the nutritive organs take in all the functions of early life, and partly By the proclivity existing in the lungs to lobular inflammation, ino latter circumstance renders it probable that a minute exami- nation of tubercle in the infant, would exhibit a greater production nt pus coincidently with the elimination of tuborcular matter ri nwS f?Uml m the adult Wo extract the following table from ,11 )Ve8t 8 classical work on tho diseases of childhood, as the best KiS °\that °an ?ffe,red of the rolation borne by tubercle to ne different organs of the body in early and advanced life. L L514 FIBROID PHTHISIS. Of 100 instances in which tubercle was deposited in some of the The lungs . . . Bronchial glands Mesenteric do. Small intestines . Spleen . . . . Pleura . . . • Peritoneum . . Liver . . . . • Large intestines . Kidneys. Brain Stomach Children from Adults from 20 years and 1 to 15 years. upwards. According- to • According to According to Billiet and Barthez. Louis. Lombard. 84 100 100 79 28 9 46 33 19 42 33 0 40 13 6 34 2 1 27 0 0 22 0 1 19 10 0 brain 16 0 2 15 2 i ii 0-8 2 6 0 0 dium. 3 0 0 This table, as Dr. West remarks, shows not only that the liability of certain organs to become the seat of tubercle is different in childhood from what it is m the adult; but, also, that tubercle is simultaneously produced in a greater number of organs in the young than in the old. IV.—fibroid phthisis. Some authorities regard this as a distinct disease, others as merely ordinary phthisis which has lasted a long time, so that t caseous products below the tubercles have become absorbed or din- nnneared while only the more prominent fibroid tissue remains , in S as ‘‘dd phthfsis.” Others regard it as a different disease, ab initio, not necessarily connected with tubercle or inflammation. The question is too complicated to be discm^d here. We can only state our belief in the occurrence of cases such of toft taw. “*fi]Sedc3 very greatly predominates, only a few tubercles or a little caseom rnatter bein^ present to indicate the mixed character of the 2. Extensive fibroid change in one or both lungs, with caviHes, but with no tubercles visible to the naked eye, but where, ne theless, they may bo detected on microscopic ^^^l^hBis and Both these forms are fairly described as fibroid phthr , ^ may occur in comparatively young persons (a little over that age cannot be adduced as an explanation of thmr 1 ^re ono j Wc regard them as extreme cases of ordmaiy phthi - ,CANCER AND OTHER NEW GROWTHS IN THE LUNG. jlo t Trans. lath. Sou.,” vol. xxiii. p. 245. ’Q’r 1872. of the constant elements of this disease preponderates over the others. 3. Cases in which one lung only is affected with fibroid in- duration and partial destruction are more properly referred to the chronic pneumonia formerly described. CANCER AND OTHER NEW GROWTHS. No kind of tumour is common in the lungs as a primary growth but most of them may occur secondarily when first produced in other parts of the body. Referring to the classification formerly . given, we must begin with simple histioid tumours. Fibrous tumours may be said generally not to occur in the lung either primarily or secondarily. One case is, however, recorded by Mr. Paget, m which a strictly fibrous tumour gave rise to - secondary growths of the same kind in the lungs. * The following have never been observed in the lung - -Myxoma lipoma, angioma, adenoma, myoma. ’ Cartilaginous and bony tumours have both been observed as ' secondary growths after the recurrence or removal of similar • tumours m distant parts. Instances of this metastasis of carti- laginous growths have already been given (p. 143). It has been ' fefdwai®nch0^dr0ma may occur in th<? lung as a primary ■ growth, but this needs confirmation. The bony tumours found in the lung are generally, if not always, osteoid,. Ihe form of simple tumour which most frequently occurs in the ungis lymphoma Growths of this kind frequently originate in ho bionchial glands or m the mediastinum, and may then spread by Sl!r rtl0n mt0 MalG of these tumours have lescubed as cancer of the lung, or mediastinal cancer. The tiue character of the tumour, however, is apparent when a section Ivnmbrirlshaken ,up water to remove the superabundant in Pi, T ?orPuscles> when the characteristic stroma represented n tv?;T:u a])PTn - ®lmllar Amours may, however, originate ffef in rf1M ^a“ i’ and r6ach a Ve^ lal'8'e size- without t on Ui A, lung-! The -lu°g u attacked by a species of infiltra- vessels 1ieKdS the root of the principal S and chief bronchi. Often the growth evidently takes place de aSedrTf ‘i dmslons of tko pulmonary artery. Sometimes na e orfn’ ^ tu?ours aro formed. Tho growth is usually Pate, opaque, soft, and gives on section a very large ouantitv iiT/r *, js toisuysSw hflvo ntype1°f m®d?llary cancer. Several cases of this affection thi hbrn descnbeid f lat° Jears>t and, doubtless, many more which were fonnerly described as medullary cancer really^belong * Surgical Pathology-,” 2nd edition, p. 762.516 CANCER AND OTHER NEW GROWTHS IN THE LUNG. here. * It may, indeed, be taken as a well ascertained fact, that of the growths which arise in the anterior mediastunim or m the bronchial glands, some have all the infectious and destructive properties of what have been called, par excellence, malignant Fig- IW. Fig. 118. Infiltrated secondary cancer of the hmg, tinge, and of greater density part is that containing the growth , ^the right lung of a young woman, and hardness than the unaffected parts. I surrounded with a mass of medullary aired thirty-four, whose right bronchus ’waa same kind, and the eleven eStensively destroycd bythc samc tumours, though preserving the in the secondary infection of the Tung from a distant tumour.CANCER AND OTHER NEW GROWTHS IN THE LUNG. 517 £ “ Trans. Bath. Soc.," vol. xx. p. 25. 1809. Cancer of the Lung.—The variety of true cancer found most commonly in the lung is the medullary. If, however, the name be taken in the strict sense given to it in the first part of this work, it is not of frequent occurence; and is almost always secondary. Undoubted cases of primary cancer, though rare, have neverthe- less been put on record. Dr. Walshe, in his work on Cancer, refers to a few; but with respect to some of them, it may be doubtful whether they were precisely what we now mean by cancer. Passing by earlier observations, we may refer to some in the “ Transactions of the Pathological Society.” * The primary tumours are usually solitary, somewhat large masses; the secondary growths are sometimes in the form of multiple nodules, sometimes of an infiltration. Occasionally they seem to enter the lung from the pleura, on the surface of which they form flat plates or sheets. When projecting on the surface they are often cupped or umbilicated, like similar growths in the liver. The contraction of several such masses may produce a Eeneral puckered and fissured appearance like that of cirrhosis. oftening of the tumours may produce cavities which give the same physical signs as the vomicoe of phthisis, and broken down lung tissue with elastic fibres may under such circumstances be found in the expectoration. Other modes of growth of pulmonary cancer are as follows.f It may be prolonged from the pleural covering inwards by the interlobular septa, and thus divide the lung into a series of irregular polygons. It may also spread along the bronchial tubes, affecting first their exterior; next, the substance of the walls; and finally, the mucous membrane, along which it may extend almost indefinitely, forming, occasionally, casts like those of plastic bronchitis. Or again, it may implicate the vessels, especially the veins, and either occlude them, or grow into their cavity. Sarcomata of the lung occur occasionally as secondary formations, subsequent to similar growths in other parts of the body; the spindle-celled form most frequently. Melanotic sarcoma is also found under similar circumstances. These growths form distinct tumours, not infiltrations, and grow in the walls of the alveoli, not within the air spaces. Dr. Wilks j speaks of having once seen a primary tumour of this character (fibrous or fibrocellular growth) m the lung. Ossifying sarcomata (one form of osteoid cancer) may also occur secondarily in the lung.§ Scirrhous cancer also occurs in the lung, most frequently as a consequence of primary scirrhus of the mamma. In such cases it commences in the pleura. Colloid has also occurred in the lung as a secondary growth. Upitholioina of the lung is excessively rare. In a case reported ♦ t Bnstowe, vol. xi. p. 34 (but perhaps a sarcoma). Fange, vol xviii ■ n 00 Bristowe, “Trans. Bath. Soc.,“ vol. xi. p. 25. 1800 1 “Trans. Path. Hoc.,’’ vol. Lx. p. 31.SYriIILITIC DISEASE OF TIIE LUXG. 518 by Dr. Moxon, it appeared to have been transported from the trachea into the bronchial tubes, and to have thus set up small secondary tumours.* SYPHILITIC DISEASE OF THE LUXG. The morbid changes produced in the lung by syphilis are not as yet very well understood, except in certain peculiar and some- what rare cases. As some syphilitic products seem much to resemble those of tubercle, they are, perhaps, sometimes mistaken for the latter. But on the other hand, as persons affected with constitu- tional syphilis often are very liable to tubercular phthisis, we must be cautious iu referring destructive or degenerative changes met with in the lungs of such persons to syphilis alone. The following are the chief forms of syphilitic disease met with in this situation :— 1. The true gumma, or syphiloma (p. 203). 2. A peculiar form of pneumonia, the “white pneumonia of some authors, chiefly seen in congenital syphilis. 3. A species of indurative lobular pneumonia. 1. Oummata of the lung are rarely met with; and more fre- quently in congenital than in acquired syphilis ; they have the characters already described in the first part of this work. 2. The white pneumonia of syphilis has been described by several authors. According to MM. Cornil and Banvier, it occurs in newborn children, and up to the age of ten or twelve years. They regard it as interstitial pneumonia, and describe the interlobular connective tissue as in a state of rapid proliferation, presenting a laro'e number of embryonic cells, and the interalveolar partition as thickened. The compressed alveoli are lined, or even filled with epithelial cells which are flattened when in contact with the walls, and rounded in the central space. The alveolar contents undergo fatty degeneration, and become absorbed, while the surrounding embryonic tissue becomes organized into fibrous tissue, so that a fibrous tumour, or a mass of fibrous material results, according as lesion was originally clearly defined or diffuse. , 3. Indurative lobular pneumonia is the commonest syphilitic lesion of the lung in adults. It is often, both in its earliest and latest stages, confounded with tubercular phthisis, but in its middle stages is very different. It commences with minute granu- lations resembling broncho -pneumonic tubercle, which become confluent into larger nodules up to the size of a walnut or stiff laro-er. These masses are composed of very dense, engorged tissue, harder than ordinary pneumonia, of a dark red colour, mottled and paler in the centre. They are distinguished from tubercular or scrofulous products by a slighter tendency to degeneration, inese * “ Trans, rath. Soc.," vol. xx. p. 28. See also vol. xii. p. 46 of same series.HYDATID AND OTHER CYSTS. .319 patches pass insensibly into the indurated and congested surround- ing tissue. When degeneration sets in, the central portions become yellow, fatty, and necrotic, while the outer portions fc become more fibrous, and ultimately a mass of cheesy or calcareous :i material, or simply a fibrous cicatrix, is all that remains. The L latter ultimate stages of degeneration are not unfrequently met > with in the lungs of syphilitic individuals, and are hardly dis- tinguishable from old tubercular products, except by being gene- r rally distributed through the lung and not occurring specially at • the apex. It should be remembered that fibrous scars or puckered patches are less likely to be permanent in the lung than in more > solid organs. The microscopical appearances are those of inter- - stitial proliferation, with inflammatory changes in the air cells, ultimately resulting in the formation of rather dense fibrp- nucleated tissue—i.e., essentially what is described in the “white pneumonia.” We have observed in one case a peculiar fibroid : change round the pulmonary artery, suspected to be syphilitic.* HYDATID AND OTHER CYSTS. The formation of cysts in the lungs is of rare occurrence and ^perfectly latent, so that they are not discovered until after death, . unless they excite irritation; they may then find their way into the bronchi and be expectorated. They occupy the lower lobes of the organs. _ They consist, themselves, of a double membrane of a clear pellucid appearance, which under the microscope presents an homogeneous, delicately laminated structure. The laminae form i parallel lines, so as to resemble the pages of an open book. The (■pulmonary tissue adjoining the cyst is covered by a dense mem- brane, so that, although entirely surrounded by the pulmonary ;parenchyma, there is not in reality any real intimate relation I with it. They generally contain a limpid fluid, and present an endogenous development of hydatids of the same character as the parent cyst. They vary in size, but an instance which occurred to us, of an acephalo-cyst sufficiently capacious to contain a hen’s -egg> must be looked upon as unusually large. It neither contained secondary hydatids nor echinococci. A unique case of cysts in the lungs, filled with air, is quoted by Hasse.t ■* Payne, “Trans Path. Soc.,” vol. xxv. + “ Pathological Anatomy,” Syd. Soc. ed., p. 337.CHAPTEE XXXIV. ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE PLEURA. PLETXRITIS. The serous sac inclosing the lungs and serving to facilitate the movements of respiration, is more prone to morbid affections than any other serous membrane; of these, inflammation is the most frequent, and one that arrests the physician’s attention very com- monly both in the patient and in the dead subject. Some of the products of inflammation -were formerly set down to physiological causes, owing to their being frequently met with in individuals whose histories did not give evidence of pleuritic inflammation having occurred in the course of their life. Put the inference is not just, because even in severe pleurisies the symptoms are not necessarily of a character to attract the patient s attention, and most persons are familiar with the occurrence of occasional pains, of a not very enduring character, which may he accompanied by some effusion, though not of sufficient intensity to interfere with the function of respiration. The great frequency of the concur- rent inflammation of the pulmonary tissue and its investing mem- brane, has given rise to a frequent misapplication of the term, and to a variety of theories in reference to the cause of pleurisy, bo distinguished an author as Portal attempted to prove that pneu- monia was not essentially different from pleuritis; but since the more careful prosecution of morbid anatomy, and the clearer dis- tinction of symptoms during life which we owe to auscultation, no doubt exists that the two, though often associated, differ m their symptomatology as they do in their etiological and patno- logical relations. , .. , % The first stage of acute inflammation of the pleura is mannestea bv the appearances of greater or less congestion, causing a cm tude of vessels not visible in the perfectly healthy pleura to naked eye, to become filled with blood; a marked distinction ma. sometimes be observed between the venous and arterial channels, as exhibited in the different colours of the two systems. The Yes sels form an irregular network, and the more intense the mPLEURITIS. 521 matory condition, tlie more uniform the redness becomes. At times we find the character of the congestion to be more puncti- form, and to resemble, as Laennec has it, an attempt made to dot over the pleural surface with a paint-brush, with small spots of blood of an irregular shape, and closely approaching one another; it is probable that in many cases this appearance is due, not to the peculiarity of the disease, but to a partial emptying of some ves- sels as a post-mortem effect. The membrane, at the parts most affected, soon loses its natural transparency and gloss, in conse- quence of a secretion from the overcharged vessels investing its surface with a coating of lymph or fibrine, a straw-coloured, semi- Fig. 119. Straw-eoloured lymph, coating the lower lobe of an inflamed lung, in recent pleurisy, before there was a trace of adhesion to the costal pleura. The outline represents one of two coils of new vessels, seen under the microscope in the fringe of lymph at the lower end. gelatinous effusion which may be easily stripped off from the serous membrane. The microscopic appearances of this fibrine are deli- cate linear fibrillae, of a generally parallel direction, enveloping and entangling the granular and corpuscular forms observed in fibrinous exudation. We very rarely meet with cases of what Andral has termed dry pleurisy, as the effusion is a rapid sequel of the first stages of inflammation; but we frequently have an opportunity of observing a limited production of lymph at one point, while the greater part of the remaining pleura or its fellow, may exhibit the first stage of the disease. This is especially the case on the pleural surface covering blocks of pysomie or Inemor- fhagic infarction. In the recent cases of inflammation occurring m healthy subjects, the effusion presents the appearance of a thin layer of thick cream, which, at the most dependent parts, seems to522 PLETJRITIS. be dropping from the organ. The older the effusion the more it assumes a membranous character, the friction and compression to which it is subject giving to it an irregularly honeycomb or cellu- lar appearance, or causing it early to put on a filamentous or mossy form. The products of inflammation do not always present the characters just described, but vary much in cohesion, in colour, and quantity, according to the constitution of the indi- vidual attached, and according to the exciting cause; thus we may, even in the same subject, meet with different products at different parts of the same lung. Fig- 120. The exudation may be of a more serous or of a purulent character, in which case the sac will con- tain more or less of these fluids in which we find portions of lymph detached from the pul- monary surface floating about, while their peculiar colour, from an admixture of more or less blood, may present a proportion- ately reddish tinge. The more asthenic the type of the inflam- mation, the more the effusion departs from the character of a plastic exudation, the more in- organizable it becomes. The lymph or false membrane thus formed consists of a fibrinous reticulum and lymphoid cor- puscles in variable proportion. The latter preponderate, as might be expected, in inflammations which take on the purulent type; the former in the more adhesive form of inflammation. The section which we have figured came from the surface of a pneumonic lung in the stage of purulent infiltration. As to the origin of these cells, of course, the same difference of opinion may prevail, as with respect to the new cells in all inflammatory processes. It has been clearly shown lately that there is a production of new cells, from the endothelium of serous membranes in the case of the peritoneum, which may by analogy be extended to the pleura. Cell-formation from proliferation oh the connective tissue corpuscles has also been traced by Virchow and others. It is clear, from the figure, that young cells are contained in the interstices of the membrane, and not on its surface only. Emigration from the vessels may doubt- less be also concerned. . , . . , , , When the progress of sthenic pleuntis is uninterrupted, tne change that next ensues after the production of inflammatory lymph on the surface of the membrane, is the formation in the Portion of the lower lobe of the left lung of a patient, compressed by turbid serum occupying the pleural cavity. A thick layer of lymph covered the hepatized portion of lung ; it was perfectly smooth from the contact with the liquid, and there was a free scalloped margin at some parts, of an inch in breadth.PLEURITIS. q2‘ former of new vessels, and such farther alterations in the exuda- tion itself as to induce an assimilation to surrounding textures and a restoration to a state of comparative, if not absolute,' Fio. 121. Section through a pleuritic false membrane, i ^^^T»°fl^nri^Lpl1Ur^?SSUe' b■ Thickness of the false membrane, iemlvf The adventitious membranes that thus become perma- thP m ! jied T6 ° ,gl'eater or less extent> and may be limited to Seura thP, =Ur • SUrfaC°i °/ "°nneCt the Pulmonary and costal E h ’E glVm! nSe ^ further ““portant changes of structure, :vhefarfyt 8510Usly 1,nvo ve the “tire thorax and consecutively eisilv Ja tde, •'5Pmal column. The adhesions are at first soft, ashy separated and vascular, but with time they assume an opaque, whitish hue, and become more firm the older tW are fifth.fre(lUe“cy Wlth wbich they are met, has given rise °f tte ^ -* wklk tKi i thl add““d b»“S based u ,o,‘ bLf PT11,n‘“tS " dl,;'d according to the torhinno8 l 1 10 course °t the new vessels is generally less us and presents more parallelism than the vascular channelsPLEUEXTIS. 524 of the pleura; they appear to he active agents in effecting the absorption of a portion of the exudation matter, and after awhile a retrograde process ensues, and they in part cease to exist, the earliest trace of vessels which we have ourselves discovered in a case of acute pleuritic effusion occupying the base of one lung, where, as yet, no adhesions had taken place, and the cream \ efiu- sion was yet eminently fibrinous, exhibited the appeal ance of small coils, near the edge of the lymph, closely resembling a renal Malpighian tuft, into which two vessels could be seen entering; the sharp outlines of the formations, and a somewhat lighter tinge than the surrounding fibrine, alone marked them ; they con- tained no blood corpuscles, and it was, therefore, only by inference that they were concluded to be young vascular channels, ine thickness of the false membrane varies from a delicate him to many lines; it may itself become the seat of secondary inflam- mation, but in most cases it exerts a repulsive influence upon fresh attacks, and assists in protecting the adjacent parts from encroachment. A marked instance of this occurred under our observation lately, in an old man who had suffered a fracture of seven ribs of the left side, followed by inflammation of the corre- sponding pleura. The two surfaces of the upper half of the pleural sac had formed intimate adhesions, and the subjacent pulmonary parenchyma had remained in a healthy condition ; the lower haff contained two and a half pints of turbid serum, there was a thick layer of false membrane on the corresponding half of the lun* and this part of the organ was rendered unfit for respiration by thp inflammatory process transmitted to it. . , • Accumulation If Fluid.-The amount of hqrnd effusion resultmg from pleurisy varies from the smallest appreciable quantity to a- mudi as twelve pints. A case in which this amount was removed from a man aged thirty-three by paracentesis thoracm ^enby Dr. Novarra, in the < ‘ Medical Repository for,1820. Jr. Hod fan details an interesting case of empyema which itself through the bronchi, and m which, aftei death, three arge basins were filled with the sero-purulent contents ol one pleural & • Liquid effusion not only necessarily induces “ , “ lung on the affected side, pushing it upwards, but also dispk^ the adjoining viscera; the heart is forced over to r- ^ when the effusion is into the left pleural cavity, if ,mj;0 "r i4vpl. jg denressed : in both cases the diaphragm is forced down, ta^owStetterferea with while the intercstol sp^e ¥ the affected side exhibit a marked prominence, and the r maintained in an elevated position. These anatoimcM featare^ extensive pleuritic effusion can scarcely be too n ^ upon in the bearing they have upon diagnosis. However, we must bear in mind that exceptional cases occur, in winch- r £ a partial reabsorption of the fluid having been effected, the • “ Lectures on the Morbid Anatomy, &c.,” vol. i. P- 121-525 PLETTRITIS. • symptoms detailed are not always so marked as to render the diagnosis easy. Laennec observes, that at the epoch at which we ought to operate, the affected side, though full of pus, is less : than the healthy side, owing to this circumstance, and the conse- ! quent falling in of the parietes. Permanent Adhesions.— The secondary changes resulting from - firm adhesion being formed, are of a different character. If they . have been associated with previous extensive effusion, which has b become absorbed, the degree to which the compressed lung will r regain its former functions depends upon the duration of its con- r: finement, and upon the firmness of the adhesions. The immediate consequence of the absorption was first shown by Laennec to be a falling-in of the affected side, owing to the expansion of the ..lung not taking place in the ratio of the removal of the liquid, and the firmer the adhesions are at given points, the more will i. this tendency be promoted by their increasing density and con- traction. The depression is generally most marked at the lower pait oi the thorax, about the seventh and eighth ribs; and, owing • to the consequent atrophy of the respiratory muscles of the affected -:sicle the equilibrium is destroyed, and the spinal column is deprived ot its symmetrical support; from this a curvature of the spine results the convex margin of which is directed towards the healthy - side. The shoulder of the diseased side sinks in proportion. A .talhng-m of the upper portion of the thorax, or of the infra- clavicuiar region, is commonly noticed as an accompaniment of phthisis, consequent upon the formation of extensive cavities, and the coincident thickening and contraction of the pleura, to which we have alluded when speaking of tubercular disease of the lungs. Ihe pleural covering often becomes ultimately not only thick but very dense although in the early stages it will be found highly rceaematous and almost gelatinous in appearance. Fleural adhesions are so common as to be the rule in persons who have reached or passed middle life. They are not necessarily r,lLreSU t °V°flammation properly so-called, but of the hyper- ptashc or proliferative processes which appear to be almost normal on serous surfaces.* middhf P™?livity ,t0 pleuritis is greatest about the in- slj ?V.fd °f lfV.!.ld dl™f£es m the ascending and descend- er wf u ag°- ?6fore tho fafth year it; is not often met with rarnimn .obsei'ves that acute idiopathic pleurisy, unconnected with °r m "'hlch th? mflammation of the lung bears but a WmrlVrrrhr t0 ^at 0f the Plo41'a’ is certainly an un- cal nf e du?;lng the first y°ars of childhood, and as a to us that ^ ltS rant7 18 extrGme: ;ln(1 xt certainly has appeared lencv inLi fc8 ° pneumonm’ there 18 decidedly a less ten- ,h0„M ,> y 10 to excite Pleuritic inflammation than wo mould observe in corresponding affections at a later period! See Klein, “ The Lymphatic System.’ Part I. London, 1873.TLEUEITIS. 526 With regard to chronic pleurisy, Dr. West remarks, “ that while it is a very rare occurrence as a purely idiopathic affection in eaily life, it is one of the most common complications of the dropsy which often succeeds to scarlatina.’ _ We do not generally find extensive pleurisy affecting both sides at the same time, while there is a marked difference in regard to the tendency of either pleura to inflammatory attacks; the left side presenting a much greater proclivity than the right. Hasse certainly states that the two sides are equally prone, but considers the fatality to be greater when the left side is attacked, than when the inflammation affects the right. The thirty-five fatal cases which he observed, were distributed in the following manner:— nine were double pleurisies, and in five out of the nine, the affect tion was trifling on one side; in the remaining twenty-six, the left : side was the seat sixteen times, the right ten times. He also quotes s Mohr’s experience, who found that of fifty-six cases, the left side ■ was the seat thirty-seven times, the right nineteen times. Doctors Hamilton Eoe, Hughes, and Copland, are also of opinion that the disease exhibits a much greater frequency on the left than on the opposite side of the thorax. It appears from the observa- - tions of Messrs. Rilliet and Barthez that the converse is the pre- - vailing character of infantile pleuritis, and that in children the > rio-ht side is more liable to the idiopathic affection than the felt. Pleurisy in Phthisis.—There is no affection with which j tubercular phthisis is so commonly associated as adheaons between the pleural surfaces, and the relation the two beari to one another appears to be in the ratio of the extent of the former. Hence the pleurisy has both a chronic and a more local character, and must be set down to th® s®C°r“|uj irritation arising after the deposit has been effected. - . 1 thickenin- assumes a cartilagmoid consistency, and the union becomes so intimate, that considerable force is often reclu”^ f remove the lungs, and it is scarcely effected without lacerahon of their tissue. The intercurrent pleurisy accompanying tii^rcnl disease of the lungs, is the source of those flying pains which, trom time Sto°time, attack phthisical subjects. The frequency of h occurrence is best illustrated by the statement of Loms that mo ^ hundred and twelve phthisical subjects, he> found.but° lungs were perfectly free, m every point of then surface i cases only he found the right pleura wholly unattacked, a d seven the left; in these cases there were either no non-adherent lung, or they were very small, ^tation, p ing from other parts, may equally give rise to wrtol npJfepition thus we find it limited to the diaphragmatic surface, m^i with a diseased liver, spleen, or peritoneum. 1 ' . 0f the mediastinal portion may be excited by morbid ai11 , _ed “earfor bronoMal glaei; .limited connecting the interlobar fissures, especially m connect pneumonia and tubercular irritation.EMPYEMA. This is the term applied to a collection of pus in the pleural sac produced by inflammation, which may be the result of acute or of chrome disease, but is specially likely to occur in cachectic subjects . 2Lth°se Predisposed to the chronic inflammations called scrofulous’ ■ Whether this is usually preceded by an effusion of serum is un- ' certain, since physical examination does not enable us to discrimi- nate between the two. When the pleural cavity is found full of ; pus, the surfaces are either simply covered with false membranes ol inflammatory lymph, or else, m more chronic cases, the mem- branes are greatly thickened, and resemble the so-called pyogenic ZZ ll T c hT au ab8ces8' The P™ is seldom or never“o TM? tlthat m T absCeS,S Pr°pel’’ beln&r rather a Purulent serum. cLammatTonble ° aS anythinS else than the result of A marked difference exists between the pleura and peritoneum in regard to this point, for, while the former is peculiarly liable to resulting from a low form of inflammation, Ve fluid accumulations that we meet with in the latter, are more often of a mechanical origin; hence the result of operative interference is hvd^Xoinx thanaii-0Urab'te “ cases °f emPyema and inflammatory • • n ascites! m .the former, when the diseased ■drt.taSSfT t0 <t}T ef!'1S10'! has subsided, tlicre does not D^racenST7 6Peated “Simulation as in the latter ; hence Sin^ of h°?i1S 18 llkely t0 Proye a cui'ative agent than a means oVnairbr°mei1’ W^Gl'° l4 rarely serves otherwise than as L7TZniFf t S Uf-°at symPtoms. Dr. Hamilton Eoe, who ■^successful V nKfLaeii'leC S statement. that paracentesis was rarely ®mpvenn ’ and of* & rec°™’y m ei-ht out of nine cases of :hom d ?i Dme °ut of tturteen of inflammatory hydro- nation ’* 1 «n itb^ sai?e PaPer from which we derive this infor- S casesTf !nnd ^ Mps reC°rds a blaef aWS of rninvom i * Palace“tos‘s- thirty-one of which were performed for dieTatter’sL ^rc^ed.7 X,‘ of the twenty-six, of uSess of°n 6Ver’ admitt®d on a11 hands, that it is essential to the period o/the SasT8 WC1S that * b° Performed at aa early llJdShar^ed^n8 T* evac,uated ,by an operation it is occasion- : ronaiw tSe i ’ 6lther by Perforation of the pul- )r. Aiams nonbyi thetlthoraclc parmtes, or by the diaphragm. pon the fi^ t a?th?mo %SeCOn ’fW G Laennoc and HasSe look f the inf. . as, e moio frequent occurrence. The perforation ie base of fSPac1fs takes Place> not as would be expected at base ot the lung, but about the middle lobe of the lung; the ‘•Medico-ChirurBicalTransactioas,” yol. xrvii.528 PNEUMOTHORAX. external discharge being generally effected by sinuoiis openings burrowing unde? the integuments. The prospect of recovery is greater here than when perforation of the pulmonary pleura leads to an effusion into the lung, for, in the latter instance in addition To the mechanical influence of the fluid filling the bronchi, we have to deal with the contamination of the system likely to result Tom the decomposition of the fluid, produced by its contact with ^IttTftS^d that pus m the pleura never te^me^ab^rbei bnt the following appearances, occasionally met witH, -e.m to resultfromapaf tially healed empyema. A collection of clear amber-cfduuxed^ fluid, enclosed by very thick j sometimes in very numerous layers, usually at the bm.e 01 tne In no- or behind with evidence of great contraction having ta en place These are precisely the appearances of an abscess where So “;«cuSo„ hJ takenplace. but wh»e absorpton i» .«»U complete. PNEUMOTHORAX. Perforation of the pulmonary tissue by empye^ modes in which an accumulation of air m the pleural cauty i- i ri TVjp freciuent origin of tins condition is perfora few lines m length, and situated 1 ffersthe greatest liability: fourth rib near the axilla. The left.s" Hasse lias met Louis found it affected m seven out of eigut case^ sidc ^as with nine in which the left and seven m h fi t thirty* the seat of the lesion; and of fattJ c°lie,h ri,;M.side. The im- three were on the left and seventeen on _ c■ .. , actual SSte result Of the Kffili-- »”« suffocation from collapse of the lung, ® t rarely surnves r";.plom & ft Uni .bo t-529 IIYDROTIIORAX. the other viscera are much displaced, according to the side in which the air has accumulated, the epigastrium protruding from the descent of the diaphragm, and its action on the liver and k, 'stomach : the other pathological conditions are those indicatin'* inflammation of the pleura; and we may observe an attempt at •repair in the shape of a false membrane investing the fissure. The occurrence of pneumothorax is only possible when the pleura at The point of perforation has not previously become adherent; but :it sometimes happens that the ulcerative process is continued after ,:he pulmonary and parietal pleura have been agglutinated, and • passing through the uniting medium attacks the intercostal -tebbshed mteeument8, A fistul°ns opening may thus be HYDROTHORAX. Hydro thorax, or dropsical accumulation of fluid in the pleural ac, occurs in two forms, as a primary and as a consecutive lesion • he former is a disease of much less frequent occurrence than was •t one time supposed. Laennec states that one could not establish ^higher ratio for the occurrence of idiopathic hydrothorax as a ause of death, than one m two thousand. Let us hope that the ays are past in which such errors of diagnosis as he alludes to an be committed; for he asserts having found hypertrophy of the eart aortic aneurism, phthisis pulmonalis of a somewhat irreeu- r»r character, and even scm-hus of the stomach or liver, without ie least effusion into the pleura, mistaken for hydrothorax. The nection consists m the effusion of a limpid serosity into the leura, to a greater or less amount, generally limited to one side, ad unaccompanied by any appreciable change of structure in the ; ous membrane; the compression exerted by the fluid upon the and the adjacent parts is necessarily the same in this instance t spidered f0rmS °f U1(1 accumnlation V’hich have already been The secondary or symptomatic form of hydrothorax is a common .d i,\nVCUte-f chronjc diseases, heralding the fatal termination, " y.m" evidence of that loss of tonicity that results from tTto L"? .?'t0 •ft™ “ frequently vul.r ill IT allt tb“n aQy other; hypertrophy of the heart, sociafLi^l’ ^ncmxhhH, are common causes ; it is also often ?ection« ^nth r<3nal degenerations, tubercular and cancerous DS'- T“° •Same cause induces the effusion into the ’ glv?8 ,Tlse t° dropsical accumulation in other serous Rf-nr.’/n'm tllG ce u!ar tissue ; hence symptomatic bydrothorax ,g;n fm! 7 aCCOmffani°d by other affections of the same kind rf-ice b! Pmi!ai7 f01;m- wo find no definite lesion of the serous SbLne a?lanndnWlth iV ^ Is not m fact an Action li the no at all, but exclusively of the vascular system, and we M M530 ADVENTITIOUS PRODUCTS IN THE PLEURA. must look to the blood and the capillaries for an explanation. According to Laennec, it rarely occurs more than a few days before death ; and though it often produces no sensible effec^n the patient’s feelings, it often causes evocative attack i kwh render his last moments painful and distressing. The li pud itself is commonly a clear straw-coloured serum. HiEHOTHORAX. When the pleural sac is filled with blood, or with a fluid of a decidedly sanguineous character, we have the condition knovmas I hsemothorax. This is commonly due to some mechanical lesiori, , or to the rupture of an aneurism; hut it is also said to h. met with as the result of capillary exhalation—of the same character as that to which active or passive spontaneous hmmorrha es am commonly attributable. It is said to he capable of reabsorptao^ or to superinduce inflammatory action; or again, to he liable to decomposition, and thus to give rise to pneumothorax. GANGRENE. Before considering the adventitious products met with in the uleura we must briefly advert to the occurrence of gangrene It smell will also assist in determining the character of the lesion. adventitious PRODU0TS. Am on" the homologous formations occurring in the serom membrane of the lungs, authors enumerate cartilage, bone an St A cartilaginoid thickening of the pleura, more especially a rnrnmmm mmmSM tion of true hone m the pleura as little as of Bcnuine531 ADVENTITIOUS PEODUCTS IN THE PLEUEA. ■ the osteoid deposits are mere amorphous aggregations of calca- reous matter, occurring in plates or irregular points : they may be encysted, and occasionally they form pedunculated projections in- vested by the pleura ; to this_ class we may probably refer the case io£ ossification of the lungs given by Dr. Baillie, * for, in the deli- neation, the ossified parts are distinct polypoid off-sets from the pul- monary tissue, though apparently invested by the same membrane. Rokitansky states that fibrous thickenings may occur on the costal ns well as the pulmonary, but that they only ossify on the costal ileura, the subserous osteoid products occurring chiefly in the ntercostal spaces, from which they may be discharged into the cavity of the thorax in the shape of round nodules, that ossifica- ron ot the pleura is generally preceded by some inflammatory Fig. 122. | rit' capsule of the apex of a lung-, in a man aged sixty-three ■ both i is" some It0 5' affected, and like patches were also found on the spleen. There I a deficit, a{,I>t‘“rancc ot obsolete tubercle, and much black pigmentary matter } aefinite structure was to be traced in the capsule by the microscope. ¥ ' ’ m'L-’ be iiferred both from the frequent occurrence of - ’a ;'Hliljurir^t°ry products in the pleura, and from the analysis < nsulerablo number of cases in a dissertation by Dr. Posselt ■ + oht’fi nrr* 0U^ of twenty-seven instances twelve affected the irtv il,1? the loft “d®» while the ratio of the sexes was as wnm<m t0 *our w.omen- the size ot the osteoid deposit is occa- ho* AT61* f;xt0I?91V0~r)r- Hodgkin removed from an old man , irietal nlo&t &Uyi • rU?8pita1’ a plilto of bone subjacent to the pleura, which halt encircled the chost, and formed a con- * “ Morbid Anatomy,” second fascic. pi. vi. t I>e Pleura* Ossiflcatione." Heidelberg, 1839.532 ADVENTITIOUS PRODUCTS US' THE PLEURA. siderable mass. The fatty deposits which we find connected with the pleura are not seen on the free surface, but seem to be the result either of a transformation of previous inflammatory pro- ducts, or a normal fatty growth under the serous membrane. Eecent fibrinous exudation occasionally closely resembles adipose tissue both in colour and form, though there can be no real dita- culty in determining its nature. , > Tubercle is not very frequently met with in the pleura, and almost exclusively occurs as a secondary form ol the disease. The pleura m this respect differs m a marked nm. ner from the peritoneum and the arachnoid, both of whicff are more prone to primary tuberculosis than the former. Tubercle Fig. 123. “ft m— The Liver also exhibited cancer nodes. forms either under the pleura or on the' of the latter description, Dr. Hodgkin lemar^, ^ and may set., are associated with thickening o c|uefly iu some of the Ksrssffssss: ^otADVENTITIOUS PEODUCTS IN THE PLEUIIA. 533 the lungs, will probably be simultaneously affected. The lungs are in these cases probably never affected without some participa- tion of the pleurae. In more chronic cases the tubercles are found chiefly in thickened pleurae, or even, according to Eokitansky, in ■.actual false membranes. . The highly vascular cedematous adhe- sions met with in chronic phthisis sometimes furnish the most exquisite examples of early stages of tubercle, which will be found i.following the course of the blood-vessels. Kokitanskv again ; describes tubercular abscesses which form in pseudo-membranous •structures, and may perforate the pleura, and even the thoracic walls. Malignant growths never affect the jileura primarily, but involve The membrane by extension from the mamma, the bronchial . glands, the mediastina, or from other neighbouring tissues. They jappear on the pleura as flattened masses, rarely larger than an almond, surrounded by a halo of blood-vessels, mile tubercle accurs in very, numerous small spots spread all over the mem- hrane, cancer is only seen in a few isolated patches. Both are “ j induce serous effusion of a sanguinolent character •Medullary carcinoma and melanotic cancer are the forms of -malignant disease that most frequently attack the pleura. Hydatid cysts appear to occur in the pleura. Cruveilhier * details a case in which a large number of acephalo-cysts were Discharged from an artificial opening, apparently communicating with the pleural cavity, in a whitesmith aged twenty-nine; the man entirely recovered, after the evacuation of above five hundred aydatids. Dr. Hodgkin,t in his fifth lecture, speaks of a specimen rireeented to Guy’s Museum, in which a large cyst containing icephaio-cyst hydatids is situated in part beneath the close peri- -'ardium about the base of the heart, and partly under the pleura ipulmonalis at the root and summit of the right lung. * ” i^na^Tn*e ^^hologique,” vol. i. p. 247. ■* u Morbid Anatomy of the Serous Membranes,” vol. i. p. 137.THE PATHOLOGICAL AX ATOMY OF THE ALIMENTAEY CANAL. CHAPTER XXXY. I. OF THE MOUTH AND FAUCES. Congenital malformations of the lips and cheeks are usually I associated with defects of the bony structures. Most of these mal- formations are of the nature of defective or arrested development , the parts being imperfectly formed, or stopping short at a low stage of development. The following varieties are enumerated by ^IgnatMa, or deficiency of the lower jaw. This is combined with imperfect development of the upper jaw. There is properly speaking, no lower part of the face, and the mouth is either absent or dosed posteriorly. This defect is incompatible with life, it is ^7. ProsoposcMsis, or fissure of the face. The face rumains asm its earliest stage of development, one large fissure ; the buccal ana nasal cavities are usually continuous ; the eyes frequently defect^e and the orbits involved in the large fissure. This defect is mcom uatible with life; it is not so very rare. , „ i- a 1 3 Cheilo-gnatho-palaio-schisis: Cleft palate, and Hare lip. - fissure exists in the upper lip, the upper jaw and the palate de^ pending on imperfect union of the superior maxillary bones mt The intermaxillaries, or of the palatine processes ^ Eissure of the lip may exist alone; it is then either unil.u » * .. Handbucli der Path. Anat.,” vot. ii. p. 1S “ Die MissbMungvn des Mensohen, pi. xxiv., xxv.535 INFLAMMATION OF THE BUCCAL MUCOUS MEMBRANE. ] Fissure of the palate may be unilateral or bilateral, and combined or not with fissure of lip and jaw bone : it may affect the hard or more often the soft palate alone, or both. That of the hard palate i is on one or both sides of the vomer, never in the median line ; that of the soft palate always median. Some degree of this defect is not uncommon, and quite compatible with life. A similar fissure of the lower lip and lower jaw is very rare. 4. Mikrognatliia, or Brachi/gnathia, deficient development or - small size of the jaws, is a very rare defect, usually affecting the . lower jaw. 5. Synchelia, or Atresia oris, complete closure of the mouth by adhesion of the lips ; or a very small opening may be left. 6. Mikrostomia, smallness of the mouth, which is formed by i small, but naturally-disposed lips. 7. Achelia, Mikrochelia, deficiency or small size of the lips, which expose the teeth or gums. 8. Makrostomia, prolongation of the corners of the mouth on one or both sides through the cheeks in the direction of the ears. INFLAMMATION. The buccal mucous membrane shows but little tendency to be . affected by catarrhal inflammation ; it is, however, often inflamed in one or more spots from some local irritation, or morbid action. ■ -Thus a carious tooth, a piece of diseased bone, a crop of herpetic ■ vesicles, will excite inflammation in their vicinity. In adults, gene- ral inflammation of the mucous membrane is sometimes produced by the abuse or excessive action of mercury, and shows a marked tendency to pass into a state of ulceration and sloughing. Nitrate of silver, iodide of potassium, and probably other drugs, may ha ve a similar effect. Mr. Tomes mentions the occasional occurrence of spontaneous * salvation, with considerable inflammation of the gums. Chronic ; filpamfaiation of the gums is not uncommon, and has appeared to us sometimes to be of a rheumatic origin. It may extend over the whole mouth, or be confined to the vicinity of two or three ■teeth. “The surface of the gums,” Mr. Tomes says, “becomes minutely nodulated; and the secretion of epithelium increased ; the papillae are increased in prominence, while the substance of the gum is generally thickened, and the edges about the teeth become thick and round.” ano^er form of so-called chronic inflammation, the gum lather decreases in size, and “ assumes a very smooth and polishod surface and mottled aspectthe hard palate also becomes impli- oated, and there is acute intermittent pain. Ulcerations often form n the gums as well as on other parts of the mucous membrane of ne buccal cavity; they are sometimos simple aphtha;, sometimes mall, round, slightly excavated, and without any surroundingCROUPOUS AND DIPHTHERITIC INFLAMMATION. 536 inflammation. In some cases the ulcerations are attended with much inflammation and swelling of the mucous membrane and subjacent tissues, and in others they are rather of a sloughy nature, and form upon a surface dark coloured by asthenic con- gestion. TUMOURS OF THE JAW. The term Epulis* has been generally but loosely used for any tumour of the gums not supposed to be cancerous. There are several different forms. One form of Epulis is a fibrous tumour which originates in the fibrous tissue of the gums, or in the perios- teum, aud not only grows outward towards the cavity of the mouth, but also penetrates into the Haversian canals and canceUi of the bone. Its surface is generally pretty smooth, “like the gum,” or it may be rough and more or less lobulated. “ Osseous spicuke, not uncommonly shoot,” according to Hr. Tomes, “from the jaw into the tumour, and in some cases isolated nodules of bone are found in the substance.” _ The last-mentioned fact we have several times observed. Spindle-celled sarcoma or “re- current fibroid ” has also been described under the same name; and again specimens of Sir J. Paget’s “ myeloid ’’ tumours come under this head. In all these cases (as pointed out by Mr. Hawkins) the growth springs from the bone or periosteum. Polypus of the gum is a local hypertrophy of its tissue, some- times'occasioned by mechanical irritation. It shows, “ on section, fibro-cellular tissue, covered by a thick layer of epithehura, and like polypi of mucous surfaces in general, is _ distinguished by the abundance of glands. Cysts may also form in the tumour. Yascular tumours, or Angiomata, consisting essentially ot dilated vessels, sometimes appear on the gums. Mr. Tomes describes one of a bright scarlet colour, soft in texture, and easily compressed and emptied of blood, and prone to bleed on slight irritation. Cancer, almost always in the form of scirrhus occasionally attacks the gums. Its size varies usually from that of a pea iO that of a nut. It ulcerates after a time and may throw out 1UT5^S£of herpes and the pustules of variola are occasion- ally developed upon the buccal mucous membrane. CROUPOUS AND DIPHTHERITIC INFLAMMATION. These two processes are by no means clearly distinguished 'when they affect the mouth. According to Forster they are usually found successively in the same case, the simple croupous process * Etna., <■« i = upon, oiAov = the gums.CROUPOUS AND DIPHTHERITIC INFLAMMATION. 537 passing into a necrotic or gangrenous form, which is diphtheria. Ordinary croup or stomatitis pseudo-membranacea is characterized by redness and swelling of the mucous membrane, followed by the formation (often very rapid) of yellowish or ash-coloured false membranes, which may attain a considerable thickness in the angle between the gums and the cheeks, or under the tongue. At first they are firmly attached, but soon become looser, and when removed, leave an injected, but not ulcerated surface. This may occur in limited patches or over a wide area. It may stop short at this stage or go on to a form more resembling diphtheria. This - disease may, it is said, be produced by local irritation, but is more commonly an extension of pharyngeal croup, or else the ac- companiment of some specific disease, such as measles, scarlatina, : erysipelas, &c. True diphtheria of the mouth is probably always a c manifestation of the constitutional infectious disease thus named, and may accordingly be transmitted by direct contagion. In its early stages it resembles the process just described, but the false membranes when removed, leave an excoriated surface which may be decidedly ulcerated, the whole epithelium being destroyed. . the colour of the exudation, which is naturally whitish, is often rendered darker by sanguineous effusion saturating it; when this sis the case its aspect, and the extreme fcetor which it exhales, ,:£i!v.e t° **• & considerable resemblance to a gangrenous slough, his resemblance is increased if the exudation be situated, as it sometimes is, beneath, and not upon the layer of epithelium. in such cases the process extending more deeply causes necrosis or gangrenous destruction of the whole thickness of the mucous -membrane, and even submucous tissue. The gums themselves Wtimately degenerate into a bad-looking, pulpy, sanious mass, amt the mucous membrane of the cheeks and fauces, underneath he exudations, is equally found converted into a friable, fetid ii f?’ r°r a fani! ■ sbmgh. The slough which separates then con- tls;su,° a3 as false membrane; and in some cases, hour. ( Pataena the throat, deeper parts, such as periosteum and [pf. e affected. If recovery take place, formidable scars are ]pJr, 7?ch may cause much injury by their contraction. Actual „ !“C!lve or„ necrotic processes are in fact, as before stated, ilw ‘n,g °f ■‘)lmilar affections of the throat, the only positive ildinm qHu mar^8 ofdiphtheria. Vegetable parasites, such as Of f)d r a.ns’ are °ft©n found in the gangrenous masses. iJBidemio r!ilmCal fuat1ul'os of the disease, we can only say that the veil Lr ° ‘K ynalulu character of the above described process is now enfi,.,i . Andral, writing more than twenty years ago, con- irst in JustlJ7 that tho congestion of the part affected, though he fli9p„ ■’ Was b,ut secondary in regard to causal agency: and aL°7 alwN” dred “4 iurim, tR ^ndral montions that blistered and all denuded surfaces cembl'anes^like^bo06 ,?Pltb>mics’ become covered with false ]lke those which form on mucous surfaces. Wounds538 ULCERATION OF THE MOUTH. and ulcers at such periods are found unusually inapt to heal, and all the experience of the juvantia and Icedentia, seems to testily that the local morbid process is extremely different from common in- flammation, and is essentially dependent upon a grave alteration ci the general system. ULCERATION OF THE MOUTH. Aphthce, Thrush, Mugud.—Aphtha: are small whity specks, some- times so closely set together that they coalesce and form patches, which may he very extensive. They separate after a time, leaving the mucous membrane beneath either simply excoriated or superficially ulcerated. After being detached they are often produced again, and this may occur several times in succession. The true nature a of this disease has been the occasion of much controversy, and there is not yet a perfect agreement on the subject. The patches - consist, there is no doubt, chiefly of clusters of the mycebum and spores of a microscopic fungus, the oidium albicans, found vary frequently in small quantities in the mouth even m health, and more abundantly in inflammatory or diphtheritic processes. It u only in the disease now under consideration that the fungus forms nearly the whole of the adventitious mass, which comams be^de only a few detached epithelial scales, beset with spores. It may thus be described as a growth of fungus upon the mucous surface. It has also been shown that it may be transferred by transplantation to the mouths of healthy children. It will not, however, AounJi unless there be some unhealthy state of the mucous me“^ane, and acidity appears to be the most important favouring condition ihe mucous surface of the mouth appears to be m new-born chfldron nlwavs acid even in health—a circumstance which accounts nr the facility with which the disease develops itself at that age; vhflej in older children, a very slight disturbance of nutation smxes^ bring about the conditions necessary for its development Thereu no doubt that the most frequent occasional cause of aphthae u to fermentation of portions of milk which remain m recesses of the mouth. It should be mentioned that the term mupuet %ap/wth' The French to the more extensive deposits of this kind. Badheaffh, indigestion, or abdominal disorders, are the precursors and attend ants°on aphthae. The whole of the buccal mucous membrane aPP - to be in a sS of asthenic inflammation, and the same conditior extends in some measure to the whole alimentaryrtra . - sometimes affected by aphthce as the result of invest!on - small circular ulcers tip and along the edges of the tongue. ourselves, and can scarce think they should be separate539 TTLCEEATIOST OF THE MOUTH. aphthae. According to him, they are produced by the effusion of lymph into one of the fungiform papillae, which soon disappears by sloughing or ulceration, leaving an ulcer which continues to spread for some time. Follicular Stomatitis is described by Dr. West as sometimes idio- pathic, sometimes a concomitant of measles. In either case it is rare, after five years of age. “The mouth is hot; its mucous membrane generally of a livid red, while a coat of thin mucus covers the centre of the tongue. On the surface of the tongue, especially near its tip on the inside of the lips, the cheeks, near the angles of the mouth, and less often in other situations, also, may be seen several small, isolated, transparent vesicles, or the ulcers, which, after bursting, they leave behind. The ulcers are small, of a rounded or oval form, not very deep, but having sharply cut edges; and their surface is covered by a yellowish white, firmly- adherent slough.” “ When the ulcers are healing, no change in their aspect is observable, and they continue to the last covered by the same yellow slough, but, by degrees, they diminish in size; and seldom or never is any cicatrix observable in the situation which they occupied. ’ The vesicles form in crops, not generally containing many ; the resulting ulcers sometimes coalesce and • r cori^mious patch. The affection is sometimes complicated with herpes of the skin of the lips, and might almost be considered as a similar eruption of the mucous surface. Ulcerative Stomatitis, or Gingivitis.—This disease which com- mences in the gums, is thus described by the same observer: “The glims are red, swollen, and spongy, and their edge is covered with a •firty white or greyish pultaceous deposit; on removing this their 1 sur,ace exposed, raw and bleeding. At first only the front of the tE™ 1S ?US but as the disease advances, it creeps round the teeth to their posterior surface, and then destroying the gum, tioth in front and behind them, leaves the teeth denuded, and very 1 l00se m their sockets. _ On those parts of the lips and cheeks, how- ever, which are opposite to, and consequently in contact with, the 1 .grated gums, irregular ulcerations form, which are covered ' vV Im^aceoils pseudo-membranous deposit, similar to that 1 wmch exists on the gums themselves. Sometimes, too, deposits of se membranes take place on other parts of the inside of the mouth, the surface beneath being red, spongy, and bleeding, thou»h pt distinctly ulcerated. . . . When recovery has commenced, the isease ceases to spread; the drivelling of footid saliva diminishes, 0 V1 , > Pultaceous deposit on the gums, or on the ulcerations of o cheek lips, becomes less abundant; the ulcers themselves ^ wies8; and, finally, the gums become firm,” and slowly, and rh's ap™ Partlal relapses, regain their healthy condition. The /ease is common, rarely fatal, rarely associated with, or proceed- •ing to, gangrene. gangrene of the Mouth; Noma ; Cancer aquaticus ; Ccmcrum Oris. 6 8anor°ne of the mouth is a much less froquont, and much more540 ULCERATION OF THE MOUTH. fatal affection. It is very seldom idiopathic, almost always occur- ring consecutively to measles or some other disease. Messrs- Iiilliet and Barthez found, out of twenty-nine cases, nineteen aged from two to five years, and ten aged from six to twelve. We again quote Dr. West’s description, which pictures very well the only case which we have witnessed ourselves. There is at first scarce any suffer- ing, and some unusual foetor of the breath, some profuse secretion of offensive saliva, and swelling of the cheek, are the first circum- stances which are observed. The characters of the swelling of the cheek are almost pathognomonic. It is not a mere puffiness, but is tense, red, and shining—looking “ as if its surface had been be- smeared with oil, and in the centre of the swollen part there is generally a spot of a brighter red than that around. The cheek feels hard, and is often so unyielding, that the mouth cannot be opened wide enough to get a good view of its interior. The disease is almost always limited to one side, and generally to one cheek. Occasionally it begins in the lower lip, never m the upper, but it may extend to either. “ Whatever be the situation of the external swelling, there will generally be found within the mouth, at a point corresponding to the bright red central spot, a deep excavaieu ulcer, with irregular jagged edges, and a surface covered by a dar - brown, shreddy slough. The gums opposite to the ulcer are ot_a dark colour, covered with the putnlage from its surface, andm part destroyed, leaving the teeth loose, and the alveoli denucte . Sometimes, especially if the disease be further advanced, no smg e spot of ulceration is recognizable, but the whole inside of the chee^ is occupied by a dirty putrilage, in the midst of which large shreds of dead mucous membrane hang down. As the disease extends within the cheek, a similar process of destruction goes on upon the a-um and the loosened teeth drop out one by one. The saliva con- tinues to be secreted profusely, but shows by the changes which take place in its character the progress of the disease. At first, though remarkable for its foetor, it is otherwise unaltered, but afterwards loses its transparency, and receives from the putiefymg tissues, over which it passes, a dirty, greenish, or brownish colour, and at the same time acquires a still more repulsive odour. \\ hue the gangrene is thus going on inside the mouth, changes no less remarkable are taking place on the exterior of the face. The ness and swelling of the cheek extend, and the deep lerlcmto spot grows larger. A black point appears m its midst, at hrsUtis but a speck, but it increases rapidly, still retaining a circu at -it attains the bigness of a sixpence, a shilling, a half-crown, o „ larger size. A ring of intense redness now encircles it, tne to extent!, and the slough begins to serarate. Death often takes place before the detachment of the eschar is com nlete and it is fortunate when it does so, for sloughing usually commences in the parts left behind. The interior of the mouth is now exposed, its mucous membrane and the substance of y hang down in shreds from amidst a blackening mass, whicfiMOBBED CONDITION'S OF THE TONGUE. 541 exhales a horrible fcetor. There is no acute pain throughout, the patient is generally rather drowsy, and death takes place quietly in most cases. ±^o cause has been assigned for the occurrence of - gangrene in this part, all that can be said is that a true mortifica- tion or death of the textures seems to take place, which is itself the primary evil, and not the result of inflammation, disease of the vessels, or obstruction of their channels. This is a good illustration ’ of tiie. doctrine we maintained, when speaking of mortification, viz., •• that it essentially consisted in a loss of the vital powers which maintain, in opposition to those of inorganic chemistry, the complex constitution of the animal tissues. MORBID CONDITIONS OF THE TONGUE. Microglossia Hypertrophy of the Tongue.—The tongue is liable to be aflected by an extraordinary hypertrouhic enlargement in consequence of which it protrudes from the mouth, sometimes’ as much as two and a half inches. The structure is altered, becoming- much more dense than natural. When examined microscopically" it shows no increase in the proper muscular tissue of the tongue’ Pso ^ 18 rather a case of false than of true hypertrophy 'The increase of bulk is chiefly due to the production of a large quantity ot ,hlShly vascular, nucleated connective tissue, which infiltrates and separates the muscular bundles. Beside this is seen a peculiar •cavernous structure, composed of a number of intercommunicating t. spaces. These spaces contain a clear fluid, apparently lymph and ' ^.corpuscles. They appear accordingly to be V ™tions of newly formed or pre-existing lymphatic voxels. We , 3® Seer\th,1S 3tructuro, whloh m described by Virchow and others ► With great clearness, m a case reported by Mr. Arnott.* in other cases a true cavernous tissue containing blood or something like a nsevus, is formed. Sometimes there is said to be andbfas.c1ular]^yPel'tr?Ph5’; The affection is sometimes congenital and is said to be occasionally connected with cretinism or idiocy Prnm' Ty th2 only occurs as the consequence of paralysis from drnsmn of the hypoglossal nerve, or attacks of hemiplegm it is of course confined to the affected side. 1 S icZ'TJ\the P^jfer-Dr- Saiter gives an interesting count of the morbid changos which the lingual papill n ^hdergo. The circumvallate papillae may be hypertrophied -1 l0™ llttle .tumours as large as peas. The epithelial °-i conicai or filiform papillae may become extra- |, fl‘rirtnly, elongated, so as to bo half an inch long; they are of ; ieStl Co!°ih’ and 0Xactly llk®.little brown hairs. ^ Minor lanill'B a ^1S condition aro, we think, not uncommon. The •apilhe sometimes becomes atrophied. “ Mr. Lawrence mentions * “Truui. Path. Soc.,” 1872, vol. xxiii. p. loe.MORBID CONDITIONS OF THE TONGUE. 542 the case of a person in whom, from habitual drinking, the tongue was, for the greater part of its surface, destitute of papilla; : it was white, smooth, and opaque on the surface.’ Llood and lymph may be effused into the substance of the fungiform papilla;, ihe fur which so commonly collects on the surface of the tongue in disease, consists of detached, and more or less disintegrate! | epithelium, with varying proportions of amorphous matter. Vie can corroborate Dr. Salter’s statement, that in some healtny persons the tongue is habitually furred In very'rare cases the freemim of the tongue is so short, that it is quite tied down t j the floor of the buccal cavity, and cannot perform its proper move- ments Minor degrees of the same condition are not infrequent, and gradually improve of themselves. In the opposite condition, “ the movements of the tongue are too free; it can be inerted, and its apex thrown back into the pharynx, which embraces it, and thus the access of air to the lungs through the gloto‘ The sides of the tongue have been known to become closely adherent to the internal surface of the cheeks. Inflammation—The tongue is liable to be affected by lnflamm - tion or glossitis, as it is termed. This m some rare cases, saidby Dr Salter to occur most often in scrofulous persons, causes the formation of abscess. On the matter being evacuated, the tongue speedily returns to a healthy state. Sometimes a partial inflammation o. the tongue is met with, the morbid process beum confined to the uortion°of the base bounded in front by the Y-shaped fine of J,■ .mvillate Danillse. It occurs as an extension of tonsillitu, SSlfSrfl notice. Deglutition in these case, u seriously interfered with. The inflammation of the is nroduced by mercury, sometimes involves the to c , occasions in some cases very great and rapid swelfrng^ It ' not seem to have ever produced suppuration. Dne vanety 01 glossitis has been distinguished by the term erectile by Dr Salten be°iesresoeto’ih'.h; mouth is quite is of a dark black colour, neither morfificatmu nor absc^ s I P - affected. In most cases it occurs m persons who are 1 health, and without any manifestexcitmg cause. t< from inerc . Severe and deep ulcerations of the tongue may nl..r^ons. - m depth, and sometimes m length only. 1C II suuicwi^vw Bhagades or fissures;543 1I0RBID CONDITION'S OF THE TONGUE. result from the same cause; they often occupy the median line in the front part of the organ; they may he mere cracks, or extend three-quarters of an inch in depth, with irregular ulcerated edges. 'Syphilitic tumours, which are described by Dr. H. Salter under the name of glossy tubercle, appear to be of the same nature as the syphilitic tubercles termed gummatci, found in various parts of the body. Ricord speaks of them as deep-seated tubercles of the sub- mucous areolar tissue. They are composed of the usual fibro- nucleated tissue, and tend after a time to degeneration and 'atrophy. Often they cause very destructive ulceration. Cancel .■ -The tongue is liable to be the seat of cancerous growths of the scirrhous and epithelial species. The former is described by Mi-. Travers as at first being an irregular rugged knob, generally situated in the anterior third, and midway between the raphe and one edge. Ulceration sometimes takes place very rapidly; the •.surface at the same time throwing out luxuriant fungous growths : ■in other cases it “is very uneven, clear and bright granulations appearing in parts, and in others deep and sloughy hollows.” In an interesting case of epithelial cancer, carefully watched by ‘Dr. H. Bennett, which may be taken as an instance of what is commonly seen, the first appearance of the disease was a small -ulcer on the margin of the tongue This extended, in spite of its being shielded from the pressure of the teeth, and had hard everted “■edges undermined some way by ulceration. These became more (•ragged, and here and there over tne surface some degree of sup- | puration and sloughing occurred. Much improvement followed lathe excision of the tumour—the wound healed favourably Not , long after, however, the glands under the jaws enlarged, and were • removed; and in about nine months after this, the disease re- ■ tinned in the tongue and proved fatal. The morbid growth which had. been removed, presented on a transverse section a tract of ■ white, indurated, infiltrated structure immediately below the ulcer, and above the muscular substance of the tongue. This indurated tract was half an inch thick posteriorly, and consisted 01 a fibroid structure enclosing debris of muscular fibre, and some “ tfie characteristic circular loculi of epithelial cancer. The surmcc of the ulcer was covered with papillary elevations, which intn fin d ctlefly of enlarged, softened, epithelial scales splitting n-iib T!Jre’ Sn “ ^ f0171 a klnd of frlnge’ as certain cells met mthnorrnaUy in deep layers of the epidermis. usi is the commonest form of cancer affecting the ton'mo Tn it i!awSt 11 Statccl to be a nodule below the surface, but m.a,° usually observed until the surface is broken, and the I j M growth appears as an ulcer, with raised edges and in- botb1!'1 biS°; nThe ui filtration and ulceration spread rapidly wen /S? “ d°pth’. til,V10t only a portion or iesh-nrU h ° ° tho toneue itself may be destroyed, but the no U l;°tPrOCO? ma£ mvo.lvo the gums> the fauces, and still e remote parts. Extension to the lymphatic glands takes544 MORBID CONDITIONS OF THE TONSILS. place almost constantly, and the connection may sometimes he traced in the form of white cords running downwards from the base of the tongue, which doubtless represent lymphatic vessels enlarged and infiltrated with cancerous growth. The microscopic structure is that usually seen in flat-celled epithelioma, the great mass of the tumour being made up of epithelial scales, often arranged in loculi, and forming the well-known concentric or birds’-nest bodies. The same strictly epithehal growth may be found infiltrating the tissues beyond the apparent limits of the tumour itself, and is produced also as a secondary formation m the infected lymphatic glands. In this, as in other situations where epithelioma occurs, the epithelial formations m deep parts appear to be in direct continuity with the surface epithelium which grows inwards, so as to infect the connective tissue and ^ Fatty tumours and simple cysts are occasionally met with in the tongue, and Dr. Salter mentions the occurrence of pedunculated polypoid growths, which seem to be of the nature of simple fibrous or fibro-cellular tumours. MORBID CONDITIONS OF THE TONSILS. Inflammation. —The tonsils are a common seat of inflammation and its consequences. In an acute attack they become swollen, sometimes enormously, so as to impede the respiration. The pillars of the fauces, and the soft palate, are also involved in the inflammation. Suppuration often occurs, and is, perhaps, the best result, next to complete resolution; but more frequently, the in. perfectly subdued hypersemia produces actual enlargement, and fresh attacks occurring, a chronic hypertrophy of the gland is the result. We have examined some enlarged tonsils which had been excised and found their structure to be quite identical with chat of the healthy gland, so that the alteration constituted a true hjSiructwIofthe Tonsils.—It seems worth while to noticebriefly this 150int which we think is not well understood, as it explains m some measure the liability of these parts to hypertrophic enlargement. They are made up of a number oi duplicates and involution> mucous membrane, which, however, is differently c°°"secS to what it is in other parts m the vicinity.. shows the thin surface-layer of scaly epithelium with a tiuck m derlying stratum, consisting of nuclei, or very slight y P cells of a lymphatic type, which are imbedded m a stroma or nei work of firm threads, so that the whole constitutes what m called “ adenoid,” lymphoid, or cytogenous connective - L Part I P- 153), such as is found under the epithehal layer m feveral parts of the intestinal tract. . This layer is travemedby vessels, which are of capacious size in hypertrophied specimens,545 MORBID CONDITIONS OF THE TEETH. r running up to the basement membrane which supports the layer of scaly epithelium. When there is any habitual hyperiemia, and c consequent exudation, this submucous tissue readily gives origin to a new formation of similar substance, and so the enlargement i continually goes on. The morbid condition which most resembles it is enlargement of the Peyerian patches, which we shall presently describe. This chronic hypertrophy may occur alone or else 11 associated with similar enlargement of homologous tissues in other I parts of the body, as the spleen and the lymphatic glands.* Induration not unfrequently occurs as the result of inflammation, and depends, beyond doubt, on a fibroid development of the exuda- tion. Kokitansky says, “In scrofulous subjects the tonsils are often affected, in addition to hypertrophy and habitual hypenemia, with a peculiar hlennorrhoea, and the purulent secretion not un- frequently becomes inspissated, so as to form tubercular cheesy plugs, or even chalky concretions. These, in their turn, keep up a perpetual state of irritation in the tonsils.” Cancerous disease is veiy laie m this situation, hut common indurated enlargement has often been spoken of as scirrhus. Tubercle is extremely rare :in the tonsils. II.—MORBID CONDITIONS OF THE TEETH. The brief summary that we shall give of these conditions is i taken from the excellent work of Mr. Tomes on the subject, to which we must refer for fuller information. Malposition of'the r other teeth is scarce more than a disfigurement, hut when the Bf wisdom teeth take a wrong direction the effects produced are sometimes very mischievous. Those of the lower jaw cause more serious evil by their wanderings than those of the upper. Some- luunes the tooth, though not deviating from its proper position, is luaia down by indurated gum. Esquirol mentions a case in which nental derangement depended on this cause. The wisdom tooth nay take a false direction inward or outward, and cause, by its I uessure, ulceration of the tongue or the cheeks. It may grow Ifirectly forwards against the posterior surface of the second molar : lad Prove(l the source of severe pain, resisting all treatment | l that °* extracting the offending tooth. Lastly, the tooth may uvance against the coronoid process, causing disease and necrosis the bone, and inflammation and abscess in the surrounding i arts. ° l n^\e ar° vei7 hable to caries, which is an affection very | hen of the same kind, as that occurring in bones. Mr. Tomes ■! “fv, “ tte dentine, from abnormal (nutritive) action, loses I .mi ,ty anc*- therewith becomes liable to be decomposed by the j" as of the mouth. It seems necessary that both conditions f Jlxwp.aro (described “cancer”) by Dr. Moxon: “Trans. Path. Soc.,’’ 18G9, N NMORBID CONDITIONS OP THE TEEIH. 34(3 should exist, that the tissue should he dead, and that the oral fluids should be in an acid state, capable of dissolving it. lest paper applied to carious teeth almost invariably shows the presence of free "acid. Healthy saliva is alkaline, while that of dyspeptic nersons is prone to be acid, and it is in such that caries is most apt to occur. The enamel is, of course, first affected, but a very small perforation through this tissue may exiot with a considerable amount of disease in the subjacent dentine. It appears that when the acid solvent has once penetrated to the surface of the dentine, it extends laterally under the enamel, destroying, extensively perhaps, the body of the tooth, and undermining and eroding the enamel on its attached surface. The destructive process does not go on nearly so fast in the fang, which seems to possess a higher degree of vitality than the crown. A most interesting observation of Mr. Tomes demonstrates completely tbe vital nature of the actions going on in the dentine under the influence of disease. He shows that when a portion of dentine has become dead it is circumscribed by the consolidation of the adjacent living tissue. “The tubes become filled up, they are rendered solid, and the circulation is cut off from the dead mass by the obliteration ot the tubes.” It is remarkable, “ that the consolidation does not go on gradually from without inwards, keeping in advance of the decay, but occurs at intervals.” It is formed also in successive fines a second one being produced when the first begins to be attached, and afterwards a third, when the second gives way. The con- solidated zones vary in width and in completeness, probably according to the vigour of the conservative action. Another interesting exhibition of vital action is displayed m the production of secondary dentine by the surface of the pulp, under the excite- ment of caries in the contiguous tissue. This vascular papilla, originally the formative organ of the dentine, which had for years - confined its action to nourishing the perfected structure, under tne ■ stimulus of disease renews its formative action, and throws out SUmULUH OI UlStJcbOt, 1CHCWO J.UO a barrier between itself and the advancing mischief. How ven a earner ueuweeu nauu —o r ,, ' analogous is this to the throwing out of lymph on the outer surface of a hollow viscus which is threatened with ulcer- P8 The'1 structure of secondary dentine is not so perfect as the original, and it is commonly vascular. Under the mcros^e “ a transverse section of carious dentine, rendered soft. tilage, from the loss of its lime, presents a cribriform appearance- The tubuli are much enlarged and irregular in outline, * i c » entirely from their normal shape. This indicates that thesolvei _ enters the tubes, and dissolves, first, their walls, a^d , the intertubular material. In the consolidated zone= obliterating the tubes is first removed, and afterwards their wans obliterating tne tubes is nrst removeu, ; oftell and the intervening tissue. A confervoid grov th 1 > and the intervening tissue, .-v them, seen on carious teeth, and on the tartar that imp ‘ ■ nes Imperfect formation of tho enamel is a frequent cause o547 MORBID COUDITIOKS OP THE TEETH. PiQ. 125. It is mostly deficient on the surface, presenting deep pits with the ■ intervening structure well developed; sometimes, however, small cavities exist in its substance, while the rest is perfect. Deep narrow fissures are often met with extending from the free surface ■ to within the y-J-gth of an inch of the dentine; the enamel forming the walls of these is in parts perfect, in parts imperfect. Not only may the enamel he deficient, but it may he also imper- fectly formed in various parts. The columns of fits pulp consist of cells and granules, which, normally, become lost and fused in the homo- : geneous fibre; sometimes this fusion does not take place, and the granules remain, giving the oenamel fibre a permanently granular aspect; or the cells do not undergo their wonted arrange- 1 ment and elongation, and thus, though they calcify, do not form fibres. Sometimes the fibres of the enamel are not perfectly united at their margins; the resulting interspace may either ap- pear as a broad line, or as a series of minute cells. The teeth are subject not only to decay, but to death, to necrosis, which may be either complete or partial. After this has occurred certain physical changes commence. “ The tooth gradually assumes a darker hue than natural, which increases in intensity till it is almost black. The dental periosteum gradually detaches itself from the fang, the tooth becomes loose, and unless held in by the crooked form of the roots, drops out. The surface of the ■tangs is generally rough, and, near the neck, dotted over with nodules of hard cream-coloured tartar, while the ends of the roots often look worm-eaten, as though absorption had commenced.” ■Mr. Tomes compares the process of necrosis of a tooth with that which occasions the shedding of the antlers of a deer. In both the minute tubes or cavities through which nutrient fluid is conveyed ■oecoine obliterated by calcareous deposition; the whole tissue [ ■,emn consolidated into an inorganic mass. The dead tooth acts r is a foreign body, causing inflammation and suppuration of the i cental periosteum, as well as absorption of the latter, the alveolus, l^nclgums. More serious effects are occasionally produced, “the Jenosteum of the alveoli becomes inflamed, together with the Drawing- of tooth attacked by caries, with barrier of se- condary dentine. icighbouring parts: ” and, if the case be still neglected, the ad- dining teeth are not unfrequently lost, and necrosis of a consider- rne part of the jaw may also result. In some instances where ! no death of the tooth has taken place gradually patches of newlv- ormed cemeutum, thrown out by the irritated dental periosteum mere closely to the latter, and thus the tooth is held in its place' ! ^yle spot of necrosis in the fangs may cause inflammation and •oscess and such severe pain, that the tooth, though otherwise , Ute h,iaUhy> ^ obliged to be removed. “ Instances a™548 MORBID CONDITIONS OF THE TEETH. uncommon when the pulp of the tooth has died while the external surface of the fang has preserved its vitality. In these cases the deutine becomes discoloured, and gives a general dark appearance to the tooth. One of the three fangs of a molar tooth may alone Fig. 126. Imperfect formation of Enamel. (Erom Mr. Tomes work.; a. Enamel, b. Dentine, c. A perforation in the enamel, d. A cribriform lavei of tissue in the enamel, e. A large cell lying transverse to the enamel bores, f. in the enamel about the apices of the coronal dentine, g. Lines ot minme between the enamel fibres. be affected by necrosis, or the disease may he confined to one side of a single fang, producing absorption of the gum and alveolus on* that side.” ,, The layer of osseous tissue, called cementum, which coats fangs of the teeth, is liable to become hypertrophied. _ This may proceed to such an extent that the fang near its extremity may_oe twice the diameter of the neck. It results from irritation ot tn dental periosteum, which may itself he occasioned by canes, or necrosis of the tooth. The enlarged fang necessarily compresses and irritates the nerves which pass through the orifice at its ex tremity to the pulp; and this irritation may he the cause epileptic seizures, or paroxysms of neuralgic pain, -he ian0 the teeth are occasionally absorbed to a greater or less exten , 4 some rare instances to the same extent that those of the tempo , j teeth are. The dental pulp, a highly sensitive and delicate s r ture, is very liable to he affected by severe pain from the untMgg of caries in the tooth, or even from disease ol the pulp 0 • adjacent tooth, or one situated on the opposite side or even m other jaw. This is an excellent example of the reflection nations. Inflammation often attacks, the dental pulp, c • e ■‘ its natural pinkish-grey colour to a bright scarlet, and ter jj very commonly in its suppuration and death. Sometn549 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE PHARYNX. there exists an opening, formed perhaps by caries, into the pulp cavity, the inflammation affects onlya part of the pulp. This is intelligible, from the circumstance that the secreted matter has a : channel of exit, and does not diffuse itself over the rest of the pulp, and also because the irritation of the oral fluids and of the carious dentine is confined to the adjacent part of this structure. The inflammation, after having caused the destruction of the pulp, may extend to the dental periosteum and occasion the death of the fang; it may even extend further to the periosteum of the jaw, and propuce necrosis of the bone. The dental pulp may be re- moved by absorption after the cavity of the tooth is laid open by caries, or it may ulcerate or perish from gangrene. Or again, it may become the seat of a fungoid growth, not of cancerous nature, which is sometimes termed polypus. The dental periosteum may be inflamed acutely or chronically. When the former takes place it causes the periosteum to separate to a greater or less extent from the surface of the fang, leaving a cavity which is occupied by pus. The cavity becomes enlarged at the expense of the alveolus, and this chiefly at the apex of the flatter. Sometimes the pus makes its way into the mouth at the meek of the tooth, having detached the periosteum up to that point, but more commonly the abscess advances through an open- ing in the alveolus into the gum, whence it ultimately makes its way to the surface. In unhealthy states of system the disease may involve the bone adjacent, and cause necrosis to a consider- able extent; or it may creep on and affect the periosteum of con- tiguous teeth. The inflammation rarely arises spontaneously ; most often it is the sequel of inflammation of the pulp. In the .chronic form there is no tendency to the formation of abscess, but there may be a slight discharge of pus from the edge of the gum. f “ The tooth becomes loose, the alveolus absorbed, and the edge of t the gum inflamed. The gum gradually sinks with the absorption I of the alveolus, and the tooth drops out or is removed.” Some- ! times partial chronic inflammation occurs, causing “ the periosteum about the extremity of the tooth to become thickened and nodu- lated.” The alveoli are liable to necrosis from various causes as other bone is; they undergo absorption in old age naturally, and • sometimes prematurely in persons who have been subjected to long-continued salivation, or whose gums have been rendered un- 1 naturally vascular by other causes ; and lastly, they are sometimes the seat of exostosis, which gradually, as it increases, extrudes the tooth. III.—ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE PHARYNX AND {ESOPHAGUS. Congenital Malformations.—This part of the alimentary cana may be congenitally absent, or may terminate in a csecal pouch,550 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE PHARYNX, or be fused with the trachea, or be dilated into a sac, or in rare instances be traversed by separate fissures. The latter condition has been called fistula colli congenita, and has been attributed to imperfect closure of the third or fourth visceral cleft. The fistula opens externally, at the inner border of the sterno-mastoid muscle. Dilatation.—The pharynx and oesophagus sometimes become dilated throughout, their parietes, and especially the muscular tunic, being hypertrophied. Bokitansky alludes to one case in which the passage was large enough to admit a man’s arm. In some instances of a less degree of dilatation, the coats are relaxed and attenuated. This is sometimes a consequence of obstruction at the cardiac orifice of the stomach, but sometimes occurs without any obstruction, apparently from paralysis of the muscular walls, produced by chronic inflammation. Partial dilatation appears in the pouches, which sometimes are formed by all the coats of the canal, sometimes consist of the mucous membrane only. In the latter case, 1 ‘ the mucous membrane is protruded between the muscular fibres, and becomes dilated by the food that enters , it is at last forced out in the shape of a cylindrical appendix, which lies between the vertebral column and the oesophagus, in a line with the axis of the pharynx, so that all ingesta pass into it, and death from starvation results.” This change is chiefly seen at the lower part of the pharynx, but similar dilatations are formed lower down in the oesophagus, and are produced, according to Bokitansky, by the contraction of bronchial glands, which have formed adhesions to the wall of the oesophagus and draw a portion of it outwards. The most remarkable cases of dilatation °1 the oesophagus are, however, those in which no obstruction or other cause can be found. , ,, The oesophagus is liable to be constricted, either by the compres- sion of external growths or by cicatrices in its own walls, the results of former ulceration or sloughing, or by cancerous to» tions in its coats. A very obstinate form is the consequence ot the action of irritant or caustic substances. . , Inflammation.—Acute inflammation occasionally attacks me pharynx, or rather its mucous lining, chiefly by extension ot the disease in Cvnanche tonsillaris, or simultaneously with the fauces in Scarlatina anginosa. Sometimes the affection, though men generally less acute, is independent, and constitutes L\nanch pharvngea. Inflammation of the submucous connective tissue or cellulitis, occurs most often in children, and goes on to suppuration, forming the retropharyngeal abscess. It is sometimes connec et with caries of the vertebras, and does not then, strictly speaking, belong to the pharynx. Chronic pharyngitis is very common, espe- cially in persons of an atonic habit, or who speak much born throat. The mucous membrane appears slightly swollen, anr wi an uneven granular surface, coloured by an iiniform redness, a denuded to some extent of its investing epithelium. & m®. cases the redness is more patchy, and seems to affect mABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE PHARYNX. 551 small veins and adjacent capillaries, and is of a darker tint. M. Chomel has described one form of this alfection, in which the mucous follicles are specially the seat of morbid action. He says the arch of the palate is seen to be covered by small red points, which are more thickly disseminated on and near the uvula. These become more numerous and larger as the disease advances, till at length they run into each other, forming ridges and raised patches, between which only a small part of the mucous membrane retains its natural appearance. It occurs much more frequently in males than females, and chiefly between the fifth and seventeenth years. Croupy inflammation sometimes extends to the pharynx and commencement of the oesophagus, and, on the Continent at least, diphtheritic exudations are by no means infrequent in this situation. They are essentially similar to those which form on the buccal mucous surface, which have been already described. The pustules of variola are occasionally met with in the pharynx, and those which are caused by large doses of tartar emetic, in the lower third of the oesophagus. Fibrous tumours originating in the submucous or deeper-seated areolar tissues may grow inward, and obtaining an investment of mucous membrane hang down into the oesophagus in the form of a polypus. Sometimes they remain without thus protruding, in the submucous tissue. Tuberculous disease is very rarely found in the pharynx or oesophagus. Cancer is more frequent in the oesophagus than in the pharynx, in the proportion of thirteen to four; in the former it mostly affects the upper part just below the larynx ; in both parts it almost always assumes the form of infiltrated scirrhue, trom an ulcerated basis of which soft fungoid growths may after- wards sprout. In the pharynx, according to Dr. Waishe, it generally presents, at least in the early period, “ a hard imperfectly circumscribed mass,” which may form a tumour visible externally. In the oesophagus it mostly constitutes an annular layer, constrict- ing the canal for a variable distance, and often by extending outward producing adhesion of the diseased mass to the spinal column. We have observed one instance in which encephaloid cancer in this situation had proceeded to a considerable extent without producing any symptoms. In the oesophagus of a man who died with peritonitis there was a thick mass of encephaloid, ulcerated on the surface surrounding the lower part of the canal just above the cardiac orifice of the stomach for an inch and a half. It had evidently originated in the submucous tissue, and grown inward, not contaminating the other coats. Higher up there were several smaller submucous tumours. Rokitansky men - tions the formation of ulcerated openings communicating with the trachea and the bronchi, or even with the aorta and the right pulmonary artery. Epithelioma of the pharynx hardly occurs excopt in connection with the same disease in the mouth, and propagated from there.ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE PERITONEUM. 552 In the oesophagus, on tho other hand, it is comparatively frequent, and according to the unanimous testimony of recent observers much more frequent than encephaloid or scirrhus, with ulcerated forms of which it has doubtless been confounded. According to Lr. Wilks, it is most often found opposite to the bifurcation of the trachea, where it forms a long cancerous ulcer, some three or four inches in length, with raised edges, the surrounding mucous surface being sound. Sometimes it involves the whole circumference of the tube, but if not, then the disease is always more advanced on the anterior wall. The disease is almost always quite local, affect- ing only the parts immediately adjacent and the neighbouring lymphatic glands, but we have seen secondary growths in the liver in some cases. Round Ulcers.—Simple round ulcers of the oesophagus resembling the round ulcers of the stomach, and like these, owing their form and other peculiarities to the action of the gastric fluid, are met with, though rarely, at the lower end of the tube. _ _ I Post-mortem Softening— The lower part of the oesophagus is liable to softening from the action of the gastric fluid after death, which attacks especially the left side, which adjoins the left pleura, and occasions perforation and effusion of the contents of the stomach into this serous cavity. It is often associated with similar soften- ing of the stomach, but may occur independently. IY.—ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE PERITONEUM. Congenital deficiencies in the peritoneum will, of course, exist when any of the viscera which it invests are absent, or imperfect, or when the walls of the abdominal cavity are in a like state. It appears also that the various folds may of themselves be imperfectly developed, e.g., the omentum or mesentery may be unnaturally small or absent. On the other hand, these same folds may be of unusual dimensions, as when a mesentery of more than common length allows the intestines to float up to the surface of an abdomen distended by ascites. Certain pouches, which may by enclosing and incarcerating portions of intestine produce hernia, like those of the external diverticula of the peritoneum, have been described especially by Treitz. He distinguishes the fossa diiodeno- jeiunalis, formed by the side of the aorta, near the origin of the inferior mesenteric artery by a fold of peritoneum surrounding the duodeno-iejunal flexure ; the fossa intersigmoidea formed on the under surface of the mesocolon of the sigmoid flexure: and the fossa subcrecalis formed by a separation of the layers of the meso- colon belonging to the ascending colon, and thus lying behind the Ut The first-mentioned condition is the commonest of the three, it has been in some cases the cause of hernia and fatal obstiuc 1ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE PERITONEUM. 553 We have seen an instance of the last in which three such pouches ■ were formed one above the other between the mesocolon and the abdominal wall, but had given rise to no symptoms though they contained coils of ileum. * ° J Peritonitis. The peritoneum is extremely liable to inflammation which may be of various degrees of acuteness, or may be chronic ub initio. The former is extremely common, and results not only from all causes of irritation applied to it, but also originates spontaneously; or, as Eokitanskv avers, in consequence of the rheumatic poison. The inflammation varies much in extent, very .roften it is general, affecting the whole membrane, but often also it is partial, confining itself to a certain region. The simplest mstance of partial peritonitis which we can take is, perhaps, that which occurs when an ulcer is making its way through the walls of the intestine, and threatening to perforate them. Opposite the threatened spot a patch of injected vessels appears on the serous membrane, which pour out a fibrinous exudation forming a protecting investment, or an adherent medium uniting it to [ adjacent parts. Inflammation, however, when set up at one part is very prone, as m all serous membranes, to propagate itself to the | .surrounding ; and thus it very commonly happens that peritonitis, I which commences in one locality over an inflamed or irritated i.irgan, diffuses itself over the whole membrane till it becomes fiT -thfl Gariy pCr\0d mJected vessels are very distinctly ^ m.flamed membrane, forming streaks or patches of edness. The injection however, is seldom very strongly marked, except m the spaces formed by adjacent loops of bowel, which ■Lk^r!iapS’ drnu-m- to the readiness with which exudation Itt P i i ldlS 18 .otten seen as a delicate thin layer of fibrinous ™ni°rfffe y-lnVeStl^g inflamed sui'face, sometimes it is so canty that it is scarcely discernible, unless the surface is carefully mraped or adjacent intestinal convolutions are separated from acn other, when it appears as minute filaments stretching across ^ “.‘‘“‘“/IW sometimes colled “ £ irrows between convolutions of intestines pressed together, and is thene than elsewhere. In instances of severe nd nZh * -r® lnflammatory products are often very abundant uid^a hi purlform118 mmgled with the fibrinous matter. Serous ,n(i. i'l ,S0 T.p0tUyGd often m considerable abundance, and is XS hJ flakr and molecules of fibrine and pus cor un ‘ dplscd throughout it. In peritonitis attacking persons meralVpre^omfna'e!0 **'* ^ S6r0U8 and pUri&rm p™duct8 6aSe Wltd wilich inflammation of the peritoneum l PT-, 3ti UPf ,exPenmentally, it has beon specially studied as i example of inflammation in general. Peritonitis set up byINFLAMMATION OF TILE PEBITONEL'M. 554 rupture of the intestine appears to resemble precisely that produced experimentally by injecting irritating substances ; and may be taken as a type of acute inflammation. In such a case we find, beside hyperaemia, emigration of blood corpuscles, and production of fibrin, germinative changes, especially in the endothelial plates (Pig. 8, page 89). These appearances seem, however, to be similar to what may he normally seen in the peritoneum, differing from these chiefly in their greater intensity. Adhesions.—Adhesions are very often found in the peritoneum, connecting the visceral and parietal layers together, and are some- times of considerable length ; in many instances, no doubt, they are the result of partial inflammations giving rise to fibrinous exudation, which is afterwards transformed into areolar tissue; in other cases we are inclined to think the growth takes place with little or no preceding hypersemia, and appears to be effected by the same natural germinative process to which we have already alluded, and which is also the cause of the gradual thickening and shortening seen in the omentum with advancing age. The _ 9 -i 1 J I'Ll J Vi-rr ftffiisinn illlU. SitUi OULU o-xj. uxxw _ . i.1 inflamed membrane becomes somewhat thickened by the enusion taking place in its own texture. Bands of adhesion sometimes become the cause of fatal incarceration of the intestine, an opening : bom" formed by these means, into which a coil of intestines pa>-e?. and after a time having become distended, is strangulated by the abnormal band. A case of this kind is recorded m the report of the Pathological Society, 1851-52, in which seven or eight inches - of the lowest part of the small intestine were strangulated by a ring formed by a strong fibrous band passing from the mesentery to the anterior surface of the rectum. , J Suppuration, as has been said, is not (infrequently a result ol acute peritonitis, the purulent matter-being, as it were, smeared all over the surface of the membrane; sometimes, however, it tahte I place in a single part, and forms a circumscribed abscess. On opening the abdomen of a female who had been attacked with peritonitis after the operation of ovariotomy, and whosmwived j several weeks after the inflammation had been suodued there were found not onlv traces of lymph on the surface of the intestines, but a quantity of'well-formed pus in the interior of a cavity formed by. adjacent convolutions. Had life been prolonged the Pu , F have made its wav by ulceration into the mtesanal tube, an been evacuated. 'Rokitansky in mentioning this occurrence spea^ j of the abscess sometimes discharging itsell through t ‘ parietes, or opening this way as well as into the a fistulous communication with the bowel is the resul . discharges sometimes take place from the umbilicus. . cuated, pus sometimes becomes shut off or encysted m sj?e ‘ ^ ' tions of the peritoneum, such as between the liver and diaphr. or in either inguinal region; and we have become con^nced that m such cases absorption of the solid portions of ttopn ay place, only serous fluid remaining in a thick-walle i . -INFLAMMATION OF THE PERITONEUM. 555 with fibrinous flakes, as happens also in limited empyema or in • softening of the brain. The intestines are very commonly distended by gas in acute peri- tonitis, which has been thought to be secreted by the mucous membrane under the influence of irritation, but is possibly derived from decomposition of the intestinal contents (p. 72). At the - same time there is reason to believe that the action of the muscular fibres is more or less interfered with, if they are not actually para- i Ijzed, and hence the distension being unopposed is greater than it otherwise would be. Kokitansky says that “haemorrhagic exuda- • tion is frequently seen on the peritoneum; it forms large, satu- rated coagula, disposed in thick layers.” Chronic peritonitis of a simple kind is not of common occur- - rence; a case is, however, recorded by Andral in which serum turbid with albuminous flocculi was found in the serous cavity after death, while ascitic effusion had existed for more than the ast month of life, unattended with pain or any evident symptom 1 of inflammatory action. We think we have seen a somewhat - sum ar case. There is, however, another form of what may, per- . haps, be termed chrome peritonitis, though we doubt very much its essential dependence on any inflammatory process. It is essentially partial occurring only on the serous coverings of certain organs. ' JvW I,'6 S<rUS SU/(aC? 18 invested closely for a greater or less xtent by a firm, whitish, false membrane, which can be pretty easily detached from the subjacent peritoneum, and appears, when held up to the light, of much thinner texture in some spots than in otters. The situation in which the false membrane is most com- pletely formed is upon the surface of the liver, to which it forms ometimes a complete capsule, compressing and atrophying it, and i bW,?Au1Se t0wi?ltef fl'°m mterferen°e with the free passage of the : blood through the structure of the gland. 1 8 • Jw?Ular Flriton^ia-—One of the best marked varieties of chronic Kei^tlS 18 t.ha^1wli1lch is often justly called “tubercular,” from CITS 7 dependent on the presence of tubercles in the peritoneum. These appear sometimes as semi-transparent grey - granulations, sometimes are more opaque, though still of miliarv m thro^W the “S A,"0,"1,'1 by Dt' West to >'» >""« «»««. on neLhbourL thvdlap,llragrn’,or 011 the abdominal walls in the j f of the spleen, while the parietal peritoneum is not somethin aS r Partt The ohief tubercular product is -.-.an, mes m t le omentum, and may assume the form of yellow h k 0Uf masses. Inflammatory irritation is produced bv the andf air aCtlng aS f°reign bodies, exudation of lymph takos place and adhesions are formed between adjacent parts of the serous )therCv WhlCh ar * °ften 80 close and dense that tho intestines or >ach other™ wVl™ m makl,nvf an attempt to separate them from vav ent l 1een the whole of the serous sac in this y entirely obliterated. There is usually some serum in the556 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE PERITONEUM. peritoneal cavity, but no punform matter, unless, as occasionally happens, acute inflammation has supervened upon the chrome and proved fatal. The tuberculous material sometimes undergoes softening, as in other situations, and the extension of this process may cause perforation of the walls of the intestines, and either establish unnatural communications between distant parts which have become adherent together, or lead to the effusion of the intestinal contents in the serous cavity. The latter event, hjv- ever is more likely to be produced by the softening of tubercle in v ’ J the submucous tissue, since Fig. 127 UUU 7 it is often simultaneously pre- sent there as well as in the mesenteric glands. There is no relation apparently between the amount of deposit in the peritoneum, and in these two other localities. The lungs and bronchial glands are often tu- berculous when the perito- neum is affected, but often in a much less degree, and they may sometimes be altogether exempt. Rokitansky describes^ the muscular tunic of the in- testines as being still more affected in this disease than m acute peritonitis ; it becomes pale, is easily lacerated and broken up. This gives a further reason why laceration often oc- curs on attempting to separate the intestines which are matted together. Miliary tubercle of the omentum, and changes in surrounding parts. a, Tubercle completely formed. b, Cluster of small cells forming an in cipient tubercle. d, Proliferation of endothelium. The acute form of this com plaint is usually, if not invan ably, either subsequent to somt chronic form of tubercular oi degenerative inflammatory dis- ease elsewhere, or a part o general acute tuberculosis. Jh< chief features of the disease an the production of grey miliar tubercles in large numbers and should its course be somewhat mg sions between adjacent surfaces. _ The mass& oi g y & ~ may attain a very considerable thickness wi ,-enerillv? tha caseous transformation. In fact, it may be s S h - th;U tubercle in the peritoneum has a tendency to b bio us rat to caseous change. From an original preparation (“ Trans. Path. Soc.” vol. xxi. p. 198, pi. v.).557 ABNORMAL CONDITION'S OF THE PERITONEUM. Condition of Peritoneum in Ascites.—The peritoneum often ap- pears somewhat thickened, of a dull, dense, whitish sodden aspect in cases of chronic ascites. We have examined the membrane thus altered, but were unable to find any very marked alteration in texture, only that the tissue seemed more granular and less purely _ fibrous than natural. A local change of somewhat the ' same kind is often seen in the peritoneal covering of the liver and ■ the spleen. In these it forms dense whitish patches, which shade off gradually at their margins, and are for the most part quite free from hands of adhesion on the surface. The change in the splenic capsule is often so great that it has been termed i' cartilagimfica- tion.” When the exudation, which in all these cases takes place : into the subserous tissue, contracts and draws the part together, ■ it produces “ lobulated lamime, and projecting granulations,” of a firm, dense structure. Calcareous matter is sometimes deposited m these fibrous formations, and gives rise to “compact, smooth or uneven lobulated plates of varying thickness.” It appears fifrom Bokitanskv’s account, that false membranes, the result of inflammation, may be so disposed as to form serous cysts, which obtain an internal smooth lining, and are either pedunculated or - sessile on the peritoneum. Cancer, or some form of malignant growth, attacks the peritoneum cnmn irniwr imnn rtrt r-^ 71 1 1 I ni 1 -*■ J ^ u-i/tauixo tuo utjiituueum : m some very rare cases primarily, but most often by an adjoining t growth extending to it, “perforating it, and penetrating into its cavity Ihe disease is sometimes of the Encephaloid variety but more often of the Colloid. The latter, when the process of develop- ■ -ment is acute is often spread over the entire serous surface, in the • lorn of small, miliary nodules, in some parts clustered together. • Sometimes it occurs as a layer of areolar cancerous tissue, vary- mg in thickness, or as a circumscribed, round, lobulated aggrega- tion. The omentum is very commonly found to shrivel up and to degenerate into a transverse band ; or, in the opposite case, with an enormous increase of size into areolar cancer.” This generalized •cancer of the peritoneum may occur either in consequence of the Bursting of a softened .tumour in some adjacent organ, when the ■•mail growths appear as if sown over the surface; or else by .xtensum without any actual softening or distribution of material ■ n winch case the peritoneal growth is usually more local We mve seen a cystic sarcoma cause by rupture into the peritoneal the growth of hundreds of small tumours on its suface Sar =ousgrowthsnot uncommonly originate in the post-peritoneal mar tissue just in front of the spine. In this part they are • y adherent to tho vertebra;; are of homogeneous (probablv scirrhous) texture, and confounded with the crura of the rnll^T; iIn. lts periPheral parts the Ri-owth has a more loose nass froUiateid 8trU?T- ■lJr- Walshe'. Progress of thl o il,! ? lts Point of origin, says, “it spreads upwards, extends amma. ShfvJ’1'68868 Uuder th? llver’. Ponetrates between the Wco of the transverse mesocolon, twists round the duodenum558 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE STOMACH. and. pancreas, and, pushing forward the stomach (with the small curvature of which it contracts adhesion), forms a tumour in the epigastrium. Such tumours mould themselves upon these various parts and organs in so close a manner, that, after separation, the surface of the mass retains the impressions of the adjoining viscera.” The course of these growths, though rapid, is olten lor a long period unattended with pain or disturbance of the system* Primary malignant tumours ot the peritoneum are general!}, 11 not always, sarcoma. V,—abnormal conditions of the stomach. Congenital Abnormalities.— In very imperfect monstrosities, especially the acephalous, the stomach is either wanting, or very imperfectly developed. It is also absent occasionally, according to Rokitansky, in individuals otherwise normally built, and pro- vided with a well-developed intestinal tube; or it may be only indicated by a small saccular dilatation of the oesophagus. Variations in Shape and Size.— The s/iape of the stomach is some- times found remarkably altered; its cavity being partially divided into a cardiac and pyloric portion by an annular contraction, or even still further subdivided into three or four sacculi, so as to present some resemblance to the multiple stomachs of ruminants. These peculiarities of shape may either result from congenital malformation, or at Least in their minor degrees from contractions of the muscular coat or from destruction of. and subsequent cicatrization. Sometimes the stomach deviates from its usual shape, in the way of assuming greater simplicity , h is 'destitute of its cardiac cul-de-sac, and the msopliageal opening is quite at its left extremity. . . 1 The stomach is liable to great variations of size; these within certain limits are physiological, and are manifestly con plated in the peculiar convoluted disposition of its mucous ,g- j I healthy stomach, when empty, naturally contracts upon dsdf- and this to such au extent that its cavity is well nigh obht^ted. This is purely the effect of the unopposed action of its ^iscutar coat and is no evidence of disease in the viscus. It may pro- ceed’ from starvation, or from stricture of the oesophagus, traction of the cavity of the stomach m a less de fo . be produced by hypertrophy, anil cancerous ^^e °f co^; or by the cicatrization of extensive ulcers. Partial or glass” contraction is attributed to tight-lacing Dilatation of the stomach, often to a oonB^nab - ^ > of very common occurrence, and depends partly o P production of gas, and partly on loss of contractile p.ower^m its muscular fibres. In its more extreme de0r ., t |e _ rally the result of obstructive disease at the pylono ovx^ consequence of which the ingesta accumulate within the559 INFLAMMATION’ OF THE STOMACH. . The distension in such cases is sometimes so enormous that the • stomach extends over the entire abdominal cavity, the greater curvature reaching the pubes. Eokitansky says, “ that repeated repletion, m consequence of a morbid appetite,” may become the “ “ great distension as when the pylorus is obstructed • or that this may also “ occur as a result of paralysis from con- »nHSThnfl’ttriCl T dl1slocat.lon- Produced by large scrotal hernias, . and that it kills slowly with vomiting, with or without gangrene tL mem,brane> uad°r symptoms of complete paralysis.” . The dilated stomach may show muscular hypertrophy in chronic cases, or m rapid cases, atrophy. J CUnyes in the Coats.-The coats of the stomach may be ab- r™aUy t,hlc,k’ either m consequence of cancerous disease, or .from ample hypertrophy of the muscular layer. The pyloric ■ S? f ,gTera% t le part wher0 muscular hypertrophy PJhows itself, and here it seems to affect more especially the layer of annular fibres. Thickening may also be a consequence of chronic inflammation. Atrophy of the coats, speaking generally is^ost commonly observed in cases attended with much emamaSon ■ it b als° s”metlmes ln consequence of extreme dilatation of the cavity sometimes spontaneously. The muscular layer is in most mes the one most palpably Wed; the mucous rn’embrnne -as, however, not uncommonly atrophied also ns wo A,„n p particularly describe when speaking of textural changes ] the foetal state; or with the fundus on Sight sfde" E™: 0r bo d/splaced by new growths or enlargement of Scent INFLAMMATION OF THE STOMACH. vdts^!ff!rmati0n of tbo stomacb ^ characterized by intense ClW Th ,C0US SUrfaCe from of the vessels an(l amifications anf irraddiTk n1’ CUffUS6d °P ”• tbe form of dendritic iften met with The ?’ “umor,ous minute ecchymoses areINFLAMMATION OF TIIE STOMACH. 560 superficial erosions or commencing ulcers are seen. The sub- mucous tissue is also injected; the muscular coat usually relaxed, so that dilatation results. These changes seldom extend over the whole surface, but are usually confined to one part, mostly the pyloric half. In arsenical poisoning, however, the arsenic being applied to a wound in the skin, the hyperaemia, which is very intense, chiefly affects the splenic region, and, what is curious, J the upper parts of the folds are much more congested than the i 10 Acute inflammation of the stomach but rarely, if ever, occurs, except as the result of irritants directly applied to it. The cases ■ related by Andral give proof, however, of its existence as an idiopathic affection, or as the sequel of rheumatism, or of epidemic i cholera. We quote the account he gives of the morbid changes. In case 1, the stomach was strongly contracted, so as to be nearly- the size of the transverse colon: “ Its inner surface, over nearly its entire extent, was of a brownish red. This colour had its exclusive seat in the mucous membrane, which had become m every part very thick, and was at the same time very friable. On its free surface there were discovered a multitude of small red or blackish points, which seemed to have their principal seat in the-, villi- however, beneath these the body of the mucous membrane^ was ’red, and, as it were, penetrated with blood; mmo part coma this membrane be detached, it gave way under the forceps, and m: several points it resembled a pulp without any consistence. Aear the pylorus, the mucous membrane resumed its normal consistence, and was of a greyish colour. In case 2, also, the stomach was strongly contracted. Its mucous membrane was of a dark red colour over the entire surface of the great cul-de-sac, and over all the posterior surface from the cardia to the pylorus. This rednes, penetrated the entire substance of the membrane, which had lost- its consistence in every part where it was red; in some points it s0rt of pulp. Towards the anterior surface the mucous membrane presented a date-coloured tint, without its “onsisten” being much changed: near the pylorus some mam- millation was observed. The surface was d threadv mucus. In another case, also idmpathic, the panetes on the stomach were remarkably softened: “ °ver ail the e por^ of this viscus, its tunics, from the peritoneal to>tte.mucous, to no longer any consistence; they gave way under the as, sort of pulp ' Wherever this softening existed, the panetes o stomaeff were of a dark red colour and u it worn Near the pylorus the panetes of the stomach i . ^ving oii consistence,” and were of a greyish tmt dlf an gastritis, consecutive to a malignant cholera, 1 • pcned • early period of the disease, the mucous membrane red andIsoJ- * ; «t a later period it was sometimes in the same condition, somehme- brown or slate-coloured, and its tissue thickened am In an excellent instance of intense hyperaemia of the stomacnINFLAMMATION OF THE STOMACH. 5C1 which we had the opportunity of examining, the whole mucous ■ surface was of a deep red, almost black, the subjacent tissues were much less affected. The cavity was empty, and the organ was much contracted. The surface was uncovered by mucus, only a little alkaline fluid lay in the furrows between the rugae. The capillaries were gorged with blood iu every part of the membrane, they were seen running parallel to the tubes in their whole length’ but those which adjoined the free surface (which are always°the most congested) had given way in numerous spots, and saturated the tissue round them with extravasated blood. The tubes were healthy, and there was no apparent exudation among them. The patient died with cardiac hypertrophy and general dropsy. The liver and spleen were much congested, and it is pretty certain that the hypersemia of the stomach was passive rather than active. Catarrhal Inflammation.—As Eokitansky remarks, we have rarely, if ever, the opportunity of observing the first stage of ■■ acute catarrhal inflammation of the stomach, but we may reasonably infer that it consists, as in other parts, of a more or less considerable hypersemia, accompanied by a copious jexudation of mucus upon the surface, with 'little or no hormous exudation in the substance of the tissue. A chronic .’..catarrhal state is by no means uncommonly met with, the »Anatomical characters of which Eokitansky enumerates “as a alark reddish-brown, or slate-grey, or even blackish-blue dis- coloration of the mucous membrane, copious secretion of a stone-coloured, occasionally glassy pituita, thickening, increased condensation, and induration, i.e., hypertrophy of the mucous membrane, which presents itself in various degrees: (a) In the west degree, the mucous membrane shows simply an increase of pluck ness and hardness in its tissue; (0) in a higher degree it •presents, m addition to its increased thickness, an uneven, race- 1 Aose, or warty surface, a surface mamellonee; (y) in a still more advanced degree, it forms prolongations in the shape of permanent tma folds or of polypus. The submucuous cellular tissue, and the pouscular coat, also participate in this hypertrophy in various egrees—the entire parietes of the stomach presenting unusual mckness, firmness, and hardness. The pyloric portion is the , , * scat °f chronic catarrh, and it is there that hypertrophy of I oo mucous and other membranes is most prominent.” Andra.l FOmarks, that in chronic gastritis the mucous membrane may [ippear after death to be in a perfectly natural state, or at least to ' m'e undergone no alteration discernible by the eye. The sub- rdeent tissues, and particularly the submucous areolar tissue, are '• wever, in these cases more or less affected. Iu the majority of ‘s ances, however, the colour, the consistence, and the substance tie membrane are variously changed. A grey slate, brown i mo?°re or 1®8,® deeP black, tint are often observed, as well as metimes a dull white, milky aspect. In regard of consistence, o oINFLAMMATION' OF THE STOMACH. 502 the mucous membrane may be indurated or softened; the latter is more frequent than the former. Induration may exist with all the.; different shades of colour just mentioned. With respect to its substance the mucous membrane may be thickened or attenuated, or may remain unaltered. A state of thickening may coexist with induration or with softening; the former combination is peculiars Fir,. 128. Vertical section of mucous membrane of stomach, the tubes being complete!; wasted and replaced by fibroid tissue. a, Remains of mucous membrane. I, Fibroid tissue, c, Fat cells. to chronic gastritis, and affords a good example of false hyper- trophy. Induration, like the thickening, may be partial on general. Attenuation of the gastric mucous membrane is nips' 1 often met with towards the great cul-de-sac, in the same situatioi where softening is most frequent. Andral says, “ Sometimes; however, I have found the mucous membrane towards the pyloru so attenuated that it resembled a sort of transparent, extreme^ fine web. On attempting to raise it, it was changed into a reddisi white pulp, as happens in certain degrees of softening." HI admits, what we shall presently remark, that this attenuation mai occur as a pure atrophy totally independent of inflammation. i Minute Changes in the Stomach.—We have examined carefnll;! with the microscope more than a hundred stomachs taxen nvj differently, and have published in the “ Assoc. Journal lor Or* 7th and Jan. 27th, 1854, the details of the following, vanetie of change:—(1) One of the commonest, especially in its mmo degrees, consists in the infiltration of a low fibroid tissue 1°“®] with nuclei or small cells among the tubes, which tliemse vcj undergo atrophy, so that at last the mucous membrane total!, loses its tubular aspect, and becomes a mere fibroid stra mj more or less densely set with nuclei throughout. In this st. j the basement membrane may still persist, and the thickness563 INFLAMMATION OF THE STOMACH. the tissue be little diminished. In some instances the nuclei disappear, and the fibroid stratum develops fibres more de- cidedly. (2) There are formed masses of nuclei, or small cells, • Fig. 129. '■ Vertical section of mucous membrane of stomach, showing the lower parts of (lie tubes, and a nuclear mass extending among them upwards. a, Tubes, b, Nuclear infiltration, c, Submucous tissue. ' most often at the bases of the tubes encroaching upon them, often “ also in the substance of Fig. 130. ■ the mucous membrane, and - sometimes at its surface :— these are sometimes cir- cumscribed, sometimes dif 'fused, and then pass into the preceding forms by -gradual shades. (3) The nuclear deposits sometimes seem to give rise to cystic cavities, or these may form from dilatations of the tubes, or arise, de novo, as in other situations. (4) 1 ffhe mammillated condition appears to depend on a process of local atrophy, at least in most cases, the tubes being wasted in the track of the furrows, which mmetimes are so deep as to fissure the membrane down to its Cavity formed in the mucous membrane of stomach, by the disintegration of a nuclear mass. The surrounding tissue is pervaded by nuclear deposit. a, Basement membrane of surface. b, Altered mucous membrane. c, Submucous tissue.564 INFLAMMATION OF TXIE ST011ACH. corium. (5) A fatty state is very commonly met with, and in two forms, one in which the epithelium is bulky and the tissue healthy, or nearly so; the other, where the epithelium is atro- phied, in consequence, generally, of pressure by new-formed 1 fibroid tissue upon the tubes. (6) The tubes in the' pyloric region are often found changed in the following manner: the j continuous row of tubes is interrupted, and there are seen at ; intervals instead groups of convolutions containing a fatty wasted epithelium, and not possessing any manifest outlet on . the surface. We think that inflammation is not the most essen- tial moment in these changes. The nuclear masses, when not' of large size, may be regarded as identical with the naturally existing solitary glands. _ . ... Croupy Inflammation resulting m so-c&iIgu. fibrinous gx ii elution, which forms a false membrane, sometimes of regular areolar sur- face, is very rarely seen, at least in England, and is said by Rokitansky to be a “ sequela or degeneration of exanthematic processes, as of variola, typhus, pysemia, and particularly' puerperal phlebitis. Sometimes inflammation of a low erysipe- latous kind attacks the submucous connective tissue of the stomach,) and occasions suppuration. The pus, after a time, escapes by numerous irregular cribriform openings into the cavity ot thei V1SCUS. ” • Corrosive Poisons.—We proceed to notice the effects of causfic fluids such as the mineral acids, which have been swallowed. The mucus in the mouth and fauces is coagulated into flocculent masses, the epithelium is detached here and there, and ‘‘converted mm a thick greyish-white, rugose layer,” and the subjacent mucous mem- brane is pale. If the caustic fluid has penetrated more deeply, « the superficial layers of the mucous membrane of the fauces and oesophagus are found congested, of a dirty, whitish, leaden hue, and the capillary network blackened by its carbonized contents. The lower strata of the mucous membrane, and the submucous cellular tissue, present serous infiltration. In the follicles ai a , i i 4-T. ~ can tlie liar uBsue, poouuu — . i a * root of the tongue, the mucous secretion is coagulatec 1,1 m j_it — c into dirty white masses.' In a still higher degree of corrosm action, the entire mucous membrane is destroyed, and conveitec into a duty grey mass, which is traversed by black vessels, submucous cellular tissue is infiltrated, and parbaUy ecchymose the muscular coat of the oesophagus itself is shrivelled, pale a*h> In the highest degree, the mucous membrane of the msoph.^u- together with the submucous cellular tissue, is converted m a soft, black mass, which is distended by a sangmnolent flmd, an is easily detached from the muscular coat. The hitter is ike. either destroyed in the same manner, or is perfectly^ouiiBse friable, and presents an ashy, gelatinous appearance, membrane of the stomach,” m consequence of being longer in co tact with the corrosive substance, “ almost mvanab y sui i changes of the last degree but one, though in varying exuINFLAMMATION OF THE STOMACH. 56,3 - uiuuu-vrasoiB, out also OI larger trunks, and even of the aorta, is changed into pulta- thicknoss. It is either affected in single folds, or streaks which pass from the cardiac orifice to the lesser curvature, and from the large curvature to the pylorus; or over a large extent; or we find the entire surface converted into a black carbonaceous mass, of ■several lines in thickness, distended by sanguinolent fluid, and consequently presenting a tumefied appearance.” The muscular coat is affected, and the parietes of the stomach are often perforated . 1 1 r ui/uiuawi CbLKj U1UDU ‘ The acid affects the neighbouring organs through the mem- branes, and thus either coagulates'or tans the contained fluids, ..fuses the tissues into a gelatinous mass, or Cfirbonifi.es thorn; the liscoloration produced is always very marked. In many cases, aot only the blood of the neighbouring blood-vessels, but also of ■nn Ifll'fVQP ri*un lrti nrt/-l A I 1*1 . • ^ous, pitchy, greasy, black cylinders. Beyond the stomach, and especially in the duodenum, and at the commencement of the ejunum, the effect of the lowest degree is exhibited in coagulation if the intestinal mucus, and of the chyle, in corrugation and ipacity of the epithelium, in the tanned state of the mucous mem- irane, and the dark injection of its vessels.” The highest decrees ‘if corrosive action are rapidly fatal, “the lowest degrees are allowed by exudative inflammation, the mortified epithelium l -i J 1 UAAC -LU.UI LlUtH doughs, and being replaced by a new formation, as soon as :he reaction has abated, recovery ensues.” In all the higher degrees, inflammation, passing into suppuration, produces°the separation of the superficial mortified layers. The suppurating nroeess may be protracted, or may terminate early with the cormation of cicatrices. “According to the depth to which he tissues are destroyed, the loss of substance is repaired under J f™ o sh-uctnres that vary in size and consistency.” L 1 ffth\m° lfiCatl01^18 llmited the ^bmucous cellular tissue h. latter becomes condensed, and “ forms, at some places, project- or and evon annular, duplications towards fLm US T7 peculiar membranous strictures are 13S2' i 1 the muscular coat itself is involved, it is partially ntn I f/ <l0Sn°Te<1’jmd the walls of the oesophagus are converted ^afibro-cellular firm tissue, which contracts, and thus pro- J™®. th'!.most lmP.ortant and most resisting strictures.” Chronic ™ S0,metm'.us occlirs as the result of profound injury •oai hfei0rma 0n °,f 1absccsses anfl sinuses of the musculo -oat, and of the surrounding cellular sheath of the cesophao-us mlY produco perforation of adjoining passages, the ti-achea ami J-Ty healAl0avillo considerable contractions of the ■ ■ s and strictures. Cicatrices and strictures are formed in the frequently, in the membranes of the stomach. - n rbid changes produced by arsenic arc as follows • “ At one i larger ^amount* T?0*1 th° Powder,haPPeM to attach itself to •ormfc i ammint, the mucous membrane appears plicated and mmefied, reddened, invested by a detached epithelium and n n> exudation; its tissue is softened, pultaceous; and at theULCEltATION OF TIIE STOMACH. o(36 spot where the white grains of arsenic axe attached, it is converted into a yellowish or greenish brown slough.” The tissue intervening between these solitary foci is often quite healthy. Fig. 131. ULCEKATION OF THE STOMACH. Perforating Ulcers.-Ulceration of the coats of the stomach is much less frequent than that of other portions of the intestinal caad t occurs sometimes as the result of chronic gastritis, or of the^cor- rosive action of poisons. These ulcers require no special notice but there is one particular kind which is rather peculiar to this oSan and which is of especial interest, from its occurring in tissues which otherwise appear quite healthy, and from the senou. and rapidly fatal effects to which it too often gives rise Epfa- tansky terms this the perforating gastric ulcer, on account of iff bavin" a decidedly marked tendency to perforate the panetes of thHtomach. He describes it as followsIn a ^-defined case there is, in the region of the pylorus, a circular orifice of from three to six lines in diameter with a sharp peritoneal edge, m f „»„d piece of g«»tric pastes of substance on the internal membranes of the stomach, and especially of the mucous layer, appears more consider- able, so that the edges of the hole seem bevelled off from within outwards.” ^ In some cases the margins of the ulcer are quite smooth and thin, in others thickened and in- durated. ‘‘ The pyloric bait of the stomach, ’ Eokitansky proceeds, “ is the seat of the ulcer: it is most frequently found in the middle zone ot this portion; it is oftenei seen at the posterior than at the anterior surface, almost always near to, and Ire- quently at, the lesser cur- vature ; and it occurs in extremely rare cases only at the A similar ulcer m.; form in the upper obl.que portrou rrf.be duodenum, or in the lower end ot the JJ ^ i„'te..tin»l •is observation has yet shown, in any other pait Pnual canah The size of these ulcers, ^^W^ceedin’g that of that of a cheese-plate ; we have never seen them exc Perforating' ulcer of stomach. The mucous membrane is puckered into folds round it.ULCERATION OE THE STOMACH. OUi a half-crown. Their form is commonly circular, at least in the outset, though they often become elliptical or quite irregular as they extend. Sometimes the ulcer enlarges in its transverse diameters, so as to obtain a zonular form. Sometimes two ulcers coalesce together more or less completely. “ In the majority of cases there is only a single ulcer,” (there is no mention'of more than a single one in three cases which are recorded consecutively in the Report of the Pathological Society for ] 847-48,) “but frequently Jiere are two or three, occasionally four or five, and these are theii commonly placed above or near to one another at the posterior suirace ot the stomach, or at the lesser curvature.” When the ulcer is perfectly circular, the narrowing of its area, as it extends in depth is very marked, the muscular coat is less extensively de- ^ S the mucous, and the peritoneum again less exten- sively than the muscular, the perforation, in fact, taking place as Rokitansky describes it, in the centre of the included circle. The exact nature of the process by which the ulceration commences has not yet been the subject of direct observation Cm of Ptrfw-atim, Ulcer.-The origin of these ulcers has been explained in various ways; the most important element in their causation must, however, be the corrosive action of the gastric fluid, since they are found only in parts which are exposed to its but°it ^> stomach and adjacent parts of the intestinal canal- the now fhe Shr°Wn r°W th° tlssues> which commonly pos- sess o power of resisting digestion, are in this case affected by thm piocess. It has been shown by physiologists that the nWf nLtyo?b8t?rtitR1lf iS ”ot 4&ed, fs the circulatio^bi blood If L°a th,y, b 00<1’ accordm£ to some, of alkaline ,If tbo circulation is interrupted this immunity is lost and nrol?LltrL ^T168 b“0ffle llable tw digestion; and it is rendered alw vl n,by °bs®[va*lon> that limited stasis, or stagnation of blood orwli n -fl formation of such an ulcer; a dark red, brown’ comol rk Spu W"nr- (acc°rdmg to Forster) produced, which be- .nes necrotic, and is corroded by the gastric fluid. The stasis or or be ihe^LpoCUr m r C<T'S° of 81mPle catarrhal inflammation the consequence ot extreme venous hypercenria in cases of obstniction m the gastric or portal veins ; or" again as shown bv branch^ TH CaUSod by thrombosis or embolism of a small arterial The ■ni.n r Si “amwhich of these causes is the commonest of 1)' u° ulceration ofton corresponds to the distribution of one 11 kTmU nrtcrkl-twi** i -obrthsle™, omboli.m or tW observe i ! ln 11'are instances, been observed. AVe have twice but fh;d a/tc‘nes obstructed by a clot in the floor of gastric ulcers • beemSrhage iTr't t0 8p°fntaneous arrest of tionq mtv ° p •Ur ^°P^anci etato8, and some of our own observe neerflo confirmatory, “that this affection is most frequentULCERATION OF TILE STOMACH. 50S well as from pains in the stomach, hut have generally been able to pursue their avocations, and to take their food, up even to the period of the fatal seizure.” Ilonmorrhage and Perforation.—The ulcer, especially when seated near the smaller curvature, is apt to involve some arterial branch, from which blood is poured out in abundance. The haemorrhage may be so copious as to destroy life at once, but more frequently death does not occur till after repeated attacks. The deeper the ulcer has extended the larger in general are the vessels it meets with, and the more serious, in consequence, the loss of blood. It has happened, that an ulcer, after perforating the coats of the stomach, has lighted upon the pancreatic duct and produced a fistulous opening into it. The most dangerous situation for an ulcer to occupy is the lower half or two-thirds of the anterior surface of the stomach, as, in case of perforation, there is no organ to which it can easily become adherent. On the posterior surface, adhesions form between the stomach and pancreas, or the adjoin- ing lymphatic glands, and on the upper and pyloric part of the anterior surface the escape of the gastric contents into the peritoneal cavity is sometimes prevented by the left lobe of the liver. In a remarkable case, recorded in the Report of the Patho- logical Society, 1847-48, p. 252, the barrier opposed to the_exten- sion of an ulcer by the left lobe of the liver proved insufficient, as the destructive process continued until it perforated the diaphragm, and gave rise to hepatisation and a gangrenous cavity in the lower lobe "of the left lung. These ulcers may heal at any period of their course ; it is not uncommon to find the cicatrices, which are their results, on the inner surface of the stomach. There can be no doubt that a production of fibroid tissue is the means whereby the reparation is effected. This takes place both in the margins of the ulcer, producing thickening and subsequent contraction, and also at the base, which it lines with a thin smooth layer. Cicatrices of this kind present a depression of the size of the ulcer, sur- rounded by thickened and elevated margins; others, where more contraction has taken place, are of a linear or corded shape. Haemorrhagic erosion of the gastric mucous membrane is thus de- scribed by Rokitansky :—“ There are round or roundish spots of the size of a pin’s head or pea, or narrow elongated streaks, at which the mucous membrane appears dark red, lax, soft, bleeding, and presenting a depression in consequence of loss of substance or slight erosion. Sometimes this loss of substance involves the entire thickness of the mucous membrane and the submucous cellular tissue, and produces an appearance of small round or striated ulcers. This process is invariably accompanied by hcemorrhage,” the effused blood being mixed in a more or less altered state with gastric mucus, which is poured out by the mem- brane affected with recent or inveterate catarrhal inflammation. The erosions are often very numerous, studding perhaps everv part of the stomach, with the exception of the fundus; their cineSOFTENING OF THE STOMACH. 5G9 seat is at the pyloric portion. They are not peculiar to any form of disease. Microscopic examination of one of these ulcers showed the surface sunk in, the basement membrane gone, and the tubes quite atrophied and replaced by low fibroid substance, infiltrated with diffused yellow pigment. SOFTENING OF THE STOMACH. This condition, once thought to be of great importance and to indicate disease existing during life, is now generally regarded as a change which takes place after death. Under some circum- stances, as yet imperfectly understood, the gastric juice will act upon the walls of the stomach as upon the food during life, and partially or completely dissolve them. When the solution is only partial the mucous layer alone may be affected; its surface will be smooth without rugoe, the vessels containing blood will be stained black or brown, and the same colour may be seen diffused; while the whole wall will, of course, be thinner. The neighbouring parts, where the change is less advanced, will look pulpy and almost gelatinous. A\ hen the process extends more deeply, similar changes are seen to affect the muscular and fibrous coats, making them so soft as to give way with a touch, or actually dissolving them. It may happen that the walls, though not actually perfo- rated, are so soft that the attempt to remove the organ causes its contents to escape into the abdominal cavity. This change, whether partial or complete, is distinguished from conditions occurring during life, or from any possible result of the action of corrosive poisons by the following characters. The change is limited to that portion of the stomach in which food or acid liquid was contained; this, in the ordinary supine position of the body, will be the cardiac extremity and fundus, and espe- cially its posterior part, so that, as Dr. Wilks points out, if the contents be removed, it may be possible to see, by the change which has occurred, to what height the food reached, the water- mark being accurately defined by a distinct margin. Again, if perforation has occurred, a gradual thinning and softening of the coats will be observed all round, which will show that the opening cannot have been due to an accidental cut with the knife; while the entire absence of inflammatory reaction is sufficient evidence that the opening was not made, at least, long before death by ulceration or any similar process. The softening may extend in some cases beyond the stomach to the lower end of the oesophagus, diaphragm, pleurae, and lungs, or the oesophagus alone may be perforated, and the contents of the stomach escape interne pleura. Less frequently the change ex- tends to the duodHWm, where the mucous surface will be found pulpy and soft, or the whole wall destroyed. Pathology of Softening of the Stomach.—It has been always held570 NEW GROWTHS IN THE STOMACH. by most English pathologists, including Hunter and Eaillie, that the appearances just described are solely due to cadaveric change. On the other, several continental authorities, as Cruveilhier and Bokitansky, have attributed them to a special disease, or have supposed that there were two forms of softening, that due simply to post-mortem digestion, and another due to disease, called Gastromalacia, and alleged to be specially prevalent in children. It has, however, been shown (especially by Elsasser) that the existence of such a disease is extremely improbable, and rests on no evidence; so that the original explanation of Hunter must be maintained. The alleged frequency of softening in children is probably to be accounted for by the excessive production of lactic acid in the acid fermentation of milk contained in their stomachs. The favouring conditions are, however, difficult to trace. NEW GROWTHS IN THE STOMACH. Fatty tumours, originating in the submucous tissue, and increas- ing in size, may either press inwards towards the cavity of the stomach, or outwards, towards the peritoneal sac. In either situation they may be sessile, or pedunculated. Lymphoid growths have been seen in cases of general lympho-sarcoma, or “ adenie.” Fibroid nodules sometimes form in the areolar sub- mucous tissue, “ chiefly in the vicinity of the cardiac orifice, and the lesser curvature.” Tumours of smooth muscle-fibre have also been described. Erectile tissue may be developed at the free ex- tremity of polypoid growths, or may occupy a larger surface ot a sessile tumour. Tubercle is very rarely seen in the stomach, an only occurs in cases ‘ ‘ where intestinal tuberculosis has advanced to an extreme degree.” Cancerous disease of the stomach is frequently met with ; this organ ranks next to the uterus in the list of mortality from this cause. Primary cancer exists in the majority of cases. I)r. Walshe speaks of secondary “as almost unknown,” except where it invades the organ from extension o adjacent growths. One such case of secondary cancer has been recorded by Cohnheim. It is not uncommon to find a solitary growth in the stomach, no other part being implicated, prob.i v in consequence of the fact that cancer attacking so vital an oigan as the stomach causes death at a comparatively early period, be ore time has been given for extension to other organs. . pylorus,” says Bokitansky, “ indifferently at all parts of its ci. cumference, is known to be the chief seat of primary fibrous an areolar cancer of the stomach. From this point the degenera i extends chiefly along the lesser curvature over the pyloric ha the stomach ; in many, though severe cases, it affects t“® stomach, attacking the fundus last, which, however, gei< ■ . remains partially free. The panetes of the stomach may attam an inch in thickness, being rigid and generally tubercu.CANCER OF THE STOMACH. 571 their inner surface; the cavity of the stomach will at the same time he diminished in size.* In 120 cases collected by Kohler, fifty-nine occurred at the pylorus, seventeen on the lesser curva- ture, eleven on anterior and posterior surfaces, eight at the cardiac extremity, three on the greater curvature, three involving the whole stomach, and in one case at several points. Dr. Walshe states that cancer of the orifices may extend to the duodenum or the oesophagus. Kokitansky affirms “ that cancer of the pylorus is accurately bounded by the pyloric ring, and hardly ever extends to the duodenum,” whereas cancer at the cardia invariably in- volves a portion of the oesophagus. "We certainly think that scir- rhous disease of the pylorus does not extend much beyond its original site, at least along the intestine, although it may propa- gate itself to the head of the pancreas, or the adjacent lymphatic glands. Commonly, as Eokitansky describes it, the scirrhous pylorus is bound down by the degeneration of the tissues lying Fig. 132. Scirrhus Pylori. At the diseased part the walls of the stomach are extremely thickened, and of a whitish colour. behind it, hut in other cases it remains moveable, and may bo felt as a distinct tumour having descended more or less over to the lower part of the abdomen. The pylorus, the cardiac orifice, the greater, and lastly, the lesser curvature are liable, according to * this condition the following is an example A. M., art. 63, dying with general chronic peritonitis and ascites. The stomach was very much contracted in all its extent, its coats were very much thickened, the muscular especially, the mucous membrane was apparently intact and thrown into foldB. The muscular fibres were very evident and this tissue was greatly hypertrophied. Hete and there, in the sub- stance of it, nuclei and eellcoipuscles were seen. These were, however, much more abundant in the snbmmf^tissue, where they were very conspicuous. The new growth had also evidently mfiltiated the mucous membrane and destroyed the tubes oL" "cihv0n y ,ra<,e,K c0,,!d 1,0 sc™’ the substance of the membrane being f c.0,pusolcs. The liver was small, contained no cancer, nor were there any enlarged glands.CANCER OF THE STOMACH. 572 the order in which we have placed them, to be the seat of cancer. Fibrous cancer, i.e.. scirrhus, undoubtedly is the most common, or, as we are inclined to think, a combination of scirrhus with col- loid. Medullary cancer ranks next, according to Rokitansky,* and areolar or colloid last. Re notices the frequent primary combi- nation, and the yet more frequent secondary, of scirrhus with en- cephaloid, or of both with colloid. Minute Characters of Scirrhus.—-The following description was taken from an exceedingly well-marked specimen of scirrhus pylori, in which the walls of the passage were so thickened as to be nearly an inch in diameter. The cut surface presented a whity greyish tissue, contrasting well with the injected mucous membrane, and exhibiting a distinct striation vertical to the axis of the canal. A section under the microscope showed greyish white bands, separated here and there by transparent gelatinous matter. The bands consisted of homogeneous faintly- mottled substance, occasionally divisible into fibres closely re- sembling those of organic muscle, and, like them, exhibiting elongated nuclei when treated with acetic acid. Towards the mucous membrane this close stroma was replaced by a loose fibroid tissue, forming circular loculi of various sizes, which were filled with very various forms of cell-growth. Among them granule cells were often apparent, but the main mass con- sisted of nuclei and low developments of them. Some large mother-cells were seen, containing several well-formed nuclei and granulous matter: in the interspaces between the fibrous bands these mother-cells had attained a gigantic size, and appeared to constitute the loculi; one of them was distinctly bifurcated at its narrow end, and the branches wei’e of some length. In this ease, we consider that there was a combination of colloid with scirrhus, the former being constituted by the cellular substance. In Or. Bennett’s “Observation,” xxi.,f the alteration which had taken place in 11 the walls of the stomach was wholly of a fibrous charac- ter.” No cancer cells were detected, only elongated and fusiform nuclei; but they were numerous in the enlarged mesenteric and lumbar glands. This latter circumstance is, we think, decisive of the truly malignant nature of the morbid change in ihe stomach, and. such a case may then be regarded as one of pure scirrhus. . . ,, Distinction from Simple Induration.—In such cases, wliere tn scirrhus-like hardening of the pylorus does not present the minute characters of true cancer, the tumour may be either one of a different species, e.g., a sarcoma, or else result irom the process known as fibroid induration; nevertheless, it mu» be remembered that true scirrhus may, at a certain stage, exhibit over a considerable extent of its bulk, an entirely non-cellu a structure, and it is only by examining other portions where * Forster, however, lias found medullary cancer the most frequent, f “ Cancerous and Cancroid Growths,” p. 46. Edinburgh, lb49.573 CAITOER 01’ THE STOMACH. true the typical alveolar structure remains that we can net a tr notion of its nature. The condition of the lymphatic elands is also important, since these are not affected in cases of chronic induration. Rokitansky enumerates, as distinguishing smns of cancer, the preponderating increase of substance in the submucous cellular tissue, and its want of uniformity, the accompanying cartilaginous hardness and closeness of texture, the fusion with the mucous and muscular coats, and particularly the alteration in the muscular tissue itself We think the microscope, in practised hands, would generally clear up all doubt. When loculi of cell substance are mingled with the fibrous tissue, there can be little hesitation m regarding the growth as cancerous. If the structure is purely fibrous attention must be directed to the limitation of the disease, and to the existence of the infiltrating, softening and contaminating properties of cancer. There is, we are persuaded, a form of fibrous induration of the ?£’ accompanied by great hypertrophy of the walls and con- ti action of the orifice, which is quite unconnected with cancer In tais change the arterial branches are usually very atheromatous’ and we have seen fatal haemorrhage resulting from the rupture of such a vessel, borne authorities, as Dr. Wilson Fox1 are JSS£ t0 r6gard these as cases of “bsolete or degenerated Meduhttry or Encephaloid.—TYie encephaloid form of cancer somehmes occurs as a sort of development of scirrhus, appearing lnirlU>!gUS 01 CUC^ e'°0I“b-hke bleeding excrescences. Encepha- oid, however either m the form of knotted tumours, or deeenera tion of the submucous tissue, or infiltration of new-formed IrectRo hssue, sometimes occurs primarily. It forms soft whitish masses th a tendency to softening and breaking down. The micro’ imT,Cal StlUCtU1° S1hof8 lo<:uli, with numerous small cells more uniform m size and shape than those of scirrhus, and accoidnm to some observers, resembling those of the peptic glands It it iess confined to the pyloric extremity than scirrhus. & 0jjdinary flat-celled epithelioma, formed from pavement epithelium, does not occur in the stomach excent ^ Sr™ *'°m Sl » »»« »relyTomXPm„utt emthoHn, mlpbt be expected from the non-existence of pavement StT stomach. Cylinder-celled epithelioma ^see pa-e ,0n,^e °tber hand, sometimes occurs and appears to be Md .•.produciiou i» dj^at ,»rt8 have beTotervti elsewwlCa+nCe-’-affe?^ the sto,TI'K'h, behaves much as it does re, i originates, as the other species geneia’.ly do, in the574 CANCER OF THE STOMACH. submucous tissue, and, as in a case excellently described by Dr. Walshe, may cause atrophy and destruction of the mucous mem- brane, over a more or less considerable space. Changes in surrounding parts.-The mucous membrane covering the cancerous growth may undergo various changes. It sim .- times degenerates into an areolar cancerous tissue, which x.-- chartres large quantities of gelatinous mucous fluid , or it is converted into erectile tissue as a fungoid growth, which becomes the seat of encephaloid infiltration, suppurates, and partially exposes the submucous scirrhous cellular tissue, or, lastly, it most frequently becomes the seat of a sloe-black softening, with hemorrhage,” or it is quite destroyed, and the sloughing proem, aEks even the denuded scirrhus itself. In a specimen we recently examined of scirrhus pylori, where the mass, limited to the nvloric region, was exposed on its inner simface, forming a sloughy ulceration with elevated, thickened margins, a ^trans- formation had very evidently commenced. It was most appar nt in the contents of the loculi, which m some parts consisted of we..- formed nuclei and granulous matter, but in many others cmhof •;ta tr tiXs ™T considerable“^“loriconUet had mmmmrnm scirrhus. _ , , , Andral in which enormous dilatation of the sta’adr had taken place 8-5 wy altSion ’of th.P' nataral^ a nlace and thus to induce a conservative hypeitrop , SVesnlt. Dr. Walshe, after rence of dilatation ensuing when the iiyioiic openin 1111(.iiaI1(red and contraction when the cardiac is, the when the body of the organ alone is afiected notices s ^ This, we think, is true, at least as far as naked-eye appeared tolerably healthy! we found the tubular secreting stnic-NEW GROWTHS IN THE STOMACH. 575 ture in process of disorganization, not, however, from the extension ot the cancerous disease. Ulceration, usually the result of secondary gastric cancer, may cause perforation of the stomach and fatal peritonitis; it more frequently happens, however, that the effusion is prevented by the formation of adhesions between :he threatened part and contiguous viscera. The liver and pancreas may thus become the seat of 1 Hither cancerous invasion and destruction, or the ulcer mav eat its way into the transverse colon, and thus cause an unnatural communication between its cavity and that of the stomach. A daik fluid, resembling coffee-grounds, is often found in the can- cel ous stomach after death, as well as vomited during life. In one case, where we examined it, we found it to consist of very nume- rous blood-globules, together with black granules and IraiL (probably altered hsematme), and a very lar|e quantity offmor- phous, with some oily matter. It is to be remembered that vomited matter of this kind is not peculiar to cancerous disease, the same may be brought up when there is simple exhalation of blood from the mucous membrane common ulceration, or follicular ulceration or even softening. The only circumstances necessary for its pro- duction are hemorrhage and the acid secretion of the stomach1 ; recorded'by 7$ TsS.jr case was observed by Dr. Wilks (Ibid. vol. x. p. 146) ’ ™ nTbld rnditions of the mucous surface are piammtation .LEdELTe Abnormal Contents of the Stomach.— Besides blood there n healthy mucus m large quantities, purulent and other exudations' nf ;be Hd+by ^sterical females,"or those who aio thc morbld «tato termed pica, or by actual InnS f the pr a 1° Cfi8Jl °f this kind has been recorded by Mr Pollock f, the Report of the Pathological Society for lSol-^ inwhich th Jomach was distended by a large mass of hair and stri™ sstsws/fjsr i>ort'o“of - vo"°table parasites sometimes occur. The veost nl +576 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE INTESTINAL CANAL children in thrush. They appear to he generally found in children, but also in adults who have taken much milk ; and in other cases without any reference to food. The sarcina ventncuh ^eee pajre -} is probably not the cause of any special disease, but found in most cases of dilatation and obstruction ; sometimes in enormous quan- tities. VI.— ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE INTESTINAL CANAL. Congenital Malformations.—The intestine is not unfrequently defective in some part of its course; this most commonly^is the case near its lower termination, and involves an imperforate con- dition of the anus (atresia ani). Sometimes the intestine is onlv unusually short and of uniform calibre, or consists of several detached csecal portions, or it may terminate at the umbikcus, or in a cloaca common to it and the genito-urmary organs. Andral refers to a case in which there was only a single straight canal, extending from the termination of the oesophagus to the com- mencement of the rectum, to another in which the duodenum was double, a third in which there were two colons, to a fourth in which the appendix vermiformis was unusually large, and at the same time double. All these, except the first, are instances sof excessive development, though Rokitansky refuses to regard th as such, and considers them as “ arrests of formation. Atresia ani is the most important of these malformations. Som - times we find absolutely no anal orifice, sometimes one which S leads into a short ciecal pouch; the colon m both cases “ ding blindly in a mass of connective tissue. The rationale of this defect evidently is, that the inferior extremity of the rectum, formed bv inversion of the external integument, mils to become connectedwith the colon, which is formed out of the third embryonic !j law' mode 0f development of the intestine gives occasion for some of hs congenial Abnormalities. The rudimentary m eshne consists of a portion pinched off from the vitelline vesicle and. th^ communication between them, the omphah-mesmtenc or vitelline duct remains open for a considerable time. If the open ,”g after birth, there m»Je . tax , f ™en S« will, it He umbilicus into ulucb Itie ieumwill open enbe_ rlirectlv or by a channel given off latex all} fioin • . -.i remnant of the oinphalo-meseuteric duct. Or, again the wai iDIVERTICULA OE THE INTESTINE. 577 the ileum, from one to three feet above the ileo-ctecal valve. It is from half an inch to six inches long, resembling the intestine in structure, with its walls, composed of all the three coats, and cylindrical or very bluntly conical in form; its cavity, equal to, greater or less than that of the intestine. It usually proceeds from the convex side of the intestine, or that remote from the mesentery. The explanation we have given of this curious structure was first suggested by Meckel, whose views, after much-controversy, are now generally accepted. When the extremity of the diverticulum 1 still remains attached to the umbilicus by a fibrous cord, this may : give rise to strangulation of a loop of intestine and fatal obstruc- : tion. Four specimens, showing obstruction from this cause are i preserved in the Gruy s Hospital Museum ; and one is described by t ih"- Milks in the “Pathological Transactions” (vol. xvi. p. 126). . Fatal ulceration and perforation of such an appendix have been : seen in a case of typhoid fever. A case is recorded by Dr. Lionel i Beale, the Report of the Pathological Society, for 1851-52 (vol. in. p. 366), in which, fatal peritonitis ensued from softening and perforation, caused by the lodgment of a cherry-stone and other r foreign bodies, of the lower part of a diverticulum, which was ; twice as broad there as in the upper part adjoining the intestine - ft is very conceivable, therefore, that these offsets, like the i vermiform appendix, may become sources of danger by offering a favourable situation for the lodgment of cherry-stones, or other indigestible matters. False Diverticula.— Since somewhat similar coocal appendages are found m other parts of the intestine, a distinction has been drawn between true and false diverticula. The latter name is applied to I'partwl dilatations, or hernne of the mucous membrane covered by • seJ,ous coat, such as occur also in the bladder. Rokitansky - gives the following description of the characters of “ false diverti- cula, which ho regards as mere hernias of the mucous membrane resulting from the separation of the fibres of the muscular coat.’’’ 1 fney consist solely of mucous membrane and peritoneum. They occur at any part of the small and large intestines. “ They are louud m considerable numbers. They occur from the size of a pea oo tuat of a walnut, in the shape of rouud baggy pouches of the ^cous membrane. They form, more especially in the colon ■uipp.e-sliaped appendages, which occasionally are grouped too-ether wh?n cccurnng in the small intestine, they are corn- I, jniy developed on its concave side, and are therefore placed etween the layers of the peritoneum; when in the colon the races are retained by them, and dry up into stony concretions ” condition may give rise to ulceration and fatal perforation • as iQ a case recmvlnrl W vr,. «.„i t - 1 . ’. ae was ttv!? 1®cord,-'d by Mi^Kydney Jones, where a communication as thus formed betwe^^he sigmoid flexure and the bladder. tionp. voL x- P- 131). In this case a fecal concre- 7 ‘r,lthe diverticulum was actually found in the bladder Dilatation. Uniform dilatation of the intestine may take plaeu P PDISPLACEMENTS OF THE INTESTINE. 578 either from inaction of the muscular coat, or from distension from accumulation of its contents above a stricture. Disease oi the nervous centres, inflammation of the serous investments, or simple atony of its contractile fibres, may he the cause of paralytic in- action and consequent distension. 'When a stricture exists, enormous dilatation sometimes takes place. Andral relates a case in -which the large intestine was so distended that it resembled that of a horse, and concealed almost all the viscera. In sucn cases the muscular coat may be in full and painful activity, not ceasing its action, although unable to overcome the obstruction, but reversing the current (axial) so as to produce lie cal vomiting. It is singular that some of the most extreme cases of dilatation are those in which there is no obstruction; as the remarkable case described by Dr. Peacock, ending in fatal constipation where the | ileum became gradually distended to six or eight inches m diameter (“ Trans. Path. Soc.” vol. xxiii. p. 104). A greatly dilated intestine is never quite normal in structure; sometimes the muscular coat becomes hypertrophied, sometimes all the coats are thinned; and very often the mucous coat is ulcerated. We have nearly always found the latter change both in simple passive dilatation and in that arising from obstruction; and this, rather than violent rup- ture, is most often the cause of the bowel giving away. Contraction of the intestine may occur either throughout a con- siderable extent, or in a very small one. The first is not a con- dition of disease, though it has been mistaken for such, and retak= merely from the canal at that part hemg empty for some tune , so that the natural contracting efforts of the circular fibres are un- opposed, and the sides of tube are brought together. We have seen the descending colon in this way so shrunk as to be scarcely larger than the little finger. Of course this condition is most likely to occur in the part of the intestine below a stricture. The second I kind of contraction of the intestine is almost always morbid, and may result either from external pressure, as froni a strangu at.n band, or compressing tumour, or from disease of the tissue m part affected! The cicatrix of a simple or tuberculous iilcer which has assumed an annular form, or a cancerous giowth at like shape, has in most instances been the cause of stricture originating in the intestine itself. . Changes in the position of the intestine leading to morbid effect., require some particular notice. The most common of th^oon statute the several varieties of hernia. As these are folly in all surgical works, it does not seem necessary to “fke _ine..ho of them here; and we shall therefore confine our attention, fol to the morbid changes of po.rt.oa wtehUW the intestine within the abdominal cavity. A portion c l, ■. nay be twisted upon its own axis, so as to obstruct the canalby tie approximation and contact of the walls. This seems tohave been observed only in the ascending colon. The mesente . twisted upon itself, forming a kind ot cone, with uioie o • j579 WOUNDS OF THE INTESTINE. the in.estine attached to its base, which becomes strangulated by being twisted round the mesentery. “ One portion of the intes- tine either single or double—a coil—may afford the axis round which another portion with its mesentery is thrown, so as to be throughout in contact with the circumference of the axis and thus to compress it like a ferule. A coil of small intestine, the sigmoid flexure, or the caecum, may form the axis.” Abnormal length of the mesentery probably predisposes to these affections. More frequent than the foregoing, are the instances in which a portion of intestine, generally the small, becomes strangulated in consequence of having got into one of the following situations : (1) into the Assure of Winslow ; (2) into an opening in the mesentery; o d^rra m the °mentum; (4) into spaces included by coided bands of false membrane, and various parts of the abdo- minal viscera ; (o) into similar spaces formed by a long vermiform appendage, or intestinal diverticulum. b Tr tl10 rectum have keen known to be compressed ti b tl'1C ed,b^ a mass of loaded small intestine lying1 upon fcZ ^al/eferS t0 f,CUri0US pase “ which the'\ransverse , c-kild of six months old, was compressed between the occmatTvmv tllu vel'teb^li coliimn. These varieties of incarceration avers fo+17 F' i* °f they are more c°mmon, Eokitanskv Oman’s 6 Sef in tke male’ because the sexual oi an*, of the former not only offer an additional point of attach ment for constnctmg bands, but may also themselves give rise to cTmSof7thS- 7is n0t Very — ommoS to find a resulW from I rtattached lu the Velvia by fibrous adhesions cases of°fat7s7 f °J PTame*ntls J and we have seen several ■ Kouen7 8tlaS i°F dePendmg on this cause alone. The wavsqare disfrW^^angulation taking place in any of the above naft al€b .^tension of the intestine above the comnressed SCl”"1 aT' The portio” L lie i peculiarlv lfohlo + muc^ Py?ssure on the mesenteric vessels, is Cks tbaf th! ° COn?eft1011 a*d gangrene. Andral well ina- the m mere existence of the bands of adhesion form- ' straXlaff5Ce%aSVe-dfCnbed’ by no means necessarily involves come-oi rrv p 0!!1116^::11^ 7S’ h0wevei'> “ such cases, may I becomes distendedPfrom W1°n the inTcluded portion of “testinJ observed for sevem /m <TY °aUSe- ^ Some cases symptoms are ment to the it 1 month»8 ?r years> indicating that some impecli- ment to the free passage of the intestinal contents exists. P ' SocieW for 7 E®P°rfc of the Pathological • small intp F E ’ tw° cases op so-called mesocolic hernia • the S-iota"tfcaf *■ * by ft. layer, of gj thouo-V, ‘ •, tde nr&l^rithese cases there was no strangulation edgef-1 out,of the 8ac ■■a S23S where it escaped ° “ W“ stranSulated a* the part W°Und8 Und Nations of the intestines demand a brief notice.INVAGINATION OF TOE INTESTINE. 580 Wlien the bowel is wounded by the thrust of a cutting instrument, the danger of escape of the intestinal contents, and of consequent peritonitis, is not so extreme as might be supposed. The mucous membrane being somewhat loosely attached and thrown into natural folds, protrudes at the orifice so as to close it, if it be not very large ; at the same time the constant pressure of the panetes tends to keep the wounded point applied against the opposing surface, to which, moreover, it becomes glued before long by adhesive exudation. If an opening is made into the intestine jy ulcerative perforation of its wall, the effusion of lymph uniting it to adjacent parts becomes occasionally the medium through which a fistulous communication is established, either with tne exterior of the body, or with another hollow viscus in the vicinity. Sometimes the ulceration instead of penetrating further, causes simplv the formation of abscess in the subperitoneal cellular tissue, faecal abscess, as it is termed. When the intestine is divided completely across, the two ends will occasionally unite, the serous surfaces be brought together and maintained m apposi- tion by stitches, but no one has yet succeeded in repeating Kam- dohr’s experiment (said to have been successful), m which a large portion of an intestine having mortified, was cut on, and the upper end inserted within the lower and kept m that position by a suture. It is very unlikely, that a mucous and a serous mem- brane would unite by adhesions, which is said to have occurred m that case ; the serous covering alone, and not the mucous surfa being disposed to adhesive inflammation. The mtestme may be ruptured or even completely torn across by a blow on the abdomen without any laceration of the wails of the body , sometimes even without any external bruise. The sudden escape of the intestinal contents produces acute and violent invagination of the intestine implies the inversion of a portion and its intrusion into another, an upper portion being generaffy intended into a lower, and the converse rarely (Dr Brmton thought never) occurring. The following account we abbiemato from the very full details given by Rokitansky. Invapab - not uncommonly form during the last moments of Me^pe daily in diseases which give rise to irregular and dmturlMj innervation. Thus they are often met with m the dead bodm of children who have died from hydrocephalus. They are characterized by the absence of all appearancesofre-actimi, such as we shall presently mention, and by tee parts being easily restored to their proper situation. Several ^ the same case. When they occur during life as a « tion, or consecutive only to diarrhoea, they spee • . ^-sus- patient into a condition of extreme danger. D COm- cention must present at least three layers, as will be readffy oom SS on viewing the accompanying diagram; the outer called the sheath, is formed by a portion of mtestme in its natmaINVAGINATION OP THE INTESTINE. 581 Fig. 133. position ; the middle is formed by the portion of intestine imme- diately above, which is inverted ; so that its mucous surface looks outward, and is m contact with the mucous surface of the sheath • the inner is the portion of intestine next above, with its serous surface opposed to that of the middle layer, which is simply in- ti uded into the canal beyond it. Five layers will exist if another portion of intestine be forced down, and inverted into the original intus-susception, which then becomes a sheath to it. “Between the middle and inner layers, there is a portion of mesentery cor- responding m size to that of the intestine displaced, and folded up so as to represent a cone, the apex of which lies at the free termi- nation of the volvulus, with its base in the sheath, and at the entrance to the invagination. This portion of mesentery is always in a state of tension, which chiefly affects the part belonging to the inverted tube, and has a singular influence upon the form of the volvulus. It is the cause of the following circum- stances : First, that the volvulus • (the middle and inner layers) does 1 not he parallel to its sheath, but always offers a greater curvature 1 than the latter; the inverted tube , (the middle layer) being compressed 1 m its concavity into tense trans- ’ verse folds. Secondly, that the orifice of the volvulus does not lie m the axis or in the centre of the ' 5“®ath7 hut external to it; and that 1 following the traction exerted upon it by the mesenteric fold that be- ■ longs to the inverted intestine, it is •i directed towards the mesenteric wall of the sheath ; that it is not circular, n!rn?I>!'eSute a fissure. Intus-susceptions occur with equal fre- SIn t'hffi C° °n’ and Smad ^testine »• hut several cases occur- thef- 1ft foimer are remarkable on account of the magnitude of fh hiined. In these the sheath contained a very lon°- portion h ,Colo,‘Md ; both may be inverted two or themes anl'^ Th rSUSCept?d P,art advancee t0 vicinity of the the anus^ lle°-c;ecal valve has even been seen protruded at Diagram of intus-susception. a, The sheath. b, The receding or inverted tube. c, The entering tube. anfcS C™p™n™ofInvaginaUon.—Contraction of one part whicK*hC <fllstensl0n another, are probably the conditFons muscmSr' «£££ Upp6r extracted portion, whose miiRfuloT’ Mn4. ■ x* b ‘. ’ ounti acted portion. whose boh,cV tHomiV I® f°r 8T? dlstance upwards in a state of activity and PL! ! l ed ou*’ard ln.to the dilated part below. Disordered Qu ar lunei-vation is probably the remote cause, in this c asPROLAPSUS ANI. 582 ■well as in the case of intus-susceptions taking place during the agony. Diarrhoea is the most frequent predisposing cause; but, in some cases, a tumour growing into the intestinal cavity occa- sions invagination. Increase of the invagination always takes place by more and more of the intestine becoming inverted, so that the upper border of the middle layer is continually shifted lower down! The consequence of invagination is, as may be expected, peritonitis and its results. Inflammatory congestion is set up, not at first, in consequence of annular constriction of the volvulus, but from compression of the vessels; especially the veins of the portion of mesentery which is dragged down by the advancing and inverted, layers This obstruction to the circulation, Bokitansky says, gives rise to violent inflammation, with “plastic effusion on the contiguous serous surfaces of the entering and receding; (inverted) tube The inverted portion is invariably the one that sutlers most - ” “and it is characteristic, that even when the inflamma- tion of the volvulus (or entering portion) runs high, its mucous membrane remains pale.” Even the sheath _ is not so much affected in smaller invaginations. The tumefaction resulting from the inflammatory congestion may cause strangulation ot the vol- vulus usually at the entrance, but, sometimes at other points, it death!does not result from the peritonitis, the ensuing gangrene, or the strangulation, recovery takes place with one ot the three following terminations to the morbid process(a) Complete adhesion having been formed between the two opposed serous surfaces of the sheath, and the inverted tube at the point of in- version, the whole contained volvulus mortifies and is thrown oh, and becomes discharged per anum. In a case referred 10 T Anclral, the portion of intestinal tube thus evacuated measured eighteen inches; and Hevm relates two cases, m one ot which twenty-three inches of the colon were thus parted with, and, in the other, twenty-eight inches of small intestine. An annular swell- ing, more or less interfering with the canal of the intestine, u found in the corpses of persons in whom this termination has occurred, besides adhesions of the serous surfaces in the Yicmitw (b) “ In rare cases, in which the incarceration has been developed at an unusual point, only a partial sloughing of the volvulus takes place ; and the portion which lies above the strangulation retained. Under these circumstances, the latter forms a comci plug with a narrow channel, and projects mto the canty o sheath surrounded by a thick fringe of mucous membrane, (cl Occasionally, after adhesion has taken place, the mfiammabo abates, and the volvulus is retained. The first mode of terming tion is the only one that produces a permanent recovery ,m the others there always remains a degree of chronic kypenem1 ’ ^ liability to exacerbation. No age is exempt from t of invaginations. Andral quotes from Monro a case ol a ry considerable one, in a child four months old. . • Prolapsus out is an affection very analogous to invagmat ,INFLAMMATION OF THE INTESTINE. 583 differing c-liiefly in not having a sheath, as Eokitansky remarks, and also, as we think, in the peritoneum being less involved. In trifling cases, only a fold of the mucous membrane comes down, but, in the more serious, both the mucous and muscular tunics descend. The tumour thus formed is of a sausage or pyriform shape, pediculated by the contraction it undergoes at the anus, and having at its. extremity in the minor degrees a round central ■ orifice, and, in the greater, an eccentric fissure. The results of prolapsus ani (more properly recti), are not, for the most part, nearly so serious as those of invagination. In some cases, indeed, : strangulation takes place, the everted part swells to twice or ! thrice its proper size, assumes a red, purplish colour, with an appearance of ecchymosis and of impending gangrene. More often, even in inveterate cases, there is only a discharge from the . irritated or mucous membrane of a thin muco-sanguineous fluid, ' with, perhaps, some superficial ulceration. In some cases, the ■ epithelium of the mucous surface, from constant exposure - assumes a cuticular character. The affection is of common occur- - rence in children, for which Sir B. Brodie assigns the following i reason. The attachment of the rectum to the surrounding parts c no£ extend so high in children as in persons of mature age • ' reflection of the peritoneum takes place lower down • i and hence the rectum is more liable to be pushed out.” There must also be relaxation of the sphincter ani, which, if contracted v will prevent prolapsus. ’ INFLAMMATION OF THE INTESTINE. The muscular coat of the intestines is very rarely, if ever primarily the seat of inflammation, though it very often is in- volved by extension of the mischief from the serous or mucous tunics. IVe have, therefore, now to consider chiefly the condition i mucous membrane and its follicles when inflamed. It must be premised that no kind or amount of vascular injection can be accepted by itself as a decisive proof of the existence of inflamma- tion Obstruction to the free return of blood by the veins, accord- mg to the degree m which it exists, will produce ramiform ■ patchy or general injection; and the same cause will also give nse m the punctiform, which has been thought more characteristic 01 active hypercemia. Very marked injection also results from ere gravitation of the blood after death to the most depending Trousseau and Bigot found in dogs, which had been suspended after strangling^* a vertical position, the blood col- mciea in those parts of TO intestines which were the lowest giving the mucous membrane and its villi a deep red tinge and ^vasatingiteeif on the surface and in the submucous tissue effpefc, f 6u i 88 wel'« suspended in the reverse position, the same fleets took placo in those that were then the lowest. This hypo-INFLAMMATION OF THE INTESTINE. 684 static congestion is especially liable to take place in fevers, in severe cases of which the blood is so commonly found fluid after death. Redness, resulting from mere staining of the tissues, is sometimes very similar to that of active hypcnemia. The injection which takes place from engorgement of the veins may be distin- guished from that of inflammation, by the circumstance of its being always traceable to distended veins; and, further, we think, by the redness being more general than that of inflamma- tion commonly is. As a rule, the smaller and more isolated the patch of injection is, the more likely is it to be inflammatory; thus we find small separate patches of injection around com- mencing typhoid deposits, which contrast with the generally pale mucous membrane. . Catarrhal Inflammation. —Inflammation, affecting chiefly the mucous lining of the intestines, was distinguished by Cullen as enteritis erytliematica. It corresponds to the muco-ententis of others, especially the French pathologists. Rokitansky speaks of it as catarrhal inflammation, which may be either acute or chronic, and either attack the mucous membrane uniformly, or be developed mainly in the villi and the follicles. It is excited by. various causes of irritation, and especially by certain atmospheric influences. 4 4 The anatomical signs of the acute form are, moi e Ox less intense redness and injection of the mucous membrane, affect- ing its entire surface, or appearing as punctiform reddening from affection of the villi, or as a vascular halo sunounding the follicles; relaxation of the tissue and intumescence of the mucous membrane equaRy affecting the entire substance, or only the villi and follicles; opacity of the mucous membrane and its epithelium, from infiltration of the former and softening of the latter; friability and softening of the mucous membrane. The sub- mucous cellular tissue is injected, relaxed, and infiltrated witn a watery, opaque fluid ; the secretion is at first copious and serous; as the affection increases in intensity the former diminishes in amount, becomes opaque, viscid, and purifcrm. Chronic Inflammation is characterized, in addition to the above signs, by a dark, rusty, livid discoloration, which in severe cases appears to pervade the entire mucous membrane; by a tunn state of the mucous membrane and its follicles, accompanied by increased density of the tissue, with copious secretion of an opaque greyish-white, or yellow puriform mucus. The acute torrn may subside completely, or several relapses occurring it may merge into the chronic, which seldom “ admits of a complete cure, following are the principal changes produced by chronic intestinal catarrh. (1) A more or less abundant deposit ol black pigment in the whole mucous membrane, or in its villi or lolhc es on • (2) A permanent tumefaction of the mucous membrane, depend- ing probably on dilatation of its vessels and interstitial exudation, which causes increased density of its tissue, and ma\ give rise higher degrees to elongation of the membrane, and formation ol585 INFLAMMATION OF TIIE INTESTINE. folds and polypi.” (3) Hypertrophy of the submucous cellular tissue and of the muscular coat. (4) Profuse secretion of a grey- ish-white and milky, or of a transparent gelatinous and viscid mucus.” Suppuration and ulceration sometimes result from catarrhal inflammation, especially when an acute attack super- venes upon the chronic form. “ The mucous membrane is con- verted into a dark-red, granulated, and friable tissue, on the surface of and within which suppuration is established.” The burrowing of the ulcers, so as to pass through even the muscular coat, gives rise to sinuses, in the vicinity of which there is often a production of polypoid growths from the mucous membrane. Corrugation of, and pigmentai-y deposit in, the tissues, are constant accompaniments of this process. Cicatrization of the ulcers and sinuses takes place, with formation of the usual fibroid tissue, which by its subsequent contraction may give rise to puckering or obstruction. Parts affected by Catarrhal Inflammation.— Eokitansky states that the most usual seat of catarrhal inflammation is in the ciecum and rectum; we doubt if this is true, if applied both to the acute and chronic forms, for there can be no doubt that, in the majority of instances of muco-enteritis, the small intestines are affected even to a greater degree than the large. He observes himself ‘' that catarrhal irritation, and even inflammation, undoubtedly often affect the duodenal mucous membrane, and are frequently in- duced by an anomalous condition of the bile.” This condition, as Dr. Stokes has observed, “may extend to the biliary ducts and give rise to jaundice. Desides the tumefaction of the mucous membrane, the increased pouring out of mucus, and the enlarge- ment of the glands of Brunner in this situation, we have noticed an atiophy or destruction of the villi, which had lost their sharp exterior margin of limitary membrane, and were shreddy and wasted. The chronic form of catarrhal inflammation does seem to be more frequent in the large intestine; at least, the slaty and black discoloration is more often seen in the ctccum than else- where, but it may admit of some doubt whether this discoloration is a certain sign of previous inflammation, whether a deposit of pigment may not take place here as in the areolar tissue of the lung, or in the skin, without any disease. We have certainly examined instances in which the microscope showed nothing the feast abnormal, except the pigmentary deposit. Affections of the Intestinal Glands. — It seems very doubtful whether there is a distinct affection such as that which has been termed glandular or follicular enteritis. Dr. Copland speaks of it us occurring almost alwip§» consecutively to other diseases as levers continued or remittent, dysentery, and even tuberculosis, rtoxitansky does not seem to recognize its special character, but to consider that the follicles may be more particularly affected in morbid processes of different kinds. In this opinion we entirely coincide, but wish to notice here certain points in the anatomical580 INFLAMMATION OF THE INTESTINE. structure of these parts, which throw light on their pathological changes. The solitary glands of the intestine, which occur both in small and large, as well as their aggregations constituting the patches of Peyer, which do not extend"beyond the ileo-caecal valve, are quite destitute of the follicular character, that is, agree only in name with those glands which are involutions of the general mucous surface, invested by a lining of epithelium. They are Fig. 134. Vertical section of Peyerian patch, and solitary gland of large intestine. The glands in both are rather enlarged. A. Peyerian patch from ileum. b, Solitary gland. simply solid aggregated masses of nuclear particles and lymphatic corpuscles, imbedded in a nucleated stroma, with very little inter- vening granulous matter, and lying completely beneath the sheet of basement membrane that covers the surface. They are not contained in a distinct capsule of homogeneous membrane, but lie partly in the corium of the mucous tissue, partly m that layer of nuclei and granulous matter which is spread under the basement membrane, and forms the chief substance of the villi, to which we <raye some years ago the name of “ substratum. It is apparent from this structural arrangement that they cannot be secreting oi-o-ans like the Lieberkuehn tubes all round them, for they have no outlet. On the other hand, they are from then- very structure peculiarly liable to become enlarged and prominent, the nuclei attracting to themselves plasma, and developing mto cells, so tka the actual number of lymph corpuscles is very greatly mcreasei. There seems no doubt that they are much more developed m some persons than in others, and we are inclined to think that masses of precisely similar appearance may be formed mucous membrane solely as the result of irritation. _ e been led to this belief from having found only a few distant and587 INFLAMMATION OF THE INTESTINE. widely scattered glands in the mucous membrane of some persons, even when it was examined after immersion in acetic acid, which makes them much more opaque and white, while in other cases they were extremely numerous and close together. These structures, both the solitary and agminated glands, are liable to hypertrophic and hyperplastic changes in various morbid conditions of the mucous membrane, which changes are liable, in certain diseases, to end in degeneration and necrosis. Simple inflammation, chronic or acute, of the mucous surface, leads to ' enlargement chiefly of the solitary glands. This may go on to sloughing and ulceration. In tuberculosis of the intestines the lattei changes are the most conspicuous, but here also there is at : first a stage of proliferation and enlargement. In some of the • specific fevers, especially in typhoid, a similar series of changes is ' sGen, chiefly affecting the Peyer’s patches. It does not appear 1 that the process ever precisely resembles suppuration. Dysentery : is accompanied first by enlargement, then by sloughing of the : solitary glands of the colon. Follicular Ulceration of the Colon.—We shall now subjoin Roki- t tansky’s account of “ ulcerative inflammation of the follicles of the colon, such as we find in lientery, brought on by tedious i dianhceas. Ihe lollicles are at first tumefied in various decrees ‘ an(J consequently project as smaller or larger, round, conical : nodules on the internal surface of the intestine, being surrounded t by a daik red vascular halo. Ulceration now ensues in the . interior of the follicle, the small abscess penetrates the mucous membrane within the vascular halo, and a fringed ulcerated open- lna. , e Slze of a millet-seed appears, which leads to a small iolhcular abscess with red spongy walls. The ulceration con- tinues, and the follicle is eaten away,” so that an ulcer of the size ot a pea or lentil is formed. In its further progress the mucous membrane becomes extensively destroyed, and that with great rapidity, the muscular coat being frequently exposed. The most extensive destruction always takes place in the sigmoid flexure and in the rectum. The disease is always confined to the colon,’ out when it runs a very rapid course it may be accompanied bv catarrhal irritation of the small intestine. We have notes of a case in which there were a great number of the so-called solitary lolucles m the lower part of the small and in the large intestine although no irritation had existed during life. Their development eems to depend on some other cause besides mere irritation K thTls- ho doubt, promotes it. It can scarcely be supposed that the Lieberkuehn tollicles^which are mere involuted exten- sions ot the mucous surfinSf should not be affected wherever ■e9seenTialTvUSinmefmbrfne iS’ but 8lands- which differ involved structuro> seem to be by no means necessarily J^rT0m ^Minmation.—We proceed to the rare form of tentis, termed by Cullen E. Phlegmonodea. This, if it deservesINFLAMMATION OF THE INTESTINE. 588 the name of a distinct variety of inflammation, should be described as inflammation of the intestinal walls, since the changes of the mucous membrane are not characteristic. The effects produced by this, which, indeed, are just those of common inflammation, liave already been several times adverted to; but we think it well to subjoin the following excellent description from the pen of Dr. Copland:—“ The villous coat in acute enteritis is not only more vascular and turgid, but it is also softer, and sometimes thicker than natural. If the inflammation has proceeded far, it presents a brick-red tinge, and is easily detached from the subjacent coats, the connecting cellular tissue being soft, turgid, and inflamed. When this state exists in a considerable portion of the tube, the coats are apparently thickened, arising from the extension of the inflammation to the more external tissues, till the attached surface of the intestinal peritoneum is reached. The substance or parietes of the bowels may be considered as affected in these cases, even although the external surface may present no further lesion than red vessels shooting into it. Occasionally, in addition to this state, the red capillaries in the inflamed peritoneal coat are con- nected with the effusion of coagulable lymph, particularly in the parts where they are most numerous, the lymph or albuminous exudation existing in specks, or in considerable spots or patches, on the serous surface. When, however, these latter appearances are remarked, the interior of the inflamed intestine frequently presents more serious changes than yet noticed. The villous sur- face is then deeply inflamed, and seems abraded or excoriated in parts. It is sometimes, in other parts, covered by patches of lymph, or of an albumino-puriform, or muco-puriform fluid, or by a sero-sanious matter; and it is often also eccliymosed in numerous points or specks, or it presents still larger marks of sanguineous infiltration. In other cases, portions of a dark, slate- coloured, or sphacelated hue are observed, with or without ulcer- ated specks, or even large ulcers, which have nearly penetrated as far as the external coat, in adjoining parts.” Sometimes then, ulcers actually perforate the intestinal wall, and give rise to escape of the contents. “ In the forms of enteritis in which the substance of the intestine, or its peritoneal coat, is chiefly affected, either primarily or consecutively, the whole of the coats are often very vascular, red, or of a brick-red colour, and are readily torn.” Suppuration sometimes takes place between the coats, as in an in- teresting case recorded in the Pathological Society’s Eeports, 1851-52, by Dr. Hare. General peritonitis not unfrequently occurs, in which the omentum may markedly participate, becoming greatly thickened and red. Croupous and Diphtheritic Inflammation.—The intestinal mucous surface is sometimes the seat of a kind of inflammatory process which is mostly subacute or chronic, and gives rise to an exuda- tion much resembling that of croup. It is remarkable that the attacks often recur several times, each presenting a stage of irrita-INTESTINAL AFFECTION IN ENTERIC FEVER. 589 tion, which ends in the formation and throwing off of the false membrane, after which there is a pause. The quantity of the exudation varies much in different cases: sometimes it forms a layer of some thickness, extending pretty uniformly over the sur- face, or appearing in the stools as tubular casts of the intestines; sometimes it is as thin as a wafer, or consists merely of tattered shreds. In one case mentioned by Dr. Copland there were also shreds of dysmenorrhoeal false membrane discharged from the uterus, but not at the same time as those from the bowels. Boki- tansky mentions the occurrence of less consistent fibrinous exuda- tions, which probably approach more or less closely to those of diphtheritis. They are. as he observes, “ the expression of a con- stitutional affection,” the results of an altered blood crasis. Such affections are commoner in children than in adults, but are always rare. False membranes, similar in appearance, are sometimes formed in dysentery a disease, which will be spoken of hereafter. The appearances just described are not known to occur in cases of ordinary diphtheria (of the throat), but swelling of the solitary and Peyer’s glands in the ileum has been observed in that disease. INTESTINAL AFFECTION IN ENTERIC FEVER. The changes which take place in the intestinal mucous mem- brane in continued fevers have been most diligently examined, and minutely described by Bokitansky and others, but our limits forbid us to do more than give a short and comprehensive account of the series of morbid changes occurring in typihoid or enteric fever. We observe the following series of changes :—. Hvper,%‘mia to a greater or less extent is set up around the solitary follicles, and^ in and around Peyer’s patches. Enlargement and distension of these glandular structures proceed nearly pari passu vuth the hypertemic congestion. After a certain time, the length of which varies in different cases, the contents of the enlarged glandular masses soften, break down, and are discharged. The cavity which remains on the mucous surface, constitutes the typhoid ulcer, to which Bokitansky attributes the following character:— (1) Its form is elliptical, round, or irregular, and sinuous, accord- ing to the shape of the part which has been affected. Thus, a largo patch, when destroyed, gives rise to an elliptical ulcer; a smaller or solitary gland to a round one; partial destruction of a patch will produce an irregular ulcer. (2) The size of the ulcer varies from that of a hemp-seed to that of a half-crown. (3) those of an elliptic shape are A»ys situated opposite to the inser- tion of the mesentery, and have their long axis parallel to that of J,n“?stlne- The typhoid ulcer very rarely indeed forms a zone, v|ne margin of the ulcer is invariably formed by a well- defined fringe of raucous membrane, which is a line or more wide detached, freely moveable, of a blueish red, and subsequently of aINTESTINAL AFFECTION IN ENTERIC FEVER. 590 slaty or blacldsh-blue colour. (5) The base of the ulcer is formed by a delicate layer of submucous tissue which covers the muscular coat; like the marginal substance, it is quite void of morbid growth. (6) The small intestine is the seat of the ulcerative pro- b cess, and the lower third is most liable to be involved—the number and size of the ulcers increase as they advance towards the ileo-ceecal valve.” We must add with respect to the last character, that the ulcerative process is by no means confined to the small intestine; we have seen the mucous membrane of the large intestine, down to the rectum, riddled with ulcers. They were many of them of large size, and had clean cut, non-thickened margins. This condition, indicating the absence of reparative action, is not nearly so frequent as that of thickening and induration, which generally take place to some extent in the side of the ulcer. The bottom of the ulcer • is commonly formed by the sub- mucous tissue; sometimes the mus- cular fibres are completely exposed. This, however, is generally the result: of secondary advance, subsequent to the expulsion of the morbid products. Rokitansky particularly insists on the point, and we think he is cor- rect, that when an ulcer increases • in depth so as to perforate the intes- tine, it advances not by continued 1 deposition and softening of the same matter as that originally produced, but by simple extension of the ulcerating action. The matter which causes the tumefaction of the agminate and 1 solitary glands chiefly consists of actual multiplication of the corpuscles in the (agminated lymph and solitary) glands accom- panied by a certain amount of exudation; these newly-formed elements seem to be particularly liable to decay, so that a large portion of the mass may be found in the condition of ar degeneration, or converted into amorphous molecular detritus. Black granules and grains of pigmentary matter are often present in it but they are by no means peculiar to the typhoid state. The give’to the glands a black dotted appearance, as seen bv the n^ked eye, and this we have observed more than once after death trom other causes than fever. Typlioid ulcers in small intestine. Death from haemorrhage. The out- line figures represent vertical sec- tions. In the upper figure the mar- gins of the ulcer are thickened; in the lower they are clean cut, as if punched.591 INTESTINAL AFFECTION IN ENTERIC FEVER, Lymphatic Glands.—The mesenteric glands become invariably enlarged in all cases of intestinal affection, just in the same way Fig. 136. Liflamed raesenteric glands in typhoid and so-called typhus matter. At the lower and lett part is represented a small ulcer in the mucous membrane, in which ulcer- ation is seen extending round the central deposit, which is still in situ. as an inguinal gland enlarges when there is a chancre on the glans penis. Their enlargement seems to be simply the result of irrita- Fra, 137. Typhoid Ulcers in various stapes. The outline figures are vertical sections which show a Mnn* the elevation of the mucous membrane by submucous deiiosit W ' Mucou9membrane' Submucous tissue, c, Mu'sculaTooat ^Peritonealcoat.INTESTINAL AFFECTION IN ENTEEIC FEVEE. 592 tion ; wo have found nothing in their substance besides the normal nuclei hut granular and amorphous matter, and some colloid cor- puscles or cells. The vessels of their capsule are generally much congested, as well as those which penetrate their inteiior. l,oki- tansky states that “ the mesenteric glands decrease in size, as soon as the detachment of the intestinal morbid growth has commenced. Of course they must remain for some time more congested with blood and larger than natural, even under the most favourable circumstances. Resolution and Healing.—It by no means necessarily follows that ulceration takes place after a patch or a single gland has been enlarged; the exudation may liquefy and be again ab- sorbed into the blood, and the part return to its normal condition. Cicatrization of the ulcers is not unfrequent, as Sir Thomas AN atson testifies. He says, “The ulcerated surface seems to clothe itself afresh by degrees, with a new mucous membrane, which is thin, however, and adherent to the subjacent tissues, and does not eude over them when pressed between the finger and the thumb, as the healthy portions of the coats of the bowel will do upon each other. And in the place of the cicatrix there is usually to be seen a mam- fest puckering, and a number of little wrinkles or lines, radiating from a common centre.” Rokitansky speaks of the new-formed membrane as a serous lamina, which becomes at its circumference as it were dovetailed in between the muscular and mucous coats. He confirms the observation of Sebastian, that small villi sometimes lorm upon this lamina, even before its union with the mucous membrane. In most instances, however, the absence of villi forms one oi the distinctive features of a cicatrix. We feel much hesitation in accepting Rokitansky’s absolute assertion, that the cicatrix of a typhus ulcer never in any way gives rise to a diminution of the calibre of the intestine. Dr. Carswell speaks positively of the occurrence of fatal ileus in persons who had suffered some months before from typhoid fever, the cicatrix of an ulcer bemgfound after death, which had destroyed the muscular coat around the whole circumference of the tube. . Secondary Ulceration.—Instead of cicatrization, or even when partial healing has taken place, the ulceration sometimes extends in a remarkable and irregular manner from its ongmal scat by a simpler process of destruction than that by which the typhoid utaers were originally formed ; and this secondary ulceration has even been compared to gangrene. The ulcers thus produced which might bewailed “post-typhoid” ulcers,are quite irregular in shape, and have not the typical characters of „iVen above. Dicers of the colon met with in typhoid fever •nniptir to bo ofton ol tbis kind. i ^Consequences of Typhoid Ulcers.-Perforation and hemorrhage the two most formidable results of typhoid ulcers The former may take place at any period of the disease, but rarely593 TUBEKCTJLAR DISEASE OF THE INTESTINES. happens before the complete separation of the slough, since it depends on an extension of the" morbid process to deeper parts than its original seat. According to Dr. Murchison, perfora- tion may occur in three ways, either(1) by rupture of the attenuated coats; (2) by continuance of the ulcerative action leading to a pin-hole perforation; (3) by sloughing of the entire thickness of the bowel and dropping out of the sloughs. Trousseau declares that “most commonly, the blood is exhaled by the mucous surface, just as in epistaxis” (vol. i. p. 230). Hrnmor- lkage may occur apparently from mere excessive hyperiemia in early stages, or from the margin of the ulcers, but the most severe bleedings occur when the progressive ulceration has reached some comparatively large vessel, which may sometimes be seen distinctly eroded on the floor of the ulcer. TUBERCULAR DISEASE OE THE INTESTINES. Tubercle selects the small and large intestines not unfre- quently as its seat of deposit. It is met with more frequently f1 A *ien th,n- m aduits> ib the proportion of sixty-one to forty-three, and is more than twice as frequent in the small as m the large intestines. In the majority of cases the affec- r°* 0f ^Stines is secondary to that of the lungs, and Usually takes place after the tubercles in the latter have begun to suppurate, and the cachexia has become fully developed The course of intestinal tuberculosis is “frequently chronic, but much often acute. The seat of the deposit is the submucous tissue or the conum of the mucous membrane, it is certainly subjacent to the basement membrane, and not contained in the follicles as rfi. Carswell taught. llokitansky states that there is, in the chronm form ‘ no perceptible inflammatory action, and the disease appears in the shape of the grey transparent granulation, whicn sottens at its centre, and is gradually converted from within out- Wdids, into the yellow cheesy tubercle. It seems blended with the mucous membrane, and projects into the intestinal cavity in the dPe 0 a sessile, hard nodule. Considerable inflammatory action afrends upon acute tuberculosis. The disease affects first Peyer’s Dm hes, then the solitary glands, and lastly, other parts of the someUf jrT6' Theafi'ect|0n of the P°yer’s patches is often partial, some fomcles escaping altogether, while adjacent ones are in an advanced stage of disease. The affected follicles enlarge and 8urr'a0 ipfiltrated with small cells, which are also found in the then'Tvenow^8' *,olllclu 18 at fir?t Srey and translucent, bon a yellow opaque speck appears m the centre, the caseous ange spreads through the mass, aud at length softening coni mences, which spreads from the surface, so that £ Peverfs glands several small ulcers are formed, while tho solitary glands q a59-1 TUBERCULAR. DISEASE OF TIIE INTESTINES. are destroyed and converted each into one ulcer. The vails being infiltrated with small cells, which are often collected into roundish granulations, or tubercles, pass through the same series of changes, and ulceration thus extends in an irregular manner beyond the original follicles, till the form of the original structure is quite lost. It may happen that the affected part is so com- nletelv destroyed that no intermediate stages are seen, and then (as in tubercular ulcers of the larynx) it is difficult to distinguish them from simple ulcers. . .. , The surrounding tissue is hypermmic, red, and swollen, and the margin of the ulcer firmly attached, rounded and indurated; its base? usually formed by condensed areolar tissue, may contain or not tuberculous matter. The enlargement of the ulcer m depth and in extent is thus effected by a process of essentially the same kind as is observed in cavities of the lung. The margin and the base become infiltrated with tuberculous products which soften and decay, and so the destructive process continually advances. It thus"* penetrates the muscular coat which becomes studded with granulations, formed, according to Klebs and others, m tne lymphatic vessels, and finally may reach the serous covering, and produce a crop of granulations on the peritoneal surface lius may be the starting point of general tubercular peritonitis, but the peritoneal tubercle is, on the other hand, very often primary. Perforation of the intestinal wall sometimes occurs, the ulcer retaining throughout its original character, in whicn respect it differs from the typhoid. The fatal event is often prevented by timely exudation of fibrine on the serous surface, winch either thickens the wall or else unites it to an opposing surface, air. Ancell contests the statement that the tuberculous ulcer alwayi retains its original character, he does not beheve that uicerafao the result of tuberculosis, are always produced by the deposit ot tubercle. He views them as the result of “ the ulcerous diathens of the disease.” We have noticed above the only ground which eXThe mesenteric glands are enlarged by the special deposit, and often to considerable size. This, however, it may be steted,^ not the essential circumstance in the disease formerly ca^c . m Tuberculous ulcers heal by a cessation of the morbid depo^ taking place, and subsequent effusion of plastic fluid, whic organized into the cicatrix tissue before described. The contraction ofgthis, if the ulcer has been of a large size, or ^nded roimd^ intestine, may cause more or less contraction of its ca • f culous disease generally, but not always, selects the lower' part the ileum as the seat of its chief ravages; it oftener d^cends, we think, to the caecum and colon than extends m 1 dl Intestinal tubercle is nearly always ^^^^^tretiwd lungs, and it has been suggested by Ivlebs thaTUBERCULAR DISEASE OF THE INTESTINES. 595 disease is produced by swallowing morbid products derived from phthisical lungs, a hypothesis also supported by the fact that tubercle in the intestines tends so strongly to spread downwards. Peritoneal tubercle seems to have but little tendency to produce the same disease on the mucous surface. Distinction between Tubercular and Typhoid Intestinal Ulcers. Since these are both found in the same parts of the intestine, and have many points of similarity, it is important to be able to dis- tinguish them, but sometimes difficult. The chief points to be regarded are the following :—(1) Form. Typhoid ulcers are more often oval, with the long axis in the direction of the bowel, corre- sponding to the shape of the Peyer’s patches, and even when they start from the solitary glands, extend down rather than round the intestine. They do not often extend beyond the boundary of a Peyer's patch. These characters, however, only hold good in comparatively recent ulcers ; when they have existed a long time (two months or more from the commencement of the fever) their shape may become very irregular. Tubercular ulcers, on the other hand, seldom correspond in outline to the Peyer’s patches, and, if oval, the long axis of the ellipse more often goes round the intes- tine than down it. They often extend beyond the margin of the patch, even without involving the whole of it. When starting from the solitary glands they extend in a quite irregular manner. Their extension seems in fact to be determined rather by the course of the blood vessels, than by the glandular structures, and, as the former encircle the intestine, the ulcers not unfrequently form a com- pete ring. (-) Situation. The typhoid ulcers are always at first situated on the side remote from the mesenteric attachment since the Peyer s and other glands are found there; tubercular ulcers may occur m other parts, even at the mesenteric attachment. (3) colour. In the typhoid process, before ulceration is complete, the necrotic sloughing mass is found stained yellow by feces, or with fecal matter adhering to it, which is not the case with tubercular ulcers (4) Margin. The margins of both are raised, but in the typhoid ulcers, simply swollen and injected; in the tubercular, mmtrated with tubercular or caseous matter, while there are often distinct outlying tubercles. In typhoid the wall is very abrupt or even somewhat overhanging, as may be seen by directing a gentle stream of water upon the ulcer. In tuber- cular ulcers the descent is gradual or by successive steps, (o) bur rounding parts. Actual tubercles are sometimes found m the mucous membrane surrounding tubercular ulcers, or tneir floor, or on the serous covering of the intestine, ’but ,e-' are not constant. They are of course wanting in typhoid an • tllc Peritoneal covering over these is usually natural, ip Cicatrization. Tubercular ulcers form a more decidedly norous cicatrix, and more often lead to contraction of the intes- tine than typhoid. In fact, it is doubtful whether the latter ever cio so.INTESTINAL CHANGES IN DYSENTEUY. 596 These distinctions will generally he sufficient, though cases of difficulty will arise, especially when typhoid ulcers have lasted a long time. The state of the mesenteric glands and of other organs, must then be taken into account. The morbid changes in dysenteiy have their especial seat m the large intestine, the‘'ileum being sometimes (Dr. Copland says very often) involved, but always in a less degree. Our observation quite accords with Bokitansky’s, that, “as a rule its intensity increases from the cLocal valve downwards,” so that the sigmoid flexure and the rectum are found most severely affected. It com- monly runs, Bokitansky says, an acute course, “ though it is fre- quently chronic in the milder degrees; this, however, does not materially alter its character.” Dysenteiy presents itself to the medical observer under a very great variety of forms, but it would be impossible to range the post-mortem appearances m correspond- ing groups. All that can be said in general is, that both the symptoms during life and the textural lesions, will coincide m indicating whether a given case is to he considered of sthenic or asthenic character. Looking then upon dysenteiy generally as inflammation, more or less acute, of the mucous membrane of the large intestine, and premising that it is very prone to pass on into a lingering chronic state, we shaU follow Bokitansky s account of the changes produced by the disease. He considers them " as /ii-rr4c<iViia n-rvfn fmTP natural deerees.” intestinal changes in dysentery. vmcn m a cnroino t the form of open sacs,INTESTINAL CHANGES IN DYSENTERY. 597 which may be easily detached.” The submucous tissue becoming infiltrated, gives rise to more or less numerous protuberances, on the internal surface of the intestines ; these “ correspond to those points of the mucous membrane, at which the morbid affection is most developed,” while in the intervening portion there is not much change beyond slight redness and swelling. The intestinal cavity is dilated by the pressure of exhaled gas upon the semi- paralyzed muscular coat, and contains a mixture of effused lymph and blood, together with mucous liquid and feces. Dr. Baly marks his second degree by the sloughing of the solitary glands, either principally or equally with the surrounding mucous mem- brane. In this way are formed either clear circular ulcers of various depth, or large excavations. The prominent rugae are chiefly affected. Rokitansky also remarks, that the affection of the follicles may predominate, and states that the anatomical con- dition is the same as that already described in connection with catarrhal inflammation as attendant upon lientery. In the third stage the protuberances are set more closely together, the mucous membrane investing them partly retains the same condition as in the former, partly ” is converted into a slough, which is here and there blended with desquamated epithelium “ and the exudation, and is firmly attached to them; it is of a dark-red, or blackish-brown, or greyish-green colour.” In some cases the infiltrated and thickened submucous tissue is in great part exposed, being covered here and there by the remnants of the mucous mem- biane, “in the shape of solitary, dark-red, flaccid, and bleeding vascular tufts, or as dilated follicles, which are easily removed.” .he protuberances are occasionally found to have coalesced, and the intestine then presents an uneven plicated surface, accompanied by an equal degree of infiltration and thickening of its parietes ; the mucous membrane is uniformly affected over a large extent, and tfieie are no free interstices. The contents of the intestine are of a dirty brown or reddish ichorous, foetid, flocculent, and grumous character. In the fourth and highest degree, the mucous membrane degenerates into a black, friable, carbonified mass, which may often be subsequently voided in the shape of tubular laminae (so-called mortification of the mucous membrane). The submucous cellular tissue appears to be previously infiltrated with venous blood, or a sero-sanguinolent fluid; or it is pallid, and the blood contained in its vessels is converted into a black, solid or pulveru- lent mass; subsequently it shows purulent infiltration, in conse- quence of the reactive inflammation which is induced in the lower, Healthy strata, for the purpose of eliminating the gangrenous portions. Dr. Baly’s third degree seems to correspond to the fourth or Kokitansky, he describes the mucous membrane as converted into a gangrenous slough, glands and all alike, the blood bein'* ark and coagulated in the submucous tissue. The prominent rugic are first and most severely affected, the intervening portions598 INTESTINAL CHANGES IN DYSENTERY. being swollen and red. All tbe coats sometimes are much softened, and the submucous tissue becomes sloughy. The changes just enumerated as occurring in the most extreme degree ol the dis- ease, are of much the same kind as those which Dr. Copland describes to take place “ in the most malignant varieties, and in the scorbutic complication. The internal surface ol the whole digestive tube is,” in these cases, “of a livid purple, or dark colour, with patches of ecchymoses, excoriation, ulceration, and sphacelation. The viilous coat, particularly m the seat of ecchy- moses, may readily be rubbed off; and the ulcers have a foul and dark appearance. The liver is sometimes large, soft, and spongy; at others, pale and soft, especially in cases where the loss of blood has been very large. The spleen is sometimes so softened as to appear semi-fluid or sphacelated. The heart is often partially softened or flaccid ; the pericardium and pleural cavities containing a bloody, dark, and dirty serum. The lungs are often congested; the bronchial lining dark or ecchymosed ; and the blood, in ail the large vessels, is semi-fluid, black, and of a. very loose texture. “ In prolonged inflammatory cases, thickening and almost cartil- aginous induration of a considerable part of the colon are not unfrequent, the thickened or indurated portion being also con- tracted in calibre. In such cases, the parts above the contraction are greatly distended, the coats being thinned, ulcerated, and even lacerated;” so as to give rise to effusion and fatal peritonitis. The darkly-congested mucous membrane is often discernible through the peritoneal and other coats, especially if, as is oiLen the case, the intestine is distended. In the severer cases the serous membrane is dulled and discoloured, and sometimes covered with a brownish ichorous exudation. The mesocolic lymphatic glandb are swollen and congested. In the dysentery which occurs in this country, abscess of the liver is rare; a case, however, is recorded m the Report of the Pathological Society, 1 Sol-52. Dr. Baly has never met with it during his experience at the Millbank Peniten- tiary, where the disease is very common ; but m India it is said to occur in nearly half the cases. We have recorded, m the Report of the Pathological Society, 1817-48, an instance m which the destruction of the mucous membrane was confined to the interstices of numerous prominences or ridges, these being themselves t sole remnants of the mucous tissue. This is the converse of the more usual condition, in which the prominent parts are moso affected. After extensive ulceration has occurred, reparation be effected in the usual way by organization of plastic exudation into a smooth fibroid layer which constitutes, a cicatiix. . » nrobably may be covered after a time by an epithelial layer, it has not been shown yet that the follicles of Lieberkue n reuroduced. When extensive destruction of substance has a- ulace the cicatrix tissue “ is frequently condensed into fibrous bands which form corded projections into the intestinal cavity, interlace with one another, and not unfrequently encroach up599 IN TESTIN'All CHANGES IN SPECIFIC DISEASES. tlie calibre of the intestine in the shape of valvular or annular folds, thus giving rise to a stricture in the colon of a very peculiar form.” Instead of reparation taking place, the disease may con- tinue in a chronic though altered form ; the remaining mucous membrane being in a state of chronic catarrhal inflammation, and the intervening parts being the seat of suppuration with formation of sinuses and abscesses. Dysentery, as described above, is undoubtedly a specific disease ; probably in most cases, some persons would say in all, communi- cated by infection. It has many points of resemblance to diph- theria, so that some have spoken of it as intestinal diphtheria. INTESTINAL CHANGES IN SPECIFIC DISEASES. Intestinal Changes in Scarlatina.—The agminated and solitary glands of the ileum are found in some cases of scarlet fever enlarged and vascular, as in early stages of the typhoid change. More rarely the process goes on to actual ulceration. It is pro- bable that some degree of the same change may accompany other acute febrile diseases. It has been several times observed in diphtheria. * Dr. John Harley f has made an extensive series of observations on the intestinal changes in scarlet fever. He has found in twenty- seven cases out of twenty-eight the Peyer’s patches, especially in the lower third of the ileum, elevated and injected, sometimes swollen like a cock’s-comb, or of a dark purple colour, and occa- sionally almost ecchymotic. The solitary glands of the ileum were, in half the cases, enlarged, granular, and whitish, like sago- grains. In a smaller number of cases the solitary glands of the colon were similarly enlarged, and more rarely the general mucous surface was injected. In one case acute desquamation of nearly the whole of the mucous membrane of the large intestine was observed. He never saw ulceration of the solitary or agminated glands, except in some cases which he regarded as typhoid fever supervening on scarlatina. . Simple or unexplained Ulceration of the Intestines.—Cases some- times occur in which ulcers of the intestines, not unlike those associated with enteric fever, are met with, but where there is no evidence of this disease having existed, nor of any other associated morbid lesions. This may be the case in the ileum or in the colon. Some of these puzzling cases may be found recorded in “ Trans. Path. Soc.,” vol. xviii. pp. 101-104, by Dr. Whipham and Dr. Dickinson ; who observed numerous ulcers in the colon, for which no cause except chronic constipation could be assigned. Intestinal Changes in Cholera.—The appearances in this disease * Cayley, “ Trans. Path. Soc.,” vol. xvii. p. 123. + “ Med-Chir. Tians.," vol. Iv. p. 103.GOO INTESTINAL CHANGES IN SPECIFIC DISEASES. are variable, and in rapid cases, dying in the stage of collapse, very slight changes only are sometimes seen. The mucous mem- brane is injected, sometimes very brightly, and oedematous. The solitary follicles and also the Peyer’s patches, especially the former, are often enlarged, of a whitish colour, and firmer consistence than in simple catarrhal conditions. Occasionally ulceration occurs and small follicular ulcers are formed, while the process may, in the colon, extend so as to form wide shallow ulcers (Klebs). Patches of false membrane, resembling those of diphtheria, are sometimes met with in later stages; they are described as firmly adherent and not removed without some lesion of the mucous membrane. The contents of the intestines after death from cholera have been very carefully examined. They are chiefly made up of a large quantity of very watery fluid, holding in suspension flakes of mucus, large quantities of detached epithelium in the form both of separate cells and continuous layers (chiefly in small intestine); obscure, finely-divided granular matter: and certain peculiar organized bodies, regarded as vegetable parasites. This agrees with the composition of the well-known “rice-water" stools passed during life; except that the latter contain no epithelium, which is therefore probably detached by post-mortem maceration. The liquid portion, as has been pointed out by Klebs, agrees very closely in the composition with the secretion poured out in the ileum after the section of the intestinal nerves (by Moreau), con- taining about eleven to fourteen per mill, of solid parts, of which three to six are organic and eight inorganic. It contains in solu- tion chiefly chloride of sodium with little potash or phosphoric acid and usually urea. The organized bodies found both in the intestinal contents and the stools appear to belong to a species of fungus; sometimes thought to be the actual cause of the disease. Cholera Fungus.— Many observers, of whom the earliest were Budd, Brittan and Swayne, in 1849, the latest Beale, Klob, Hallier and Thome, have observed some form of fungus in choleraic stools. The forms usually seen are those of cysts or sporangia, containing spores which ultimately escape by rupture of the envelope. The cysts are found detached or connected in rows. According to Hallier, a form of jointed fungus may be obtained by cultivation from choleraic stools which produces sporangia precisely similar to these ; and from the spores the fungus itself may be reproducer. He compares the fungus to certain forms parasitic upon grasses ; and as it is different from any European form, he suggests that n may be derived from an Asiatic form parasitic on rice. Beside the special forms of parasite above described, ordinary bacteria (or micrococci) and sarcinse are found in the evacuations, but there is no reason for ascribing to them any special relation to the disease. . . , Intestinal Changes in Leuchcemia.—The follicles of the intestinal tract show their connection with the lymphatic system by some- times participating in the changes which lymphatic structuresINTESTINAL CHANGES IN SPECIFIC DISEASES. 601 undergo in this disease (p. 73). The change consists, usually, merely m enlargement, by multiplication of the lymphatic cor- puscles, but distinguished (according to Klebs)‘ from simple enlargements by their softer consistency and greyish colour. The cell-production often appears to extend beyond the boundaries of the original follicle, and, in a few cases, as in one figured by Vir- chow (Krankh. Geschwiilste, II. 569), actual ulceration has been seen. In this case, cellular infiltration extended through the walls of the intestine almost to the serous covering, and produced fiat varied patches on the mucous surface, which were in great part ulcerated, so that they much resembled tubercular ulcers. There were, besides, the usual leuchaemic swelling of the spleen, and lymphatic masses in the liver and kidneys. Similar ulcers have been seen in the duodenum. . it is interesting that very similar products have been observed m the intestine in a case of general lymphatic enlargements and growths, (constituting the disease known as Adenie, Pseudoleu- ktemia, or Hodgkin’s disease,) unaccompanied by increase of white corpuscles. Lymphatic new formations were found in the liver, kidneys heart, and other organs, as well as in the duodenum, where the growth formed a mass more than an inch and a quarter in thickness, chiefly m the mucous coat, but partly proceeding from the cytogenous or adenoid tissue lying under the basement membrane. Smaller masses occurred at intervals, both in the small ana large intestine, and were, in all cases, composed of lymphatic corpuscles, held together by a stroma. Syphilitic Affections of the Intestinal Canal— Syphilis very rarely aflects amy part of the intestines except the rectum, where two ,as<\ aro met Wlth. viz., ulceration and stricture. Syphilitic ulcerations much resemble, according to Virchow dysentenc ulcers but are distinguished partly bv their more uniform and level ulceration, partly by their situation, which is near the anus and not m the upper part of the rectum or sigmoid flexure. He thinks it uncertain whether they begin with condv- lomatous or gummatous growths, or whether they are, as some •mnk, local, that is, primary affections. The fibrous scars of these ulcers give rise to formidable strictures of the rectum. hori ° vl i°f °tb»r palits of tbe intestine have been found in new- m afb6ildreTvil [eCt,id Wlt,h heredltai7 syphilis, and, in a few cases, man • 1 v Klebs descnbes a case of an undoubtedly syphilitic p ln , om V'oye found some considerable ulcers near the tiep- in,..;1,.--e and low®r; Part of ileum, almost surrounding the parts VbnarnF; ^hlle numerous small ulcers existed in other with Vil 1 ous^projection™ 8 ^ *** thQ edg6S AVer° besot * Murchison, “Trans. Path. Soc.,” yol. xx. p. 1S8.602 TUMOURS AND NEW GROWTHS OF THE INTESTINE. Fatty tumours, sessile or pediculated, occur in the intestinal canal; they originate in the submucous tissue, where fat vesicles always exist, and grow inwards, Serous and Jibro-serrous cysts aie met with but very rarely between the intestinal coats. Fibroid nodules, not exceeding the magnitude of a pea, are sometimes found in the submucous tissue. In a case recorded by Dr. Duck- worth, four fibrous tumours, from the size of a bean to that of a walnut, were found in a dilated portion of the ileum. ( Trans. Path. Soc.,” vol. xvii. p. 125.) Calcareous concretions, formed by the deposition’of earthy matter in new-formed fibroid tissue, in obsolete tubercle, or desiccated pus, or fibrinous exudation, occur very rarely. Eokitansky describes erectile growths to exist in the intes- tinal canal, either in the form of sessile tumours or pediculated polypi. We are not sure whether he would include under thus head instances of fibrous polypi, such as two recorded by Mr. P. Hewett, in the Report of the Pathological Society for 1846-4/, which, though of marked fibrous structure, were livid in appear- ance, and pretty plentifully supplied with blood-vessels. I he presence of these polypi may give rise to invagination and its consequences. . , Cancer not uncommonly attacks the intestinal canal; it is far more frequent in the large than in the small intestines; out of 3to fatal cases from this cause, in 221 the disease was located m the rectum. It is almost always primary, but sometimes arises by extension from neighbouring organs; and very rarely secondary a-rowths occur in the mucous membrane, or in the Peyer s glands. Dr Walshe seems to consider the small intestines to be more frequently affected than Rokitansky does; the latter says that “ the colon is almost exclusively the seat of cancerous degeneia- tion ” while “ the small intestine is scarcely ever the primary seat of cancer, except in the case of acute and extensive encephatod disease.” In the Report of the Pathological Society for 184,-48, there is recorded one case of cancer (colloid) of the small interlines and mesentery, and four of the ccecum, colon, and rectum, fhe duodenum and upper part of the jejunum are the parts of the small intestine most frequently affected, the rectum and sigm flexure those of the large which most frequently suffer. Wr. Curling has met with an instance of epithelial cancer in the coat- of the intestine. When the disease has its seat m the redturn, it most usually occurs at from two to three inches above the anu according to Dr. Walshe, and tends to spread upwards rather than d°Cancer^of the intestines appears to occur in the same formss aa m the stomach, viz., scirrhus, medullary, colloid, cylinder-celled epi thelioma; and in the rectum, flat-celled epithelioma. 1 e ca described’ as medullary commence in the submucous tissu ,TUMOURS AND NEW GROWTHS OF THE INTESTINE. 603 often grow in a ring all round the bowel, which then usually be- comes constricted, though, occasionally, on the other hand, dila- tation takes place. Ulceration is produced on the mucous surface, and sometimes the growth projects into the cavity of the intestine! Extending also outwards, it infiltrates the whole wall and pene- trates to the peritoneum, where large masses are sometimes formed; so that it may be difficult to say whether the growth originated in the bowel or the peritoneum. Adhesions to neighbouring parts also formed. Under the name medullary have, doubtless, are been included many tumours which would now he called round- celled sarcoma, or lympho-sarcoma. This form of cancer is found most frequently in the rectum, next in the sigmoid flexure or other parts of the colon; very rarely in the small intestine. Scir- rhus is far commoner in the rectum than the form just described, and is only occasionally found m other parts. Its course is gene- rally the same as that of medullary, except that it forms a firm fibrous stroma, which always causes great contraction of the . bowel, and that there is beside much fibrous or muscular hvper- trophy in surrounding parts ; so that scirrhus of the rectum" may come to have a striking resemblance to scirrhus of the pylorus. Colloid cancer is more common in the intestines and peritoneum ithan anywhere else in the body. It forms fiat masses, or, some- times, complete rings, causing obstruction. In its manner of growth and consequences it agrees generally with medullary and scirrhus. According to Blebs, it is most often found at the hepatic flexure of the colon, and at the ileo-csecal valve. Cylinder- celled epithelioma is, perhaps, the commonest form of cancer in all parts of the intestine, and is very nearly allied to simple glandular tumour or adenoma. This forms tumours of moderate hardness, sometimes white, opaque, and medullary sometimes translucent, so as even to approach colloid in appear- ance. It causes great contraction of the intestine. On micro- scopical examination this form of cancer is found to be made up icmefly of cylindrical epithelium, arranged much in the same manner as m intestinal glands. We have seen it in the duodenum and in the colon. A remarkable case from the duodenum is ^escribed by Mr. Coupland (“ Trans. Path. Soc.,” vol. xxiv. p. 103). secondary tumours sometimes occur in the liver and lungs, which esemble the primary in structure. Some cases of this have been * -lescnbed. as medullary. lUu or pavement-celled epithelioma is only found in the it 'ectum near the anus. An ossifying cancer from the rectum is described by Mr Wa"- ■ Pa*h- VoL xx‘ P' ^6). It appeared to be an , n° seirl'hus, but the case is of extraordinary rarity. bonserjuences of Intestinal Cancer.—When any cancerous growth uad'n Ti a-n annFlar form encircling the intestine, it produces xn.nfTu’ ?n9reasino constriction, which may advance to such an cent that the canal is reduced to the diameter of a goose or evenMORBID CONDITIONS OF G04 a crow-quill. A tuberiform growth, occupying only one side of : the intestine, also gives rise to considerable constriction ; but this is not so great generally as in the former case. The narrowing of f the passage, it is manifest, will be greatest -while the growth remains in its original (crude) state; but if, as not unfrequently happens, sloughing and ulceration take place in the morbid mass, the obstructed passage will be again more or less reopened. In many cases, however, the obstruction to the passage of the contents is such that the portion of the canal above the structure becomes immensely dilated, with its muscular tunic much hypertrophied, and its mucous on the contrary sometimes thinned, while that below contracts upon itself and becomes very small. Death often takes place in cases of intestinal cancer from the supervention of ileus and inflammation. The ileus is set up not only in consequence; of the stricture preventing the passage of the contents of the bowel, for it may ensue when the canal is still tolerably pervious;; but from the paralyzed condition of the walls of the intestine in the- dilated and distended part, and from the masses of the fecal matter: which accumulate there. Inflammation attacks first the dilated! part of intestine, “ and is there most intense. This portion is dis- coloured, of a dark blue or reddish aspect, its coats are infiltrated, with blood; the serous lining covered with exudation is easily- detached, the muscular coat is discoloured and friable; the mucous membrane, owing to its distension, is devoid of plicre, villi, or follicles; dark red, distended at some parts with coagula, and. siouahy.” There is usually ulceration of a portion of bowel thus distended; sometimes perforation and its consequences take place- MORBID CONDITIONS OF PARTICULAR PARTS OF THE INTESTINES.- Typhlitis, Perityphlitis.—'The frequent occurrence of catarrRal inflammation in the caecum has been already mentioned ; hut Eokitansky directs attention to a particular form which he tenm Typhlitis stercoralis, indicating thereby its production by accumula- tion of indigestible and ftecal matters in this situation. Sedentary non OI linages uiuio aiiu icceax — . . , f. habits and “rheumatism” of the muscular coat of the bo web are also stated to be causes of the disease. We believe tbe proximate cause to be atony of the contractile fibres. ‘ Kemovai of the accumulated feces, and avoidance of fresh ^cumula- tions, generally suffice to establish a cure. If this is not eflec ulcerative destruction of the mucous membrane, and continue sinuous suppuration of the muscular coat, result. In tins ma™ rapid perforation of the intestinal parietes, and especially ot tn posterior side, may follow, either inducing extensive inflammation ichorous destruction of the cellular tissue in the iliac and regions, and death; or giving rise to general peritonitis trom transmission of the inflammation to the serous membrane. TnflTmmation sometimes attacks the lax cellular tissue which lie,PARTICULAR PARTS OF THE INTESTINES. G05 : between the posterior surface of the caecum and the iliac fascia and is apt to pass into suppuration, a condition which has been called peri- typhlitis. In many instances it is doubtless setup by pre-existimr ’ PerhaPs chronic inflammatory disease of the bowels; but in others it occurs idiopathically, or metastatically as Rokitansky states. A calculus descending along the ureter has given rise to abscess in • this ^nation The purulent matter diffuses itself often for some considerable distance beneath the serous membrane ; it has been known to make its way up as high as the kidney, and as low as the interspace beneath the rectum and bladder. 'The abscess often opens mto the caecum, and also externally. When the catarrhal .affection of the caecum exists in a chronic form, it may cause the condensation of the surrounding cellular tissue, and shrivelling of the intestine itself, so that it “is found converted into a slate- feoffs eggff16’ 1 denSe panGtes> the size of a walnut or of a The cavity of the vermif. appendix often affords lodgment to indurated, pellets of faecal matter, cherry-stones, or othe“ such bodies, which cause irritation and inflammation, thickening of can he ^otf?d bofqUe^ ll^eviit]on- If the imitating substance can be &ot rid of, and the ulceration ceases, the appendix , ^nrels entaely, or in part, according to tho oxtenfof tto ■mischief, assuming a lead or slate colour? lu two very into „ i i i Vs 148, the vermiform appendix protruded as a hernia and had undergone ulceration in this situation. In the first after an abscess and sinuses had been laid open, a small piece of bone of triangular shape, and with sharp angles was discharged and recovery very quickly took place. Death occurring from a^ifferent TW>.d m qUaurty’ and Was gently of a pale I bat the appendix health^^T exha{ls<?on> aud it was found i ts blind h althy m structure all the way down to near | i Was ulcerated at about half an inch from tHs i m'011 interior lad tats: ptrz jffss rzrtrMORBID CONDITIONS OF (306 caecum, and the foreign body has thus escaped without affecting the peritoneum. We have also seen a case in which a fish-bone, lodged in tho vermiform appendix perforated the wall, and also a nart of the peritoneum to which it was adherent behind, so as to penetrate into the post-peritoneal tissue, and there produce an abscess, while the peritoneum was unmjured 1 ins have some- times been found in this appendix mcrusted with faecal matter. In j one such case the irritation thus caused seemed to have set up a sort . of pyaemia and given rise to multiple abscesses in the liver ( Trans. Path Soc. ” vol. xxi. p. 231). Eokitansky mentions a curious- accident of a different kind which sometimes befallsthei appendix. Tts canal gels blocked up at a certain part by a foreign body with- out ulceration taking place. In consequence of this the mucous- secretion accumulates in the closed receptacle, which it distends into a kind of dropsical pouch lined by a thm serous-like membrane. Affections of the vermiform appendix are very much more frequent in the male sex than the female, in forty-six cases out of- fifty-two, according to Dr. Crisp. , • -u Dr. Crisp gives the following enumeration of the foreign sub- stances found in thirty-two casesIn seventeen, concretions of- S St -, i« three! heirs or bristles; in two, bone; m two . pin - and in the others, a human tooth, a cherry-stone, the shcn of a hard nut, fig-seeds and raism-seeds, while m three it waa unknown (“ Trans. Path. Soc.,” vol. x. p. 152.) . Perforating Ulcer of the Duodenum.—'This form of ulcer requires some special notice. It much resembles the round perforatmd ulcer of the stomach, and being found m a part where gastric fluid must often penetrate probably owes its existence in part to cor- rosive action. These ulcers are usually circular, sometimes exn. tended in the transverse direction, and rarely surroundmg the bowel. They may cicatrize, forming a contracting which causes stricture of the duodenum or of ^^thoutani chus. The edges are often perfectly smooth and ™out an. thickenin" They are most frequently situated m the first par of the duodenum, and it has seemed to us, generally on th. superior or anterior aspect. Perforation takes place in a con- very vigorous man is recorded m the o museum o (vol xix p. 236), and a specimen is preserved m the B £ Mary’s Hospital from the body of a gentleman who w^tak^ ill while walking in the streets, and occur mor perforation of such an ulcer. Ibis attocuon isPARTICULAR PARTS OF THE INTESTINES. 607 frequently in men than women, in the proportion of five or ten to Ulceration of'theDuodenum after Burns.— Mr. Curling, several year* ago, observed that m several cases of death from burns, ulcers were found m the duodenum, and other cases have been subsequently recorded. This association of morbid conditions cannot, howeve/ as ThryiV ILUeL ’ SlnC6 patholo”lsts with unusual experience, such as -Ur. Wilks, have never met with it. Special Affections of the Rectum.— Lacerations of the rectum and anus occasionally take place, all the coats sometimes beSTtorn through, as after a severe labour when the perineumfas oiffte Everrtdf pessary in^hf^v1'U^> “ enla^.ed Prostate, a vesical calculus, o’r L pessary m tne vagina, may all have Ibis ofFani v> i u 1 “ : »*> ^trophy of m^mwm E'faeces bv a streak^,f r,', f ai^ ^e.u Situation on the cylinder of 1 JJ"* “““■ KssurS with such agonizino- paiu duni^dnf* ^ the ’w°rst> beiug attended, known nearlyif,*? Pam during defecation, that patients have been to avold the recurrence of the ■of a narrow fissure “ tho'hrfi ^ aPPeaFanuC0 of these ulcers is that somewhat swollen and callous™ °“ Catarrh T|d the margiu J says llokibinabir i< caiious. auaiili and blennorrhcea ” • ^ueiMS’ri^X1?6? y of the coats, which mucous membrane nv„P^ tel ‘lnd PolyP°us excrescences of the Dr. ConlTnf ,1 \ Vory fre(lUGllt affections of the rectum » pea StS'ofTjS Tarying fr0m . 01 dn eSS. having a broad or very narrow pedicle.008 HAEMORRHOIDS. situated high up or low down, presenting generally a mucous aspect, a pale reddish hue, and a smooth or lobulated surface. A small growth of this kind, which we had the opportunity of examining had t short pedicle, was of the size of a pea rather highly vascular of lobulated aspect. It consisted entirely of Lieberkuehn folhcles, and of low folds or ridges covered with well-marked columnar epithe- lium and mingled with only a small quantity of fibroid tissue. 1 Haemorrhoids depend essentially on a dilated condition of the veins of the rectal mucous membrane, and are in some degree anal j- gous to the common varices of the legs. They are named inter- nal, or external, according as they are situated aboveor below the snhincter Although all take their origm in dilatation of the hemorrhoidal veins, yet in their subsequent progress present different appearances which we pr<d, ^uland first variety sometimes termed manscce, are described ‘ ‘ as fleshy tubercles, of a brownish or pale red colour, situate ^hhm the auus \>r descending from the rectum. They have a somewhat solid or spongy feel; and when divided they present a compact, ot porous and bloody surface. As the blood oozes from the cut surW theybecome pale and flaccid.” Whether internal or external thj often contain a central cavity filled with fluid, or coagulated blood, of a dark colour. ‘ ‘ More frequently there is no regular cavity, the sutoce of the tumour- being as if infiltrated with blood which becomes coagulated and dark; but this appearance is not owing S exrfavasation, but rather to a. dilatation of a vessels which ti-averse the tissue m the direction of the axis of rectum as unon dividing the part longitudinally, numerous darx streaks are seen in its substance, while a section made transver- y 1 show, oily sLu round,8h spooks." ta tumours donate, assuming a conical form with bases larger than their necks. >-ome times blood is exhaled from their surface, sometimes only a serom fluid and sometimes when they are external they are quite • have been large, these flaps continue conspicuou and ^ve^ p«_ caUy inflamed, these tumours become more perm^ent and^M “ The permanent state of the tumouis is ow p- t development of capillary vessel % and lymph becoming organized, tins iattei cucu ‘ found giving rise to the excrescences, or irregular mass ofd Ground the anus in those subject to hemorrhoids & variety of hemorrhoidal tumours mclude^such^s a f J pure dilatation, or varicose state of the veins oi me p»HfEHORRHOIDS. 609 land, from whom we continue to quote, describes them “ as not so disposed to enlarge at particular periods, and as more permanent and less painful than ” the first variety. “ They are commonly of a dark or bluish colour, and soft and elastic to the touch.” They are easily emptied by compression, but quickly fill again. “ They are round and broad at the base, and often distributed in irregular or ill-defined clusters,” which extend often for some way up the rec- tum, sometimes even as far as the colon. M. Begin observes “ that, in most cases, the dilated, superficial, submucous, or sub- cutaneous veins are only the smaller part of those surrounding the rectum. Sometimes the lower part of this in- testine appears as if plunged in the middle of a network of dilated and engorged veins, forming a thick vas- cular ring, the incision or puncture of which may give rise to dangerous haemorrhages.” It in consequence of inflammation or congestion of the varicose vessels, exudations of plastic matter take place around or in the substance of these tumours, they become more solid, and more or less similar to those of the first variety. Sometimes the products of inflammation are deposited within the dilated vessel, which induces its obliteration, and the atrophy of the tumour! Perhaps in some cases the reverse takes place, a vein within an originally solid tumour may become considerably dilated. In short the varieties met with seem chiefly to depend on the predominance of vascular dilatation, or surrounding plastic exudation. A third variety of hremorrhoidal tumours are described as of an erectile character. They are soft and spongy, and of a purplish colour, and give rise to considerable losses of blood. Dr. Colles found in one case “blood-vessels of the size of crow-quills, running for some way down the intestine, then dividing each into numerous ramifications, and each forming by the interfacing of its numerous branches one of these erectile or vascular tumours. The trunks and branches of these vessels were covered only by the linin" membrane of the intestine.” Some htemorrhoidal tumours appear to result from the effusion and coagulation of blood in the sur- rounding tissue. The reality of this occurrence is denied by nokitansky, but we quite acquiesce in the remarks of Mr. H. Lee,* that it is by no means easy to determine whether the delicate, smooth, and shining membrane lining the cavities, in which the coagula are contained, is the lining membrane of the venous system, or one of new formation derived from the blood itself. * “ Med. Gaz.” Aug. 1818. P. R Fir,. 138. A slightly lobulated tumour di- vided in its middle, and the cut sur- faces exposed. It was passed per anum. It seems to have been formed by exudation taking place around varicose dilatations of the veins. The cavities seem to have resulted from the dilatation of mucous follicles.610 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE INTESTINAL CONTENTS. He also notices the effect of hsemorrhoidal tumours on the mucous membrane around them, which is raised and forced down along with them when they are protruded beyond the sphincter, so that at last it becomes permanently relaxed and “ baggy.” The female sex, sedentary occupations, and constipation, are enumerated as the chief cause of hsemorrhoids, to which we should add a plethoric habit, and a lax condition of fibre. It does not appear at all proved that cirrhosis of the liver, or obstructive disease of the heart, has any marked influence in the production of piles, as one would naturally expect. The mucous membrane thinned over an hsemorrhoidal tumour is prone to ulcerate, and the resulting sore, accord,ing to Rokitansky, is characterized by its seat in the vicinity of the sphincters, its irregular shape, its indented and sinuous flabby margin of mucous membrane, and the ridges of similar tissue that surround or pass over it. These ulcers may continue to burrow into the surrounding areolar tissue, and give rise there to abscess, and ultimately to fistula in ano. Fistula in ano.—This, however, more often results from inflam- mation being set up in the deeper-seated tissues, the areolar and adipose, but still in the vicinity of the bowel, which advances to suppuration, and in most cases makes its way first outwardly through the integument surrounding the anus, and afterwards establishes a communication with the cavity of the rectum by a small aperture situated very constantly at the distance of an inch, or an inch and a quarter, from the anus. It does not clearly appear why fistula in ano should occur so often as it does in persons prone to pulmonary tuberculosis, and still less why its existence should be preservative, at least in not a few cases, against the invasion of the dread malady. Cancerous disease attacks the rectum in most of the forms mentioned as affecting the whole intestine ; the only one which it seems desirable especially to notice, is that which gives rise to the annular stricture, -this occurs almost exclusively at the upper portion of the rectum, especially at the junction of the sigmoid flexure; the stnctured part is sometimes unattached, more often firmly agglutinated to the promontory of the sacrum, but is nevertheless pushed down by the fiecal accumulations above, so as to be within reach o examination by the finger. ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE INTESTINAL CONTENTS. Intestinal Gases.—The accumulation of an excessive quantity of qas in the intestinal canal constitutes the most ordinary o of Tympanitis. It often occurs in inflammatory affections o the canal, which induce more or less paralysis of the coa s, i consequence of which the gas is not expelled, but goes accumulating. The gas in the stomach of an executed cnmnai was found by Magendie and Clieyreul to con&ist of atmo^iABNORMAL CONDITION’S OP THE INTESTINAL CONTENTS. 611 air with a part of its oxygen replaced by carbonic acid, and some hydrogen. In cancerous strictures of the pylorus, and in chronic catarrhal states, the gas contains but little oxygen, much carbonic acid (probably also hydrogen and carburetted hydrogen), and constantly also sulphuretted hydrogen. In the small intestines of criminals Magendie and Ohevreul found an abundance of hydrogen and carbonic acid, no oxygen, and a vary- ing quantity of nitrogen. Marchand found in the gaseous contents * of the large intestines carbonic acid, nitrogen, hydrogen, carbu- 1 retted hydrogen, and a small proportion in one case of sulphuretted I hydrogen. That these gases are secreted by the mucous lining pd do not proceed from decomposition of the ingesta, is considered : improbable by Lehmann. We cannot, however, coincide in his opinion, at least to the exclusion of the first-mentioned way of i production, if for no other reasons, on account of the experiment 1 performed by Frerichs, which he himself details, that a portion of intestine emptied of its contents, and isolated from the rest of the ' canal by two ligatures, always became full of gas after being left s some time. Clinical experience also points strongly to the same conclusion. The other view, however, is maintained by all recent : investigators. According to the accurate and classical researches of Planer ’ the gases of the stomach appear to be chiefly air swallowed with the food, which has lost oxygen and gained carbonic acid, possibly ^mixed with a small proportion of gases of decomposition. Thus they are chiefly mtrogen and carbonic acid with a small proportion oi oxygen. r In the small intestine the oxygen fails entirely, but a small : proportion of hydrogen appears, derived from the decomposi- -Uon ot food. In the large intestine are found nitrogen, carbonic acid, some hydrogen, and hydrocarbons, chiefly marsh gas, and rtraces of sulphuretted hydrogen, but the proportions of these depend very greatly upon the food. 1 Stomach. (Planer.) Ileum. (Planer; post-mortem.] I Colon (after Ruge) | obtained during life. N 68-68 79-73 17-50 CO, ch4 H H,S 6 25-20 16-23 40-51 — 4-04 19-77 22-22 6-12 — traces. iompfFt^nt gaVil?ply contained in any cavity of the body soon to consist almost entirely of nitrogen and carbonic acid.612 ABN0RM.1L conditions of tiie intestinal contents. Planer found fifty per cent, of nitrogen in the gas accumulated in the colon above a structure in the sigmoid flexure. Concretions are occasionally met with in the intestinal canal, and in rare instances of very large size. Dr. Monro (Primus) observed some varying from five to eight inches in circumference, and Monro (Secundus) removed one from the colon which weighed four pounds. Sometimes several, as many* as thirty, exist to- gether, but commonly there are not more than two. The colour of the smaller resembles that of iron ochre, the larger are more of a coffee colour, and occasionally whitish. “They are generally found in concentric layers, and are often radiated, sometimes very obscurely, from nuclei. They are more or less porous, either spheroidal or oblong, and vary from the size of a pea to that of a hen’s egg, or still larger.” The nuclei of concretions may ha °-all-stones° fragments of bones, fruit, seeds, &c., round which- saline and animal or undigested matters collect and become con- densed. In Scotland where oatmeal is much used as an article of food the fibres of the husk of the oats have been found to consti- tute a large part, or nearly the whole of the concretion, and in a similar manner chewed paper, the several portions being matted together by mucus with faecal and earthy matter, has been known to cause their formation. Such concretions often exhibit no dis- tinct nucleus. Concretions, which may be mistaken for gab- stones, but which are of a fatty nature, are sometimes voided by persons who suffer from a torpid state of the bowels, and deficient digestive function. Dr. Copland describes them as of a globular form, varying from tli© size of a pea to tliat of a large grape, of a cream colour, slightly translucent, and of the consistence of soft wax. It is probable that these concretions, as well as the evacu- ations of a more fluid fat which occasionally take place, are con- nected in some measure with disease of the pancreas. Observa- tion of disease has in several instances shown the coincidence of the two phenomena, and Bernard has offered a physiological explanation, viz. that the use of the pancreatic secretion is to make the fat contained in the food capable of being absorbed. His results, however, are denied by Frenchs, Bidder, and bchmidt. Blood is sometimes effused in greater or smaller quantities into the intestinal canal. This may result from active or passive hyper- eemia, ulcerations, purpura, scorbutic dysentery, and we have once seen it in a case of death from a severe fall. The parasites of the intestines have already been enumerated. Mucus in any appreciable quantity can scarcely be said to exist in nerfectly healthy intestines; but it is secreted abundantly, a> we have seen, under catarrhal irritation. _ Rokitansky applies it the following epithets in various cases; it is either milky white, vellowish, and purulent, or glutinous, transparent,- ^frcom. Lawny. He also states that there can be no doubt that a peculiar gelatinous constitution of the mucus is the nidm intestinal entozoa, and favours helminthiasis. Under irritationABNOBMAL CONDITIONS OF THE INTESTINAL CONTENTS. 613 of an acute character small membranous patches of mucus are often passed ; we have seen these in a case of dysentery constitu- ting the whole of the scanty evacuation. Between these and the nbnnous tubular formation before noticed there is no very essen- tial difference, and both are to be distinguished from certain mem- branous substances which occasionally appear in the evacuations and may cause some perplexity to ‘the patient and physician! unless then- nature be understood. These are simply the undi- gested remains of some tendinous expansions which contain a great deal of yellow elastic fibre, on which the gastric juice seems to act with much less energy than on the white.CHAPTEB XXXVI. ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE LIVEB. Congenital malformations are rare ; absence of tbe liver is only observed in extreme cases. Sometimes tbe left lobe retains, in a greater or less degree, its foetal proportion to tbe right. Umbilical Vein.—This vessel, so important in foetal life, which ! becoming obliterated forms tbe round ligament of the Ever, sometimes remains pervious, tbougb very small, and iorms a minute channel leading from tbe portal vem to a superficial vein or sinus in tbe abdominal wall near tbe umbilicus. Jften a channel may be traced in tbe ligament from tbe portal vem lor about three or four inches, then becoming obhterated. these con- ditions may become important when in diseases of tbe liver, as- cirrhosis, tbe portal circulation is obstructed, since communication may thus be opened up between tbe portal and systemic circula- tions. It has been generally assumed that this communication must be through a reopened umbilical vem, but Sappey showed I that tbe appearance of such a vein might be produced bv the enlargement of certain small accessory veins, shown by him to ran within the suspensory ligament of the liver, forming an anasto- motic network round the obliterated umbilical vem, and opening either into the still pervious portion of this, or into vein. In several cases of cirrhosis observed by the editor, the explanation of Sappey has proved to be coiuect; but m one cine a vein representing the umbilical vem was found to L as far as the umbilicus, with a calibre equal to that of a swan- (V^Acquircd Malformations.—The practice of tight lacing m ^omen is sometimes the cause of marked deformity m the organ, lower ribs of the right side are pressed inwards so as to indent the outer aspect of the right lobe, causing gr.eat convexity, Jj the lower margin of the lobe projects below them. 1 j * Henle, “ Handbuch der Anatomie,” vol. iii. pp. 371, 3,®% A^atomTand l’Acad de Medicine,” vol. xxiii. p. 269. Cliampneys, “Journal of Anatomy an Physiology,” vol. Yi. p. 417.615 CONGESTION'. the lower margins of both lobes are simply compressed and approxi- mated, so that the whole organ becomes bluntJy conical or almost heart-shaped. These changes are now scarcely seen, except in the bodies of old women. In men the practice of wearing a tight waist-belt may produce a broad white band, with thickening of the capsule, passing hori- zontally across both lobes. CONGESTION. The vascular apparatus of the liver is very large, its capillaries are more capacious than those of most other parts, and the calibre of the portal and especially of the hepatic veins is extremely ample. It is, therefore, capable of containing a very large quantity of blood. Though its surface is closely invested by its capsule, yet this membrane allows of a good deal of distension, and this is also attested by the tortuosities of the arterioles of the surface, which probably exist for the purpose of allowing the vessels to be elongated without injury to their texture. Congestion of the liver may be general or partial. The latter is far the more common condition, and, indeed, in its lower degrees is not morbid. The central parts of the lobules, in perfectly healthy livers, are often seen to be marked by a spot of redness which occupies about the middle two-fourths of the whole diameter. This is produced by the blood, as the circulation gradually failed, having stagnated in the hepatic veins, in their radicles, the intra-lobular veins, and the surrounding capillaries also. Mr. Kiernan named this, “ Hepatic Venous Congestion of the first degree.” When the congestion ex- tends further in the direction backwards, there are seen no longer mere spots of redness, but patches of very irregular shape surrounding, more or less completely, portions that are not con- gested. These portions are situated at the interlobular spaces, where three or more lobules adjoin. Such a condition was named by Mr.^ Kiernan, “ Hepatic Venous Congestion of the second degree.” This may coexist with a perfectly healthy condition of the cells which occupy the meshes of the capillary plexus, hut not unfrequently these are variously altered, and thus give rise to some modification of the appearance. The appearance of the liver greatly depends upon contrast between the central and peripheral portions ot the lobules. This is most marked in the so-called nutmeg ” condition. Conaeguencea of Congestion.—Congestion of the liver, although extreme, does not seem to occasion any structural change, if it is only temporary ; but, if, as in the case of obstructive cardiac dis- ease, it results from a permanent cause, and is, consequently itseii permanent, it produces tho following effects. The distended capillaries, especially the hepatic portion, press on the inter- vening cells; these become, in part, atrophied or stunted—in(ilG CONGESTION. extreme* cases, almost destroyed: in part, they are gorged with yellow matter to such a degree that they appear as opaque masses. The quantity of yellow matter thus formed is far greater than any that exists in healthy states of the organ, and, as some of it is doubtless absorbed and carried into the blood, we find in this circumstance somo explanation of the icteric hue which is so often observed in such patients. The connection which certainly exists between the congestion and the yellow engorgement of the cells, as cause and effect, gives additional support to the opinion that the yellow bile-pigment is a modification of, and derived from, the colouring matter of the blood. Like venous congestion in general, congestion of the liver from cardiac disease, produces first enlargement, which may often be recognized during life, and later on wasting, dependent, doubtless, on the imperfect nutrition of the organ. With this is ■ associated some amount of induration, though less than is pro- • duced by some other causes. Generally at the post-mortem, exami- • nation we find the liver rather small than large, hard, and with i the characteristic nutmeg appearance. ... , ,. Chronic Congestion, Nutmeg Liver.—This consists, m its best marked: instances, of deep reddish-brown congestion, forming patches - and streaks occupying the central parts of the lobules, and sur- - rounded by patches of a greyish, or yellowish white colour. The congested portions are most definitely limited, and the contrast: Fio. 139. Section of liver showing' the nutmeg appearance; the dark parts are the deep red congested central parts of the lobules. between them and the pale parts is extremely striking. This partly depends on the circumstance that the portions thus devou of blood are affected with fatty degeneration or infiltration, a change which, by causing the cells to increase m bulk, occasionsG17 CONGESTION. compression of the intervening capillaries. That this is the true cause of the limitation of the congestion is proved by its exactly ceasing at the inner margin of the zone of fatty degeneration. Generally speaking, fatty change begins in the peripheral parts of the lobules, and it would seem that these portions contain physio- logically more fat than the central portions. Many of the cells in the congested part are seen tilled with dark yellow matter; very many, also, are atrophied, probably in consequence of the blood stagnating in the distended capillaries, while some granular pig- ment is diffused in the surrounding parts. The nutmeg appiearance may be exhibited in some degree by livers which are quite free trom fatty degeneration, but it is never so marked as in the con- dition just described. The correctness of this explanation may be shown by cuttin" a thin shoe of the liver and putting it under a low power of the microscope, or simply hold- ing it up to the light, when Fig. 140. the dark central portions will be seen to be compara- tively transparent, while the peripheral portions are opaque from the abundance of fatty cells. When the venous con- gestion becomes more gene- ral, occupying every part of the liver, the organ pre- sents a deep red colour throughout, though, even in this case, the centres of the lobules present the darkest tint; it is also en- larged often to a greatly increased size, and becomes more firm and prominent, so as to be readily per- ceptible to the touch, below the margin of the ribs, on the right side. The result of injecting a liver which is nearly drained of its blood, as one taken from a slaughtered sheep, is very instructive as to the amount •»f enlargement that may e produced by congestion. The organ swells up as the fluid is £ ana WhT iuJectud of nearly double ite W ’ bred-% more dense and solid, with its thin anterior Tnnrm'n P ominent and hard. Sappey found on weighing livers with the H (a) Section shoving lobules of the liver bounded by marginal zones in a state of fatty degeneration. The interior of the lobules is deeply congested, and contains much dark yel- low pigment m masses, but is less opaque than the marginal portion. (b) Cells loaded with pigment, atrophied cells and granular matter from the interior of the lobules.INFLAMMATION OF THE LIVES. G18 1. Solitary, or Tropical Abscess.—Iho iormei rareij u vessels empty, and afterwards filled with water by injection, that there was a gain of weight amounting on the average to one-third. Such a state may well produce a sense of weight and fulness m the right hypochondrium. ,. . Causes of Congestion.-The most frequent cause of congestion to any degree that can be considered morbid is organic disease of the heart, especially such as produces great obstruction to thecircula- lation, and throws the blood back upon the right side of the heart, and the venous system in general. All causes of apncea produce the same effect, and act in the same way. Congestion thus induced is passive; active congestion takes place m inflammation of the liver, or, as we have observed, when large doses of calomel are administered. Active congestion may be produced also by various irritants, as alcohol, and is in some degree physiological, as an accompaniment of the digestive process. The congestion occurs in the cold stage of ague and other fevers seems to depend not solely on the recession of the blood from the surface, but chiefly on paresis of the vasal nerves of the organ. Portal venous congestion is a rare variety of partial: the centre* of the lobules are pale, and are surrounded by continuous red zones. It is said to occur in children only. Ecemorrhagic effusion may take place as the result of extreme congestion, but this is rare ; the blood may be poured out either on the surface, detaching the capsule for some ^tent, or d^r in the substance of the organ. The former occurrence Rokitansky states is most common in new-born infants, and may er0n proceed to such an extent as to rupture the serous investment, and allo , the escape of blood into the peritoneal cavity. The deep-seated extravasations occur more frequently m adulte tom the super- ficial, and constitute apoplectic spots of various forms and size. After their partial absorption a fibrous cicatrix remains. Haemorrhage in the substance is sometimes seen in ^curvy purpura haemorrhagica. Severe bleeding into t e P®n °° f follows rupture of the liver, and maybe the unmediate came of death. Nevertheless, even this may be healed, and recovery ta place. INFLAMMATION OF THE LIVER. Inflammation may affect either the substanra of the orcan, chiefly Hepatitis, or its capsule Perihepatitis. The foimer , temperate climates, a rather rare affection, the latter extremely common. The only well-marked form of acute inflammafaon of SrSver is the purulent. Other affections, sometimes called inflammation, appear to be better described as egen^^ ^ Purulent hepatitis, or abscess, occurs m two forms ( ) . tropical abscess ; (2) multiple, or occurs in this619 INFLAMMATION OF THE LIVER. country, except in persons coming from tropical climates It is common m India. The early stages of this affection are not well known. _ When suppuration has occurred an abscess will be found varying in size, sometimes involving nearly the whole of the liver ’ its inner surface either ragged cr lined by a smooth “ pyogenic ’’ membrane. The surroimding tissue may show no change "except simple congestion. This form of abscess occurs more often in the right lobe than the left. It may open into the peritoneum or pleura • or more rarely into the stomach or intestine. By opening into the bUe diiots the contents sometimes become tinged with bile. he solitary abscess of the liver is in the majority of cases con- nected with ulceration of the bowels; usually with dysenteric ulceration of the colon ; and hence its infrequency has some relation to the rarity of the severe form of tropical dysentery in this countrv. lhe abscess is generally regarded as the consequence of the ulceration; though some authorities, as Dr. Murchison, take the converse view, believing ulceration to be not a constant accom- paniment ol hepatic abscess, and when it occurs, secondary to the lb™ ini WcVOr- ,many cases on record of hepatic abscess secondary to various kinds of ulcers in the intestines ■ which seem to connect the form we are now considering with pysemic abscesses strictly so called. to Solitary abscess sometimes occurs independently of dysentery smnierir!7 has bT r.eferred t0 cold. excessive drinking of and other causes- A similar abscess may result simply from direct injury, such as, according to Dr. Wilks mav be inflicted by a fractured rib. Some cases are quite unexplained. iioif ’ a Si\ngle lai?° abs?ess ma7 be formed by the confluence of °iL°f mU, tlplen Py®mic abscesses, so that the dis- fanction between the smgle and multiple abscesses may disappear ■ oriinT6 a,Lth°r8’ aS Dr‘ Moxon> intend that both Tsses onlv in binhG Same T7’tbe 1^'ge’ °r tropical abscesses, differing trniv l l ng more cbl'onic. But the descriptions given of the tropmal abscess represent a disease very different from pymmia. l)vL a £i CS °f\he L*ver' These are chiefly the result of The nvm’mi!hr °°casi°?al ?.au.ses be pointed out hereafter. 7 be e’tber braited to the parts connected with the arm or general. In the former case some morbid material be absorbed by one of the veins tributary to the portal bmnrL some diseased part, thus carried into the Lses efftl hiSVein W1thin the liver. The transport is in many often by “assfs derived from softening thrombi, but verv S °ftbls kmd can be discovered. In cases of gener J ?orbld material must be conveyed through the caS0 fhSn h. lfc, bec°mes arrested in the portal capillaries. In&either Kanmariea W mechanical, due to the obstruction morbfd iSerb 8peClflC’ dU6 t0 ° mflaminS properties of the * Murchison, “ Trans. Path. Soe.,» vol.viii.p. 237; Bristowe, Ibid., vol.ix.pp. 241,273.620 INFLAMMATION OF THE LIVER. It was formerly supposed that abscesses in the liver were specially likely to be the consequence of injuries to the head; but this appears to have been merely an error of observation, caused by not taking into account a sufficient number of cases. Injuries to the head are more liable to produce pytemia than injuries to some other parts ; but the pyaemia thus produced has no special tendency to attack the liver : abscesses in the lungs being, as in all other cases, of much more frequent occurrence. Multiple abscesses may also result from suppurative inflamma- tion of the bile ducts; which sometimes, though not always, extends into the surrounding tissue, producing abscess. They may also be the consequence of changes occurring in softened thrombi contained in the larger portal-vein branches which are spoken of below. In a few rare cases diffuse suppuration of the liver, producing numerous small abscesses, but not apparently due to pyiemia, has been observed. One of the best instances is described and figured by Dr. Quain, in the “ Pathological Transactions,” vol. iv. p. 171, plate v. Pysemic abscesses are sometimes preceded by a short stage of diffuse suppuration, when the form of the lobules can still .be recognized, though their substance is very soft, and of a yellowish colour. The commencing abscesses are at first very small, like spots of purulent matter dispersed here and there through the inflamed and softened tissue; they gradually enlarge, several coalesce together, and thus form cavities of irregular shape and size. The parietes of the abscess are uneven, presenting the remains of former partitions, they are covered by a kind of pyogenic membrane which consists, in great part, of pus globules; external to this, the wall is formed by hepatic tissue, infiltrated with exudation matter, which serves to bound and limit the absceos, as in the case of a common phlegmon. In very small abscesses, and those of very recent formation, as also in cases where the process is very rapid, this limitation of the abscess by exudation substance does not take place; on the other hand, in old abscesses, and those of very large size, occurring in tolerably healthy systems, a strong enveloping cyst may be found, consisting of fibroid tissue, and amounting sometimes to three or four lines in thickness. . Consequences of Hepatic Abscess.—If the abscess of either kind be deep-seated and encysted, it may continue, especially il of small size, for a long time without mcreasmg much, or producing serious disturbance of the health, but if it be near the surface it excites inflammation of the serous investment, ana effusion of lymph, which soon unites its wall with the part wi which it is in contact. This may be the wall of the abdomen, or some of its contained hollow viscera, or the diaphragm which 100 it in above, and by any of these various routes the abscess ma3 extend, and at length discharge its contents. By extension, a so, in the parenchyma of the liver, the abscess may reach a braucINFLAMMATION OF THE LIVER. goj the portal vein or of the hepatic, excite inflammation of its coats and consequent obstruction of its canal by coagulated fibrine When the enlarging abscess reaches an hepatic duct-branch it affects it m a different way it does not set up inflammation in its waffs and cause its Destruction (though this may no doubt occur iiTsomo 0f the smallei), but it ulcerates through its tunic and establi^hpQ n communication between the efferent channel ami its owi^ cavity Hence it occurs that the pus contained in large abscesses is ilwn-Ji mingled with a considerable quantity of bile, while that of the smaller and recent abscess is almost pure. An abscess of the Uvn may sometimes hea! either ^ theWcna^ after they have been absorbed; the latter occurrence is we should conceive exceedingly rare. In either case the waffs of the abscess KTa'Y “U?P» togetner, ™I«Lg sZ! “* “tare of *■“ msmm mmmm facenf „ ‘-no vessels of a patch of false membrane, on the s “rs^rr&s,.‘)r by tie so™ observer, via., that ^S?5 SuCIRRHOSIS OF THE LIVER. G22 ing with, their own. peculiar morhid action opposed parts with which they come in contact; such tainting of a part may he con- ceived to he quite inconsistent with the effusion of comparatively healthy lymph. The capsule of the liver is very frequently found thickened, appearing whiter, more opaque, and dense; this thickening generally occurs in patches of various size, which sometimes coexist together with the hands of adhesion . j ust noticed, hut quite as often are independent of them, or coincident with similar thickenings of other serous membranes. It seems doubtful whether these changes should not be more properly classed as degenerations than as inflammations. On© conspicuous form of perihepatitis is produced by syphilis. The capsule is found greatly thickened, often over a large extent, and the liver wasted. A considerable degree of perihepatitis also often accompanies cirrhosis. Affections of the capsule of the liver are however, usually associated with similar affections ot the peritoneum generally. Small fibrous outgrowths, called by Dr. Moxon “Pacchionian bodies of the Liver,” are sometimes found in association, it is said, with obstructive disease of the heart, especially of the right side. , ,, , Gamrene of the liver is very rare; Rokitansky well observes that “ it is developed in parts affected with inflammation and suppura- tion not so much as a result of intense inflammation as of certain peculiar conditions which cause a tendency to gangrenous degene- ration.” These peculiar conditions may he probably either low, unhealthy states of the general system, or, as m the interesting case recorded by Dr. Budd, the septic influence of a previously healthy part which had been affected by gangrene. Cirrhosis* or Chronic Interstitial Hepatitis.—This condition, which is sometimes described as chronic inflammation, consists essentially in an hypertrophy of the connective tissue framework of the organ, with degeneration of the parenchymatous substance. It occurs in two forms, very different in external appearance, though essentially the same-(l) The granular or contracted form, cirrhosis as usually understood; (2) The smooth form, sometimes recognizable with difficulty except by micioscopi GX1 ^OrMrnry Cirrhosis.—A liver which is affected by this change in an extreme degree is remarkably altered. It is much smal than natural, much paler, and instead of presenting a-smooth _ ^ face, is contracted and puckered so as to resemble, according former observer, “a congeries of little firm globules like the vitellarium of a laying hen.” . These globular. Zl yellowish or bile-stained, and project on the surface, the same are S°They ^rtTof various sizes, and evidently consist of parenchy- portions.CIRRHOSIS OF THE LIVER. 623 matous substance : they are surrounded, and as it were capsulated by firm fibroid tissue which extends throughout the whole hver and gives it a remarkable degree of density and firmness. This formltionTnd18 ^ w* higbly vascular : it is evidently a new formation, and as such tissue frequently does, contracts and shrinks Fig. 141. Section of liver in a fatty state, with abundant the lobules. new formed fibrous tissue between « to pro- familiarly termed The sam ’ v b'na1l1 Titian, as it is 'which supply the liver • tw are sur,-ng afjjects the vessels ■ fibrous tissue in the health^ state an(t ensheathed by thickened and condensed fh« . d when this is morbidlv :heir channels and materially dimini If*UPon tbem narrows ■'•fiich they are ablfto convevK t qUantity of Wood checked at its very origin and thn t le Portal current is ,:o relieve themselves° bv effusion ,Pested capillaries are obliged •avity. The capsX oFa tSic mt° Pineal ometimes thickened or attached bv BSw18 Samefmcs smooth, hese adhesions are often traversed bv npJ’T to adJacent parts : jLthrr; ss11 vidently from the prescnce ff an tT, 18 firm and dense, -e, b* it, aurfacfia624 CIRRHOSIS OF THE LIVER. rounded; it may be pale or else highly congested with blood, usually of the “ hepatic venous second degree, and is often icn considerably enlarged. It is sometimes of a bile-stainin". Microscopic examination shows that the mantitj of fibroid tissue forming the Glissonian sheaths is considerably Etime. to such . degree “ • lobules to a great extent, and produce atrophy of their sub. . nee, ‘“Sy'hSe^ESeS^nKodSd; but we .tree* n =r! liSSiHi inflammatory action, as weU l that this is the SgetE yt»£Etoi"dt ‘tsirs&sfs d° Causes^10/ ^Cfr’rhosis. —The remote cause of cirrhosis, m mamCIRRHOSIS OR THE LITER. 62o cases, is certainly the habit of spirit-drinking: the alcohol absorbed into the portal blood first passes through the liver, and very probably exerts some action on its tissue. This suggests the idea of the spirit acting as a local irritant, and with this Dr Percy’s observation of the greater affinity of alcohol for the liver than for other organs in animals poisoned by it seems to harmonize. Obstructive cardiac disease is probably not a direct cause of cirrhosis in any of its forms or degrees, hut certainly must be a predisposing one. Congestion favours the occurrence both of inflammation and of degeneration. Both the heart disease (e q constriction of the mitral orifice), and the cirrhotic change in the fiver, are sometimes, perhaps, common results of the same con- dition of the blood, or of some general constitutional tendency. There are, no doubt, other exciting causes besides the ingestion of alcoho , but they can scarcely be particularized. We have seen ' Weal cirrhosis m a child three years old, where spirit drinking- i was out of the question. One form of syphilitic disease of the liver much resembles cirrhosis; but some cases are, no doubt i unexplained. ’ Consequences of Cirrhosis.—'The obstruction to the blood current muv?iPOrtf,1 TOm causes congestion of the whole portal system with the following consequences (1) Swelling of the spleen (not , invariably); (2) Eflusion of serum into the peritoneal cavity, or * ’ (3)- Catarrh of the stomach, and sometimes hiemorrhage • [4) Congestion of the mucous surface of the intestines, sometimes ?Producing diarrhoea; (5) Enlargement of collateral venous channels. Ultimately secondary congestion of the systemic venous system -may ensue, producing anasarca of the legs and general dropsy. ihe spleen albeit exposed to the backward pressure of the blood retarded m the splenic vein, does not always become dis- •tended in the way that one would expect, but is often, on the ■contrary, sometimes; small and soft. Frerichs found enlargement of the spleen in half his cases. We have found it enlarged in -nearly all Ascites is, perhaps, the most constant phenomenon, ut may be wanting if the collateral venous channels are abun- aani. Jaundice, it should be remembered, rarely occurs, and the rw/ t,houf^alw7ay.s ^gh"floured, does not contain bile pigment, Collateral Circulation.—All or most of these consequences may he !^°r 1 tUfe’b/ a™,rted> id collateral venous channels o greatly developed. There are, beside the umbilical vein and its attendant veins already mentioned, the following plexuses -hi - f h0emorrhoidffi plexus, forming a communication between n and lnternal lUac veins, and other plexuses -n the peh is which have a similar double connection. (2) Several groups of minute veins running in the ligaments of the liver, dis- -ngmshed by feappey in five groups: fa) in the gastro-hepatic '.n surrounding the gall-bladder and entering the liver n each sidei; (c) running in the walls of the portal vein hepatic rtery, and bile duct; (cl) running in the suspensory ligament626 DEGENERATIONS OF THE LIVER. from the middle of the diaphragm to the liver; (e) veins descend- ing from the abdominal wall above the umbilicus by the sus- pensory ligament to the left longitudinal fissure of the liver. At their upper origin they stand in communication, on the one hand, with the mammary and epigastric veins; on the other, with the superficial veins of the abdomen. Some of this group, surround the obliterated umbilical vein, and sometimes communicate with it, as before mentioned. In a case in which, with well-marked cirrhosis, there was an entire absence of ascites, we observed plexuses connecting the capsule of the liver with the supra-renal veins, and thus with the veins of the diaphragm ; on the left side also with the renal vein. As several of these collateral channels open into the azygos veins, these vessels are always found enlarged, of course, especially the right, and convey a considerable proportion of the accessory circulation. DEGENERATIONS OF THE LIVET. Under this head we include—(1) Fatty degeneration; (2) Paren- chymatous or albuminous degeneration; (3) Lardaceous degenera- tion; (4) Pigmentary degeneration. (1.) Fatty Degeneration.—The first degenerative condition oitRe liver which we shall describe is that of fatty degeneration. A liver thus affected is usually much enlarged, paler than natural, and in most cases softer; sometimes, however, it has a feeling ot great solidity. The capsule, in cases of uncomplicated fatty degenera- tion, is not thickened, nor attached by adhesions to adjacent parts. The thin edge of the organ is somewhat rounded, and the thickness < generally increased. On microscopic examination, it is at once seen that the hepatic cells are engorged with oil; instead ot con- taining a few minute drops imbedded in a mass of granuious < matter, they are filled to the extent of one-half or two-thirds, or even their whole cavity, with colourless fluid oil. Sometimes a Quantity of yellow matter is also seen m the cell-eayity, together with the oil, but this is often absent. The nucleus disappears, a* is generally the case in cells that have fulfilled their work of secretion, but the envelope persists, and is sometimes a little thickened and striated. In very advanced cases the cells are not found merely gorged with oil, but, to a great extent, iro -en F and lost; in their place there are seen only granular debris, e tangling multitudes of oil drops of different sizes. There - to be less tendency to the development and growth of young cem than in the healthy state, those that are forming appear stunted, and many become very early, affected noth orly dep^t. Tins seems to show that one very important function of the ‘’ nue- such cases is, at least, very imperfectly discharged It^ *n mif resting fact, that the bile in these cases undergoes no constantDEGENERATIONS OF THE LIVER. 627 necessary alteration; it is sometimes unusually pale, but often has the dark green tint of ordinary bile. The minute ducts are tolerably natural, and doubtless continue to discharge their part of the bile-secreting process. A fatty condition may coexist with a considerable degree of cirrhosis. The appearance of a section un- Tig. 142. der the microscope is then very i of the lobules, and is always, (a) Empty envelope of an hepatic cell 'iwe think, most advanced there; from wMch the oil has escaped. Ssometimes, however, it may com- muc&ail^ W Hepatic cells containing rmence in the centres of the 1 lobules. This somewhat rare condition of central fatty engorge- :ment has been explained by rapid removal of fat from the muter portions of the lobules. The pal© condition of the liver adepends on the enlarged size of the cells, which are pressed closer together, and thus constrict the capacious capillaries and aallow less blood to be contained within them. There is, how- eever, no obstruction to the flow of blood, such as we have seen in c.cirrhosis; the soft state of the oil-laden parenchyma sufficientlv accounts for this. We think it most probable that fatty degene- rration does not consist merely in the impletion of the cells with oil in their containing a greater quantity of this matter than they naturally would, but that there is an actual impairment of their evelopment and nutrition, of their active power of formation and secretion, so that the tissue really undergoes a kind of decay. In support of this view,. we may mention that we have scarcely ever lound sugar present in the parenchyma of a thoroughly fatty liver A?1® almost always be detected in livers that aro not so ■inectea; this is certainly a remarkable fact. * Causes of Fatty Degeneration.—The proximate cause of the pro- ' uctl°n ofWatty liver is, we believe, the existence of an undue quantity of oily matter in the blood, in proportion to the assimila- tive power. In cases of disease it is also very probable that the by more transparent spaces of i fibroid tissue. remarkable; the lobules appear . as opaque islets separated more ' or less widely from each other, O a The fatty liver is usually much ( enlarged; in fact, no cause pro- duces such enlargement except i cancer. The fatty change is t usually confined to the marginsDEGENERATIONS OF TIIE LIVER. G2S vital power of the hepatic cells is much lowered. It may, there- fore, occur: (1.) When an animal is largely fed on food containing much fat. The fatty livers of the Strasburg geese are produced in this way. (2.) "When, in the course of an exhausting disease, rapid emaciation takes place, and causes the blood to become loaded with oil from the waste of the adipose tissue. (3.) When the type of respiration is low, and the blood necessarily, therefore, contains much hydro-carbonaceous matter. In the first and third classes there may he simply accumulation of a large quantity of oil in the tissue of the liver; in the second there is generally, also, more or less degeneration of the hepatic structure. We have verified this by positive observation, as respects the first and second classes. Animals fed for some time with fatty food have their livers loaded with oil, but the cells are not at all destroyed; they contain much oil, and much also is deposited between them. W e have found the liver, in persons dying in a condition of extreme emaciation from other diseases besides pulmonary phthisis, in a complete state of fatty degeneration; and this has occurred so often, that we should expect to find it in most cases ot great o-eneral wasting. It is certainly the emaciation of consumptive disease that produces fatty transformation of the liver, and not the mere destruction of the oxygenating apparatus. This statement is strongly confirmed by the analysis of about a hundred cases, m which we examined, microscopically, the condition of the liver. Among them there were eighteen in whom the liver was thoroughly fatty, or nearly so ; of them, only one died of pulmonary phthisis, four others of scrofulous affections, the remainder of diseases having no connection with any form of phthisis: ten cas®3 0 phthisis occurring in the same list presented either no fatty dege- neration, or an imperfect and partial change only. A fatty state of the liver is sometimes coincident with a similar condition oi the kidneys, but not by any means invariably. _ In well-fed persons living in towns, some degree of fatty change in the liver seems to he the rule. It is also a consequence of excessive drinking; espe- cially, it is said, of drinking dilute forms of alcohol, as beer, but we have also seen it in spirit drinkers. (2.) Granular or Parenchymatous Degeneration.—In many acu febrile diseases, some swelling of the liver is noticed during lne. When this is the case, we find the liver enlarged, either pale or vas- cular and opaque, somewhat resembling a fatty liver ; so much so, that it may sometimes be a matter of doubt whether there is a fatty change, or an acute degeneration. The substance is, how- ever, more flabby than in the fatty liver, the colour le^ ... * and, in advanced cases, the lobular structure much ess v • -Microscopical examination shows the cells punctated e . -refracting granules, which in early stages are soluble m acetic acid or alkalies, and are probably albuminous mcom^sition. The cells are at the same time swollen. This c»?difaon ^ called by Virchow cloudy swelling. In a moie advance ■ ■ eDEGENERATIONS OF THE DIVER. 629 granules are insoluble in acetic acid, and are in fact fatty, so that the condition ends in fatty degeneration. A similar simultaneous change is often seen in the renal epithelium. This form of dege- neration occurs in erysipelas, diphtheria, pyremia, and other specific fevers; also in diseases such as pneumonia, accompanied by fever. It has been explained simply as an effect of high temperature. (3.) Larclaceous, or Waxy (amyloid) Degeneration of the liver, pre- sents the same general features as in other organs, and here, too, is said to commence in the smaller arteries or capillaries ; but even if this be the case, the most prominent and characteristic alterations are seen in the hepatic cells. These are found enlarged, rounded, and indistinct in outline, translucent or hyaline in substance, the nucleus no longer perceptible. The individual cells become after a time fused together into irregular masses. The change always begins in that part of each acinus which immediately depends upon the hepatic artery and portal vein, that is, in the peripheral portion; while the central portion, or that connected with the hepatic vein, remains long unaffected. The small arterial branches become blocked, as is shown by the difficulty of injecting the organ through the artery. The fiver thus affected is almost always enlarged, sometimes very greatly; but this, perhaps, is partly dependent upon the fatty degeneration which almost always accompanies the lardaceous change. The edges are rounded, the substance extremely firm, tough, pale, and translucent. As the change seldom extends quite uniformly through the whole organ, the translucent portions are mottled with opaque white fatty patches. In rare cases, the larda- ceous change is said to occur only in isolated spots. Iodine produces in the fiver thus affected very characteristic markings, the degenerated portions being stained orange, or dark brown; and, from the peculiar distribution of the change, the acini are very clearly defined. Treated with sulphuric acid, the iodine- stained portions become nearly black. (4.) Pigmentary Degeneration of the fiver is described as the conse- quence of intermittent fevers, which produce a similar affection of the spleen. This condition is seldom seen in this country. It is described by Klebs as arising from deposition of black pigment in the portal capillaries, and in the interlobular branches of this vessel; later cm in the hepatic capillaries also. The fiver is at once distinguished by its dark, greyish brown, or nearly black colour; which is either general, or limited to the territory of the portal vein. The size is at first increased, but in the end atrophy always sets in, which may be considerable. The pigmentary matter consists of round or angular granules of a blackish colour, and is always contained within the vessels, either free, or enclosed m cells, some resembling ordinary leucocytes, some angular, like the epithelium of the splenic vessels. The source of this pigment is believed to be the spleen, where a similar change is constantlyG30 THROMBOSIS AND INFLAMMATION OF THE PORTAL VEIN. found in cases of intermittent fever, and there depends upon stagnation, of blood in tbo sinuses, and tbe metamorphosis of its colouring matter. The obliteration of the vascular channels leads to congestion of the portal venous system and further conse- quences, which are nearly the same as those oi cirrhosis. L lti- mately the pigment may find its way through the liver into the hepatic venous system, and thus become distributed over the ^simple Atrophy of the Liver.—Wasting of the liver occurs in many diseases, accompanied by general marasmus, unless (as in phthisis) fatty degeneration supervene, and is very noticeable in cases of starvation. It also results from any obstruction of the portal vein. In some cases an idiopathic atrophy appears to occur without any obvious cause. The organ is much reduced m size, somewhat granular on the surface, of firm but not hard consistence, and of a peculiar brownish red colour, with the lobules dearly defined, so that it has some resemblance to the liver of chronic venous congestion. It has, on the other hand often been de- scribed as a form of cirrhosis; and it is probable that extreme wasting from the latter cause may come to resemble very closely simple atrophy. The distinction of course depends on the absence of any new production of fibrous tissue in the stroma, ^ of inter- stitial proliferation, in the cases of simple atrophy. The fibrous tissue and Glisson’s capsule may, however, be apparently increased in consequence of the wasting of the hepatic tissue. Dr V\ilks describes a case in which the organ was reduced to ljlbs.m weight, and the liver-cells were not more than one-half or one- third of their normal dimensions. He characterizes such livers as being smooth on the surface, and homogeneous m substance, but as producing the same obstruction of the portal system as actual cirrhosis. THROMBOSIS AND INFLAMMATION OF THE PORTAL VEIN. Coagulation of blood in the portal trunk or some of its branches, accompanied or not by inflammation of the wall of the vein, may be produced by several causes, and lead to important changes in thThiTcondition in the portal or hepatic vein branches been alluded to as resulting occasionally from abscess of the liver, but it may be produced by other causes. A fish-bone hasi been known to perforate the wall of the stomach, and the head of the pancreas, and wound the superior mesenteric vein, exciting inflammation of the coats of the vessel which extended to the SvSns of the portal vein. The effects of thrombosis and phlebitis are the same in these as in other veins .they may P 3 £2£ ft. Mock»g VP of tie channel mthi1W»» or these may proceed m some portions of the vein p631 CONDITIONS PRODUCING JAUNDICE. * See a case in “ Trans. Path. Soc.,” vol. xxiv. p. 122. softening. Sometimes we find the wall thickened and inflamed with thiTcoagula adherent to it, sometimes quite unchanged. In some cases a sort of embolism appears to take place within the portal system ; portions of clot being transferred from the tributary veins of the portal trunk to some of its branches. This is espe- cially the case when the coagula soften. A remarkable case of this kind is described at page 404. If simple obliteration occur the clot becomes inseparably united with the inner coats of the venous wall, probably through growth from the latter.* When the inflammation has subsided, the obstructed vessel gradually shrinks, and is reduced to a fibrous cord, while the sur- rounding tissue to which it was distributed, being deprived of its supply of blood, atrophies and falls in, so that the course of the vein is indicated by a deep linear fissure. The consequence of such attacks must be the diminution, to a greater or less extent, of efficient hepatic parenchyma, and as the importance of this structure to the due performance of nutritive absorption is very manifest (were it attested only by the intimate relation in which it is placed with the portal blood), it seems very probable that the abiding emaciated and enfeebled condition of many persons who have suffered inflammatory attacks of the liver, really depends on their having been thus deprived of a greater or less part of this important organ. Partial obstruction of the portal trunk produces general wasting of the liver. Total obstruction is fatal. The spleen always becomes enlarged; in the case above referred to it weighed twenty-four ounces. Breaking down, or puriform softening of the thrombus, may produce abscess in the liver, but does not always do so. Perhaps, as in other instances of softening clots, this is only the case when the special poisoning of pysemia is present, and is conveyed to the organ by the softening clots. CONDITIONS PRODUCING JAUNDICE. The next morbid condition of the liver which we shall consider is that which exists in the various affections in which jaundice forms a prominent symptom. There is little doubt that in most cases a jaundiced condition of the liver precedes and occasions a similar condition of the whole body. General jaundice is com- monly supposed to depend upon the absorption into the blood of bile that should have passed out into the intestine, and this is, doubtless, the cause of it in many cases. In these, the bile locked up in the substance of the liver causes it to be tinged yeilow, a result which we have produced artificially by placing a ligature on the duct. com. choled. in animals. But in many cases632 CONDITIONS PRODUCING JAUNDICE. more than this occurs. Dilatation of the heart, or obstructive valvular disease, throwing back the blood on the venous system, occasions permanent congestion of the liver, and often produces the condition termed “nutmeg” in its most marked form. In this, as before described, the congestion is exactly co-extensive with extreme yellow engorgement of the cells; a much larger quantity of yellow matter is contained in the liver; there is hepatic jaundice, and together with this, and, no doubt, in conse- quence of it, general jaundice frequently occurs. In these cases we think the evacuations continue of their natural colour ; a cer- tain quantity at least of bile flows into the intestine. In most healthy animals the cells of the liver have only a very faint, if any, yellow tinge, but by repeated doses of calomel we have caused the production of a large quantity of yellow matter in the cells ; there is evidence also to show that the same has occurred in the human subject. In the acute yellow atrophy, as Rokitansky names that condition of the liver (of which we shall speak presently), attended with symptoms of toxeemia, and proving fatal by coma, there must certainly be a greatly-increased production of yellow pigment. The flow of bile into the intestine is not so completely stopped as it is in other instances of jaundice, and the yellow coloration of the liver is deeper than it is almost ever seen. _ Icterus neonatorum appears also to be an instance of the excessive production of bile or of bile-pigment: there is evidently no disease of the liver, or any obstruction in the biliary ducts, but owing to the organ at birth being highly congested with blood, and the system not having adapted itself to its new condition, a greater quantity of yellow pigment is formed out of the colouring matter of the blood than can be readily carried off by the bile; this again returns into the blood and produces jaundice. This explanation seems preferable to that which assigns a kind of hypersemic or half-bruised state of the skin, as the cause of the yellow stain; were this so, how could the conjunctive come to be affected ? When jaundice occurs in the course of fevers or in pysemia, it then depends, in all probability, on an alteration taking place directly in the hemoglobin of the blood, which, as in the case of an extra- vasation, is changed from a red to a yellowish tint; in this ease there would be no preceding jaundice of the liver. It is evident that in all instances of jaundice the unnatural tint results from the presence of a yellow (usually identical with bile) pigment in the blood: this is easily demonstrable in the urine and other secretions by the stain imparted to linen, or by the play of colours which it gives with nitric acid; but there is little or no evidence to show that real biliary matter, i.e., the bile acids, are present in the blood or the secretions. From jaundiced livers plenty of yellow pigment can be extracted, reacting with the nitric acid test, but no cholic acid, or any substance that gives the reaction of Pettenkofer s test. The blood, in cases of jaundice, is more often found to contain bile- pigment without cholic acid, than the reverse. The same is the case633 ACUTE YELLOW ATROPHY. with the urine; it often gives a characteristic reaction with nitric acid when none is afforded by the test of sugar and sulphuric acid. From these data we must conclude that jaundice depends on the presence of bile-pigment or some similar modification of hmmatine in the blood; but that it does not follow that bile, as such, is in all cases actually present. It may be that, in the graver cases of jaundice, attended with toxaemia, cholic acid, or some modification ot it, is present m the circulation in large quantity, as well as yellow pigment. The colour of the liver in jaundice is of a more or less marked yellow, in some cases passing to a green or brownish tmt; this will be of course, modified and more or less concealed by the blood contained m the vessels. Jaundice may also be pro- spoCkenboyfChangeS m the bilS dUCtS’ Which wiU be subsequently ACUTE YELLOW ATROPHY. This rare and remarkable affection seems to differ very much from the other morbid conditions producing jaundice. The size of L°r9glL 13 hel'6 greatly diminished.being sometimes less than 2 lbs. in an adult man. The colour is usually an intense flTi JUt som?tlmes orange-coloured or decidedly red, its texture a ,6ectlon shows nothing of the natural lobular arrange- ment, and it seems almost or quite bloodless. The blood in the large vessels is said by liokitansky to be reduced in consistence rL°ia <b?y wSih"brTTW5 colour, and the coats of the Y. Port® o be tinged with bile. Under the microscope it is seen that the ceffs are completely destroyed, and even their nuclei have perished the parenchyma is a mere mass of broken-up granular matter’ ■ deeply yellow and containing some largish yellow masses’ evmt«rth diffused oily matter. In one instance which we =ned no sugar could be extracted from the liver, though it is usuaily abundant in healthy organs: this may, however have depended on the non-ingestion of food for some time before death? tbp' mn/l e ducts we have found gravely altered; they had lost Ind al tnd Were mied Wlth subgranular matter opaque whitish globules. These globules, probably leucin remSlvlymPhatics- and rendered their course emr,tlkply (bs!,1I?ct- Several observers describe the bile ducts as 1 ty or containing only mucus, and never bile. biv,iW0 7emical substances are very constantly found in tho opaque £??<J^lbePatlC SS8Ue’ viz" leucin’ which occurs in whitish r»f-qUe ffJ,obuIes> sometimes concentrically stratified or in 1TOr„ SSr c™SlS'0b5‘“th '“a”'1 Whicl1 m >>«»£ Of 80 &Md “ U» the liver i, «ffel“‘ia i JdSaTTUMOURS AND NEW GROWTHS OX7 THE LIVER. G34 and. normally in the spleen, pancreas, and some other parts of the b°Some pathologists have described a condition of red atrophy, very similar to the yellow, and occurring likewise man acute form, with febrile symptoms; but we do not see sufficient reason for making it a distinct disease. The name is also unfortunate, as it has been used for the very different condition of “nutmeg liver. Partial acute atrophy sometimes occurs the characteristic changes being found in certain portions of the liver, white the 161OfaLw”/ Acute Yellow Atrophy.-The causes of this disease are unknown. It has been found that phosphorus poisoning produces a somewhat similar affection, and hence it has been suggested that there may be cases of accidental phosphorus poisomng, which seems very unlikely. Syphilis has been present in a rather notable proportion ““sol, but can hardly bo invoked a, a canoe. Some observers have referred the whole to acute inflammation. tumours and new growths of the liver. Simple tissue tumours are not common in the ^r. ^efoUow- ing have been observed as primary growths. (1)1^ Fibroma • (31 Angioma, or cavernous tumour; (4) Lymphoma. (1) and (2) are extremely rare, and of no practical importan . 3 Cavernous tumours of small size are not very though it would seem less common m this country than a^ many In the ordinary form a bluish patch is seen on the surta of the liver, which when cut into is found to represent a cavernous or spongy structure of intercommunicating. spaces ?“upyrng £ office of liver tissue, and usually containing liquid hlood but sometimes firm thrombi.. They may also occur at a ffis an e thl most remarkable instances on record, m wffich large ag numerous cavernous tumours, containing coagulated blood, were found scattered through the liver. tissue was found The system of sinuses composing the cavemo ■ , to stand m immediate relation trifl. ‘V SlobeOpened main divisions of the portal vein supplying the left lobe oper Sto two of the largest cavernous tumours by channels astag^ a goose-quill, and nearly all the largei bianc 1 other1 hand, the were found to be similarly connected. On the otner n , Dr Andrew describes in “ Trans. Patb.Soc” vol-ii. P- IBS, a case of acute atrophy hi which the liver had an orange-red or red colour.TUMOURS AND NEW GROWTHS OF THE LIVER. 635 II “ Trans. Path. Soc.,” vol. xxiv. p. 120. larger branches of the hepatic vein were quite unaffected, and no communications, but small and inconspicuous ones, could be traced with this system of veins, nor any with the hepatic artery. The smaller tumours were enclosed in a capsule and easily separable from the surrounding tissue, being attached to small branches of the portal vein like fruits to their stalk. The larger tumours had no capsule, and were not separable from the liver tissue. * Lymphoma or Lymphatic Tumours— In cases of leuehaemia, the liver is often greatly enlarged, and contains numerous masses of lymphatic elements, such as have been already stated to occur in many oigans in this disease. These tumours are distinguished by their white colour, soft and somewhat crumbling consistency. The} are often extremely numerous and small, but sometimes toim larger masses; and sometimes there is a more general infiltration. The microscopical structure is little more than a collection of lymph corpuscles, with very little fibrous stroma or intercellular substance. Lymphadenoma— In certain cases of anosmia lymphatica, or Hodg- kin s disease (p. 425), growths and infiltrations of cytogenous tissue are met with, which are usually firmer than the purely leuchtemic tumours, from the presence of more intercellular substance; and in the forms called lymphosarcoma, by Yirchow, a greater variety of cell forms is sometimes observed.t The latter tumours are yellowish, translucent, and of firm, tough consistency . Simple fVats (unconnected with hydatids) have, in a few instances, been found. _ Dr. Bristowe has described cases of very numerous cysts in the liver, associated with a similar cystic condi- tion of the kidneys, J and Dr. Wilks speaks of similar cases. fearcomatous tumours occur not very unfrequently as secondary growths. Spindle-celled sarcoma and melanotic sarcoma have been thus observed.§ One case of primary melanotic sarcoma in he liver is recorded by Frerichs. One case of secondary myxoma observed1 reC°rded’11 and secondai7 enchondroma has also been Cancer is very frequent in the liver: it stands fourth in the list of organs thus affected, according to the Parisian registers : these show that it occurs about once in every sixteen cases of cancer Kokitansky estimates its occurrence in the liver to be much more irequent; he states “its numerical relation to carcinoma of other organs, as 1 to 5. The above statements do not, of course, refer to Pflmal7 caucer of the liver only; but include secondary cancer also. Three varieties of cancer, beside epithelioma, have been observed in the liver; colloid is extremely rare, neither Dr Payne, ‘‘Trans. Path. Soc.,” vol. xx. p. 203. and ^rans,P^?1* 8°?»” voL P-401; Murchison, Tbid., vol xx do 1Q9 and^ 198, pi. vu. and vm.; Wilks, “Guy’s Hospital Reports,” 1856, series8, voi. il } “ Trans. Path. Soc.,” vol. x. p. 174. p. 2MTrteiy.‘^: Path' Soc”” vo1' =“**• P' 123 i A. Clark, Ibid., vol. xxiii.63() TUMOURS AND NEW GROWTHS OF THE LI\ ER. Rudd nor Dr. Walshe has met with it; Rokitansky seenis only to have seen a single case, and he does not state whether it was primary or secondary'. Scirrhus is not very unfrequent, or a transition variety between it and encephaloid. The commonest form of cancer in the hver has an mtwme hardness greater than that of ordinary encephaloid, but interior to the stow hardness of scirrhus of the mamma; itconstitutes roundish tumours, about the size of a large nut, whitish, fibrous, ■md tolerably firm. Encephaloid is far the most common, and, a* attain. J the larged ade.We h»v<j~jjSg the whole organ converted into amassofthis^nD forms separate tumours, sometimes infiltrates the parencnyma Rokitansky’s description of the separate tumours seems to us to apply equally to the scirrhous and encephaloid varieties, as he him- aPP Y h J tt0 qcitth “Their general form is spherical, SKI S S«qS/ts sUgh.lr : » Fig. 143. Encephaloid growth, occupying a large extent of the liver. extend to the very nucleus of ^morbid gowth. » covering over the contrac P cancerous degenera- probably from haying bewme> mviilved^ ^ ^ same vay as tion; it seems to be reti acted and bcr 0f the cancerous the skin is in subcutaneous cancel, ike nu(337 TUMOURS AND NEW GROWTHS OP THE LIVER. tumours varies in different cases; they may be solitary or .very numerous; primary cancers are usually few, secondary may amount to some hundreds. In rare cases minute tumours are distributed so generally through the organ as to produce the effect of an infiltration. Dr. Walshe thinks they are most numerous when they occur consecutively to cancer of the stomach The scirrhous tumours have scarce any investments of cellular tissue, and adhere closely to the surrounding hepatic parenchyma • the encephaloid have a delicate cyst-like investment, though this does not seem to be constant, and they can be detached more readily. “Infiltrated encephaloid,” according to Kokitanskv always contains obliterated and obsolete blood-vessels and ducts which are gradually absorbed. The infiltration attacks larger or smaller segments of the viscus, it does not present distinct boun- daries, but insensibly passes into the normal parenchyma It rarely occurs without nodulated cancer.” The separate tumours often enclose strata of remaimng hepatic structure, a fact which 8®ems t° “ark » connection between the two forms; some de°ree of infiltration taking place in each; but in one, the growth simnlv pushes the parenchyma aside, in the other it spreads its germs everywhere among its elements. The structure of cancerous tumours presents nothing different from that of cancerous tumours m other parts, and is described under the general head of cancer (p. 1,2). Their degree of vascularity varies: some tumours show very little trace of blood-vessels, others are richly supplied, and are the seat also of interstitial effusions of blood; to such the term haematoid or fungus haematodes is appropriate. Black pigment is often scattered through the substance of the growths, and may be so abundant as to make them appear entirely black. These claim, of course, the appel- lation melanotic, but most, if not all such, are cases of sarcoma Cancerous tumours in most cases produce considerable en- largement of the liver, and the very largest fivers known are thSUHdlKy “ The kl'sest we have seen weighed more tiian lb lbs., but still larger are on record, the atrophy of the proper tissue which they occasion being more than compensated efpthf>fm0iUnt °f the.lr.own enlargement; in some rare cases, how- er, this does not take place, and the fiver, though containing many cancerous tumours, is smaller than natural. Masses of cancer which appear on the surface of the fiver sometimes excite adhesive inflammation of the investing serous membrane, and thus thfi 7b UDbted iby fail8G membrane t0 adjacent parts. Instead of this, they have been known to infect with their tainted fluids the parts in contact with them, and to cause secondary formations of bfilirnti11 thT’ ■?' eXtend mt° them> by the ordinary way of mhltratwn. Ascites, to some extent, is not (infrequently produced by the presence ot cancerous masses in the fiver : this nrobablv the tumours themselves, or by cancerous matter developing inG38 TUMOURS AND NEW GROWTHS OF THE LIVER. them, or by fibrinous masses coagulated ■within their channel. Jaundice is often observed in cancerous disease of the liver: its production, doubtless, takes place in the same way as that just noticed; the gall ducts being obstructed and the escape of bile from various parts of the organ prevented. When the masses are so situated as to press on the common duct leaving the others free enormous distension of the gall-bladder may take place-it has been seen as large as the foetal head; such a result, however, is more likely to be produced by cancerous disease of the head ot the nancreas than by growths in the substance of the liver. Inmarj cancer of the liveris stated by Dr. Budd, seldom if ever, to occur before the a°-e of thirty-five : from this to fifty-five is the epoch at which it°most frequently manifests itself; but it is very rare at any age, so much so that some observers have called m question the occurrence of primary cancer in this organ. Secondary cancers of the liver may occur at any age . they seem according to Dr. Walshe, to affect a preference for the superfimal mrts of the organ. They are believed to be produced by the n^rt^on of^Vms i/the blood, or the lymphatic vessels The former mode of transmission is sometimes very clearly -h° by the occurrence of growing masses of cancer ' branches of the portal vein, starting from which they mfiltrate the organ Such growths are most often seen after primary cancer of the stomach or" intestines. Infection by the lymphatics is seen m cases where morbid growth creeps up into the liver by the tmme surrounding the portal vein and hepatic artery; and m some cases CEmcer^f the pylorus, duodenum, or head of the pancreas invades the liver by direct contiguity. Nevertheless, m most cases o secondary cancer the mode of conveyance of germs cannot be traced; it may, howcyer, occur in the keen subsequent to&,e«e of the mamma, kidney, uterus, or any other part, ihe secondary growth has been asserted by Waldeyer to take plane isolely &« the conveyed cells or germs ; but it is more probable that the liver Sr^cnf^ytlS^ in the intestines, butalso m a yer, remarkable form of 1™W‘«m°nr Cylindrical Epithelioma, Adenoma of the Liver xm markable form of tumour has at present been observed mveij few instances. In one which has faUe^^d£ d scattered tion of the editor numerous tumours were found scatter through the liver, which was greatly enlarged The, ■were firm, white, moist, and fairly vascular, they ^ nQ the surface central depression or umbilication, b -n sign of degeneration. No juice was obtained by of general their appearance was precisely that ot an neiSYPHILITIC AFFECTIONS OP THE LIVER. 639 medium firmness between scirrhus and encephaloid. The liver growths were plainly primary, no others occurring in the abdomi- Thi ^nSCOrf’ b?fc t,10re ^erc; secondary nodules in the lun°s. TI10 minute structure of the tumours had the mn<af cf,-i resemblance to that of a secreting gland consisting of LhS, kmf cmcal pouches, u with a pcrfeltfy cylindrical, sometimes spheroidal, or even resembling a pavement epithelium. There were also cystic spaces filled with clear fluid.*1 SYPHILITIC AFFECTIONS OF THE LIVER. ?yPSr°?UC6? !6Veral distmct morbid Processes in the liver. 1. Minute granulations are sometimpQ fmvnri ir-* i i \ fubtctr'^; ’“d ^-“Swan" t„°“ ^ 2. General interstitial hepatitis, or cirrhosis n times a consequence of svnbilis pQOr, ’ PPears to be some- individuals in whom no o hL Luse of ci°rrbUmng SyPMlltlc strated. It is possible tW “ Clrrboais can be demon- long been knotn, though &'*!?"* fl“ IlTf i end hate cancers. Thev agree irf-general with th!'.r<r?arded as Sealed (P- 203) of syphilitic gummatJbut LyeinThe?10n alr<;ady given lianties. The first stage is rarely met with wT' Cert!m pecu" bar circumstances come unrW tvL i W th, but has, under pecu- and Kanvier, who dSTS ? observation of Messrs. Oomil vascular, of a pinkish grey^Lo^LStLut1 th“ highly consistence. The minute Lnot,™ “out any juice, and of firm with intercellularsubstance showin" Tbryonic cells, Sis and degeneration into a in’oWite^ u f d°cided tendency to necro- distinctly formed tS*”- ^“““»» in th^t^st f^nStei3 Titt Jewish materiel are Sen faUlTS otherwise normal, and are pitPror i Te^ which is usually distinct fibrous capsule n>-olan 61 s1rrounded by a more or less into the surrounding tissue They8 are T lmPerceptible transition ssrss*tf 7,s“ caae « reported by Dr. Greenfield, « Trane. Path. Boo.” vol. w. 7640 SYPHILITIC AFFECTION8 OF THE L1VEE. described. There is much less difference than TOOsed between the yellow and the vascular portions, both consisting A adenoid tissue with nuclei. Fio. 144. Section of Ever showing the mode of growth of syphilitic tnmonrs. mu or at least the increase of these tumours, is effected The growth, oi at ieasi tissue with a nucleated new the type of weLay suppose that it was the thougb, M » many instances, this may be open to' somei ou ^ crumbling In the third stage the central P°fXLs fesue in the peripheral and cheesy, while the Production of fibrous parts forms a distinct capsule- T found in an actually softened results. The central part I in pultaceous senn- condition, but we have see igei as from SOme tubercu- fluid matter could be pres3*sed «out^p the degenerated lar vomicfB in the lu i , nLSOrbed and nothing but a mass portions often become completely abs^ by its remark- of fibrous tissue may remain. of which the liver tissue able power of contraction, m consequen kable changes of SK r«t PnckSd r “.Je set .? tte th”dmdTt seems641 PARASITES IN' THE LITER. remain. These scars are themselves very characteristic, and a puckered depression on the surface of the liver, especially if under- neath it is found a small mass of fibrous or cheesy matter, may be regarded as almost certainly syphilitic. The organ may, if these scars are numerous, assume a peculiar lobate appearance, like the compound livers of some of the lower animals. More rarely calcareous metamorphosis of the degenerated tissue occurs. Tubercle rarely occurs in the liver, except in cases of acute general tuberculosis. In this disease miliary tubercles are occa- sionally seen scattered through the gland, and more frequently still the microscope reveals minute tubercles, not visible to the naked eye. They are collections of small round cells, but are dis- tinguished from simple interstitial proliferation by their definite form, and by the central degeneration. Also in cases of tubercular disease in children, not precisely acute, we sometimes find evidence of tubercular disease in cheesy or calcareous nodules rarely larger than a pea, often bile stained, and asserted by some authorities to be specially connected with the bile ducts. The tubercle seldom, if ever, proceeds to an extreme degeneration or softening, so as to produce anything like an hepatic vomica. PARASITES IN THE LIVER. Hydatid,, or echinococcus cysts are of frequent occurrence in the liver, more so in this than in any other organ. Sometimes they . are single, sometimes there are several separate cysts. They often ■ attain a considerable size. Rokitansky mentions one in the Vienna Museum of a foot in diameter, and we have very recently examined one of an oval form, whose long diameter measured six inches. Their usual site is the right lobe, and the largest are generally found ! here ; but the one just mentioned was situated at the extremity of : the left, and had grown in, and far beyond, the left lateral ligament. . As their size increases they rise to the surface of the liver, and • sometimes excite inflammation of the serous membrane, by which adhesions are formed connecting them with the parts adjacent. The prominent part is, of course, that where least resistance is offered to the pressure of the fluid within, and its wall may hence atrophy and give way, or be destroyed in the course of suppurative inflammation, and the contents thus be effused into some neigh- ■ homing cavity. The cysts have been known to burst into the : peritoneal sac, into that of the right pleura, or into the bronchi of ' the corresponding lung, into the duodenum or transverse colon, ■ and in some rare instances, into a large blood-vessel or branch of ' the hepatic duct. When the tumour, in its progress, causes ulcer- ation of one of the smaller ducts, which is not uncommon, bile makes its way into the cavity, mingles with and tinges its contents, • and very often excites suppurative inflammation of the walls of the sac. This seems to be the reason that hydatid tumours in the liver T T04 2 PARASITES U? THE LIVER. suppurate much, more frequently than those in other parts.’ Other . circumstances, however, may certainly cause these cysts to inflame and suppurate. The detailed description of the structure of hj datid cysts will he found under the head of Parasites, p. 210; it will, therefore, he sufficient to mention here that they possess an outer wall or envelope, formed of condensed areolar tissue and that of • the surrounding structure; within which, and rather loosely adhering to it, is the proper membrane. This is white and lami- nated, and is itself lined internally by a softish layer m which the echinococci are developed. The cavity of the primary cyst is occupied in some instances by a transparent limpid fluid only; m others, and the majority, it also contains a numerous progeny of secondary cysts, sometimes sterile, sometimes containing .nnu- merahle scolices or echinococcus heads, known under the microscope by their ring of booklets. Dr. Budd mentions the interesting tact, that in cases where suppuration has occurred m the cavity of the primary cysts, the secondary hydatids, though floating in purulent matter themselves, contam a perfectly limpid fluid. He also points out characters whereby to distinguish between an abscess and a suppurated hydatid cyst, in the differences which the cystic membranes m the two cases present, inat ot an abscess consists of dense fibroid tissue, is not laminated, and never contains calcareous matter. The hydatid membrane docs not adhere so firmly to the surrounding tissue, is markedly lami- nated, and in old cases contains very often plate or grains of calcareous matter in its coats. When an hydatid tumour has evacuated its contents as above described, it may collapse and a cure he effected ; hut if its walls are veiy thick and film, and the cavity large, its obliteration in this way may be impossibly and then there is too much reason to fear that, owing to the ent™n“ of air or other matters, suppurative inflammation of the sac will be excited, and the drain exhaust the strength of the patient. But an hydatid cyst may come to a spontaneous cure in a different way, it! proper membrane, instead of secreting a watery fluid, may produce a putty-like matter, consisting of phosphate and mint carbonate of lime, with cholestenne and albuminoid matter, gen rally stained with bile. This accumulates within the sac, or so™ times around it, imbeds the secondary hydatids and ^ses tee to shrivel up and perish. Such a change reminds one forcibly pf the cretification of tubercle, which is often observed in casef , the tubercular process has ceased, and the deposited matt been partially absorbed. Hydatids in the liver ?-le , w frequently associated with hydatids m other parts, i ‘ , lobes of the lungs, or in the spleen, or m the mesentery, in , Some doubt may exist whether the ,taSlt* globules.ABNORMAL CONDITION’S OF THE BILIARY PASSAGES. 643 cases Dr. Budd is inclined to regard the hepatic cyst as the parent, and the others as originated from germs conveyed from it; but there is no reason to think that such a transference can take place within the same body, and it is more likely that several parasites or ova originally entered the body simultaneously. The peculiar form called echinococcus multiloeularis has already been mentioned (p. 219). _ It has never been seen in this country, and is confined, almost without exception, to South Germany and Switzerland. Distoma hepaticum, or the fluke, has been found in the human liver, and the ordinary parasite of the rabbit’s liver, the Pentas- tomum denticulatum, occurs very rarely; usually encapsuled and calcified. ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE BILIARY PASSAGES. Malformations.—The gall-bladder is sometimes wanting—in animals it has been found double; its shape may be variously deformed; its duct, as well as the common duct, may probably be impellorate. . The cystic and hepatic duct may remain separate, and communicate either both with the duodenum, or one with the duodenum and the other with the stomach. . Inflammation.—The mucous lining of the gall-bladder and ducts is often attacked with inflammation, which may extend from the duodenum, and spread upwards along the ducts. It is often of the catarrhal kind, and is essentially similar to the affection of the gastro-intestinal mucous surface; like it, subsiding after a time and leaving no traces of its existence behind. The effects it pro- duces will be those of vascular injection, some degree of tumefac- tion, shedding to a greater or less extent of the epithelium, and casting off of mucous corpuscles and various forms of immature epithelia, together with exudation of liquor muci of various degrees of viscidity and tenacity. The gall-bladder alone may be the seat oi acute idiopathic inflammation, or this maybe excited by un- healthy bile, or, perhaps, by the irritation of a calculus. The result oi such inflammation may be closure of the cystic duct, and conversion of the gall-bladder into an abscess. If the catarrhal inflammation, or that set up in any other way, attain a cer- tain degree of intensity, it causes the effusion of muco- purulent or purulent matter, and at the same time it seems to induce paralysis of the contractile coat of the biliary ducts • these tubes thus weakened, yield to the distending foroe within of the accumulating secretion, and become dilated at intervals into cyst-like pouches, tilled with muco-pus, tinged yellow or green by bile. The dilatation will, of course, be promoted, if the common duct, or the hepatic, is obstructed by a, calculus, or in any other way. After such pouches have existed a certain time, they become entirely cut off from the duct in which they originated, the tube becoming obliterated by644 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE BILIARY PASSAGES. 1 adhesion, and their contents then undergoing certain changes. Thus the muco-purulent matter may be converted into a clear glairy fluid, more or less tinged with bile; we have recently observed a case of this kind, and though we were some time in doubt as to the nature of the cyst, which was found in a healthy liver, we were soon convinced by detecting particles of columnar epithelium in . the matter lining its surface; besides the fluid in this case, there were several small whitish masses attached to the inner surface, consisting of a semi-homogeneous, semi-granulous, soft substance, containing imperfect celloid forms. We think it is too much to assume that all such tumours as contain a glairy fluid have originated in catarrhal inflammation; probably the morbid cyst- producing action is in many cases of a more chronic kind, and the fluid is glairy from the first. In a boy who died with pneumonia supervening on a tuberculized state of the lungs, we found the liver, with the exception of marginal oily accumulation in the lobules aud a somewhat atrophied condition of the cells, apparently healthy, except that here and there throughout its substance there were seen green coloured spots of the size of a pin’s head. These seemed to exist about the termination of the minuter portal canals, and were, doubtless, connected with the terminal ducts ; they con- sisted of yellow and orange or reddish pigment colouring matter, heaped up together and forming a mass which encroached on the parenchyma ; in one of them columnar epithelial particles were seen proving that a duct was involved in it. The cells contained no yellow matter, so that it was evident that these green masses had been produced by a morbid action set up m the minute ducts. Ulceration of the gall-bladder is not unfrequent; it may occur as a consequence of suppurative inflammation, or be set up in an oro-an which has been the seat of chronic disease, or occur m the course of remittent or typhoid fever, or be produced by the irri- tation of calculi, and probably also by that of unhealthy and acrid bile. The ulcers are sometimes small and numerous, sometimes there is but one large one : they are sometimes attended with sloughing of the coats, and sometimes go on to perforate the vail completely. When this happens the bile, if the gall-bladder con- tain any, escapes into the cavity of the peritoneum and rapidly excites fatal inflammation. If from long closure of the cystic duct, the gall-bladder contains no bile, but only a mucous or serous fluid& this does not escape so rapidly, and the inflammation is more limited to the neighbourhood of the liver. When meemtion is excited by the presence of gall-stones, it usually happens the bladder becomes adherent to some adjacent part, common y colon or duodenum, and, as the process advances, a communication is established between the two viscera, by means of which tiie calculus escapes into the bowel and may be discharged \\ e have, however seen a case in which fatal obstruction o the lutest ne= r.° OCCasioned by a gall-stone, which had probably escaped oy a fistulous opening from the gall-bladder. We do not know muc iABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE BILIARY PASSAGES. 645 ulceration of the ducts; the smaller branches are so rarely ex- amined, that its existence may have been overlooked. Dr. Budd records one very interesting case in which an ulcer of the common duct made its way into the superior mesenteric vein, close to its termination in the portal; the result was phlebitis of the vessel and purulent formations in various parts of the liver and the lungs, as well as in the skin and subcutaneous tissue of the head and face, and in some other parts also. If inflammation, attended, probably, with some amount of ulceration, attack the cystic duct, obliteration of its channel may be the result, or the same may be occasioned by a gall-stone lodging there. The gall-bladder now has become a closed sac, the bile which it contained is gradually absorbed and replaced by a mucous or glairy fluid; this is at first so abundant as to convert the bladder into a tense capsule, resembling, accord- ing to Rokitansky, the sound of fishes, but, afterwards, this fluid is reabsorbed and the gall-bladder contracts and shrivels. Oholeste- rine is often present in great abundance in the fluid contents of such gall-bladders; this is especially the case when the coats are diseased and thickened. The loss of the biliary reservoir seems to have no injurious effect on the health. The duct. com. choled. may be closed by concretions, cancerous growths, or croupy exudation : the outflow of the bile being thus prevented, it collects within the ducts and causes general dilatation of them. In such cases Rokitansky says the liver is in a condition resembling that of yellow atrophy, the parenchyma of a dark yellow or green colour, turgid, though pulpy and friable. Dr. Budd, in "the case he records, describes it as of a deep olive, finely mottled with yellow, the tissue flabby, but not easily broken down, the lobules undis- tinguishable. The cells in this and in another case were destroyed, and only granular and oily debris, mingled, in Dr. Budd’s case’ with yellow matter, remained. In two cases which we have observed, the cells were not destroyed ; they had a yellow or greenish tint, and were rather stunted, but not at all broken up. We injected in one a large dilated duct, and obtained the important result that the terminal ducts were not dilated, and were of about the same size as in healthy livers. Rokitansky says that ‘ ‘ this affection invariably proves fatal with symptoms of biliary infection of the blood and consequent cerebral disease, which is often combined with exudation on the arachnoid, with intense icterus, and extreme pain in the liver.” In Dr. Budd’s case there were no symptoms of cerebral poisoning, and the mind remained clear to the last. Croupy inflammation occasionally, but very rarely, attacks the gall ducts. “It gives rise to tubular exudations, in which the bile forms branched concretions, which block up the passages and if ?ause dictation of the capillary gall-ducts.” The coats of the gall-bladder may become cedematous in dropsy, or the subserous tissue infiltrated, as in peritonitis; increased deposit of fat mav also take place in the latter situation, and perhaps induce (coin- cide with ?) fatty degeneration of the muscular layer. Rokitansky646 BILIARY CALCULI. also notices the formation of osseous plates in the thickened parietes of gall-bladders which have been the seat of inflammation, and an increased production of fibroid tissue, which may be so firm and white as to give a cartilaginoid appearance. The biliary ducts very rarely contain tubercle. Cancer sometimes extends to the gall-bladder from the liver, or, it is said, may occur in it primarily; it forms nodules in the submucous tissue, or infiltrates the mucous membrane; more commonly its wall is perforated by growths in the liver, which push their way into its cavity. Fig. 145. BILIARY CALCULI. Two conditions of the bile in the gall-bladder deserve our close attention, on account of the important consequences which often result from them. One is, the bile being so loaded with colouring matter from concentration, or other causes, that a deposit of this substance takes place; the other is, the bile con- taining a large quantity of cholesterine. From these two sub- stances all biliary calculi almost are formed. _ They are far most common in the gall-bladder, but also occur in the ducts, both within and without the liver. ‘ ‘ Their * form and surface vary much. Single calculi are commonly round, oval, or cylindrical; when very large so as to occupy ” the entire cavity of the gall- bladder, they are frequently slightly curved; “if many exist together they mutually prevent their enlargement, and in conse- quence of the friction and pressure they exert upon one another they assume cubical, tetra- hedric, prismatic, or irregularly polyhedric shapes, with convex or concave surfaces. The calculi found in the ducts are generally cylindrical, occasionally branched, or entirely amorphous. The texture of the calculi may be & uniform or varied, in proportion as they con- sist of one substance or of several layers. Many show no distinct arrangement; some have an earthy pulverulent fracture, or a fibrous, striated, laminated, micaceous texture, as is particularly observed in calculi consisting of cholesterine.” Gall-stones are not of any great degree of consistence, they may some- times be compressed easily between the fingers: they are rather light, but not so much so as to float m water Their colour varies from a milky white to various shades of green, yellow, or brown: internally they often present an alternation of different coloured laminae. They may be s.u consist generally of cholesterine, mingled with a combmataon o pigment and lime in various proportions. Large gall-stone.. * Rokitansky, vol. ii. p. 162. Small irregular gall- stones, composed of in- spissated and altered Bile cemented by mu- cus. (From Dr. Budd’s "Work.)BILIARY CALCULI. 641 Fig. 147. Fig. 146. r •with the exception of their nuclei, consist almost entirely of cholesterine, and are therefore whitish and crystalline, their sectional surface presenting a number of striae radiating from the centre. Small gall-stones, resembling grains of black pepper of an irregular tuberculated form and almost black colour, are occasionally found: they consist almost entirely of pigment and earthy matter, the carbonate and phosphate of lime. Cholesterine generally forms the principal mass of biliary calculi; it often alternates with layers of pigment, and al- most always itself surrounds a nucleus of the same matter. Some are composed chiefly of carbonate of lime. The secretion of a large quantity of cho- lesterine does not seem to be the essential and adequate circumstance for the formation of gall-stones: the gall- bladder sometimes con- tains mucus loaded with sparkling tablets of this substance, with- out any trace of calculi. It seems most probable that pigment granules cemented together by mucus first constitute a nucleus, round which cholesterine afterwards is deposited in layers. Other matters, how- ever, may serve as a nucleus: blood, a por- tion of a distoma, or a lumbricus, or even a pin, are said to have been found in this situation. Gall-stones are not peculiar to, or specially associated with, any condition of the liver they are said to be most frequent with cancer, but very often occur in other states; they are more often found in females than males, in the proportion of 4 or 5 to 1,—rarely before, but often after the middle period of life. A sedentary life, and obese condition of body, are favourable to the formation of gall-stones; they are not, however, unfrequently present in lean and temperate persons. As cholesterine is a variety of fatty matter this might seem surprising, did we not remember that its formation may be referred to a kind of fatty degeneration, as veil as to the presence of an increased quantity of oil in the system. From a gall bladder which was shrunken, a calculus being impacted in the cystic duct. a, Cholesterine tablets, b, Glomeruli. Gall bladder and cystic duet containing calculi, which have a crust of pure cholesterine. The' two upper are divided. (From Dr. Budd’s Work.)BILIAHY CALCULI. G48 Cholesterine is certainly secreted often in large quantity by tne thickened coats of the gall-bladder, and by additions from this source the large solitary calculi are probably formed ; there is no doubt, however, that in other cases it is deposited from the bile, owing to the decomposition of the taurocholic acid or its salts, by which it is naturally held in solution. Calculi are often loose and free in the cavity of the gall-bladder ; sometimes they are attached to its surface by exudation, or included m compartments formed bv organized lymph. Small ones are sometimes, also, contained in saccular dilatations of the mucous membrane^ and may appear to lie external to the cavity of the gall-bladder. The following effects are produced by bibary calculi. They become impacted in the cystic duct, and occasion its obliteration, the gall-bladder under- o-oino- the changes that have been described. The same thing Sccufs, but much more rarely, in the common duct, which m straighter and wider; great distension of the gall-bladder and ducts, and occasionally rupture of the former, then take place. If on account of the angular shape of the stone the duct is only partially obstructed, the same effects are produced but in a less degree. While lodged in the gall-bladder calculi may excite irritation, thickening, inflammation, and suppuration of its coats, and sometimes ulceration. Of these we have lately spoken. Acephalo-cysts, and the distoma hepaticum, occur mrthe gall- bladder. For a description of them, see article Parasites, p. -14.CHAPTER XXXVII ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE PANCREAS, AND THE OTHER SALIVARY GLANDS. These are not very numerous. Congenital deficiency is observed only in very imperfect monstrosities, and excess of development is very rare. Hypertrophic enlargement, Rokitansky states, is alto- gether unusual, and when it does occur, affects chiefly the cel- lular tissue, which is interwoven with the glandular. We have, however, examined one specimen in which the ultimate vesicles weie stuffed with epithelium to such a degree, that their investing fibroid envelopes appeared stretched and distended, and the whole- gland was of a very remarkable density. We think minor degrees of this condition are not uncommon. Atrophy of the pancreas takes place in some instances spon- taneously, chiefly in advanced age; or it may result from chronic inflammation, or fatty degeneration. The organ may be soft and lax, or of leathery consistence. Inflammation, at least in the acute form, but rarely attacks the pancreas; it is, however, not infrequent in the other salivary glands, where it constitutes the disease termed Mumps. We have seen inflammation and suppuration of the parotid gland occur as the result of fever. The phenomena of inflammation are the same here as in other similar parts. The gland swells considerably, partly from the congestion of its vessels with blood, partly from exudation into the areolar tissue which envelopes it. In the ordi- nary case of mumps suppuration rarely takes place, and simple resolution occurs; but when the result is less favourable, the glandular structure becomes, in a measure, fused with the inter- stitial exudation, and probably penetrated by it also, and the whole mass softens and breaks down into purulent matter. This had occurred in the case of fever above alluded to. The suppura- tion may affect the whole gland, or be limited to distinct spots and form an abscess. Chronic inflammation of the parotid induces condensation, induration of the cellular tissue, obliteration of the acini, and either permanent enlargement, or subsequent atrophyG50 NEW GROWTHS OF THE PANCREAS AND SALIVARY GLANDS. * Handheld Jones, “ Trans. Path. Soc.," vol. vi. p. 223. of the gland. In such a case wo shall find a very large quantity of coarse fibrous tissue surrounding and enveloping the lobes and lobules of the gland, the gland-tissue more or less atrophied, and the epithelium containing much oil. A peculiar case of parotitis has been described by Dr. \\ lekham Leg-g, in which the gland was found pale and not at all hypenemic, possibly through some change involving hypertrophy of the epi- thelium and anaemia, as in some cases of kidney disease. It occurred in the course of chronic morbus Brightu. (“Trans. Path. Soc.,” vol. xx. p. 183.) Fatty degeneration of the pancreas is described by ltokitansky as frequent in drunkards, associated with fatty liver. It is not, how- ever, a degeneration of the same kind, but rather, from his account, seems to take place by intrusion of the surrounding adipose tissue on the wasting organ. A case of fatty degeneration has been reported as occurring in diabetes. True fatty degeneration was observed in a case where the gland was found lax and flabbv with numerous dead whitish spots upon its surface. It was exceedingly degenerated, almost all trace of glandular structure being lost, and only an amorphous, granular, and oily mass remaining, m wiucn were a great many fatty masses containing numerous fat-vesicles here and there. The body was exceedingly emaciated, all the fat in the abdomen and elsewhere being absorbed.* Serous cysts occur occasionally in the pancreas, and the other salivary glands. Lardaceous degeneration may affect the pancreas, though rarely. NEW GROWTHS OF THE PANCREAS AND SALIVARY GLANDs. Cancer does not select these glands as one of its ordinary sites. It does, however, affect them not unfrequently both primarily and secondarily. Scirrhus and encephaloid are the only two forms which occur. It is probable that, m several of the cases reported as cancer of the parotid, the disease was really seated m some of the adjacent or imbedded absorbent glands. The head of pancreas, where it is embraced by the duodenum, appears to be the part of the organ most frequently affected. As a result of the growth of the tumour, the ductus choled. is sometimes obstructed, and jaundice is produced. The disease may extend much further than this, according to Dr. Walshe implicating ‘ the duodenum, the omentum, mesentery, liver, and even the supra-ienal caD and kidneys.” Bokitansky says, “that the secondary affections of the salivary glands, by an extension of the disease from adjoin 1Do- organs, and in the case of the pancreas especially, by an ex- tension from the scirrhous pylorus, is very common. The pancreas is very little liable to new growth of . . ‘ ' Cancer is said to occur, though very rarely, as a primitive growth and grows in the form of circumscribed tumours, while the rest oNEW GROWTHS OF THE PANCREAS AND SAXIVARY GLANDS. 651 t Gascoyen, “ Trans. Path. Soe.,” vol. xi. p. 2G7. the gland becomes atrophied; though it may ultimately involve the whole. More often it spreads from some adjacent part, i.e., from the duodenum, stomach, or lymphatic glands. No other form of tumour is known to originate in the pancreas. The retro- peritoneal glands near the head of the pancreas and the surround- ing connective tissue are occasionally the seat of a sarcomatous growth, which becoming closely united with the pancreas and compressing its ducts, has sometimes been described as a disease of that organ, and is functionally the same. The parotid gland is much more commonly the seat of new growth. One form of tumour very characteristic of this part is myxochondroma, a soft form of cartilaginous tumour, in which the cartilage is intermingled with soft mucous tissue like that of a myxoma, and sometimes with cellular masses which would be called sarcoma. Forster states that it is sometimes combined with cancer, and mentions a case in which such a tumour was truly malignant, and produced secondary growths in distant parts. We might naturally suppose that these tumours do not arise in the gland itself, but in an adjacent lymphatic or in the connective tissue, nevertheless, secreting gland-tissue is sometimes found imbedded in the tumour.* We have also seen a spindle-celled sarcoma; and an internal nsevus or angioma has been described from the same situation.t True glandular tumours or outgrowths of parotid tissue not un- rrequently occur. Cancer may commence in the gland itself, in the surrounding connective tissue, or in one of the neighbouring lymphatic glands. It forms sometimes very large masses, which may grow downwards to the clavicles, inwards to the vertebral column, or behind the oesophagus, and sometimes ulcerate through the skin. Scirrhus and encephaloid occur most frequently, but epithelioma has also been described. Cancer of the submaxillary or sublingual glands uPP®.al's always to be an extension from the neighbouring lym- fjahwry fistula are usually caused by the progress of ulceration, thus, a perforating ulcer of the stomach may make its way into the pancreatic duct, and a like event may occur to the duct of ■- teno, which is oftenest perforated by extension of ulceration from the mouth. Dilatations of the ducts are produced in consequence of obstruc- tion ol their outlets, while the secretion accumulates and distends the canal. The obstruction may depend on an external tumour or a mucous plug, or on a calcareous concretion. Sometimes the uilatation occurs at several separate points; sometimes it forms tusitorm “or closely-set expansions, partially separated from one another by valvular folds formed by the coats of the duct.” Dila- • For cases with figures see Amott, “Trans. Path. 8oc„” vol xx n S. Jones, Ibid., vol. xxiii. p. 263. - P andABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE SPLEEN. 652 tation of the duct of the submaxillary gland, or Wharton’s duct, produces a tumour within the mouth which has received the name of Ranula. The salivary concretions, or calculi, are described by Rokitansky as “ white, friable, and either round, oblong, cylin- drical, or obovoid; in size varying from that of a millet seed or pea, to even that of a hazel nut. They are either solitary, or, if small, frequently very numerous (twenty and more); and they are composed of phosphate and carbonate of lime, held together by animal matter.” The saliva from which they are formed by depo- sition, must be, as Dr. Walshe remarks, in an unhealthy state; for while the concretions consist chiefly of phosphate of lime, sometimes containing 94 per cent., there exists very little of this salt in the normal secretion. “ It becomes, therefore, extremely probable that the excess of phosphate is generated through the influence of irritation of mucous membrane.” ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE SPLEEN. This or^an is generally absent in acephalous monsters; some- times it is wanting, together with the stomach, or the fundus of the stomach, in subjects otherwise well developed; or it may be itself alone in a rudimentary state. Small supernumerary spleens, which are often met with in the vicinity of the organ, are not to be regarded as instances of its multiplication, but of its subaivibion. The spleen is liable to very great variations m size, probably more than any other organ of the body. This depends chiefly on the very large size of its vascular system, and on the great quantity of vellow, elastic fibre contained in its structure, which allows it to be distended to a prodigious extent. Most, if not all, hypertrophies of the spleen, however, are produced not only by engorgement of the vessels, but by an alteration and increase of the red, pulpy parenchyma which they traverse. This parenchyma, consisting chiefly of lymphoid corpuscles, has certainly very close relations with the vascular system of the organ, some histologists asserting that the blood finds its way through spaces which have no regular walls. Whether this be the case or not, it is certam it will very readily admit of increase or diminution corresponding with the distension of the vessels. Its corpuscular elements appear to be also susceptible of rapid increase. . , •v We shall here only mention the degrees of change m size which the spleen may undergo. Rokitansky states, that “ the sp e?n unfrequently measures sixteen inches in its long, seven inches in its short, diameter, and four inches m thickness; its w g may amount to 13J lbs.,” or even, as others affirm, to 20 lbs. and upwards. One weighing 13 lbs. is reported by I • r Tranl Path. Soc.,” vol. xxii. p. 276), from a case where the white corpuscles of the blood were increased; another,653 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OP THE SPLEEN. described by Mr. Nunn (Ibid., vol. xiy. p. 252), weighed i3g lbs. ; and was not associated with any marked symp- toms. The opposite change of atrophy may reduce the spleen to the size of a hen’s egg, or a walnut. The form of the spleen is rather various. It may be tongue or platter-shaped, or cylindrical or globular. One of the most important circumstances to note under this head, is the great frequency of notches in its anterior border, which may be felt through the abdominal parietes when the organ is enlarged. The spleen is liable to various displacements, some of which are congenital, others the result of disease. Haller found it lying by the side of the bladder in a child one year old, Desault in the right side of the thorax in a new-born infant. It has been found in the left thoracic cavity when the diaphragm was absent, anu external to the abdomen in large umbilical hernia1, or where the abdominal parietes were fissured. Displacement may ensue from the enlargement or distension of adjacent parts, or from its own increase in size. Sometimes in the latter case it descends to, and slides off, the ilium, “ so as to occupy a diagonal position in the hypogastrium, and extend over the right ilium.” Hypertrophy of the Spleen.—Enlargement, without any notable change except hypersemia, takes place in many continued fevers and acute constitutional diseases, as enteric fever, erysipelas pyaemia, puerperal fever, &c. It then presents the following characters. The enlargement may be to twice or four times the normal size, the capsule appears tense, the gland plump and elastic, but on cutting it open it is soft and sometimes almost liquid, very vascular, and of a dark-red colour. H firm enough to form a distinct section it is either uniformly smooth, or more often coarsely granular. Microscopic examination (according to Forster) shows abundant new formation of smail lymph cells and nuclei, to which, rather than to the vas- cular fulness, the increase of size is due. The newly-formed cells and nuclei are often contained in large compound mother cells winch are found m various hyperplastic conditions in the spleen pulp and in the splenic vein. In other cases we have found, under the microscope, no very noticeable alteration of the structural elements. There may be some increase in the quantity of diffused granulous matters : but the nuclei appear quite natural. The change is one better judged of on a large than on a small scale. We have examined, at differ- ent times, numerous specimens of greatly enlarged spleen, but we have found little that could be regarded as characteristic of the several alterations. This is not surprising; it could not be expected that specific differences m the blood should mark themselves bv 1 corresponding varieties of form in the cell-growths of their exuda- ’ hors, any more than that the syphilitic virus should be detected bv • some special modification of the pus of a chancre. 3 Chronic hypertrophy is seldom unaccompanied by some other change; but cases of apparently simple hypertrophy do occur654 ABNORMAL CONDITION'S OF THE SPLEEN. such as was tho spleen weighing 13^ lhs., before-mentioned, where nothing abnormal was found in the spleen or in the blood. In Rickets the spleen is often enlarged, when the disease has lasted a long time. The enlargement appears to be accompanied by something resembling albuminous infiltration, distinct from lardaceous disease. , „ ,, In Syphilis, especially in the congenital form, there is some- times enlargement, with or without distinct tumours. In scrofulous disease, and tuberculosis, a general enlargement is also ^ Obstructive disease of the heart sometimes produces enlargement with hypercemia of the spleen; but the engorgement is less marked than in the case of the kidneys, liver, and other organs, whose veins open into the vena cava direct, since, in the case of the spleen, the liver intervenes to break the force of the backward ^In^lntermittent fever enlargement of the spleen is constantly observed. The hypertrophy is accompanied by abundant deposit of pigment, orange, brown, or black, in free granules through the pulp, or sometimes enclosed in cells. It may also be deposited in the Malpighian bodies, and sometimes thus produces a remaikable spotted appearance. The frequent occurrence of pigment in the spleen is probably duo to its liability to hemorrhage, which s in all organs so constant a cause of pigmentation.* Acute swelling of the spleen is said also to accompany the febrile paroxysm, or aSIn Tcucocijthemia constant enlargement of the spleen takes place. The substance is often quite natural, sometimes paler than usuab and sometimes with a peculiar smooth lustrous appearance. Th; appears to be a general hypertrophy of the organ inl all its; part*. The largest spleens known are found in connection with t - disease. Separate masses of lymphatic structure sometimes occur in the spleen in this disease. They are white, crumbling or .oft, and composed chiefly of lymphatic corpuscles. , r Great enlargement of the spleen is seen m the disease before referred to as Hodgkin’s disease, or lymphatic ancemw, m ^hich the lymphatic glands, and often the bver, are also enlarged The spleen is found large and hard; while contained in its substance, and projecting on the surface, are white or yellowish masses, vaiy- ££ in size, of firm, tough, glistening substance, rarely soft and opaque, not crumbling. The larger are often irrcgularlyconi., l,l-o infarctions Beside these masses ordinary infarctions, w.tn obstructed arteries, are sometimes found The a^jiUhous ni^s consist of lymphoid cells imbedded m a stroma, like that o • - phatic gland, which sometimes becomes amorphous, gran . , . We may liere repair an omission mete portion is doubtless due to congestion and liteinorrlinge, as already stated on p. 163.(ioo ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE SFLEEN. translucent, as if infiltrated with waxy material, but is never stained by iodine. * Lardaceous degeneration of the spleen frequently occurs simul- taneously with the same disease in other viscera. It usually com- mences in the Malpighian corpuscles, which become enlarged into translucent granulations an eighth of an inch or more in diameter, miich resembling grains of sago, whence the spleen in this con- dition has been called the “sago spleen.” In later stages the whole structure becomes infiltrated with translucent material, and in both cases the substance is firm, tough, and amemic. There is a constant, and sometimes very considerable, increase of size. Iodine produces the characteristic reddish-brown colour. Atrophy of the spleen most commonly occurs as a senile change but is also found independently of old age in various wasting diseases, especially those accompanied by ansemia, unless there happen to be any disease of the organ. The size of the organ is aiso reduced, probably by pressure, in abundant peritoneal exuda- tion ; and m chronic peritonitis, unless there be any other condi- tion tending to enlarge it. It would seem as if even acute perito- mtis had some tendency to prevent enlargement of the spleen which might otherwise occur in some febrile diseases. Atrophic spleens differ much in colour, vascularity, and consistence, but are frequently more fibrous than natural. Hypera-mw of the spleen occurs both from mechanical causes and from the causes enumerated as producing acute enlargement’. Itokitansky remarks that though it occurs in organic diseases of the heart and m hepatic obstructions, it does not amount to the extent, nor take place so frequently as might be expected, and he accounts for this by the deranged circulating fluid having no a vk1 fT tlssue1 oi spleen. Distension of the abdomen with fluid appears to have some effect in preventing the swelling and hyperaemia which would otherwise occur. In the bodies of >!]',?nTinedTL)el'mUS itlie sPle®ni is ,f°und gorged and distended with blood. This blood, no doubt, might all be washed out by infectin'* the vessels with water, and the organ would return to its normal mze ; but when congestion comes to be permanent, the exudation which takes place in the red parenchyma causes multiplication of phied°rmal C°18 and nuclel’ aud tde spleen is then truly hypertro- An anasmic state of the spleen is observed in the highest decree when the parenchyma is infiltrated with lardaceous matter before noticed; but it also exists in many atrophic conditions, as in old • Wounds and Ruptures of the spleen occasionally happen from LnJip1Cf\pr accidents- dhe 0,dy point of interest respecting these is, that there appears, from the observations of Mr. Athol Johnson^ • Case:, maybe found reported in “ Trans. Path. Soc.,” vol iv n 177- 259 , vol XI. p. 2o7 vol. xi. pp. 247, 269; vol. xix. p. 401: ixii n 279P' aL„\- ? Vx' ?• Hospital Reports,” Third Series, vol. ii„ by Dr Wilks P' 278' ^Isom Guy’sabnormal conditions of the spleen. GoG ground to believe that under careful management they do not necessarily prove fatal. Spontaneous ruptures of the spleen have also occurred in conditions of intense congestion, and when the texture of the organ was probably weakened, as in typhus, cholera and the cold stage of ague. These always prove fatal. ..uch accidents suggest the prudence of handling the abdomens of fever Prim„y inflammation ot tbe.pleen,” E*tan- sky says, “ is as rare as spontaneous primary phlebitis ; ^comlarv Ly»»t aa secondary phlebitis.” Primary ^ spleen, unless ending in resolution, gives rise to the production of laudable pus or fibnne. The pus may be contained m a circum- scribed abscess, and thence become obsolete, or ‘fw^thoTadc on enlarging until the abscess makes its way into the left thoracic cavity the°stomach, the transverse colon or the peritoneum When the latter event happens, circumscribed peritonitis often forms a sac for the pus with the aid of the suiroundm0 parts. The causes and pathology of spontaneous splenitis are very obscure. The secondary splenitis of Rokitansky seems to be identical with pveemic abscess. The deposits are well defined, always situated at tfi^periphery, usually of a cuneiform shape the apex directed Swards ; their colour is considerably darker than the Bnrroundmg tissue and their consistence firmer. A ring of reactive lnflamm tion is often set Up around them. The process may (according to Rokitansky and Forster) terminate either in the case of a beDio- nant fibrinous exudation in conversion ofttosintoa c^£fibr callus which contracts and causes a cicatiix on the surface, or thecase of a less healthy exudation in the conversion of this into flSm, c»amy mi, or into,* cantons, greemsb, greemsb- brown, or chocolate-coloured pulp. oi'm-nle or The pvmmic blocks have much resemblance to the simple or fibr ino ns blocks, and have doubtless often been confounded^ them, while the actual heabng of pymmic abscess.3S^°u01i de- scribed by good authorities, seems open to doubt. blocks, or Secondary abscesses, seem to drflerJiomi J J « blocks in their rapid suppuration, irregular shape, and. m toe>co S inflammation of the capsule nhen fc,are Hemorrhagic Infarctions or Fibrinous A/oc/^.-Thebiock,o factions of the spleen are among the most teristic morbid appearancesn°tAts°,^s lained before, their form no further anastomosis one mth anoth<er, . Yeins hlocked up the circulation cannot he restored, a 1 • JXisr piXV> a «u be «u-tABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE SPLEEN- 657 blocks correspond to the areas marked by the terminal division of branches of the splenic artery., where they break up into the diverging brush of small twigs called the penicillium. The blocks are accordingly wedge-shaped or pyramidal, with the apex towards the hilus of the spleen; and in the typical cases coinciding with the ultimate breaking up of the artery. Coagulation once set up in this space may, however, extend beyond its limits, so that the shape becomes irregular. The cause of the arrest of the circula- tion must be, in most cases, the obstruction of the artery, but it is not quite clear whether a somewhat similar condition may not result from blocking of the vein. The arterial obstruction is not always produced by the same cause. Sometimes it is due to embolism, and hence, in a large number of cases of blocks in the spleen, we find cardiac disease, and especially vegetations on the valves. But sometimes no such antecedents can be demonstrated, and it appears that there must be spontaneous coagulation of blood in the artery, perhaps assisted by some diseased condition of the arterial wall, or from some mor- bid condition of the blood. This is especially the case in fevers, where blocks sometimes occur without any source of embolisms'. In either case infarction results in the manner already traced, and the block, once formed, goes through the changes described above (p. 397). . In the end, a mass of fibrous tissue results, which shrinks into a i cicatrix, and after a time nothing but a depression on the surface imay remain, unless, as sometimes happens, calcification occur. The accompanying hypersemia and inflammation always cause : some swelling of the gland, which, if the blocks are numerous, as : they often are, may be very considerable. This is, perhaps, the ' “ost frequent cause of the splenic enlargement in cardiac (disease. Cancer and New Growths.—Primary cancer is so exceedingly rare tthat it may be doubted whether any unquestionable case has yet been reported. Secondary cancer occurs chiefly as the sequel of eeancer of the stomach, or some other abdominal viscus ; but even tthis is very uncommon. Of simple tumours, lymphomata or lymphatic growths, already ? spoken of, are the commonest, and appear sometimes to have their rprrmary seat in the spleen. Fibroma and angioma, or cavernous tumour, have also been described. Isolated masses of splenic tissue, forming distinct tumours, are sometimes observed. Tubercle occurs, for the most part, in the spleen only in acute ^universal tuberculosis; it occurs more frequently in children than :=m adults, in the proportion of 40 to 13. It appears both in the form °f grey granulations, yellow miliary tubercles, or yellowish ' Cheesy masses, of the size of a pea and above. In acute tubercu- losis the spleen is described by Eokitansky as becoming swollen and softened, much as in a typhous state. The tubercles are here Suusually hard, grey, and like those in other organs. But in cases u u658 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE SPLEEN. which are rather more chronic, the spleen often contains tuhc-i - cular masses larger than those in other organs; and it seems as Fia. 148. Fie. 149. Masses of yellow tubercle in spleen. if a single tubercle were capable of attaining a larger size in the spleen than elsewhere except in the brain. _ Syphilitic qummata are occasionally seen m the spleen. Cysts.—We have occasionally observed small cysts in the spleen, “ or, perhaps, to speak more accu- rately, in its capsule ; in a female of middle age dying with fever, there were several small, firm nodular prominences on the anterior border; they were of conical shape and lightish red colour, appearing like so many growths on the surface; under the micro- scope they were found to be small cyst-like cavities of varying size (one measured J^-inch dia- meter), oval or spherical, contain- ing numerous large granule-cells floating in a transparent liquid. Hydatid cysts are sometimes found in the spleen alone, or. con- currently with one in the liver. It rarely attains the * reaches in the latter organ. Dr. Coley exhibited to ‘ . logical Society a specimen of the magnitude ol a cocoan • . astomum denticulatum was found in one case incapsulated and calcified by Wagner. Cyst in the capsule of the spleen, containing a clear fluid and glomeiuli.ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE THYROID GLAND. 659 Dermoid cysts, containing fat and hair, have in rare cases been observed. Changes in the Capsule.—The fibrous capsule of the spleen is very frequently the seat of chronic fibroid thickening, which sometimes proceeds to a very great extent. The thick- ened membrane has much the aspect of cartilage, but none of its real characters. Usually the thickening extends pretty uni- formly over the surface, leaving, however, here and there, spots less affected; some- times it forms nodular masses grouped together, and sometimes patches which look like drops of tallow deposited on the sur- face. In one case we examined carefully, it was very apparent that the thickening had taken place on the inner surface of the capsule, at the expense of the parenchyma, and we are inclined to think this is generally the case. Certainly the process is distinct from the formation of bands of adhesion to adjacent parts. A thickening of the capsule may be all that remains of a wasted block. Ossification of the thickened fibroid layers takes place, though rarely, and chiefly in very old persons. Morbid Conditions of the Vessels.—Extreme atheroma of the splenic artery leads as in other cases to wasting of the organ. Thrombosis of the vein occurs not unfrequently in leuchaemia; and sometimes in other conditions, especially, as it is said, in suppuration. Phlebolithes may form in the venous channels thus obstructed. Fig. 150. Fibroid thickening of capsule, encroaching on the dark parenchyma. Vertical section. ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE THYROID GLAND. We are not acquainted with any instance of excessive congenital development of this gland, unless the rare occurrence of simple hypertrophy should be regarded as such. Mr. Curling has recorded in the “ Medico-Chirurgical Transactions ” (vol. xxxiii.), two instances of its absence in idiots. The most complete account of its morbid alterations is that given by Professor Hasse, from Which we shall extract the greater part of the following summary : — Inflammation of the thyroid is rare. It may attack the organ either when healthy or when enlarged by previous disease. Its course is more frequently chronic than acute. Within a very Dnef interval the gland often swells considerably,—becomes very blood-shot, tense, and painful,—its texture softened and friable, assuming first a brown-red, and ultimately a dingy-grey colour.’’ When suppuration occurs, there may be several foci, or one large one involving the whole gland. The abscess may open externally ii°or CES0P1'laglls. or into the trachea, as in a case figured by JJr' •baLLil°. After this has occurred the gland on the side affected6G0 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF TOE THYROID GLAND. shrivels “ into a hard, cellular, filamentous knot, which adheres firmly to the skin and the surrounding parts. Sometimes the shrivelling of the one gradually brings on wasting of the other lobe.” Andral states that acute tumefaction of the thyroid may come on after violent exertion. Simple enlargement of the thyroid is frequent, says Hasse, and for the most part inconsiderable; but it implicates the entire gland, and thus may cause greater disturbance than a more extensive tumour of another kind. “ Both lobes of the gland, and even the middle one, swell so as to encroach equally on each side, against the trachea and vessels of the neck.” The affection is almost wholly confined to youth, and is frequent about the age of puberty in both sexes—more so, however, in the female, in whom enlargement is especially apt to prevail at the approach of the menstrual period. The essence of simple hypertrophy seems to be the derangement of the equilibrium naturally existing between the processes of secretion and absorption that continually go on in the gland. "When the former predominates, the vesicles, and of course the whole organ, become distended. Enlargement of the thyroid, especially of its vascular system, accompanied by violent pulsation of the heart and prominence of the eyeballs, constitutes the disease known as exophthalmic ^ Chronic Enlargement, Bronchocele or Goitre.—In the chronic and permanent enlargements of the thyroid a more considerable amount of change takes place. The vesicles of the gland are not only un- tended by excess of their natural secretion, but, besides being greatly enlarged, are filled with calcareous, atheromatous, and other matters. It is probable that some new vesicles are fonned as well as old ones enlarged. Hasse makes two. separate varieties of melicerous degeneration and cystic formation; but we think they run so much into one another that they may be classed together. In the pure melicerous degeneration the secretion which distends the vesicles, and some of them much more than others^is a tenacious, jelly-like substance, of the colour of honey. Ihe vessels seem to be usually compressed, so that the gland appears bloodless. The change is sometimes limited to certain portions, an interesting instance of the power which the vitality of eac in- dividual elementary part has in determining the character of it. actions. In the more common cases of enlarged thyroid the vesicles contain, beside colloid matter, more or less inspissate* or fluid, varying quantities of calcareous, often ossiform substance- Tablets of cholesterine and other fatty matter seem to be n unfrequently present, probably as the result of fatty degenera i.on. An instance related by Dr. Haen shows the great vane y appearance which the contents of the cysts may present. He says that in a frightfully enlarged thyroid he found almost every variety of tumour existing together. “ Heie was a steato , an atheroma, in another place a purulent tumour, in another an661 abnormal conditions of the thymus. hydatid; in one there was coagulated, in another fluid blood, on this side was a loculus full of glutinous matter, on that was one filled with calcareous matter mingled with tallow.” One of the cystic cavities sometimes enlarges prodigiously at the expense of the others ; Andral relates having found a thyroid transformed into a cyst with bony walls filled with a honey-like matter. _ Another kind of enlargement of the thyroid consists in the dilata- tion of its vessels, constituting what is called vascular or aneurismatic bronchocele; though, according to Forster, this term has been applied to ordinary bronchocele when very vascular. The veins in particu- lar, writes Hasse, form very dense, capacious, often knotted plex- uses, and the whole texture consists, apparently, of a dense coil of vessels. The substance of the gland has almost entirely lost its granular character—it is flabby and dark-red. After death, the tumour collapses considerably. The walls of the arteries and veins are attenuated ; the dilated membranes of the vessels contain con- siderable clots, and capacious cavities are found filled with black coagulated blood. In a remarkable specimen which seemed in part to belong to the above class, we found the greatly dilated vessels completely coated with oily matter, so as in some parts to appear like white cylinders by direct light. At the same time the glandular vesicles were destroyed, and only some traces of their epithelium could be discovered; a most important feature of the alteration, which is not mentioned by Hasse in the above descrip- tion, though it seems inferable, from his statement, that the granular (vesicular) character of the gland is almost entirely lost. New Growths, Tubercle is very rarely found in the thyroid* a case is, however, figured by MM. Cornil and Eanvier. Cancer is also very uncommon, but when it does occur is more often primary than secondary. The growth usually affects part only of the organ, and owing to its situation may cause death bv compression of the trachea, or may ulcerate into the air passages or oesophagus. Probably for this reason the disease has, in the ffew cases recorded, generally remained confined to this organ, and not become distributed over the body. In a case observed by the edum®dullary cancer arose somewhat rapidly in a thyroid which had for many years been affected with ordinary broncho- cele ; and it appears, from instances quoted by Virchow, that this has been the case in several of the few recorded cases of thvroid cancer. J ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE THYMUS. Absence of the thymus in infants has only been observed in cases oi acephabsm. Inflammation is an exceedingly rare occurrence ■ out Hasse refers to two cases, m one of which an abscess is said to •ii*p.63an9':Path'8oC‘’” vol-xjdi- p- m Virchow, “ Krankh. GeschwUlste,” vol.662 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE 8UPRA-RENAL CAPSULES. have opened into the trachea. In cases of tuberculosis the thymus is occasionally involved; it becomes considerably enlarged, firmly united with surrounding parts, and either converted by tubercular infiltration into a hardened mass, or else partially destroyed by softening.” Mr. Simon mentions a case in which suffocation was occasioned by the pressure of a tumour appa- rently of sarcomato-cystic character in the situation 01 the thymus, and Sir Astley Cooper met with a case of encephaloid growth in this part. „ ,, . , The thymus is not unfrequently found greatly enlarged; but the nature of the hypertrophy, as it is called, has not been exactly determined by microscopic observation. It is tolerably certain that this enlargement is not, as has been supposed, the cause of attacks of sudden and sometimes fatal dyspnoea occurring in children. For it has been shown that ‘ thymic asthma,” as it is termed, may occur with an unnaturally small thymus; and that the gland may be greatly increased in size without producing any symptoms of dyspnoea. The thymus is the starting-point of some of the lymphatic mediastinal tumours before referred to. They appear to begin with a simply homologous growth, since the structure of some ol these growths resembles that of the normal thymus. Generally they remain simple tumours, but in some cases infiltration ol neighbouring parts and of the lungs occurs, and the growth is decidedly malignant. The cancers formerly described as cancers of the thymus were probably of this kind. ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE SUPRA-RENAL CAPSULES. The supra-renal capsules may be deficient, especially where there is a deficiency in other organs also. Their absence, however, does not coincide with that of any other organ m particular, and they may be present when one kidney is absent, so that their name must not be taken to imply any correlation of function. Accessory supra-renal capsules are of frequent occurrence. They are some- times found hypertrophied, but the nature of the enlargement oe~ not appear. It is said that they are unusually large in negroes, and that the cortical substance contains an unusual quantity of pigment. Their normal condition is one of at least relative atrophy, that is, they do not grow and increase m size togetiier with the other parts of the body. ,, • •. The principal indications of atrophy are manifested, we «nnK, by the shrinking and diminution of the medullary substance, a the breaking up of the cortical cells into oily masses. It is . esting to compare the condition of the degeneratmg capsule wi that of an hepatic lobule. In one instance, where a careful search was made, at our request, for the supra-renal capsules in of a child six years old, who had died from a burn, noABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE STJPRA-RENAL CAPSULES. 663 them could be found, but a small quantity of lax, dirty-looking, reddish, infiltrated, areolar tissue, which presented under the microscope only a mixture of altered granulous nuclei, large granulous or oil-holding cells, and a very large quantity of diffused granulous matter imbedding some oil drops. This was a case of unusually early atrophy. Another indication of atrophy is afforded by the apparent formation of a central cavity, which appears to exist in some cases quite distinct from that of the vein. It is formed, we believe, by the wasting of the medullary substance, and the production thereby of a space which is traversed by blood- vessels, and occupied only by serum, and a little stromal fibre. In this way a lax spongy tissue is formed, which softens by post- mortem decomposition, or is easily torn, and the appearance of a cavity thus produced. Haemorrhage.—Bokitansky says, “ hemorrhage not unfrequently occurs in them, on account of the vascularity of their medullary substance. The capsule is found distended in proportion to the amount of extravasation caused by the rupture of a vein; and according to the period which has elapsed since the occurrence of hemorrhage, we find the blood more or less discoloured and changed in constitution, inclosed within the cortical substance, which has become pale and atrophied, and is finally converted into a fibroid layer.” Suppuration and induration are occasionally met with as results of inflammation of these glands. They have been found converted into purulent pouches in the newborn child and in the foetus. Constant Alterations.—The changes which occur so constantly as almost to be regarded as normal, are fatty degeneration and pig- mentation. The former affects the cortical portion, where fat is found deposited in the cells. Though regularly present in the adult, this fat is said by Klebs to disappear from the cells in old persons, and also in the indurative conditions dependent on venous congestion or other causes. It is difficult to recognize any excess of fatty change as pathological. Pigmentation is also found in the cortical portion, but affects especially the inner layers of this, nearest the medullary portion. The pigment is deposited in a granular form in the cells; it is, in masses, brown, but in small quantity appears yellow. The pigmented portion becomes broader in old. age; and with the increase of pigment becomes softer, so that it is easily broken down on removal from the body, and appears as a brownish detritus. This pigmentation has been supposed to be connected with the excessive coloration of the skin observed in some diseases of these organs; but if there is any relation, it must be one of antithesis, since when the skin is thus darkened, there is usually absence of pigment in the capsules. Lardaceous degeneration often affects the supra-renal capsules when present in other abdominal viscera. The organ is enlarged, pale, hard, the medullary portion generally translucent, the664 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF TIIE SURRA-RENAL CAPSULES. cortex more often opaque and fatty. In less advanced cases the central portion only may be affected. Iodine produces the usual coloration, affecting chiefly the blood-vessels and partly the fibrous septa. No special symptoms are known to be connected with this condition. Tumours and New Growths.—Cancer occurs both primarily and secondarily. The primary occurrence is not common. Klebs describes a case in a child aged eleven, where both the capsules were converted into tumours, one the size of a fist, the other smaller, of typical cancer, with angular cells contained in alveoli. Numerous secondary tumours had been formed in the mesentery, liver, and lungs. Another primary cancer of one supra-renal is described by Dr. Ogle, from a child (“Trans. Path. Soc.,” vol. xvi. p. 250). Secondary cancers are more often observed subsequent to the same disease in the stomach, kidney, mamma, &c., and may affect both or one only. Sarcoma has rarely been described as such, but doubtless some of the cases of so-called cancer belong here (“ Trans. Path. Soc.,” vol. xviii. p. 260). It is important to observe that these organs are one of the few original seats of melanotic sarcoma. Cavernous tumour or angioma has been observed in one case, and a cavernous lymphangioma in another. No characteristic symptoms are known to be connected with any of the above changes, or only a slight discoloration of the skin different from that seen in the true Addison’s disease.' The cases collected by Dr. Addison, in his original paper, included two of cancer; but subsequent observation has made it evident that these should be separated from the typical cases of the disease which is associated with his name. Syphilitic growth has been observed in one case of congenital syphilis. . ... Tubercle occurs, though not very often, in the miliary form m cases of acute general tuberculosis. In chronic cases, masses of yellow cheesy matter are sometimes found, constituting what was formerly called scrofulous matter or yellow tubercle., Tins has much resemblance to the morbid changes in Addison s disease, but we wish to draw attention to the fact that such material may be found in the one, or even in both, supra-renals, independently of that disease (“ Trans. Path. Soc.,” vol. xxi. p. 200), though not without similar morbid products in other, organs. Yirchow has given the best description of tubercle in these organs. He describes it as beginning in the medullary portion as miliary tubercles, which become confluent and soften down; while the process extends to the remainder of the organ. He regards this as the beginning of Addison’s disease, but the case mi which he builds this hypothesis seems to have been one of acute tuberculosis, and did not present unquestionable symptoms of Addison s disease, this question is again discussed below. • See twenty-two cases collected by Dr. Greenhow (“ Trans. Path. Soc., vol. xvii. p. 316) of undoubted cancer, where this assertion is strictly borne out.665 addison’s disease. Cysts.—A cystic condition of these organs is described by Vir- chow f.s struma supra-rerale ; and a form of lymphatic cavernous tumour (lymphangioma) has also been described; but both are very rare. Addison's Disease; or Melasma Supra-renale.—This name is given to the disease first distinguished by the late Dr. Addison, in which a peculiar degeneration of the supra-renal capsules is associated with extreme cachexia and peculiar pigmentation or bronzing of the skin. These three characters are nearly constant, but of the two latter, one, more often the cutaneous affection, is sometimes wanting, though the anatomical characters of the supra-renal bodies and the general course of the disease may be enough to identify it. We are here only concerned with the supra-renal bodies, th9 changes in which, though not always quite the same, are constant in certain features. The organ is always enlarged, its fibrous envelope thickened and adherent to the surrounding parts. The substance, hard, nodulated; all distinction between the cortical and medullary portions lost; and the natural structure quite obliterated. The adventitious material which occupies the place of the normal structures appears in two forms at least. First.—A translucent fibroid material, sometimes quite resembling cartilage in appearance, of a greyish or sometimes slightly greenish colour, said by Dr. Greenhow to “ assume a pinkish hue on exposure to the air.” Secondly.—White or yellowish opaque crumbling material, resembling “ scrofulous matter” or “ crude tubercle.” Beside these two substances are seen collections of creamy liquid, like softened tubercle, and sometimes cretaceous matter; the two latter being apparently derived from metamor- phosis of the whitish crumbling material. The different matters are sometimes mingled together so as to produce a mottled appearance, one passing imperceptibly into the other, sometimes the translucent material forming a diffuse infiltration, and especially becoming continuous with the thickened envelope, while the white opaque matter is enclosed by it in distinct masses. The general naked-eye appearance seems to us more like that of certain syphilitic gummata, especially of the brain, than any other morbid product. In typical cases of Addison’s disease, when the change is far advanced, certainly no miliary tubercles are ever seen. Minute Changes. —Microscopical examination of these products has yielded rather unsatisfactory results. The grey fibroid mate- rial is found to consist of connective tissue, with a granular fibrillated matrix, nuclei, and sometimes spindle-cells; but is sometimes nearly amorphous, perhaps from secondary degenera- tion. This appearance has suggested the term lardaceous to some observers, but it is quite distinct from lardaceous disease pro- perly so called, and is unstained by iodine. The opaque por- tions eonsist of material obviously in the state of necrosis or decay: shrunk and withered cells, like what were formerly called6S6 addison’s disease. “ tubercle-corpuscles,” amorphous granular matter, and fat mole- cules without any organizing structure to connect them. The creamy puriform liquid is not true pus, but debris of tissue, granular matter, and fat, like softened caseous material from other sources. Occasionally residual portions of the original structure, especially of the cortical cell-cylinders, are found imbedded in the new growth. Sometimes a small-celled infiltra- tion is seen between these degenerated masses. This has been compared to interstitial hepatitis (Burdon Sanderson). Relations to Tubercle.—The most important anatomical question with respect to these changes is, whether or not they are due to the original production of tubercle. Although miliary tubercle is rarely found in the organ itself, and perhaps never in advanced cases, it frequently occurs simultaneously in other organs, and it is not to be denied that the appearances closely resemble those seen in old pulmonary phthisis, or other tubercular disease, where the fibrous and caseous metamorphoses go hand in hand; so that nothing disproves the possibility of the disease having been tuber- cular in the first place. Again, without calling it tubercular, we might class it with the degenerative inflammatory conditions, called scrofulous, like some forms of pulmonary phthisis. Finally some pathologists regard it as an affection sui generis neither scrofulous nor tubercular. . . It has been described as tubercular by the majority of hnglish observers, as well as by Virchow, Rokitansky, and Rindfleisch. On the other hand, Wilks, Burdon Sanderson, and others describe it as different from tubercle. Greenhow thinks there must be some intimate relation between this lesion and the tubercular dia- thesis. Klebs regards the question as uncertain, and describes it by the neutral name of fibro-caseous change ; believing some cases to be tubercular, others decidedly not. The fact seems to be, that in well-marked cases tubercles proper are never found, but that the appearances are not inconsistent with what would be found m late stages of the diseases commonly associated with tubercles. Out oi 128 unquestionable cases tabulated by Dr. Greenhow, forty-ax were virtually uncomplicated, seventy-two were complicated wit some tubercular or scrofulous disease, while ten were combined with some other serious disease, but not with tubercle; so that in 56 per cent, tubercle was present in other organs. Nature of Addison's Disease— With regard to this question, which is far too complex to be fully discussed here, we can only say, that it seems to be now proved that the other symptoms of the disease are • Klebs enumerates 159 -well-marked cases (omiting all doubtful or observed) and finds that fifty-five were deoidedy non-tub^^ tt^»rdm its widest acceptation), eighty-six were combined with tubercle eitfier organ or elsewhere, while in eighteen the tmbercular character was ^.hj]e Ihis non-tubercular cases, eleven only were without pigmentation of the skm, the re with thirty out of the eighty-six tubercular cases, which seem, toshow that the non-tubercular disease has a more powcrful inHuence ^n P ^lderaUon that affection than has the tubercular. This may be explained bv the cons possibly the tubercular cases were in an earlier stage of disease.667 Addison’s disease. in some way caused by the disease of the supra-renal bodies. They must therefore depend in some way upon an interference with the obscure functions of those organs. It is, however, as yet unex- plained why such conditions as injury, haemorrhage, lardaceous degeneration, cancerous disease, the growth of various kinds of tumours, even tubercular disease in a tolerably advanced stage, do not produce the same results as the chronic diffuse degenerative change we have described; or why these symptoms should not occur when the organs are wasted in an extreme degree, or even, as it would seem, quite absent.* • The following references may he made to the chief sources of information on Addison’s disease. Addison on “ Disease of the Supra-renal Capsules,” 1855. Wilks, “ Guy’s Hospital Reports,” ser. m. vol. viii. 1862. Greenhow, “ Trans. Path. Soe.” vol. xvii. p. 610 (large collection of cases). Virchow, “Die Krankh. Geschw,,” vol. ii. p. 688. Klebs, “Path. Anat.,” p.585, Berlin, 1870. Martineau, “De la Maladie d’Addison,” Paris, 1864. Averheck, “Die Addison’sche Krankheit,” Erlangen, 1869 (the two latter works we have not had access to). Besides numerous cases in “ Trans. Path. Soc.,” from vol. viii. onwards, by Baly, Hutchinson, Wilks, Greenhow, Mur- chison, Bristowe, and many others.MOKBID ANATOMY OF THE URIXAEY APPARATUS. CHAPTER XXXYIII. ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE KIDNEYS. Congenital Anomalies.—The kidneys are very rarely absent entirely; but it is not uncommon to find one only. In this case Rokitansky makes a distinction between tbe unsymmetrical and tbe solitary kidney. Tbe former bas its usual position and shape, and is only larger than natural. Tbe solitary kidney is produced by tbe more or less complete fusion of tbe two organs together ; in its lowest degree it constitutes tbe borse-sboe kidney, tbe lower parts of each being connected by a band of renal substance pass- ing across tbe vertebral column. In tbe highest degree, there is only a single disc-bke kidney, lying in tbe median line, and situated much lower down, at tbe promontory, or in tbe concavity of tbe sacrum. When one kidney is absent, it is far more often tbe left than tbe right, in tbe proportion of 7 to 2. It may be absent altogether as well as tbe ureter and corresponding renal vessels, but sometimes a small mass of fibrous tissue with a renal vein and artery is seen surrounding a comparatively normal pelvis and ureter leading into tbe bladder. Anomalies of Position.—Tbe kidney is sometimes found much lower than its usual situation, either at tbe level of the promon- tory of tbe sacrum or quite in tbe pelvis, sometimes in the middle line. In such cases it is usually abnormal in form. This anomaly is doubtless congenital. Tbe moveable kidney lacks its usual attachment to tbe abdominal wall, or is suspended by a sort of mesentery formed by its peritoneal covering. Tbe vessels and ureter are usually normal. It occurs more frequently in women than in men, and more often on tbe right side than the left. Hypertrophy and Atrophy.—Hypertrophy of one kidney is always observed when tbe other is destroyed or its function interfered6G9 HYPEMMIA OF THE KIDNEY. Fro. 151. ■with. No simultaneous hypertrophy of both kidneys, without disease, has been observed. Atrophy is the ultimate consequence of several diseases, which will be spoken of hereafter, but also occurs in the course of senile decay, more constantly than atrophy of almost any other organ except the spleen. This condition appears to be always connected with thickening and obstruction of the arteries. This senile atrophy of the kidney is extremely difficult to distinguish from granular atrophy dependent on disease. Hyperasmia.—This condition of the kidney is of frequent occur- rence, but is almost always the result of some prior general affection, as of obstructive dis- ease of the heart, or the arrest of the cutaneous transpiration. We shall describe an extreme case, to convey an idea of the state of congestion that may often be inferred on good ground to exist, and shall hereafter refer to it as the commencement of other affections. The kidney is enlarged, its weight often doubled; it is of dark red colour, and drips with blood when cut into. The cortical substance, the medullary cones, the mucous lining of the calyces and pelvis, are all much congested. The former is somewhat softened, of a dark-red colour, and presents in many cases small dark-red spots, which are the result of haemor- rhage into and between the tubes. The Malpighian tufts are also distinctly seen as minute, reddish, sub-transparent grains, prominent on the cut surface. In the medullary cones, the congested vessels form long dark-red streaks. A somewhat turbid sanguineous fluid is contained in the injected calyces and pelvis. The capsule, if the hyperaemia has befallen a healthy kidney, can be peeled off readily. Micro- scopy shows the Malpighian and other capillaries loaded with blood, extravasation sometimes into the capsule of the former, and often into the channel of the tubes. In a typical case no other alteration would be visible, but it is scarcely conceivable that the hypersemia should proceed to any great degree without exudation of fibrinous fluid taking place, which is then seen having coagulated in the tubes, forming casts of their interior, and Heemorrhage into Malpig. capsules compressing the tufts. Fin. 152.670 HYPER-ffiMIA OF THE KIDNEY. consisting of a granular or homogeneous material entangling blood globules, and often some detached particles of epithelium. Acute Hypercemia.—A kidney in the state of hypenemia, which we have above described, or somewhat approaching to it, with fibrinous exudation in the tubes, is considered by I renchs as in the first stage of Bright’s disease; we greatly doubt if this is generally the case, and cannot look upon hyperaunia as a necessary element in the morbid process. Dr. Johnson considers the same condition as the result of acute desquamative nephritis, and believes that Fio. 153. Drawing of red deposit from urine in intense renal hyperemia. complete recovery may not unfrequently take place. In this we quite agree with him, and so, we think, would most observers. He differs, therefore, from Frerichs, in not considering the hyper- eemic condition as constituting the first stage of Bright s disease. The urine produced by kidneys in this state is very characteristic; it is of a rather deep, smoky-red colour, with a copious dark- reddish deposit, consisting of blood corpuscles, renal epithelium, and fibrinous casts entangling more or less of the latter. t-ome- times corpuscles are present which resemble those of pus, ana like them have compound nuclei. The appearance of this deposit wrU be best understood by reference to the accompanying figure, ine hmmatine of the blood globules exudes from them, and gives the neculiar red colour to the urine, which is at the same time scan j and loaded with albumen. For some time after the hffimorrh^e has ceased, casts of the tubes, which become, however, more delicate and pale, traces of renal epithelium, and albume still discoverable in the urine, until recovery is complete.671 HYPEKiEMIA OP THE KIDNEY. We have thus noticed the hypersemic, or acute inflammatory disease of the kidney, because, though not believing it ourselves to belong to the truly degenerative processes, it produces symptoms in some measure similar, and is regarded by one of the best authorities as always taking the initiative in a more or less marked manner. It may of course give rise to a true degenera- tion, and apparently pass into it, but there is not more connection, we believe, between the two, than between an attack of bronchitis or pneumonia and succeeding pulmonary phthisis. A condition of intense hyperasmia is seen in the kidney affection which sometimes accompanies the puerperal state, and appears to cause puerperal convulsions, as is well shown in Plate 6 of Dr. Dickinson’s work.* If this pass into chronic disease, which is doubtful, it appears to produce the contracted granular kidney of Bright’s disease. Varieties of Hyperaemia.—This may, of course, be either partial or general, and, as shown before, either active (arterial), or passive (venous). General hypersemia, proceeding from active congestion, has the typical appearance above described. Partial hypersemia from the same cause is known by chiefly affecting the surface and the cortical substance of the kidney, which are injected and marked with haemorrhagic spots; the more noticeable as this part is normally paler than the pyramidal portion. If the kidney be partially injected after death, the injection will be found to fill the cortical portion first, leaving the pyramids uncoloured. Partial hypersemia from venous congestion will first affect the pyramids, and these parts will be even more than normally darker than the cortex. Such a condition is seen when the kidneys have suffered venous congestion from some cause which has operated not long before death. The colour is, as usually the case with venous congestion, darker and more purple than that of active or arterial congestion. Chronic congestion is the result of passive, not active, conges- tion, and this is most frequently produced by valvular disease of the heart, or obstructions in the pulmonary circulation. In an early stage, when the obstruction has existed not many months, the kidney is found enlarged, the substance hard, dense, and rigid; the colour darkened or purplish, and not due only to fulness of the capillaries but to staining of the tissue, since washing does not remove it. The capsule is easily removed, and the surface smooth. Microscopic examination shows little that is characteristic except general vascular fulness, and apparently some thickening of the walls of the tubes and the fibrous tissue generally, but no inter- stitial production of new tissue. The epithelium of the tubes may be quite natural. In other cases the chronic congestion is com- bined with degeneration, and the kidney substance appears mottled or pale when the blood is washed away. If the causes continue to operate the degeneration passes into atrophy, and the whole gland # On the “ Pathology and Treatment of Albuminuria.” London, 1868.HEMATURIA. 672 diminishes in bulk; the wasting being most obvious in the cortical portion. In tbis stage tbe capsule is thickened or splits into layers on removal; it is unduly adherent in parts, or generally leaves a somewhat rough surface with fine uniform elevations, 01 what is called minutely granular. The colour of the surface and the sub- stance is a uniform dark-red, the consistency hard and tough. The last stage of chronic congestion from heart disease much resembles cirrhotic or granular disease of the kidney, to be here- after described, but is distinguished by the characters already given. In the same way, as was shown before, the liver in a state of chronic congestion may approach in some degree to the condition of cirrhosis. . Hcematuria.—We may here notice somewhat further the circum- stance of renal hemorrhage. It may occur as an endemic, and, to judge from the absence of bad effects, scarcely serious pheno- menon? Certain individuals are subject to attacks of intermittent hematuria. Many of these are probably instances of what is called Hematmuria, the urine being coloured by blood, but not containing red corpuscles. Turpentine and cantharides have not unfrequently caused renal haemorrhage; they act as irritants upon the organ, and produce a state of conges- tion. Malignant fevers, purpura, and scurvy, are not- un- commonly attended with haematuria, and there is good reason to believe that in most cases the blood comes from the kidney. In some of these affections, characterized by a fluid con- u;-hV,n nf flu. blood, the casts of the tubes would probably be howeverTa condition of atrophy of the epithelium, resultinSUPPURATION IN THE KIDNEY. C73 from the obstruction of an arterial branch by atheromatous and fibrinous matter, which would of course produce a local anaemia. In that which is regarded by several as the second stage of renal degeneration, the kidney, though much enlarged, is often remarkably pale. This anaemia, however, is not attended with atrophy, and is itself, probably, in part the result of pressure exercised on the intertubular plexus. Anaemia is the most constant result of obstruction of the small vessels by waxy degeneration. SUPPURATION IN THE KIDNEY. Pus may be formed in the kidney under two conditions, (1) from suppurative nephritis, (2) as pysemic abscess. (1) Suppurative nephritis, analogous to common inflammation of other parts, and like it often passing into suppuration, is not a very common disease; it constitutes what is generally known as renal abscess. It is most frequently seen as the result of the irritation of calculi in the kidney, or of inflammation of the bladder, which has either spread up along the ureters, or directly attacked the kidney. Hence this form of disease has been called Surgical Kidney. Blows on the loins are also mentioned by Drs. Prout and Johnson as causes of nephritis. Whatever be the cause, the general characters of the inflammatory action will not differ materially, provided it is true nephritis that we are dealing with, and that it passes on to the stage of suppuration. Nephritis unattended with the formation of pus, would probably be undis- tmguishable from the condition of hypersemia above described. . A® kidneys are usually enlarged, and in some parts very much injected; m others, the red surface has numerous whitish spots, or patches, appearing through it; these are seen in sections to’be , ends of long stria;, which commence at the base of the medul- lary cones, and extend to the surface of the organ. Between tnem are interposed streaks of congestion. There is often nothing remarkable in the medullary cones. The minute changes attect both the tubes and the interstitial stroma. In a case which the cortical tubes were quite infarcted with their epithelium; in the whitish portions this was especially accumu- j?te7> and altered so that it resembled a mass of nuclear particles; o tubes also were not clearly seen ; they were doubtless so dis- tended and crowded together that their outlines were lost. In some parts the basement membrane of the tubes was gone, and the ntents appeared as a naked strand of nuclei and granular utter, part of which became dispersed between the tubes, and aae the mass quite uniform. This mass of altered renal struc- Tm? .gently on the point of fusing down into fluid pus. wprr. l P?g^an tufts aPPeared healthy. The medullary tubes re also infarcted, some of them veiy much, and wore opaque, as X x ’ iSUPPURATION IN TIIE KIDNEY. 074 4 See a very good figure in “ Trans. Path. Soc.,” vol. xxiv. plate 4, by Dr. Uoodhart. if containing finely-divided oily matter. The urine in these cases is found to contain cylindrical masses of pus cells, which have evidently been formed in the renal tubes; this sign, while it lasts, serves to distinguish suppuration in the kidney from that taking place in the bladder, as in the latter case the pus corpuscles form only shapeless masses. The changes in the interstitial substance are not less marked in many cases, and more specially characteristic of this disease. The tubes are seen widely separated, and the intertubular stroma in- filtrated by collections of leucocytes or pus corpuscles, such as are seen in all inflammations, and the accumulation of which consti- tutes pus.* If the walls of the tubes and fibrous structures are softened and broken down, an abscess results, but this is not always the case ; as the inflammatory process, when it starts from affection of the bladder or urethra, seems to become chronic, or to occur in repeated attacks. The evidence of this after death is the irregular wasting and puckering of the surface, the adhesion of the capsule, and beyond the capsule of the fatty and connective tissue round the gland; which can sometimes hardly be removed (Perinephritis). This special participation of the external enve- lopes is explained by a peculiar fact in the distribution of the morbid process, that even when it starts from the pelvis, the next most prominent seat of the disease is the surface ; the intervening part being marked merely by the whitish striation mentioned above. On the surface are seen yellow elevations composed of foci of incipient suppuration, which have a singular resemblance to pus- tules of the skin. With these is active inflammation (though not suppuration) of the capsule and surrounding tissue. The ongm of the pus cells in nephritis may of course be explained on any of the three hypotheses before mentioned (p. 87), but the probability seems great that here, at least, they are emigrated leucocytes.. The mucous membrane of the calyces and pelvis, especially when a calculus is lodged in these cavities, is softened and in- flamed, and secretes a purulent fluid. The ureter is generally comparatively unaffected, but the bladder or urethra, or both, are inflamed in most of these cases; and the urine is usually m a state of alkaline fermentation. . . This fact, combined with certain appearances m the suppurative kidney, has led ivlobs to suppose that the secondary inflammation of the kidney depends on the ascent of bacteria from the pelvis into the uriniferous tubes and kidney substance ; whence he calls the disease Pyelonephritis, or Parasitic Nephritis. In sections of a kidney in this disease, tubes and stroma, he says, often contain collections of brilliant granules, distinguished from fat by their insolubility in acids, alkalies, or ether. These are the bacteria, an the same are contained in alkaline putrefying urine. He believe that such granules occur, and that they are really bacteria, u how far they are to be regarded as the cause of disease is ye675 BLOCKS IN THE KIDNEY. uncertain. Dr. Dickinson also attributes the inflammation to the absorption of septic matter from the urine (“ Med.-Ohir. Trans.,” yol. lvi. p. 223). The extension of renal abscesses may go on until the whole organ is converted into a mere pouch of pus ; in this case, or even before the organ is quite destroyed, the abscess may make its way by the usual process of absorption, penetrating through surround- ing indurated tissue, and evacuate its contents in either of the following situations:—(1) Externally into the lumbar region; (2) into the cavity of the peritoneum; (3) into the ascending or descending colon, or into the duodenum; (4) into the bronchi after perforation of the diaphragm. Acute inflammation of the kidney may become chronic, or the inflammation may have a chronic character from the outset; its results may be suppuration or induration, and consecutive atrophy of the organ. Suppuration in the tissue surrounding the kidney, or perine- phritis, is generally the consequence of wounds or injuries, or of the extension of inflammation from neighbouring parts. (2) Pycemic abscesses, if they occur in the kidney, are similar to those in other organs, and do not call for any special remark. Two conditions which may be confounded with them must, however, be mentioned:—Infarctions, or fibrinous blocks, and capillary embolisms. Infarctions or Blocks.—These lesions correspond generally to Fig. 154. Blocks in a granular kidney. The situation of the patch is marked by the irregular outline, which was a deep red. ' those of the spleen, and, like them, depend upon the arrest of circulation in a portion of the gland; the cause being obstruction(i7G BLOCKS IN THE KIDNEY. of the arterial branch. This obstruction is generally occasioned by embolism, a fragment of vegetation from a cardiac valve, or some coagulum or atheromatous matter from the heart or aorta. Hence they are especially common in aortic disease accompanied by vegetations on the valves, and in acute endocarditis. Some- times no embolus can be traced, and there appears to have been spontaneous thrombosis in the artery. This is especially likely to occur in fevers, as in typhoid. The blocks in the kidney have a less distinctly conical shape than those in the spleen, the vascular dis- tribution being different, but still this shape is seen in smaller blocks. Eecent infarctions are sometimes dark red, haemorrhagic in appearance, dense, and, if near the surface, somewhat elevated above it, but we do not very often see them in this stage, and possibly some are anaemic from the first. Generally some degene- rative change has set in; then we find a tough yellow mass of “ fibrinous ” appearance, bordered by a very bright belt of scarlet injection (Fig.154), caused by collateral hypersemia. Later on, the necrosis of the central portions continues, and the_ surrounding inflammation results in the production of fibrous tissue. Ulti- mately absorption of the central portion takes place, and nothing but a mass of newly-formed fibrous tissue remains, which, as is usually the case with such tissue, suffers contraction till a puckered cicatrix only is left.* This change explains the irregular form of many kidneys in cases of heart disease. The microscopical examination of blocks in an early stage shows the natural structure of the kidney much engorged, and with Hemor- rhagic and inflammatory products in the tubules, hence this is one cause of renal Hemorrhage. At a later period little structure can be made out in the central portions which chiefly consist of granular amorphous material like degenerated fibrin. In the peripheral portions new growth of nucleated connective tissue^ is observed. Pytemic blocks may sometimes be mistaken for the infarctions just described, but in them, though there may be vascular obstruction, the inflammatory changes ending in sup- puration greatly preponderate. Capillary embolisms are) often regarded as entirely belonging to pycemia, but do not appear necessarily to do so. They occur generally, if not always, in acute endocarditis. We there often find the surface of the kidney covered with ecchymotic spots and with small blocks going a little way into the substance. Similar blocks may be seen in the interior of the kidney. Both parts show a vivid injection round the blocks which are yellowish in the * The actual time occupied in these changes is uncertain, but the following obsMra- t.ion made hv Dr. Herman Weber of a case where embolic blocks existed in both kidneys, gives an approximate date. That in the right, which was diagnosed as havurff occurred thirty-eight days before death, was already shrunk below the lei el of the surrounding tissue, while those in the left kidney, having occurred between a week and a fortnight later, were still slightly prominent above the level of the sunwmning tissue but without the elevated red margin seen in still more recent cases. ( Trans.DEGENERATIONS OP THE KIDNEY. GT7 centre. These appearances depend upon obstruction of capillaries or minute arteries; and in what way the obstruction produces haemorrhage is shown on page 116. Cohnheim objects to the term . capillary embolism, contending that small arteries are always obstructed. This is doubtless, in strictness of speech, true; but the phenomena are certainly different from those of obstruction of larger arterial branches. This process, though not necessarily pyaemia, may be a part of one form of that disease. (See mao '349.) Simple Degenerations of the Kidney,—Three well-marked condi- tions maybe called degeneration:-—-(1) Granular degeneration of' the epithelium, seen in acute febrile diseases, concurrently with a similar affection of the liver; (2) Fatty degeneration of the epithelium; (3) Lardaceous degeneration, affecting chiefly the blood-vessels. Fibroid degeneration or cirrhosis will be described under a dis- tinct head. Granular or Parenchymatous Degeneration.—The kidney is enlaiged, especially the cortical portion, smooth, and generallv pale, though perhaps with some spots of injection or ecchymosis Ihe cortical portion has a peculiar opacity and whitish clayey colour ^but is less opaque than in some cases of Bright’s disease); it is soft, and its appearance has been described as “ coarse- grained. The pyramids appear over-vascular but otherwise natural, so that there is a striking contrast between the two parts, ihe enlargement of the cortical portion depends upon the con- dition known as “cloudy swelling” of the epithelial elements characterized by positive increase in size, and by the great abund- ance of dark granules in their substance. The convoluted tubes will hence appear filled up with opaque masses, but do not necessarily contain any abnormal elements or substance. As the epithelium of the cortical tubes is normally somewhat gianular, and often slightly fatty, some experience is needed to recognize this condition, but in general the dark, opaque appear- ance of the tubes is sufficiently distinctive (see Fig. 156). The epithelium of the straight tubes in the pyramids (obtained bv squeezing till a milky drop appears on the papilla) is usuallv quite translucent and clear. No other changes are constantly CiSCIlu. “ This fonn of disease is met with in the same class of diseases as produce the similar condition of the liver (p. 628), and probablv occasions (though how we do not know) the albuminuria so often present m these diseases. It is thought by some pathologists to be the first stage of one of the varieties of Bright’s disease, or even to be in fact a mild or acute form of that disease. The condition must, however, m most cases be transitory; and if chronic disease be established, other features will be added, which alter the patho- logica! type. Phosphorus poisoning has been found to produce a similar degeneration of the renal epithelium. Scarlatina is alsoDEGENEKATIONS OF THE KIDNEY. 678 commonly regarded as producing a typical form of this degenera- tion ; but the type of kidney disease thus produced is not always the same. Fatty Degeneration.—This condition is very common, so much so that it can he hardly called a disease. Dr. Dickinson found out of sixty-eight healthy kidneys twenty-five in which the epithelium con- tained distinct fat globules, while in a still larger number the epithe- lium was granular. The renal epithelium of dogs and cats is also commonly fatty, as was shown by Mr. Simon. When fatty degeneia- tion occurs in a healthy kidney, or one not seriously diseased, it o-iyes a yellow colour to the cortex which is chiefly seen m a belt just outside the bases of the pyramids, where they form a transition to cortical substance. If more advanced, the change may extend over the whole of the cortical portion, but the epithelium of the straight tubes is seldom or never fatty. It is doubtful how far tatty degeneration, taken alone, can be said to constitute a disease of the kidneys. . „ , , . . , , In extreme cases the fatty change is found to involve not only the epithelium, but the stroma, the capillary blood-vessels, and the Malpighian tufts. The extreme cases of uncomplicated fatty kidney are met with chiefly accompanying pulmonary phthisis, but are not to be con- founded with those in which there is lardaceous disease also. Tatty degeneration is, however, an accompaniment of several important morbid processes, and is itself the outcome of the granular degene- ration just described. ... Lardaceous Degeneration.—This disease as it affects the kidney pre- sents certain peculiarities important to notice. It occurs in two tolerably distinct forms. In the first, which is by far the commoner, the kidney is much enlarged, smooth, pale, anaemic, the surface and cortical portion mot- tled with translucent and opaque yellowish patches, the substance firm and elastic. The addition of iodine produces both a general yellow colour and an orange or brown tint in small specks scattered through the cortex, which are in fact enlarged and degenerated Malpighian glomeruli, while the smaller arteries are sometimes stained in the same way. In the second form disease the kidney is smaller than the normal, its substance is Fig. 155. Malpighian tufts, and a small artery of tlie kidney affected with lardaceous degeneration. (After Kindfleisch.)679 MORBUS BRIGHTII. very generally translucent, as if soaked in wax, and of a yellowish colour, while the cortex is diminished. Iodine produces the most marked change in the pyramids, which, especially the papillae, are stained of a dark brown. The same colour is seen on the surface of the pelvis, and sometimes even in the ureters and the mucous membrane of the bladder. The first form shows the manner in which the disease first attacks the kidney, through the small arte- ries and glomeruli; while it is only in cases of long standing that we find the pyramids so much affected as in the second form. The peculiar distribution of the infiltration in the latter suggests a transference of material from the cortex to the papilla:1. It is only seen in cases of very advanced disease, and the ordinary appear- ance of the disease is that first described. Microscopical examination shows in the glomeruli and small arteries the changes represented in Fig. 155, where it will be noticed that the injection has filled a part only of the glomerulus, an evidence of the most important fact in this morbid condition that it limits the supply of blood to the organ. This sufficiently explains the ansemic condition of a waxy kidney. No similar de- generation is usually seen in the renal epithelium, except in very advanced cases, when the epithelium of the straight tubes and the contents of the tubes—i.e., hyaline matter and altered epithelium, sometimes undergo such a change as to be stained by iodine. But there are nearly always other changes associated with the larda- ceous degeneration of the vascular parts—viz., changes in the tubes identical with those in one form of Bright’s disease, tubular nephritis, and changes in the interstitial stroma, which are cha- racteristic of those seen in the other or cirrhotic form of that disease. The discussion of these mixed types of disease must be deferred. The causes of waxy degeneration have already been discussed ; there is generally nothing to explain why it should specially affect the kidney. MORBUS BRIGHTII. Degenerative Disease of the Kidney; Desquamative and Non- desquamative Nephritis; Subacute Inflammation of the Kidney. These names refer to an extremely common and important disease or diseases of the kidney, whose main features were discovered by Dr. Bright, but whose real nature is still a matter of doubt. In calling it a degenerative disease, we have expressed our own opinion respecting it, which coincides very closely with that held by the late Dr. Prout. Dr. Bright (according to Dr. Wilks) dis- tinguished two forms of disease with two corresponding conditions of the kidney, and these in their broad features represent the two types of disease which we shall describe. The first is a com- paratively acute disease, with a marked beginning, and definite symptoms of which dropsy is always one; the other, a chronic butMORBUS BRIGimi. 680 exceedingly insidious disease, often not discovered till shortly before and sometimes not till after death ; generally, therefore, without having given rise to the symptoms of the more acute disease, and sometimes quite unaccompanied by dropsy. The kidneys, in cases of the former disease, are usually found enlarged, especially the cortex, pale, smooth, without any abnormal adhesion of the capsule; it has hence been called the large, smooth kidney. In the second form of disease, the kidney is usually found small, wasted, especi- ally in its cortical portion, the surface rough, granular, the cap- sule adherent; this has hence been called the contracting granular kidney. Passing from the naked-eye appearance to the minute anatomy, we find that in the majority of cases the large smooth kidney shows changes in the tubes and their epithelium, partly hyper- plastic and partly degenerative (i.e., fatty), without any alteration of the interstitial stroma, and has hence been called tubular nephritis or fatty degeneration. In most cases, also, the small granular kidney presents, with a variable amount of morbid change in the tubes (sometimes hardly any that is well marked), alterations in the interstitial stroma and in the arteries of an hypertrophic kind. It has hence been called interstitial nephritis or cirrhosis of the kidney. In this summary we leave out of account two forms of kidney disease, which have been separately treated, but which were probably included by Bright under the above two heads, viz., the lardaceous degeneration, formerly unavoidably confounded with the other large, pale, smooth kidneys, and the form of kidney disease dependent upon cardiac obstruction, which constitutes one form of contracted granular kidney. Besides these, there _ are, however, certain important exceptions, which must be mentioned. In the first place, some examples of “large smooth kidney” show, on microscopical examination, not so much changes in the tubes as pronounced interstitial growth, or the alteration regarded as characteristic of the second form. These cases may, perhaps, be compared to those of large, smooth cirrhosis of the liver formerly described. In the second place, some small kidneys with granular surface show simple wasting, without interstitial growth, and may be regarded perhaps as examples of the same form of disease as usually gives rise to the large, smooth kidney, but in an advanced stage of degeneration. These two forms are, however, comparatively rare; there are also mixed or intermediate forms. Parenchymatous or Tubular Nephritis; sometimes called Fatty Degeneration.—In this form of renal disease, the kidney is consider- ably enlarged, even more, sometimes, than in acute hyperminia; both kidneys have been found weighing twenty-three or even thirty ounces ; it is generally pale, sometimes of an opaque greyish- white, with mottling spots or streaks of red; its capsule peels off readily; the surface is smooth, and tolerably uniform, or presents opaque spots, while, rarely, granulations may be justMOBBUS BRIGHT!!. 681 beginning to become prominent. The surface of a section shows the thickness of the cortical substance much increased, and the medullary cones also somewhat enlarged, and markedly striated, §o as to resemble a plume of feathers; they are usually more con- gested than the cortex. The renal tissue in the latter part appears Fig. 156. 2, Cortical tube, infareted with epithelium, and bulged in a good part of its extent. 3, Cortical tube, containing a dumb-bell crystal of large size. 4, Cortical tube, infareted by epithelium, at (a) below it; some of the separate par- tides are shown more highly magnified. Jh Bulky epithelium from cortical tube, the group at (a) are remarkably enlarged those below them are more or less fatty. * G, Medullary tube much infareted, the contents are seen escaping from the upper to be obscured or confused, as if some coagulating fluid had been effused throughout it; it is commonly marked also by indications of commencing granulations similar to those which are seen on theMORBUS BRiai!TII. t'C'2 capsular surface. The mucous membrane of the ealy< < s and pelvis is somewhat swollen and reddened. The consistence of the kidney is rather diminislied.it is rather flabby and soft. The above description applies to many instances of an early degenerative condition, 1 ut there are many others also, in an early stage, which differ in Fro. 1ST. \. Cortical tubes, containing a wry fatty epithelium. b. A short homogeneous oast, containing two corpuscles. c. Fortion of a mtxiullaiy tube, containing three oasts, looking much like cysts anJ oOy matter. The three figures (156 to tSSt are intended to illustrate the changes observed iu the enlarged form of degenaried kidney. several respects. The size of the organ may not be materially increased, though its structure is evidently altered : its consistence may be dense, firm, and brittle, instead of soft and flabby; it# capsule may be firmly adherent, and its colour more approaching the natural.’ Cysts are sometimes observable ou the surface of the orsran. but this is uo necessary part of the morbid change. Histology of Tubular Xrphntis.—The epithelium lining the cor- tical tubuii is increased in bulk; sometimes its particles are more completely formed than usual, and appear more distinct and separate; sometimes their sine is greatly exaggerated, so that a few particles cohering together form a large bulky mass: some- times the tube is filled with a mflangt of stunted or withered-look- ing nuclei, granular matter, and ill-formed colloid particles. The central channel of the tube, which should, normally, be about one- third or one-fourth the whole diameter, is much encroached on and even obstructed by this accumulation of epithelium; from the same cause the tube becomes dilated, and hence the bulk of the organ is increased. Cylinders of fibrine, or hyaline matter, also are present in some of the tubes, but not in the great majority, and doubtless aid in increasing the obstruction. The base- ment membrane of the tube, "in some eases, is natural, in some, is decidedly atrophied, and scarcely can bo detected. A condition of the epithelium is sometimes observed which is extremely significant, wo think, of the nature of the morbid pro-MORBUS BRIGHTII. 683 cess; it is noticed by Dr. Jobnson as peculiar to that form of disease which he denominates non-desquamative nephritis. The epithelium in this does not accumulate and block up the tubes, but appears as a coarsely granular opaque stratum, of the natural width, resting on the basement membrane. Fig. 15S. a, Tube containing an homogeneous cast, which projects from its broken end. b, Malpighian body, the capsule is filled with oily matter. Besides the swollen and opaque epithelium, cells are sometimes seen which are regarded as indicating proliferation of this structure and have led to this process being described as a “ renal catarrh : ” that is to say, detached, spheroidal masses like epithelium, lying in the middle of the tubes. Where there is no epithelium on the wall of the tube they appear to have been formed out of it, though not of necessity indicating actual cell-proliferation. But more generally the adventitious cells are simple exudation- or pus- corpuscles. The Malpighian tufts are more opaque than natural, the capillaries being obscured by some material contained in the capsule which is probably exudative, but which some pathologists derive from the very delicate epithelium lining the capsule. In some cases this is so abundant, and so mixed with oily matter, that the capsule becomes notably dilated; in others, the pressure of the refluent fluid from the obstructed tube compresses the tuft into a small space at the bottom of the capsule. Oily matter, in the form of minute dark molecules, and various sized drops, is often present in the epithelium in small, sometimes in considerable quantity; when very abundant, it imparts to the kidney a dead milky or yellowish-white aspect. In such cases the epithelial particles often become so filled with oily molecules as to resemble very closely granule cells. In many cases, however, there is no trace684 MORBUS BRIGHTII. of it, and it is certain that it is not of the essence of the disease. In the more advanced instances of degeneration, before, however, atrophy of the kidney has become decidedly apparent, the cortical tubuli exhibit unequivocal traces of breaking up. Their basement membrane is lost; their epithelium, though still preserving the tubular form, is tending to become a mere detritus, and the com- mencing appearance of granulations shows that atrophy is taking place in some parts, while others remain prominent and distended by their included cell growth. Microscopic cysts are sometimes imbedded in the cortical tissue, and may tend, m some measure, to increase the size of the kidney, but they are not so numerous as in the more atrophied condition. The medullary tubuli are less affected than the cortical; those near the base of the cones, espe- cially, often are filled by accumulated epithelium, while those nearer the inammilke are more free, and contain, either some oily matter, or fibrinous casts, or yellow corpuscles, the result of haemorrhagic effusion. The matrix tissue is little altered in itself, but is in some cases infiltrated here and there with a granulous exudation matter containing a few nuclear corpuscles; these are sometimes elongated and developing fibres. These are the excep- tional cases, to which we have already referred. Morbid Contents of the Tubes.—The uriniferous tubes in this, as in some other morbid conditions of the kidney, contain, beside the altered epithelium, two kinds of products, which deserve special attention, viz., the hyaline or so-called fibrinous cylinders or casts and newly-formed cells or corpuscles. The composition of the former is not positively known ; no fibrillation is usually per- ceptible in them, though it is said that in rare cases some approach to it has been observed, and they seem to have been called fibrinous chiefly because they were regarded as the result of exudation. This view has given rise to the name croupous ne- phritis, applied to one form of kidney disease by some German pathologists, from its supposed analogy with croup of mucous surfaces and “ croupous pneumonia.” Rokitansky, on the other hand, regards all hyaline cysts, as formed by the metamorphosis of the renal epithelium by a sort of colloid degeneration; and when the cast and epithelium are found in the same tube (as in Rig. 158), supposes the cast to be the result of metamorphosis of epithelium higher up the tube. This appearance is, however, too general to be entirely explained in this way, and it must be taken as proved, that the hyaline material is in most cases something beside epithelium. Rindfleisch describes this substance in question as a product of the epithelium, especially of the straight tubes. The epithelial cells, he supposes, produce colloid masses in their sub- stance ; and these at length become fused into a cylindrical mass, filling up the tube. It is not easy to trace this process; but it must be admitted that occasionally a substance not unlike in appearance the material of the hyaline casts is seen in drops or small masses within the tubes. This may sometimes be seen inMORBUS BRIGHT!!. 685 fine sections, or in the drop of liquid which is obtained from the straight tubes, by squeezing the papilla. The drops are known from oil drops by the want of retractive power, and hence by not appearing dark or light as the focus is altered; and from any modification of cell forms by their perfect uniformity and fineness of outline. They do not appear to pass into the mine, and are perhaps partly a post-mortem production. Other authors, as Klebs, believe in two methods of formation. Some casts they believe to be formed by a process resembling secretion from the epithelium; others, as Rokitansky supposes, by metamorphosis of the epithelium. The latter, according to Klebs, are distinguished by their larger size (as they occupy the whole of a tube), and irregular or varicose outline. They do not, he thinks, usually pass into the mine. It must be admitted that the evidence for any one of these modes of origin of the casts, as for their fibrinous nature, falls short of actual demonstration. Undoubted fibrinous solidifying exudation is sometimes seen within the capsule of the Malpighian tuft. Origin of New Cells.—Very divergent views have been held with respect to the origin of the cells seen within uriniferous tubes. Those which occur in most conditions of inflammation or degene- ration, especially in chronic tubular nephritis, are indifferent cor- Fio. 159. °f a showing a Malpighian tuft surrounded by lymphoid corpuscles u scf.na,>f/;r0bftblyt0yr,d their way through the capillary wall. Sirnilar cor^des T^l^;,u* )«,rr2'JIldlU tubes with unaltered epithelium in its natural position the right of the figure is one tube with a homogeneous hyaline cylinder cut across. puscles or leucocytes, like those of ordinary inflammations and taken singly, are indistinguishable from pus cells. Thev have ’been regarded as derived from the renal epithelium by proliferation and hence called catarrhal cells ; or, as formed in a similar manner from connective tissue corpuscles; or finally, as white corpuscles emigrated ^rom the blood-vessels. In favour of the former hypo686 MORBUS BRIGIJTII. thesis may he urged the fact that tubes are sometimes found filled with corpuscles, and without any epithelium, as if the latter had become changed into the former; tho existence of what are regarded as transitional forms, and finally the alleged analogy of catarrh on mucous surfaces. But since Cohnheim’s observations on the emigration of blood corpuscles, the latter origin has become much the most probable, and is particularly supported by such appearances as those in Big. 159, where we see exudation cor- puscles surrounding the Malpighian glomerulus, and further, filling all the surrounding tubes, the epithelium of which is intact. In this case it is clear that the corpuscles lie precisely in the track of matters exuded from the vessels. It is possible that here, as in other cases of inflammation, new cells may he produced from more than one source. Urine of Parenchymatous or Tubular Nephritis.—The unne pro- duced by kidneys in the foregoing condition is almost invariably diminished in quantity, generally paler than natural, of some- what altered smell, and deposits a whitish sediment, consisting of fibrinous casts, renal epithelium, and vesical scaly particles. Its specific gravity, which in the earlier stages may be above, tends to fall more and more below, the standard of health. "When oil drops appear in the epithelium or in the casts, it is, of course, a sign that oil is deposited in the kidney, but it is by no means certain that this particular change is of any moment. Albumen is constantly present, except in a few rare cases, where it disap- pears for a short time; its quantity varies considerably, being, apparently, much, more influenced by other circumstances than by the period of the disease, but always more than in the other form of the disease. . _., Granular Atrophy of the Kidney; Cirrhosis of the Kidney ; Chrome Interstitial Nephritis.—'The next condition of the kidney which we shall describe is often regarded as a further stage of the preceding; this is, we believe, sometimes the case,, hut not by any means necessarily or universally. The organ is greatly atrophied, and evidently contracted; its surface is covered with lriegulai Pro" minences, the so-called granulations. Its consistence is consider- ably increased, so that the structure has, as Frenchs says, a kind of leathery toughness ; this is more marked m proportion to the atrophy. The colour is decidedly less pale than m the former variety, but has generally the following peculiarities. Bale yellowish granulations covering the surface are separated by tissue which is somewhat more vascular and less yellow. The granula- tions correspond to the natural divisions of groups of tubules which may be traced dimly in the healthy organism. Sometimes the colour is much more uniformly red, but this colour depeu s rather upon passive hyperaemia than on the actual colour oi t e tissue, and is more often seen in cases of wasting dependent upon venous congestion than in the true “granular kidney. “ section the colour is usually pale yellowish and mottled, but tneMORBUS BRIGHTII. 687 Drawing of atrophied kidney. pyramids somewhat more vascular. This condition presents, especi- ally externally, an unmistakable analogy with cirrhosis of the liver; the granulations corresponding to the yellow projecting masses of degenerated tissue. At the same time the intervening Fig. is\ tissue in the kidney is less vascular; as might be ex- pected, considering the double system of afferent vessels in the liver. Hence this has been called the cirrhotic form of kidney disease. The cap- sule is always very adherent, but it is worth noticing that, sometimes, when it is thick- ened, a layer of it may be peeled off, leaving behind an apparently smooth surface. The cortical part is most affected by the atrophy, being reduced, in extreme cases, to a layer two or three lines in thickness; the medullary cones suffer in a less degree. The external form is often remarkably lobulated, reminding one of that oi the foetal kidney. Microscopic Appearances.— The renal tissue is found in this form of kidney to have perished extensively, and this generally in pro- portion to the shrinking of their size. In extreme cases, one may scarce find m a section anything of the secreting structure except mere granular debris, some of these, perhaps, still preserving the contour of the original tube, but the greater part constituting an indefinite shapeless mass. In other, less advanced, cases, and in some parts, indeed, of all, the tubes are still discernible : they are irregularly distended, and opaque with granular contents, which have well-mgh, or perhaps completely, blocked up their canals Uiiy molecules, sometimes accumulated in considerable quantity he here and there amid the granular matter, and increase the opacity greatly. The granulations are made up of the infarcted convolutions of tubes, and are the parts in which most traces of the natural structure still persist; they remain prominent, because the intervening parts have perished and shrunk in. The atrophied tubes and Malpighian bodies will then be found separated by what is the most important structure in the cirrhotic kidney, a nucleated or small-celled tissue, which m some parts shows definite fibrous organization. This is evidently a species of newly-formed con- En5 £s?ue>.antl> aa «uch- possesses the power of contraction usually belonging to such tissue. It is to its shrinking that the irregularities of the outline in the granular kidney are due. TheMORBUS IiRIGimi. 688 changes are, in general, similar those seen in other organs, as a consequence of “ fibroid degeneration ” or fibroid substitution; and it is probable that the small-celled infiltration and atrophy go hand in hand, rather than that there is first a stage of cellular infiltration followed by a stage of atrophy, as the more recent German writers describe. This nuclear tissue is found very unevenly distributed through the kidney; chiefly in the cortex, and often passing in from the periphery, as Dr. Dickinson has especially shown. We may often, also, trace a close connection with the outer coat of the arteries (Fig. 162), a point to which Sir W. Gull and Dr. Sutton attach much importance. It is also especially abundant round the capsules of the Malpighian tufts, and this more particularly in what appear to be early stages of the disease.* We have observed sometimes a single tube with its homogeneous membrane denuded by separation of the epithelium, as noticed by Dr. Johnson, but in sections Fig. 161. the appearance of an empty tube is liable to some fallacy, since the epithelial contents may have fallen out in the process of preparation. We have also seen what we think has not yet been described, a kind of thickening, or hyper- trophy of this membrane, which has seemed to us to result from the atrophy of the epithelium, and its fusion into an homogeneous layer on the inner surface of the tube. The walls of the tubes and the stroma generally are often uniformly thickened. TheMal- pighian tufts, in consequence of the general collapse., appear closer together ; a few of them remain tolerably healthy, others are compressed and shrunken; often the capsule is filled, to a greater or less extent, with an oily-looking matter, or the capillaries are obscured by fibrinous exudation. A very important and signifi- cant alteration has been observed in the condition of the small arteries by Dr. Johnson; he finds their coats considerably thickened (Fig. 162), both the inner of longitudinal and the outer of circular fibres, and he regards this thickening as an instance of true hyper- trophy induced by the increased pressure exerted upon then parietes by the retardation of the circulation through the lntei - • Traube distinguishes two forms of granular kidney ; that in which "'e eelled inliltration is especially abundant round the Malpighian capsules, and tba which it occurs round the intertubular capillaries. Cortical part of a very granular kidney, containing very numerous microscopic cysts. The tubes are very much degenerated and broken up. Two Malp. bodies are shown.MOEBXJS BRIGHTII. GS9 tubular vonous plexus. There is also often general thickening of all the coats, rigidity, atheroma, and calcareous degeneration of the arterial wall, with diminution of its calibre, as has been well figured by Dr. Lionel Beale. No particular change is observable in the before-mentioned capillaries, or in the veins, except that the latter often contain firm coagula of blood, which are more or less closely adherent to their walls, so as sometimes to constitute actual thrombosis. Fig. 162. ‘n ®dva,nc,ea granular degeneration; showing nucleated fibrous tissue diffused between the tubes, the contents of which have been removed by wash- ing, except in one instance when the epithelium is seen unchanged, but the cavity L°^nshoZe COrpuscle3' A smaU arterial branch with hypertrophied muscular coat (From an original preparation.) Large Form of Interstitial Nephritis.—In some cases the anatomi- cal changes just described are met with in kidneys which are lar^e smooth, and pale, in which the cortex is enlarged, and the capsule easily removed, and which are, in short, not to be distinguished by the naked eye from kidneys affected with parenchymatous nephritis. These constitute, accordingly, a certain proportion of the “large, smooth kidneys” of Bright. The secreting structure is m such cases often little altered ; a fact which has led some waters to regard this as the necessary first stage of the contracted granular kidney. There is, however, no proof that all contracted Kidneys have passed through this stage, and we may again refer to the parallel of liver diseases; comparing this form of kidney to om?\rgeV Sm°oth form of cirrhosis (smooth interstitial Hepatitis P- Wd). In persons who die of kidney disease this form is cer- tamly rare. Y YCYSTS IN TIIE KIDNEY. 090 Gouty Deposits in the Kidney.—In contracted granular kidneys it is not uncommon to find, chiefly in the pyramids, white lines and specks of mineral matter which, on microscopical examination, are found to consist of masses of urate of soda, like those of ordinary gouty deposits. These masses are imbedded in the thickened fibroid matrix, not contained in the tubes; though under certain circumstances masses of urates may be found in the latter situation. The deposit is sometimes granular, but more often in Fro. 163. Tufts of aeicular crystals, composed of urate of soda from the matrix of a granular kidney. the form of stellate bunches of aeicular crystals, as shown in Fig. 163. This condition often accompanies general gout; some- times when no symptoms of gout have occurred, similar deposits will be found in the articular cartilages of the great toe. Some- times it is alleged to be the solitary gouty deposit in the body. To make a special form of kidney disease—arthritic nephritis— on these appearances, as has been done by some French and (rerman pathologists, appears to us quite unnecessary; since m London, at least, many of the most pronounced granular kidneys are gout w A certain proportion of the gouty cases are associated with lead poisoning. CYSTS IN THE KIDNEY". We proceed to the consideration of the cystic growth which often takes place so abundantly in diseased kidneys. These formationsCYSTS IN THE KIDNEY. 691 appear as vesicles, of very various size, ranging from microscopic objects of XQootk inch diameter to the magnitude of a cocoa-nut. They contain usually a clear colourless fluid, which is slightly albuminous, and holds in solution the ordinary salts of the serum. Fig. 164. Kenal cysts, and cyst-like casts. nt|ar.’lpF-y^Sfart.otaini°a CeljS', b’ 4>b’ C/sts containing granulous matter and imilei, m 1/ the celloid contents are disposed so as to form an epithelium round a cen- nV,clf* are eloI?gated c, c, Cysts containing granulous and oily matter. d, d,<l, Small transparent vesicles, e, Young cyst diam. inch in the tube. /, A cyst with laminated walls, a, Two doubtful cysts, probably casta, without distinct envelope, consisting of granulous and a little oily1 matter 4b4ousVcitsbrmOUS ^ advanced in fatty Regeneration, c, Pale homogeneous ''Sometimes it is of a dark yellowish colour, and more or less viscid indicating, perhaps, the presence of colloid matter. We found, in one instance, a large quantity of yellowish granular corpuscles tuttused through the fluid, and fragments of an epithelial pave-692 CYSTS IN THE KIDNEY. ment, consisting of closely apposed nuclei. No urinary principles are found in them, at least as a general rule, but oily matter is not unfrequent, and cholesterine is occasionally present. As they extend and attain a largish size, they seem to cause absorption of the cortical rather than of the medullary substance, so that on laying open a cyst, a medullary cone may be seen at the bottom of it, and forming, perhaps, a ridge in its interior. The whole kidney structure sometimes appears to be destroyed, but the organ acquires an immense apparent size. A case is recorded where the two kidneys weighed 3 lbs. lOozs. and 3 lbs. respectively. Origin of Cysts.—Respecting the origin of cysts, opinions are divided ; Drs. Johnson and Rrerichs maintain that they are pro- duced by obstruction of the tubes, and subsequent dilatation from secretion taking place within them. Mr. Simon first proposed the idea that they originate as new formations or growths within the tubes, each cyst having its origin in a germ or nucleus particle, such as under healthy conditions might have produced an epithelial cell. Rokitansky and Paget have also adopted this view, and we have ourselves been long convinced of its accuracy. It applies especially to those cases where the cyst formation is extremely abundant, but we are more inclined to believe that the few and rather large cysts which occur in kidneys not seriously diseased, are produced in the former manner. When the tuft in the interior of a Malpighian capsule is compressed and spoiled, we believe that a cyst may be developed from the capsule in the same way as from a portion of a tube. The smaller cysts contain usually either a clear fluid, or granulous, or an admixture of granulous and oily matter. The larger ones sometimes contain an endogenous cell growth. The envelope in all is well marked, formed of a distinct homogeneous membrane ; it occasionally presents concentric laminae. Oval and roundish fibrinous casts, when impacted in the medullary tubes, may simulate very nearly the aspect of cysts, especially when some epithelium is imbedded in them. [To the foregoing account, contained in the first edition of this work, we desire to add the following remarks:— It seems necessary to draw a distinction between the cysts of considerable though variable size, from a pin’s head up to one or two inches in diameter, and those which are quite microscopic and usually found scattered through atrophic kidney substance in immense numbers. In some cases larger cysts are found in kidneys otherwise quite healthy, so as to suggest the idea that they are possibly congenital structures. But in most cases these cysts are associated with contracting granular kidney, and there is great probability in the view which derives them from dilated tubes and Malpighian capsules, the outlet from which is obstructed by fibrous growth. The explanation of the microscopic cysts is more difficult, but according to the views now more generally adopted, they must be regarded as formed either out of portions of tubes shut off during the atrophic process, or out of the contents of the693 SCARLATINAL NEPHRITIS. tubes in similar conditions; that is, either from hyaline casts which have assumed a varicose or beaded character, as represented in Fig. 157, or from the same material originally deposited in that form. Dr. Bristowe,* in an elaborate investigation into these structures, has given reasons for both these views, either of which he considers plausible. He has found the microscopic cysts abun- dant in atrophied kidneys, and comparatively rarely associated with larger cysts. Where the former are abundant, the tubules are always atrophied, and frequently wholly deficient, so that the microscopic cysts and tubes are in inverse proportion to one another. The possible origin of cysts from tubules he explains in the following manner:—When tubules waste, their canals become narrower and narrower, their walls thinner and thinner, till at length they are altogether lost in the surrounding tissue; at the same time they lose their epithelium, and often contain waxy or granular matter. Now, if this obliteration, instead of occurring simultaneously in the whole length, occurred at irregular intervals, producing a moniliform condition of the tubes, and leaving a series of ovoid cavities, there would be cysts, such as those in question ; and further, they would be likely to accumulate within them some of the secretions of the tubes, and thus become distended into globular bodies, which might contain all those varieties of contents which are found in diseased tubules. The other explanation, that cysts are formed from contents of tubes, Dr. Bristowe regards as supported by the following considerations: (1.) The contents of the cysts resemble those of tubes, being sometimes waxy, sometimes faintly granular, sometimes thickly studded with oil globules, sometimes presenting an epithelial lining, and in one instance containing apparently disintegrated blood. (2.) In cases where casts were present, as well as cysts, linear series of casts were observed within the tubules, some elongated, some ovoid, others globular and, as far as could be seen, identical with cysts. Either view accounts for the presence of cysts in atrophied kidneys and the apparent absence of tubes in the cystic portions.—Ed.] Urine in Granular Kidney.—There is nothing very characteristic of the urine passed from small atrophied kidneys; it is generally, however, more abundant, sometimes actually in excess, of lower specific gravity, of paler colour, less albuminous, and deposits a less quantity of epithelial sediment than that from the enlarged organ. Fibrinous casts will rarely be entirely absent, but often few in number; they are usually granular and small. Their quantity, and the presence or absence of blood globules, will depend very much on the degree of congestion. Scarlatinal Nephritis.—The occurrence of renal dropsy after scarlatina is known to be very common, but the precise nature of the renal change is still uncertain. For a long time it has been regarded as the typical form of catarrhal nephritis, or tubal nephritis of Dickinson, and is so described by the majority of • “Trans. Path. 8oc.,” vol. ix. p. 309, pi. x.SCARLATINAL NEPHRITIS. 694 authors. Nevertheless, cases occur in which no affection of the tubes can he discovered. In some of these there has been found to he interstitial nephritis.* In other cases all interstitial change is likewise absent, and the observer may be tempted to think there is no structural alteration. A morbid change is, however, some- times seen, to which the name of glomerulo-nephritu has been given ; that is to say, a special affection of the Malpighian bodies. The earliest observation on this subject we have found is by Dr. Bristowe,t who, in a case of scarlatinal dropsy in a boy aged six- teen, found, with doubtful changes in the tubes, undoubted changes in the Malpighian bodies, in which some exudation had taken place within the capsule, compressing the tuft of vessels. Blebs describes the whole interspace of the capsule as filled with small, somewhat angular nuclei imbedded in a finely granular mass; while on isolating the glomerulus its surface is found covered with similar nuclei. A singular case was reported by I)r. Wilks, some years ago, of renal dropsy without albuminuria, in which the Malpighian bodies alone were affected; and these were in a state of fatty degeneration, which might very well be a later stage of some such condition as is here described (“Path. Trans.” vi. 264). In more than one obscure case of scarlatinal nephritis, where no obvious changes were seen in the tubes or interstitial stroma, we have seen a very large number of nuclei on the glo- meruli, but find it difficult to estimate what should be the normal number4 It is worthy of notice that the peculiar combination of dropsy with absence of albuminuria, which occurred in some of these cases, is not uncommon in scarlatinal dropsy. This must in any case be distinguished from the transitory parenchymatous degeneration seen in scarlatina, as in other febrile diseases. Distinction of the Two Forms of Bright’s Disease.—With regard to the two forms of diseased kidney which we have described, we feel some degree of doubt as to the exact relationship they bear to each other; some regard the atrophied kidney as the more advanced condition of the enlarged one, others consider the two as distinct varieties. We strongly incline to the latter opinion, and to the belief that the enlarged degenerated kidney possesses pathological affinities or analogies with phthisis and the class of scrofulous maladies, while the contracted eminently granular kidney is allied to such changes as those seen in cirrhosis of the liver, and con- traction and thickening of the cardiac valves. Between the two forms, of which we have tried to give a typical description, of course there are very numerous intermediate or mixed ones which the student must expect to find. Combination of different Kidney Diseases.—When the two types of Bright’s disease just described are combined, the usual course * Cayley, “ Trans. Path. Soe.” vol. xxi. p. 259, pi. vi. Fig. 8. + “ Trans. Path. Soc.” vol. viii. p. 285. t Cases hearing on this subject in Beer, “Die Bindesubstanz der Menschliehen Niere,” 1859.695 CAUSES AXD COASEQUEACES OF BRIGHT’S DISEASE. appears to be for the comparatively acute degeneration (parenchy- matous nephritis) to supervene on the more chronic interstitial disease. Lardaceous degeneration is often combined with one of the two diseases just referred to. When combined with parenchy- matous disease, it produces the large white form of waxy kidney, in which some portions are opaque with degeneration. But even in this form, and still more in the smaller forms of waxy kidney, there is always a great deal of interstitial nuclear production, con- stituting a combination with the cirrhotic form of disease. This combination is not easy to explain, since there is certainly no reason to suppose that the lardaceous material becomes organized into fibrous or any other form of tissue, as Dr. Dickinson seems to assume. Causes of Bright's Disease.—It is not d priori probable that the two forms of disease, being, as we believe them to be, distinct, would be produced by the same causes. The first form, parenchy- matous nephritis, is alleged to be produced by exposure to cold, by irritating poisons, and to be the consequence of the acute morbid conditions which arise in exanthematic or other febrile diseases. It is chiefly a disease of early life. The granular kidney, on the other hand, is closely connected with the chronic processes which lead to fibroid degeneration of various organs, to atheroma of the arteries, and to general senile decay. It is frequently seen in gout, and, in Lon- don at least, a certain number of such cases depend upon lead poisoning. Chronic alcoholism has an undoubted tendency to produce kidney disease, and generally it is thought chronic granular degeneration ; but sometimes excessive indulgence sets up an acute morbid process. We do not think that obstructive diseases of the heart have much to do with the production of renal degeneration, at the most they only act as predisponents. The same may be said of preg- nancy, since, though it is, unquestiouably, in some instances, by the reflex irritation it sets up, the efficient cause of renal congestion, and consequent convulsions from uraemia; yet Frerichs acknow- ledges that even among such cases traces of renal degeneration are rarely discoverable. We regard, therefore, albuminuria in preg- nancy and in obstructive heart disease only as an indication that the kidney is the seat of an active or passive hypenomia, which we do not think is often followed by actual degeneration. Further interesting questions connected with the causation of these diseases our space does not permit us to discuss. Conditions associated with Bright's Disease.—The granular con- tracted kidney is often accompanied by changes in other organs, which, though not regarded as its symptoms, are of much im- portance. These are general tension of the arterial system, thickening of the walls of the smaller arteries throughout the body, atheroma of the larger arteries, hypertrophy of the left ven-<)9G CAUSES AND CONSEQUENCES OF HEIGHT'S DISEASE. cases. Vide “ British Medical Journal,” 1861, June and December. tricle of the heart. Cerebral haemorrhage* occurs with a certain frequency, and also a peculiar affection of the retina. Some of these changes, especially cardiac hypertrophy, are met with in a certain number of cases of the other form of Bright’s disease, but only occasionally ; while their absence in the contracted granular kidney is in the highest degree exceptional. Many theories have been framed to explain these morbid conditions, which we can only briefly glance at. Dr. Bright himself noticed the occurrence of hypertrophy of the left side of the heart in cases of granular kidney, and attributed it to the reaction on the heart of obstruction in the systemic circulation; this obstruction being caused as he thought by the fact that blood poisoned, or unhealthy from inac- tivity of the kidneys, must traverse the capillaries with less ease than healthy blood; as well as by an atheromatous condition of the arteries. Dr. Johnson, who first noticed the condition of the smaller arteries, regards it is as pure muscular hypertrophy, which he attributes to a contraction or stop-cock” action, intended to hinder or prevent the access of (poisoned) blood to the tissues. The obstruction thus caused to the circulation leads to cardiac hypertrophy. Traube regards the actual obstruction to the passage of blood through the kidney itself as the cause of general high arterial tension, and this as leading to hypertrophy of the left ventricle, notwithstanding the obvious objection that the obstruction (even were it complete) of the renal circulation must have only an inconsiderable effect on the whole mass of the blood. Sir W. Gull and Dr. Sutton have lately put forward an entirely different view of these relations. The kidney disease they regard not as the cause of the other changes, hut as itself the consequence of a general arterial disease, to which they have given the name of ‘1 Arterio Capillary Fibrosis; ’ the anatomical characters of which we cannot here consider, hut which have led, they think, to the erroneous conception of a true muscular hypertrophy. This change in the vessels, however, causes general obstruction to the arterial circulation, leading in the end to cardiac hypertrophy, and accompanied by arterial tension. The same change in the vessels also gives rise to fibroid change in the viscera, of which the kidney, from its rich vascular supply, is the most conspicuous instance. It is impossible to discuss these views; we can only point Out what we believe to be established facts; that a high degree of arterial tension accompanies most forms of Bright’s disease, but chiefly the chronic; that true arterial muscular hypertrophy does exist, as described by Dr. Johnson, either as the consequence or as the cause of the arterial tension; and that if the former alternative be accepted, the obstruction must he situated in the tissues; whether or not, for the reason given by Bright. Finally, this * Mr. Jones speaks of the relation between disease of the kidneys and cerebral hremorrhage as most intimate, the two lesions concurring in nearly 90 per cent, of hisNEW GROWTHS IN THE KIDNEY. C97 condition of tension, if long continued, produces hypertrophy of the left ventricle of the heart. * While the changes just mentioned do not, as a rule, accompany the parenchymatous, or more acute form of Bright’s disease, perhaps on account of its rapid course, there are certain conse- quences equally associated with either form. These are inflam- mations of the serous membranes and pneumonia. Dropsy in various forms, as oedema, or effusion into the serous cavities, &c., is constant in the parenchymatous disease, but in the granular form always a late symptom, and sometimes quite absent. Uraemic convulsions and coma often come on in both forms of disease in the last stage. Vomiting is more common in contracted granular kidney. The peculiar affection of the retina referred to above, shown by white patches near the entrance of the optic nerve, and often accompanied by spots of haemorrhage, is a common and charac- teristic sign of granular degeneration never seen in the other form of Bright’s disease. NEW GROWTHS IN THE KIDNEY. Tubercle. Two forms are known in which tubercle, or scrofulous disease, occurs in the kidney. The first is in the form of discrete miliary granulations, in cases of general tuberculosis ; the second more special to the kidney, which may be called renal phthisis. !• In acute miliary tuberculosis granulations are found in the kidney in a large proportion of cases. The tubercles in acute cases are hard and grey, not more than one-eighth of an inch in diameter. In more chronic cases they increase in size, and become yellowish and opaque—perhaps becoming confluent into larger masses; though it is doubtful where a complete infiltration of large por- +L°nS the 01»an.arises iu this way. Minute examination shows that the tubercle is formed, in such cases, entirely in the inter- stitial stroma, which becomes infiltrated over a limited area with the small-celled growth. The tubes in the neighbourhood of the tubercle show mostly a granular degeneration of their epithe- lium, and become choked with molecular debris, but there are sometimes hyperplastic and inflammatory changes, shown by the formation of new cells and hyaline cylinders. We have never seen (in several specimens examined) anything that could be called tubercle within the tubes. 2. In the form which we have-called renal phthisis the disease is loLBnS\* ReP°rts of Medical Cases,” 1827. “ Guy’s Hosp. Reports,” vol. i. p 338 1830. Bng-ht and Barlow, Guy’s Hospital Reports,” 2nd series, vol i p 223 1843’ fare, vk'igtiS-NEW GROWTHS IN THE KIDNEY. G98 often confined to the urinary organs. The process always begins in the pelvis and calyces, and is sometimes combined with similar disease of the ureters, or bladder. The kidneys are then found either of the normal size or enlarged; sometimes considerably; the surface is usually smooth, but may occasionally show yellow patches or granulations, from the extension of the tubercular disease. On section, larger or smaller portions of the gland, especially near the calyces, are seen transformed into yellow crumbling caseous matter, with some yellow granulations of the same material. Grey miliary tubercles are rarely seen, if ever. The calyces and usually the pelvis also are found covered with an investment of similar soft, yellow, cheesy material, and are dilated sometimes very considerably, and extend at the sides of the cones nearer to the surface, so that the same appearance is produced as is shown in Pig. 167. Sometimes, according to Forster, there is a contraction of these spaces. The next stage is that of softening; cavities opening into the calyces appear to be formed, as in the lungs, by a combination of inflammation with necrosis, and dis- charge into the urinary passages the so-called “scrofulous pus,” which may sometimes be traced in the urine. The process mean- while extends towards the cortex, till a considerable portion of the organ may be destroyed, and the shape becomes very irregular. Usually both kidneys are affected. The termination of the pro- cess is by some pathologists supposed to be such a kidney as represented in Fig. 166, converted into cysts filled with white putty-like matter; but it appears that may be the consequence of simple pyelitis. With regard to the minute anatomy, Forster states that there is tubercle present, and that it is, as in the miliary7 form, wholly inter- stitial. Without being able precisely to confirm or contradict this statement, we must say that the tubes are always seriously impli- cated, their epithelium granular, and disintegrated ; their- cavities containing pus cells and hyaline cylinders. It must then be left to future research to determine whether the destruction of the organ is ever due solely to a degenerative scrofulous inflammation, or whether tubercles are always present from the first. Lymphatic Tumours.—In cases of leuchsemia, tumours of this kind, are not unfrequently formed in the kidney as in other organs. They form either distinct whitish soft masses, sometimes _ pro- jecting on the surface, or else a diffuse infiltration, producing a mottled appearance. The minute structure is represented in Fig. 165. Masses of lymphoid corpuscles are seen interspersed between the tubes, forming an interstitial infiltration, something like the nucleated tissue in granular contracted kidney, but differing in the slightly larger size of the elements and in the entire immunity of the tubes, which look perfectly normal. These masses are not liable to caseation and softening, like tubercle. In anoemia lymphatica, or cases of adenoid or lymphatic growths without leuchacmia, similar products are seen. Discrete tumours699 NEW GROWTHS IN THE KIDNEY. are figured in the paper by Dr. Murchison, before quoted (“Trans. Path. Soc.” vol. pc. p. 192, plates yii. and viii.). We have more often seen diffuse infiltrations, no importance. The only case of a large fibrous tumour of the kidney which we have found recorded is that communicated by Dr. Wilks to the Pathological Society, of a man, aged fifty-three, in whom the right kidney was converted into a tumour, the size of a child’s head, composed solely of very hard fibrous tissue. (“ Trans. Path. Soc.” vol. xx. p. 224.) Small lipomata sometimes occur in the cortex. Sarcoma only occurs m secondary growths. A dermoid cyst was observed in one case by Sir J. Paget. Syphilitic tumours, in the form of gummata, are occasionally seen, but are rare. As in the liver, they may ultimately produce a mere puckering of the organ, closely resembling that produced by fibrinous blocks. Cancer. We have not exact data for determining the frequency of renal cancer, but it is certainly not rare. Secondary seems to be more frequent than primary cancer. Contrary to the general rule it occurs equally at all ages, and not only in advanced life, especially if primary cancer only be regarded; but if secondary cancer be included, Dr. Walshe’s tables show the period from fifty to seventy to be most liable. Ten cases only occurred in the pre- vious years of life; while nineteen were noted in the succeeding twenty. Scirrhus is rarely, if ever, found ; and the same may be sanl °f conoid. Encephaloid growths, especially in children, attain m the kidney an enormous size. A case has been mentioned to us by Dr. f. K. Chambers, in which the weight of the tumour was three-fourths that of the whole bodv. The stnlomonf v,r v>„ which present microscopical appearances precisely resem- bling those in Pig. 165. Sometimes the capillaries are seen infarcted with white corpuscles, which per- haps accounts for part of the infiltration of the stroma. o Fig. 165. Fibroma.—Small fibrous tumours, an eighth of an inch in diameter or more, are not unfrequently seen in the pyramidal portion. They are composed of firm fibrous tissue, and some- times contain remains of secreting structure, but have Section of kidney affected with a lymphatic tumour or lymphatic infiltration. The tubes are seen widely separated by a mass chiefly composed of lymphoid corpuscles. The epithe- lium of the tubes is unaltered.700 NEW GROWTHS IN THE KIDNEY. colon and left kidney, is confirmed by Dr. Walshe. Rokitansky notices that cancer of the kidney often coexists with cancer of the testis on the same side ; the renal disease, we think, is most com- monly developed after that of the testis. “ In thirty-five cases of renal cancer, the disease,” Dr. Walshe says, “ affected both organs sixteen times, the right alone thirteen times, the left alone six.” The urine excreted by cancerous kidneys may long retain its natural characters. When, however, the growth softens and breaks down, blood, puriform matter, or cancerous detritus, may appear in the urine. Primary cancer in the kidney is usually an infiltrating growth, so that the form of the organ is often preserved. It may begin in the cortex, and gradually involve all but the pyramids ; or, on the other hand, begin at the papillae, within the pelvis, which it dilates, and increases till it is covered only by a shell of kidney substance, sometimes distinctly separable. In such cases it may grow down into the pelvis and ureter. It gives rise, rather fre- quently, to cancerous thrombosis of the renal vein, and the can- cerous thrombus may extend into the vena cava, whence meta- stasis to the lungs easily results. Infection of the lymphatic glands and neighbouring organs may of course occur, but does not hap- pen so often. Secondary cancer occurs usually in several nodules, and commonly in both kidneys at once. With regard to the histology of primary renal cancer, it appears to be always true cancer, with alveolar structure and epithelioid cells. According to the most recent investigations it is said to start from the epithelium of the tubes, and to be in the first instance a sort of adenoma, or glandular structure.* Entozoa occurring in the kidney are the echinococcus and eysti- cercus. The so-called hydatids from the first of these have, in rare cases, been passed with the urine. The adipose tissue, in which the kidney lies imbedded, may, according to Rokitansky, increase to such a degree as to penetrate by the liilus into the substance of the organ, impede its nutrition, and induce a kind of atrophy. Rokitansky states that, in the highest degree of this change, the kidney presents the appearance of a mere mass of fat, without the slightest traces of renal organ- ization ; the urinary passages at the same time being atrophied and obliterated. But in all such cases it is impossible to say that the atrophy of the kidney was not the primary condition, and led to increase of the surrounding tissue. The capsule of the kidney may be inflamed, in consequence of which fibroid thickening may take place, and more or less of induration, atrophy, and obliteration of the organ. The cortical substance is especially apt to be involved, and the surface is some- times overspread with purulent matter, while the tissue itself becomes sloughy or gangrenous, or is only congested and softened. Congenital Cysts.—The congenital cystic kidney, different from * Klebs, “Path. Anat.,” p. 614. Waldeyer, “Virch. Archiv.,” sli.701 ANOMALOUS CONDITIONS OF THE URINARY PASSAGES. all the forms of cystic disease before mentioned, must be compared with similar conditions of the ovary and testicle. The whole kidney is found converted into a compound cystic structure, which may sometimes attain so large a size, even in the foetus, as seriously to interfere with birth. Less extreme cases will of course survive into infantile or even adult life. The condition may go on increasing after birth. A simultaneous cystic dege- neration of the liver has been observed.* ANOMALOUS CONDITIONS OF THE URINARY PASSAGES. Under these we comprise the ureters, and their upper termi- nations, the pelvis and calyces of the kidney. The ureters may terminate, from congenital defect, in a cul-de-sac, either in the vicinity of the kidney or of the bladder. Sometimes they are double or triple, usually from fissure of the pelvis of the kidney, but they generally unite again before their vesical termination. Dilatation.—It is not uncommon to find them considerably dilated, when the opening into the bladder has been greatly narrowed or obliterated. The calyces expand at the expense of the renal tissue, and extend outwards towards the surface, till at length there remains only a thin layer of the cortical substance compressed against the investing capsule, and the kidney is con - verted into a number of pouches, separated by membranous loculi, which contain the remains of the medullary cones. The surface of the kidney becomes lobulated in a marked manner from the pouches pressing outward between the interlobular septa. The ureters are at the same time distended, sometimes to that extent that they resemble a portion of small intestine ; at tbe same time their walls are somewhat thickened, so that they do not appear to be much thinner than natural; they only attain, however, a con- siderable thickness when there is concurrent inflammation. The ureters become also increased in length, and therefore do not lie straight, but are thrown into coils or flexures. Dilated ureters are usually divided by imperfect septa, resembling valves, and it has been supposed that these are new formations ; but some indi- cation of such a division is often seen in the normal ureter. Their mucous lining does not appear to be so often inflamed or ulcerates as that of the calyces and pelvis. The pouches formed by the dilatations of these are often filled with puriform fluid, or with a mixture of pus and urine, or even with clear serum only. To the latter condition the term hydrops renalis, or hydronephrosis, has been given ; it is also called sacculated kidney. It seems to’take place when the obstruction to the flow of the urine into the bladder is complete, and when in consequence, after extreme distension and atrophy of the renal tissue, the secretion of true urine ceases, and * “ Trans. Path. Soc.,” vol. vii. p. 229.702 ANOMALOUS CONDITIONS OF TIIE UBINABY PASSAGES. is replaced by a mere serous fluid. After a time, such tumours may diminish, and almost disappear, from the absorption of their contents. The ureters in such cases also contract, and become obliterated. This condition is often called cystic dilatation of the Fio. 166. Cystic dilatation of kidney. Fio. 117. Pyelitis. There was a concretion in the ureter, consisting1 of phosphates and animal matter. kidney, and must be clearly distinguished from the cystic condition dependent on actual cysts in its substance. It is not necessarily connected with inflammation, as obstruction from any cause will have the same effect. Very considerable dilatation is sometimes produced by stricture of the urethra. In some cases the ureter isANOMALOUS CONDITIONS 03? THE URINARY PASSAGES. 703 blocked just at its entrance into the bladder, without any sign of inflammation of the tube, perhaps from inflammation of the bladder Injury to the ureter producing stricture, is an occasional cause.’ Congenital hydronephrosis, arising from some disease in foetal life is- sometimes seen ; the dilatation may be sufficient to hinder birth’ as m the congenital cystic condition. ’ Pyelitis. Inflammation of the urinary passages often coexists with, and may be the cause of, the state of dilatation ; while obstruction may, on the other hand, lead to inflammation. It is not unfrequently produced by the irritation of calculi, or results from the extension. of vesical disease, or from metastasis of this, according to Rokitansky. It appears sometimes to arise idio- patlncally, or from the general condition of the body. Stricture of the urethra is a common cause of disease of the mucous membrane of the bladder, as well as of dilatation of the ureters. The ufllammation set up there is very prone to creep backward, and aflect the urinary passages, which are predisposed to it by their ™ UT™ distension, and the prolonged contact of unhealthy ui ne. The mucous membrane is found in various degrees turne- fied injected, or of a saturated red colour, of villous aspect, and ih a mUC0'pUrulent fluid- Perforation of the ureters may take place in consequence of sloughing, the urine infiltratin'* into the adjacent tissues, and producing either extensive sloimli- lnQ, or circumscribed abscesses. The inflamed mucous membrane m many cases, causes phosphates, or a mixture of thSe and Sr et’ t0 ^ dep?fted fr°m the uriue- When atrophy of the kidney takes place, these saline deposits, cemented together bv mucus form a ‘‘yellowish-white, greasy, and chalky pulp 0r putty-hke material, which fills the calyces,” and is enclosed bv the wasted organ as by a cyst. This form of destruction of the dimin’ the PyePtis from which it arises, are often regarded as due to tubercular disease, and then we hear of “ strumous ” or scrofulous pyelitis But it certainly may arise from oichnarv wheT^,a+10L ’’ ai?d Wren the- dlsease is confined to one kidney or en no tubeicular disease is present elsewhere in the bodv it be ob,SSly“C not to h alite ?,S jU°ted: Pn other cases, a renal calculus, of the kind ty A clot of h.°UtiaS the Ph,°SphatlC’ may pe Produced in tSs way. a clot of blood is sometimes thought to be the nucleus SST* CalCUl1 3re rath6r the Cause than result of i^am" Croupous or Diphtheritic Pyelitis.— Rokitansky mentions thn EH f mf rmi,latl0n' Which he distinguishes by he name Kato1V®’ from the above catarrhal form, as a secondary affection n cases of serious blood disease. It is observed in fvnhus +1 PYffimia™^’ m dlph,hent’S’ and acute tuberculosis, and ’also in Pi‘ ™la’ and occasions the formation of unhealthv fi bvinn, the ™sANOMALOUS CONDITIONS OF THE BLADDER. 704 Cysts, containing a glutinous or hard (colloid ?) matter, about the size of millet seeds or peas, are occasionally found developed under the mucous membrane of the urinary passages. Tubercle. —Rokitansky states that this “ is always a symptom of i tubercular disease, that has spread from the male genitals to the j urinary organs.” We think some cases recorded in the “ Tran sac- I tions of the Pathological Society,” and some that we have seen | ourselves, show that this is by no means necessarily the case. It is most frequent in the ureters when the kidneys are involved at i the same time, but we have seen it in them when the kidneys were i healthy. Usually there exists at the same time tuberculosis of some important organ, as of the lungs or the hip joint. The deposit takes place in the submucous tissue, and forms, when its progress is chronic, grey granulations, which become yellow, soften, “and give rise to small circular ulcers.” When the disease is more acute, larger patches of deposit are formed, or “ the mucous membrane becomes infiltrated throughout with the tubercular product of inflammation, which is at once detached as a cheesy, purulent mass.” Cancer but rarely attacks the urinary passages, and hardly ever, except it is elsewhere in process of development. The disease may extend to them from the kidney, from the lumbar glands, or from the bladder, either when it is itself primarily affected, or involved in uterine cancer. Cases of villous tumours, perhaps cancer, and certainly primary, of the pelvis of the kidney, resembling villous disease of the bladder, have been recorded. (“ Path. Trans.,” xxi. 239 and 241.) Parasites.—Strongylus gigas (p. 213) inhabits the pelvis of the kidney, or stretches into the ureter, and causes "wasting of tho j kidney. Distoma hcematobium (p. 214) inhabits the renal vessels, and its eggs are discharged by ulceration into the urinary passages, producing hrematuria and albuminuria. Stricture of the ureters, and hydronephrosis may also result, and even calculus. ANOMAEOUS CONDITIONS OF THE BLADDER. This receptacle is subject to various congenital malformations, o which we shall only mention a few. The first is termed inversion or prolapsus of the bladder, and results from a defect in the kwer part of the abdominal parietes, with corresponding defect of the anterior wall of the genito-urinary canal. There appears m e hypogastrium “ a red, mucous, dilated prominence, the edges ot which join with the common integument; in the male sex it passes downwards, so as to terminate in the fissure of the urethra .in female it is surrounded by two diverging tumours, which represen the labia, and it terminates in the lamina of the general integu- ment which invests the rim a vulvse.” The symphysis pnbis is wanting; a vestige only of the umbilicus is sometimes seen a70 j ANOMALOUS CONDITIONS OF THE BLADDER. upper part of the tumour. The openings of the ureters are seen at the lower and lateral parts of this mucous surface, which is, of course, the posterior wall of the bladder. In a case which we saw recently, the penis was very short, and the canal of the urethra open above in its whole length. In less severe cases the abdo- minal wall only is deficient, the bladder being perfectly closed, and appearing as a red tumour—Ectopia vesica. Slighter degrees of the same defect occur. The second malformation is attended witli fissure of the opposite side of the bladder, and of the adjacent cavities, so that a kind of cloaca is formed, similar to that which exists in the lower animals. In some rare cases the urachus remains pervious, so that when urine is passed it escapes at the umbilicus. In others, again, the bladder has no external opening, the communication with the urethra is not formed. Dilatation of the bladder is no uncommon occurrence, and mav be occasioned either by paralysis of the muscular tunic, or by some obstacle to the outflow of the urine, as stricture of the urethra. We think that the amount of dilatation is greatest when the muscular coat is paralyzed, and that in the other class of cases vthere some obstruction exists, the great hypertrophy of the muscular fibres which is induced prevents the distension becoming so great. Rokitansky, however, seems to consider obstruction as the most powerful cause of dilatation of the bladder. The effect of the stronger contractile coat of the bladder in preventing dilata- tion is shown in some cases recorded in the Transactions of the -Pathological Society, in which it is mentioned that the ureters were much distended, while the bladder was contracted, or not diiated. The bladder may be so dilated as to rise above tie umbilicus considerably, and to contain twenty pints of urine. The ; paralytic dilatation depends, we believe, in some cases, on fatty degeneration of the muscular coat. This dilatation may be congenital, and so extreme as to be an ! obstacle to birth. Diverticula, or partial dilatations of the b adder, are not infrequent. They are always found in cases in winch the muscular tunic is hypertrophied, and seem to be pro- duced by protrusions of the mucous membrane taking place between the fasciculi, which are subsequently pushed outwards more and more by the pressure of the urine. The lateral portions the posterior surface, or the neighbourhood of the fundus are the situations in which diverticula usually form. They have no muscular tunic, except, occasionally, a few scattered fibres, which t rtokitansky suggests may be some evidence of their bein<* con- -gemtal. Calculi get into these pouches sometimes, and become so ■lodged and concealed as to escape detection by the sound. CeafmchVm of the bladder most often is rather apparent than real, and depends on irritation of the mucous lining, with hyper- trophy of the muscular coat. Sometimes it is partial, or max- cause a kind of hour-glass constriction of the cavity. When j ■calculus is present, the walls are sometimes found closely706 ANOMALOUS CONDITIONS OF TOE BLADDER. embracing it; and a case is mentioned by Morgagni, in which the bladder was so closely contracted around a needle, that there was scarce room for anything more in its cavity. Hypertrophy of the muscular coat is observed in cases where that tissue is unusually exercised, and is often of a manifestly beneficial tendency. When the mucous lining is irritated by the contact of unhealthy urine, perhaps in some degree inflamed or ulcerated, the reflected stimulus from the spinal cord becomes more intense, and the contractions of the muscular fibres more energetic. Again, when in consequence of stricture, the difficulty of expelling the urine becomes great, the contractile force is increased to meet it, and this increase is occasioned by the greater exertions which are necessary. It is sometimes accompanied by dilatation, some- times there is no enlargement or even diminution of size. One of the commonest causes is obstruction caused by enlargement of the prostate. The appearance of the inner surface of a bladder whose muscular coat is hypertrophied, is peculiar, and is well compared by Rokitansky to that of the right ventricle of the heart. The muscular fasciculi become unusually prominent, and by their divisions and interlacements produce a kind of irregular network into the meshes of which the mucous membrane dips, and ihrough which it may be forced in sacculi. The technical term for this condition is columnated, or in the French original, “ vessie a colonnes.” Dr. Walsbe has seen polypoid growths from the inner surface of the bladder, consisting of prolongations of the mucous and submucous tissue, in a state of simple hypertrophy. If we except these, and the diverticula before mentioned, it does not appear that there is any true hypertrophy of the mucous lining. Rokitansky has, in rare cases, seen the mucous membrane atrophied, “reduced to a very delicate, shining membrane, resembling the arachnoid,” while the muscular coat almost entirely disappears. The bladder is liable to various displacements. It may form the contents of inguinal, vaginal, and perineal hemise, it may be introverted and forced into the urethra, and even in females i project from the meatus urinarius externally.* When hernia of the bladder occurs, it is either in. part, or, more rarely, completely destitute of peritoneal covering. This depends on the anterior part of the viscus, which has no serous covering, being the first to prolapse; but, as the organ descends, the posterior part which is lined, carries with it the peritoneum, and thus forms a sac, into which intestine or omentum is often protruded. Hypercemia of the bladder of a passive kind occurs when there is some obstruction to the free passage of blood through the pelvic veins and the vena cava; it is, therefore, associated generally with I • In the P.epcrt of (he Pathological Society, 1852-53, there is an instance recorded by Mr. Pilcher, in which about two-thirds of the bladder \*ere extruded from tne abdomen through the inguinal canal, and lodged in the scrotum. The hernial portion was large enough to contain 50 oz. of fluid.INFLAMMATION OF THE BLADDER. 707 a similar condition of the adjacent viscera. It produces increased secretion of mucus, sometimes spots of extravasation, and occa- sionally such dilatations of the veins as have been termed vesical hremoirhoids. These, however, do not appear like the common little tumours of the rectum, but rather as prominent and distended vessels. Inflammation of the bladder is much more often seen in a chronic than in an acute form; this depends partly on the acute stage of the disease, in recent cases having generally subsided before death occurs, partly on the greater frequency of cystitis which is chronic from the commencement. The appearances in acute cystitis are strong vascular injection of the mucous lining, with brownish patches in the vicinity of the neck and fundus; more or less thickening of the membrane, with exudation of fibrine or pus on the surface, or foci of the latter in its substance. The mucous tissue may be ulcerated at several points, softeped, or affected by commencing gangrene. Abscesses may form in the substance of the parietes, and open either into the cavity of the bladder, or upon its external surface. Sometimes the mucous membrane is almost completely destroyed, a few shreds or filaments being the only traces remaining, while the muscular tunic is left as if cleanly 1 dissected. This is probably the result of phagedsenic ulceration. Chronic cystitis may be the condition resulting from one or more attacks of the acute form, or may be produced by the extension of urethral inflammation, or by the irritation of unhealthy urine, or ■ of calculi. Its characters are various degrees of vascular injection, i mingled with dark-reddish, slaty, or bluish-black discoloration,’ : more or less tumefaction of the mucous membrane, with secretion of mucus, or muco-pus, often in considerable quantity. Some- < times, from the irritation excited, the muscular coat becomes ■ hypertrophied and columnated ; but the more ordinary condition i in chronic cystitis, is the thickening and more or less uniform 1 induration of the parietes, which assume an homogeneous, larda- c ceous appearance, doubtless from their infiltration with exudation ' matter. It not unfrequently happens that an acute attack, or exacerbation, supervenes upon a state of chronic inflammation. • The following abridged account of the appearances which then "present themselves is taken from Rokitansky; “The bladder is ' found dilated, and filled with decomposed, intensely alkaline urine imixed up with blood of a brown colour, viscid mucus and pus’ sanies, lymph, and detached portions of mucous tissue, in the ■shape of discoloured flocculi, or larger patches.” The mucous membrane, inerusted by a deposit of amorphous and crystalline phosphates, is sometimes “of a dark-red colour, appears spongy, softened, and pultaceous, is easily detached and bleeds; when chocolate-coloured or greenish, it is found purulent, infiltrated with sa.nious matter, or converted into a friable, flocculent tissue, ■ndiich is traversed by the urinary sediment.” In some cases, the mbmucoui and muscular tunics are exposed, and are in various708 INFLAMMATION OF THE BLADDER. stages of softening, suppuration, and disintegration. As the morbid action advances outwards, the peritoneum at last may become involved, and general inflammation of this membrane may be set up. Ulceration, attended or not with suppuration, some- times extends deeply and gradually, and at last perforates the walls, when extravasation of urine takes place, if not prevented by inflammatory exudation, and adhesion of adjacent parts. The further progress of ulceration sometimes forms a communication with the cavities of the adherent viscera; in this way the walls of the rectum, the colon, and the ileum, have been perforated, and their contents have made their way into the cavity of the bladder. Chronic or subacute inflammation of the bladder is very com- monly an attendant upon paraplegia, and proves the immediate cause of death. The inflammation is set up, we conceive, in the same way as that of the eye is when the fifth pair of nerves has been divided, and results from loss of the nutrient power of the tissues, and consequent stagnation of blood in toneless vessels. At the same time, the urine rendered alkaline by the decomposing influence of the vesical mucus upon the urea, reacts, no doubt, upon the inflamed membrane as a further cause of irritation. The urine is turbid with quantities of muco-pus and detached epi- thelium, contains often albumen, sometimes blood, and always prisms of the triple phosphate. The urine under these ciicum- stances always contains bacteria or vibriones, like those seen in decomposing urine out of the body. It has been thought that these must be introduced into the bladder from without by the process of catheterization, which is often required in such cases. Nevertheless, bacteria have been seen in the urine when it was quite certain no catheter had been used. The coats of the bladder undergo similar changes to those above mentioned, but of a marked asthenic character. The mucous membrane is congested, and thickened and altered by fibrinous exudation, or purulent, or sanious ; it is incrusted by a phosphatic deposit, and in parts may be gangrenous. The muscular coat is also more or less affected, and the submucous tissue. _ _ Croupous or Diphtheritic Cystitis.—Rokitansky describes exudative processes of a croupy kind, as not very unfrequent in the biadder, they occur in the course of exanthematic diseases, in pyaemia and typhus. The exudation does not affect generally a large surface, but is limited “ to round spots or striae.” The mucous membrane beneath the exudation is more or less injected, tumefied, and indurated, or in processes of lower character is softened and con- verted into a pulpy, gelatinous, sanious, or purulent mass, or even becomes gangrenous. . Some false membranes discharged from the bladder have n connection with croupous or diphtheritic processes, but seem to be due to simple exfoliation of the mucous membrane ; which appears to occur from inflammation, or from simple retention of urine, as for instance in the puerperal state. The cast consists of the who eNEW GROWTHS OF THE BLADDER. 709 epithelial covering, incrusted with urinary salts. In women it has been discharged during life, and perfect recovery has ensued. Eokitansky mentions what we have once observed ourselves, an eruption of minute miliary vesicles, containing a clear serositv upon the surface; they accompany, he says, catarrhal inflamma- tion and slight exudative processes, as well as Asiatic cholera. Acute and chronic inflammation of the muscular coat of the bladder are both spoken and written of, but the former appears to take place only as a part of general cystitis, and the latter, if it intend more than hypertrophy of the muscular fasciculi, is only that general infiltration of the parietes, with induration matter, which we have before noticed. Pericystitis, however, seems to be a more distinct affection; it consists in the spontaneous inflammation of the cellular tissue surrounding the bladder, arising either as a primary or a secondary process. It is to be regarded, Eokitansky says, as a localization of pyaemia. Prom its original seat, it is apt to spread to the areolar tissue round the rectum, to the anus, and into the scrotum; it may involve also the coats of the bladder, and cause perforation of them. It is sometimes of a chronic form, and then gives rise to induration rigidity, and callosity of the bladder. Softening of the mucous membrane, not resulting from inflam- mation, was observed by M. Louis only twice out of five hundred autopsies; in these the tissue was converted into a kind of pale mucilage. Eokitansky has seen it only once, in a case of typhus. Tubercle is infrequent in the bladder, and it usually arises by secondary extension from the sexual organs in the male, less frequently by extension from the kidneys. It has never’been observed in the female sex, nor is tubercle formed here in cases of general tuberculosis. It is only met with in the form of separate granulations, which are surrounded by more or less hypereemia according to the rapidity of their production ; these soften and ‘rive rise to circular ulcers of the mucous membrane coverin°* them The cervix and fundus are the parts chiefly affected. Cancer is much more often seen in the bladder as the extension of disease from contiguous parts, than as the primary phenomenon, this at least seems to be the more general opinion ; but Dr. Walshe affinns that primary vesical cancer is far from being so uncommon as is generally supposed, and we are quite inclined to agree with him. Scirrhus is very rare in the vesical parietes. Mr. Coulson has never seen it, nor has Sir B. Brodie, except where it constituted part only of a morbid growth. Eokitansky mentions having seen it extending over large surfaces of the sides of the bladder Lncephaloid forms nodules in the walls of the bladder, which lead on the one hand, to ulceration, on the other hand, to promoting growths on the surface. Adhesion to the neighbouring organs perforation and fistulous openings into the rectum, vagina ileum’ or peritoneum, may result. ’ ’ Villous cancer, or cauliflower-like excrescence, is the form which710 MOllBID CONDITIONS OF HIE UEETIIEA. vesical cancer commonly assumes. This may he of very various consistence, and often very vascular, easily bleeding, and situated especially at the trigone, the neck, the fundus, and the vicinity of the urethral orifices. It is developed in the submucous tissue, but as it grows, the mucous membrane is destroyed, and either an ulcer is produced, or a soft, luxuriant, fungous mass. It produces irritation of the bladder, more or less difficulty in micturition, and, in the latter stages, haemorrhage, which may be considerable, and difficult to arrest. The urine contains mucus, sometimes blood, cancerous detritus, and portions of eneephaloid matter at various times when fragments happen to become detached. Simple papillary outgrowths are also confounded under the same name of cauliflower excrescence, and their distinction from cancer is very difficult. They are composed of simple fibrous tissue, covered with thick layers of vesical epithelium which, from its great variety of form may easily, when it appears in the urine, be confounded with cells of cancer. I hemorrhage and other symp- toms like those of villous cancer occur. It rarely happens that, as in a case reported by Dr. Dickinson, masses of tissue are expelled during life which can be positively recognized as cancer (“ Trans. Path. Soc.,” vol. xx. p. 233). MOBBED CONDITIONS OF THE UBETHBA. Congenital Malformations.—We notice the following malforma- tions :—Fissure on the upper surface (epispadias), or on the lower (hypospadias); the former, when exlending the whole length, occurs as a complication of eversion of the bladder; the latter accom- panies fissures of the scrotum, and occasions a resemblance to the female conformation. The urethra may terminate at various points of its normal course, in the perimeum, the root of the scrotum, or anywhere between this and the glans ; the opening in these unnatural situations is very small, and sometimes is completely closed (atresia urethree). A kind of cloacal formation may also be produced by the urethra terminating in the rectum, or in the female in the vagina. The diameter of the canal may be con- genitally narrowed at the extremity, or at other parts, and dilata- tion of the bladder, or cystic dilatation of the kidneys may result.^ Contraction, however, is much more commonly the result of inflammatory disease, under w’hich head we shall describe it. Dilatation of the urethra is often produced by some obstruction to the flow of urine; it occurs for the most part, in the mem- branous portion, which is expanded into a pouch, sometimes as large as a small orange. The mucous lining of these pouches is usually “ injected and thickened, presenting fungous vegetations, and occasionally < cat id with lymph.” Dilatation may also be caused by a calculus. The urethra is frequently distorted from its normal direction, either by the dragging of a large scrotal herniasINFLAMMATION OF TIIE URETHRA. 711 or hydroceles, or by the pressure of tumours. Enlargement of tho lateral lobes of the prostate pushes it to one side, of the middle lobe divides it iuto two passages. The length of the canal in such cases is increased. Lacerations of the urethra may be produced by mechanical injuries, by the passage of fragments of calculi, or by ulcerative destruction. They often give rise to urinary fistuho. Urethritis; Gonorrhoea.—Inflammation of the urethra of the catarrhal kind is exceedingly common, and constitutes the mis- named gonorrhoea. It commences at the anterior extremity and gradually proceeds backwards, in very severe cases extending even to the bladder. The mucous lining becomes swollen, injected, and covered with mucous or muco-purulent secretion. Its follicles and lacunse are attacked, especially the lacuna magna ; in the chronic state they are enlarged and relaxed, and pour out as well as the general surface a thin mucous, so-called gleety, discharge. During the acute stage, when the inflammation extends deeper to the fibrous structure of the corpus spongiosum, exudation of fibrine sometimes takes place in the venous sinuses, which renders them incapable of distension, and thus occasions during erection a bend- ing of the penis towards the affected part which is termed chordee. Abscess may form also in the same situation from suppuration of the exuded fibrine, or, perhaps, also from severe inflammation of the lacunae. The inflammation may spread along the con- tinuous mucous lining to other adjacent parts, to Oowper’s gland, the prostate, the vesiculae seminaies, and the testicles. This extension of tho morbid action to other parts is commonly attended by a subsidence of it in its original seat, so that it is often ques- tionable whether actual metastasis has not occurred. The gonor- rhoeal discharge passes through the same stages as that from other inflamed mucous surfaces; it is at first a thin mucous fluid, then more tenacious and muco-purulent or purulent, and as the inflam- mation subsides, it becomes again thin and pale. When a chancre coexists with gonorrhoea, “ the discharge has usually a greyish or reddish tint, or sanious aspect.” The mucous follicles in the vicinity of the meatus are liable to be specially affected both in the male and female; Dr. Oldham appears to refer to this condition under the name of follicular inflammation of the vulva, and Eleeberg, as quoted by Dr. Adams, thus speaks of their condition in the male: “The orifices of the lacunse become closed by inflammation, and in the course of two or three days pustules are formed in their places, which break and discharge a yellow pus. The orifices of the large mucous follicles are now seen dilated and surrounded by a swollen dark-red border, and they discharge a muco-purulent fluid into the urothra.” The disease sometimes assumes a chronic form. The contact of unhealthy vaginal secretion is the most common cause of urethritis, and it is important to be aware that this effect may be produced by the fluids of females who are perfectly chaste. The great712 STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. Fio. 169. acidity of the normal vaginal moisture may he a cause in some instances. Stimulating injections, the irritation of calculous frag- ments, the presence of stimulating diuretics in the blood, the matenes morbi of gout, of influenza, and the suppression of cutaneous eruptions, are mentioned as causes of this inflammation. Abrasions and excoriations of the urethral mucous lining are occasionally found when it is inflamed, but ulcerations are "'pro- bably) always the effect of other causes, The syphilitic poison producing urethral chancre, the presence of foreign bodies, calculi, &c., the irritation caused by a stricture in the part behind, soften- ing tubercle, are so many causes of more or less extensive ulcer- ation, It is said by Mr. Adams to occur in rare cases spontaneously'. Stricture of the Urethra.—A. very frequent result of inflammation is stiicture. This consists in a narrowing of the canal from some organic change in the structure of the part itself, or in that of those around. It may affect any part, but is most frequent at the junction of the spongy and the membranous portion. Out of 189'cases ex- amined by Mr. Phillips, the seat of the stricture was in 138 from four to six and a half inches distant from the meatus. Contusions and wounds occasion stricture of urethra, which in severe cases of the latter is extremely intract- able. The simplest form of stricture is when the canal is partially occluded by a fold of membrane passing across it; this may be of such a shape that a crescentic or sometimes an annular opening is left. Several of these strictures may coexist in the same urethra ; as many as eight are said to have been observed by Calot. It is thought that these result from the healing of an ulcer, or the raising up of a fold of the lining membrane. In the more common kind of stricture (which occurs in the spongy portion) the urethra is narrowed in a much greater extent of its course, and sometimes in an extreme degree. Half an inch or an inch is not uncommonly the length of the contracted part, and sometimes the whole extent of the spongy portion is affected. The stricture occupies sometimes one side, at others it completely encircles the canal. It is not difficult to understand the mode of its production, which is very illustrative of the general contractile tendency of exudation matter. Effusion and inflammatory new growth take place during inflammation in the mucous tissue itself, or in the submucous, as well as some- times in the corpus spongiosum; if this be not absorbed, it passes into the state of fibroid or induration matter, and continually tends to shrink up aDd contract into a narrower space. In proportion as this takes place the canal must be contracted. The mucous membrane lining the indurated part is often ulcerated and Strictured urethra.MORBID CONDITION'S OF THE FEMALE URETHRA. 713 destroyed, commonly from the mechanical effect of catheters pushed against it; hut it may also take place spontaneously, and it has happened that the indurated part being destroyed by the extending ulceration, the stricture has thereby been cured. A more common and less favourable result of deep ulcerations is the perforation of the canal and the formation of a fistulous opening. When the obstruction occasioned by a stricture is very great, and it maybe such that the passage will hardly admit a bristle, the urethra behind is dilated, often in- flamed, and sometimes ulcerated, so as to give rise to urinary fistula, or effusion of urine. The bladder and ureters are affected, as we have before described. Of course the hypertrophy of the bladder, by propelling the urine more forcibly against the stricture, must tend to increase the dilatation of the canal behind. The urethra is sometimes obstructed by warty growths, which are situated generally near the meatus, and are remarkably vas- cular; they are developed as the result of gonorrhoea, and poly- pous growth is occasionally found, but is much more rare. Chronic disease of the lacunae sometimes converts them into small indurated tumours, which become imbedded in the corpus spon- giosum ; of this kind, perhaps, is an instance mentioned by Bokitansky, in which numerous cartilaginous protuberances from the size of a millet seed to that of a pea were scattered over the surface as far back as the bulb, not, however, obstructing the passage. It may be well to remind the student that the common expression of “old cartilaginous strictures” intend simply the density and firmness of the induration maiter, and not at all that it contains any true cartilage. Stricture is rare before puberty, but has been found at the age of ten years; it is well to be aware that it may at this age be possibly the result of the habit of mas- turbation. Many surgeons have regarded the excessive use of stimulating injections as as occasional cause of stricture. Croupous, or fibrinous inflammation, in very rare cases occurs primarily on the urethral mucous lining, and chiefly in children. It is probable that it takes place also here as a secondary process in the same diseases in which it is found in the bladder and ureters. Variolous pustules are not unfrequent in the urethra. Tubercle is of rare occurrence in the urethra; it is only present when the entire urinary apparatus is likewise affected. It has been found in the miliary as well as in the more massive form. Cancer affects the urethra, either in the male or female, for the most part as an extension of adjacent disease; but cases are recorded where the growth in this part was either primary or isolated. Morbid Conditions of the Female Urethra.—Displacements of the uterus, especially retroversion, cause compression of the passage as also does the pressure of the child’s head during labour. Such compression not unfrequently produces sloughing? of the parietes and vesico-vaginal fistula. Dilatation of the urethra is in rare • cases congenital; it is sometimes effected purposely for the sake714 DEPOSITS AND CONCRETIONS IN TIIE URINARY TRACT. of removing calculi from the Llarlder, and may be safely carried to the extent of permitting a stone one inch and a half in diameter to be extracted. Paralysis, however, has sometimes resulted, and consequent incontinence of urine from excessive dilatation. Pro- lapsus of the bladder alters the direction of the canal of the urethra, so that it passes upwards and forwards. There is no essential difference between catarrhal inflammation of the female and of the male urethra ; it is generally consecutive to a similar condition of the vagina. The lips of the meatus are seen to be swollen, and on pressure upwards muco-pus flows from the orifice. Stricture is very rarely, indeed, the result of inflamma- tion, which appears to be owing chiefly to the circumstance that the disease in the female is not of long duration. Mr. Curling met with a case in which a stricture, attended with complete retention of urine, was produced by contusion experienced during a severe labour. The vascular tumour of the meatus is thus described by Sir Charles Clarke : “ Its texture is seldom firm ; it is of a florid scarlet colour, resembling arterial blood; and if violence is offered to it, blood of the same colour is effused. It is exquisitely tender to the touch; and if an accurate examination of it be made, it appears to shoot from the inside of the urethra. Its attachment is so slight that it appears like a detached body lying upon the parts.” Sometimes the growths extend partially along the urethra, or may even be situated at the neck of the bladder. The tissues of the urethra occasionally undergo a kind of chronic hypertrophy, so as to form “a bulbous tumour.” The veins are enlarged and varicose, and the areolar tissue increased in quantity, while the mucous membrane may be either thick, or on the con- trary, thin and shining. A mucous discharge takes place from the canal and from the vagina. We are much inclined to consider this state as more truly deserving the name of chronic urethritis than that which Dr. Ashwell has so denominated, but which seems more of the nature of severe pruritus. It may also be com- pared to the state of the veins of the rectum, which gives rise to haemorrhoids. DEPOSITS AND CONCRETIONS IN THE URINARY TRACT. Various chemical substances are deposited from the urine under certain morbid conditions in different parts of the urinary tiact. We only notice here those which form masses visible to the naked Deposits in the Uriniferous Tubes.—Uric acid and urates, chieny urate of ammonia in a crystalline form, are sometimes found pre- cipitated in the straight tubes of the medullary portion of the kidney in new-born infants. The papillae and pyramids appear to the naked eye marked with yellow or orange lines, and sometimes715 DEPOSITS AND CONCRETIONS IN THE URINARY TRACT. tlie same yellow sandy material lies in the pelvis. Microscopic examination shows the straight tubes completely infarcted with the material. This deposition appears to take place after birth, especially in the first fourteen days ; and has never been found in a child actually born dead, very seldom in those who live but one day ; hence it may, in some cases, he valuable as evidence that a child has actually lived. This singular condition is found in about half the children who die between the second and fourteenth day; but is evidently transitory, and may therefore be more frequent than this proportion suggests. Similar infarctions of urates are seen occasionally in the kidneys of gouty persons, and perhaps precede the deposition of crystalline urates in the stroma, which has been already described. Calcareous infarctions are sometimes seen in the straight tubes. They are filled with granular carbonate of lime, which also encrusts the papillae. This has been seen in cases where bony parts have been rapidly absorbed, as in mollities ossium. Concretions in tlie Urinary Passages and Bladder.—The concretions or calculi which form in the pelvis of the kidney and in the bladder have so much similarity that they can be described together. Probably many calculi are first formed in the kidney, and find their way into the bladder, where they increase in size. The process by which they are formed is not a simple precipitation, since they always have a basis of animal matter which doubtless modifies the form in which the mineral matters are arranged. This animal basis appears to be some modification of albumen, or perhaps mucin. Calculi vary in size from the finest sand to that of a child’s head. The very large stones are now exceedingly rare. Some foreign body, or a blood-clot, or mass of mucus or pus, sometimes forms the nucleus. Among the largest known are one in the museum of St. Thomas’s Hospital, weighing twenty-five ounces, and one at Cambridge, weighing thirty-two ounces. The following are the chief classes of calculi : *— 1. Uric acid calculi are very common. Their shape is round or oval, surface smooth, or nearly so, structure composed of concen- tric la mi rue. If pure uric acid they are white, but are usually coloured yellow or pink. The size varies from the finest sand to as much as twenty-five ounces (that mentioned above). Urate of ammonia composes calculi very similar to those of uric • Perhaps the most successful attempt yet made to explain the mechanism of the production of calculi is that of Dr. Vandyke Carter, who has investigated their micros- copic structure, and finds that the forms in which the mineral salts are precipitated coincide perfectly with those in which (as shown by Mr. Rainey) similar salts are deposited in the shells of animals, and which have been reproduced artificially by the last-named investigator by mixing saline solutions with organic matters. The process termed by Mr. Rainey, its discoverer, molecular coalescence, we believe to be the key to the formation of calculi, but can only here refer to the original memoirs bearing on the subject, viz., Rainey, “On the Mode of Formation of Shells, &c.,” London 1858- V. Carter, “ On the Microscopic Structure of Urinary Calculi,” London, 1873 ■ see also Ord, “ Quarterly Journal of Microscopical Science,” vol xii. new series p 219 and Harting, Ibid. p. 119, “ On the Artificial Production of Organic Calcareous Formations ”716 DEPOSITS AND CONCRETIONS IN THE URINARY TRACT. acid; the other salts of uric acid are mostly found in mixed calculi. 2. Oxalate of lime forms what is called the mulberry-calculus, from its rough tuberculated surface. It is extremely hard, laminated, and stained dark-red or brown from altered blood. Colourless crystalline calculi of the same composition are some- times found in the pelvis of the kidney; and small polished grains, like poppy-seeds, have been found to be chemically the same. The two forms last-mentioned occur in the kidney. Oxalate calculi are very common. 3. Phosphatic calculi are mostly composed of phosphate of ammonia and magnesia, or triple phosphate, mixed with some phosphate of lime (called the fusible calculus). They are smooth, white, round, or oval, generally laminated, and earthy, but sometimes made up of white scales. Calculi of pure phosphate of lime are rare, but resemble in appearance those just described, except that the colour is usually pale brown. Both these forms may occur in the kidney as well as in the bladder. 4. Cystin calculi are rare. They are yellowish-white, smooth, generally uniformly round or oval, but when occurring in the kidney may be irregular in shape. The substance is made up of shining crystalline plates. They may occur in the kidney, but more commonly in the bladder. 5. Xanthin, discovered as composing a calculus by Dr. Marcet, in 1817, is of extraordinary rarity. Only two subsequent specimens have been recorded, one by Langenbeck, one by Mr. Taylor, from the museum of the College of Surgeons. (“ Trans. Path. Soc ,” vol. xix. p. 275.) 6. Carbonate of lime forms by itself very rare calculi, but is not uncommonly found in mixed calculi. Calculi of pure carbonate of lime are brownish or white on the surface, the substance pure white, and either granular or semi- crystalline and translucent. In one instance they have been found in the kidney. 7. Mixed calculi are probably the commonest of all. They con- sist of a nucleus of one material surrounded by a coating of another, or sometimes of alternating layers of two substances. These are chiefly uric acid, or urates and triple phosphate; but oxalate and carbonate of lime may both form part of mixed calculi, the latter as an external crust. Mixed calculi occur more especially in the bladder, but sometimes in the kidney. The deposit of phosphates on the outside is connected with an inflammation of the bladder and alkaline mine.CHAPTER XXXIX. ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OP THE MALE GENERATIVE ORGANS. Testicles and Vasa Deferentia.—There is no sufficient evidence to show that more than two testicles ever exist. They are absent when the entire sexual apparatus is wanting, and in some rare cases they are imperfectly formed, or one only may exist. An apparent absence of one or both glands at birth is not very unfre- quent, the descent of the organ being arrested or delayed, so that it lies in the groin, the inguinal canal, or the lower part of the abdomen. It may happen that the vas deferens exists without any trace of a properly formed testicle. If this be the case on both sides, virile power may be apparently unimpaired, though there is, of course, perfect sterility. Again, the vas deferens may be absent, and even the epididymis, while the testicle is plump and well formed, and though incapable of fulfilling its function, scarcely less than the other. The most usual and least degree ot imperfection is, that the vas deferens terminates in a blind extremity before reaching the vesicula seminalis. Retained Testis.—A defect of greater practical importance as being more common, is the imperfect descent of the testis into the scrotum. Of one hundred and three male infants examined by Wrisberg at the time of birth, seventy-three had both testicles in the scrotum, while in twenty-one one or both were in the groin, and the remainder had one or both in the abdomen. He found the imperfection more frequently on the left than on the right side, in the proportion of seven to six. Mr. Curling believes that if the descent does not take place within twelve months after birth, it is seldom fully and perfectly completed afterwards without being accompanied by hernia. The reason of this is sufficiently apparent, the pressure of the muscular walls of the abdomen must tend to cause the descent of the intestine through the open inguinal canal When the testicle is still in the abdomen at birth, it may descend' and usually does, within a few weeks (it did so in ten out of the twelve cases mentioned by Wrisberg), or it may not descend till some time before puberty, or it may not appear at all. The causeABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE TESTICLE. 718 of the testis remaining in the abdomen is considered by Mr. Curling with much probability to be owing either to paralysis and detective development of the cremaster muscle, or to the contraction of adhesions between the gland and some adjacent viseus. rihe discovery of the continuation of muscular fibres from the fixed attachment of the cremaster up along the guberaaculum to the testis in its primitive situation by the side of the vertebral column inclines us strongly to believe that these fibres must be the agents in causing the descent of the gland into its appointed place. Con- traction of the external abdominal ring is also mentioned as one of the causes impeding the descent of the testis. In rare instants the testis wanders into other situations—one has been found in the perineeum, the other being normally placed; and in a few instances a testicle has preferred to make its exit by the crural instead of the inguinal canal. Sometimes it happens that the gland is turned round in the scrotum, so that its anterior face becomes posterior. What is the condition of the gland in these cases of imperfect descent ? This must always be a matter of much anxiety to the subject of the phenomenon, and it is not easy to answer the ques- tion with certainty. Mr. Curling, indeed, affirms, as the result of long-continued and most careful investigations into the subject, that 1 ‘ spermatozoa have not been discovered after death in the spermatic ways of a detained testicle in any one instance that he knows of.” * ' Of course, where only one testis is so situated it is of little consequence, the remaining healthy organ preventing its owner from being sterile, but where both are undescended, the many cases in which these testes have been found atrophied or completely undeveloped, render it impossible to speak with cer- tainty of their condition, although instances are not wanting of the subjects of this deficiency becoming fathers of healtny children, f . It is probable that an imperfectly descended testicle is more prone to certain diseases than is the healthy gland. There are on record not a few cases of malignant disease affecting a retained testis—a condition attributed by Virchow partly to the increased liability to injury in this position, and partly to the predisposing developmental imperfection. , There is no such condition known as true hypertrophy ot the testes, although the size and weight ot healthy testes vaiy con- siderably in different individuals. . Atrophy of the testis, either congenital from defective develop- ment or acquired, is not unfrequent. Several instances are men- tioned by Mr. Curling, in which the penis and testicles of persons arrived at the age of puberty, or of adults, did not exceed the size * “ A Practical Treatise on the Diseases of the Testis, &c.*’ by T. B. Curling. F.i,.s., third edit'o^W66, ^30.s goo „ Tol xix p ogg, in which a sixty having two te-tioles no larger than Alberts, but otherwise health} -looking. S children No spermatozoa were found, hut the testes d!d not seem atroplned, only undeveloped.ABNOBHAL CONDITIONS OF THE TESTICLE. 719 Fig. 16f>. of those of children; two of these were of weak mind, but this condition is by no means the frequent accompaniment of cretinism or idiocy. A case recorded by Mr. Wilson shows the influence of aroused mental emotions in producing the due development of the generative organs, which had not taken place at the twenty-sixth year of age. The atrophy of the testis in old age comes on very gradually, the organ becomes flabby, and its tissues discoloured, but it is seldom diminished in size. Mr. Curling states that the ordinary weight of a sound testicle, in a healthy adult, is about six drachms, great individual differences, however, being often met with, as well as differences between the two glands; the left was heavier than the right in five cases out of six. It the weight fall below three drachms, the organ may be certainly said to be in a state of atrophy. In one instance known to us both testes were reduced to the size of small peas, and the individual, aged twenty-three, presented all the characteristics of a eunuch. “ A testicle in an advanced state of wasting, not arising from disease of the gland, usually preserves its shape, but feels soft, having lost its plumpness, elasticity, and firmness. The tunica albuginea is thin. Its texture is pale,.and exhibits few blood-vessels ; the tubuli and septa dividing the lobes are indistinct, and the former cannot be so readily drawn out into shreds as before. The epididymis does not usually waste so soon, nor in the same degree, as the body of the testicle. It sometimes, however, loses its charac- teristic appearance; and I have even found it reduced to a few fibrous threads. The fluid pressed out of the wasted testicle and epididymis is entirely desti- tute of spermatic granules and sperma- tozoa. In many instances adipose tissue is deposited behind the tunica vaginalis, and encroaches on the epididymis, and the posterior part of the testicle. Fatty matter is also found in the glandular substance. The structures composing the spermatic cord undergo a corresponding diminution, the. cremaster muscle dis- appears, the nerves shrink, and the ves- sels are reduced in size and number. Thevas deferens, though small, can gene- rally be injected with mercury as far as the commencement of the epididymis, and sometimes the metal reaches the vasa efferentia. * The causes of atrophy of the testis are very various : deprivation * Mr. Culling, Op. tit., p. C5. Inflammation of tunica vaginalis, after application of caustic, the aperture made by this is shown at *. There are flocculi of lymph on the serous surface of the testis (From Mr. Curling’s article )720 ABNOKMAL CONDITIONS OF THE TUNICA VAGINALIS. Fig. 170. of its supply of blood from obliteration of the spermatic artery, injuries of the spinal cord, producing paraplegia, and probably therewith the loss of the nervous influence necessax-y for the gland, inflammation of its tissue—especially syphilitic inflammation— varicocele, over-excitement of the organ, the long-continued use of iodine, which is said to affect the female breast similarly, tuber- cular elephantiasis, injuries to the back of the head and nape of the neck, the pressure of effusions, and of large hernise, neuralgia, and any wasting disease,—all appear, on good evidence, to be occasional causes of atrophy of the part in question. The serous covei'ing of the testis, the tunica vaginalis, is liable to be attacked by acute inflammation, either primarily or by exten- sion from an inflamed testicle, and then suffers as other serous membranes do. The membrane becomes thickened and injected with blood, and is coated with a more or less considerable quantity of fibrinous exudation. Serum is at the same time effused into the cavity, and is rendered turbid by flakes of fibrine floating in it; and in rare instances suppuration of the membrane takes place. The unabsoi’bed fibrine very commonly foi-ms adhesions between the opposing surfaces, which, in time, become very fii'm and dense, and may obliterate the cavity. Hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis is the name given to the pear- shaped, translucent swelling caused by an undue accumulation of the fluid which is secreted by the serous membrane forming the tunica vaginalis. This accumulation may depend upon either an excessive secre- tion or a defective absorption of this fluid, and it is usually caused by some inflamma- tory action. The fluid is usually clear, and of a straw colour, but it may be quite colourless, green, turbid, slightly ruddy, or glistening with shining scales of choles- terine. Its quantity is sometimes very considerable; six quarts are said to have been withdrawn in the case of Gibbon, the great historian. The serous membrane in old hydroceles may be more or less thick- ened, and even the seat of calcareous de- posit. Adhesions formed between the two layers of the tunica vaginalis may. accord- ing to their length and extent, alter the usual position of the testicle, so that it ap- pears in front, instead of lying in its usual place at the posterior and lower part of the distended sac; or they may subdivide the cavity, and produce thus a multilocular hydrocele. The natural cul-de-sac which exists between the epididymis and the body ot the testicle, is some- Drawing- of larg:e hydro- cele, combined with scrotal hernia. Curling’s article on “ Tes- tis” Cyelop. Anat. and Pliys.721 HYDROCELE. times much distended, so as to form a pouch, which projects on the inner side of the gland. The morbid action in hydrocele is confined to the serous membrane; the testis either remains natural, or is somewhat flattened, and, in some cases, partially atrophied by the pressure of the fluid. When, however, the original seat of disease is in the gland itself, the serous covering is often secondarily involved, so that serous effusion in the sac is very often associated with chronic orchitis, or other diseases of the testicle ; and such a combination has been termed a hydro-sarcocele. Hydrocele seems to be met with on either side in about an equal proportion of cases. In congenital hydrocele the dropsical tunica vaginalis retains its foetal communication with the peritoneal cavity. Encysted hydrocele of the testis, as it is called, proceeds from the development of new cysts beneath the serous membrane. These are exactly similar to the simple cysts we have described, p. 156, having a wall of thin fibrous tissue, and a lining of tesselated epithelium, with usually limpid fluid contents. They may be situated “ (1) Fig. 171. beneath the visceral portion of the tunica vaginalis, investing the epididy- mis ; (2) between the testicular por- tion of the tunica vaginalis and the tunica albuginea, which are thus separated from each other; (3) between the layers of the loose or reflected por- tion of the tunica vaginalis.” In the two last mentioned situations they rarely occur. When formed on the epididymis,-they sometimes carry the serous membrane outwards as they enlarge, so that they become pedun- culated, just as the small serous cysts in the neighbourhood of the ovary often do with the peritoneum. Mr. Curling states that these pedunculated cysts do not acquire a large size, seldom exceed- ing that of a currant. Several cysts may coexist in the same gland, and, when opened, produce the appearance of a sacculated arrangement. The walls of the cysts are liable to inflam- mation, which causes their contents to bo mingled with various exudations of serum, fibrine, or even blood. Sper- matozoa are very frequently present in the fluid of encysted hydroceles, to which they impart a milky or opaline opacity. They subside to the bottom of the vessel, where 3 A Encysted hydrocele of tunica vaginalis. (From Mr. Curling’s aitiole.) The cyst is between the tunica albuginea and the tunica vagina- lis of the testis.IT/EMATOCELE. 722 the fluid is left at rest, leaving the upper portion more transparent, but containing some albumen, which is not found in the limpid contents of ordinary cysts of this kind. It is extremely probable that they make their way into the cysts in consequence of rupture of some seminal canal lying in contact with them, just as a biliary duct sometimes opens into the sac of an hydatid. This opinion is confirmed by the circumstance, that patients generally report the swelling to have commenced after some injury to the testicle. Where this is not the case, it has been suggested that the cyst originates in the persistent embryonic tissue, forming the corpus innominatum of Griraldes, which lies on the back of the testis, between it and the epididymis. Its structure is tubular, and it is connected with the ducts of the epididymis, so that the explanation of the passage of spermatozoa into a cyst formed in this position is sufficiently easy.* Diffused hydrocele of the spermatic, cord is the name given to an accumulation of fluid in that portion of the serous pouch carried down with the testicle from the peritoneum, which extends from the internal abdominal ring to the upper part of the tunica vaginalis. This tube may be either wholly or partially obliterated, and it is when it is closed only at the internal ring above, and at the testicle below, that an effusion of fluid into it gives rise to this form of the affection. Encysted hydrocele of the spermatic cord forms a tumour, of oval shape, and seldom attaining the size of a hen’s egg. It is loosely attached to the vessels of the cord which pass behind it. Instead of there being only one cyst, there may be several, forming a series along the cord. This circumstance indicates their origin, from the partially obliterated process of peritoneum, which is carried down with the testicle in the formation of the tunica vaginalis. According to another view, they are simple cysts, of new production, analogous to those which constitute encysted hydrocele of the testis. It may be mentioned, that simple hydro- cele occurs not unfrequently together with some of the other varieties, and also with inguinal hernia. Hcematocele is the term applied to a tumour formed by an effusion of blood from the vessels of the testis or its coverings, or of the spermatic cord. Its most common seat is in the tunica vaginalis, which may be so greatly distended as to exceed the size of the adult head. The blood undergoes various changes, coagula being formed sometimes in separate masses, sometimes in firm layers, as in the walls of an aneurism. The fluid part in old cases is more or less thick and grumous, sometimes resembling coffee- grounds. The presence of the blood occasionally excites inflam- mation, leading to fibrinous and serous effusion, and, it may be, to suppuration. The effused blood sometimes putrefies, offensive gases are produced, and, unless free exit be given to the decom- » See a note on this subject by Mr. J. W. Hulke, F.E.S., in the “ Trans. Path. Soc.” for 1S70, p. 7.H.EMATOCELE. 723 posed matter, fatal gangrene takes place. The tissues surrounding the tunica vaginalis are apt to become involved in the inflamma- tion, though they are affected in a more chronic manner, and thus the walls of the serous cavity are considerably thickened—perhaps so as to be half an inch in diameter. The testicle usually remains Fi«. 172. Hcematocele; tunica vaginalis greatly thickened, testis pretty healthy. (From Mr. Curling’s article.) unaffected, except that in old cases it is atrophied from pressure. An encysted hydrocele of the testicle or epididymis may be con- verted into an hsematocele, by the effusion of blood into its cavitv. So, also, may the encysted hydrocele of the cord. Both these, however, are rare affections.* Diffused hcematocele of the cord results from the rupture of some vessels of the cord, which are, probably, in some way diseased (e. g. varicose), in consequence of which blood is effused, in greater or less quantity, within the spermatic fascia ; and if the bleeding continues, or recurs after an arrest of varying length of time, a • See a case recorded by Mr. Henry Arnott, in the “ Trans. Path. Soo ” vol xvii p. 181, of old Inemorrhage into the cellular tissue of the scrotum, simulating cancer. ’724- OBCUITIB. tumour of enormous size may be formed, reaching down even to the knees, as in a case recorded by Mr. Bowman in the Medico- Chirurgical Transactions, vol. xxxiii. The cause of the rupture is generally some straining elfort. _ Orchitis (op^is, a testicle)—inflammation of the testis—may be either acute or chronic. The acute disease is sometimes primary, as when the testis has suffered from external violence; but the more common condition, in which the testicle swells with great pain and tenderness during the course of urethritis, is really an epididymitis, the inflammation extending from the affected part along the vas deferens. This limitation may be usually easily perceived, the swollen epididymis far exceeding the body of the testis in size, although still retaining its characteristic form. Opportunities rarely occur of examining the gland when acutely inflamed, but the following appearances have been observed in cases of secondary inflammation of the organ: the testis itself is not much altered, but the epididymis is enlarged, especially at the lower part, to twice or three times its natural size, and feels thick, firm, and indurated. This enlargement depends on the presence of exudation matter in the intertubular connective tissue. The coats of' the vas deferens are thickened, and the adjacent vessels injected. The tunica vaginalis is inflamed, and its walls glued together by soft adhesions, or separated by a variable amount of fluid. Suppuration rarely occurs in the body of the testis in consecutive orchitis, it is more frequent in primary; indeed, in the former, it is not uncommon for the gland itself to escape entirely. When pus has been formed in the testis, it does not easily make its way out, and consequently burrows in different directions, dis- organizing the tissue of the gland. Sometimes, when all active inflammation has subsided, the fluid part of the pus becomes absorbed, leaving only an encysted cheesy mass behind. Another result of inflammation of the testis is wasting of the gland, occasioned by the interstitial fibrinous exudation passing into fibroid tissue, and compressing the blood-vessels and tubuli. The enlargement of the epididymis not unfrequently subsides very incompletely, leaving an indurated, knotty swelling, situated usually at its lower part. The fibrinous matter which imbeds the duct and the areolar tissue in this part, does not necessarily cause the obliteration of its canal, which is even sometimes considerably dilated, as Mr. Curling has observed, so as to be four or five times its usual dimensions. At the same time it must be borne in mind that the prolonged continuance of this fibroid induration of the tail of the epididymis may, in certain cases, lead to permanent obstruction of the excretory duct. Chronic orchitis, in which the inflammatory changes already described proceed more slowly and in somewhat different fashion, rarely develops spontaneously. It may indeed follow a blow, or take the place of the acute affection ; but in almost all cases the change may be traced to the presence of a syphilitic taint, or to the1 io ORCHITIS. tendency to chronic inflammatory affections which characterizes that constitutional state which is commonly styled the “ scrofu- lous or strumous diathesis.” The nature of these varieties, as well in their anatomical changes as in the different treatment required for their relief, render it necessary to discuss them singly. It requires some care to distinguish simple chronic inflammation, or syphilitic disease, from scrofulous, or so-called tubercular testis. Hence the name which any particular specimen receives is very often dependent merely upon history or accompanying morbid changes in other organs. The form of disease which we shall describe as “scrofulous orchitis” is by some authors regarded as the type of chronic inflammation, by others as really tubercular. But from the former it is sufficiently distinguished by its essentially degenerative or destructive character ; and, as to the latter point, tubercles need not be present at all, unless we take this word in a very wide sense; while the disease in which tubercles are present from the first shows very different features. The scrofulous form might very well be called “ phthisis of the testicle ” ; and in regard to the question of aetiology, it is important to remember that this is one of the Conditions which may be the antecedent of general miliary tuberculosis—a fact which we have observed in more than one well-marked instance. . Syphilitic orchitis, or syphilitic sarcocele, is the chronic inflamma- tion of the testicle met with in the later stages of constitutional syphilis. It consists mainly of a smooth, scarcely tender, general enlargement of the body of the testicle. Very generally both testes are affected, one following soon after the other. There is seldom any pain, save some aching in the loin, caused by the dragging of the heavj organ, nor is there much tenderness. In the earliest stage of the disease a distinct nodulation of the surface may be made out, but as the disease progresses the nodules become fused together in a general smooth indurated enlargement of the organ. The skin is implicated only in exceptional cases, and the epididymis is as rarely involved in the disease—points of considerable diagnostic importance, in the absence of other symptoms of constitutional --cinef, as scaly eruptions, nodes, or affections of the throat. I he exciting cause of the enlargement is obscure; in certain cases it seems due to excessive sexual excitement, but it is hardly ever met with in connection with urethritis. The anatomical changes present are of two kinds, either a diffuse form of cell proliferation in the intertubular connective tissue commencing at the surface and dipping in towards the centre of the organ, or the formation in the body of the testis of gummy nodules, which subsequently become fused together. In the earlv stages one sees the delicate connective tissue to be crowded with spherical corpuscles, resembling leucocvtes, separated by a scanty amount of homogeneous material; but as the disease progresses the corpuscles fattily degenerate, whilst the intervening substance increases m density, and presents the appearance of a toughOECHITIS. 72(5 fibroid network. These degenerative changes commence in the central portions of the nodules, the resulting tough yellow masses being surrounded by a vascular zone of actively proliferating Flo. 173. x 320 Syphilitic Orchitis. (From a drawing by Sir. Arnott.) Fig. 174. tissues. As the affection subsides, this vascular zone, by an increase of its fibroid over its corpuscular elements, forms a tough capsule to the now cheesy encysted mass. Meanwhile, however, the changes in the connective tissue, by pressing upon the tubules of the testicle, cause a thickening of their coats and a fatty degeneration of their lining epithelium, so that in advanced cases of the disease the secreting power is gravely impaired, and the physiological activity of the organ diminished, or wholly destroyed. In- deed in some instances, after all active inflammatory changes have subsided, the testicle gradually dwindles away to a hard fibroid mass, not larger than a hazel nut, and of course destitute of functional power. This form of diseased testicle is apt to be associated with hydrocele. Scrofulous orchitis, although here also similar changes in the connective tissue and the tunics are met with, presents some striking contrasts to the syphilitic form of the disease. The epididymis is now the main seat of the destructive process, although the body of the testicle is frequently involved. The enlargement—often nodular at the Chronic orchitis, with fungous protrusion of testis. (From Mr. Curling’s article.)ORCHITIS. l'J.1 outset, and limited to the epididymis—progresses even more slowly than in syphilis, and it is common for the skin to share in the inflammation, the coverings of the testis becoming early adherent to it; and finally, the skin breaking down, an ulcer is formed, having thick indurated edges, through which the pent- up diseased testis protrudes in a granulating mass, in the form of a “benign fungus.” This fungous protrusion, although it may be covered with ordinary granulations, includes a great portion—sometimes even the whole of the testicle—the altered tubules being separated by a certain amount of fibro-corpuscular or cheesy material. The researches of Mr. Curling and Dr. Andrew Clark long ago pointed out the nature of the change chiefly present in this scrofulous form of orchitis. This seems to consist essentially in an affection of the true glandular structures, rather than of the tissues binding these together, although both suffer to some extent. The epithelium lining the seminal tubules proliferates, the cells block the tubes, and dilate them irregularly; Fig. 175- nutrition and physiological function being interfered with, the cells become cloudy and swollen, fat granules ac- cumulate within them, they burst, discharging granular nuclei, and finally a con- siderable mass of oily and fibrinous debris occupies the seat of the tubes which have been destroyed. Where these changes have occurred in isolated bits of the tubes, minute grey or yellow nodules result, and hence from their resemblance to so- called “ tubercles” in the lungs of phthisical people, these testicles have been called “ tubercular.” The close analogy between “ catar- rhal pneumonic phthisis ”—in which the main feature is an active proliferation and degeneration of the epithelium—and scrofulous orchitis, on the one hand, and between ‘ ‘ chronic interstitial pneumonia,” or “ fibroid phthisis” and syphilitic orchitis on the other, may serve to render the important distinctions here referred to more evident. Tubercle of the testis, in the form of grey miliary semi-translucent points, such as are met with in the lungs and other organs of patients dying with acute tuberculosis, seems to be a compara- tively rare affection. It is probable, however, that this is because the testicles are seldom examined in medical autopsies. In the Museum of St. Thomas’s Hospital there is a beautiful specimen of 2.2,1' Scrofulous orchitis. (From a drawing by Mr. Amott.)TUMOURS AND NEW GROWTHS OF THE TESTIS. 728 this disease, taken from the body of a man, the subject of general tuberculosis, and showing the testis somewhat enlarged, and thickly beset with grey firm semi-translucent pin-head nodules, none broken down, nor the seat of any notable fatty change. These miliary granules are usually seated in the delicate inter- tubular connective tissue, and tend, by their coalescence and sub- sequent degeneration, to form irregular iron-grey, or partly cheesy masses, indistinguishable in their later stages from the nodules already described under the head of scrofulous and syphilitic orchitis. Indeed, in all these inflammatory affections of the testicle, although up to a certain point the pathological changes may be tolerably distinct, a stage is reached before long in which all the tissues of the organ partaking in the destructive processes, the tough grey or yellow nodule resulting affords no histological clue to the mode in which the changes have been brought about. For an inflammatory process inside the tubes will speedily set up irritative changes in the surrounding connective tissue, whilst this connective tissue will not long continue inflamed without involving to a greater or less extent the epithelial elements of the tubes adjoining. Secondary abscesses have been found in the testicle, apparently as the result of pyaemia, in connection with synovitis of the shoulder joint and lobular pneumonia. A preparation of this kind is in the Museum of St. George’s Hospital. TUMOURS AND NEW GROWTHS. Cancer is met with occasionally in the testis, occurring there almost invariably as a primary disease, the most frequent form being soft carcinoma, called by Abernethy “ Medullary Sarcoma.” Some part of the body of the testis being first affected, the new growth gradually invades the whole organ, entirely replacing the normal tissues, and involving to some extent the tunics, but rarely infiltrating the skin, save in exceptional instances of tumours fungating through an opening in the scrotum. The fibroid alveolar stroma so characteristic of this form of cancer is usually well marked, but the cell forms contained in its meshes are sometimes so small and regular as to suggest rather a lymphoma or small round-cell sarcoma than true carcinoma. In one such case which we examined, the histological appearances of the testicle-tumour were very peculiar, the structural arrangement being quite that of carcinoma, but the cells being all spherical—not much larger than leucocytes—and contained in long parallel slit-like meshes of the stroma. In this instance, however, the patient died some months later, and in large secondary formations in the lumbar glands, and scattered through the abdomen, the ordinary elements of carcinoma with large epithelioid cells were abundantly present.729 TUMOURS AND NEW GROWTHS OF THE TESTIS. Even where the mass of the growth is composed of large irregular cells packed in a slight fibroid framework, there are usually por- tions—generally about the margin—of the tumour in which the cells are small and regular, like those of granulation-tissue. True scirrhous carcinoma, in which the dense stroma is greatly in excess of the contained cell growth, is hardly ever encountered in the testis, although different parts of the same tumour often present very different degrees of hardness. If any of the healthy gland-tissue is left it is spread over and closely adherent to the carcinomatous nodule. This disease has an unhappy tendency to spread up the cord—sometimes as a uniform and continuous enlargement, at others in a nodular, irregular manner—and it early affects the lymphatic glands lying in front of^ the lumbar spine; the inguinal glands remaining free unless the scrotum also be involved. Secondary formations in remote viscera are also to be looked for in these cases, if the patient live long enough. The spermatic vessels become enlarged in proportion to the extent and rapidity of the growth. Carcinoma of the testis seems to be most frequent in middle life, and from thence on to sixty or sixty-five, but it has been observed even in infancy. Colloid carcinoma is unknown in the testis, and there are very few cases on record of melanotic cancer in this locality. A small round-cell sarcoma has been described as causing a swell- ing ot the testicle, very difficult to be distinguished from carcinoma. Probably the microscope alone could decide between them, for this round-cell tumour is frequently associated with invasion of the ljunphatic glands. It forms a cream-like infiltration of the testis, with an abundant milky juice, and having a structure of round or oval nucleated cells imbedded in a granular semi-fluid matrix, but. with none of the alveolar fibroid stroma characteristic of carcinoma. Spindle-cell sarcoma, having a strong tendency to be associated with cyst development, is also met with in the testis. This cystic tumour, like cancer, is limited to one testicle, but differs materially from it in its comparative freedom from the clinical features of malignancy. The cysts may be only two or three in number, or excessively numerous, causing considerable enlargement. They vary in size, from the most minute to the dimensions of a pigeon’s egg, and their delicate walls are lined with a beautiful epithelium. Their contents are, in the younger cysts, a transparent, light-coloured fluid, in the older, a more thick, viscid, and very albuminous substance, in which’ more or less blood may be present. The cysts are imbedded in a stroma of I spindle-cell tissue; sometimes small masses of enchondroma being developed between them. A lobulated growth of the same fleshy tissue sometimes arises from the wall of the cyst, and occupies I its cavity more or less completely. In one specimen we have730 TUMOURS AND NEW GROWTHS OF THE TESTIS. examined, the contents of the cysts were not identical; in some, which appeared as opaque white spots, they consisted of layers Fig. 176. Section of cystic sarcoma of the testis. After Mr. Curling, of scaly epithelial particles, more or less flattened and pressed together; in others, the contents were a pulpy mass of swollen Fig. 177. © © 0 3 •? © © <D © 0 H Contents of various cysts in the case referred to in the text. In the lowest figure the epithelial scales are flat and apposed to each other; m the middle the epithelial scales are much swollen, and mingled with granular matter and corpuscles.731 TUMOURS AND NEW GROWTHS OF THE TESTIS. scales, with very abundant amorphous and oily matter, and small, delicate vesicular globules; others again contained a clear fluid, and a soft, whitish pulp, consisting almost entirely of small oil- laden, granulous vesicles. The stroma enclosing the cyst cavities consisted of a dense fibroid substance. Haemorrhage may take place into a number of the cysts at different places, as is well seen in a beautiful specimen of the disease in St. George’s Museum. In this case the testis was enclosed in a common covering—pro- bably the tunica albuginea—along with the tumour, and lay at one side of it; in other cases, the glandular structure was expanded over the growth. There was no contamination of the glands, nor, as far as known, any return of the disease, in the patient from whom the tumour just mentioned was removed. In those rare cases in which the appearance of a cystic sarcoma of the testicle has been followed by secondary growths in the lungs and elsewhere, these visceral growths are generally made up of the same spindle-cell tissue as that forming the fleshy stroma of the primary cystic tumour, and are rarely themselves cystic. Such 1 tumours have been commonly described as mixed cancerous and : simple cystic growths in the testicle. Enchondroma.—It has been mentioned that small masses of t enchondroma are occasionally developed between the cysts. The f tendency to the development of cartilage—usually of a foetal, • hyaline type, but with smaller and more crowded cells—in most ■ new formations in the testicle is singularly marked, the testicle i resembling in this respect the parotid gland. This admixture of i cartilage with the other connective-tissue elements of the sarcoma- t tous tumours is also commonly to be traced, although in a less degree, _ in the secondary growths in the viscera and lymphatic .glands in cases of diffusion of the disease. The cysts are supposed 110 ta^e their origin generally in a dilatation of the seminiferous ; tubules, but they probably also arise from a softening of the s sarcoma tissue, or collection of fluid between its histological ele- •rnents, as seen in other cystic growths elsewhere. They never contain spermatozoa, and the lining epithelium does not resemble ■that lining the seminal tubules; indeed, in one reported case* the cysts were lined with ciliated epithelium. We have seen a 'cholesteatoma, or pearly epidermic tumour, in the epididymis -attached to the testicle. Osseous growths are unknown in the testicle, the nearest approach to bony structure being an occasional infiltration of the fibrous i or cartilaginous tissues with bone salts. True fibroma of the testis seems to be of almost equally rare occurrence. Mr. T. Holmes has recorded one instance of a large afibrous growth of the tunica vaginalis, the size of a cocoanut, close above the testis, of thirty-three years’ growth; and Mr. Haward exhibited at the Pathological Society of London, in 1872 a speci- men of genuine firm fibroma springing from the tunica albuginea, * “ Tians. Tath. Soc.,” vol. vii. p. 241.732 VARICOCELE. and projecting into the testicle of a man, aged eighty-one. In this instance, the tumour—which closely simulated a chronic enlarge- ment of the testis of eight years’ duration—was removed with the testis by Mr. Pollock, at tho patient’s request, and on examination it was found to possess all tho ordinary characters of dense fibroma of other organs. Loose bodies are occasionally found in the tunica vaginalis, similar to those occurring in joints. They are, in all probability’ masses of exuded fibrine, and have, at least in the majority of cases, no claim to the epithet cartilaginous, which is often given to them on account of their external appearance. Calcareous matter is sometimes deposited in them; and Mr. Curling has observed the presence of laminae similar to those of bone. Dermoid cysts, sometimes containing besides well-formed skin with sebaceous follicles, hair and bone and teeth, are met with occasionally in the testicle, just as they are in the ovary, and they have been explained generally on Geoffroy Saint-Hilaire’s theory of‘‘foetal inclusion,” the germs of a second embryo being sup- posed to be included in the testicle of the first. But as "before stated (p. 157), and as has been remarked by Professor Humphry on this special point, “It may well be doubted whether such a process ever takes place.” * They are far more likely to be the result of departures from the natural formative processes in the testicle at a period when the developmental forces are in activity, and when morbid products are more prone to be composed of natural structures than they are when occurring at subsequent periods of life. Some of these dermoid cysts have a very complex constitution, containing several kinds of tissue, not always epidermic in character. Such growths must be called teratoid tumours. This is one of the rare situations where striated muscle has been found as a new growth. Such tumours also occur in the scrotum. Certain fibroid masses, reported by M. Jarjavayt and others as growing from the fibrous envelope, and partly invading the testicle, and partly sprouting out as a superficial form of benign fungus, are probably of an inflammatory origin, and partake of the characters of so-called “ granulation tumours.” Varicocele —Morbid dilatation of the spermatic veins constitutes varicocele, a condition so common, and, as a rule, with few exceptions, associated with symptoms so trifling, as hardly to merit the name of a disease. Caused by many conditions,—as the long and wind- ing course of the veins, their free anastomoses, and their liability to frequent compression in their course through the inguinal canal, —the enlarged veins in their turn may become a cause of some wasting of the testicle. When much dilated, and with walls thickened by the fibroid development present in most cases of * “Diseases of the Male Organs of Generation.” By G. M. Humphry, M.D., F.R.S., in Holmes’s “ System of Surgery,” 2nd edition, vol. v. p. 147. t “ Archives Generates de M6d.,” 4kine serie, t. xx.733 MORBID CONDITIONS OP THE SCROTUM. varicose veins, tlie vessels form a swelling, feeling like a bunch of worms below the testicle, and reaching up towards, but rarely invading, the cord; to be distinguished from hernia by its peculiar teel, and by its gradual decrease in size on the patient’s assuming a recumbent posture, to return on his standing up, the inguinal canal being free, and by the history of the slow course of the com- plaint. The left veins are oftener affected than the right, partly m consequence of accumulation of harder focal matter in the descending colon than m the ascending, partly on account of the left spermatic vein opening at right angles into the renal, and paitiy, perhaps, from the lower position of the left testis. When the varicocele is slight, it does not impair the nutrition of the testis but, when large, it occasions very marked atrophy— blood’m C0DSeflueuce of the ^creased venosity of the retarded amfoS !nTT iai'e ^fsjonally developed in the spermatic cord, tW ^ distinguished trom encysted hydrocele of the cord by theu doughy inelastic feel. Like the cysts, these tumours are f-ittv “10Vable to a ignited extent, and so simulate hernia. These fatty tumours may be complicated by the presence of sarcoma tissue together with the fat. This was the case in a specimen of recurrent fatty tumour of the cord, shown by Mr. Curling at a meeting of the Pathological Society of London in 1867. Micro- scopic examination ol the tumours removed discovered the presence ol spindle-cell growth, resembling “foetal connective tissue’’in tiie peduncle which had been cut through at each operation ’ and from which, doubtless, the recurrent tumour had been developed. MORBID CONDITIONS OP THE SCROTUM. It may be well to notice here the morbid conditions of the i asa Portlon ^tegument which has somewhat peculiar : t Mof of,most 4C'“ a . h . • ,Cazenave regards as essentially connected I fre nm,!amnUltl0rl 0t ,the iympimties of the part. This produces . the most enormous enlargement of the Dart—snob +w L s huac|red P°Unds more thaa the weTgh? t the rest of the body. The epidermis, the corium, and the sifh cutaneous areolar tissue, are all, especially the latter : The areolar tissue is converted into n lnro° ^ tfdbT,rrUnfiU“i.et‘ 7“*« m . Its aieofo are much enlarged in some mrt« • ti,,. a * ■remain sound; the spermatic cords are elono-ated" several inlf68 owing to the testicles being dragged down but te not lb h°S’ • diseased. Hydrocele sometimes occurs. When the disms .elwi8e f,ned to the scrotum, and the enlargementbec<W™°V"T the penis is drawn in, and ultimately ^arl wLftt734 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF TIIE VE8ICUL/E SEMIN ALES. elongated prepuce is continuous at a navel-like opening in the I skin of the surface of the tumour. Common hypertrophy of the integument of the scrotum some- times occurs; in this there is no alteration of the subcutaneous tissue. Epithelioma is the common form in which cancer appears in the i scrotum, constituting what is generally called chimney »v;eeptr\ I cancer, on account of its being apparently produced by the contact I of soot. It is very remarkable that the disease may not appear till I many years after the person has ceased entirely to be in any way ; exposed to the influence of soot. Mr. Curling mentions a case in | which a man, after having been a sweep, went to sea, and led a sailor’s life for nineteen years before the disease made its appear- ‘ ance. It is, of course, possible that, in these and similar cases, ! the cancerous development and the sooty employment were mere coincidences. The disease advances by invading the adjacent tissues, and thus produces fearful ulceration, extending even to the groin and thigh, and destroying life by perforating the coats of some of the large vessels. Wide diffusion of the disease through- out the body is happily rare, but the lymphatic glands in the groin not unfrequently become) affected. Histologically, scrotal cancer consists of coarse squamous epithelium, in masses imbedded in a slight stroma of connective tissue, and having large “ bird’s-nest ” collections of epithelial scales in rich abundance. A case of melanotic cancer of the scrotum has been observed by Mr. Curling, and other forms of new growth,_ including fibroma and sarcoma, have been occasionally met with in this region. Dermoid cysts also occur here. ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE VESICTTHE SEMLNALES. Chronic catarrhal inflammation not uncommonly attacks the vesiculee, causing tumefaction of their mucous membrane, secretion of unhealthy mucus, dilatation of the cavity, and thickening of its parietes. Ulcerative destruction of the mucous membrane occasionally takes place, the result of which may be thickening of the parietes (the morbid action having subsided), or perforation, with formation of abscess in the adjacent parts. The vesicuke seminales are occasionally affected by scrofulous inflammation, in which the tubes are distended with the fatty products of the epithelial proliferation, whilst the intertubular connective tissue is but little altered. Professor Humphry has also described an enlargement, with induration of these bodies in old age, producing symptoms simu- lating those of enlarged prostate, and presenting the appearances of scirrhous carcinoma. In such cases, the seat of the change n the connective tissue, which is extensively indurated and thickened without much alteration being noticeable in the tubes, bcarceABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE PROSTATE GLAND. 735 anything is known respecting cancer of these parts, except that they only suflier secondarily from extension of adjacent disease Hydrocele of the seminal vesicle has been described, and Professor N. E. Smith, of Baitimore, has recorded* a remarkable case in which the collection of brown serous fluid amounted to twenty pints, and gave rise to all the symptoms of retention of urine the bladder expelling its scanty contents every half hour, whilst a large fluctuating tumour distended the belly, and bulged into the partly obstructed rectum. ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE PROSTATE GLAND. The prostate is imperfectly developed when the organs of ; operation are so. Its size is diminished in some cases, when the testes are atrophied ; it is then rather consolidated in texture Hypertrophy of the prostate is an affection of advanced life, ‘about one man in three having some enlargement of the part after sixty iWb i°fLage’ Willst !n about twelTO Per cent. of men living ■ beyond this age the enlargement becomes notable, so as to be the • source of more or less trouble to the patient. In exceptional cases • f fmay attam a Slze so £reat as to displace the other pelvic contents, as m a case recorded by Sir Henry Thompson in which a prostate weighing twenty ounces pushed the bladder . nearly up to the umbilicus, even when empty. The condition : comes on quite imperceptibly, as one of those changes whose exist- ence is unknown till their secondary effects begin to be produced ■ The enlargement may take place in all the dimensions of the Hand -so that it expands laterally, downwards, and upwards. °Most ften one lateral lobe is enlarged more than the other which %d.eviatlon of the urethra to the other side. It is said that the left is the one most commonly affected, and that it also frequently projects more than the right towards the cavity of the This however, is by no means an invariable ruk.The so-called third lobe is commonly enlarged more or less when the datera1 lobes are so but may attain a great size without a^y cor-e- - ^ponding hypertrophy of the lateral. It forms a kind of pyramidal elevation, projectmg into the cavity of the bladder, and causing The^nfhrali011^Cieiit0 ,b° ra?sed> and ln some measure blocked up° .The enlarged middle lobe has been found of the size of a si mil range, more often it does not exceed that of a walnut; its surface may be smooth or nodulated. The hypertrophy of this ■ considerable, has the effect of throwing the neck of the bladder forward, and increasing the depth of its lower region ; caicuh may lodge behind and below the prostate in its 1? PpSie canal of the urethra becomes lengthened in ifo nm f 7* portion; sometimes divided into two channels W tl .prostatio * “ Lancet,” Oct. 19th, 1872.736 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE 1‘ROSTATE GLAND. in consequence of its vesical orifice being raised, describes a curve whose convexity is downward. The pressure on the rectum causes flattening of that channel, and more or less uneasiness in it, and may, perhaps, occasion hsemorrhoids, or prolapsus ani, in the same way it irritates the vesicular seminales, and induces thicken- ing of their walls ; pains felt in the parts to which the sacral nerves are distributed may be dependent on direct contact of these nerves with the enlarged gland, or on a reflected stimulus con- veyed to their place of origin along the compressed vesical and hsemorrhoidal filaments. . , The most important result, however, of the enlargement, is tae obstacle which it causes to the complete evacuation of the bladder. This depends partly on the narrowing of the urethra, and partly on the circumstance that a certain quantity of urine is always contained in the lower part of the bladder, below the elevated orifice of the urethra. In some cases the urethra, instead of being narrowed by compression, so as to appear like a slit on a trans- verse section, is considerably dilated, so that the prostatic sinus • may contain two or three ounces of urine. An enlarged prostate is often indurated, so that by older writers it has been called. scirrhus The retained urine decomposing, causes irritation and inflammation of the bladder, with all its results, such as we have already described. Moreover, as Mr. Coulson describes it, the enlarged middle lobe becoming broader, and raising up a train- • verse fold of mucous membrane, which passes off on each side to the lateral lobes, constitutes a kind of valve, which is pushed. before the urine in every attempt that is made to void it, and closes up the opening till the cavity ^he,^1^der^s-Te^“?l1. distended; then the anterior part of the bladder being pushed. forward, and the tumour being drawn back m consequence ti- the membrane of the posterior part of the bladder being put on the stretch, the valve is open, so that a certain quantity of water is allowed to escape, but the bladder is not completely enTheeenlargement in these cases of hypertrophied prostate is due mainly to an increase in the connective and plain muscular tissue forming the bulk of the gland. With this the ciypts of the glandular structure may be also ddated. In development of the fibro-muscular tissues takes the form ol separate pea-like tumours imbedded m the substance of the gla. . and analogous in all respects to the fibro-muscular masses forming. the “fibroid tumours ” of the uterus. Acute inflammation may attack the prostate, commonly as the result of extension of gonorrhoeal inflammation ; it may go on to, suppuration, or cause chronic enlargement, or an irntable condi tion of the gland, with increase of its secretion When abscess occurs, there may be one or several; a single one large enou contain half a pint of matter, or small and numerous foci, .o tha the gland appears riddled with holes. The abscess may 1LABNORMAL COXDITIOXS OF THE PROSTATE GLAND. 737 the bladder, into the prostatic sinus of the urethra, into the I rectum, or, externally, into the perinseum. Ulceration of the prostate scarcely occurs, except in some cases of chronic hypertrophy. It occasions severe suffering, and the admixture of blood with the urine. Tubercle is not of frequent occurrence in the prostate; it is generally co-existent with tuberculosis of other parts of the generative apparatus, and of the lungs. It may form a single large mass, or numerous small separate ones. As the tubercles soften and disintegrate they give rise to abscesses, which pursue the same course as those of inflammatory origin. Cancer is rare in the prostate; five cases of it only were met with by M. Tanchou among 8,289. The scirrhous species has been scarce ever observed. Encephaloid, either primary or extending from the bladder, is almost the only form that occurs. It causes considerable enlargement of the gland, and may also perforate the mucous membrane of the bladder, and vegetate in its cavity, filling it up so completely as to give rise to the idea of the viscus being distended with urine. The disease occurred in a patient of Air. Stafford’s, at the age of five years, and in one of Air. Solly’s at three. After childhood, however, the disease is not encountered until after middle life, no authentic case being recorded between I the ages of eight and forty-one. Cysts are in extremely rare cases formed in the prostate, as Mr. I Adams thinks, by closure of the outlets and dilatation of the I cavities of follicles. Concretions, in greater or less number, are of almost constant I occurrence in the prostatic cavities; they may often be seen, on making a section of the gland, as reddish yellow grains. The larger, fully formed ones, show under the microscope a beau- I tiful laminated structure, and resemble a good deal a section of a lithic acid calculus. Their form varies very much ; in the smaller I it approaches the oval or circular—in the larger, it is more poly- gonal, or triangular. They are not unfrequently pale or colour- * | less. They originate in large oval vesicles, formed of a well- I marked homogeneous envelope. These appear to increase in size, while concentric laminae are formed in their interior, whose inter- spaces are occupied by a finely mottled deep yellow or red matter. A central cavity is almost always left within the last-formed laminae. ' Deposition of organic matter may take place in some cases exterior - to the original envelope, but in most it appears to be within. Concretions of older date seem to lose the beautiful definiteness of * their structure, and tend to disintegrate. The contents of these semi-organized formations appear to be earthy matter (phosphate, with a little carbonate of lime), tinged by the ordinary yellow pig- * ment which is so often derived from the blood. We do not think they are developed from the ordinary epithelial particles of the gland, but that the original vesicles are cells of a particular kind, which are produced from organic exudation upon the mucous sur- 3 B738 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE PROSTATE GLAND. face, and fill themselves, as their growth proceeds, with successive deposits of materials, which are probably poured out when the gland is the seat of vascular excitement.* It is most prdbable that in ordinarily healthy states these concretions undergo solution at an early period of their existence, yielding up their contents to Fia. 178. Prostatic concretions magnified. (Dr. H. Jones.) form part of the secietion of the gland. But if this does not occur, and they go on increasing in size, they become the nuclei of, or are developed into, prostatic calculi. They are sometimes very nume- rous, as many as fifty or sixty having been found in an atrophied dilated prostate, which has, in consequence, when examined ptr rectum, given the sensation of a bag of marbles. The calculi some- times cohere together, and form a large mass, projecting into the membranous portion of the urethra, which becomes in consequence much dilated. A remarkable case of this kind has been lecorded by Dr. Herbert Barker,! in which twenty-nine calculi, weighing together 1,681 grains, were cemented together so as to form a single concretion, which was nearly five inches long, and of an elongated pyriform shape. The surfaces of these calculi are faceted from mutual pressure; they are of a whitish or reddish colour, of porcellaneous lustre and hardness, with a radiated, * The organic base of these concretions has the same shape and arrangement as the mineral constituents, and is apparently albuminous. Their formation seems ° admirable instance of the process called “ molecular coalescence by - r. * ’ which we have refereed to in the ca.se of urinary calculi. Mr. Ramey baa> “' ’ . the carbonate of lime, when formed by double decomposition m an al - .' mucous, or gummy medium, assumes the form of concent 11c bodies the prostatic calculi and also certain urinary calculi of the horse. Mi. \ anc 5 has seen similar spheroidal forms in phosphates.—Ed. .. f “ Transact, of Prov. Med. and Burg. Association,’ vol. in. IS16.739 ABN OEM AL CONDITIONS OF THE PENIS. laminated, or compact structure. Lassaigne’s analysis gives the following as their composition : basic-phosphate of lime 84-5, car- bonate of lime 05, animal matter 15. The smaller calculi often escape into the bladder through the dilated prostatic ducts; if they remain there they excite irritation of the mucous membrane, and deposition of phosphates upon their own surface. A coating of lithic acid has sometimes been formed on a large calculus remain- ing in the prostatic portion of the urethra. ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE PENIS. The penis is very imperfectly developed in some cases of normal condition of the other sexual organs, as well as when they are themselves imperfect. We have seen it extremely short and fissured in its whole upper surface in a case of eversio vesic.ce. When it is very small, fissured below, and destitute of prepuce, and when at tie same time the testes remain in the abdomen, and the scrotum is cleft, there results a considerable resemblance to the female con- formation , or, if the penis is less atrophied, a pseudo-hermajihro- ditism. Atrophy of the penis, accompanied by obliteration of the cavernous textures, occurs, according to Rokitansky, together with atrophy of the testicles. The penis is subject, like the rest of the body, to inflammation, which, affecting various parts, gives rise to special symptoms, and receives special names. Thus, “ chordee,” a peculiar and painful twist of the erected organ, may result from inflammatory thicken- mgin the corpora cavernosa or spongiosum, or from the formation of a gummy tumour in the corpora cavernosa of a syphilitic. Balanitis, inflammation of the mucous membrane of the glans ; and posthitis, inflammation of the inner surface of the prepuce, with resulting ulceration and even gangrene in neglected cases, are amongst the accompaniments of venereal disease. The vesicles of herpes sometimes form on the prepuce, on its mucous or cutaneous laminae. Venereal Sores.— More grave by far than these lesions, how- ever, are the special ulcerations met with as results of impure sexual intercourse. These ulcers, or chancres, as they are commonly termed, are found on the glans, in the sulcus behind the glans, on either surface of the prepuce, and even within the urethra—although probably seldom more than a few lines irom the urethral orifice. They are of two kinds—(1) The hard, or Hunterian chancre, the initial manifestation of the con- stitutional disease of syphilis; and (2) The more common soft non-infecting venereal sore; and to either of these, but especially tae latter, may be added, in certain depressed conditions of the system, an irregular sloughing action converting the indolent sore into a rapidly-extending, foul ulcer, then styled phagedenic Ihe initial manifestation of syphilis, according to Mr. Berkeley740 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE PENIS. Hill, may take three forms. 1. The desquamating papule, a reddish-purple solid elevation, covered by a few thin, epithelial scales, and gradually spreading from the size of a pin's head to tliat of a sixpence or a shilling. 2. The superficial erosion, a moist, slightly raised surface much resembling the “ mucous patches ” of the later stage of the disease, and met with in similar positions, as under the foreskin in the male, and the inner nymphaj in the female. 3. The. indurated ideer, beginning as a hard papule, but gradually assuming its typical appearance of a sore with a hard base, feeling to the touch like a cup of gristle inserted in the skin, with a surface covered by a scanty adhesive yellow discharge, and bounded by sloping rounded edges, the induration extending some- what beyond the immediate margin of the ulcer. This initial manifestation of syphilis may remain for from three or four weeks to as many months, when, under treatment, the induration and other signs gradually disappear. The soft chancre, or non-infecting venereal sore, is distinguished from the syphilitic lesion by the absence of marked induration, by its sharply-cut margin giving it the appearance of being punched out of the skin, and by its spongy, worm-eaten base, bathed with a foul auto-inoculable pus. As a result of this last important pro- perty, it usually happens that these sores are multiple, especially in women on the opposite surfaces of the labia pudendi, and around the free margin of the prepuce in men. The anatomical characters of the induration tissue underlying a syphilitic ulcer, although closely resembling those of the gummy tumours subsequently forming in the skin, the viscera, and ehe- where, and hence deemed by Wagner a structure peculiar to syphi- lis-syphiloma—probably differ in no material respect from the appearance presented by any form of chronic inflammatory lesion. Beneath the thickened cuticle and enlarged papillae, a dense layer of fibro-corpuscular growth is seen, tho corpuscles resembling leucocytes, and separated only by a slight granular substance, or enclosed in the meshes of a definite fibroid stroma, which in some instances is of considerable density. A structure precisely resem- bling this is met with wherever slow irritative processes have been long°at work, as in an old indurated pile, or about the cavities of lungs destroyed by chronic phthisis. . The term ulcus elevatum has been applied to a species of sore unconnected with syphilis; probably a variety of what is now called the soft sore. n , Phymosis is the name given to such a contracted and elongated prepuce as cannot be drawn back over the glans. This is usuaflya congenital defect, and may be present to an extreme degree. e have seen a man whose preputial orifice was from birth no larger than a small pinhole, and in whom circumcision was requite in middle life to enable the penis to perform its functions. Sometimes such a condition results from psoriasis of the prepuce, or from tne contraction following the healing of venereal ulcers.741 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE PENIS. Paraphymosis is the opposite condition, in which a tight prepuce, having been drawn back, constricts the neck of the glans, from having itself become thickened, and thus occasions a distended state of the glans, and even mortification unless the stricture be removed. Phymosis is apt to give rise to attacks of balanitis, from the accumulation of the secretions of the coronal follicles. New Growths.— Warty vegetations sometimes form on the glans, or on the inside of the prepuce; they are commonly the result of the irritation of foul urethral discharges, and are capable of being cured effectually by removal. Cancer may affect any part of the penis, but is most frequent on the glans and prepuce. Cases of sarcoma (in two instances mela- notic, and made up of spindle cells) have been recorded in this posi- tion. And still more rarely a scirrhous infiltration of the body of the penis has been observed, but by far the most common form of cancer here is epithelioma The disease may originate as a warty excrescence, or as a pimple which discharges an excoriating fluid, scabs, and breaks out afresh, while induration advances at its base ; or it may infiltrate the glans, so as to convert that part into an indurated mass. After a lengthened interval ulceration supervenes and sometimes spreads with rapidity, destroying all neighbouring tissues in its march, and causing at times great pain. In rare in- stances the warty vegetations—which can with difficulty be distin- guished from simple growths at first—spread down the urethra, but more commonly the superficial structures suffer most. The histo- logical characters are those of ordinary squamous-cell epithelioma. Secondary growths, except in the adjacent glands, are not of com- mon occurrence. Phymosis and the irritation attending upon it, seem to act as exciting causes; advanced age as predisposing, whilst, in some few instances, direct contagion from a cancerous uterus has been alleged to be present.THE PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY OF THE FEMALE ORGANS OF GENERATION. CHAPTER XL. THE EXTERNAL ORGANS OE GENERATION. In the labia, suggillations are frequently met with as a result of external violence, or after parturition ; the effusion from a violent injury may give rise to very considerable tumefaction, which must not be confounded with varicose swellings. When the consequence of childbirth, it generally affects the left labium,* and occurs more frequently in pnmipane than multiparse. The swelling in either case has been known to attain the size of a fist, or a child’s head. It presents a tense, smooth surface, with a livid colour. Varicose veins of the labia may also acquire a very considerable size; but the slow increase of the tumour, and the vermicular character of its contents, together with the ready compressibility of the swell- ing, will determine the diagnosis. Varicose swellings, too, occur during the course of pregnancy, and, though sometimes very con- siderable, do not generally cause any impediment to parturition, as they are external to the vulva. Cases, however, are recorded of their sudden laceration during parturition, and of a consequent fatal issue. The haemorrhagic tumour disappears spontaneously, or in consequence of treatment, but exceptionally the swelling persists, probably becoming encysted, and may then be borne for an indefinite period. A case is related by Mauriceau,t in which a tumour, originating in this way, existed for twenty-five years. A ready explanation of the common occurrence both of large blood extravasations and varicose swellings is to be found in the fact that the vaginal veins are destitute of valves. A form of atresia vaginae, not unfrequently met with amongst infants, and occasionally suffered to persist until adult life, is * “Ejlian, die Geburtslehre,” &c., vol. ii. p. 617, 1840. Frankfurt. ^ + “ Observations sur la Grossesse et l’Accoucliement des Femmes, Obs. 29. Paris, 16P5,THE EXTERNAL ORGANS OF GENERATION. 43 caused by adhesion of the labia pudendi. The closure in these cases is usually not complete, being limited to the posterior half of the orifice, and, when detected in infancy, may generally be remedied. If, however, owing to the neglect of the surgeon or the parents, the adhesion is suffered to remain, a firm membranous septum is formed which may need operative measures of an active kind. Inflammation.—Inflammatory affections of the labia may arise from internal and external causes, and exhibit the various forms of inflammation met with in other superficial textures. Ecze- matous and aphthous inflammation, as a result of derangement of the digestive organs, of pregnancy, of a want of cleanliness, or of sexual over-indulgence, are common. Eczema is characterized by the appearance of a vesicular eruption scattered over the inner or outer surface of the labia. The vesicles break and scab, and they are the source of much of the pruritus to which females are subject. The loose cellular tissue, occupying the interval between the external and internal labia, especially favours cedematous swell- ing, and, when the inflammation bears a phlegmonous character, extensive sloughs form. Instances of this in early life are recorded by Mr. Kinderwood,* who witnessed an epidemic at Manchester, marked by great fatality. The mucous crypts, especially the aggregation lying on each side of the vestibulum, and termed by Bartholinus the female prostate, are liable to inflammation from catarrhal, herpetic, syphilitic, or other causes, resulting in chronic ulceration or tedious discharges. Even young children are frequently liable to simple or benignant inflammatory affections of these parts, giving: rise to much irrita- tion and muco-purulent secretion—a circumstance with which it is necessary to be acquainted, as popular prejudice is only too prone to attribute it to contagion. Abscess in Bartholini’s gland is dis- tinguished from abscess in the cellular tissue of the labium majus, or from ischiorectal abscess, by its being limited to the furrow between the labia and by its pointing on the inner side of the nympha, or in the furrow. Warts, due generally to the results of impure intercourse, but not necessarily associated with a syphilitic taint, frequently dis- figure the vulva. They resemble in all respects the similar warty excrescences commonly met with about the prepuce of men suffer- ing from urethral discharge. They may be pedunculated, and no larger than small peas, or many warts conglomerating, both labia may be converted into a tumour of great size, whose surface is phaggy, with firm pale coarse papillary projections bathed in an offensive and highly irritating discharge. When such a mass is removed, the subcutaneous connective tissue is found to be little altered, the changes being limited to an hypertrophy of the skin, the papilla) being specially the seat of the overgrowth. • “ Med.-Chir. Trans.,” vol. vii. p. 81.HI ABNOHMAL CONDITIONS OF TIIE LABIA. Due in the first place to the irritation of foul vaginal discharge, the thin fluid exuding from these warts is apt to cause fresh warty growths to spring from the skin soiled by it. Hence the most frequent seat of these excrescences is the lower part of the vulva, the perinaeum being also a common position, and the clitoris and adjacent parts being less often affected; hut they may be met with in all parts of the external sexual apparatus. Mucous tubercles, or mucous patches, or “ plaques muquemw,'" are growths allied to warts in their nature, but differing from them in that they are only met with in patients suffering from syphilis. They commence as flat, circular, or oval elevations, of a rosy or purple colour, having a diameter of a quarter or half an inch, bathed in thin, offensive, highly contagious secretion, and situate usually about the vulva or anus, or mouth; but they may occur wherever two perspiring surfaces are in contact, or upon mucous surfaces, as the tonsils. The small patches are apt to coalesce, and form large irregular elevations, especially on the perinaeum, and they are usually so painful as to attract notice early. They are frequently present in syphilitic women, and are often almost the only signs of the disease present. Tumours.—Encysted tumours of slow growth affect the labia, and are probably due to an obstruction in the first instance, and subsequent distension of one or more of the follicular structures. They consist of a membranous envelope, containing a transparent, glairy fluid ; and only prove a source of inconvenience after they have attained a large size. Other tumours are described as occurring in the pudenda, independently of the hypertrophy resulting from chronic inflam- mation. Sir Charles Clarke has described a variety under the designation of the oozing tumour of the labium, which is chiefly characterized by a profuse discharge from the muciparous follicles. It is but slightly elevated above the skin, and has an irregularly nodulated surface. It occurs in persons advanced in life, endowed with general obesity, and in whom the labia are enlarged. Erectile and fibroid tumours are also met with in this part of the system. A remarkable specimen of the latter, successfully removed by operation, is preserved in the Royal College of Surgeons of Eng- land (No. 2,715). It weighed upwards of eleven pounds, and is six inches in diameter. It is covered with healthy skin, and consists of a pale and compact, but soft and elastic, tissue, traversed in some parts by irregular, shining fibres, and in others having several small oval cavities in it. The patient was thirty years of age, and the tumour had been growing for many years. Hypertrophy.—The vulva is also subject to enormous enlarge- ment from elephantiasis of the skin, an affection rarely wit- nessed in this country, but epidemic at Barbadoes. In this disease the labia may be so greatly hypertrophied as to reach to the knees. A less rare form of enlargement of labia and nymphm is due to an increase of the subcutaneous fat andTHE HYMEN. 745 connective tissues; but this variety seldom attains any very great size. In new-born infants the nymphse normally project beyond the labia majora, and, in some wild tribes, the custom exists of inducing their elongation by artificial means; th:s is sa;d to be the case among the Bushmen and the Kamschatdales. Among the Arabs and Copts circumcision of females prevails, which consists in removing a portion of the elongated nymphse. The enlargement of the nymphse has been set down to an abuse of sexual indulgence, but this is, probably, as incorrect as the same statement has been shown to be with regard to hypertrophy of the clitoris. This rudimentary penis excites no attention, unless enlarged beyond its normal proportions. It is capable of assuming the most extravagant size. Some of the cases of her- maphrodism that are on record may be explained by a reference to congenital hypertrophy of the clitoris. The largest specimen that we have met with is preserved in the Museum of the University of Bonn. It is fourteen inches in circumference, and weighs eight pounds. Mr. Salford Lee quotes several instances of similar hypertrophic enlargement. Parent Duchatelet met with enlarged clitoris in only three cases of 6,000 registered prostitutes in Paris. Dr. Ashwell, in his remarks on the subject, expresses his concurrence with the last observer as to there being no necessary connection between an habitual sexual indulgence and the permanent increase of the clitoris. He adds, that he has often been struck with the integrity of the external genitals in prostitutes, while the uterus and ovaries have been bound in all directions by bands of false membrane. Cancer of the clitoris is rare, but we have seen two instances of epithelioma in this position; and in one case, which terminated fatally, the disease involved largely the inguinal glands ■ on both sides, and appeared also in characteristic nodules in the heart—all these secondary growths having the typical characters 1 of squamous-cell epithelioma. We allude to the urethra at present, only, to speak of certain affections of the orifice, which opens beneath the clitoris, into the vestibular portion of the vagina. The very large crypts and sebaceous follicles surrounding this sensitive point are the frequent : seat of blennorrhoic and other forms of inflammatory action. The so-called vascular tumours, or urethral haemorrhoids are not uncommon in early middle life. These small, bright, red excres- cences usually spring from the urethral orifice, or from the floor of the urethra close to the orifice, and have been already spoken of. TOE HYMEN. . The valvular fold of membrane which protects the virginal vagina, the hymen, which is commonly ruptured when coition is first completely effected, has been a subject of much discussion byABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE VAGINA. 746 medical jurists, as its absence has been regarded as an unequivocal sign of defloration, or its presence as a proof of the unimpaired virginity of the individual. Neither position is absolutely correct; for the best authorities are agreed that, on the one hand, it mav be destroyed by ulcerative absorption, or, on the other, that it may persist, not only after coition, but even after parturition. The latter fact is corroborated by the testimony of Merriman, Nagele, Ramsbotham, and others. Other deviations from the normal state of the hymen are the cribriform perforations that it exhibits ; or it surrounds the entire introitus vaginae, leaving a central circular orifice, or it entirely occludes the passage. The latter circum- stance is not likely to be discovered, as other atresiae of the external orifices are, early in life. With the approach of puberty' it will induce much inconvenience from the mechanical retention of the menstrual discharge, and, unless discovered and rectified, will be the source of serious disturbance. The hymen is some- times found much indurated, and of a cartilaginous consistency, and even osseous deposits have been met with m it. The hymen, after it has been ruptured, is partially, if not entirely, absorbed. The carunculse myrtiformes, which have been generally looked upon as the remains of the hymen, are now regarded by manv authorities as normal formations that are not associated with lesion of the hymen. ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE VAGINA. The vagina presents very considerable varieties of conformation and size within the normal limits of health, differences depending upon the age of the individual and the effects of cohabitation or childbirth, or the absence of these influences. A congenital closure of the passage may, independently of an imperforate hymen, or adhesion of the labia, convert the vagina into a cul-de-sac, a lesion which can scarcely be attributed to anything but intra-ute- rine inflammation, if the uterus be present. A remarkable instance, which appears to have been an arrest of development, is detailed by Dr. Boyd,* where, in a female, aged seventy-two, who had been married, though necessarily without issue, the vagina terminated in a cul-de-sac, about half an inch deep, beneath the orifice of the urethra. There was no vestige of a uterus, nor any Fallopian tubes; the right ovary was natural, and attached by a loose liga- ment to the bladder; the left ovary was abnormal, but similarly connected with the bladder. A multiplication of parts is, perhaps, more frequently met with, and is produced by the formation of a septum, which is more or less complete; it may extend through the entire length of the vagina, or only partially divide it. A remarkable specimen of this malformation was exhibited by Mr. Birkett before the Pathological Society ; t the vagina of a married • “ Med .-Cliir. Trans.,’’ vol. xxv. p. 157. + “Report, &c., 1S47-48,” p. 295.ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE VAGINA. 747 woman, who had never borne children, and had died of pneumonia and pericarditis, was completely divided in the mesial line by a strong, dense, fibrous septum, extending from the external opening to the uterus. Thus two vagime existed; each vagina led to a distinct os uteri, both of which were small; the neck of the uterus was rather longer than usual, the body smaller; the uterus itself was nearly divided into two cavities, by a septum in the mesial line. Occlusion, or stricture of the vagina, sometimes occurs as a result of external injury or of cicatrization of ulcers. The rigidity or laxness of the walls varies much in different subjects, according to the general habit and the amount of secretion from the glandular apparatus surrounding the vagina. The great capability of the vagina for extension is best shown in parturition ; hence it is not to be wondered at that prolonged uterine or vesical disease should induce a very lax state of the mucous membrane of the vagina, which, as it often does, becomes a source of extreme distress and inconvenience to the patient. In old women we often meet with this relaxed condition, which may amount to a complete prolapsus. The anterior wall is particularly prone to be thus affected. Dr. Golding Bird * has pointed out that this lesion gives rise to a foetid, phosphatic, and mucous state of the urine in elderly females, owing to an accumulation of the urine in the prolapsed bladder lying in a pouch of the anterior vaginal wall. He shows that it may be the source of great irritability of the bladder and incontinence of the urine, which is best relieved by frequent catheterism, so as entirely to empty the bladder. In prolapsus of the uterus the mucous membrane of the vagina is necessarily dragged down with the * descent of that organ. Injuries.—The vagina and the external organs are exposed to ! mechanical injuries of various kinds, and, in certain medico-legal i questions, it requires care to determine their exact nature, as well as ! to avoid confounding the menstrual discharge with haemorrhage re- i suiting from injury. Parturition frequently gives rise to laceration t and severe contusions of these parts. The inferior portion of the (canal, either from unusual rigidity, or from want of proper care on the ] part of the attendant, is apt to give way when the labour pains are at their climax; and the lesion may vary from a mere laceration of tthe fourchette to a rupture of the entire perinseum, from the vagina 'to the anus. It may happen as a very rare accident that the : perimeum is perforated without the rent extending into the : natural opening of the vulva. Laceration of the upper portions of :the vagina also occurs to a varying extent, in conjunction with, or independently of, rupture of the uterus. A small laceration is not : necessarily fatal. Boss t reports the case of a woman who was t twice the subject of an accident of the kind, and each time re- • “ Medical Times and Gazette,” January 1st, 1853. t Dr-Francis H. Kamsbotham gives this and other illustrative instances in his Principles and Practice of Obstetric Medicine and Surgery,” p. G03. London, 1841.1-10 VAGINITIS. covered. This result is out of the question, when, as occasionally happens, the child escapes into the peritoneal cavity. Vagin"us. The mucous membrane of the vagina is very fre- quently the seat of inflammation; the commonest form is the catarrhal. In the first stage the passage is reddened, heated, and diy, this is followed by the secretion of a white, creamy mucus; or, if there ^e anything of a specific character, the discharge is more purulent or flaky. The mucous secretion, which serves to lubricate the vagina in health, may be poured out iu large quantities under certain con- ditions of plethora or weakness, and this already complex acid fluid, mingled with a free alkaline secretion from the glands lining the cervix uteri, forms a curdled white albuminous fluid, which flowing from the vulva constitutes leucorrhcea. This white dis- charge contains always more or less of altered epithelium, and it may be so abundant as to gravely affect the health of the sufferer. The cervix uteri is doubtless often implicated, but as the acid of the vagina is sufficient to neutralize the alkaline secretion of the uterus, the fact of the latter being frequent and copious is masked; hence the discrepancy of the opinions of various authors on the subject of the source of leucorrhoea. The external surface of the os uteri, according to Dr. Tyler Smith, yields a secretion of the same character as the vagina itself. In both, eczematous vesicles are frequently met with, which the same author regards as identical with the ovula Nabothi, which, by seme, have been interpreted as obstructed follicles, but Dr. Tyler Smith asserts that they are often found in situations where mucous follicles cannot be detected. False Membranes.—Bokitansky and Forster describe exudative, or croupous and diphtheritic processes, occurring in the vaginal mucous membrane primarily, but more frequently in conjunction with a similar disease of the uterus, in the shape of puerperal disease. Simi- lar pseudo-membranaceous disease is said also to occur in the course of typhus, pyaemia, cholera, and the exanthemata; but these affec- tions are probably rare in this country. Dr. Barnes states that diphtheria of the vagina occurs especially in lying-in hospitals. He also mentions a form of vaginal inflammation; in which the surface is covered with pellicles or flakes consisting almost entirely of agglomerated epithelial scales, and distinguished from the diphtheritic false membrane by being white and brittle. For this affection, which is not usually attended by febrile symptoms, he suggests the name pseudo-diphtherilis. A complete epithelial false membrane, like the dysmenorrheeal false membranes from the uterus, is preserved in the Museum of St. Thomas's Hospital. Gonorrhoeal vaginitis is difficult to distinguish from the simpler form; but, according to Dr. Barnes, the redness is much more intense, there is copious muco-purulent secretion of yellowish or greenish tint, and it affects more especially the fundus of the vagina, with some implication of the vaginal portion of the uterus.749 NEW GROWTHS OF THE VAGINA. A chronic thickening of the vaginal mucous membrane is occa- • sionally met with. The catarrhal and the syphilitic ulcer also affect this part. Gangrene sometimes results from the effect of parturi- i tion, or the contusion caused by rough manipulation. The cicatrix i that results from the healing of a slough is occasionally an im- pediment at subsequent deliveries; a puckering of the vaginal i membrane, and consequent diminution of the passage, having taken place. Tumours and, New Growths.—The vagina is not often the seat of • morbid growths. Polypi and encysted tumours are the varieties ; that most frequently affect this situation. The posterior part of ■ the vagina is stated to be the ordinary seat of polypoid growths. An instance given by Mr. Curliug, in the “ Eeports of the Patho- logical Society,”* forms an exception to the rule. Here the solid tumour, which was removed from a woman, aged forty-five, grew 1 from the upper part of the vagina, to which it was attached by a broad peduncle, which commenced just behind the meatus of the urethra, and extended backwards towards the uterus about two i inches and a half. The structure of tbe polypi varies in character; i they may be fibrous or mucous—the fibrous being the least fre- i quent. They vary equally m size, from a trifling projection to i growths several pounds in weight. The encysted tumours of the vagina originate in an obstruction ■ of the follicles with which the upper and lower portions of the : region abounds; they con tarn a glairy, transparent greenish or dirty-brown, albuminous fluid; and, though the source of irrita- tion and inconvenience, are not productive of any danger, their ; correct diagnosis affording a speedy means of relief; but they have been repeatedly mistaken for totally different affections, such as ] prolapsus of the womb or the bladder, or for hernia. Specimens of cancer affecting the vagina are preserved in most : museums of pathological anatomy; they show that this part is commonly secondarily involved by an extension of the disease from the cervix uteri; “however, it may exist,” to employ the words of Kokitansky, “ though the latter is in a very undeveloped : state, and even without it, in the shape of primary carcinoma of the vagina.” The form of cancer present is doubtful, the rnicro- i scopic appearances having been seldom recorded. We have our- 1 selves seen one case of apparently obvious epithelioma of the floor of the vagina near the orifice, but there is a general belief that this form of disease is never met with in this position. Primary cancer of the vagina is undoubtedly extremely rare. It may be propagated from the rectum when the wall is destroyed by ulceration. * Vol. i. p. 301, 1847-18.* “ Pathological Anatomy,” vol. ii. p. 277, Syd. Soc. Ed. CHAPTEK XLI. ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE UTEEU8. Congenital Malformations.—We have already given an instance (page 746) of an entire absence of the uterus—a malformation which need not affect the health of the individual. Rokitansky states that the occurrence is extremely rare, and that most of the cases in which the uterus appears to he absent may be resolved into a partial arrest of development only, and that, by careful examination, we may find, behind the bladder, one or two rudi- mentary bodies, in the proper fold of the peritoneum, which repre- sent the uterus. An actual multiplication of the organ is equally rare ; but it is not an uncommon thing to find a more or less complete attempt at the formation of a double cavity, which is manifestly the result of an arrest of development. The bilo- cular and horned uterus are the malformations alluded to; in the former, a more or less perfect septum extends through the uterus in the median line; in the latter, the organ presents the character of the uterus exhibited by certain mammalia, as the sheep, and is divided into two lateral compartments by a fissure, extending vertically downwards from the fundus. This maybe explained upon the assumption of an imperfect union of the two rudimentary bodies from which the normal uterus is developed. Only one of these may arrive at maturity, and we shall then have a uterus consisting only of a single horn, or of one half; there will then, necessarily, only be a single Pallopian tube. The uterus unicornis, as well as the uterus bilocularis and bicomis, are capable of becoming impregnated ; Rokitansky* details the parti- culars of an example of pregnancy in a rudimentary uterine horn, which terminated fatally by rupture and sanguineous effusion into the peritoneal cavity in the third month. There may he many intermediate conditions between the bicornute uterus and the organ with one horn so much larger than the other as to place it inHYPERTROPHY' AND ATROPHY OP THE UTERUS. 751 • tho category of single-horned uteri.* When the two halves . coalesce, the division which constitutes the malformation may vary considerably in amount; only a slight depression may be visible at : the fundus in one case, so that the organ scarcely deviates from its : normal condition ; in another, the fissure extends so far down as to i justify the appellation of double uterus, ordinarily bestowed upon tho i anomaly. An excellent instance of this is preserved in the Museum of St. George’s Hospital (No. 101 of Dr. Lee’s preparations). This ! preparation also illustrates what takes place after impregnation; vwhile the ovum is received into one horn, which becomes duly developed with the growth of the foetus, the other only sympathizes ' with it so far as to form a deciduous membrane, and thus to prevent t the occurrence of superfoetation, but otherwise undergoes but trifling jalteration or increase. Though impregnation and parturition are i not necessarily fatal, these malformations seriously endanger the 1 life of the patient—owing, as Rokitansky observes, partly to the 'want of the necessary dimensions of the part that undertakes the /functions of the entire organ, partly to the obstacle opposed to :the uniform development of the impregnated uterine half by the ummpregnated half. These circumstances favour laceration of the uterine parietes. Rokitansky also shows that the divergence 1 of the cornua from the axis of the body causes an impediment in :the act of parturition, while the expulsive power of the uterus is much reduced, by the absence, in the case of the uteris bicornis, of •■a true fundus. A highly interesting case of malformation of the uterus has been pput on record by Mr. Croft, in the “ Trans. Path. Soc.,” vol. xix. IThe subject of the deformity lived only four days, and was brought ;t j Mr. Croft for imperforate anus, the perinoeum showing no indica- tion of any anal aperture. After death a largely distended uterus vwas found bulging up from the pelvis, surmounted by two eg<*- Ilike cornua. The cavity was full of viscid fluid—a mixture of unne •and mucus—both bladder and rectum communicating with it by iminute apertures. Descending from the partition between the lihorns of the uterus was a septum, complete save for a small oval ; foramen in the lower portion. A more rare condition than those imperfect tendencies to single or double-horned uterus is an absence of the uterine orifice, form- ing one of the causes of retention of menstrual fluid after puberty HYPERTROPHY AND ATROPHY. Hypertrophy and atrophy of the uterus are, in part, normal at the periods of puberty and involution; much tact is necessary to * For more detailed accounts, and many interesting examples of those malformations of the uterus the reader is referred to t?ie valuable wm k of KSssmau? Wu°4^?18m ’ Verkummerung und Verdopplung der GebUrm”.’752 HYPERTROPHY AND ATROPHY OF THE UTERUS. distinguish some of the morbid from the healthy conditions of the organ. The weight and dimensions of the adult uterus fluctuate in health considerably. Kib.an * gives the following as the result of his measurements:—The entire length varies from twenty-four to twenty-six lines; the greatest breadth is eighteen lines; the greatest thickness, nine lines: the cervix is from ten to twelve lines long ; its breadth from six to eight lines ; its thickness from five to six lines : the length of the uterine cavity is twelve lines, its breadth nine lines ; the greatest thickness of the fundus, five lines, of the sides, four lines, and of the cervix, three lines. After one or more births all these measurements increase from one-fifth to one quarter. The weight of the uterus varies from eight to twelve drachms, and may, after several pregnancies, amount to two ounces. With the aid of this table we shall be better able to deteimine whether we have to deal with a morbidly enlarged or diminished uterus. Either affection may involve the entire organ, or be manifested in a part only. In certain cases, the uterus continues through the whole or part of adult life in the undeveloped condition met with in childhood, the various parts being perfectly formed—and, indeed, occasionally expanding at midd o age—but the size of the organ not increasing as usual at puberty. This condition, which receives the name of “infantile uterus,” may or may not be accompanied with ovarian defects, and is usually, though not always, associated with absence of sexual desire and the power of conception. The infantile condition of the uterus is characterized by its small size, so that the uterus seems scarcely wider than the vagina, and by the disproportionate size of the cervix and comparative small- ness of the fundus. This condition is sometimes seen in chlorosis, accompanied by defective development of the circulatory appa- ratus, as first pointed out by Virchow,f whose observations we have been able completely to confirm. ■ The term atrophy should not be applied to the persistent infantile condition of the uterus just noticed, but should be limited to those comparatively rare cases in which the considerable dwindling in size and activity met with at the climacteric period in advanced middle age is brought about at’ an unusually early period. Even in these cases, however, ovarian activity usually ceases with the premature involution of the uterus. The cei vix is sometimes the chief seat of the atrophic changes, but it is more common for the entu’e organ to assume a fibrous, anaemic, attenuated appearance. Certain of these instances of general atrophy of the uterus are due to what Sir J. V. Simpson styled “ superinvolution ” of the uterus after parturition. Partial atrophy, caused by the pressure of ovarian or other adjacent tumours, or “ eccentric atrophy,” due to a thinning ot * “Die Geburtslehre,” &c., von Dr. H. F. Kilian, vol. i. p. 92. Frankfurt, 1S39. t Virchow, “ Die Ohlorose,” u.s.w. Berlin, 1872.753 UTERUS DURING MENSTRUATION. the stretched uterine walls by an accumulation of contained fluid, are also occasionally met with. Hypertrophy is more commonly met with as a morbid state than atrophy; partly as an exaggerated expression of the normal con- dition, at certain periods of life, partly as the result of irritation set up by other morbid processes. These may consist in tumours, occupying the substance, or filling the cavity of the uterus ; giving rise, eventually, to actual expulsive efforts, resembling labour pains, or to blennorrhceic affections of the mucous surfaces. The cervix is liable to be hypertrophied by itself; the labia may form a single tumefied ring, or present two tumours, lying parallel to one another, and separated by a transverse fissure. The first form is more likely to occur in women who have not borne children, and the second in those who have. The anterior is more frequently enlarged than the posterior lip. In the hypertrophy resultin''' from defective involution after delivery, the whole organ is involved, but seldom to any considerable extent, though the changes affecting the cervical portion are, of course, more apt to attract attention. Ihe cavity of the uterus may be morbidly diminished in conse- quence of inflammatory affections of the surrounding textures, or by malposition or curvation, and may amount to complete oblitera- tion. An instance of obliteration of the cavity of the uterus is preserved in the St. George’s Hospital Museum (Dr. Lee’s Prepara- tions, No. 161), in which the cervix remained patulous. ~SS e shall have occasion to see that the os and the cavity of the uterus are frequently plugged up by secretions, but this must not be confounded with, actual adhesion of the parietes. Strictures are commonly met with at the external and internal orifices of the cervix; they appear to be mainly due to inflammation of the mucous and submucous tissues of the parts. UTERUS DURING MENSTRUATION. The uterus swells considerably from the flow of blood which takes place at this time to the genital organs; its muscular sub- stance becomes more succulent and looser in texture, the mucous membrane thicker, and shows a dark-red bleeding surface while the parenchyma is often spotted with red from minute ecchymoses Ihe uterine glands of the fundus and body of the organ become lengthened, corresponding with the increase in thickness of the mucous membrane, so that the latter appears quite fibrous on section Ihe ciliated epithelium of the mucous membrane falls off at the beginning of the menstrual htemorrhage, and a proliferation ot epithelial cells which resemble those of the Malpighian layer begins. This-.proliferation continues through the whole of the menstrual period, till at its close the formation of ciliated epi- 3 c754 MALPOSITIONS OF THE UTEEUS. thelium begins again. The mucous membrane of the cervix is little altered. The two lips of the vaginal portion become of equal length. MALPOSITIONS OF THE TJTEKUS. No organ of the body is liable to so frequent and so varied and extensive changes of position as the uterus, many of which i ei j materially affect the health of the individual and her prospects of maternity. Opinions are much divided as to the importance of some of these lesions; and it is uncertain how far the symptoms sometimes attributed to them are due to this cause alone ; but into these questions we cannot enter. There are tw;o great classes of malpositions, known respectively as versions and flexions. Versions are those in which the whole organ is tilted out of its ordinary position, its axis being little, if at all bent on ltseli: and flexions in which the axis of the cavity of the uterus forms an angle, more or less abrupt, with the cervix. We have thus an e- version and retroversion, and anteflexion and retroflexion, besides the occasional oblique position to one side, encoimtered m preg- nancy, or associated with growth m the uterus. 01.the two chief abnormal positions, the backward tdt and twist (often conjoined) are far more frequently noted than displacements forward. It is obvious that extreme flexion of the uterus on itself besides interfering gravely with the bladder or rectum, may be the cause of many painful symptoms and severe dysmennorihcea In Di. Graily Hewitt’s work on “Diseases of Tiomen (3rd Edition, 1872)f the other symptoms thought to be associated wuth the less marked degrees of displacement are recorded at length, and the volume may be advantageously consulted for further information °nThc second' class of malpositions consists in a descent of the womb into the vagina, or in its extrusion beyond the labia, the term prolapsus has been, somewhat arbitrarily, applied TO the lower degree, procidentia to the extreme form. In either case the axis of the womb must be altered, as well as its relations to tie surrounding viscera. The predisposing cause is often some hypertrophy of the organ, together with a lax state of the tissues generally, and more particularly of the ligament, of theuteiu* and of the vagina, which may be the symptom of a debilitated constitution, as in lymphatic individuals, or the result of reputed pregnancies, the commencing prolapse being often1 £ a£r°ravated by long standing; hence the frequency of thu atie tion.1 amongst cooks and laundresses. The immediate cause is very frequently an unusual bodily effort, • rns.es It is to be borne in mind, however, that in the major • ' ■ n of so-called prolapsus the condition really present is i c r* and hypertrophy of the cervical portion of the uterus. This has75 5 MALPOSITION'S OF THE UTERUS. been specially insisted upon by Huguier, wlio bas also drawn attention to the frequency with which the portion of the cervix situate above the vagina becomes affected. This hypertrophy and elongation may be so extreme as to give rise to a very large tumour, dragging down with it both bladder and rectum and pro- truding from the vulva, the body and fundus of the uterus retain- ing theh normal size and position. The secondary effect upon the prolapsed organ is, that it is irritated, and that its surface ulcerates ; or that it becomes the seat of further congestion and hypertrophy, and that its exposed surface becomes indurated and horny. Pro- lapsus is most frequently met with after the middle period of life ; instances of its occurrence before puberty are recorded by Dr. Ashwell, * and other authors. Dr. Ash well’s work also contains the history of three cases in which, during the whole period of pregnancy, the womb had lain partly or entirely external to the pudenda. In two of these the child was born while the entire uterus was beyond ttie vulva ; in one it had occupied that position for several months, in the other for eight years previous to conception. A very serious malposition, which comes on after parturition, spontaneously, or as the result of undue manual interference in removing the afterbirth, in an unusually distended or relaxed womb, is that known as inversion of the uterus. It consists in a greater or less descent of the fundus uteri into the cavity of the organ, and it may amount to a complete turning inside out. It is generally accompanied by very dangerous htemorrhage ;' if the organ is not at once replaced in its proper position, and the patient survives the immediate shock; as sometimes happens, the uterus becomes reduced in size, and the inconvenience sustained may be comparatively trifling. Burns details a case in which an inverted uterus was borne for twenty years, menstruation continuing during the whole period. Inversion is not, however, exclusively a sequel of parturition • it also occurs as a result of the influence of fibrous polypi, o-r0w- ing from the inner surface of the fundus. An unimpre<mated lnver ed uterus is preserved in the Museum of the Royal College of burgeons of England (No. 2,654), showing the Fallopian tubes obliquely in the upper part of the vagina—the effect of a polypus growing from the fundus. Velpeau removed a polypus from a woman, who died soon after of peritonitis, and the uterus was found to have been completely inverted. The presence .of fibrous tumours in the substance of the uterus, or inclosed in the.cavity r when complicating pregnancy, favours the occurrence of inversion by disturbing the normal balanco of tho expulsive contractions I ?,ome a^°™ are inclined to attribute it to extreme shortness of the umbilical cord. Instances are recorded in which tho entire 1 averted uterus has been removed by ligature, or by tho knife • in ■ some cases inadvertently, owing to the tumour having been mis- A Practical Treatise on the Diseases peculiar to Women,” p. 541, London 1845 >7.30 INFLAMMATION OF THE UTEEUS. taken for a polypus, and of the patient’s having entirely recovered. One of these cases is recorded by Dr. J. Cooke. * The diagnosis of inversion of the uterus from a large projecting polypus is not so easy as might be thought a priori. The chief reliable sign is the possibility of insinuating the uterine sound beyond the neck of the polypus into the cavity beyond. Of course no such sulcus exists in cases of complete inversion of the uterus. "We have already had occasion to refer to the occurrence of rup- ture of the uterus as a concomitant of pregnancy in the homed or bilocular malformation of the organ. The accident is also met with in the normal uterus. A trilling laceration at the os tincse occurs at every birth, and is therefore of no consequence; and it appears that until the solution of continuity extends beyond the circular fibres of the cervix no danger is to be apprehended. Above this point the rupture may penetrate the entire thickness of the parietes, so as to allow an escape of the foetus into the abdominal cavity ; or one layer only, either on the inner or outer surface, may give way. It has been shown by many observers that the perito- neal investment of the uterus may, during parturition, alone be lacerated, leaving the uterine substance entire. The direction of the rent is stated differently by authors. Rokitansky affirms that it is generally vertical, Burns asserts it to be transverse, and Kilian maintains that it is commonly diagonal. It very rarely affects the fundus, but most frequently the posterior and inferior surface* which corresponds to the promontory against which, in the act of parturition, the expulsive efforts propel the child with peculiar force. Bupture of the uterus occasionally takes place before parturition, as a result of external injury; it is said not to be necessarily fatal, nor as dangerous as might be supposed. In one such case of rap- ture in the fourth month of pregnancy, with no clear history of external injury, the parts were sent up from Norfolk to us for examination. We found a granular fatty condition of the uterine tissue at the site of rupture, suggesting some inflammatory process which had weakened the muscular wall at this spot and favoured its rupture, possibly by some foetal movement, or by some compara- tively slight external injury. Its occurrence during parturition is, unfortunately, not a mere pathological curiosity. According to the statistics of the Dublin accoucheurs, Drs. Collins and L larke, the average frequency is about one in five or six hundred hirths. The former met with thirty-four cases in 16,414 births, the latter had four cases-in 2,484 parturient females. INFLAMMATION OF THE UTERUS. Under this head wo have to consider inflammation of the lining * “ On the Removal of the Uterus in cases of Prolapsus and Inversion.' London. 1836.INFLAMMATION OF THE UTERUS. 777 membrane, of the muscular walls, and of tbe surrounding struc- tures. Independently of tbe puerperal state, it is at tbe period of menstruation that tbe uterus is most liable to all forms of inflammation. We shall first describe separately tbe non-puer- peral forms. Endometritis, or inflammation of tbe lining membrane, is the commonest form. It may be acute or chronic. Acute endometritis, or uterine catarrh, affects more especially the body and fundus of the uterus, the cervical portion being little altered. The mucous membrane appears deeply injected, swollen, velvety, and sometimes partly loosened. The glandular orifices appear prominent and open, the gland tubes themselves elongated. Minute haemorrhagic spots are sometimes seen. The vaginal por- tion of the uterus is also injected and swollen. The secretion is at first clear, afterwards purulent. The inflammation may spread to the Fallopian tubes or to the vagina, if it has not originated there. It often passes into a chronic form. Chronic endometritis, or catarrh, is a part of the affection com- monly known as leucorrhcea. It affects more especially the cer- vical portion, which does not appear injected, but shows an unusual number of ovula Nabothi, which are also enlarged and often become pedunculated, hanging down as minute polypi. The vaginal portion is enlarged, spongy, and shows a charac- teristic red granular surface. Ulceration of the oervix and os uteri often result from long-continued catarrh, and present an eaten, corroded appearance. Obstruction of the os internum or externum may also result. The discharge is either viscid, straw- colouied, and transparent, or else red, purulent, and even san- guinolent. Metritis, or inflammation of the substance of the uterus, inde- pendent of the puerperal state, is very rare. It may follow injury or irritation, or may result from the presence of new growths, or from other sources. The uterus swells, becomes softened, reddened, unusually succulent, and infiltrated with small extravasations There is always at the same time endometritis, the mucous mem- brane being swollen and softened. This acute metritis may spread to the peritoneal cavity of the uterus and of the neighbouring organs. In rare cases it is said that suppuration occurs, and abscesses are formed in the uterine walls. On the other hand, ' affection may result in complete resolution, or may pass into v chronic inflammation. Chronic metritis, according to Scanzoni, occurs in two stages (11 a stage of infiltration, or softening, with hypersemia; (2) a stage of thickening, or induration, accompanied by anaemia. The chronic : inflammation results from chronic congestion, induced by heart i disease as well as from acute disease. It is always accompanied by < chronic catarrh. ' Perimetritis is the name given to inflammation of the peritoneal covering of the uterus, which, as usually involving the neighbour-IXFLAMMATIOX OF THE UTERUS. T5S ing parts, may also be called pelvic peritonitis. It gives rise to the adhesions of the uterine and adjacent organs so often seen at post- mortem examinations. Parametritis is used to signify inflammation by the side of the uterus—that is to say, of the subperitoneal connective tissue, and corresponds to the older term pelvic cellulitis. It may lead to abscess or to simple chronic induration. It is chiefly important in post-puerperal conditions. Croupous, or Diphtheritic Inflammation.—In certain conditions faLse membranes, such as are seen in croup and diphtheria, are found on the uterine mucous membrane, chiefly as a secondary affection, in cases of typhus, cholera, the exanthemata, usually with similar affections of the vagina. Dysmenorrhvea Mtmbranacea.—False membranes forming a com- plete cast of the organ are sometimes thrown off, which must be carefully distinguished from those just mentioned. They are, in the words of Dr. Barnes, “ three-cornered bags, somewhat longer in one direction, having an irregular opening at each angle. The opening at the smaller end, which is wider than the others, corre- sponding to the os internum, the others with the ostia of the Fallo- pian tubes.” The membranes are rough ; on the outer surface they show ragged projections, corresponding to the uterine glands, the orifices of which are seen on the smooth inner surface. The mem- brane itself is composed of the epithelium, or nearly the whole mucous membrane of the uterus. These casts are thrown off during the menstrual period, with symptoms of dysmenorrhcea ; hence often accompanied by haemor- rhage. From its precise resemblance to the decidua of pregnancy, the membrane may be called a ‘‘menstrual decidua.” According to Dr. Barnes, a simply fibrinous membrane is sometimes expelled under the same circumstances. Some good examples of dysmenor- rhceal casts are in the Museum of St. Thomas’ Hospital. Ulceration.—Dr. T. Smith states that ulcers of the os uteri may be the primary result of inflammatory action, or arise from eruptive disorders of the mucous membrane, similar to herpes or eczema of the skin. But they more frequently result from the chronic irritation produced by the discharge from the cervix. This is confirmed by the fact that, except in eruptive disease, the os uteri is rarely found abraded, unless there is co-existent disease of the glandular portion of the cervix. Tubercular or scrofulous ulceratioTi produces deeper-seated destruction of its tissues: it gives rise to more profound ragged erosion on the surface and sides of the os, which, however, is not accompanied by that knotted induration which is generally characteristic of the carcinomatous ulcer. Nor is it marked by the same tendency to spread and involve adjoining parts in its destruction. In addition to the forms of ulceration already spoken of the uterus is subject to the specific ulcers of primary and secondary syphilis. Under the name of corroding ulcer, Dr. John ClarkeMORBID GROWTHS OF THE UTERUS. 739 has described a variety of destruction which differs from cancer only in not being accompanied by an indurated deposit. No account of the microscopic appearances of the part so affected is on record ; a link is therefore wanting to enable us to pronounce positively as to the nature of the disease. It is piobably a loim of “rodent ulcer,” called by the late Mr. C. Moore “rodent cancer,” and having marked affinities to epithelioma. The absence of induration, the cleanly cut margins of the sore, the want of fixation of the uterus, and the comparatively slow course of the disease, all tend to separate it pretty widely from the ordinary forms of cancerous ulceration. It is of very rare occur- rence ; Dr. Ashwell, in the course of an extensive practice cf twenty years, only twice met with it. ACCUMULATIONS IN THE UTERINE CAVITY. Uydrornetra.—The cavity of the uterus may become dilated by an accumulation of fluid within it. This occurs, independently of the accumulation of menstrual blood, in individuals past the climac- teric, in whom some catarrhal or other inflammatory condition exists, and is combined with obstruction of the orifice, usually of the os internum. In such cases mucus or pus may accumulate, and distend the uterus to a considerable size—not often larger than the fist—very rarely to the size of the pregnant uterus at full time. The walls are usually thin, and more fibrous than muscular; the mucous membrane atrophied and pale. The accumulated fluid undergoes, in time, considerable changes, and though it mav have beeu at first purulent or viscid, it becomes in the end watery and thin, sometimes colourless, sometimes yellow or brown. If the os externum be obstructed, both the body and cervical portion become dilated; either into one cavity, or if the os externum be also narrow, into an hour-glass shape. The obstruction of the orifices giving rise to this condition may be caused by inflammation, by cystic polypi of the cervix, by flexion, or by other causes. Hcematometra is the name given to accumulation of menstrual blood in the uterus, through congenital closure of the hymen, the external parts, or, more rarely, of the os externum or internum. The dilatation may be, especially in cases of imperforate hymen, very great indeed, at least equal to that of pregnancy. The relaxed blood becomes thick, black, and tarry. Physometra, or accumulation of air in the uterus, is sometimes observed after severe labours, as the result of decomposition of placental residues. MORBID GROWTHS—FIBRO-MUSCULAR TUMOURS AND POLYPI. The abnormal formations that most frequently present them- selves in the uterus are fibroid or fibro-muscular tumours; lheyMUSCULAR TUMOURS OF THE UTERUS. 71)0 occur imbedded in the texture of the organ, or protruding from it- inner surface in the cavity, or from some part of the external surface. When projecting into the cavity of the uterus thev Fig. 179. Fibro-muscular tumour projecting into tlie cavity of the uterus. (St. George’s Museum, 128.) receive the name of fibrous polypi. While imbedded in the uterine tissue they form glo- bular, white, glistening, dense, tumours; there may be only one, or they may be numerous. In preparation, No. 2,674, in the Royal College of Surgeons, we see a uterus, with from eight to nine large fibroid tumours in its walls, varying from one to four inches in dia- meter. In size they differ even more than in number; they are seen in every gradation, from that of a pin’s head to that of a melon. The prepa- ration spoken of further on is an instance of the great deve- lopment they attain. Dr. Lee mentions one weighing fifty- four pounds, which contained several cysts filled with fluid. The fibroid tumour is sur- rounded by a membrane which separates it from the uterine tissue, so that there is no very intimate union between the two structures. “The most usual position for these tumours,” according to Mr. Lee’s analysis of seventy-four cases, “ is the submucous, viz., those pro- jecting into the cavity of the womb, and the pedicles of these are gene- rally situated just below the openings of the Fallopian tubes. The next position in which they are most abundant is the posterior wall and fundus of the uterus; they are very rarely situated in the ante- rior wall, and still more rarely in the cervix uteri.” Of the gene- ral truthfulness of these remarks, every one may convince himself by glancing through one of the metropolitan museums of patho- logical anatomy. It appears that the nearer the original growth takes place to the mucous surface of the uterus, the more a gradual extension of the entire tumour into its cavity is likely to ensue. In this way we account for the gradual elongation of the pedicle, which after a time is the only connection between the tumour and its matrix; it may then be removed with comparative facility by operative procedure. The pedicle is not, however, a necessary consequence of the arrival of the fibroid tumour at the external surfaces. In one of the largest specimens which has come under our notice, (Royal College of Surgeons; No. 2,672) which is also remarkable as affecting the cervix exclusively, the remainder of theMUSCULAR TUMOURS OF THE UTERUS. 761 uterus continuing normal, we find no attempt at the formation of a pedicle; the tumour has evidently formed in the substance of the posterior part of the cervix the uterine tissue, which is still spread out over the upper part of the tumour as if embracing it. The tumour, in this case, is twelve inches long, by five inches thick, and presents the ordinary structure of fibrous tumours. The fibroid tumours found almost free in the ab- dominal cavity, or, at least, only attached to the uterus by cellular adhesions, probably have the same origin as the growths we have just con- sidered ; having been deve- loped in the first instance un- der the peritoneal investment of the uterus, they have sub- sequently become detached. This does not preclude the possibility of their being formed primarily, at the points where they are found. Minute Structure.—The in- timate structure of fibroid tumours varies in some re- spects ; to the naked eye it exhibits, at times, a concen- tric disposition of fibres; but moro commonly an irregular wavy appearance, without any uniformity of arrangement, presents itself, and it is more particularly in this case that cavities containing blood, a dark-coloured gelatinous fluid, ora clear serum, are formed, which give the tumour, on section, a resemblance to the sero-cystic disease of the testes or mamma. Occasionally the fibrous tumour presents a lobulated conformation. The micro- scopic appearances of the fibroid tumours of the uterus are not in accordance with what we should expect to find in a true fibrous structure. The microscope, in fact, demonstrates that they belong to an altogether different class of growths ; the fibrous appearance is scarcely perceptible under the microscope, which displays elon- gated nuclei, imbedded in an amorphous stroma. It appears to us that from the analogy they present to the genuine uterine tissue, in the unimpregnated state, we should be more disposed to class them with homologous than heterologous productions; that they and in its growth has separated Fig. 180. A uterus, the upper half of which is en- larged by the growth of numerous fibro- in uscular tumours in its walls. One tu- mour. larger than the rest, projects into the dilated upper part of the cavity of the uterus, and completely fills it. Five others are shown by the section imbedded in the anterior wall, and many others project on the external surface of the uterus. The lower half of the uterus is healthy, but elongated. The walls of the portion oc- cupied by the tumours are thick and laminated, like the walls of the uterus in pregnancy. (St. Bartholomew’s Museum, xxxii. 16.)MUSCULAR TUMOURS OF THE UTERUS. 762 t “ Med.-Chir. Trans.” vol. xxxiii. p. 199. should he regarded rather in a relation to the womb analogous to that of exostosis to the matrix it springs from, than of a character totally at variance with that of their nidus.* [The foregoing paragraph, with its accompanying note, have been left as they stood in the edition of this work published in 1854. It may be added here, that the views then expressed have been since abundantly confirmed by subsequent observers. Indeed, thin sections of these tumours, stained with carmine, show so distinctly the structure of bands of long spimile ceils of plain mus- cular tissue, with rod-shaped nuclei, crossing and recrossing, as in the uterus itself, that the name myoma is now given to these growths instead of the older term fibroid, which expressed less definitely their muscular nature.—Ed.] The amount of blood supplied to these muscular tumours varies. The majority are but scantily provided with vessels. Some, when injected, only exhibit one or two larger vessels traversing the substance of the mass; others exhibit considerable and uniform capillary injection, the vessels being distributed in the connective tissue. The haemorrhage to which fibroid growths of the uterus may give rise is not owing to a laceration of these vessels, but to the irritation and congestion they induce in the superincumbent mucous membrane, which, from the same cause, may ulcerate and slough. When complicating pregnancy, they induce” htemon-hage, by preventing the normal development of the organ ; hence they 'are very apt to give rise to miscarriages. Fortunately for the indi- viduals, they are often a cause of barrenness. These tumours are usually of very slow growth, sometimes in the course of ten or twelve years reaching the size of a melon, and in rare instances attaining enormous dimensions. Specimens are on record weighing forty-four and even seventy-one pounds, and blocking with their great bulk a considerable portion of the abdomen. They often, however, remain quiescent for many years, and they are prone to undergo the degenerative changes common to all morbid growths. Thus they may be the seat of extensive- fatty degeneration, or of calcareous infiltration, or of mucoid softening into irregular cysts, forming the fibro-cystic tumour of the uterus. An excellent example of one of these tumours which has undergone calcareous degeneration to a very marked degree is preserved in the Museum of the Middlesex Hospital. It was removed by Mr. J. Moncrieff Amottt from the body of an old lady, who, having died at the age of seventy-two, from the effects of a fall, was found to have a tumour, weighing five pounds, and as hard as marble, in the * Since the above was written, a corroboration of the view expressed has been pub- lished in the “ Report of the Pathological Society for 1853,” p/219. Dr. Bristowe. in an elaborate paper on the subject of fibrous tumours of the uterus, concludes, from his examinations of them in the impregnated and unimpregnated conditions, that all so- c.tiled fibrous tumours of the uterus—at least in their earlier stages, before degenera- tion has taken place in them—are essentially muscular tumours ; not simply fibrous tumours with a greater or less quantity of muscular fibre mixed up with them, but developments of true and undoubted muscular tissue.763 MUCOUS AND GLANDULAR POLYPI. uterine parietes, which had become converted into a mere mem- brane. The tumour had been diagnosed as scirrhus when she was at the age of forty. It was found on analysis to contain nearly two-thirds of phosphate of lime. Clinically it is found convenient to distinguish certain varieties of muscular tumours of the uterus according to the precise part of the uterine wall in which they appear. Thus, those on the outer surface—sub-peritoneal; those lying imbedded in the thicknes sof the wall—parietal; those projecting somewhat into the cavity—sub- mucous ; and the further stage of this last, when the growth swings by a pedicle into the uterine cavity—fibroid polypus, have all special habits of growth, and are attended with special symptoms. The first, sub-peritoneal, usually attain the largest size, and the last, polypi, interfere most gravely with the uterine function, giving rise to haemorrhage, and occasionally being spontaneously expelled by the uterus, which hypertrophies for the purpose, as in preg- nancy ; whilst the parietal tumours not unfrequently play an im- portant part in the production of the flexions noted on a previous page. But, pathologically, all are alike overgrowths, more or less cir- cumscribed, of the normal uterine tissue, and are subject to the same periodical change of bulk, at the same time having an inde- pendent tendency to continuous growth, and a liability to the various degenerative processes common to all new formations. So perfect is the muscular structure of these tumours before de- generation has set in, that they are capable of spontaneous contrac- tion and relaxation, as has been observed by Virchow and others. Dr. Barnes has described (St. Thomas’s Hospital Reports, 1871) a form of polypus under the name of hypertrophic polypus. This growth is a pedunculated mass of plain muscular tissue, usually of small size, and often multiple, springing from within the greatly hypertrophied neck of the so-called “prolapsed” uterus, and causing the hremorrhage which not unfrequently complicates these cases. Fibro-museular tumours have not been observed before puberty. Dr. Lee agrees with the statements made by Bayle, that they are most frequent in virgins, and that they exist in twenty out of a hundred middle-aged women. MUCOUS AND GLANDULAR POLYPI. Besides the pendulous myomata, or fibro-museular growths, which are the commonest form of uterine polypi, there are certain soft, succulent growths which occasionally project into the cavity of the uterus or its mouth, either sessile or with long slender pedicles, and which are obviously overgrowths or outgrowths from the mucous lining of the organ, and very different from the solid fleshy tumours just described.761 UTERINE CYSTS. These softer—and, for the most part, much smaller—masses correspond to the jelly-like polypi met with in the nose, and con- sist almost wholly of altered mucous membrane. lienee theymav present the characters of myxoma, the sub-mucous connective being actively developed, and its interstices filled with clear viscid fluid, the whole being invested with a delicate epithelial layer; or. the glandular portion of the mucous membrane being the' special Seat of the hypertrophic change, a soft vascular tumour is formed whose structure is made up almost entirely of gland tissue, ducts, and their terminal dilatations, regularly lined with epithelium, and connected by more or less delicate bands of fine fibrous tissue, in which the vessels are distributed. To this last class belongs the “ channelled polypus ” of Dr. Oldham, described as made up of several long channels, with occasional communications between them, and opening by large orifices on the free surface of the growth. A third variety is formed by the expansion of the glandular crypts after obstruction of their ducts, and these tumours are more distinctly vesicular or cystic, the tiny spheres being distended with the accumulated mucous or other secretion, seldom attaining any large size, and as rarely becoming pedunculated. The “ ovula Nabothi,” or firm clear vesicles in the os and cervix uteri, belong to this class. The symptoms caused by the presence of these succulent polypi are of course far less important than those attending the larger fleshy growths; they can hardly interfere with parturition, but the haemorrhage to which they frequently give rise may render opera- tive interference necessary for their removal. UTERINE CYSTS. . Cystic, growths are extremely rare in the uterus. Certain cases are on record, however, in which the cystic transformation already mentioned, affecting muscular tumours of the uterus, proceeds to such an extent as to make the cyst development the leading feature of the case, and such tumours,have derived a grave importance of late from their close simulation of ovarian dropsy. In almost all the instances of attempted removal of the tumour under this supposition, death has resulted. An interesting example of this cystic tumour of the uterus was brought to the Pathological Society of London in 1867 by Mr. Isaac B. Brown. The tumour in this case—which is sufficiently typical for brief narration here— weighed eight pounds and a half after some pints of thin, clear fluid had been removed from an enormous cyst in its substance, and it sprang from the body and neck of the uterus, having been evolved out of the substance of these parts. The wall of the cavity, and a large fleshy projection into its midst, were made up for the most part of fibro-muscular tissue, more or less closely resemblingf TUBERCLE OE THE UTERUS. 765 the tissue of the uterus itself; hat, together with this, forming a structure resembling the pancreas, was a certain amount of cell- growth, grouped in small masses, and suggesting glandular tissue. Many irregular cysts communicated freely in all directions, giving rise to the large cavity already mentioned, which contained upwards of four pints of fluid, and these cysts appeared to have been formed by the accumulation of fluid in the spaces of the loose fibroid structure. The diagnosis of these rare growths is necessarily beset with the greatest difficulty, the chief points of diagnostic importance being the slow growth of the tumour. When a preliminary incision has once been made through the abdominal wall, the dark colour of the presenting tumour, and the thin, often blood-stained, fluid escaping through the trocar, instead of the usual viscid ovarian fluid, are mentioned by Spencer Wells as additional evidence of the supposed ovarian cyst being really uterine. True hydatid tumour of the uterus is extremely rare, although occasionally small hydatid cysts with their characteristic structure have passed per vaginam from an intra-abdominal growth. Hydro-metra and hcemato-metra, or collections of fluid or blood within the dilated uterus, are now and then met with, associated with some form of occlusion of the uterine mouth, or with the graver varieties of flexion; but such cases would be readily dis- tinguished from fibro-cystic tumours. TUBERCLE OP THE UTERUS. Tubercular disease in the uterus affects chiefly the lining mem- brane, where we find the whole mucous surface covered with a layer of soft cheesy, or white putty-like material, sometimes almost puriform, and even in sufficient quantity moderately to distend the uterine cavity. In this state it is often very difficult to demonstrate the presence of tubercles or of anything beyond degeneratiye inflam- mation of the mucous membrane; and in the cases which have fallen under the observation of the editor no tubercles were seen in the uterus, though in some cases present on the serous surface. In other cases, however, they may be present on the mucous mem- brane, either before the degenerative process has gone so far, or under the layer of degenerated caseous material. In early stages of the disease the surface is described as covered with grey miliary tubercles. Under the caseous mass, in advanced cases, the uterine substance is found infiltrated and partially destroyed. Other parts of the organ show hypertrophy, whether fibrous or muscular we cannot say, but probably the former. The disease especially affects the fundus, and is almost always bounded by the os internum. Destruction of the wall and perforation into the peritoneum may occur, but are rare. y The uterine disease is most usually associated with a similarCANCER OF THE UTERUS. 766 * “ Mcd.-Ckir. Trans.” vol. xxii. p. 267. affection of the Fallopian tubes, and sometimes spreads from these. Very rarely it extends to the ceiwix uteri and vagina. Almost always there is tubercular disease of other organs also, but in some cases not. The affection is comparatively rare. Louis found three cases out of 200 phtliisical women. Syphilitic tumours havo been in one case seen in the substance of the vaginal portion of the uterus ; syphilitic ulcers or chancres are more commonly seen there, and sometimes syphilitic condylomata or papillary growths. Lardaceous degeneration of the uterus has been observed. The organ was enlarged, pale, and translucent. CANCER OP THE UTERUS. Cancer of the uterus is a disease of frequent occurrence. Dr. Lever* has shown that the proportion of cancer to other uterine affections is as one to seven, or about thirteen per cent. The period of life most obnoxious to it is that between the fortieth and fiftieth years; and though numerous examples are met with earlier in life, the statement of Boivin and Duges, that in 409 cases they found twelve under twenty years of age, can scarcely be credited, unless, as we are assured by Dr. Walshe, uterine cancer is more prevalent in the French than in our own capital. The analysis of their cases yields the following table :— Dnder 20 years of age . 12 cases. Between 20 and 30 . • 83 „ „ 34 „ 40 . • 102 „ ,, 40 „ 50 . • 201 „ ,, 50 „ 71 . . 11 „ They attribute a great share in the causation to sexual excesses, but this view is now generally given up. Celibacy does not appear to favour its development; the ratio, according to Dr. Lever’s analysis, is: single women, 5-83 per cent.; widows, 7'5 per cent.; and married females, S6-6 per cent. This is found to be identical wdth the relative frequency of other uterine affections in their respective classes. The increased activity of the uterus and its frequent changes of nutrition, occasioned by multiple parturitions, seem to exercise a definite influence on the production of cancer, for Mr. Sibley’s and Dr. Tanner’s statistics both show air excess above the average in the number of children borne by women after- wards the subjects of uterine cancer. In the one set of cases this increase amounted to thirty per cent, over the average fruitfulness of all marriages, and in the other set the families averaged two and a half children more than usual. As a rule, the cervix or os uteri is the part first affected, aT67 CANCER OE TIIE UTERUS. feature which broadly distinguishes this disease from fibroid growths. A very remarkable exception is presented in a specimen of cancer of the body and fundus uteri in St. George’s Hospital Museum, in which the cervix is entirely free from disease (No. 134). Irregular thickening and induration of the os and cervix with deep fissures may be the result of chronic inflammation and laceration, and as this is a curable affection, it is important to distinguish it. It is to be noted that in this form of deformity of the os uteri, the fissures radiate around the os, the lobes so formed being quite smooth, free from nodulation and from ulceration. On the other hand, in early stages of malignant disease, the mucous membrane of the os and cervix is studded with irregular hard tubercles, or a single knotty growth is present, the covering membrane being of a livid blue or crimson colour, and glued to the parts beneath. The occurrence of a roughly excavated ulcer on a hard base, and ac- companied with much surrounding induration, and some fixation of the uterus, renders the more dreaded diagnosis pretty certain. The advance of the growth and the concomitant subjective symp- toms, the fusion and ulceration, the implication of the surrounding parts in the process, the fixation of the womb, and the rigid nodu- lated degeneration of the vaginal mucous membrane, together with sanguineous foetid discharge, soon enable us to form a positive opinion if the disease be malignant. The disease spreads more or less rapidly to the adjoining parts ; to the vagina, the rectum, and the other pelvic viscera, the whole being matted together in extreme cases, and presenting a frightful spectacle of disorganization and cancerous destruction. The ulcer- ation that leads to this result, while it gives rise to foetid vaginal discharges, causes very extensive loss of substance of the parts first involved; the vaginal portion of the uterus, and the vagina itself, are the first to be eroded, and gradually communications are esta- blished between the various abdominal organs; the destructive character of the affection nowhere manifesting itself with the viru- lence that it here exhibits. All this havoc is what we might reasonably expect to ensue from the presence of any morbid infil- tration leading to rapid cell growth and early decay in a free mucous surface abundantly supplied by vessels and in constant friction against an opposed mucous surface. No matter what the special anatomical cell-growth, such irritation would be certain to sot up inflammatory processes in its immediate neighbourhood, and the free secretions of both uterus and vagina tainted by so grave an irritant would speedily cause the spread of such malignant destruc- tion in the manner commonly witnessed. This uniformity of the destructive process in growths widely differing in their anatomical structure, when attacking the os and cervix uteri, has been pointed out by Mr. Henry Arnott, * in a review of 136 cases of uterine cancer noted by him in the Middle- • “Cases illustrating Certain Points in the Pathology of Cancer of the Uterus ” by Henry Arnott, “Trans. Path. Soc.,” vol. xxi. p. 281, et seep768 CANCER OF THE UTERUS. sex Hospital, in fifty-seven of which he confirmed, the diagnosis by post-mortem examination. The same writer has drawn atten- tion to the wide discrepancies met with in the accounts by various authors of the form of cancer usually present in the uterus. Quoting several distinguished authorities he shows how contradictory are their statements on this head. Lebert, for example, finding epi- thelioma in only six out of forty-five cases, whilst Forster—an equally eminent observer—discovered forty-two instances of epi- thelioma in fifty-two cases of uterine cancer. The form of cancer most often encountered in the uterus is probably carcinoma, such as commonly attacks the female breast, but the alveolar stroma is rarely well developed in this position. Far oftener the firm white infiltration is found to be made up of densely aggregated cells of very various sizes and shapes, grouped into irregular clusters by an open, delicate fibrous stroma, or infil- trated amongst the uterine tissues. Epithelioma is, however, very frequently met with—not, indeed, in the characteristic form of “ cauliflower excrescence,” which is a comparatively rare pheno- mena, but occurring as a ragged ulceration, whose white friable base is found to consist largely of squamous (in rare instances columnar) epithelial cells, rapidly proliferating in the deeper uterine tissue, and occasionally even presenting the well-known “bird’s- nest” bodies. Sarcoma, either spindle or round-cell, is also liable to attack the uterus, and to affect the cervix, and spread thence just as do the other forms of malignant cell-growth. According to Gusserow, sarcoma is more apt to invade the fundus than the cervix, and he states, indeed, that it alone does attack this portion of the organ. We have ourselves, however, seen two cases of spindle-cell sar- coma commencing in the cervix and running the usual course; whilst we have more than once found detached nodules of carci- noma lying in the uterine wall at a distance from this position; and we once examined the body of a woman whose uterus was wholly destroyed by distinct carcinoma, excepting the os. which was quite free. Glusserow also states that the soft infiltrating growth met with at rare intervals attacking the mucous membrane lining the uterine cavity, the os remaining free, is a variety of round-cell sarcoma. According to this observer, pain is a symptom complained of much earlier in sarcoma than in carcinoma or epithelioma of the uterus, from the stretching of the uterine tissues around the imbedded nodule, and the consequent lesion of the fine nervous filaments. Some authors describe mixed forms of sarcoma and carcinoma. Owing to the very rapid destruction which always accompanies malignant disease of the uterus, the disintegrating cancer material crumbling away in gangrenous sheds and melting into the foetid vaginal discharge, and to the almost constant inflammatory changes which run a simultaneous course, it is often extremely difficult to make out the minute structure of the disease. AotCANCER OF TIIE UTERES. 7C9 seldom the sloughing action spreads beyond the line of new growth, and after death considerable portions of vagina and uterus are found softened, green, and sloughing. The tendency to affection of the lymphatic glands, and to the occurrence of secondary growths in remote parts of the body, has for the most part escaped the detailed notice of writers on the sub- ject. In Mr. Arnott’s fifty-seven cases of autopsies of uterine i cancer already referred to, the lymphatic glands were involved in twenty cases, and in eleven the viscera contained secondary ; growths. His observations seem to show that these multiple foci oi disease are far more common in carcinoma and sarcoma, although in the later stages of epithelioma the glands may occasionally s suffer. Besides these ordinary varieties of uterine cancer, papilloma of the mucous membrane of the os and cervix may be met with, the i normal papillae becoming greatly hypertrophied with thickened I layers of investing epithelium, but without any infiltration of the ‘ epithelial elements amongst the deeper tissues. We have seen also a general villous condition of the linino- mucous membrane formiug soft vegetations projecting into the ' caT1.^ °* the uterus, and showing under the microscope branching ] papulae of connective tissue clothed with columnar and sometimes * exfoliated epithelium. ■ i, ^though uterine cancer is commonly primary, secondaiy nodules, : both ot sarcoma and carcinoma, may spring up in the uterus, the j primary tumour being in other and remote parts of the body. In t these cases the nodules are usually imbedded in the fundus or ; project from its peritoneal surface. We have seen also an instance ot well-marked colloid cancer invading the fundus of the uterus .from an adjacent wide-spread colloid of the peritoneum.CHAPTER XLII. AI3N0RMAD CONDITIONS OF THE OVA KIES AND MAHjI/E. THE OVARIES. Congenital Malformations.—No instance is known of excess in number of the ovaries, but they are sometimes congenitally large, and. then show an excess of fibrous tissue. They are hardly ever found deficient, except when the uterus is wanting also, but sometimes when this is only rudimentary. One ovary is some- times wanting when a bicornute uterus is deficient on the same side. Rudimentary development of the organs is indicated by the want of follicles or their rudiments. Their condition is usually accompanied by the want of sexual character, and by imperfect development of the other generative organs. The imperfection is sometimes unilateral. Displacement of the ovaries is seen in ovarial hernia, where the gland Res in a pouch of intestine, outside the abdominal wall, like a hernial sac. Sometimes the pouch resembles the inguinal canal of the male, and we have an inguinal ovarial hernia. In celebrated case, a double hernia of this kind existed, and both ovaries were removed by operation, with the result, as is well known, of stopping menstruation and aboRshing the female physi- cal characters. As the result of chronic or repeated inflammation, adhesions are often found by which the ovaries are fixed in abnormal situa- tions ; more especially are they found, tied down, behind the uterus. Connection of the Ovaries with Menstruation.—The ovaries of children, who have never menstruated, are perfectly smooth. But after puberty, and when menstruation has occurred, accompanied by the rupture of Graafian vesicles, the surface becomes marked with puckered scars, surrounded by pigmentation. Hence, generally speaking, a perfectly smooth surface is evidence that menstruation has uot taken place. Klob, however, quotes m-ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF TIIE OVARIES. 771 stancos to show that scars may entirely disappear. In the ovaries of older persons the scars become very numerous, and the whole ovary acquires a wrinkled appearance; and there is at the same time wasting of the organ. This wasted and shrivelled appearance must not be regarded as morbid. If death take place during menstruation, the ovary is found turgid and vascular, injected on its surface; and showing the changes due to ovulation, now to be described. Corpus Lute urn.—It is necessary to be acquainted with the ordinary form of the scar left by a ruptured Graafian follicle, both when it is followed and when it is not followed by im- pregnation. In the latter case, when ovulation has just taken place, a cavity is found, some three-eighths of an inch in diameter, containing blood, fluid or coagulated. A variable quantity escapes through the rupture in the follicle, but some remains, and from this, with a growth from the follicular walls, the corpus luteum is formed. The blood goes through the changes already indicated, it becomes decolorized, probably softens into a pulp, and ultimately nothing may remain but some fibrous material, blood crystals, and pigment granules. The follicular wall simultaneously goes through changes of a proliferative kind, and forms a yellow or brownish zone, some half a line thick, often with a crenulated outline. This undergoes rapid fatty degeneration, and is ultimately absorbed with the remains of the blood, so that nothing remains but a whitish scar, with some pigmentation. This process of evolution may be nearly complete within the month. If impregnation follow, the active flow of blood to the uterine organs causes the proliferative process to be much more energetic. A yellow zone, some three lines broad, is formed, so deeply folded or crenated as to have been compared to a leaf; within which is the altered blood clot, surrounded on all sides, except at the ruptured orifice. The whole may, at the maximum, measure eleven lines in diameter, and, even at the end of pregnancy, from three to six lines. The process of evolution is accordingly’by no means complete, even after nine months. Abnormal Evolution.—Sometimes a subsequent or secondary haemorrhage takes place into the corpus luteum. Sometimes a sort ■ of cyst is formed. Eokitansky has described the formation of the ■ species of fibrous tumour from the scar, and in one case it has 1 formed the starting point of cancer. A papillary growth from the corpus luteum, projecting as a dendritic protrusion through the ) rent in the follicle, has also been observed. Hcemorrharjc. —The normal escape of blood from ovulation mav . be excessive, and the Graafian follicle may be distended to the size of a nut, a hen’s egg, or even more. If the excess of blood flow into the peritoneum, it produces one form of Retrouterine Ucematocele, or accumulation of blood in Douglas’s pouch- but Ahis maybe derived from other sources. Sometimes, in youn- -girls, the haemorrhage may produce laceration of the substance ofCYSTIC DISEASE OF THE OVARIES. the ovary, or ovarian apoplexy. Hemorrhage may occur quite independently of menstruation, even in infants; there is, then, no discharge into a Graafian follicle. This condition has been observed in purpura htemorrhagica and in some fevers. IYTLA1I.MATIOX OF THE OVARIES. hinny of the symptoms referred to inflammation of the ovaries during life are probably due to mere congestion, which produces hyperesthesia. True inflammation, however, may occur, and this either in the puerperal state or independently of it. The former will be discussed hereafter. Non-puerperal inflammation, or Oophoritis, may, according to Klob,* be either follicular or parenchymatous. In the former the follicles are swollen, filled with serous or purulent fluid and detached masses of the lining membrane (membrana granulosa); it leads to the destruction of the inflamed follicles, but no other important result. It is always confined to one ovary. In the parenchymatous form, which may be combined with that just mentioned, the stroma of the organ is affected, the ovary appears much swollen, vascular, and oodematous ; and on section the follicles are scarcely visible. It leads to considerable destruction of the follicles, and may occur simultaneously on both sides. It is always accompanied by some inflammation of the peritoneal surface. This form of inflammation, especially if combined with the follicular form, may result in suppuration, though this is rare. More frequently it passes away, leaving behind it some induration and adhesion of the ovary to neighbouring parts, or may pass into a chronic form. The right ovary is far more frequently affected than the left (Klob). CYSTIC DISEASE OF THE OVARIES. The production of cysts in the ovary is a subject of great com- plexity and importance. On the one hand, a certain form of cyst- production is so common as to be of no practical importance, and almost to be regarded as normal; while, on the other hand, cystic growths may be among the largest and most formidable growths to which the body is liable. We must, accordingly, endeavour to classify the cases, that they may be conveniently discussed, under the following heads:—(1) Simple, or Unilocular Cysts; (2) Tubo-ovarian Cysts; (3) Compound, or Multiloeular Cysts; and (4) Dermoid Cysts. 1. Simple, or Unilocular Cysts.—There is no doubt that these arise from enlargement of the Graafian follicles. It may not be super- * “ Dio Palhologische Anatomic der Weiblicheu Sexual Organe,” A ien, ISOl a work to which we must specially acknowledge our obligations.CYSTIC DISEASE OF THE OVARIES. 773 fluous to recall the fact that the Graafian follicle is itself a cyst, lined by a cylindrical epithelium, called the Membrana Granulosa, which is accumulated at one point into a granular mass (discus proligerus), containing the ovum. The follicle further contains a transparent albuminous fluid, called the liquor folliculi, the increase of which constitutes cystic enlargement. Waldeyer * believes this liquid to be continually added to by the disintegra- tion of the follicular epithelium. It is worth noting, that the size of the mature follicle is ten to twelve millimetres = three-eighths of an inch in diameter. Simple cysts of this kind are met with in the foetal ovary, and subsequently at all ages. As the dilatation increases the ovum perishes, but has been still demonstrated in cysts, the size of a bean or of a cherry, by Eokitansky and Eitchie. Several cysts are often found in the same ovary, but naturally the largest are those which occur singly. The larger cysts are liued by a simple pavement-epithelium. Their con- tents are either clear albuminous fluid, or the same variously coloured by the admixture of blood. The walls are, of course, much thicker than those of a normal follicle. Simple cysts are usually small, and rarely larger than a hen’s egg; but instances as large as the fist, or still larger, are described. They often occur in both ovaries at once. The cause of their production is unknown, but they may occur quite independently of menstruation. Fig. 181. Incipient cyst formation. The ovary is represented of the normal size. Another variety of simple cyst is that proceeding from a trans- formation of the corpus luteum, as first traced by Eokitansky. In such a case the wall of the cyst is lined by a layer of soft material, thicker than itself, and somewhat loosely attached, inCYSTIC DISEASE OF THE OVARIES. 774 which may he recognized the remains of the yellow portion of the corpus luteurn. 2. Tubo-Ovarian Cysts are also developed from a follicle rup- tured at menstruation, hut from one to which the fimbriated extremity of the Fallopian tube has become adherent. The ovarial portion of the cyst is lined by a yellow or brownish zone, repre- senting the corpus luteurn, which becomes continuous with the wall of the tube. Only a portion of this, about the outer third usually, participates in the cyst-formation, and the enlargement is not considerable. 3. Compound, or Multiloculnr Cysts ; Cystoid Disease of the Ovary. —The formation of these cysts is much more difficult to explain, and their relation to the simple cysts is uncertain. Before dis- cussing the numerous theories which have been framed to account for them, we must endeavour to describe the various forms in which they occur. These are the structures which usually give rise to “ ovarian dropsy,” hut similar symptoms may be produced by the simple cysts, if very large. Fig. 1S2. A mullilocular ovarian cyst, removed from a female, aged twenty-nine, during htc, by Mr. J. B. Brown. Septa form larger compartments, in which tlici'e is a secondan and tertiary growth of cysts. The tumour weighed 11 lbs. 3 oz. The following account is chiefly taken from Klob :— (a.) There may he one large, thick-walled cyst, in whose walls are contained smaller cysts, the shape of which is so modified by the presence of the large cavity, that they appear as if they had been formed by a splitting uo of—or at least in the thickness of—the wall of the main cyst. In other cases we find a cyst, the inner wall of which shows partitions, which either project boldlyCYSTIC DISEASE OF THE OYABIES. I I o into the cavity, or else are attached to the wall in the form of crescentic folds, or else are more or less flattened against the wall and adherent to it. It is plain that in such a specimen the large cavity has arisen from the confluence of several smaller ones, the walls of which have become reduced to incomplete partitions. These may again be reduced to mere bands crossing the cavity, and inserted into a part of the wall which, by its thickness, shows its original compound character. (6.) A second form of compound cyst is that in which we find, on the inner wall of the larger cyst, an immense number of small cavities, sometimes arranged in groups, with very thin walls, con- taining either clear serous fluid, or else gelatinous, honey-like matter. A group of such smaller cysts sometimes projects from a single point in the inner wall of the larger, forming by absorption of the partitions a reticulated structure, containing pellucid or gelatinous fluid. Such a mass may, in great part, fill the larger cyst; and it is thought that, by completely filling it, the reticu- lated appearance of some large cysts is produced. Again, a single secondary cyst may, in like manner, grow out from the wall of the primary till it completely fills it. As this secondary cyst may be affected in the same way, of course great complexity may lesult. Papillary excrescences sometimes grow from the wall of the cyst, and project into the interior. The papillary terminations may be either solid, or themselves cystic. These growths may completely fill the cyst, and even rupture its wall, and project into the peritoneal cavity. The wall of the original cyst may then be found at the base, or peduncle, of the papillary growth, but may be quite insignificant when compared with the luxuriant development of the latter. Dr. Wilson Fox attributes to the union and fusion of such papillary outgrowths the formation of secondary cysts. (c.) In the above-mentioned variations one cyst preponderates over the others, or seems to have been formed primarily ; but in other cases there is a more uniform development of several, so that it appears a section made of many cavities nearly equal in size, the partitions of which may be more or less fused, and showing in their walls the development of new cysts. This appearance forms a transition to a still more uniform arrangement, when the whole of the ovary is found transformed into a multiiocular structure, with very numerous closed spaces, mostly minute, not larger than a hemp-seed, containing fluid or gelatinous matter. This change usually affects both ovaries, does not go to an excessive size, and was formerly called alveolar degeneration of the ovary. The above-mentioned appearances are by no means exclusive of one another. They may occur simultaneously, and by their com- bination produce an infinite variety and complexity of appearance in ovarian cysts—which is heightened by such variations as are ob- viously possible—in size, thickness of the walls, and so forth. Contents of the Cysts.—In some cases this is clear, serous fluid, colourless or yellow ; from this all transitions are found, up to thickCYSTIC DISEASE OF THE OVARIES. 77G gelatinous matter, and even more solid colloid material. The fluids always contain albumen and modifications of it, called paralbumen and metalbumen ; also a fibrinogenous substance, like many serous effusions. The above characters also belong to the fluid of simple cysts. The thick, viscid, and gelatinous matters often found in compound cysts are of different chemical constitution, containing mucin ; but whether this is the real constituent of the former coh loid masses is still uncertain. These matters are coloured, yellow, brown, or green, in various shades, probably by an admixture of blood. Cholesterine is sometimes found, and also much detached epithelium. Size of Ovarian Cysts.—As is well known, these form some of the largest tumours ever known in the human body. Specimens weighing 40 or 50 pounds have often been met with. Klob men- tions one of 150 and another of 196 (German) pounds in weight, which is perhaps the largest tumour ever described, except the fatty tumour before mentioned (p. 139). Structure of the Walls.—This point is very important, as it is thought to contain the key to the formation of ovarian cysts. The walls are composed essentially of connective tissue similar to that of the stroma of the ovary, in which are contained very frequently minute cysts, either visible to the naked eye or under the microscope. With these are seen indications of the Graafian follicles or similar structures, which are, as some think, wasting and gradually being destroyed; according to others, there are many still in a rudimen- tary stage. Further are structures which many observers regard as the commencement of minute cysts, viz., in the words of Forster, collections of roundish or oval cells, closely pressed toge- ther, in the midst of the connective tissue. Some of these are in a state of colloid degeneration, and thus form the contents of a microscopic cyst. The outer cells show transition to epithelium and a fibrous sac. Masses of developing connective tissue, or sarcoma-like structure, are often seen.* Another structure to which much importance has been attached is that of glandular tissue, i.e., epithelial cells in a tubular form. This tissue is very abundant in certain ovarian tumours, which have been called adenomatous, or glandular. No similar tissue is seen in the mature, healthy ovary, but in the course of the develop- ment glandular tubes, described by Pfliiger, appear to be steps in the formation of the Graafian follicles. This glandular tissue is seen to pass into a state of colloid degeneration, or to produce col- loid substance; so that it is believed the colloid masses in compound cysts may be formed in this way, and that all transitions may be found up to the largest cavities. Theory of the Formation of Compound Cysts.— From what has been said, it will be seen that all observers regard the minute cysts * Figured by Mr. Arnolt in Dr. Barnes* “ Diseases of Women,” p 321.CHANGES OP COMPOUND CYSTS. formed in the wall of the larger ones as giving the explanation of cyst formation. No recent investigator (except Klob) regards these as Graafian follicles; that is, supposes that compound are formed in the same way as simple cysts. Dr. Wilson Fox thinks that the primary cyst is an enlarged Graafian follicle, hut that the secondary cysts are formed in its walls by different processes, chiefly by a kind of papillary growth ; also by the transforma- tion of rudimentary glandular follicles, and by free cyst production in the connective tissue. Forster regards it as a process of cyst formation in connective tissue. Klebs (with whom Waldeyer and other recent German investigators agree) derives the secondary cysts fiom the residue of fcetal glandular structure, and therefore places the formative process in the latter part of fcetal life, and connects them with the glandular tumours before referred to; so that he gives a compound ovarian cystic tumour the name of adenoma ci/lindro-cellulare nysticum. Dr. Ritchie contends for the participa- tion of the ovum. These theories we cannot discuss. CHANGES OF COMPOUND CYSTS. Suppuration not unfrequentlv occurs, and sometimes causes per- foration of the wall, followed by peritonitis; or it may open on the outer surface of the body. Twisting of the pedicle sometimes occurs, and may produce little effect but often leads to inflammation or, by obstructing the vessels, to atrophy. Wasting, accompanied by thickening of the contents, or even complete solidification, may occur spontaneously. The wall may become calcified. Combinations of compound cystoid tumours with cancer, or with sarcoma, or with dermoid cysts, sometimes occur. Dermoid, or Cutaneous Cysts; Proliferative Cysts.—The general characters of these cysts have been already described (p. 157). They are far more common in the ovaries than elsewhere, two- thirds to four-fifths of all the known cases having occurred in these organs. They are generally, if not always simple, and for the most part solitary. The inner wall seems always, to be formed by a structure precisely resembling epidermis, having flattened cells in the more superficial, and round cells in the deeper layers. This stratum rests upon a connective tissue structure, resembling the cutis, which is often elevated into papillce irregularly arranged ; outside all is often an investment of fatty tissue, like the panniculus adiposus. Inserted in the skin are hairs completely formed, seba- ceous glands attached to their bulbs, and further sudoriparous glands. Teeth are often contained in great numbers—more than 100 have been counted—and either grow in the unaltered wall or else are imbedded in bony sockets. Bone is also sometimes found, both in the fibrous wall and detached, never having any real resein-778 CHANGES OF COMPOUND CYSTS. blance to any actual bone of the skeleton. The remaining contents of the cysts are tallowy or crystalline fat, with cholesterine, detached epidermic scales, and hairs. The fatty matter is doubtless secreted by the sebaceous glands. It will be observed that all these pro- ducts except bone belong to the epidermis, but in a very few rare cases other tissues, as striped muscle and nerve tissue, have been observed; as, indeed, has also been the case in some dermoid cysts from other parts. These cysts are liable to inflammation and rupture, sometimes discharging externally, or else into the vagina or rectum. Origin of Dermoid Cysts.—The explanation of these growths is confessedly one of the obscurest chapters in pathology. When occurring in the ovary, they were at one time regarded as the remains of an imperfectly-formed foetus—a view plainly untenable, since they have occurred before menstruation; or, again, as the inclusion of a second foetus within the body of the first, which is an unsupported hypothesis. Generally later pathologists have con- cluded that they must be in some way a result of the normal productivity of the ovaries, exercised without impregnation, in an altogether abnormal way, the process being compared some- times to the generation by which lower forms of animal life increase, or more specifically to parthenogenesis. If these tumours never occurred in other parts of the body, this theory would at least indicate the direction in which an explanation should be sought, but no one would attribute a genetic function to the skin or the mediastinum. It appears to us that a far more hopeful suggestion is that originally made by Dr. Wilson Fox, to the effect that these cysts will be found to arise by the same laws as the ordinary compound cystoid tumours. This comparison, at that time unsupported by observations, has been confirmed by the few cases of simultaneous occurrence of dermoid and compound cysts, especially by a remarkable case described by Flesch, and others adduced by that writer.* Cancer of the ovary may be either primary or secondary. Primary cancer usually occurs in a form not distinctly scirrhous or medullary, but either, like many cancers of internal organs, of an intermediate hardness, or else showing a different consistency in different parts. It is very often indeed combined with cysts, either simple or compound. We have seen one case of combination of cancer and a dermoid cyst. In the softer forms it grows rapidly, and may form a tumour as large as a child’s or a man’s head. It comparatively rarely ulcerates, and does not show a very marked tendency to attack the neighbouring organs, though it may form inflammatory adhesions. Not unfrequently it occurs in both ovaries at once. Hard, scirrhous-like forms are very rare. In such specimens as we have examined, we have found a distinct alveolar • Wilson Fox, “ Medico-Chi rare:. Transactions,” rol. xlvii. 1S64. Flesch, “ Wilrz- burger Verhnndlungen,” vol. iii. Heft 2, 1872. See albo “Trans. Path. Soc.,” vol. xviii. p. 190.779 ABNORMAL CONDITION'S OF THE FALLOPIAN TUBES. structure, with cells of epithelial aspect, such as has been described in the first part of this work; the cells are usually rather small than large. In some cases it has been thought that some indica- tion of glandular structure existed, which connects these growths with such as arise from the foetal glandular structure of the ovary, and with the rudimentary Graafian follicles. Secondary cancer may occur by extension of the disease from neighbouring parts, as the uterus' or Fallopian tubes; more rarely from distant organs. Sarcoma of the spindle-celled variety has been several times observed in the ovary. It sometimes appears to be combined with carcinoma, and in that case it is assumed that the sarcomatous element comes from the stroma of the ovary, the carcinomatous from the epithelium of the Graafian follicles, or the rudimentary forms of those structures. A melanotic tumour, probably sarcoma, has been described. Tumours of the Ovary.—Fibrous tumours are not very uncom- mon, and sometimes reach a large size. Rokitansky describes a form of fibrous or fibroid tumour, which originates in degeneration of a menstrual corpus luteum. Fibroid, or fibro-muscular tumours, like those of the uterus, also occur; but caution is necessary not to mistake for these uterine tumours which have become detached. Cartilaginous and bony tumours have been described, but were probably only a part of dermoid cysts. Angioma has been observed in one case (“ Trans. Path. Soc.,” xx. 203). No other forms of sim- ple tumour are known to occur in the ovaries; a remarkable fact, if we consider the presumed reproductive energy of these organs. ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE FALLOPIAN TUBES. Inflammation, Salpingitis.—The Fallopian tubes are liable to various forms of inflammatory action. Catarrh and exudative in- flammation not unfrequently cause a temporary or permauent closure of their channel, which prevents conception, and may lead to dropsical accumulations and other morbid conditions. Thus the fimbriated extremities may become agglutinated to the ovaries, the broad ligament, or the uterus itself; or obliteration may occur at one or more points within the passage ; unless the mucous mem- brane of the part still patent be deprived of its functions, the continued secretion will cause distension, simulating a cyst forma- tion. We have seen a case of dropsy of the Fallopian tube, in which the distension amounted to about five inches in diameter. At other times, according to Rokitansky, several saccular dilatations form between the separate angles and projecting duplicatures of the tubal parietes, and give rise to an imperfectly loculated pouch, which, as in the former case, may contain mucous matter of a more or less purulent character, or fluid of an heterogeneous con-/bO ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE BEOAD LIGAMENTS. stitution. These morbid contents are sometimes poured into the uterus, probably in consequence of the occlusion only having been effected by inspissated mucus; a less favourable issue is rupture of the sac, and effusion of its contents into the abdominal cavity. Morbid fluids can also enter the peritoneum by the apertures of the fimbriated extremity. This occurs in acute inflammation, both puerperal and non-puerperal, producing peritonitis. It should be remembered that uterine injections, or air, may by this means find their way into the peritoneum. In some cases of dilatation the uterine orifice of the tube is dis- tinctly unclosed, and obstruction appears to be caused, as in intestinal obstructions, by flexion. Hcemorrhage into the tubes is occasionally seen, perhaps coming from the ovary. It has usually undergone degenerative changes when observed. This may be one of the causes of dilatation. Tubercle of the Fallopian tubes is much more common than that of the ovary, and is sometimes a primary disease. We find the tubes filled with white or yellowish jmsty matter, proceeding from degenerative catarrhal inflammation of the mucous surface. The walls are thickened and indurated, the canal sometimes irregularly dilated and tortuous. Tubercles may be seen, it is said, on the mucous surface. In such cases as have come under our notice, we have found them in the walls or on the peritoneal surface, where they may be the starting point of tubercular peritonitis. This con- dition may be combined with a similar disease of the uterus, or occur independently. The lymphatic glands -generally become affected. Small cysts frequently form on the fimbriated extremities of the tubes. They have thin walls, and are not usually so large as a pea. A congenital structure, the so-called Hydatid of Morgagni must not be confounded with this. It is a cyst as large as a pea or a bean, attached by a pedicle, one or two inches long, or more, to the fimbriated extremity of the tube. It is said to occur in about one body in four, and is explained as the remnant of Muller’s duct, out of which the Falloprian tube is formed. ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE BROAD LIGAMENTS. The only anomaly which requires notice here is the occasional development of cysts from the body called the parovarium, or organ of Kosenmuller, a mass of tubular structure which lies near the ovary, between the layers of broad ligament, and is, in development, a relic of the foetal kidney. Minute cysts are not very uncommon in this situation; but occasionally some are formed, which in their size rival ovarian cysts, and may, without care, be confouuded with them. Some fibrous tumours of the broad ligament, which have been attributed to the ovary, are believed to originate in this body. Cysts may occur on the broad ligament, unconnected with the parovarium.781 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE MAMMJE. The physiological condition of the breast is subject to so many and important changes, that it is needful to bear these in mind in all cases of disease of the organ, taking into consideration at the same time the close connection which exists between the state of the pelvic procreative organs and the mammse. Thus, the anatomical conformation of the breast varies materi- ally at different times of life. In the infant, for instance, and until puberty, almost the only structures to be distinguished are the minute ducts converging to form the short, straight tubes of the nipple, and these are connected and supported by a variable amount of young connective-, and wavy white fibrous and elastic tissue. Very little fat is present, very little vascularity, and even the essential glandular structure, the minute csecal duct- terminations, whose epithelium furnishes the milk, are almost wholly wanting in youth. The tubes themselves are often mere cylindrical collections of epithelium with clubbed extremities. After puberty a considerable enlargement of the breast attends the awakened functional activity of the ovaries, and the vascular excitement now present may be periodically augmented at the catamenial periods. It is not, however, until conception has taken place that the glandular structure becomes fully developed. The ctecal terminations of the ducts now dilate into acini, lined with epithelium, which early in pregnancy shows that disposition to engorgement with oil particles and rapid proliferation, which subsequently produces, first the cells of colostrum, and afterwards the perfect milk. At the same time the division of the organ into separate lobes becomes more clearly marked, and this lobulation remains henceforth a striking peculiarity of the breast, until the cessation of the catamenia at the climacteric period. At this time retrograde changes set in, the glandular structures become inconspicuous, and much fat is found separating the atrophied lobes of the breast. Now, at all the periods of life the mammas are subject to distinct changes, which may be directly traced to slight failures or excesses of normal physiological processes. In newly-born infants a slight attempt at secretion of milk, attended with fulness, redness, and tenderness, and some escape of serous fluid from the nipple, is extremely common, and may bo readily stimulated to inflammatory changes and even to suppura- tion by the injudicious efforts of nurses to promote the flow of milk by manipulation and friction. At puberty, too, the new excitement and rapid development may often be attended with much uneasiness, tenderness, and neuralgic pains, and care should be taken to avoid anything like injurious pressure upon the enlarging organs. In boys, the slighter changes at this period not unfrequently take the form782 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE MAMMAL of a tender induration surrounding the nipple, attended with some heat and pain, but lasting for so short a time as rarely to be brought under the notice of the surgeon. In the period following puberty, and especially during lacta- tion, irregularities in the exalted functional activity are prone to give rise to general hypertrophy, or into local hypertrophies which assume the form of adenoceles, and more especially into the inflammations which are so frequently forerunners of abscess, either acute or chronic, and into cystic tumours. It is in the period of involution, or the commencement of the atrophic changes, which mark the cessation of active physiological processes, that the graver forms of breast disease—and notably scirrhus—are met with. Inflammation of the breast, although it may be met with at all ages as the result of injury, or as one of the manifestations of those manifold conditions which are grouped together under the head of struma—in which case the inflammatory action is usually very slow and suppuration long delayed—is generally a compli- cation of lactation. Any interference with tne due performance of this function is prone to lead to inflammation and abscess. Hence one very common exciting cause is the sudden cessation of suckling, or allowing the breasts to become engorged with milk. Prolonged lactation, also, with its drain upon the general health, is apt to set up inflammation. A very common accompanying con- dition, upon which Mr. Birkett lays much stress, is some defect in the nipple, causing either soreness or blocking of the ducts. It produces congestion in one or more parts, accompanied by swell- ing, interstitial effusibn, condensation, and finally, if the disease be not arrested, suppuration and abscesses. The glandular texture itself, or more frequently the intercellular tissue, is the primary seat of lesion ; the lacteal secretion frequently continuing during the inflammatory process, and even after a chronic state of indu- ration and enlargement has been established, which has led to the removal of the organ. When the inflammation is confined to the true gland structure, the resulting tumefaction is irregular and lobulated, and deeper seated than when the interstitial or cuta- neous tissues are mainly involved. When suppuration is estab- lished, it may be limited to one spot by adhesive inflammation, and the abscess be evacuated by pointing, as it usually does, near the nipple ; or, a burrow7ing sinuses form, which may extend to a considerable distance. The symptoms of mammary abscess do not differ materially from those of suppuration in other parts. Besides the constitutional disturbance, which may be very severe, one or more lobes of the breast become indurated, swollen, and. very tender and painful; the skin after a time betrays the mischief beneath by its redness and oedema, and finally the abscess points at one or more places, and slowly drains away. The practical surgeon distinguishes three kinds of abscess about the breast, viz.: the true mammary abscess, in which the glandu-783 TUMOUES OF THE BEEAST. lar structures are involved, the superficial abscess betwon the skin and the gland, and the post-mammary abscess, in which the suppuration has its seat in the cellular tissue behind the breast, pushing the organ forward in a remarkable manner, and after a long time discharging either through the breast or, oftener, by its side. The chronic induration, either following an abscess or with little tendency to suppurate, is often very difficult to distinguish from a new growth in the breast. Hypertrophy.—-True hypertrophy sometimes attains a veiy con- siderable size in unmarried females, and appears to be an indica- tion of a generally precocious tendency. Commonly both breasts are affected; but occasionally one is inordinately developed. A temporary enlargement of the gland very commonly accompanies menstruation; it may occur periodically, even long after the cessation of this function, as in an old lady of eighty-five, who was under our care, and who was subject to this phenomenon regularly every month. A permanently hypertrophic state is in- duced by lactation, the period which directly or indirectly gives rise to many of those morbid conditions to which the gland is liable. During lactation, large accumulations of milk fre- quently distend the entire system of ducts, or a single portion ; in the latter case, a fluctuating tumour may result, which will scarcely disappear without surgical interference. It is stated, that as much as ten pints of milk have been evacuated from a swelling of this description. It appears to be generally owing to an atonic state of the mammary ducts, similar to the condition of the efferent channels in the nipple, causing a non-retention of the secretion. The lactiferous tubes are occasionally found to contain sebaceous-looking matter, phosphatic concretions, and other pro- ducts, which have been attributed to the effects of chronic inflam- mation (College of Surgeons, Nos. 2,743 ; 2,744 ; 2,747 ; 2,748); but unless there is a coincident change in the coats of the ducts, it is probable that these matters are the residue of an effusion of milk which has been long retained, and in which a partial absorption has taken place. TUMOUES OF THE BEEAST. Notwithstanding the attention which has been specially given to tumours of the breast, their classification is still involved in much confusion. We believe the following to be the most clearly defined species of tumours:—(1) Lobular hypertrophy; (2) Ade- noma, or cylinder-celled epithelioma; (3) Cysto-sarcoma; (4) Cancer including medullary, scirrhus, and colloid; (5) Sarcoma; and (6) Simple tumours. Lobular Hypertrophy.—By this is meant partial hypertrophy of the glandular structure, or the partial formation of a tumour Although tumours of this description ordinarily remain in con-784 TUMOURS OF THE BREAST. nection with the proper gland tissue, they sometimes appear to he altogether isolated. In a small tumour of this description, removed from the breast by operation on the supposition of its scirrhous nature, and of its being unconnected with the gland, which we had an opportunity of examining, the microscope revealed well-marked ducts and lobules, in no essential feature differing from ordinary mammary tissue. We have since repeatedly examined the structure of mammary tumours, which were regarded as malignant, and found them to consist of follicular structure, filled with epithelial growth. Mr. Birkett describes this form of tumour as present- ing to the naked eye a granular appearance of a white, rosy, of red colour, dependent in a measure upon the time it has been exposed to the air; it is lobulated, divisible into the most minute lobules, attached by a pro- longation to the breast, and invested by a fibro-cellular envelope continuous with the proper fascia of the gland. The lobules are con- nected by common areolar tissue, and the growths vary in size from that of a marble to that of a child’s head. This might also be called adenoma, being a true glan- dular tumour. Cylinder-celled epithelioma, or true Adenoma , is described by Billroth and Kindfleisch. It is produced by prolifera- tion of the glandular epi- thelium, and forms an alveolar structure, in which cylindrical epithelium is contained, like that of the normal glandular acini, but arranged in a disorderly manner, so as to fill up the cavity, instead of remaining ranged along the walls. It ends in fatty degeneration and formation of atheromatous cysts, but the cystic dilatation of the ducts is not notable. It is plain that this tumour constitutes a transition from simple glandular hypertrophy to cancer, resembling the former in the character or shape of its cells, the latter in their arrangement. It is a rare form of tumour ; we have had no opportunity of examining it. Cysto- sarcoma Mammas; Sarcoma Aden oides.—This form of tumour is not so uncommon as that just described, and has been the sub- Fjg. 183. Lobular hypertrophy of mamma. A. Section showing the entrance of duet. b. Cross section, resembling cystic disease.785 CANCER OF THE MAMMA. jeet of numerous histological investigations. Nevertheless, its anatomy and history are hy no means clearly made out; they have sometimes been confounded with simple hypertrophy. The new growth forms a nodular lobulated mass, of elastic or hard con- sistency, involving a larger or smaller part of the mammary gland ; usually solitary, hut sometimes multiple, and affecting com- monly only one breast. It grows very slowly, and rarely ulcerates. The structure of these tumours is complicated, consisting partly of solid sarcomatous tissue, partly of cysts, and partly of glandular tissue. The solid tissue is plainly an outgrowth of the fibrous tissue, which forms an important constituent of the mamma, especially in early life. It consists of sarcomatous tissue ; that is of round or spindle cells, with a considerable amount of inter- cellular substance and fibre. According to Billroth this is the essential part of the tumour. Portions of glandular structure, both acini and excretory ducts are also seen, and it has been generally thought that part, at least, of this is newly formed gland-tissue; so that the tumour must be called a glandular tumour, or adenoma (p. 152). Billroth, however, contends that the gland structure is nothing but the remains of the normal gland ; though he admits that the hypertrophy of the matrix must entail some enlargement of the acini. The usual appearance is to find slits, or very narrow ramified cavities, lined with cylindrical epithelium—an appearance which may be explained by compression of the acini, but also, as we shall see, otherwise. The cysts vary in size, some being micro- scopic, and appear to be formed by dilatation of the acini, from an obstruction of their outlets. They are lined with cylindrical epithelium, and contain serous or mucous fluid. Yery often these cysts are complicated by proliferating growth into their interior, which may almost fill the cavity, and thus give rise to some of the narrow ramified cavities, lined with epithelium, above described. The minute cysts in the stroma, no doubt, go on multiplying and increasing in size till a very complicated structure results. In fine, we must think that there is in these tumours a new pro- duction, both of glandular tissue and of stroma, though one may often preponderate over the other. CANCER OF THE MAMMA. Cancer affects the breast more frequently than any other organ of the body. All the varieties of carcinoma have been met with here; scirrhus is, however, by far the most frequent form in which it occurs primarily. The encephaloid variety may be primary, but is more commonly engrafted upon the former; tho colloid form is the most rare. When associated with other cancers, that of the mamma is stated by Dr. Walshe to be invariably primary, except in those rare instances when the disease spreads from the lymphatic glands or superjacent skin. 3 ECANCER OF THE MAMMA. 786 Scirrhus occurs in the form of a hard, lobulated tumour, im- bedded in the adipose tissue of the gland, causing adhesion to the skin, and retraction of the nipple ; it is at first somewhat movable, but soon becomes firmly adherent to the subjacent parts, in- volving more or less of the gland‘tissue, the thoracic muscles, and the adjoining lymphatic glands. Instead, however, of occurring as an isolated tumour in the first instance, it may from the com- mencement appear as an infiltration of the various structures of the part; it will in that case be ill-defined, sending out branches into the adjacent tissues, and involving in its mass the lacteal tubes and lymphatics. These be- come contracted and flattened into bands, which give a peculiar ap- pearance to this form of mammary cancer. Scirrhus is not at first accompanied by pain, hence its existence is often accidentally discovered when it has already reached the size of a marble or a pigeon’s egg. Even when quite small it is usually very hard. Ulceration of the skin in the vicinity of the nipple supervenes ; the edges of the sore are raised, everted, and puckered; a puru- lent, ichorous fluid is secreted, from a bluish-red, eroded surface, offering a faint and foetid odour; bleeding often ensues, and the patient sinks from exhaustion. Minute Characters.—The mi- nute structure of scirrhus has been already described (p. 175), the characters • of this form of cancer being chiefly derived from the breast. The cells, when undegenerated, are large, fiat, and angular, and even in very hard specimens often numerous; but are also very liable to atrophy, so That 'we may find only wasted alveoli with the remains of cells. The growth always appears to begin in the gland, but spreads beyond it by continuous infection of the surrounding tissue. We then find cancerous alveoli scattered in the neighbouring parts. Waldeyer regards these alveoli as sections of cylindrical processes spreading outwards from the glar.d, and supposes all the cellular part of the cancer to be an outgrowth from the glandular epithelium of the mamma ; others cancerous Section of a large hard turacur, f) om a woman aped sixty, im- bedded in the breast, exhibiting a pale dull greyish basis, shaded with light pink, and intersected in every direction by short wavy lines, like bundles of white fibres, which mingle together in a close irregular network. This fibrous structure is most distinct about the centre of the mass; its exterior appears more homogeneous. * The letracted nipple. (St. Barthol. Museum, xxxiv. 14.) suppose that the cancerous cells are formed out of the connective tissue passing through a stage of small-celled in Eig. 43 (p. 186). Waldeyer urjies, on tho c infiltration, as seen ges, other hand, that thisCANCER OF THE MAMMA. 7S i small-celled infiltration is quite unconnected with the growth of the epithelial or special cells of the cancer, except in so far as the latter act as an irritant. The question is still sub judice, and we can express no opinion about it, except that our experience agrees with Wal- deyer in being unable to trace a transition between small-celled infiltration and formation of alveoli. The fibrous stroma appears to he the result of the former process. It varies much in amount. The axillary lymphatic glands are commonly swollen, hard, and infiltrated with the same carcinomatous products as the mamma ; their affection appears to he coincident with the implication of the skin at the primary seat of injury. The pectoral muscles, the ribs, and costal cartilages are also found secondarily involved to a greater or less extent; a secondary affection of the pleura and the lung is not unfrequent. Towards the termination of the disease, from direct interference with the venous circulation, oedema of the extremity of the affected side is liable to supervene. Billroth and some of the German pathologists distinguish the very hard and early atrophic forms of hard cancer as true scirrhus, and call others in which the atrophic tendency is less marked, simple cancer or carcinoma simplex. This distinction is not usually adopted in this country, and the question is one mainly for practical surgeons; we only mention it here to avoid the confusion of synonyms. Medullary, or Soft Cancer.—This is said to occur earlier in life, and to run a more rapid course than scirrhus, out of which it is sometimes developed, and to give rise to tumours of great size. It is soft, easily breaks down, and is particularly liable to-ulceration, sloughing, or vascular growth, in the form of what was at one time called fungus hsematodes. The structure is more or less vascular, often white or cream-coloured, and brain-like or en- cephaloid in appearance. The minute structure of these tumours is chiefly cellular, the -fibrous stroma being unimportant. The development is said to show unmistakeable continuity with the glandular structure of the breast, commencing with solid out- growths of glandular epithelium. Colloid Cancer of the Breast.—This form of tumour is extremely rare. In most of the cases which have been observed it has been combined with another form of cancer, either medullary or scirrhus * and even in specimens where no other kind of tumour is obvious, minute examination may show that the colloid mass results from the degeneration of groups of cells contained in cancerous alveoli (p. 176). It produces very marked local infiltration, and may be reproduced in distant parts. We have seen very extensive infiltra- tion and ulceration over nearly the whole of the chest. A similar case is described by Doutrelepont.j- For the clinical history of mammary cancer, the influence of * Croft, “Trans. Path. Soc.,” vol. xxiii. p. 265, pi x •+ Langenbeck’s “Archiv. fUr Klin. Chirurgio,” vol.' xii. p. 561, pi. ix.78S CANCER OF TIIE MAMMA. ago and other predisposing causes, and for statistics, we must refer to works on surgery. Sarcoma.—A true spindle-celled sarcoma has been seen in the mamma, hut is rarely uncomplicated, there being generally either cystic production, or sometimes an intermingling of cancer. It often recurs after removal, and may come in the end greatly to resemble the soft cancer in external appearance,* * * § and to be repro- duced in distant parts. No doubt such tumours were formerly called cancer; indeed, the name carcinoma fasciculi turn of Joh. Muller, which means spindle-cell sarcoma, was taken from tumours of the breast. Myxoma is sometimes observed, but was probably formerly con- founded with colloid cancer. It may recur and even be reproduced in distant organs.t Filroma.— Simple fibrous tumours are not very common. They arise, according to Virchow, from a hyperplastic process in the fibrous stroma of the mamma, in which the glandular structure disappears. This may be general or partial, the former causing general induration of the glands. A peculiar form of tumour is Virchow’s fibroma papillare iniracanahculare, formed by papillary growths within the lactiferous ducts. We have seen one case, and another has been lately described.! True fibromata seem some- times to contain cysts.§ Enchondroma occurs in the breast seldom, if ever, unmixed, but usually combined with myxomatous and sarcomatous tissue ; more rarely with cancer. But it is in any form very uncommon, sir A. Cooper described a case which was partly bony. Lipoma.—Isolated fatty tumours are not unfrequently formed in the adipose tissue surrounding the gland. General hypertrophy of the same tissue produces the appearance of enlargement of the gland. The production of fat may indeed be combined with a general interstitial fibrous hypertrophy, producing apparent en- largement, though wasting of the gland substance; but it may also occur in cases of actual wasting of the breast, from scirrhus or fibroid induration. Echinococcus cysts have occurred in the breast, but are excessively rare. One is reported in the “ Pathological Transactions ’ by Mr. Bryant (vol. xvii. p. 276). Tubercle has not been observed to occur in the breast. Syphilitic growths in the form of gummata are spoken of by some authors, but the descriptions for the most part require con- firmation. * Anderson, “Trans. Path. Soc.,” vol. xxiii. p. 254, pi. viil. i See a remarkable case in “ Trans. Path. Soc.,” vol. xxm. p. *.*5, and vol. xxi . p. 120, pi. iii. _ t> 4\ t Virchow, “Krankh. Gesclrwiilste,” vol. i. p. 342. De Morgan, 4 Trans. Tath. Soc.,” vol. xxi. p. 353. (?) § “Trans. Path. Soc.,” vol. xxiii. pp. 258, 260.789 THE MALE MAMMA. The male breast is occasionally the seat of non-malignant and malignant growths. We have ourselves met with an instance of the former in a gentleman aged twenty-one, which to the touch closely resembled one of hypertrophy of the mammary gland; it was of the size of a shilling, felt semi-cartilaginous, as if com- posed of lacteal ducts, and was adherent to the skin of the nipple. The individual had perceived it six weeks before applying for advice ; it gave no pain, and four months later we were informed that it had almost disappeared without any active treatment being pui'sued. This is in accordance with the structure of the male mamma, which Sir A. Cooper has shown to resemble the female gland, though in a rudimentary state. Nor could we otherwise account for the well-authenticated cases of the secretion of milk by men. Mr. Birkett gives delineations, showing the male gland to have all the essential elements requisite for the performance of the function. Mr. Stanley* relates the case of a man, aged forty-five, who was affected with cancer of the right humerus, secondary to cancer of the right breast. Cruveilhier states that three cases have come under his observation, one of which is delineated in his atlas, t In the College of Surgeons (prep. 2,791) there is the section of the breast of a man with a very vascular ulcer, five inches in diameter, probably originating in a lens-shaped, hard cancerous tumour, or a degeneration of the skin and mammary gland. The mono- graphs on diseases of the mamma also contain records of simple cysts, compound cysts, and encysted tumours, occurring in the male breast; but they belong to the mere curiosities of medical experience. Pleiomazia, or excess in the number of mammfe, has been observed very rarely in men ; more commonly in women. J ’ “A Treatise on the Disease-! of the Bones,” by Eiward Stanley, F.R.S., 1849, p. 255. i- "Anatomic Pathol.,” Livr. xxiv. t Mureiiison, “Trans. Path. Soj.,” vol. xvii. p. 42S.CHAPTER XLIII. MORBID CONDITIONS FOLLOWING AND PRECEDING PARTURITION. It is immediately after parturition that the uterus, which during pregnancy has become, as it were, the focus of the entire system, and having completed the great cycle of its duties, is required to lapse into its previous dormant state,—it is while the organ is yet the seat of increased vascular action, and its proper functions may be said to have ceased, that morbid influences are received with facility, and produce destructive and often rapidly fatal conse- quences. After the enormous evolution which the uterus during pregnancy undergoes, it has, when parturition has occurred, to go through changes in the way of involution which are sometimes imperfectly effected. There are two states which are more par- ticularly liable to supervene immediately after parturition, which are each of them a source of danger, by the haemorrhage they give rise to. The one is atony or defective contraction ; the other, spasm or irregular contraction of the uterus. In the one case we find the uterus maintaining its dilated condition, its walls are flabby and soft; in the other, various irregular forms, to which the term hour- glass contraction has been applied, present themselves. PUERPERAL INFLAMMATIONS. The inflammations occurring in the puerperal state may be classified as local and general. The latter constitute what is generally known as puerperal fever, though this term is used with a certain amount of laxity and sometimes applied to conditions properly described as local diseases. Local Inflammations.—These, when occurring after parturition, have considerable similarity to those which occur in the unim- pregnated uterus. They may be described under the corre- sponding heads of Puerperal Endometritis, Metritis, Perimetritis, and Parametritis ; with corresponding inflammations of the ovaries and Fallopian tubes.PUERPERAL INFLAMMATIONS. 191 Puerperal endometritis chiefly affects the fundus and body of the uterus, the cervix being little affected. Three forms or degrees of it are distinguished by Rokitansky. In the first the uterus is usually well contracted; the inner surface is covered with purulent or mucous fluid, and where the submucous tissue is laid bare a greenish or yellowish albuminous mass is seen diffused among the muscular fibies. The remainder of the uterine tissue is simply somewhat oedematous. In the second or diphtheritic form the mucous membrane is more conspicuously swollen and injected, and. easily breaks down into a whitish or brownish slough, which may hang on the surface in flakes. In other parts are croupous false membranes, not usually very extensive. There is, as in the other form, albuminous matter in the muscular bundles of the uterine walls. This condition may penetrate to the deeper tissues, and involve the entire thickness of the uterus, which will then, also, be more or less softened and dis- coloured, infiltrated with a low sanious product, and even converted into a mere pulp. The dirty-coloured, Drownish, flocculent matter that is found on the inner surface of the uterus is doubtless in part composed of the remnants of the decidua, to the decomposition of which Klob attributes an important share in the production of puerperal endometritis. With regard to the nature of the false membrane, it should be stated that it somewhat resembles that of diphtheria of the throat; but some pathologists look upon it as connected with a vegetable fungous growth, or associated with low organisms of the bacterial type. Some degree of suppuration and softening of the uterine walls may also be present. The third degree of the disease described by Rokitansky is the septic or putrescent form, rarely seen. It is said to differ from ordinary gangrene. The internal surface of the organ is covered with a thin, opaque, or more dense product, varying in colour from pale green to dark brown, beneath which the tissue, to a greater or less depth, is converted into a similar pulp. Small abscesses are sometimes found in the muscular tissue, without any perceptible change in the surrounding parts; generally, however, the struc- ture of the muscular fibre is entirely destroyed, and the consistence of the organ so altered that it takes the impression of the surround- ing portion if any pressure is applied to it. Certain portions of the organ show complete necrosis; there is at the same time intoler- able foetor of the parts. Endometritis readily extends along the Fallopian tubes, and the inflammatory process is thus conveyed directly to the peritoneum ; hence the frequency of peritonitis following this affection. It is frequently complicated with metritis, and gives rise to thrombosis of the uterine veins, or inflammation of the lymphatics. It may also prove fatal by setting up a general septic condition, oven without the production of abscess or inflammation in distant parts. Metritis, or inflammation of the substance of the uterus, is usuall yPUERPERAL LYMPHANGITIS. 792 dependent upon the affection just described. The muscular sub- stance is found infiltrated 'with inflammatory cells, and ultimately breaks down into suppuration with the production of abscesses, which, as in corresponding conditions of the kidney, are found mostly in the outer parts of the organ. In this way a large portion of the uterus may be destroyed. The affection is usually accom- panied by thrombosis and puriform softening of the clots. It readily extends to the surrounding tissues, producing local peri- tonitis and subperitoneal abscesses. They most frequently start from fissures and ruptures of the cervix, which become covered with false membrane. Inflammation of the Ovaries ard Fallopian Tubes.—These parts are Very commonly affected in puerperal inflammations. The tubes, doubtless, become inflamed by direct continuity with the surface of the uterus. In metro-salpingitis, as this affection may be called, the lining membrane of the tube is found injected with catarrhal in- flammation. and showing profuse suppuration, or the cavity may contain sanious or putrid matters. It is needless to point out how easily these conditions are propagated to the peritoneum. The inflammation thus produced is often only partial or limited to the vicinity of the tubes. Puerperal oophoritis does not notably differ from simple inflam- mation already described; it is usually suppurative. SECONDARY AFFECTIONS. The morbid conditions above described are the primary inflam- mations of the puerperal state. We have now to consider the secondary affections of the surrounding parts. These affections are not only important in themselves, but as indicating the means by which the local puerperal inflammations produce a general blood poisoning, pyaemia, or puerperal fever. The lymph and blood-vessels must be first considered, then the adjacent serous cavity of the peritoneum. PUERPERAL LYMPHANGITIS. The lymphatic vessels very frequently become affected in puer- peral inflammations, and always in consequence of endometritis or metritis. The first change perceived in them is, according to lvlob, dilatation of the uterine lymphatics. These vessels are seen in a varicose state on the serous surface of the uterus, and con- taining a lax fibrinous coagulum, which in many of the vessels is softened into a puriform liquid, so that when one of these is opened it looks like an abscess. The coagulation of lymph is an altogether abnormal phenomenon and depends on the uterine inflammation. Inflammation of the lymphatic glands connected with these vesselsPUERPERAL THROMBOSIS AND PHLEBITIS. T93 is also often seen ; and in very severe cases even the ductus thora- cicus has been found to contain a similar thrombus. Complete coagulation in the vessels would, of course, block the road to the poisonous matter, but the softening thrombus no doubt facilitates the passage of morbid poison into the blood. Inflammation of the lymphatic vessels appears to be excited by the presence of the thrombus. They show a somewhat reddish tinge, though not from actual injection, and their inner coat pro- liferates to form young cells or pus. There may, however, as Klob believes, be a lymphangitis without previous thrombosis. The consequences of these lymphatic inflammations may be a general state of what is roughly called pyaemia, but especially here shown by inflammations of the peritoneum, and less constantly other serous membranes, enlargement of the spleen and liver; but never metastatic abscesses in the lungs. PUERPERAL THROMBOSIS AND PHLEBITIS. The formation of clots, in those of the uterine veins which are connected with the placental attachment, seems to be a normal process and necessary to prevent haemorrhage. Prom these clots it is always possible that coagulation may spread to the neigh- bouring veins, viz., the plexus utero-vaginalis, the plexus pampi- niformis, and the twigs of the internal iliac vein. In this way the simple pelvic thrombi, which are evidently very common, are produced. Beside direct continuity with the veins in the placental attach- ment of the uterus, pressure of the pregnant uterus seems to be a cause of thrombosis. The coagula thus formed are seen mostly in the common iliac or its tributaries, and the external and internal iliac. These coagula are evidently most likely to lead to the coagulation in the veins of the legs, constituting jildegmasia dolens; though it appears that this coagulation has in some cases been traced also to continuity with the placental coagula. Another cause of coagulation is the dilatation to which many of the veins and plexuses will have been subject during the pregnancy. Dr. Davis deserves the credit of having first shown that Phleg- masia alba dolens depends upon thrombosis, or (as it was then called) inflammation of the crural vein ; Dr. Lee first succeeded in tracing the uterine origin of this affection anatomically; he demonstrated the “ inflammation ” commencing in the branches of the hypogastric vein, and subsequently extending from them to the iliac and femoral trunks of the affected side. The cellular tissue surrounding the vein participates in the swelling, and that, as well as the impeded return of the venous blood to the heart’ gives rise to much cedema of the limb, and condensation of all the tissues. This may be followed by suppuration, or sloughing; it may terminate in a complete cure, by resolution; or, in a partialPUERPERAL PERITONITIS. 794 recovery, -with obliteration of a portion of tbe vein, and permanent induration of some of the soft parts. In a case examined twentv- one months after the attack, Dr. Lee found the external iliac vein, with its subdivisions, and the upper part of the femoral, converted into a ligamentous cord, so that it could only be distinguished from the surrounding cellular tissue by careful dissection. Xo trace of the entrance of the common iliac into the cava could be made out. The left side has a greater tendency to become affected than the right. The thrombi formed by either of these processes, when no inflammation is present, are quite innocent. They may gradually be removed or changed, in the manner described in speaking of thrombosis (p. 391), without producing any symp- toms. The only danger arising from them is that of embolism; i.e., detachment of a mass of clot which may interfere with the heart, or block up the pulmonary artery, as before described. It is well known that such accidents do happen in the puerperal state. But in consequence of puerperal inflammation a different series of changes is-gone-through by the thrombi, and the con- sequences of any detachment of masses from them will also be different. The thrombus passes into the condition of puriform softening ; the wall of the vein frequently becomes inflamed, and thus actual suppuration within the vein may occur. Fragments from a clot thus altered will, if they reach the pulmonary artery, set up abscesses there, and probably also produce general pysemia. This they do partly because they come from an inflamed part, but also because in those uterine inflammations which are specific, the emboli are the vehicles of the specific poison. Thrombosis and .phlebitis thus supply one channel by which poisonous matters can enter the system. They are in fact, as said before, part of the machinery of pysemia. PUERPERAL PERITONITIS. The serous membrane of the abdomen is very frequently attacked by inflammation in the puerperal state. Peritonitis occurs primarily or secondarily, and is, undoubtedly, the lesion most commonly associated with puerperal fever. It may be limited to the surface of the organ, and more particularly to the part surrounding the neck, or it may involve more or less of the entire sac. The membrane never exhibits much vascularity, and in the low typhoid forms there is a remarkable absence of congestion and redness. In the more sthenic forms which approach to the character of ordinary peritonitis, the greater vascular action is accompanied by the production of lymph and pus of a healthy appearance, adhering to the surfaces, and matting them together. The ordinary character of the exudation, however, is a copious795 PUERPERAL FEVER, OR PYJEMIA. effusion of an aplastic character; the abdomen then contains from a few ounces to several quarts of serum, of a dirty-yellow, green- ish, or brownish hire, in which flocculent particles of lymph are floating, while hut small patches of a thin non-coherent exudation are observed on the peritoneal sac. The smell of the fluid is also distinctive ; it will be recognized when once noticed, as it differs from anything met with in the human body, in health or disease. The fluid is described by the older authors as of a creamy character, hence the long-prevailing fallacy that it was connected with an actual metastasis of milk, which was in a measure supported by the failing supply of the mammary secretion observed as one of the first symptoms of the disease. The serum contains a comparatively small portion of albumen, offers an acid reaction, and is said to possess a very salt taste. Causes of Puerperal Peritonitis.—This is in most cases the con- sequence of the entrance of inflaming matter from the adjacent organs. This may come directly through the Fallopian tubes; or indirectly by the lymphatics. Dr. Barnes suggests that there may be an actual transudation of liquid through the walls of the uterus, in consequence of the great tension to which they are subject in parturition. In some cases direct propagation from the serous covering of the uterus must be assumed. It is doubtful whether peritonitis occurs, in the puerperal state, with a perfectly normal state of the uterine organs. It may occur as a simple peritonitis, without any further symptoms of puerperal fever; or may be one of the manifestations of this disease. PUERPERAL FEVER, OR PYiEMIA. The affections described above need not all be regarded as parts of any general disease. The uterine organs, like others which have been exposed to strain and injury, are very likely to become inflamed. In the same way inflammation may be set up in the peritoneum, as it is by hernia or obstructed bowel. But in the special diseases connected with the puerperal state a certain order and connection of the morbid conditions is seen, which maktes the process strictly analogous to pyaemia. Some inflammation or specific morbid process, affecting the uterine organs, is the primary or local disease which, distributed by means of the veins or lymphatics, produces secondary or general infection. The order appears to be as follows. Endometritis is usually the primary process, and is often com- bined with metritis. On this follow most frequently lymphatic affections, lymphatic thrombosis, lymphangitis, or lymphadenitis. These are the sequelae most frequently seen in puerperal epidemics,' and may be compared to surgical erysipelas, or diffuse cellulitis!FUEliPERAL FEVER, OR PY.EMIA. 796 The blood is then infected by means of the diseased lymphatics; no mechanicul transference of emboli takes place, but an injection by means of fluids. The secondary affections are inflammations of serous membranes; parenchymatous changes in the liver and kidneys and other organs, but no pulmonary abscesses. Much less frequently, according to Klob, is the uterine inflam- mation followed by thrombosis and inflammation of the veins. These affections will, however, as in other forms of pyieinia, lead to secondaiy abscesses in the iungs and other lesions. They arp, according to Klob, rarely combined with peritonitis. The lymphatic and venous affections may, of course, be combined. Specific Theory.—While some investigators hold that the mor- bid products introduced into the circulation, by the means just described, owe their poisonous character simply to their coming from parts either inflamed or septic, others hold that there is a specific poison which is conveyed in the one case by the lymphatics, in the other by the veins. This poison has been also asserted to be always attached to minute organisms; viz., micrococci or bacteria. This theory is founded on very careful observations by Kindtieisch, Klebs, Heiberg, and others. Having been able to confirm some of Heiberg’s observations in pyaemia, we are led to attach much value to his observations in puerperal fever, a malady which we have had little opportunity of studying. * The minute micrococci, or spherical bacteria, which have been found by Klebs on the surface of infected wounds, are seen also in the diphtheritic false membrane spoken of as occurring in puerperal endometi'itis. They have been further traced by Klebs and Heiberg into the lymphatics—both the larger trunks and the smaller vessels distributed on serous surfaces—and in lymphatic glands : also in the softened puriform thrombi of veins, and in the heart. Further, they have been traced in the secondary affections, viz., in the pulmonary abscesses, and in the abscesses of other parts. In serous inflammations they were found in large number in the exudation, sometimes making up even a larger mass than the pus and fibriue, and also in the lymphatics of the membrane. It appears then they can be traced through all the channels by which the morbid poison passes, from tho seats of primary inflammation into the system generally, and into the secondaiy morbid pro- cesses ; wherever the morbid poison can be traced there are the bacteria also. There remain, of course, the further questions where do these organisms originate, and how do they reach the wounded surface of the uterus; but tbe bearings of these observations on the contagious character of puerperal fever, and on its distribution in the body, are obvious. For a discussion of the questions con- nected with the contagious or epidemic character of the disease we must refer to works on obstetrics. * 11 Die Pucrperaleu und Pyiimisclien Processe,” von Hjalmar Heilnrg. Leipzig1, 1873.DISEASES OF PREGNANCY. The consideration of the morbid processes compb’cating parturi- tion is appropriately followed by an account of the diseased condi- tions met with in the placenta and in the ovum ; we shall, at the same time, touch upon extra-uterine pregnancy. THE PLACENTA. The placenta varies much in size within the limits of health. Its position differs also considerably without inducing any detriment to the mother or child ; but when placed near or over the os uteri, the frequent haemorrhages that occur endanger the life of both. The umbilical cord, instead of being attached to the centre of the placenta, is sometimes inserted at the edge ; this gives rise to what has been termed the battledore placenta, a deviation which, though not in itself perilous, may become so by rough manipulation after the birth of the child. The same applies to those cases in which the vessels of the cord are divided before they reach the placenta or are inserted into the membranes. Other irregularities of the cord consist in its being excessively short or extravagantly long, and in its being tied into knots. The extremes of length on record are two inches and fifty-seven inches. Concussion, or other external violence, is a frequent cause of partial separation of the placenta, inducing extravasation into the tissue, and frequently giving rise to abortion. That the placenta is the seat of numerous morbid processes may be inferred from the close relation it bears to the nutrition of the foetus, the frequency of foetal disease, and the necessary transition through the placenta of any morbific agent, which induces the latter. It is only, how- ever, very recently that the attention of pathologists has been directed to the diseased conditions of this organ ; our knowledge of the morbid changes to which it is liable is, therefore, as yet, very limited. ’ J Professor Simpson* describes congestion of the placenta as affecting the maternal or foetal portion, causing the external sur- face of the organ to assume a more or less deep violet, and, some- times, almost livid colour, the internal structure presenting- a deep purple hue, from the vessels being overcharged with blood, while the substance is heavier and more solid than natural. One ’of the sequelae of congestion is haemorrhage into the body, or on the surface of the placenta, varying much in extent. The effused blood undergoes the changes usually traced in coagula, and when there are several fibrinous remains, thoy cause a tubcrculated appearance. * “ Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal,” vol. xv. p. 265.THE PLACENTA. 79S Inflammation of the placenta begins from the uterine surface, or in the substance of the organ, and presents the various stages seen in other parts, producing local or general hepatization, effusion, irregular adhesions, and secondary degenerations. Inflammation may attack the whole, ora portion of the placenta. The effusion and compression of the tissues will vaiy according to the extent of the inflammation, causing more or less obliteration of Fig. 185. Sectional view of atrophied placenta. The atrophy and fatty degeneration of the maternal and foetal portions were caused by a fibrinous layer on the uterine surface. a, Fibrinous deposit, b, Maternal portion of placenta, c, Foetal portion. the blood-vessels. In an extreme case we find a capsule of dense lymph encasing the maternal surface, the whole is considerably reduced below the normal size, and the soft, spongy texture is con- verted into a compact splenified mass. This layer must he fur- nished by inflammation of the membrana decidua. If confined to individual lobules, the alteration will be limited in a corresponding degree. Those instances of adherent placenta which are the source of so much anxiety to the accoucheur, are probably referable to a prior inflammatory attack, glueing the after-birth to the uterus. Professor Simpson admits the occurrence of total absorption of a placenta as one of the consequences which may result from the agglutination of the after-birth to the uterus. A third stage oi iutlammation is occasionally met with in the shape of abscesses or of purulent infiltration; it is also stated to give rise to the effusion of pus between the two surfaces of the uterus and placenta. _ Roki- tansky describes suppuration occurring herein the form of circum- scribed abscesses, or of diffused infiltration and fusion. Fatty degeneration of the placenta, to which Professor Ivilian and Dr. Earnes have recently drawn attention, is probably to be explained799 THE PLACENTA. as the molecular disintegration resulting from the deposit of fibrine in the cells surrounding the villi of the chorion; and not as a primary deposit of oil within the placental capillaries, a view more fully developed by Dr. Handheld Jones, * in a paper on fatty degene- ration. If portions of a placenta, thus degenerated, be thrown into water, “ the first thing which strikes the observer,” to employ the words of Dr. Barnes, + is, “ that the tufts of villi do not expand or float out in the same way as in the healthy placenta, and on endeavouring to separate the fragments into its component villi with needles, the extreme brittleness of the whole structure becomes apparent.” Examined by a high power, “ we observe (1) that the villi are thickly studded with innumerable minute spherules of oil; (2) the chorion is much altered"; it is thickened and destitute of nuclei; (3) the walls of the vessels no longer contain nuclei, these having, in all probability, become degenerated into spherules of oil; (4) the spherules of oil are contained, some in the chorion, some in the walls of the blood-vessels, and many in the intervals or spaces between these ; (5) the cavities of the vessels are almost invariably free from fatty deposition; (6) the vessels are destitute ol blood.” “ Uterine Hydatids Myaoma of the Chorion.—The villi of the chorion are not unfrequently found to have become converted into oval, pedunculated bodies, like hydatids, clustered together like a bunch of grapes; the cysts vary in size from a pin’s head to a fil- bert, and more, and they may amount to several hundred. This pathological condition has received the name of the vesicular mole • it is to the expulsion of a mass of this kind that the fabulous accounts ot women having given birth to several hundred children are attri- butable ; the cysts having been regarded as ova, and these having been magnified into infants. Two beautiful specimens of the disease are preserved in St. George’s Hospital Museum. It appears to depend upon the time when the degeneration occurs whether it shall be total or partial. If the process begin after the first month of pregnancy, it will be confined to the placenta or even to a part of it. Virchow interprets these structures as myxo- matous degeneration, and has shown that the normal villi contain tissue of this kind (mucous tissue), which is continued into them lrom the umbilical cord. Rokitansky denies the occurrence of tubercle in the placenta Ihe only instance on record that we have met with is one described by M. Hardy,l as having been found in a phthisical female ao-ed thirty-five; but there seems little doubt, on reading his descrin- tion, that the supposed tubercles were altered blood-clots or fibrin ous masses. * “Med.-Chir. Review," April, 18*3. t “ Med.-Chir. Tran*.,” vol. xxxiv. t “ Archives Gdndiales de Medeciue,” 1834, vol. v p 241800 THE FOETUS. The foetus is liable to become the seat of morbid processes at every stage of its development and in every tissue and degree : giving rise, at the earlier period of its existence, to an entire destruction of the formative nisus, or to partial arrests of develop- ment in individual parts, some of which we have had occasion to allude to in speaking of the malformations of different organs;— inducing in its later intra-uterine existence phenomena of disease resembling those met with in the human being after birth. It remains for future inquirers to determine more accurately, not only the exact pathological character of the different lesions, but also the primary or secondary relation borne between the morbid states of the placenta and the foetus. Many of the masses that have passed under the name of moles have originated in a blight of the ovum; “ the embryo,” as Dr. Ashwell describes it, “having died early, the ovum has increased in size and solidity, not by a process of growth, as in natural pregnancy, but by the effusion of coagu- lable lymph from inflammation of the lining membrane. This forms successive layers over the surface of the dead ovum, giving it, eventually, a great degree of consolidation. Some of these masses exhibit no cavity, but the chorion and the amnion are demonstrable, although the enveloping lymph may be one or two inches in thickness.” Every organ and tissue of the fcetal body may become the seat of atrophy or hypertrophy; the latter may be characterized as actual excess of one or more organs, as we often meet with in the pha- langes. Numerous distortions, curvatures, even fractures, and other solutions of continuity.* demand the attention of the medical man immediately after the child s birth. Atrophic con- ditions are, generally, referable to diseased states of the placenta, which interfere with the nutrition of the child, and cause it to perish, or merely prevent its normal development. Cases are recorded in which such atrophic foetuses have been borne the lull period; though their death has taken place early in piegnancy, these, as Dr. Montgomery t remarks, illustrate the necessity of carefully examining into the state of the tcetal appendage^, a*> -o their healthy condition or otherwise, before we venture to pro- nounce an opinion on the time that has elapsed since conception, merely from the size and general appearance of an ovum or foetus shown us. .... The curvatures that the foetus is most commonly subject to ar , those of the lower extremities—these, as well as the dislocations o the astragalus, the elbow, and other parts that frequently come under the notice of a surgeon, are attributed to violent contrac » See n remarkable case that was brought before the Medico-Clururg^ ' • jfr. T D. Jones. “Med.-Chir. Trans.,” vol. xxxii. p. 69. . t Art. “ Foetus,” in Ur. Todd’s “ Cyolopdieiu of Anatomy and Ph\ siulo^y.801 THE FCETTJS. tions of the uterus, or to convulsions affecting the foetus. Of the hernia.1 to which, as congenital affections, we must allude, umbilical is a frequent and diaphragmatic the rarer form ; both are the result of imperfect development of the parietes, which in each case respectively ought to completely close in the abdominal viscera. In the former, the intestines, to a greater or less extent, pass through the umbilical opening, and occupy a pouch formed by the cuta- neous coverings of the abdomen ; in the latter they enter the thoracic cavity, where they displace the lungs and the heart; they commonly, though not necessarily, cause the death of the fcetus. The brain occasionally protrudes through the cranium, giving rise to hernia cerebri; this, however, must not be confounded with a tumour, which often forms on the head of the infant, simply owing to the mechanical pressure exerted upon it during parturition, and the consequent extravasation, and known as cephalhematoma. Encephalocele is described by Dr. Montgomery as, at first, a rather tense, smooth, and semi-transparent tumour, giving generally a more or less distinct sense of fluctuation; in shape the tumour is globular or oval, and frequently tapers to a neck, where it issues from the head, at which point a circular aperture can be detected in the bone, the edges of which are, in general, smoothly rounded off. The defect in the cranial bones, giving rise to this malforma- tion, is analogous to that upon which spina bifida depends; here there is a deficiency in the arches of one or more vertebrae, allowing a protrusion of the dura mater, or sheath of the canal, and the arachnoid lining, in which an accumulation of the spinal fluid takes place. The arachnoid often forms at the most projecting parts of the tumour the only investment, both the skin and the dura mater being thinned down gradually, and at last entirely lost. The fluid, in its turn, presses upon the cord, and more or less displaces it. When it occurs in the lumbar region, its ordinary site, the divided cauda equina may be seen, as Dr. Bright has shown,* adherent to the sac, and induces the erroneous opinion that the appearance is due to the nerves distributed over the sac being turned back- wards from their natural direction. When there are several defi- ciencies in the osseous canal, the fluid communicates between the different tumours; the entire column may be deprived of its spinous processes and their arches, so that the tumour occupies the whole region. Spina bifida is often associated with hydroce- phalus. One of the most remarkable occurrences in intra-uterine life is the phenomenon of spontaneous amputation of a limb ; this is sometimes complete, the severed extremity being entirely detached and leaving a stump, in which the healing process is perfected ; at others only partial, the stricturing band not having cut through all the tissues. It is generally the left lower extremity that suffers; and Dr. Montgomery has demonstrated the fact of its 3 F “ Reports of Medical Cases,” vol. ii. p. 640.802 EXTEA-UTERINE EEEGXAXCY. being due to the umbilical cord being twisted round it, and not, as has been suggested by others, to gangrene, or the accidental formation of ligamentous bands. He expresses his conviction that many of the cases of apparent arrest of development may be set down to this cause, the amputated member not having been found, either from its being atrophied or buried in coagula, and from the separation having been effected at the early stages of pregnancy. Numerous observations are recorded by authors, evidencing the occurrence of the inflammatory process in the foetal viscera. Peritonitis, with its various sequelae j gastro-enteritis, followed by ulceration; inflammatory lesions of the liver, pneumonia, and pleurisy; abscesses in the lungs, the thymus, thyroid glands, and supra-renal capsules; and pericarditis ; have each been proved to occur in the foetus, by Desormeaux, Billard, Simpson, Cruveilhier, Montgomery, and other pathologists, to whose works we must refer for further particulars. The same applies to the various cutaneous affections of a syphilitic or other character. Nor is it compatible with our limits to do more than allude to the endless varieties of monstrosities which, from the causes mentioned, or from reasons to which pathology offers no clue, affect the unborn child. EXTRA-UTERINE PREGNANCY. Five varieties of extra-uterine pregnancy are assumed to occur— in the Fallopian tubes, in the walls of the uterus, in the ovaries, in the peritoneal cavity, and in the vagina. We have not met with a well-authenticated instance of the last form, and the occur- rence of ovarian pregnancy has also been denied by authorities like Velpeau and Kilian. The danger to mother and child is almost equal in each variety; in fact,, there is only one case on record in which both have survived; this was one of peritoneal or abdominal pregnancy, which occurred to Dr. P. L. Heim, and in which the Caesarean section was successfully performed.* The accident most frequently met with is the Fallopian tube pregnancy. In this case the ovum is arrested in its descent into the uterus, and the process of growth and development progresses as if it had reached its proper nidus, up to the period of its discharge. The cause of this stoppage appears to be obstruction in the tube, which is not so great as to prevent the entrance of semen, but does prevent the descent of the ovum. The tube is distended, and its walls become hypertrophied ; the changes in the maternal system, though sometimes accompanied by certain anomalous symptoms, are those met in ordinary pregnancy; there is general turgescence of the mamma) and the uterus, and in the latter organ it has long been taught that a decidua is formed, as if it contained the foetus. • Rust’s “ Mngazin fur die gesammtfi Heilkunde,” voi. iii. 1817.803 EXTRA-UTERINE PREGNANCY. Denman, Baillie, William Hunter, and Elliotson, have met with instances in which the decidua was present; other cases have been recorded by Mr. Langstaff and Dr. Lee, in which it had not formed We have ourselves examined a preparation m fet. George’s Hospital Museum (No. 2718), in which the decidua is wantin'*, nor does it seem difficult to understand that m one instance’the sympathetic irritation should he set up by which this membrane is produced, and that it should fail m others. Ihe development of the Fallopian tube does not keep pace with that of the ovum, and in the second or third month rupture generally takes place, the foetus escapes into the abdominal cavity, and the mother sinks from the shock, the haemorrhage, or the peritoneal inflammation that ensues; but instances are known of the patient surviving, and the foetus undergoing in the abdomen degeneration to a lithopcedion. In the majority of instances the right tube is the one affected. Bupture does not appear to be the invariable issue. In tlie Hoyal College of Surgeons (preparation No. 2/19) we find a foetus almost completely developed, but compressed and dried, which is stated to have been removed by operation from the Fallopian tube fourteen years after gestation; the patient recovered, and lived for a long time after at Hamburg, where the operation was performed. This specimen is a good instance of what has been termed a lithop.cdion, a stone-child; the parts inter- vening between the extremities are ossified, and nutrition appears to have been completely arrested. These lithopcedia are some- times retained within the uterus, as the remarkable preparation in the same museum (No. 2720) proves, of which Dr. Cheston has given a detailed account. The mother, at the age of twenty- seven, carried her fourth child to the full period, had labour-pains, but no child was born. She recovered, and died paralytic at the age of eighty. The uterus was found to' contain an osseous. sac adherent to the surrounding part, and resembling a middle-sized human cranium. The cyst seemed to have absorbed all the paits in contact with it, and contained a foetus in the same position as that in utero. The brain, lungs, and liver preserved almost their natural appearance; but there was no trace of blood, nor any remains of membranes, placenta, or umbilicus. The osseous sac, with the foetus, weighed three pounds one ounce four drachms. A similar instance, of twenty-eight years’ duration, is described by Prael.t The terminations of Fallopian tube gestations alluded to are not the only issue which we meet with. Adhesions form with different parts of the parietes, and the foetus having been broken up by ulcerative disjunction, tho parts may be discharged piece- meal, whereupon tho cyst in which they were contained contracts, and the mother survives. Iu this way the foetus has been eliminated by the rectum and the umbilicus. * “ Msd.-Chir. Trans.,” vol. v. t “ De Foetu, duo de triginta Annoi in Utero detento.” Goettingen, 1821.EXTEA-UTERINE PREGNANCY. 804 The foregoing remarks also apply, in the main, to abdominal gestation; here the ovum, probably owing to a want of that erectile tone in the fimbriated extremity of the tube by which, in ordinary pregnancy, it is made to embrace the ovary when concepttion is effected, falls into the peritoneal cavity. The development pro- ceeds up to a certain point, the foetus becomes enclosed in very thick and firm membranes, and death ensues from peritonitis, or haemorrhage, or else the foetus is eliminated in the manner above described. Pregnancy in the parietes of the uterus probably consists in an arrest of the ovum at the point at which the tube is inserted into the uterus; the sac, therefore, consists chiefly of the muscular tissue of the uterus, but owing to the irregular development of the organ, the process cannot run its full course to the full period, the walls of the sac in which the ovum lies give way, and haemorrhage or peritonitis results. Ovarian pregnancy results from the impregnation of the ovum in the Graafian follicle, where for any reason it is not detached, although the follicle is ruptured. It seems to be an actual occur- rence, though extremely rare, and though some authorities have denied the possibility of it.THE PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY OF THE JOINTS. CHAPTER XLIV. DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. Malformations.—In cases of defective development, some joints i may be quite absent, the bones may be united by congenital anchy- I losis ; or, in a less degree of imperfection, they may be incompletely I formed, the ligaments sometimes being partly or altogether want- ling. even when the rudimentary extremity of the bone is covered ; with cartilage. On the other hand, supernumerary joints exist, both when the number of bones is natural and when it is excessive'. Inflammation of the Synovial Membrane.— This may arise as a ] prim ary disease spontaneously, from cold, from injuries, from 1 localization of the rheumatic poison, or from that of syphilis, or I gonorrhoea. It also occurs as a secondary affection, excited by disease <of the cartilage, or of the subjacent osseous tissue. It may be ' acute in various degrees, or chronic. It is rare in young children Hess so about the age of puberty, and very frequent in adults.’ Before we describe the morbid changes, we must advert to two ] points in the anatomical arrangement of this membrane, which are ! much importance. The synovial are commonly, and no doubt j justly, classed with the serous membranes, and are described to tform shut sacs, just as these are. Dissection, however, fails to : trace the membrane over the free surface of the cartilages, and l microscopic examination confirms its absence, except in the fetus. • In these unused joints the cartilaginous surface is found quite •smooth and even, and covered by a layer of delicate epithelial sscales, such as line the surface of the synovial membrane where it ipasses over the ligaments. In the articulations, however of adults inot only is the epithelial layer absent, but the surface of the carti ’ Ilage is slightly irregular, as if somewhat worn. Our own exami- nations have convinced us of the general correctness of these state iments, given, by Dr. Todd and Mr. Bowman, but we must also mention that another high authority, Mr. Toynbee, is of a differentDISEASES OF THE JOINTS. 806 opinion, and believes that be can demonstrate tbe existence of tbe synovial membrane in tbe adult, by detaching an exceedingly delicate layer from tbe cartilage, which, he states, does not contain any of the cartilage cells. This, we think, is a film of the cartilage itself, only so thin that it cannot include the cells. The other point we wish to notice is the existence of a set of remarkable vascular processes, the synovial fringes, covered by a delicate epithelium, upon the free projecting margin of those synovial folds which advance into the cavities of joints. Mr. Bainey, by his discovery of these, has confirmed the anticipation of Clopton Havers, that those synovial folds fulfil, in some measure, the function of glands, being particularly concerned in the formation of the synovia. It is, we are convinced, from these vascular pro- cesses that blood-vessels first enter the false membrane formed by exuded lymph. Inflammation of the Joints.—Though this is generally called synovitis, it must be remembered that the cartilages are also concerned. The results of acute synovitis are the following. More or less injection of the vessels, which in one instance, related by Sir. B. Brodie, were so distended with blood that “throughout the whole of its internal surface, except where it covered the cartilages, the synovial membrane was of a dark red colour, like the conjunctiva in acute ophthalmia.” Effusion of serous fluid, which may be so great as to lead one to suppose that the sac is filled with solid matter. Effusion of lymph, forming flakes all over the synovial surface, and not upon the cartilages. In severe cases suppuration may occur. If the disease advance unchecked, ulceration of the cartilages is very prone to occur; villous or fringed processes are then formed, which are in contact with the ulcerating part of the cartilage, and probably both promote the destructive process, and aid in removing, by absorption, the disintegrating tissue. We shall return to this point again under the head of ulceration of cartilage. Under judicious treatment, the whole of the fluid will be reabsorbed, and the joint return to a perfectly healthy state. If, however, much solid exudation is present, its absorption will be more difficult, and some amount of swelling and stiffness of the part will still remain. Acute llheumatism.—Though this is perhaps the commonest disease affecting the joints, little is known of its morbid anatomy. In the rare opportunities which occur of examining the joint, it often happens that there is no marked alteration visible to the naked eye beyond slight vascularity. MM. Cornil and Banvier, however, describe an inflammation of the synovial surface re- sembling the inflammations of serous surfaces; and marked by the production of large compound cells with several nuclei, corpuscles like those of pus, and sometimes a fibrinous reticulum. They also state that there are constant proliferative changes in the cartilage cells, of the kind hereafter described, resulting in the productionDISEASES OF THE JOINTS. 807 of secondary capsules, and splitting up the entire cellular sub- stance. . “Chronic synovitis/’ Sir B. Brodie says, “causes an increased Fio. 1S6. From a case of secondary deposit in knee-joint, the same as described in the text in the next page. c. A cartilage cell, immensely hypertrophied, lying in fibrous stuff, b, A villous pro- cess springing from the sjmovial membrane, a, A strip of fibrous tissue containing three enlarged cartilage cells—one is also figured separately. secretion of fluid, but does not in general terminate in the effusionDISEASES OF THE JOINTS. 808 of coagulahle lymph, or in thickening of the inflamed membrane.” Fibrinous matter is, however, if the disease continue long, or often recur, effused either on the inside or outside of the synovial membrane, and becoming gradually organized into a fibroid tissue, thickens its substance and renders it sometimes firm and gristly! A preparation in the museum of St. George’s Hospital, shows the synovial membrane of the knee-joint so altered in this way as to be nearly an inch thick. It may be difficult, if not irnposs'ible, to detect the presence of fluid in the cavity of a joint which is in this state. Serous effusion, to a considerable amount, sometimes takes place in the synovial sac, without any manifest inflamma- tion. The affection is analogous to hydrocele, and belongs to the class of passive dropsies. Its causes are generally obscure. Suppuration.—'When abscess occurs in a joint, the pus is com- monly mixed with more or less of synovial fluid, and flakes of lymph, and is sometimes quite of a sea-green colour. There is, also, sometimes, suppuration outside the joint, the colour of the muscles is altered, the periosteum and the osseous structure in the vicinity are injected and inflamed. A rapid effusion of pus into the synovial cavities of joints, not unfrequently occurs in pyaemia, puer- peral fever, erysipelas, and in cases of contamination of the blood by some morbid matter. In one instance of this kind, occurring after a thecal abscess in a finger, we found the synovial membrane forming the margin of one of the ligamenta alaria of the knee- joint manifestly injected, and fringed with a number of various- sized villous projections. These consisted of a fibro-homogeneous, granulous substance, imbedding numerous glomeruli. A layer of similar matter was spread over the whole of the synovial surface, which was not injected with blood. The cartilage was ulcerated in some part of its extent, its surface rendered irregular by super- ficial erosions, and its texture altered to a lax fibroid stuff. The cartilage cells in these parts were most remarkably changed, con- taining sometimes from twenty to twenty-five celloid masses in their interior, instead of the two or three which they might con- tain in their normal state (see Fig. 186); showing, therefore, the same changes as in simple ulceration of cartilage, to be hereafter described. The intercellular substance was entirely deprived of its natural consistence; it broke down under slight pressure. Some- times complete destruction of the cartilage and part of the bone result from acute suppuration (in pyaemia); but in general the disease has too rapid a course to produce serious changes. Chronic Suppuration, or White Swelling.—In this condition, accord- ing to Rokitansky, ‘‘the quantity of purulent fluid effused into the cavity of the joint is generally considerable, and the capsule is, consequently, much enlarged; the synovial membrane is lined with a firm, shreddy layer of lymph, which is dissolving into pus, and a soft, purulent precipitate, which can be easily removed, adheres to the cartilages.” The layer of fibrine, lining the synovial membrane, “ is opaque and lustreless, its surface is rough, and809 DISEASES OE THE JOINTS. serum is infiltrated, and blood in small spots extravasated through its tissue, as ■well as through that of the fibrous capsule of the joint, and neighbouring cellular structures. As the disease ad- vances, the infiltration and thickening of the neighbouring struc- ture increase, they become filled ■with a gelatinous, lardaceous, ■white product, in the midst of which fibrous tissues, capsules, ligaments, or aponeuroses, can be no longer recognized. Here and there, in the mass, there are cavities of different dimensions, the lining of which is vascular, spongy, and granulating, and the contents purulent. The muscles near the joint are pale and flabby, infiltered and attenuated. At length the infiltration reaches the subcutaneous cellular and adipose tissues, and the integuments become fixed to the disorganized structures beneath. The diseased joint then presents the following external appearance : it is swollen, and always more or less bent; it feels everywhere soft and flabby, or in some spots flabby, in others firm, elastic, doughy, and at the same time tuberculated; the integuments over it are tense and pallid, leuco-phlegmatic, or they are traversed by varicose veins. At length ulceration commences, and advances in various direc- tions. “ Externally, the capsule ulcerates in one or more spots, and then the soft parts adjoining it. In some instances large openings form in the capsule, and connect the joint with ulcerated cavities in the soft parts ; in others, mere sinuses are formed ; but in either case they open externally through the skin, and occasion and maintain a discharge of the contents of the joint. Internally, the interarticular cartilages and the ligaments ulcerate, the carti- lage covering the bones, when brought into contact with the matter, is destroyed in the way that has been mentioned, and the ulcer- ative inflammation attacks even the bones, if they have not been involved already. The cavity of the joint appears like a cloaca, surrounded with a gelatino-lardaceous mass; the integuments covering it are of a dark-red hue, and are especially discoloured at the orifices of the sinuses. The joint contains pus or sanies of an offensive odour and variously discoloured, the repeated haemorrhages which take place when there is acute caries of the bones, very fre- quently giving it a red or brown tinge ; the ligaments ulcerate, and the cartilages separate partly, or entirely, from the bones; the osseous surfaces are laid bare, thoir compact wall is destroyed, and the spongy tissue is exposed, infiltered with pus and ulcerating, and surrounded on all sides by osteophytes of various shapes; remains of the fibrous structures of the joint, pieces of loosened cartilage, and of necrosed bone, are mixed with the matter dis- charged from the joint. The soft parts, and the entire bones belonging to the diseased joint, are wasted, most of the fat is absorbed, the muscles are remarkably blanched and thin, and the bones, being generally in a state of eccentric atrophy, are soft and fragile. More or less quickly after the disease has reached this stage, spontaneous dislocations, as they are called, ensue. ChronicDISEASES OF THE JOINTS. 810 suppuration is difficult to distinguish from what is called “ scrofu- lous ” disease of the joints, referred to hereafter. Both seem to have been included under the head of “ white swelling.” Inflammation may attack the cellular tissue around joints, caus- ing effusion of coagulating fluid and consequent swelling, with subsequent formation of pus. One or more spots only may be affected, so that small, local deposits of pus are produced; or the whole may he involved, and the joint become enveloped in a large abscess. In its later stages, the disease extends to the synovial membrane and the cartilages; or recovery may take place, the joint remaining sound. Pulpy degeneration of the synovial membrane is a very curious and peculiar disease, with the exact nature of which we are yet scarcely acquainted. It was first described by Sir B. Brodie as a morbid alteration of structure peculiar to the articular lining membrane, nothing analogous having been observed in the serous sacs. He says, “ The disease seems to commence in the reflected portions of the synovial membrane, converting them into a light brown, pulpy substance, varying from a quarter to a half, or even a whole inch in thickness, intersected with white membranous lines and red spots, formed by small vessels injected with their own blood. _ It then attacks the synovial membrane of ‘ the cartilages,’ beginning at their edge, and extending gradually over them, ulceration in those cartilages going on correspondingly, till the carious or ulcer- ating surfaces of the bone are exposed. The cavity of the joint sometimes contains pale yellow fluid in the floating flakes of lymph, or pus, which is discharged externally by ulceration; but sometimes neither. Or abscesses may exist in the altered synovial membrane itself, without communication in the joint.” We have given, in the “Pathological Report for 1848-49,” a detailed account of the disposi- tion and structure of the synovial membrane thus peculiarly altered, from which we extract the following summary :—The new growth formed prominent fringes of a soft, greyish structure, which over- lapped and encroached considerably on the surface of the articular cartilage. The marginal zone of the cartilage, for a varying extent, was converted into a kind of fibrous tissue, and blended with the altered synovial membrane. More internally the cartilage was grooved on the surface, probably so as to correspond with the over- laying fringe. The fibrous tissue into which the cartilage was transformed was of an imperfect kind, not'divided into distinct fibres, and not containing any of the natural cells, but strewed over with numerous oil drops and yellowish molecules. The change in the cartilage was effected by extraordinary enlargement of its cells, which were crowded with an endogenous growth of young cells containing each a small oil drop and much clear fluid. At the margin of the cartilage, which was obliquely truncated, the change was most advanced; in the interior the structure was quite natural. The pulpy synovial tissue consisted principally ot well-formed nuclei and granular matter, with which were mingled a few fusi-DISEASES OF THE JOINTS, 811 form and circular cells. These elements were contained in an enveloping membrane, very thin, of whitish aspect, and nearly homogeneous texture. There existed scarcely any trace of stromal Fig. 187. A a, Vertical section of cartilage in process of absorption towards the left, and over- lapped by the vascularized pulpy synovial fringe. The edge of the cartilage where it is obliquely truncated is continuous with the fibrous tissue on the left hand. B, Healthy cartilage cells from the right-hand side, more magnified. c, Greatly enlarged cartilage cell, containing young cells. d, Loculus, from thickened synovial membrane, filled and surrounded with nuclei fibres, hut a good many large vesicles, or loculi, formed of almost homogeneous walls, and filled with material similar to that which surrounded them. Delicate-walled blood-vessels ramified through the mass, but not in great numbers. It seems very probable that the altered synovial tissue promotes and is concerned in the absorp- tion of the cartilage. The disease almost always occurs before the middle period of life. “ In goneral it can be traced to no evidentDISEASES OF THE JOINTS. 812 cause; but occasionally it is the consequence of repeated attacks of inflammation.” It rarely occurs elsewhere than in the knee, but has been seen in the ankle, and in a joint of the fingers. Sir B. Brodie classes it with malignant disease, but from this it is dif- ferenced by well-marked characters. It has also been called scrofulous, but Mr. Holmes contends that it is merely chronic inflammation. Arborescent Growths.—Another very curious alteration, which is sometimes observed in the synovial membrane, consists in its free internal surface being covered by a growth of large villous processes, quite perceptible to the naked eye, which hang into the cavity of the joint, and present a shaggy appearance. They are not deve- loped on the surface of the cartilages. They have sometimes the form of simple threads, or flattened shreds, or their free extremi- ties are split into filaments like a tassel, or they have a club shape, or resemble melon-seeds hanging singly or in clusters from each stalk. In structures they consist of a fibroid material, containing, we believe, in many instances more or less fat, and approaching herein to that peculiar form of fatty tumour which is called Lipoma arborescens. The healthy texture of the articulation is not materially interfered with, at least in many cases. These have been often regarded as outgrowths of the synovial fringes, but Virchow has traced some to sessile ecchondroses. Beside the more usual fatty and fibrous structure, some similar bodies contain cartilage, and others bone. Becoming detached from the pedicles, they form some of the masses called loose cartilages. We have seen both the loose and the pendulous masses in the same joint, in a case of ununited fracture of the neck of the femur, with chronic inflammation. The length of the pedicle varies much, and there seems reason to think that they may be sometimes origi- nally sessile outgrowths (ecchondroses) winch become pedunculated. But it seems that cartilage is sometimes found in the normal syno- vial fringes. In a pendulous body removed by Mr. Shaw from the knee-joint of a girl aged seventeen, the end of a needle was found to be the nucleus of the mass, which consisted of true cartilage and true bone. Mr. Shaw suggested that the needle had probably entered the external condyle of the femur, and there set up an ecchondrosis which became ossified, and finally so far detached as to be pendulous ; while evidently it might easily have become com- pletely detached. (“ Trans. Path. Soc.,” vi. 328.) These pendulous bodies are very common in chronic rheumatoid arthritis. Loose cartilages, or mures articulares (so-called), are not unfrequent in the cavities of joints. They are usually from the size of a millet- seed to that of a pea, but have been met with as large as a walnut. In shape they are more or less oval and flattened. Their surface is smooth, as if invested by a serous covering, which they some- times evidently possess, when they are attached to the synovial membrane by a pedicle of varying length. Formations of this kind commence in the sub-serous tissue, and as they enlarge, graduallyMORBID CONDITIONS OF CARTILAGE. 813 make their way inward towards the cavity of the joint, in which at last they become free by the dissolution of the pedicle. These are usually true cartilages, and sometimes contain bone, in which may be seen Haversian canals, a clear proof of its having been at one time vascular. Others are formed by a condensation of fibrinous coagula; “ they are distinguished,” Eokitansky says, “by their uniform smoothness throughout, by a delicate albuminous invest- ing membrane, and frequently by their manifest arrangement in concentric laminae.” These never contain any of the characteristic cells of cartilage, and appear to consist solely of compressed fibril- lating exudation. Occasionally they are lodged in ulcerated cavi- ties of the normal cartilage, which might give rise to the idea that they were truly fragments of this tissue, cut out as it were by the process of ulceration. We do not believe, however, that this ever happens. It has also been supposed that fragments of cartilage chipped off may become loose bodies, and the possibility of tins occurience is shown by a case in which Mr. Simon removed from the knee-joint a piece of cartilage thus broken off (“ Trans. Path. 600., vol. xv. p. 206), but this cannot account for many cases. Cal- careous matter is sometimes deposited in the substance of these loose cartilages, and Mr. Rainey describes true bone lacume similar to those seen in the thin plates of the ethmoid, as existing in their interior. ° Inflammation of the ligaments, both acute and chronic, is said to occur, but Wickham states that, according to his experience, “ the ligaments are the last of all the different parts diseased, and that it is very common to find the ligaments perfect, even when every other texture is either altered or destroyed.” Prom Mr. Keys account it seems that inflamed ligaments become thickened and more pulpy than natural. The areolar tissue which penetrates among their fibres becomes highly vascular, and is probably con- cerned m producing the softening and ulceration of their substance winch sometimes takes place. . G°uty deposit is often found in the ligaments, with or without similar deposit m the cartilages. Relaxation of the ligaments may be the result of long-continued chronic inflammation, or of simple disuse of the limb. In the latter case it has been known to proceed to such an extent as to allow the head of the femur to slip out of the acetabulum. Fre- quent and heavy strains may produce a similar effect; Mr Wick- • ham mentions a case in which the leg was so much bent outward at i the knee as to be at nearly right angles with the thigh. MORBID CONDITIONS OF CARTILAGE. It is somewhat doubtful whether a true hypertrophy of cartilage •ever takes place; but an apparent hypertrophy is not unfreouontfv i observed. I ho thickness may be increased to treble of that whichMOBBED CONDITIONS OF CABTILAGE. 814 is normal; at the same time the tissue becomes very soft and yield- ing, and shows a decided tendency to break up into fibres, which are arranged vertically to the surface. There is some evidence to show that, at a later period, cartilages, so altered, would waste and disappear. In advanced age articular cartilages become con- siderably thinned—at least this is the case in the hip, and, pro- bably, more or less in all joints that are exposed to pressure. Some- times the cartilage is simply atrophied; in other cases it is replaced by a semi-translucent, and in others again by a white fibroid tissue. Sometimes the cartilage seems itself to ossify, being con- verted into what is called the ivory or porcellaneous deposit. This is a peculiarly dense kind of bone; its Haversian canals being filled up by the earthy salts. Besides occurring as a gradual, almost unperceived change in the aged, it is also met with very constantly in the disease termed chronic rheumatic arthritis, of which we shall presently speak. Gouty Deposit in Cartilages.—The free surface of cartilages is sometimes covered with a thin layer of urate of soda ; and the same matter may also exist in the substance of the cartilage, in the caneelli of the invested bone, and in the subsynovial tissue. It is deposited as the result of gout. The appearance of the articular surfaces is precisely as if they were smeared with white paint. On examining these in vertical sections it is, however, seen that the greater part, if not all, is really contained in the substance of the cartilage, and that the complete infiltration of the superficial layer causes it to appear as if it were actually deposited externally. The urate of soda is in the form of bunches of crystals, like those shown in Pig. 163, deposited in the intercellular substance. Atrophy, or Usure of Cartilage.—It is not uncommon, on opening joints which are not apparently diseased, to find the cartilages more or less deficient at one or more points, and this especially in the parts where they have had to bear the greatest pressure. The cartilage is eroded more or less deeply, so that in the seat of the lesion the bone may be exposed, and this with scarce any traces of inflammation in the synovial membrane. Sir B. Brodie “has many times observed a portion of cartilage of a joint wanting, and in its place a thin layer of hard, semi-transparent substance, of a grey colour, and presenting an irregular granulated substance." This indicates a partial atrophy, and destruction of the cartilage, with imperfect replacement of it by a fibrinous exudation. We have examined the knee-joint of a female, aged forty-seven, who died of pleuro-pneumonia,, in which the cartilage of the femoral condyles, and of the patella, was manifestly in a state of chronic atrophy, or “usure,” as it has been termed by Cruveilhier. There was a sight injection of one of the natural synovial fringes, but no trace of inflammatory action ; the joint, externally, appeared quite healthy, and no complaint had been made respecting it during life. The cartilage of the patella was most affected; it presented, at its external part, an unequal, irregular surface, about the size of a815 MORBID CONDITIONS OF CARTILAGE. fourpenny piece, which was softened in texture, and roughened by small greyish prominences. The surrounding cartilage was in a commencing state of similar change. In a vertical section of the part most affected, it was seen that the cells near the free margin wei’e Fig. 188. enlarged and multiplied, while the matrix at the margin broke up into fibres of various size, quite separate from each other, the larger still imbedding some of the cells. The accompanying cut illustrates this degeneration of cartilage. Ulceration of cartilage, occurring as an acute or subacute affection, in various articular inflammations, has been much inquired into, and our knowledge respecting it has become tolerably definite and exact. It was formerly much disputed whether the change was effected by the action of the vessels of the cartilage itself, or those of the synovial membrane on the encrusted bone. Now, however, we know certainly, that human arti- cular cartilage is entirely devoid of vessels; and we have good reason to patella’in state of ueure. The free believe, txiat tnose OI toe surround- The left-hand figure represents one ing textures are not the effective of the.se. fibres, more magnified, and agents in the ulcerative process. If p™cies™S S°me sroups of cor" we-refer, as we may fairly do, to the instance of the cornea, as a very analogous tissue, we can scarcely hesitate to admit that ulceration is essentially an alteration of the nutrition of the affected texture, and that the influence of the adjoining vessels upon it is only secondary. The perforating ulcer of the stomach is also a striking instance of the truth of this position. It being then admitted, that ulceration of cartilage is produced by a special disorder of its own nutrition, we proceed to inquire what has been ascertained respecting the nature and the stages of this diseased action. These were admirably set forth by Mr. Johu Goodsir, in his well-known paper on the process of ulceration in articular cartilage, an extract from which we sub- join : “If a thin section, at right angles, be made through the articular cartilage of a joint, at any part where it is covered by a gelatinous membrane in scrofulous disease, or by false membrane m simple inflammatory condition of the joint, and if this section be examined, it will be found to present the following appearances on ono edge of the section is the cartilage unaltered, with its cor puscles natural in position and size ; on the opposite ed"e is the gelatinous or false membrane, both consisting essentially of nucle Vertical section of cartilage of816 MORBID CONDITIONS OF CARTILAGE. ated particles, intermixed, especially in the latter, with fibres and blood-vessels; and, in the former, with tubercular granular matter. In the immediate vicinity, and on both sides of the irregular edge of the section of cartilage, where it is connected to the membrane, certain remarkable appearances are seen. These consist, on the side of the cartilage, of a change in the shape and size of the car- tilage corpuscles. Instead of being of their usual form, they are larger, rounded, or oviform; and instead of two or three nucleated cells in their interior, contain a mass of them. At the very edge of the ulcerated cartilage, the cellular con- tents of the enlarged cartilage cor- puscles communicate with the dis- eased membrane by openings more or less extended. Some of the ovoidal masses in the enlarged cor- puscles may be seen half released from their cavities by the removal of the cartilage; and others of them may be observed in the substance of the false membrane, close to the cartilage, where they have been left by the entire removal of the car- tilage which originally surrounded them. If a portion of the false mem- brane be gradually torn off the car- tilage, the latter will appear rough and honeycombed. Into each de- pression on its surface, a nipple-like projection of the false membrane penetrates. The cavities of the enlarged corpuscles of the cartilage open on the ulcerated surface by orifices of a size proportional to the extent of absorption of the walls of the corpuscles, and of the free sur- face of the cartilage. The texture of the cartilage does not exhibit, during the progress of the ulceration, any trace of vascularity. The false membrane is vascular, and loops of capillary vessels dip into the substance of the nipple-like projections, which fill the depressions on the ulcerated surface of the cartilage (Fig. 1S9): but. with the exception of the enlargement of the corpuscles, aud the peculiar development of their contents, no change has occurred in it. A layer of nucleated particles always exists between the loops of capillaries and the ulcerated surface. The cartilage, where it is not covered by the false membrane, is unchanged in structure. The membrane generally adheres with some firmness to the ulcer- ating surface; in other instances, it is loosely applied to it; but in all, the latter is accurately moulded to the former. In scrofulous disease of the cancellated texture of the heads of bones, or in cases where the joint only is affected, but to the extent of total destruc- tion of the cartilage, over part or the whole of its extent, the latter Fig. 189. Drawing of ulceration of cartilage. a, Vertical section of ulcerating cartilage magnified, b. Naked-eye view, showing two ulcerated de- pressions.MORBID CONDITIONS OF CARTILAGE. 817 is, during the progress of the ulceration, attacked from its attached surface. Nipple-shaped processes of vascular cellular texture pass from the bone into the attached surface of the cartilage ; the latter undergoing the change already described. The processes from the two surfaces may thus meet half way in the substance of the car- tilage, or they may pass from the attached surface, and project through a sound portion of the external surface of the cartilage, like little vascular nipples or granulations. The cartilage may be thus riddled, or it may be broken up into scales of various size and thickness, or it may be undermined for a greater or less extent, or be thrown into the fluid of the cavity of the joint in small detached portions, or it may entirely disappear.” Mr. Goodsir believed the cells of new formation, the nucleated particles of the false mem- brane, to be the immediate agents in the absorption of the car- tilage. We have had several opportunities of verifying the above account, and have already mentioned two instances in which we observed a similar change in ulcerating or wasting cartilage. Proliferation of Cartilage Cells.—The description given by Goodsir, many years ago, has been confirmed, not only by the observations in the text, but by those of Bedfern and others. Of late years it has assumed much importance as the type of an inflammatory process leading to suppuration in non-vascular parts, and com- parable in this respect to inflammation of the cornea. Numerous observations on inflammation of cartilage, produced artificially, have been made by Kremiansky, Cornil and Eanvier, and others! The general result has been to show that inflammation produces the same series of changes described in the text; the cartilage corpuscles breaking up into groups of young cells not to be cbstingiiished from pus corpuscles; as in the cornea (p. 88). Cohnheim, regarding all pus corpuscles as preceding from the vessels, contends the multiplication of the cartilage (or corneal) • cells is only a process of breaking-up, or retrograde, not pro- Igressive metamorphosis; and that the pus corpuscles actually observed all come from the vessels. It is generally admitted that • the number of corpuscles thus produced by the cartilage cells must be small, and probably the proliferative process soon ceases. Heitzmann,* in numerous careful observations on cartilages injured by heat, could not trace any actual pus-formation. In some of 'the affections in which proliferation occurs, as chronic rheumatoid arthritis, and acute rheumatism, MM. Cornil and Eanvier clis- ' tmguish the new cells from pus, or inflammation cells, regarding them as actual cartilage capsules of secondary formation; and 'State that the wall of the cartilage capsule can always be distin- guished by iodine. In purulent synovitis they believe actual pus to be produced. * Stiicker’s “Mecliz. Jahrbueher,” 1872, part iv.818 SCROFULOUS DISEASE OF THE JOIXTS. No doubt can exist of the propriety of giving a distinctive name to this affection, although its course does not seem to be exactly similar to that of scrofulous disease of other parts. ^ The articular extremities of the bones are the primary seat of mischief, they become preternaturally vascular and much softened, so that they are easily cut with a knife, whiie “ a transparent and after- wards a yellow cheesy substance is produced in their cancelli.'’ Prom the observation above mentioned, we are inclined to think that granular cells, formed in the primary exudation within the cancelli, play some part in the absorption and removal of the earthy salts of the bone. As the disease of the bone advances, ulceration of the cartilage commences on its attached surface, in the manner described in the extract we have given from Mr. Goodsir’s paper. Before, however, this can take place to any great extent, the articular lamina, so well investigated by Mr. Birkett, must be removed. This consists of a thin, lamina of dense bone, containing large lacunte, with scarce any canaliculi, which bounds and closes in the cancelli on the surface encrusted by the cartilage. Until this is removed no vessels can shoot into the nipple-shaped processes of false mem- brane which dip into the cartilage. The osseous tissue gradually wastes and is absorbed, it undergoes a true caries ; sometimes also a part dies, and may exfoliate. In cases of this kind it is not at all unfrequent to find several joints affected with the same morbid change in various stages. As the whole of the articulating surface is generally involved in the disease, the attachment of the cartilage becomes loosened at all points, aud it is, therefore, even at an early period much more easily detached from the bone than is natural. Sometimes, as Sir B. Brodie mentions, in the advanced steps of the disease, nearly the whole of the cartilage is found forming an exfoliation instead of being ulcerated. ‘ ‘ As the caries of the bones advances, inflammation takes place of the cellular membrane external to the joint. Serum and afterwards coagulated lympb is effused; and hence arises a pulpy and elastic swelling in tne early, and an cedematous swelling in the advanced stage ol tne disease, which is one form of white swelling. Abscess having formed in the joint, it makes its way by ulceration through the ligaments and the synovial membrane, and afterwards bursts externally, having caused the formation of numerous an ci cuitous sinuses iu the neighbouring soft parts. hhis 'ea the joint especially affects children ; it is the essence of the mur , coxarius which is so very common among the otispring o poorer classes. It rarely occurs after the age of flinty. . disease is not regarded by all pathologists as originating 111 bone ; some regard it as primarily a disease of the synovia - brane. For instance, Billroth describes the affection as oDISEASE OF THE SPINAL COLUMN. 819 arthritis,” and defines it as essentially depending upon excessive growth of the synovial membrane and its fringes. In early stages the lateral portions are found especially altered; the fringes swollen and thick; the whole membrane soft and succulent. Gradually these changes become more marked, the synovial mem- brane thicker, more oedematous, and red, while the fringes become masses resembling spongy granulations. These begin to grow over the cartilage from the sides, insinuating themselves between the articular surfaces, which they gradually cover completely. The red granulation mass thus formed adheres to the cartilaginous surface here and there by vascular processes, which dip down into the cartilage (much as described by Goodsir.) By the gradual extension and penetration of these the cartilage is destroyed, and the granulating mass comes in contact with the bone. In the meantime the cartilage-cells undergo active proliferation, and the intercellular substance becomes absorbed. The amount of suppu- ration varies much, and the subsequent destruction of the joint and the ends of the bones, is attributed by Billroth chiefly to the growth of the granulation tissue. Bindfleisch regards the disease as essentially one of the articular ends of the bones ; caries fungosa, as he calls it, which attacks and destroys the cartilage beneath, as the synovial outgrowth does from aboye. Corml and Banvier, on the other hand, contend that the granu- lation-tissue and fungoid growth are merely secondary inflam- mations, not peculiar to this disease, the essential feature of which they believe to be fatty degeneration of the cartilage. The latter constitutes the first stage of the disease; in the second stage appear the fungous granulations. TUBERCULAR DISEASE. MM. Corml and Banvier describe a strictly tubercular disease ot the synovial membranes, in which they are thickened, soft, and contain numerous miliary tubercular granulations. The cartilages are affected as m the early stage of scrofulous disease; but the bones are Dot altered. This type of disease is probably rare. Its symptoms and history are hardly known. DISEASE OF THE SPINAL COLUMN. The joints of the vertebrae are very liable to be affected in nearly :the same way as other articulations of more perfect development ;SO that a brief account of their morbid states will properly follow ihere. The cancellous tissuo may be the seat of the scrofulousDISEASE OF THE SPINAL COLUMN. 820 disease just described, occasioning caries and deposition of cheesy matter in the cavities. “ In these cases ulceration may begin on any part of the surface, or even in the centre of the bone; but in general the first effects of it are perceptible where the intervertebral cartilage is connected with it, and in the intervertebral cartilage itself ° In other cases the vertebrae retain their natural texture and hardness, and the first indication of the disease is ulceration of one or more of the intervertebral cartilages, and ot the surfaces of bone with which they are connected.” These cases may be con- sidered analogous to those of primary ulceration of the cartilages of diarthrodial joints. “ There is still.another order of cases, but these are of more rare occurrence, m which the bodies ot the vertebral are affected with chronic inflammation, of which mceration of the intervertebral cartilages is the consequence. Io tois we have not any analogue among the more ordinary diseases ot joints, except in the scrofulous disease of joints just described. _ in whichever of these ways the disease begins if not checked in 1,3 urooress, it proceeds to the destruction of the bodies of the ver- tebrae and intervertebral cartilages, leaving the posterior parts pf the vertebrm unaffected by it; the necessary consequence of whicti is an incurvation of the spine forward, and a projection of the spinous processes posteriorly.” The chronic inflammation ot toe bones sometimes extends to the membranes of the spinal cord, and when the curvature is very great the cord maybe so comp^^ that it cannot properly discharge its functions. SuPJ^f sometimes takes place at a very early period ; at other times not until the disease has made considerable progress. The soft p-.ru, in the neighbourhood of the abscess become thickened and con- solidated, forming a thick capsule, m which the abscess biso times retained for several successive years; but fr^ which ultimately makes its way to the surface, presenting itself m one or another situation, according to circumstances. In the advanced staa-es of the disease, new bone is often deposited in uvular masses on the surface of the bodies of the neighbouMg ve^b^, and where recovery takes place, the carious surface of the verte brae above coming in contact with that of the vertebrae below , they become united with each other at first by soft substance, after wards by bony ankylosis. The disposition to ^kylosisi.n^ the same under all circumstances; it is muc e . j tex. are affected by scrofula than where they retain their natiira ^ tnre and hardness; and this explains, wherefore m the forma class of cases, a cure is effected with moie 1Vr - ■ ^)0ne the latter. Occasionally portions ot the ulcerated or carlo bo lose their vitality, and having become detached.are fomid lytog loose in the cavity of the abscess. II hen a 1 » ' , con_ formed tlie pressure of the matter on the sui a , j the tiguous vertebras may cause an extensive caries limits of the original disease.821 ANKYLOSIS. The term is derived from the Greek ayKv\y, which signifies a curve of a joint, and was applied to such cases of stiff joint as remained fixed in a curve, not a straight position, which was distinguished by the term opdoKa>\ov. The process which produces ankylosis is very similar to that which unites the two ends o a fractured bone, and the union in both cases may be effected either by soft fibroid tissue, or by actual bone. For the production of ankylosis it is essential that the cartilage encrusting the articular bony surfaces should be wholly or in great part removed. When this is effected, and the conditions of the inflamed parts are such as do not tend to the production of pus, but of plastic exudation, the capillaries, which have entered the processes of false membrane from the bony surfaces, meet and anastomose together, so that the vascular systems of the two bones are in free communication, while the intervening fibrinous exudation gradually undergoes change into a dense fibroid tissue, mingled, as Kokitansky says, with an abundance of fat. If the process stop at this point, soft or fibrous ankylosis is the result. More commonly, however, under favourable conditions of perfect rest, proper food, and atten- tion to the health, the exudation undergoes change into osseous substance, so that the two bones become as it were accurately welded together. . False Ankylosis— There is a kind of ankylosis which is denomi- nated the spurious or false, most common after synovitis, and which depends on the presence of masses of exudation within the synovial capsule, with thickening of this membrane and of the ligaments. The condition of the muscles also seems to promote the fixed state of the articulation, the extensors being paralyzed and wasted, and the flexors, which exert in most instances a superior power, being contracted, shortened, and atrophied. Ankylosis of the bodies of the vertebrae has already been alluded to as the mode in which a cure takes place after caries of their structure and ulceration of the intervertebral ligaments. It is clear from this that when the destruction of these parts has been at all extensive, the avoidance of the deformity of angular curvature is impossible. Ankylosis of some of the less important joints occurs almost naturally in old age. Some rare instances are recorded in which all the joints of the body became spontaneously ankylosed. CHRONIC RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS. The chronic inflammatory nature of this affection is extremely well marked, but the essential dependence of it upon rheumatism is not demonstrated; in fact, though in an acute form it has a great resemblance to acute rheumatism, it appears to be essen-CHRONIC RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS. tially a different disease. It occurs not only after an attack of acute rheumatism, but after injuries and bruises, and sometimes without apparent cause. It is very frequent in the hip the shoulder, the knee, and the articulations of the hand. When' it is fully established in the hip joint, it is said by Mr. E. Adams rarely or never to extend itself to the other articulations. Some- times both hips only are attacked. When the knee is the seat of the disease, or the shoulder, other joints will, generally, be found more or less implicated. In the case of the knee, Mr. E. Adams recognizes a first stage, “marked by evidences of sub-acute inflammation, such as pain, heat, considerable swelling. This is followed by a second period, in which the heat and swelling diminish, but the pain continues.” We quote from Mr. ~SV Adams’s communication to the Pathological Society, the following account of the appearances ordinarily observed in the advanced stages of chronic rheumatoid arthritis. “In the hip joint: 1st. Great enlargement and irregularity of shape of the head of the femur, which assumes a mushroom-like form, in consequence of real or apparent flattening of its upper part, and nodulated masses and flattened ring-like layers of new bone, surrounding the edge of its articular cartilage, and extend- ing to a variable distance over its articular surface. To this mushroom-like form, the apparent shortening of the neck, in con- sequence of its upper part being concealed by the overhanging margin of new bone at the edge of the articular cartilage, °also contributes. 2ndly. Absence of articular cartilage to a greater or less extent, and the ebumation of the bony surface. 3rdlv. Nodulated masses of new bone, from the size of a hemp-seed to that of a walnut, attached by thin peduncles to the synovial mem- brane on the neck of the bone, or to that of the capsular ligament, —more or less spherical when small, but flattened and irregular when of large size. In the os innominatum: 1st. Increased capacity of acetabulum. 2ndly. Ossification of the fibro-cartilaginous rim, or cotyloid ligament. 3rdly. Absence of articular cartilage to a greater or lesser extent, and eburnation of the exposed bony sur- face. 4thly. Irregular osseous growths (stalactitic osteophytes) on the surface of the bones external to, and immediately surrounding, the joint. In the lcnee-joint, the appearances were essentiallv similar to those in the hip; new osseous growths, of irregular torm, surrounded the margins of the articular cartilages of the femur and tibia; and pedunculated osseous growths, in consider- able numbers, and of all sizes, were attached to the synovial mem- brane, both in the notch and lining the capsule. In addition, however, the articular cartilages on the condyles of the femur pre- sented a thickened nodulated appearance in their central parts.” Mr. E. Adams, describing the condition of the shoulder-joint, says, “ The capsular ligament is occasionally increased in thick- ness, and its fibres are hypertrophied; and it is generally more capacious than natural, showing that effusion of synovia to a con-CHRONIC RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS. 823 siderable amount had existed, although the external signs of this phenomenon are not usually evident. When the interior of the synovial sac is examined, it will be found to present evidences of ha vine been the seat of chronic inflammation. Bunches of long organized fringes hang into the interior of the synovial sac; and many of these vascular fimbriae, which m the recent state are of an extremely red colour, surround the corona of the head of the humerus. We also notice rounded cartilaginous productions, appended by means of membranous threads attached to the interior of the various structures which compose the joint. ihe size and shape of these bodies are various. The long tendon of the biceps muscle is very commonly adherent to the superior extremity of the bicipital groove, while that portion of it which normally passes upwards, and takes its attachment to the uppei maigin o the glenoid cavity, is destroyed. The articular surface of the humerus is very much enlarged, and extends itseli over the greater and lesser tuberosities, and even over the highest part of the bicipital groove. The head, appears to be in a line with the shaft of the bone, instead of being directed upwards, inwards, and backwards. The cartilage is more or less completely removed, the bone in some parts eburnated, in others porous. Nodnles of bone, vegetations, as Mr. R. Adams terms them, are thrown out aiound the margin of the head. The glenoid cavity of the scapula becomes much enlarged, and losing its oval shape assumes a more circular form. This, however, depends much on the position which the head of the humerus occupies. The depth of the articu- lar cavity is increased by osseous productions thrown out around its margins; its encrusting cartilage is removed, and the surface in part is covered by porcellaneous deposit, in parts remains porous. The enlarged head of the humerus comes into immediate contact, in many cases, with the under surface of the coraco- acromial vault, causing absorption and wasting of the tendons of the supra-spinatus and biceps, and the upper part of the capsular ligament. The acromion process, the outer extremity of the clavicle, and the coracoid process, in most cases become enlarged, though their under surfaces are worn and eburnated by the friction and pressure of the head of the humerus. Occasionally, however, they are found atrophied, or altogether removed. It is a remark- able circumstance, particularly noticed by Mr. R. Adams,—from whose article, in the “ Cyclop, of Anat. and Phys.,” we have taken the foregoing account,—that, in many cases the acromion process is traversed in the line of junction of its epiphysis, “ by a complete interruption of its continuity, as if fractured. This has been considered by several observers, as well as the destruction of the long tendon of the biceps, to be the result of accidental violence. Crifveilhier is quoted by Mr. R. Adams as describing the bones of the carpus, in a case of chronic rheumatic arthritis of the wrist- joint, to be so confounded together into an irregular mass that it was difficult to say which part each took in the construction of theCHRONIC RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS. 824 carpal region. The radius and the ulna undergo like changes to those which have just been described; the lower surface of the latter, confronting the cuneiform bone, becomes smooth and polished, the inter-articular fibro-cartilage having been removed. Minute Changes in CIivotlic Hheumatoid A-Ttlivitis.—The changes in this disease seem to depend mainly upon changes in the cartilage, paitly atrophic, partly hyperplastic. Considerable absorption of cartilage takes place, and this is described by Eindiieisch as i os lilting from a process such as we have called above atrophy, or usure of cartilage; consisting essentially in proliferation of the cartilage cells and fibrous change, followed by softening of the intercellular substance. This goes on in the more central parts of the cartilage, where they are exposed to most pressure. The simultaneous hyperplastic changes which take place in the peri- pheral parts were admirably described many years ago bv Hr. W. Adams; who showed that they consisted m (1) 1 ‘ Hypertrophy of the articular cartilage, generally occurring at the circumferential margin, hut occasionally taking place towards the central parts of the articular surfaces. The new growth of cartilage takes place principally, if not entirely, near to the articular surface.” It is very similar, though not quite identical with the original cartilage ; a fibrillated character of the matrix, and the scattered, solitary, or imperfectly-grouped arrangement of the nuclei being the principal points of difference. Eindfleisch describes it as that species of cartilage which is about to undergo ossification. (2) “In the development of true osseous tissue in the hypertrophied cartilage, ossification commencing either in the newly-formed cartilage, or at the junction of the new with the old cartilage. Ossification piroceeds more rapidly in the newly-formed and forming cartilage, (the growth of which is probably simultaneous with the advancing ossification) than in the old articular cartilage: so that considerable masses of new bone are formed, alteilng the configuration of the articular extremities, whilst a layer of articular cartilage remains in its normal position. More slowly, but as perfectly, ossification takes place in this imbedded layer of articular cartilage. The process resembles the normal process of ossification in temporary cartilage in the intercellular matrix being the primary seat of earthy impregnation, and in the enlargement of the cells in the immediate vicinity of the hone.” Although the opposed sur- faces of bone become worn away, no caries ensues, the surface being protected by indurative ostitis, which produces the well-known hard ivory-like investment. The pendulous bodies which surround the head of the bone are also, no doubt, in part, originally ecchondroses. Effects of Dislocations.—The most common cause of dislocations is a violent strain or injury to the part; but they may also come to pass spontaneously, either from abnormal relaxation of the * “ Report of the Pathological Society,” 1S50-51, vol. iii. p. 156.MORBID CONDITIONS OB' BURS-E. 825 ligaments, or from destruction of them in consequence of disease and muscular inaction. Dislocation, it is affirmed, may also occur congenitally. What we wish to notice here is, the changes which take place in the articulating surfaces, when a dislocation has taken place, and remained a long time unreduced. Rokitansky describes these as follows : “ The capsule becomes enlarged, and the place of its insertion altered; the articular cavities of the bones increase in size, and undergo various changes in form; and cor- responding alterations are produced in the articular heads or prominences. In other cases, in which the dislocation is complete, the capsule wastes, and the bony cavities diminish in size, or are filled with masses of new osseous substance ; the displaced head of the bone loses its character, and a new joint is formed. The cellular structures which surround the dislocated head inflame, and frame a new capsule around it, which, for the most part, fits closely, is of fibroid structure, and has a serous lining; whilst the pressure of the head, in its new position, occasions a shallow, articular excavation beneath it. In other cases, instead of an excavation beneath the head, a mass of callus springs up around it, and forms either a hollow to receive it, or a level surface, while the head may be flattened in order to fit; or, lastly, the callus may project, and that which was the articular head be excavated to receive it. Sometimes the quantity of new bone deposited around a dislocated head is very abundant, and retains it firmly in its place. In dislocations of long standing, the pressure upon the vessels and nerves interferes with the nutrition of the luxated bone, and, like the soft parts, it is found in a state of atrophy.” Morbid Conditions of Bursa.—These small synovial sacs are liable to be affected much in the same way as larger. They may be attacked by inflammation, more or less acute, or quite chronic, resulting from rheumatism, the abuse of mercury, or some other constitutional affection, or excited by violence, or long-continued pressure. The effusion which takes place may, in cases of a chronic kind, be a simple synovial or serous fluid; but when the inflammation is more acute, it is either a turbid serum, with flakes of fibrinous matter floating in it, or actual pus. Suppura- tion sometimes is produced artificially, for the purpose of causing the obliteration of the cavity of the bursa. The matter sometimes makes its way directly to the surface of the skin, and is dis- charged, but it often, also, escapes into the surrounding cellular tissue, and diffuses itself over a considerable extent. Sir B. Brodie describes this as being of common occurrence after inflammation of the bursa patellcO, so that an abscess is formed between the skin and the fascia, covering the whole of tho anterior part of the knee, and liable to be confounded with inflammation of the synovial membrane of the joint. When severe inflammation supervenes, after the puncture of a large bursa, so much consti- tutional disturbance is sometimes occasioned that tho patient dies.826 MORBID CONDITIONS OF BURS/E. Tliis is more likely to occur in persons who are in a bad state of health. The walls of an inflamed bursa sometimes become prodi- giously thickened by the organization of layers of fibrinous effusion. There is a specimen in the museum of St. George’s, in which the walls of an enlarged bursa patellae are more than half an inch thick, while the cavity, which is comparatively small, is traversed by reticulating laminee of false membrane. “ When the inflammation has been of long standing,” Sir B. Brodie says, “it is not unusual to find, floating in the fluid of the bursa, a number of loose bodies, of a flattened oval form, of a light brown colour, with smooth surfaces, resembling small melon-seeds in appear- ance. There seems to be no doubt that these loose bodies have their origin in the coagulated lymph, which was effused in the early stage of the disease; and I have had opportunities, by the examination of several cases, to trace the steps of their gradual formation. At first, the coagulated lymph forms irregular masses, of no determined shape, which afterwards, by the motion and pressure of the contiguous parts, are broken down into smaller portions. These, by degrees, become of a regular form, and assume a firmer consistence, and, at last, they terminate in the flat oval bodies which have been just described.” They are, there- fore, like one class of loose bodies in joints. The synovial sheaths surrounding the flexor tendons of the fingers, as they pass under the annular ligament, are not unfrequently the seat of increased secretion of fluid, and of the formation of small bodies, compared by Mr. R. Adams to grains of boiled rice. “ They are found in vast numbers in the same cyst, mixed with a more or less considerable quantity of glairy synovial liquid.’ . They occasion, as they move to and fro, a distinct sensation of frottement, and are quite identical with those described by Sir B. Brodie. . . What are called ganglions are small collections of fluids m bursal cavities of new formation. They are most frequent on the back of the wrist and forearm. They do not seem to arise from inflam- mation, but rather to be of the nature of simple cysts. They are slightly movable, indolent, and painless, and appear to be situated “ in the reticular tissue, which immediately covers the sheath of the extensor tendons.” To the latter they are connected firmly, to the skin but loosely. The consistence .of their contents varies from that of limpidity to that of thick jelly-like. matter. According to Velpeau, these cysts occasionally communicate wit-i the articular synovial cavity. » Some fluid of this kind, which we examined, was coagulated, in great measure at least, by Ditric acid; it contained a few nucleated granulous corpuscles.THE PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY OF THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. CHAPTER XLV. Congenital Malformations—There may be (1) deficiencies, (2) excessive development, (3) imperfect union of parts, (4) fusion of separate parts, (5) too early or too late development. 1. Defective formation is seen in imperfectly-formed monsters: in the occasional deficiency of a limb or limbs, of fingers, of vertebrae, or other single bones. 2. Excessive development in the occasional monstrous growth of particular bones or limbs, and in the production of supernumerary fingers or other parts. There must, of course, in both these cases, be some corresponding deficiency or excess of the soft parts. 3. Imperfect union of parts is seen in such deformities as cleft palate and spina bifida. 4. Fusion of separate parts is sometimes seen in the union of tones of two fingers or toes into one, or of the bones of the skull. •• Premature development occurs sometimes in the cranial bones and in those of the limbs, causing too early union of the sutures, and premature union of epiphyses ; retarded development is seen in the late closing of the fontanelles of the skull, and the late union of epiphyses in the long bones. Premature synostosis of the -ranial sutures is commonly regarded as a cause of small develop- ment of the head, or “microcephalism.” Dr. Langdon Down lowever, after examining 200 microcephalic skulls, contends that the sole cause is imperfect development of the brain, the sutures being generally unossified. INFLAMMATION OF BONE. This does not essentially differ from inflammations of soft parts though, of course, the naked-eye appearance presents certainINFLAMMATION OF BONE. 828 peculiarities. It is usual to classify the varieties of inflammation according to the part of bone affected—as ostitis, osteomyelitis, and periostitis ; the first denoting inflammation of the compact bony tissue ; the second specially referring to the medulla and cancellous parts of hone ; the last not only inflammation of the periosteum, but of what is practically almost inseparable from this, the contiguous part of the bone. Moreover, in each part of bone the inflammation may take one of two types ; it is either plastic, which in this case means tending to ossification and induration (sclerosis); or else destructive, that is generally suppurative (abscess); hut each of these passes through the same preliminary stage, now to be described. Earefactive Inflammation.—This variety or stage of inflammation is marked by absorption or rarefaction of the bone. Most pathologists regard the process of rarefaction as the necessary pre- liminary to either of the others. It appears to be strictly analogous to the physiological process by which the medullary cavity is hollowed out, and spongy, cancellated bone formed. The first appreciable inflammatory changes in bone, to use Mr. Groodsir’s words, “occur within the Haversian canals; these passages dilate, or become opened up, as may be seen on the surface of an inflamed bone, or better in a section. The result oi this enlargement of the canals is the conversion of contiguous canals into one cavity, and the consequent removal or absorption of the osseous texture of the part.” The whole tissue, conse- quently, becomes much lighter and more porous. The spaces formed by the enlarged canals, as also those formed, by absorp- tion of the intermediate material, become filled with granular tissue, composed chiefly of .embryonic cells. The further course of the inflammation depends upon whether these cells become formative cells (osteoblasts), or whether they degenerate into pus The naked-eye appearance of the bone in this condition is thus described by Mr. Holmes: * “ When the periosteum is stripped oil, the bone is seen to be irregularly vascular, some portions having a slightly red tint, evidently caused by the enlargement of the vessels which pass from the periosteum into the bone; and, with a magnifying-glass, tlie increased size of tlie vascular apertures is easily proved, while, if pressure be made on the surface of the bone, drops of blood will frequently ooze from the mouths of the enlarged vessels, proving their increase in size, as well as the loss of con- sistence in the outer hard wall of the bone.” Less obvious changes are perceived in the central parts of the bone. The spaces produce by absorption of the walls of the Haversian canals at length, how- ever, become visible to the naked eye, and spaces are seen m t e compact tissue like those in cancellous tissue, so that it is some- times said to become cancellous. Similar changes occui m e * “ System of Surgery,” 2nd edition, 1870, vol. iii. p. 733.829 PERIOSTITIS. cancellous tissue itself, whereby its cells become enlarged, and sometimes the whole bone becomes expanded by the simultaneous vieldhm of its walls, and sometimes so much softened as to crackle under pressure (Holmes). A bone m this condition, if macerated, shows a certain degree of osteoporosis. Seouelce of Rarefadive Inflammation -The process just described may it is probable, come to an end, and resolution take place, without further consequences. In such a case the bone does not, according to Forster, remain in the osteoporotic condition, but o-raduallv becomes filled up by the sclerotic process hereafter snoken of A more pronounced form of rarefactive inflammation, called fungous ostitis by MM. Cornil and Eanvier, must be very rare In General, the rarefactive process is only the first stage of a more enduring morbid process; and since the future course- of the inflammation differs according to the part affected, we must describe separately the periosteal, osteal and osteomyelitic afThe°different forms and results of inflammation of bone are thus summarized by Mr. Holmes:—The products of ostitis are divisible into two principal varieties; on the one hand the deposi- tion of earthy matter and formation of new bone; on the other hand suppuration. The former result terminates m hardening, or sclerosis the latter in a variety of conditions. When the suppura- tion is limited within a cavity, circumscribed abscesses are pro- duced- when the pus extends along the inner surface of the membrane lining the medullary cavity and cancelli, it produces the condition now known as osteomyelitis, formerly called “diffused suppuration in bone;” suppuration between the peri- osteum and bone forms periosteal abscess, acute or chronic; and any of these forms of suppuration, when accompanied by the insensible exfoliation of the bone, constitutes ulceration of the bone or caries. Lastly, inflammation of the bone sometimes leads to the death of larger portions of its tissue ; this constitutes gangrene of bone, or necrosis, which, however, like other forms of gangrene, is often produced by other causes not inflammatory. PERIOSTITIS. Acute inflammation of the membrane is characterized by a red blush, a humid succulent appearance, with much swelling and thickening of the membrane, and more or less of a serous effusion, causing a°slight separation from the bone. The periosteum may, as Lobstem* observes, be seen to present this condition in the vicinity of chronic ulcers or of old cicatrices. As the inflammation advances, the connection between the membrane and the bone becomes more lax, and the effusion may exhibit a purulent * “ Anatomie Pathologique,” vol. ii. p. 83.830 PEBIOSTITIS. character; or the separation may have been so sudden and exten- sive, especially in adynamic individuals, that, as Dr. Copland believes, before suppuration has time to supervene, gangrene of the periosteum and necrosis of the hone result. In chronic periostitis there is a much less vivid injection, hut the swelling is more considerable; the membrane appears dense, opaque, or granular, and is generally adherent to the bone. The outcome of simple periostitis is either suppuration or ossification. Periosteal Suppuration.—The periosteum may exhibit consider- able swelling and a high degree of inflammation before suppuration takes place; when it occurs, it is sometimes very rapid. Pus accumulates between the periosteum and the bone and in the layers of the membrane. In the former case superficial or total necrosis of the bone results. If a part only is affected, an area of super- ficially dead bone is found, limited on all sides by thickened and inflamed periosteum. If the suppuration be very diffuse, the whole shaft of a long bone, for instance, maybe separated from the periosteum. The resulting necrosis is not to be regarded as wholly caused by cutting off the blood supply of the bone; hence there is nearly always simultaneous inflammation of the subjacent bone tissue itself, or ostitis. It is probably not strictly correct to speak of the separation of periosteum from bone, except by violence, since, in cases of apparent separation by inflammation, the super- ficial layer of bone is removed with the periosteum. Periosteal Ossification.—It must be remembered that the formation of bone is, so to speak, a normal function of the periosteum, and this function is called into play either in the course of normal development, or to replace lost bone in normal conditions of the human body. In the lower animals, it has been shown by Ollier, to persist even in pieces of periosteum entirely detached from their original site and grafted in other parts of the body. The property seems to reside chiefly in the layer of formative cells (medullary cells of some authors) forming the deepest layer of periosteum, or sub-periosteal layer; but bone may be formed in the outer layers, or even in connective tissue. The reproduction of bone by the periosteum is always accelerated by hypersemia, and the state of intense activity which constitutes inflammation. Hence the ossification is commonly regarded as a result of inflammation. Inflammation of the periosteum leading to the formation of bone, may be distinguished as ossifying periostitis. It is seen in the repair of bone after injury, and especially after fracture, and also accompanying necrosis. Chronic periostitis tends to enlargement of the bone, unless necrosis of the latter intervene ; and, even then, the ultimate result is usually thickening. Numerous specimens exhibiting the process are to be found in our pathological museums. Moreover, a large number of the osteophytes and other osseous growths on bones are doubtless connected with periostitis. A remarkable fact connected with periosteal thickening is the occa-OSTEOMYELITIS AND OSTITIS. 831 gional formation of bone in the connective tissue near bone, though unconnected with it. These detached bony masses are called paros- tenl by Virchow. They may be compared with the islands of bone sometimes found in the tumours of the jaw called epulis (p. 536). Specific Forms of Periostitis.—Syphilis produces certain special forms of periosteal inflammation; others are attributed to rheu- matism ; and another has, from its indolent and degenerative character, received the name of scrofulous. The rheumatic and syphilitic forms chiefly affect the more super- ficial parts; the periosteum of the skull, the sternum, and. the tibia being the points most commonly attacked. Syphilitic in- flammation, or at least that which occurs in the course of syphilis, whether as a result of the virus or of the mercurial treatment, is apt to occur in numerous detached spots, at which tumefaction, in- duration, the formation of new osseous matter, sometimes leading to considerable thickening, and necrosis present themselves. The periosteal gummata will be spoken of in detail further on. Rheu- matic periostitis is more likely to occur in the vicinity of the joints, and is acute in its character. Chronic, so-called rheumatic, affec- tions have been described in speaking of joints. The strumous or scrofulous form of periostitis is that frequently met with in cachectic and scrofulous subjects ; it is of a sluggish character, causing greater thickening of the membrane and closer adhesion to the bone, followed by suppuration in the tissue, and underneath or upon it. Scrofulous periostitis is sometimes fol- lowed by exfoliations of the subjacent bone ; in these cases, there appears to be generally a coincident formation of new bone, suffi- cient to prevent not only a loss of strength, but even a deformity. One of the forms of so-called scrofulous periostitis not unfre- quently met with is that giving rise to the severer forms of panaritium or whitlow, the periosteum of the phalanges being the seat of inflammatory action. OSTEOMYELITIS AND OSTITIS. Osteomyelitis.— By this term is meant inflammation of the red osseous medulla and of the pulp contained in the cancelli of spongy bone, since these two are essentially the same structure. The constitution of the red pulp has only lately been carefully investi- gated. It is found to resemble in some respects the splenic pulp, being composed of lymphoid corpuscles and vascular tissue, which is callable of great and variable distension. It also contains large compound, or myeloid cells. It is probable that this is also one of the seats of formation of white blood corpuscles. By absorp- tion of fat it passes into the yellow medulla. With reference to its pathological appearance, it is im- portant to remember that simple redness or vascularity does not always indicate inflammation, since this is seen in some bonesOSTEOMYELITIS AND OSTITIS. 832 in atrophic conditions of the body, when the corpuscles waste and the vessels expand to fill their place. A creamy, or mottled con- dition, is seen, on the other hand, in conditions of abundant nutrition when the lymph corpuscles are veiy plentiful, as in the spleen in similar conditions. The signs of inflammation of the medulla are a vivid or scarlet injection, with purulent infiltration,* small spots of suppuration, or scattered abscesses. If the inflam- mation be intense the whole spongy tissue may be softened and break down at a touch, leaving a thin external shell of bone only. Part or whole of the fat is at the same time absorbed, so that we find red medulla at parts where yellow normally occurs. If localized this process may of course lead to abscess, identical with that described under the head of ostitis. This disease is of great importance, as it frequently leads to pyaemia, a fact easily understood, if we remember the intimate relations of the medullary tissue to the blood; and this, whether we suppose a specific poison to he present or not. This connection has been especially noticed in military surgery, f Ostitis.—The first stage of this form of hone inflammation has already been described. In its second stage it either passes on to hardening or sclerosis, or else to suppuration. The sclerotic ostitis consists of the formation of fresh layers of bone around the vessels. It must be regarded as essentially the same process as goes on in the ossification of vascular tissue without formation of cartilage. In bone thus affected the Haversian canals are found small, and the ftexture particularly hard and ivory-like. The spongy part of the bone may also be condensed by a similar pro- cess, new osseous matter being deposited on the inner surface of the cancelli; and may thus come to be quite as hard as the compact part of the bone. The medullary cavity may be partly filled up in the same way. This process is seen in the ends of long bones in chronic rheumatic arthritis, formerly described, also as an ac- companiment of other forms of inflammation of bone, and in some cases of repair, such as the closing of the medullary canal after amputation. Suppurative ostitis, or abscess, is developed out of the rarefactive stage of inflammation by filling of the dilated spaces and canals with pus. The partitions are gradually softened and break down, till a cavity is formed just as in abscess of soft parts. There may be very general suppuration, so that a con- siderable portion of the bone is destroyed; in which case it is always complicated with osteomyelitis; or else limited suppuration, forming an abscess cavity. The latter affection was first clearly distinguished by Sir Benjamin Brodie. In the first case recorded hy him the lower end of the tibia is described, as vascular on the surface and hardened around the cavity, which was smooth, and filled with dark coloured pus. There is a distinct pyogenic * See figure in “ Trans. Path. Soc.,” vol.xv). pi. 12. + Holmes, “ St. George’s Hospital Reports,” vol. l.; Medical Department,” vol. xiii. p. 244. but see “ Reports of the Army833 NECROSIS. membrane. These abscesses are small, and situated near the ends oaf the long bones. If the pus in them should become inspissated amd caseous, it would obviously become what is called a “ scrofulous (ileposit in bone.” The distinction between ostitis and osteomyelitis is by no means tclear. In ostitis the elements concerned are not the bone-cells, 1 mt the embryonic cells derived from the medulla, and these col- lected in large masses produce the changes of osteomyelitis, so thhat ostitis is myelitis of compact bone. On the other hand, •-hough we might speak of sclerotic or productive osteomyelitis forming bone in the medullary oavity, that process is more L'tften spoken of as ostitis. The embryonic cells may, in fact, in -Either case, degenerate into pus corpuscles, producing abscess, nr they may take the character of osteoblasts, and new bone be Fcormed. NECROSIS. By necrosis is meant the death of a portion of bone, just as in necrosis or gangrene of soft parts. The death of a portion of bone >s caused by some influence interfering with the supply of blood to it. The circulation may be interrupted by violent lesions, as fracture or crushing (by separation of the periosteum, it is supposed), by thrombosis or other obstruction of the nutrient artery, or, as '’orster says, by excessive cold or heat. This is known as primary necrosis. It may also be, and is much more frequently consequence of inflammation of bone in either of its three forms, sstitis, osteomyelitis, or periostitis. Special forms of necrosis are due to the poison of phosphorus, >rr to mercury in certain constitutions. These, as well as the ccrofulous and syphilitic forms, appear to be really consequences :f inflammation. Necrosis attacks chiefly the compact tissue, and is, therefore, most frequently met with in the shafts of long bones, from which 1; rarely extends into the epiphyses, though instances of its doing ) are on record, as in the case of the tibia ; in the instance from hioh Fig. 190 is taken, the process is seen to extend through the • eck of the femur into the head of the bone, and even to affect the inominatum. The relative frequency of its occurrence in different ones is stated to be in the following order:—The tibia, the femur, ue humerus, the cranial bones, the lower jaw, the last phalanx of >ie finger, the clavicle, ulna, radius, fibula, scapula, upper iaw Pelvic bones, sternum, and ribs. Dead bone is known by being white, opaque, dry, and sonorous ken struck ; also by being separated wholly or partially from its jnnection with surrounding parts. When exposed to the air Ji'en indirectly, it often becomes black or discoloured. It often baows traces of past inflammation; being either condensed i olerotic) or rarefied. 3 ii834 NECROSIS. Necrosis may be superficial or central, total or partial. The necrotic portion is not at first separated from the healthy or less altered hone ; but a process is set up which ends in its com- plete demarcation, like the inflammation which cuts off a gangrenous external part of the body. In the process of separation the following changes occur :—All round the necrosed portion, that is to say, at its margins and at the part where its surface is exposed to that of the healthy bone, the latter undergoes a gradual expansion, or rarefaction of its tissue, by the enlargement of its Haversian canals r assumes a rosy colour, and becomes succulent. It gradually acquires an areolar Era. 190. Necrosis of the head of the femur, acetabulum and shaft, subsequent to amputation. A. Necrosed acetabulum and head; completely ankylosed and broken off at e from the neck. /. Remains of the articular surfaces closely united, b. Neck and upper part of the shaft, a. New bone. b. New bone undergoing necrosis, c. Bone still con- taining blood-vessels, and in various stages of inflammation, d. A membranous septum, marking the boundary of the dead and living bone. structure, and is thus more rarefied; at length it disappears alto- gether, and a red, soft, spongy substance, a layer of granulations, occupies its place. This change is, in fact, inflammation of bone, which gives,rise to suppuration and granulation. The bony tissue, beginning with the Haversian canals, is dissolved by the matter secreted within them, while the granulations which continue to grow fill up the spaces thus left. The immediate result of this process is the formation of a furrow of demarcation, which encircles the margin of the dead bone, and is filled up with granulations and pus, till at length the sequestrum is separated from the surround- ing bone by a suppurating groove, which always communicatesNECROSIS. 835 with the surface by one or more openings, termed doacce. It is ivery rare for dead bone to he enclosed on all sides by living bone ; ^generally it is in contact with the periosteum on one side. The changes which this membrane undergoes accordingly become an : important factor in the separation of the dead bone. One of two events may happen; either the periosteum dies with the bone, in which case the dead surface of bone is ex- fposed, or it becomes thickened and undergoes ossification. In i rthe former case the limiting inflammation of bone is all that :is necessary for complete separation, and the dead bone exfoliates. Iln the latter case, not only is the dead bone cut off on the fperiosteal side, but a process of repair sets in by which the loss of i bone is replaced. The process is best seen when the whole or large ppart of a long bone suffers necrosis, specimens of which are to be ifound in all museums. Simultaneously with the formation of the furrow of demarcation ihetween living and dead bone, a similar space, filled with pus and sgranulations, is formed on the periosteal side, so that the perios- tteum is apparently detached, and the sequestrum isolated on all •sides. Billroth contends that the periosteum is not, strictly •speaking, detached from the bone, but that what occupies its place ds partly the superficial subperiosteal layer of bone, partly the eexternal layers of periosteum, while the intermediate or truly iifibrous periosteum simply perishes. Goodsir always held that ■some bone was detached with periosteum. However this may be, 'there is a thick structure in the place of periosteum, which, as it becomes separated from the bone, at the same time undergoes ossi- fication ; this process taking place, as Billroth states, also in the •adjacent connective tissue. In consequence, long before the dead bone is separated, there is a large amount of periosteal bony sgrowth, and ultimately, when the isolation of the sequestrum is ' complete, it is surrounded on all sides by a bony case, but sepa- rated from it by an intervening space, in which are pus and -granulations, and which communicates with the external surface by cloacte or sinuses. The new bone thus produced is at first '?Pongy or callus-like, but becomes denser, and ultimately strong enough to replace the perished shaft. This condition often necessitates surgical operation. If the ‘sequestrum be removed by art, the cavity in which it lay becomes tolled up by endosteal ossification; and what is practically a new •shaft, always larger than the original, and most probably always •solid, without any medullary cavity, is left. In other bones the details of the process will of course be different. A remarkable -instance of the capabilities of an unaided constitution occurred to i.os while investigating the effects of the powers of phosphorus in f producing rfecrosis of the maxilla. A man came under our notice, i:n whom tho destructive process had caused death of the body and T:ami of tho lower jaw to such an extent that the entire bone, with tshe exception of the condyloid processes, came to lie loose in the836 CAEIES. cavity of the mouth; a new jaw having, in the interval, formed underneath, and not, as is usually the case, as a capsule to the necrosed part. The patient’s mouth not being of sufficient size for the extraction of the hone, he sawed it across with his own hand, and then extracted it with ease. By the erosive action of the surrounding granulations, the mass of dead hone is to some extent diminished, and its surface becomes rough ; hut this alone is never sufficient to remove a sequestrum completely. In fact, the removal of absolutely dead bone has been denied by some pathologists, who believe that the space around the sequestrum is formed entirely at the expense of the surrounding bone. This point will be discussed under “caries.” The controversy i3 a very old one. Central necrosis means necrosis commencing in the inner part and spreading outwards, layer by layer. In this case dead bone may be enclosed in a shell of the original living bone; but this form is rare, and generally the external shell is of new formation, as described. CAEIES. The name caries is used to mean substantially the same as ulceration, that is, perishing of tissue and removal of the pro- ducts; but though we generally speak of ulceration only on a surface, caries of bone may be, though rarely, central as well as superficial. Some confusion has arisen from applying the term ■specially to scrofulous and syphilitic processes, which we shall speak of separately. Superficial ulceration (says Mr. Holmes) is distinguished by the following characters:—The periosteum is loosened from the surface, and, if the disease is advanced, will be found much thickened, and converted into a villous mass of a pink colour, resembling a layer of granulations. This substance adheres very loosely to the surface of the bone, and, when lifted up from it, is found to fit into depres- sions, which seem to have been hollowed out of the bone by the agency of the granulations. The bone at a very slight depth underneath, is found, in most cases of healthy inflammation, of the ordinary consistence of cancellous tissue, which it resembles in structure even in those parts which ought to be compact. The ulcerated surface is superficially excavated, much softened, and easily broken down. The interior of carious bone is softened by inflammation, its cancelli enlarged, and filled with the products of softening and disintegration. These products are principally oil globules, blood, and other debris of the soft tissues, and granular inorganic materials having the same chemical composition as the salts of bone. Caries is generally accompanied by more or less plastic or organizable effusion in the bone in the neighbourhood ofCABIES. 837 the ulcerated spot, leading to condensation of the deeper parts of the hone, and to periosteal deposit of bone on the surface. This is only seen in healthy or sthenic inflammations. Central caries in spongy bone begins with hyperEemia of the medulla, wasting of its adipose tissue, and production of pus corpuscles, but not in very great number, till a brownish red pulp is formed, and by absorption of the trabeculse, an excavation; which is distinguished from an abscess by not containing true pus. The process may then extend outwards, layer by layer, till the whole bon9 is destroyed (Forster). Granulations are sometimes formed which assist the absorption, or it may pass into actual suppuration. Necrosis may accompany either form of caries ; if on the surface, small fragments of dead bone are shed off; if in the substance, sometimes a larger necrotic portion is found in the middle of the carious mass. The surface, if exposed to the air, is often blackened. Caries affects particularly the cancellous bones, as the vertebrae, the epiphyses of long bones, the bones of the hands and feet; but the cranial bones are sometimes affected. It is almost always a chronic process, but some very rapid, almost gangrenous cases, have been called phagedenic caries. The effects of caries on the bones are very obvious in macerated specimens. The external shell is either destroyed, excavated, or perforated, the cancellated tissue rarefied, its partitions attenuated, and larger or smaller cavities formed, so that the whole has a ragged appearance. Sometimes, in consequence of simultaneous enlargement, the appearance is very much that of osteoporosis. Outgrowths of bone are sometimes seen around the carious patches. Minute Changes in Caries.—In all cases of absorption of bone, the surface on which absorption is taking place will be found hollowed out in hemispherical or curved depressions—the lacuna) first described byHowship. More minute excavations, seen under the microscope, give a concave sinuous outline to the edge of a section. These hollows are filled during life with granulation- tissue, and to this the most recent observers assign the chief part in absorption of the bone. This view is supported by the fact that, not only dead bone, but plugs of ivory driven into living bone, may be partially excavated and absorbed, and that on the surface of these plugs similar excavations are seen. How granula- tions absorb bone, we do not know. Virchow rejects this explanation, though admitting the excava- tion of ivory plugs by some such means. He believes that caries consists in a breaking up of the bone into its cell-territories, i.e., portions depending on each bone cell, and softening of these territories individually, while the cells, both of the bone and the medulla, proliferate and take on a new development; the inter- cellular substance being cast off in fragments. The lacunae are formed by softening of successive cell-territories. The process is838 CARIES. essentially (according to him) a degenerative ostitis, by which the osseous substance becomes converted into a soft uncalcified tissue, which may, according to circumstances, be either a degenerating mass with fatty elements, or a richly cellular structure with newly-formed elements. The latter may, like the medulla, become luxuriant in its growth, and proliferate on the surface in the shape of a granulation. The granulations, then, are to be regarded as originating in bony tissue.* Billroth, on the other hand, believes that the bone-corpuscles are simply passive till set free by the softening of the surrounding substance, when they may possibly proliferate ; but he regards the solvent action of granulations as a fact, though an unexplained one. It is probable that the process will be better understood when it is brought into connection with the physiological absorption of bone in the formation of medullary cavities or other hollows, and in the changes of form which bones undergo. These have been lately studied by Iv611iker,t who finds that in each of the Howship’s lacunas (which occur in normal absorption also) is a large com- pound cell, a myeloid or “ giant cell,” to which he gives the name of osteoclast. These osteoclasts he believes to be the essential agents in the process of absorption, with which the fixed bone cells have nothing to do; and this is shown by the fact that dead ivory pegs (as in the experiments of Langenbeck) become excavated with lacunae, containing osteoclasts. Similar cells have been found in provisional callus which undergoes absorption, and in bone which is wasted or absorbed through pressure (either from tumours, or produced artificially); but at present little has been done to connect these bodies with the process of caries and necrosis. Scrofulous Ostitis, or Caries.—The disease of bone, called scrofu- lous, though often taken as the type of caries, is in reality not quite so simple, and would be better called scrofulous ostitis. It has been regarded as tubercular. The affection, which we call scrofu- lous in the sense defined above (p. 91), is especially seen in the cancellous bone, and at the extremities of the shafts of long bones, whence it not unfrequently extends to the joints, producing the scrofulous or fungous arthritis already referred to. In early stages of scrofulous caries, the bone (says Mr. Holmes) “is soft, light, and oily .... the cancelli are large, and charged with a red jelly- like mass.” M. Banvier regards this as a preinflammatory stage, and dependent on the destructive fatty change in the bone cells. The inflammatory changes he regards as subsequent to these. But when once established the disease is essentially a degenerative inflammation, ending either in the production of a cavity con- taining curdy pus, which has the character called scrofulous, with few formed elements, and much molecular debris; or else by a *“ Cellular Pntbologie,” p. 523, 4th edition, 1871. ■t “Die normale Rcso'ption des Knochengewebes,” Leipzig, 1S73. “Quar. Jour. Jlic. Science,” xiii. SO; xiv. S7, eto.HYPERTROPHY AND ATROPHY. 839 probably slower process in the caseous infiltration of portions of cancellous tissue j or else in tbe necrosis of detacbed masses of bone, which become enclosed in a cavity. If the cavity open into a joint, something not unlike a pulmonary vomica is produced. Blond granulations often sprout from the edges, and condensation of the surrounding tissue is often seen, bometimes new bone is pio- duced from the periosteum ; as we have repeatedly seen in so-called scrofulous caries of the vertebrae. Calcareous infiltration of the pus or cheesy matter may take place, forming chalky masses, easily dis- tinguished from bone. Suppuration of the periosteum is very often induced, and chronic abscesses formed, of which a familiar instance is the well-known psoas abscess, extending from caries of the vertebrae. Such abscesses, wholly or almost healed, are sometimes found after death, containing cheesy or putty-like matter, formerly regarded as necessarily tubercular. Connection of Caries with Tubercle— Some pathologists, as for instance Nelaton, have spoken of this disease unconditionally as tubercular. Grey miliary tubercle is found only in the very rarest instances. Yellow matter, formerly called crude tubercle, is found, but by no means constantly, and of course is not necessarily tubercular. Tubercles are not found in the neighbourhood; so that the positive connection with tubercle is slight. On the other hand, the disease is not unfrequently associated with tubercular disease of other parts. Billroth found tubercular or cheesy pro- ducts in other parts of the body, occurring in 54 per cent, of his cases of caries. Mr. Haward’s statistics (“ St. George’s Hospital Beports,” vol. iv.) give a very different result; out of 134 cases of chronic bone and joint-disease in children usually called scrofulous, he found only seventeen with other signs of scrofulous disease, and only nine with signs of actual tubercle ; while, out of eighty- five cases of children admitted in the hospital for various tuber- cular diseases only one had any bone disease. Mr. Holmes thinks the masses called crude tubercle in bone are of inflammatory origin, and that rare as tubercle in bone is generally supposed to be, it is in reality still rarer. The question is evidently the same as that respecting the origin of cheesy masses in the lung, the lymphatic glands, the kidney, and other parts. HYPERTROPHY AND ATROPHY. It is doubtful whether true simple hypertrophy occurs, but enlargement of bones in all their dimensions is seen in rare cases as a sort of monstrous growth, without any obvious cause. Inequality of the sides of tho body, or of the parts of the hand or finger, results. Of course with this must be associated corresponding enlargement of the soft parts. Inflammation, both of the periosteum and of the substance causes overgrowth or hyper- ostosis, by which the bone is thickened without becoming necessarilyHYPERTROPHY AND ATROPHY. 21. t Viichow, “Krankli. Gcsclnv.,” vol. ii. p. 2 S40 Ion er or Wider. The surface is usually irregular, sometimes still turther complicated with bony growths, or osteophytes; and from in- • sclerosis> the bone is also often heavier. This is seen chiefly m the long bones of the limbs and in the cranial bones The process appears to resemble normal periosteal growth, consisting in the ossification of successive layers. Sometimes a process, which appears similar, opcurs without any inflammation, and under this head must be brought certain extraordinary cases of bony develop- ment, where thickening of the whole bone, without special growth on the surface, is observed.* Dr. Wilks records a case where the skull became i to ^ inch thick ; the femur measured 8| inches in circumference above the condyles, and weighed 2 lbs. 14 ozs. The piocess has a certain resemblance to osteoporosis, into which it is possible that Dr. Wilks’s case might have developed. A remarkable tabulated or botryoidal form of hyperostosis some- times attains a great size. It is composed of compact, though not necessarily ivory-like bone. It is chiefly seen in the cranial bones A remarkable instance, producing frightful deformity of the face is described and figured in the “ Pathological Transactions ” (vol! ■^u-P'■ 245). It affected, beside the cranium, the hyoid bone and the fibula. On the latter was formed a solid tumour, more than 5 inches in diameter. The monstrous deformity produced in such cases has led Virchow to propose for them the name Leontiasis ossea. Other celebrated cases are on record.! Simple elongation of the long bones appears to be the con- sequence of some inflammation occurring before growth was com- plete ; the permanent result of a temporary affection. In the le°- this usually depends on elongation of the lemur. Sometimes the tibia, without the fibula, is lengthened, and then necessarily becomes curved. Physiological hypertrophy is seen in cases of great muscular development, where the bones generally, and especially the ridges for attachment of muscles, are found enlarged. Hypertrophy of the skull-cap is frequently, though by no means invariably, a concomitant of wasting of the brain. It is also said to occur in persons who go bareheaded, from hypercemia of the scalp. Condensation of bone, from interstitial growth, must be considered a kind of hypertrophy. It usually results from some kind of in- flammation. This condition is seen in the “ eburnation ” of the articular ends of the bones, in chronic rheumatoid arthritis. We have another instance in the minute structure of gouty bone, where, as we are informed by Mr. Ure.J the Haversian canals are enlarged,’ and choked up with cretaceous matter, which also lines "the medullary canal; the osseous corpuscles are also found to be larger than usual, rather irregularly scattered, and less distinct, and their canaliculi loaded with chalk, which is shown by analysis * “Trans. Path. Soo.,” vol. xx. p. 273. i “Lancet,” 1817.841 OSTEOPOROSIS. to be true carbonate of lime, and not like the tophi of adjoining articulations, urate of soda. Atrophy.—Simple atrophy is less rare than simple hypertrophy; but this condition not unfrequently results from several causes. ‘‘Inflammation, fatty degeneration, disuse, or injury,” are men- tioned by Mr. Holmes. It is also distinguished as concentric atrophy, in which all parts of the bone waste equally, themedullary cavity becoming smaller at the same time as the walls become thinner; and excentric atrophy, in which the cavity enlarges at the expense of the external portions. The latter condition may be combined with or merge in that of osteoporosis. The condition known as concentric atrophy results in limbs from disuse, whether in consequence of dislocation, stiffness of the joints, ankylosis, or paralysis. Partial atrophy may be the result of fracture or other injury to the bone, as has been thought (though Mr. Holmes doubts this), from injury to the medullary artery. Excentric atrophy does not necessarily cause any diminution of the external dimensions, but the bone is rarefied; both the can- celli and the medullary cavit}^ being enlarged, and the partitions absorbed, while the external wall becomes reduced to a mere shell. In this condition the bone is extremely light and brittle ; the latter state has given rise to the name fragilitas ossium, and may give occasion to so-called spontaneous fractures. In flat bones all the cancellous tissue may be absorbed, and the tables come in contact. The causes of excentric atrophy are senile decay and various cachexise. It is usually accompanied by fatty degeneration, and the bones, when removed and macerated, are yellow and oily. This property is noticed by museum collectors in the bones of animals from menageries; which show also the results of muscular inactivity in the smooth surface, and wasting of the muscular ridges. Two peculiar conditions allied to atrophy must be spoken of separately—viz., osteoporosis and mollities ossium. OSTEOPOROSIS. In the rarefied state of bone to which the term of osteoporosis was given by Lobstein, the affected bone presents an increase of size, and a diminution of density, owing to the tissue being expanded ; the surface of the bone is irregular and very porous. When the bone is fresh, signs of hypermmia and inflammation are present, the medulla being vascular and rich in cells, the periosteum swollen’and injected ; but on macerating the bone its actual substance is found diminished, the gradual expansion inducing a thinning of the sur- rounding osseous layers, and eventually a communication between adjoining cavities. The condition may affect the compact or can- cellous tissues alone or together. When the cortical layers are the seat of the change, the appearances may induce the resemblance of caries. Lobstein describes the surface in this case as bein^ coveredMOLLITIES OSSIUM. 842 with, a multitude of longitudinal fibres, resembling those of a fcetal skull. He attributes them to the development and the action of the periosteal vessels, which hollow out for themselves channels in the osseous substance. When this variety of cortical rarefaction is raised above the surrounding tissue, it resembles one form of osteophyte, and many of the preparations of caries preserved in museums are referable to the same head. The rarefaction of the osseous tissue, which constitutes osteoporosis, though often inducing a considerable increase of bulk, is essentially distinct from the process giving rise to the formation of exostosis, in which the generation of new osseous matter is the characteristic feature; the former being essentially an atrophic, the latter an hypertrophic condition. The term spina ventosa, though one which has nothing but the prestige of antiquity to recommend it, is applied, among others, to affections belonging to the class just considered. We will not seek to perpetuate it by defining its characters, as it is an arbitrary designation, without any acknowledged and established meaning. There appear to be two chief forms of this disease, (a) That in which the distinction of medullary cavity and compact substance is lost, all being converted into a spongy or cancellated structure. This may affect part or whole of the bone. (6) In another form the medullary cavity remains, but the shell is con- verted into a thick mass of spongy substance. Enormous spongy expansion of particular parts is sometimes produced by cancers or other tumours, which will be spoken of again. MOLLITIES OSSIUM. Mollifies ossium, osteomalacia, or malacosteon, is a disease regarding which the views of authors differ ; though it is no doubt essentially distinct from other known osseous maladies. It is a very rare complaint. The disease consists, as the term indicates, essentially in a soften- ing of the bones, brought about by an absorption of the earthy matter, and the substitution of a large quantity of fat or gelatinous material. It is an entire perversion of the process of nutrition, in as far as regards the skeleton, the earthy phosphates being elimi- nated from the system by the kidneys, and necessarily induces great pliability and fragility of the bones. Lactic acid has recently been detected both in the bones themselves, and in the urine of persons affected with this disease. The bones are so much weakened that so-called spontaneous fractures often occur. Kilian * treats of mollifies ossium as presenting two varieties— the waxy (cerea), and the fragile (fractuinsa). In the former, the bones generally, but especially those of the pelvis, present a dirty dark-yellow colour. They lose their transparency in the middle, * “ Beitrag zu einer genaueren Kenntnissder allgcmeitienTvnochenerweichungv &c., Bonn, 182!); and “ Die Geburtslehre.” &c., vol. ii. p. 867, 1810.843 MOLLITIES 0SSIU1T. while their -weight is not much diminished, and they become flexi- ble, like wax; in the second, the bones present a snowy whiteness, and a light, transparent, open texture, rendering the bones so fragile that they give way under the mere pressure of the finger. The first kind of bones do not dry clean, but remain greasy, the second dry quickly, and give no greasy feel. Both varieties, according to Kilian, exert the same influence upon the pelvis in regard to the distortions that are produced. These he describes as consisting in angular deflections of the individual bones, and a mutual approximation of the bones in the conjugate and transverse diameters. If Professor Kilian’s view regarding the two species of the malady be correct, it is probable that they would be distin- guished by their chemical constitution, and this may be assumed as the reason why the chemical analyses of the bones affected with osteomalacia have yielded results so widely apart. Thus, in one of the two remarkable cases del ailed by Mr. Solly,* the analysis of the affected bone by Dr. Leeson showed 100 parts to contain— Animal matter. ..... 18-75 Phosphate and carbonate of lime . . 29-17 Water 52-08 100-00 The chemical examination of a case (detailed by Dr. Eamsbotham, in the “Reports of the Pathological Society”)! by Dr. Garrod, yielded— Patty matter 20-35 Gelatine yielding matter. . . . 58-37 Carbonate and phosphate of lime, and phosphate of magnesia . . .21-28 100-00 In the former analysis, we see nearly eight parts more earthy matter than in the latter; nor can it be objected that the analyses were made at different stages of the disease, because, in both instances, the patients from whom the specimens were taken had succumbed to the malady. The analysis given by Dr. Bostock reduces the amount of earthy matter to a yet lower figure. In a specimen that he examined, lie found the proportion to be, in 100 parts of bone— Jelly and oil ..... 22-5 Cartilage ! 57-25 Earthy matter 20-25 The microscopical appoaranco of the bone, according to Rind - * “ Med.-Chir. Trans.,” vol. xxvii. p. 435. t “ Reports,” &c., vol. xxv. 1847-4S.844 HOLLITIES OSSIUJI. Fir,. 191. fleisch, is as follows:—The trabeculae (of the cancellous portion; show only a central axis which still retains the perfect bone struc- ture. Outside this is a zone of fibroid material, with hardly visible bone corpuscles, having precisely the appearance of bone decalci- fied by hydrochloric acid ; and it is plain that a process of decal- cification spreads from the medullary and cancellous cavities into the solid bone. The tissue thus decalcified is partly absorbed, partly softens into a mucous or colloid material, which with fat occupies the place of the removed bone tissue. The medullary tissue is described by Bindfleisch as extremelv vascular, with dilated vessels, and showing occasional htemorrhage, but with no proliferation or special change in the medullary cells; the general appearance being rather that of passive than of active congestion. From the Haversian canals the process spreads outwards, and from the cancelli and from the medullary cavity also out- wards, till only a thin shell of bone is left, which perhaps escapes because nourished by the periosteum. It seems, then, that the process is clearly one connected with the medulla, though precisely in what way is not known. As the bones of the trunk are espe- cially liable to be attacked, the indi- vidual affected becomes reduced in size from the collapse of the vertebral column. A tall subject may thus be converted into a dwarf; an instance of which we had an occasion of seeing in the Clinique of Professor Kilian, of Bonn. The individual was a married woman whose stature had diminished in this manner, and was doubly inter- esting from having in this condition become the subject of a successful Caesarean operation. It was subse- quent to her recovery from this ordeal that we saw her, and that she was sup- posed to be again pregnant. Dr. Greenhalgh enabled us to examine a similar instance, in which the disease was also followed by contraction of the pelvis, rendering the Caesarean section necessary. Adults, and especially females, are the subjects of the malady. It attacks women chiefly after they Section of a femur from a lady, aged thirty, affected for some years with mollities ossium. The walls of the bone are thin, soft, and flexible ; the place of its medullary and cancellous tissue is occupied by soft jelly- like transparent matter of various shades, of yellow and pink, some of it deep crimson ; a similar kind of fat appeared to be diffused through the proper texture of the walls. (St. Bartholomew’s Museum, i. 233.)EHACHITIS, OR RICKETS. 845 have commenced child-bearing, Mr. Curling* has collected six- teen cases, thirteen of which occurred in females, and three in males. Eleven were fatal between thirty and forty. In none it showed itself before puberty; but two patients were above fifty years of age. Several of them were delivered of children during the progress of the complaint. It is not associated with any particular lesion of the viscera; neither can an hereditary or idiopathic taint, or diathesis, be traced, by which the peculiar symptoms could be explained or referred to a known type. It seems probable that certain cases of so-called mollities ossium are essentially primary cancer of the skeleton. We have ourselves seen a case of this kind. In a well-marked instance of mollities ossium, of which the history was given to the Medico-Chirurgical Society by Dr. T. K. Chambers,! and which occurred in a female, aged twenty-six, the bones throughout the system were soft and yielding, so that a sharp knife could readily pass through them. A peculiar cystic condition of bone is thought by Rindfleisch to be possibly a sequel of mollities ossium. The formation of cystic cavities is stated to represent a stage in the development of that disease at which arrest of the morbid process takes place. This cystic degeneration affects those parts of the skeleton, and only those, previously affected by mollities ossium.. EHACHITIS, OR RICKETS. Rickets differs from scrofulous affections in this respect, that while frequently associated with inflammatory conditions, it is not essentiaUy an inflammation; one of its symptoms is a diminution of the consistency of the osseous texture, but it does not exclu- sively consist in rarefaction of the bone ; nor does it manifest those organic and chemical changes which constitute the peculiar disease known as mollities ossium. Owing to one feature having been regarded by different observers as characteristic of the disease, analogies have been repeatedly set down as proofs of identity’. While a general debility is the chief constitutional feature of the disease, a deficiency in the earthy matter of the bones is one of the chief local phenomena, yet the ricketty bone is not simply a soft bone; but it undergoes, during the development and sub- sidence of the disease, a series of curious and somewhat complex changes, ihe affection is especially one of early childhood; the fii st symptoms may be seen as early as four months old, but are not usually conspicuous till towards the end of the first, or in the second year. Guerin found, that of 346 cases, 209 were affected between tho first and third years; only three wore congenital; * “ Med.-Chir. Trans.,” vol. xx. p. 836. + “Medical Times and Gazette,” March 25th, 1851,846 RHACHITIS, OR RICKETS. and thirty-four occurred between the ages of four and twelve; 148 were males, and 198 females. The alleged congenital occurrence of rickets requires confirmation. Before any distinct changes in the skeleton take place, other symptoms of cachexia are seen, admirably described by Sir W. Jenner,* in his classical Lec- tures on Rickets, but which do not concern us here. The alterations of bony struc- tures are chiefly the follow- ing:—(1) Enlargement of the ends of the long bones, that is, of the end of the diaphysis next to the cartilage, in the bones of the limbs ; of the part next to the costal cartilages in the ribs. (2) General softening of all the bones. (3) Thickening of the flat bones, i.e., the bones of the skull, the scapulte, and the pelvic bones, (4) Deformities, produced by mechanical causes acting on the softened bones, such as curvatures of the spine and the long bones, and altera- tions in the shape of the thorax and pelvis. (5) Arrest of growth, both of the bones and of parts anatomically or physiologically correlated to them. (1) The enlargement of the ends of the bones may be con- siderable. In one of Sir ~W. Jenner’s cases the circumference of the wrist was equal to the length of the forearm, each being 41 inches (in a child 30 inches high; three years and two months old). The parts thus enlarged are normally somewhat prominent in children, in consequence of the process of ossification which is going on; but the rickety enlargement is generally characteristic. The adjacent cartilage is always somewhat enlarged also on the side next the bone. (2) There is, undoubtedly, some general softening of the bones, due apparently to a deficiency of lime, and by this their curvature is made possible. Virchow, however, alleges that any consider- able curvature in the shaft is always due to some fracture. Rickety bones have been found to contain only 21 per cent, of • “ Medical Times and Gazette,” 1860, vol. i. Pig. 192. Section cut with a knife of the femur of a rickety child. The shaft consists throughout of cartilaginous and gelati- nous substances, intermixed and disposed in cells ; it is observable that a greater quantity of cartilage exists in the middle of the shaft and towards the interior curve than at any other part. (St. Bartholomew’s Museum, i. 34.)847 RUACHITIS, OR RICKETS. mineral matter, while the bones of healthy children should contain 37 per cent. (Jenner). (3) Thickening of the fiat bones is due, precisely as in the swelling of the ends of long hones, to hypertrophy of the medul- lary pulp, and expansion of the cancellous tissue. The substance of the bone seems mainly to consist of diploe (Aitken). In the cranial bones it makes the sutures appear like deep furrows. It has been supposed that this diminishes the capacity of the cranium. The fontanelles are always late in closing’. A peculiar form of disease of the cranium has been described by Elsasser,* as occurring in rhachitis, and characterized by softening, thinning, and perforation of the occiput. The bone is atrophied, soft and porous; and numerous openings are observed along the lamb- doidal suture, and in the body of the bone, with the exception of the occipital protuberance. The perforations may amount to as many as thirty ; and, in place of bone, they are filled up only by the dura mater and pericranium, which are adherent to one another. The affection commonly manifests itself between the third and sixth month of infant life; the child exhibiting much restlessness, and a fear of all contact with the occiput. (4) The deformities produced by rickets are very important. They may be temporary or permanent. Of the long bones, those of the lower limb are most conspicuously affected. The femur is often curved, usually with its convexity outwards, sometimes the contrary; sometimes the bone curves forward with the con- vexity in front. The beginning of this is seen sometimes before a child walks, and is attributed to the weight of the legs and feet. It increases if the weight of the body is carried on a limb not yet rigid. The curve of the tibia is also usually convex outwards, an exaggeration of its normal curve. When with these curvatures, there is change of direction at the softened epiphysial junction, the whole limb may be curved, forming bandy legs. Sometimes the opposite condition, knock-knee, is seen. Similar curvatures of the bones of the arm are less easy to explain ; they are thought to be partly produced by the child supporting its body on its hands in crawling. The attachment of muscles is also, in some cases, the explanation. Thus Sir W. Jenner points out that the humerus is often bent at an angle just at the insertion of the deltoid, simply from the weight of the forearm and hand, when the limb is raised by that muscle. Deformity of the thorax is caused by falling in of the ribs alon°- a curved line or furrow, just outside the hue of union of rib and cartilage. It is formed by the drawing in of the ribs in inspira- tion, at the point where they are weakest. It has the effect of carrying the sternum forward, and producing “ pigeon breast ” The lower ribs are prevented from collapsing by the resistance of ZUI Phy8iol°eie und Tatliologieder erstenRHACHITI8, OR RICKETS. 848 the liver and spleen. By these alterations, the capacity of the thorax is greatly diminished, and dyspnoea results. The clavicles are very frequently deformed, being bent at an angle in two spots, one near the attachment of the pectoralis major and sternomastoid, the other near the acromio-clavicular articulation. The former is attributed to muscular action in raising the arm, and also to bearing the weight of the body on the arms: Curvature of the spine is chiefly in the lumbar region, or general. If the latter, it extends from the first dorsal to the last lumbar vertebrae, and is an exaggeration of the natural curve iu children that have not begun to walk. Sometimes a concave curve in the lumbar region is associated with convexity (backwards) in the dorsal. This is in children that have begun to walk, and is an exaggeration of the natural double curve of the spine. Angular curvature does not occur ; lateral is rare. The distortions of the pelvis resulting from rhachitis are next in importance to those of the thorax. The irregularities of the pelvic diameters due to this disease are caused by lateral contraction, bv an ajjproximation of the acetabula, by antero-posterior narrowing, from an advance of the sacrum, or by an asymmetrical deformitv, due to an arrest in the growth of one half of the pelvis. In all these cases the mechanism of parturition will be interfered with in proportion to the amount of malformation, and it is the brim which will be found to be chiefly at fault, though each part indi- vidually, or all collectively, may be involved in the deformity. “In most cases of partial deformity at the brim,” observes Br. Ramsbotham,* “the lateral diameter is increased in size nearly in the same proportion as the conjugate is diminished : but however much the width from ilium to ilium may exceed the ordinary dimensions, the increased space thus obtained will in no degree make amends for the diminution from the sacrum to the pubes ; because it is necessary that there should not exist less than a certain quantity of available room in every direction to permit the child’s transit.” From the sacrum having to support the entire spinal column, the lower lumbar vertebrae and the base of the sacrum are very apt to be thrown forward where there is deficient cohesion, and the consequence will be a diminution of the conju- gate diameter. In this case the diameter of the outlet is frequently found enlarged. The ilia will not present the usual expansion, the crests of the ilia will be nearer to one another than in a normal pelvis, and the female will probably also present a hollow-backed appearance. The sacrum is commonly deprived of its concave form, and exhibits a more rectilinear anterior surface, or as Smellio has observed, the vertebrae that compose it ride over one another, and form a protuberance in the part that ought to be concave. These malformations causo those varieties in the form of the * “The Principles and Practice of Obstetric Medicine,” p. 39.849' MINUTE CHANGES IN RICKETS. pelvis which have been termed the elliptical, heart, or kidney- shaped, or figure-of-eight pelves. An oblique form in which the ilio-pectineal eminence of one side approaches nearer to the pro- montory on one side than on the other, was first shown by Nagele to result from ankylosis of one sacro-iliac symphysis; these pelves present a very characteristic appearance, and look as if one half of the pelvis and the acetabulum had been forcibly pushed over to the opposite ilium; hence the diameter from the sound sacro-iliac union to the opposite acetabulum will be very much diminished, while the interval between the ankylosed symphysis and the other acetabulum will be not only not diminished but even increased. An excellent delineation of this and several other forms of distorted pelvis are to be found in Dr. Eamsbotham’s “ Atlas of Midwifery.” The rickety distortions of the pelvis are probably never met with unaccompanied by spinal curvature; though the latter may occur without materially influencing the pelvic diameters. (5) The arrest of growth is a very striking phenomenon. Rickety children, though they may quite outlive their complaint and become strong and muscular, never become tall. Their short stature depends not only on curvature, but on actual shortness‘of the bones from arrest of growth. MINUTE CHANGES IN RICKETS. When the swollen end of a bone in rickets is cut into we see the chief morbid appearances at the junction of the bone and the carti- lage. Here there is normally in children a transition zone, made up partly of altered cartilage, which is bluish, and partly of red spongy tissue. This zone is immensely enlarged. The changes in the cartilage are found to extend over perhaps twenty or thirty rows of cartilage capsules, instead of one row as usually. The spongy tissue forms a layer several times as broad as it does normally; it contains in its meshes a red pulpy matter, which appears to be the ordinary red medulla, increased in quantity and altered in structure. Moreover, the line of junction, usually uniform, is very irregular; so that at some points cartilage dips deep down into the ossifying zone, while at another calcified portions appear in the middle of the cartilage. The existence of this broad band of flexible uncalcified tissue, at the junction of the epiphysis, is one cause of the distortions which rickety bones undergo. Examination of the altered zone of cartilage shows that, though so much wider than the normal zone of altered cartilage, the changes in it are essentially the same, the cartilage capsules showing proliferation and being arranged in long rows, as they usually are preparatory to ossification. The spongy tissue, beside its red pulp, is made up of trabeculae, arranged in the same’wav ns in cancellous bone, but of different structure. They are composed of 3 iMINUTE CHANGES IN BICKETS. 8o0 a tissue formed out of cartilage, which may he called osteoid carti- lage, containing rows of proliferating cartilage cells, and angular corpuscles with some resemblance to bone corpuscles, hut without canaliculi. The intervening substance is often calcified (as are sometimes the corpuscles themselves), a fact to which Sir W. Jenner attaches much importance. This is calcified cartilage, a very different thing from bone. Kolliker, however, who has been followed by Yirchow and Kindfleisch, alleges that there is a direct transformation of this cartilage into bone. This hypothesis is contrary to what the latest researches teach us to believe respecting the ossification of cartilage, and must be regarded as doubtful. The actual process of bone formation, when the rickety changes come to an end, is not known. Some of the trabeculce appear simply fibrous. With respect to the red m'edullary pulp, much of this is normal in structure; but a fibrous transformation of it into connective tissues is described as occurring in some parts, which gives rise to what Yirchow calls osteoid tissue, regarded by him as the prelimi- nary stage of bone-formation. In the periosteum we see the same fact as at the boundary line between bone and cartilage, namely, a great extension of the belt of vascular and embryonic, or granulation-like tissue, which is normally found in periosteal ossification. So vascular and soft is this tissue, that it was formerly imagined to show haemorrhage between the bone and periosteum. This tissue changes into bone by the usual method of ossification in vascular tissue; but the bone formed remains, according to Rindileisch, for a long time in a rudimentary condition, like an osteophyte, and is gradually changed into perfect bone. As the thickness of ossifying tissue is here much greater than normal, we see why the boues should be. during the process of ossification, and even permanently, thickened. These changes may be summed up as showing an abundant formatiou of the materials which precede ossification, but no bone production. Nor is this simply due to absence of lime, since this is deposited, though not in the right way to form bone.CHAPTER XLYI. ADVENTITIOUS GROWTHS IN BONE. EXOSTOSES. Osseous growths, consisting of true bone, are divided into exostoses and osteophytes ; the difference being marked raiher by their form and their cause, than by the etymology of the terms, or their proximate constitution. Rokitansky defines exostosis as a purely bony mass, set upon a hone, forming with it an organic whole, and, where it is possible, originating or pro- ceeding from the hone; when its development is complete, and often at the beginning of its growth, its texture is homologous with that of its base and point of origin, whether compact or spongy. The former is the most frequent; and it attains a hard- ness which has given rise to the term of ivory exostosis ; while its colour is generally whiter than that of the hone from which it springs. Of the density of these exostoses, the best proof is that operators are sometimes unable to remove them; in St. George’s Hospital Museum we find an exostosis from the orbit which sloughed off on the application of caustic, though Sir Astley Cooper had previously failed in sawing it off; there is another specimen in the same museum, about one inch and a-half in diameter, which took one hour to remove, and more than one saw was spoiled during the time. The exostosis may he entirely sessile, or it resembles a mushroom in its mode of growth, pre- senting a constriction at its base, which, though it may penetrate deeply, is so fine as to be imperceptible during life. The surface of these exostoses is smooth, and their outline is commonly a segment of a circle, or of an ellipse their cause is an idiosyncrasy of the individual not referable, as far as we can trace, to any definite constitutional taint. Some of the hard exostoses we meet with are manifestly mere hypertrophies of the normal prominences of the bone upon which they are seated; thus we see the tuberosity of the tibia, the styloid process and similar parts, give rise to these formations. The bones of the skull are the most ordinary site of hard852 EXOSTOSES. Fig. 193. exostoses ; they aro also seen in the long bones, and in the pelvis where they may prove an obstacle to parturition. The micro- scopic appearances are described by Rokitan- sky as exhibiting a very considerable num- ber of peripheral lamelhe, in which long corpuscles are observed. The Haversian canals are small, and far apart, many of them being surrounded by a distinct and isolated system of lamellse; large tracts present no corpuscles, while at other spots they are clustered together in dense groups. No other tissue is discoverable in the ivory exostosis. Spongy exostoses differ from the compact variety, in being composed of cancelli, con- taining medullary matter, and surrounded by a shell of bone ; they vaiy much more in size and outline than the former ; they spring from the cancellous or compact tissue of the bone, and their surface is continuous with that of the latter. In some cases themedul- lary cavity of the bone is immediately con- tinuous with that of the exostosis, so that this resembles a diverticulum. In other cases it is separated by a layer of compact bone, as was the case in an instance which was exhibited at the Pathological Society of London,* in 1850, and which was remark- able both on account of its size, and because the base and pedicle were compact, while the remainder was cancellous. The spongy exostosis occurs at all periods of life—when it has attained a certain size it generally remains permanent. Rokitansky describes a process of condensation alternating with one of rarefaction ; it is by the latter that he considers the growth of the spongy exostosis outwards to be chiefly affected. This form of exostosis is sometimes mul- tiple, forming on many bones at once, as if from some constitutional cause. In a case observed by the Editor, spongy growths were found on every bone of the body except the skull, sternum, and the hands and feet; and in most at two spots, i.e., at each extremity of tho shaft of the long bones and of the ribs. They were quite unconnected with the epiphysis or with the cartilage.t Spongy exostosis on the femur, -with a broad base and pointed processes di- rected downwards ; the section shows a cancel- lous structure, surrounded by a shell of compact bone. The walls of the femur and the medullai y cavity, in the situation of the exostosis, are per- fectly sound. (St. Bartholomew’s Mu- seum, i. 186.) * Report for 1850-51, p. 140. + “Trans. Path. Soc.,” vol. xxiii. p. 208. A similar ease in Virchow, “ Krankhaffce Geschwulste,” vol. ii. p. 83.8.33 OSTEOPHYTES. The osteophyte was first characterized by Lobstein as a bony vegetation which grows from the surface of the bone, or encircles the articulations, and offers the most varied forms. It is dis- tinguished by Forster from exostosis as being a superficial rough, lamellated, or splintery growth, extending over a considerable area, and differing in texture from the adjacent bone, and not continuous with it, but appearing rather as if cemented to it by subsequent growth. The osteophyte chiefly affects the more vascular portions of bones, as their articular ends, their rough lines, or, in the skull, the sutural cartilages; because, as Roki- tansky remarks, it is generally the product of an inflammatory process in the superficial part of the bone, and in the periosteum ; and hence it is very commonly found adjoining and surrounding not only portions which are inflamed, carious, or necrosed, but also spots of bone affected with various other diseases, which in some stage of their exist- ence have occasioned a reaction in the tissue of the bone. Thus we may refer the osteophyte, in an individual case, to simple inflamma- tion, to rheumatic or gouty inflam- mation, to syphilis, to new growths, or other causes. The diffused and fibro-reticular osteophyte of Lobstein, or what Rokitansky terms the velvety villous osteophyte, forms an osseous layer investing a bone that is otherwise healthy, sometimes removable, some- times firmly soldered to it; it com- monly presents the colour of the bone, or it may be discoloured ; by a lens it is found to present a furrowed surface, or to be composed of minute upright spicuho ; the small channels which separate the osseous ridges being in the direction of the vessels of the periosteum. This variety is a very common accompaniment of in- flammatory affections of the bone—it is the one which Rokitansky has observed to occur in the skull in females dying shortly after parturition, and which he has therefore called the puerperal osteo- Fig. 191. Osteophytes, occupying the lower end of the femur. The whole ex- terior of the bone is roughened by the growth of irregular plates and pointed processes of osseous sub- stance. A large canal, formed by ulceration, passes through the bone just above the condyles ; around the lower part of each condyle is a broad rim of new bone. From a man, aged thirty-five, with long- standing disease of the bone. (St. Bartholomew’s Museum, i. 201.)So i ENCHONDBOMA. phyto. The layer of new bone, lie says, varies in thickness from a very thin film to half a line, and more : generally occupies the frontal and parietal bones, but is sometimes found covering the whole inner surface of the cranial vault, and scattered in patches over the base of the skull. But the connection of this growth with the puerperal state is very doubtful. Rokitansky’s second variety of osteophyte is the splintered or laminated form, presenting itself in excrescences and lamelhe several lines in length, of a conical shape, and terminating in a sharp point, which are found chiefly in the neighbourhood of the cancellous parts of bone affected with caries. The next form of osteophyte which we have to consider is that which appears to be mainly the result of chronic rheumatic arthritis; it is distinguished by forming excrescences of a warty and stalactitic character, which are developed in the vicinity of joints of persons labouring under this disease; the articular sur- faces may be partially absorbed and present patches of enamel- like deposit, while the new osseous formations are thrown out, as it were, to support the defective mechanism. The osteophyte pro- duced under such circumstances sometimes surrounds the joint and gives rise to a bony ankylosis. The bodies of the vertebrae are frequently found united to one another by osseous vegeta- tions, extending over two or more bones, like bridges; they are analogous to the callus uniting fractures, but appear to be the result of some constitutional cause. Similar bony ridges are also observed to form between the ribs. The cauliflower osteophyte is described by Lobstein as a large sessile tumour, which is more or less compact at the base, and becomes spongy towards the surface, sometimes attaining the size of the head of a seven-months’ child. It may arise from periosteal bony growth, or occasionally merely forms an ossification of the stroma or fibrous envelope of some form of morbid growth, as scirrhous, fibrous, fungous tumours, and the like. Lobstein’s general theory of osteophytic growths is, that they consist mainly of an ossification of the tissues surrounding the bone; according to this view, the diffused osteophyte is nothing but ossification of the cellular tissue, uniting the periosteum to the bone; the fibro- reticular osteophyte an ossification of the periosteum itself, the flat and styloid form the ossified tendinous and aponeurotic fibres, while the variety now spoken of and that causing ankylosis is attributed to ossification of the intermuscular cellular tissue; he denies the inflammatory origin of the malady, and sets it down to a morbid hypertrophy. EUCHONDBOXTA. The abnormal cartilage formed in connection with bone or enchondroma consists essentially of the same chemical and micro-ENCHONDROMA. 855 scopio elements, as true cartilage. It occurs more frequently in bone than in any other physiological tissue ot the body, the bones of the fingers and toes being chiefly liable, though the ribs, vertebrae, and sternum are not exempt; and cases are recorded where the skull, the ilium, and the long bones have been attacked. The characters of euchondroma have already been described (p. 141). l'he enchondroma is nearly always radically cured by amputa- tion, but rarely gives rise to secondary growths. The tumour may originate within the substance or on the surface of the bone; the former being called central, the latter peripheral, enchondroma. The rapidity and extent of its growth varies, but generally it is of slow progress, and does not exceed the size ot an orange. When seated within the bone, the latter gradually Fig. 195. Enchondroma. Portion of the tumour removed from the lumbar vertebrse of a soldier, comisting of nodules of cartilage of various forms, with the microscopic features of foetal cartilage. In the centre of some of the nodules there are small por- tions of cancellous bone ; the centres of other's are softened. (St. Bartholomew’s Museum, xiv. 2.) expands with the development of the tumour, yet it is unaccom- panied by pain or disorganization of the adjoining parts; when external to the bone it exhibits a lobulated arrangement, and is surrounded by a fibrous sheath. The central variety is met with chiefly in the bones of the hands and feet; it presents a semi-elastic feel, and, on section, the knife passes through a thin crackling shell of bone, and then exhibits a white cartilaginous mass, which is occasionally found to contain some small cells, while in some tumours there is an interlacement of fibrous tissue, in which the cartilage is imbedded, thus approxi- mating to fibro-cartilage. They may be solitary, or occur in large numbers in the same individual. A remarkable instance is recorded, in the “ Eeports of the Pathological Society of London,”* of a boy, in whom the slightest blow produced tumours of this kind. At the * 1848-19, p. 113.856 BLOOD TUMOURS IN BONE. time of observation he presented fifteen or sixteen of these swell- ings, on the fingers and metacarpal bones, one of which had attained the size of an orange, and required removal, solely on account of its bulk. They are liable to ossification, and sometimes ulcerate. Mult iple central enchondromata usually occur in children, sometimes with an hereditary tendency. The peripheral enchondroma may occur at any age, and in various parts of the skeleton; sometimes spontaneously, sometimes ap- parently resulting from injury. It develops from the periosteum or subperiosteal layer of bone, and grows outwards, pushing aside the soft parts. Ossification occurs in these tumours, but not usually to any great extent. They frequently soften or form cysts. They are sometimes combined with myxomatous, and sometimes with sarcomatous structure. In the latter case they are liable to have malignant properties. Sometimes they grow out in a villous or papillary form. A remarkable case of metastasis of cartilaginous growth is reported by Biesiadecki.* A cartilaginous tumour of the iliac bone, distinguished by a remarkable villous character, gave rise to cartilaginous masses (or cartilaginous thrombi) in the iliac veins; from which were detached cartilaginous emboli. The latter, lodging in branches of the pulmonary artery, gave rise to second- ary tumours in the lungs. A somewhat similar case was observed by 0. Weber, f Tatty tumours have, in exceptional cases, been observed in bone. Myxoma is more common, being sometimes combined with enchon- droma. BLOOD TUMOURS IN BONE. Hcematoma.—Effusion of blood, either into the subperiosteal tissue or into the medulla, gives rise to the form of tumour, or deposit called hfematoma. It is usually produced by injury. In the substance of the bone, the degenerated clot may give rise to a blood cyst. Cephalhwmatoma.—A form of sanguineous tumour of the head, met with in infancy as a result of the pressure exerted upon the cranial bones during parturition, and known by the term cephal- hsematoma, has given rise to much discussion, as the symptoms have been variously explained by different observers.! It consists of an effusion of blood between the pericranium and the bone, and is most commonly met with on one of the parietal bones. Bare cases are recorded of an internal cephalhematoma, in which the extravasation took place between the dura mater and * “ Wiener, Akadem. Sitzungs-berichte,” Abth ii. vol. lvii. May, 1S68. + “ Virch. Arcbiv.,” vol. xxxv. p. 503. 1 A good mum" of their opinions is given by Dr. Willshire in the tenth volume of the “ British and Foreign Med.-Uliir. Review,” July, 1S52. p. B.857 VASCULAR TUMOURS. the bone. All authors are agreed that external cephalhematoma occurs most frequently on the right side. Bednar (quoted by 1 r. Willshire) found, that of seventy-four examples, forty were on the right, twentv-two on the left, six over each parietal bone, four on the occipital', one over both parietals and the occipital, and one over the frontal bone, the latter being the smallest. Older writers have regarded it as depending upon an essential disease of the bone, owing to the hard ring bounding the tumour, inducin,‘>' the impression that the bone has been excavated. This appears, however, to be strictly a secondary production, the result of an ossifying process on the surface of the bone, and on the surface of the detached periosteum. A further growth according to Bokitansky, commences at the margin of the denuded part, and produces the deposit of bony matter in the form of a velvety or finely filamentous osteophyte. it The clot passes through the process of softening and absorption common in thrombi. In unhealthy cases, suppuration or puriform softening takes place, which may give rise to extensive suppura- tion and necrosis of the bone. VASCULAR TUMOURS. Tumours of a vascular character are occasionally met with in bone, resembling those composed of erectile tissue, or rather of a congeries of blood-vessels, in soft parts. Mb. Stanley describes a tumour of this kind that fell under his observation, as bearing a close resemblance to certain nsevi consisting of dilated blood- vessels, with a fibrous tissue occupying their interstices; hence in a section the tumour presented a cribriform appearance, the orifices being apparently those of divided blood-vessels. This tumour must not be confounded with those enlargements of the bone which are produced by an accumulation of blood, owing to rupture of the blood-vessels, and consequent haemorrhage into the cancelli, or between the periosteum and the bone. Cruveilhier gives delineations * of a remarkable case, in which a lady, aged thirty-eight, of a good constitution, and without hereditary taint, the mother of eight children, presented a dozen tumours of the size of a walnut, situated on the head. They were soft, and pulsated ; the beats were isochronous with that of the pulse, and were accompanied with a blowing noise, similar to one heard at the aorta. There were several similar tumours in other parts of the body, but those of the head only proved after death to belong to the bones. They exhibited on section a filamentous areolar structure tilled with blood ; the destruction of the bone penetrated to the dura mater; the absorption of the osseous tissue resembled that produced by aneurism; on the external surface there was • “ Anatomie Patholog-ique,” tom. ii. line xxxiii. pi. iv.°of5 FIBROUS AND SARCOMATOUS TUMOURS. evidence of an attempt at repair, in the shape of osseous vegeta- tions. Cruveilhier is of opinion that in this case the vascular development took place mainly at the expense of the arterial system ; he thence infers a general law that there are two kinds of erectile tumour, one of a venous, the other of an arterial character. Pulsatile and highly vascular tumours of several species beside cancer may give rise-to such symptoms as those described. There seem, however, to be real tumours composed of vessels only, true angiomata, which have given occasion to the designation “ aneurism of bone.” * FIBROUS AND SARCOMATOUS TUMOURS. Fibrous, or fibroid tumours, sometimes occur centrally, like enchondroma, distending the bone in a similar manner, and some- times reaching a great size. They may also grow from the periosteum, and then may become partially ossified from the base, or isolated masses of bone (parosteal tumours) may form in them. Sarcoma of Bone.—The class of bone tumours having the structure of sarcoma is at the present moment very difficult to limit, since the anatomical definition of sarcoma includes most of the tumours hitherto described as cancer of bone. Spindle-celled sarcoma, or recurrent fibroid, occurs not unfre- quently as a growth starting from the periosteum. These tumours are the type of what Sir J. Paget calls recurrent fibroid ; their clini- cal history is that of this form of sarcoma in general (p. 16S). They often have a pseudo-fibrous appearance, called fasciculate, and hence have been called fasciculated sarcoma (or carcinoma). They may form bone, or become simply encrusted with calcareous salts. The same form of tumour may start centrally, as in the specimen figured on page 146, in which Yirchow was of opinion that there was a combination with cancer.f Central sarcomatous tumours are mostly of the myeloid type, already described, which English surgeons distinguish more clearly from other forms of sarcoma than do the Germans. They are, how- ever, sometimes of fasciculated appearance, and contain spindle- celled structure. The general description of these tumours has already been given. It only remains to say here that when grow- ing from bones they start, in the majority of cases, from the cen- tral, i.e., medullary or cancellous part of the bone, but not always ; and that tumours containing abundant myeloid cells are found among the ossifying sarcomata of peripheral growth. Pigmented, or melanotic sarcoma, occurs as a secondary growth. * See a case in “Tran*. Path. Soc.,” vol. xix. p. 849. + Resides the eases in Paget’s “ Pathology,” very numerous instances are recorded in recent volumes of the‘‘Trans. Path. Soc.,” and in Virchow’s work on Tumours. Sjc also Arnold, “ Virch. Arcliiv.,” vol. lvii.859 OSTEOID TUMOUR. The “ osteoid tumour” of Muller has been thought to constitute a transition between the simple bony tumours and the malignant affections of bone. Muller describes it thusThe osteoid tumour is irregularly lobulated, and is developed with moieorless lapidity from lie surface of a bone, and consists mainly of osseous tissue, in the interstices of which a non-ossified substance is found of the consistency of fibro-cartilage, which also forms the coveung of these growths; the bony matter is more or less porous, and. pre- sents all the characters of true bone, while the other constituent offers a greyish white colour, is somewhat vascular, and of firm consistency and difficult to tear. The microscope displays m it a dense fibrous network, with minute interstices containing but few cells and nuclei; it is not cartilaginous in structure or chemical composition, containing neither gelatine nor chondrine. The tumours thus described are doubtless in part ossifying sar- comata of different species, but one distinct and characteristic form of tissue is found in some of them ; that is the osteoid tissue ot Virchow, which is more like an imperfect form of cartilage than bone or sarcomatous tissue. Tumours composed of this substance are very rare; we must refer to Virchow* and to the works of Rindfleisch, and Oornil and Ranvier for fuller accounts. These growths are among the tumours called osteoid cancers by Sir J. Paget. CANCER OF BONE. The occurrence of primary cancer of bone is, whatever definition of cancer we adopt, rare; but taking it in the sense formerly defined, rarer even than the descriptions of surgeons would lead one to suppose, since most of the tumours thus named from clini- cal characters would, according to the definition here adopted, come under the head of sarcoma, especially of the round-celled or medullary form. As it is impossible, in the standard descriptions of bone cancer, to separate the carcinomatous from the sarcomatous forms, the general assertions made respecting the growth and other features of cancer must be taken to apply equally both to soft rapidly-growing forms of sarcoma, and to medullary carcinoma in the strict sense. Epithelial Oriyin of Cancer.—Another difficulty must be faced before we can admit the existence of true primary carcinoma of bone. In most of the recent German publications on morbid growths, it will be found that the name cancer is confined to tumours • “ Krankh. Geschwulste,” vol. ii. p. 292, et seq.SCO CANCER OF BONE. originating in glandular or superficial epithelium, and of which tne cells (contained in the alveoli) have a more or less epithelial character. This excludes from the class of cancers nearly all the malignant tumours arising from bone, and, accordinglv, Billroth has proposed for some undoubtedly alveolar tumours, which are anatomically cancer, in the sense in which the word is used in this book, the name alveolar sarcoma. This is understood as differing from cancer only in the fact that the cells have not an “ epithelial” character. Whether the name carcinoma or sarcoma should be given to such tumours, depends on a variety of considerations which cannot be discussed here. We only wish to point out that ■ sarcoma ” is in many cases synonymous with carcinoma, in the sense in which we use the word. _ Finally, it must be stated that we do, from time to time, meet with tumours growing- from bone which are both “alveolar” and “epithelial,” and to°which no pathologist would refuse the name of cancer, either on anatomi- cal or clinical grounds. Such cases are explained, by those who deny the origin of cancer from anything else than epithelium, in two ways : first, they say the occurrence of such growths is so rare and exceptional as to be altogether unimportant; secondly, they suppose that there may have been, in such cases, some inclusion of epi- thelial or epidermic structure within the bone in the course of development; as^ appears to be the case in the dermoid cysts, found in exceptional situations, formerly referred to. This explanation appears forced, and we can only say that the “epithelial” theory o± the origin of cancer does not at present appear susceptible of application to all cases, and must therefore be regarded as, up till now, insufficiently established. The definition of Virchow forms the best practical basis for anatomical classification. Primary Cancer of Bone.—Several varieties have been seen. Epithelioma is recorded as having occurred in two cases by Forster.* * * § Virchow and Weber have seen similar cases.t Messrs. Cock and Bryant describe another. | In such cases, the epithelial character of the cells could admit of no mistake. The ordinary medullary carcinoma is what is sometimes called alveolar sarcoma. Cases are not very uncommon. They occur chiefly in certain situations, such as the lower end of the femur or humerus, the cranial bones and the vertebral column, sometimes in other situations, as the tibia or pelvic bones. Apeifect instance of this form of tumour is one first described as osteo-sarcoma, but which, in its further development, and especially in the lymphatic and secondary tumours to which it gave rise (as we have, since the publication of the case, had an opportunity of observing), was precisely what has been generally understood by medullary car- cinoma^ or lately, alveolar sarcoma. These tumours are some- * “ Ilanflbiich dor Path. Anat.,” vol. ii. p. S95. + 1-iicke, “ Geschwulsfe,” p. 207. $ “ Lancet,” vol. i. 1859. § Croft, “ Trans. Path. Soc.,” vol. xxiii. p. 203.861 CANCEIt OP BONE. times found to develop in a remarkable manner, apparently simultaneously from many parts of the skeleton. Scirrhus has never been observed as a primary growth in bone. Colloid is almost unknown primarily affecting the bones. Great interest, therefore, attaches to the case reported by Dr. Moxon (“Trans. Path. Soc.,” vol. xxii. p. 206), in which this form of cancer affected simultaneously a large number of bones. The growth was strictly alveolar,' and the alveoli contained colloid matter, with a few cells. If not called cancer, it could only receive some such name as alveolar sarcoma with colloid de- generation. Secondary cancer of the skeleton is far more common, and in this form most kinds of cancer have been found. Scirrhus is the least frequent, but distinct isolated tumours are sometimes seen. Instances are given by Sir J. Paget, in his “ Surgical Pathology.” Medullary cancer not unfrequently occurs subsequently to the same affection of the soft parts, and often in many bones at once. It may, like primary encephaloid, appear either in the form of distinct tumours or as an infiltration. Secondary colloid has rarely been observed in bone. Mr. Stanley records a case affecting the bone of a finger, and another occurring in a rib. Rokitansky relates one in which the right upper maxilla was the seat of the growth, and where the peripheral follicles of the growth were developed into large cysts. General Characters of Done Cancer.—The general mode of growth in all soft malignant tumours of bone, whether encephaloid or sarcomatous, is much the same. Separate tumours arise either centrally or peripherally. In the former case theyfi.il the medullary cavity, and expand the external shell of bone, or else infiltrate it, converting it into cancer, and proliferate beyond it. The bony shell sometimes found on the outside of such tumours is, however, of subsequent formation. Bone is often formed in the tumour, and when macerated appears as the curious structure known as spina ventosa. The original bone is perforated, or in great part destroyed. In the infiltrated form of encephaloid, the cancelli and Haversian canals are filled with a reddish, fatty-looking substance, which causes an absorption of the cancellar septa, and thus becomes one of the various morbid conditions to which a great fragility of the bones is attributable. The tissue presents the characters of medullary cancer ; it varies in vascularity ; at times, either from the large number of small arteries passing through the growth, or from the vicinity of a large artery, it puts on the character of an erectile or ancurismal tumour, and exhibits marked pulsation. It is probable that the majority of cases of aneurism of bone are tumours of this kind. The fragility which was noticed in the individual case before alluded to, is a quality often spoken of by authors as associated with cancer, without determining or assuming the existence of actual carcinomatous disorganization of the bone; it is also observed in deep-seated constitutional affec-8G2 SYPHILITIC TUMOURS OF BOXE. tions of a syphilitic, scorbutic, and arthritic character, and cases are recorded of extreme fragility as a mere result of old age; it is not, therefore, inconsistent to assume that, when accompanying carcinomatous affections, it may he sometimes the result of an atrophic state resulting from mal-nutrition, without being neces- sarily accompanied by any actual carcinomatous disease of the bone. That bone cancers, or malignant sarcomata, may give rise to secondary formations in other organs, especially in the lungs, follows from the general principles before laid down. Such secondary tumours are sometimes ossified, and sometimes not. TUBERCLE IX BOXE. The presence of tubercle in bone is an undoubted pathological fact, but its frequency has been over-estimated by some authors, as it has been underrated by others. In the former case the error has arisen from every evidence of osseous disease in scrofulous subjects having been regarded as actually resulting from the deposit of tubercular matter in the bone, and from concrete pus having produced appearances closely resembling those presented by tubercle in a certain stage of decay. We have already pointed out that there is no evidence that such cheesv masses were ever tubercles; but it is fair to say that they have not often been proved not to be so; and it remains to be seen wh it improved methods of investigation may establish, with regard to the tubercular origin of some of them. Grey miliary tubercles are very rarely seen; not often even in cases of general tuberculosis, though it must be remembered that the bones are seldom examined in this disease. According to MM. Cornil and Eanvier, who have made special researches on this subject, miliary tubercles are found in the spongy tissue, more especially of the vertebrae, the sternum, and the ribs. They describe isolated granulations and also confluent granulations; the latter forming a species of infiltration. SYPHILITIC TUMOURS OF BOXE. Nodes or gummata occur most frequently in the periosteum, that is, in the subperiosteal layer, already spoken of, as the result of a chronic inflammation. They form distinct elastic swellings, some- times so hard as to simulate bony growth ; actual bone is not often found in them, though it has been seen in nodes on the tibia. On cutting into them they are found to be composed of a yellow trans- lucent elastic substance, sometimes yielding a thick gummy fluid, tho minute characters of which have already been described. ThisPARASITES IN BONE. * “ Med.-Chir. Trans.,” vol. x. p. 278. 8G3 tissue is particularly liable to decay, through a species of fatty degeueratiou, leading to the production of a dry yellow, sometimes cheesy mass, which may in the end become completely absorbed. AYhen this happens a depression is usually left in the skull, showing the participation of the bony tissue, which is usual in so-called peri- osteal affections. Actual suppuration is rare. Sometimes a more fibrous mass results, which is permanent for a long time ; or, on the other hand, ulceration may ensue; though this will not be formidable unless the central part of the bone be also affected. This combination does, however, sometimes present itself', and syphilitic ostitis, or osteomyelitis, may accompany the periosteal affection; as they may also occur independently. The medulla, aud especially that portion of it contained in the spongy bone and diploe, is here the seat of the morbid process. This may, as in its more superficial seat, produce gummatous tumours, which undergo caseation, while the bony tissue included within them perishes (by necrosis), and various processes of demarcation, as suppuration, granulation, or osteosclerosis are set up around. Tne tumours thus produced are, however, not considerable. Syphilitic caries and necrosis are properly treated under this head, since they are not, as Mr. Holmes well remarks, primary affections of the bones, but the result and termination of nodes, or of inflammation of the bone, or of ulceration in the sofc parts around. Syphilitic ulceration of bone occurs in two forms. In the first, or annular, a small carious spot appears first, aud a wide ring of bone surrounding this is ultimately separated by a sequestrating furrow, so that a depression much larger than the original spot is formed. This is a combination of caries with necrosis. The “ tubercular ’' ulceration begins with syfihilitic inflam- mation of the compact tissue, which causes an elevation on the sur- face. The inflamed bone soon becomes dotted over with numerous little pits, or depressions, which coalesce, and form ulcers, usually oval or round, penetrating deeply into the interior of the bone. By the confluence and extension of these forms, especially the annular, complicated or reticulated forms are produced. The severer forms of caries occur in cachectic constitutions, or, as is thought, when much mercury has been taken. They are less frequent now than formerly. PARASITES. Hydatid or echinococcus cysts occur very rarely in bone. A very remarkable instance is described by Mr. Keate,* in which a lar^e tumour in the frontal bone of a young woman, aged eighteen, was formed by the development of hydatids bot ween "the plates of thePARASITES IN BONE. SGI bone. Frequent attempts to destroy the cyst and its contents, by escharotics, after removal of a portion of the external osseous sheath, failed; and the constant sproutina: out of fresh hydatids at last induced Mr. Keate to saw off the entire tumour, after which the girl completely recovered. The diameters of the exposed surface were 44 by 4 inches. In the very compact and hard bony substance, forming the base of the tumour, were five or six cells, containing hydatid cysts. It appears that from these , cells the hydatids were constantly regenerated, forcing their way into the large cavity of the tumour, and yielding to no treatment, as the remedies failed to destroy the matrix lforn which they pullulated. Mr. Stanley quotes some cases from his own experience, and that of other observers, from which it appears that the bones of the skeleton are all equally liable to be attacked. The develop- ment of hydatids induces a gradual, painless expansion of the bone, which may thus become perforated, and allow of an escape of the hydatids. The cavity of bone in which the hydatids form is lined by an adventitious cyst, and this is said to be liable to excite inflammation in the surrounding bone, as well as to induce purulent products in the cysts. Cysts of this description often contain matter, to the naked eye, absolutely identical with laudable pus, which, however, under the microscope, exhibits none of the characters of pus. Cysticercus cellulosae was observed in one case by Froriep in the first phalanx of the middle finger, where it had developed in the midst of the bone, and by secondary inflammation destroyed the external wall on the volar side.INDEX. Abscess, 100; pyremic, 114 ; of bram, 268; I of heart, 326; of lung, 486 ; of liver, 618 ; of kidney, 673; of prostate, 736 ; of mamma, 782; of periosteum, 830; of bone, 832 Acarus scabiei, 211 Acephalocyst, or hydatid, 217 Achelia, 535 Achorion Schoenleinii, 207 Addison’s disease, 665 Adenoid or lymphadenoid tissue, 106,153, 418, 425, 490 Adenoma, 152; of intestine, 603; of liver, 638; of kidney, 700; of ovary, 776 ; of mamma, 784 Adipose tissue, new growth of, 139 Agnathia, 534 Air in cysts, 72; in veins, 411; in intes- tines, 610 Albumen, quantitative variations in, of serum, 25 Amyloid or lardaceous degeneration, 127 ; of capillaries, 414; of liver, 629 ; of spleen, 655; of kidney, 678; of supra renaLs, 663 Anfemia, causes, symptoms, results, 11, 38; A. lymphatica, 425 Anchylostomum duodenale, 214 Aneurism of heart, 341 ; of valves, 359; of arteries, 381; miliary, 260,389; from embolism, 383 ; form and contents of, 384; dissecting, 390; causes, 382; sta- tistics, 385; by anastomosis, 382 ; of special arteries, 388; of bone (so- called), 858 Angioma, 147, 415; of liver, 634 ; spleen, 657 ; supra renals, 664 Anthraknsis, 491 Aphtha:, 208, 538 Apoplexy of brain, 256 ; sequela) of, 261; meningeal, 234; of spinal meninges, 293; of spinal cord, 300; of lungs, 472; of heart, 332 ; of ovaries, 771 Arachnitis, cerebral, 237 ; spinal, 294 Arachnoid, cerebral, 232 ; thickening of, 232 ; subarachnoid effusion, 233; bone in, 237; inflammation, 237 ; haemor- rhage into, 234 Arachnoid <ind pia mater of spinal cord, 293; inflammation, 294; chronic in- flammation and thickening, 295 Arrest of development, 362, 752, 849 Arteries, morbid anatomy of, &o., 372; inflammation of, 372 ; chronic arteritis, 375; fatty degeneration, 378 ; athe- roma, 375 ; ossification, 377 ; throm- bosis in, 379, 393 ; aneurism, 381; con- dition of in Bright’s disease, 696 Ascaris lumbricoides, 213 Asphyxia, production of, 31 Atelectasis pulmonum, 465 Atheroma (cyst), 156; of arteries, 375; of valves, 354; of veins, 401 Atresia ani, 576 ; oris, 535; vaginte, 742 Atrophy, from inflammation, 108; gene- ral account of, 121 Atrophy of brain, 273 ; of valves, 355 ; of spinal cord, 298; of nerves, 309; of heart, 344; of lung, 462; of liver, 630; of testis, 718 ; of uterus, 751 Bacteria, baeteridia, in disease, 117, 209, 796 ; in kidneys, 674 ; in urine, 708 Biliary matters in blood, 36 Bladder, malformations, 704; dilatation, contraction, 705; hypertrophy of mus- cular coat, 706 ; displacements, 706; hypersemia, 706 ; inflammation, 707; chronic cystitis, 707 ; bacteria in urine, 708; pericystitis, 709; softening of mucous membrane, 709; tubercle, can- cer, 709 Blood, morbid states of, 6; minute organ- isms in, 209; parasites of, 214 Blood-vessels, morbid anatomy of, 372 Bones, pathology of, 827; congenital malformations, 827 ; inflammation of, 827; forms and results of, 829; peri- ostitis, 829; osteomyelitis and ostitis, 831; necrosis, 833 ; caries, 836; scrofu- lous ostitis or caries, 838; connec- tion with tubercle, 839; hypertrophy and atrophy, 839; osteoporosis, 841; mollities ossium, 842 ; rickets, 845 ; deformity produced by, 847; minute changes in, 849 ; exostoses, 861; osteo- phytes, 853; enehondroma, 854; blood- tumours, 856; vascular tumours, 867 ; sarcoma, 858; osteoid tumour, 859; cancer, 859; tubercle, 862 ; syphilitic disease, 862 ; parasites, 863 Bothriocephalus latus, 221 3 KINDEX. 866 Brain, pathology of, 253; circulation in 253; congestion, 255; haemorrhage, 256 ; hypertrophy, 271; atrophy, 273 ; induration, 270; anaemia, 263 ; morbid growths, 275 ; softening, white, 263; ditto, red, 215; oedema, 263; inflam- mation, 264; suppuration, 268; cysts, 283 ; hydatids, 283 ; tubercle, 276 ; syphilitic tumours, 278; cancer, 279 ; sarcoma, 281; glioma, 282; condition in insanity, 284 ; in diabetes, 286 Broad ligaments of uterus, cysts in, 780 Bronchial tubes, 445 : haemorrhage, 445 ; inflammation, 447 ; dilatation, 452 ; tubercle, 456 ; plastic bronchitis, 448; ulceration, 450 Bronchiectasis, 452 Bronchitis, 447 ; plastic, 448 Bronchocele, 660 Buffy coat, of blood-clot, 23 Bursoe, inflammation of, suppuration, 825; thickening of their walls, 826; melonseed bodies, 826 Calculi, biliary, 646; renal and vesical, 715 ; uric acid and urates, 715; oxalate of lime, phosphatic, cystin, xanthin, carbonate of lime, mixed, 716; pros- tatic, 738; salivary, 652 Cancer, in the brain, 279; in the heart, 345 ; in the lungs, 515 ; in the pleura, 533; tongue, 543; stomach, 570; in- testines, 602 ; liver, 635 ; pancreas, 650 ; spleen, 657; thyroid, 661; thymus, 662 ; supra renils, 664; kidney, 699; bladder, 709 ; testes, 728 ; prostate, 737 ; penis, 741; vagina, 749; uterus, 766; ovaries, 778 ; mamma, 785 ; bone, 859 Cancerous tumours, general characters, 165, 172,; varieties, 173 ; diagnostic signs of, 181; origin, 1S3; theories of development of, 184; growth and de- velopment of, 183 ; primary and secon- dary, 189; diffusion of cancer, 189 ; influence of age and sex, 191, 192 ; in- fluence of operations for removal, 192 Cancrum oris, 539 Capillaries,morbid anatomy,413 ; changes in wall, 413; capillary embolism and thrombosis, 414 Carbonic acid in the blood, 31; poisonous effects of, 32 Carditis, 326 Cartilage, hypertrophy, 813 ; atrophy of, 814; ulceration of, S15; proliferation of cells in, 817 Cartilages, loose, 812 Cartilaginous tumours, 141, 854 Caries of bone, 836; scrofulous, S38; syphilitic, 863 Catarrhal inflammation, 428 Causes of disease, 3 Cavernous tumours, 149 Cavities in lungs, 507 Cell proliferation, in inflamed tissues, 88 ; in new growths, 185 Cellular pathology, 185 Ccplialhfcmatoma, 226, 801, 856 .Cestoid parasites, 214 I Chancres, 739, 740 Cholera, intestinal changes in, 599 Cholesteatoma, 731 Chondroma, 141 Choroid plexus, 250; concentric bodies, 250 ; cysts, 251; fatty degeneration, 252 Cirrhosis of liver, 622—626; of kidney, 686 ; of lung, 489 Cleft palate, 534 Clitoris, 745 Coagula, changes in, 24 Coagulation of blood, 15; within the heart, 350 Colloid cancer, 176; of stomach, 573; intestines, 603 ; peritoneum, 557; mam- ma, 787 ; bone, 861 Congestion, causes, effects, instances, 45-51 Coronary arteries in fatty degeneration of heart, 330 Corpora amylacea, 130 Corpus luteum, 771 Croup, croupous inflammation, 430; of larynx, 436; of bronchi, 44S; of pha- rynx, 551; mouth, 533 ; intestines, 5S8; bladder, 708 ; vagina, 748 ; uterus, 758 Curvatures, spinal, 848 Cyanosis, 368; history and symptoms, 370 Cystitis, acute, chronic, 707 Cysts, in arachnoid, 236; dura mater, 230; brain, 283; lungs, 519; stomach, 563; liver, 635; spleen, 65S; thyroid, 660; supra renals, 665; kidney, 690, 700; testes, 721, 729, 731 ; uterus, 764; ovary, 772 ; broad ligaments, 7SO; mam- ma, 784; chorion, 799 Cysticercus (tehe), cellulosoe, 216 Cystoid tumours, 155 Cysto-sarcoma, 171 Cysts, hydatid. See Hydatid cysts Cytogenous tissue, 153. See Adenoid tissue Degeneration, fatty, fibrous, calcareous, 123, 124, 125; colloid, mucoid, pig- mentary, 126; lardaceous or amyloid, 127 Demodex folliculorum, 211 Dental caries, 515 ; dental necrosis, 547; dental pulp, diseases of, 5IS; dental periosteum, inflamed, 549 Determination of blood, 51—60 Diphtheria, 431 Diphtheritic inflammation, 91, 431; of larynx, 437 Disease, organic, functional, 3, 5 Dislocation, effects of, 824 Distoma, hepaticum, lanceolatum, oculi, humani, hiematobiuin, 214 Diverticula, intestinal, 576; diverticulum ilci, 676 ; false diverticula, 577 Dropsy, 65; passive, 68; conditions of, 69 ; composition of effusions, 70 Dropsy, ovarian, 774 Duct. com. elioled., obstruction of, 645 Dura mater of cerebrum, 226; inflam- mation, 227 ; ossification, 229; cysts,INDEX. 867 230; cancer, 230; tubercle, 230; mal- formation, 230; spinal cord, 290; mor- bid growths of, 291 Dysentery, its various degrees, morbid changes in, 096—599 Dysmenorrhoea membranacea, 7o8 Echinococcus cysts, 218; changes of cysts, 220 Ectopia vesica;, 705 Embolism, 396; consequences of, 397 , ol pulmonary artery, 397; of cerebral arte- ries, 270; of splenic artery, 656 Emphysema, 459 Empyema, 527 Encephalitis, 264_ Encephalocele, 250, SOI Eneephaloid cancer, 173 Enchondroma, 141; of bone, 854 Endocardium, morbid anatomy of, 347 Endocarditis, 348; results of, 349 ; ulce- rative, 349 Endometritis, 757; puerperal, 791 Enostosis, 145 Entozoa, 210 Ependyma of brain, morbid conditions ol, 244 • Epidermic and epithelial tumours, 159 Epiglottis, 432; ulceration of, 433 Epispadias, 710 Epithelioma, 178 Epulis, 171, 536 Exophthalmic goitre, 660 Exostosis, 144, 851 Extractive matters in the blood, 27 Exudations, inflammatory, 95 Fallopian tubes, inflammation, 779 ; hse- morrhage, 780: tubercle, 780; cysts, 774,780 . . Fattv degeneration, 123; arteries, 378 ; capillaries, 414; choroid plexus, 252; heart, 328; liver, 626; kidney, 678; pancreas, 650 Fatty tumours, 139 Fibro-cellular tumours, 136 Fibroid or flbro-muscular tumours, 151, 759 Fibrous tumours, fibroma, 134 Fibro-cystic tumours, 136 Fibrinej 15; uses of, 16 ; variations in, 19 ; deficiency of, 20; quality of, 22 Fibrinous blocks, 398; spleen, 656 ; kid- ney, 675 _ Filaria, 212; F. mcdmensis, F. oculi humani, F, broncliialis, 212; sanguinis hominis, 214 Flux, active or passive, 65—67 Fcctus, diseases of, 800; malformation, 801; inflammations, 802 Functional diseases, 3, 5 Fungi, parasitic, 206 Gall bladder, malformation, inflamma- tion, 643 Gall stones, 646 Ganglion, 826 Gangrene, 110; heart, ,333; lungs, 488; pleura, 530; mouth, 539 ; liver, 622 Gastritis, 559 Gastromalacia, 589 Generation, organs of, male, 717; female, 742 . . . Genitals (external) in the female, inju- ries, malformations, 742; inflamma- tion, 743; warts, 743; tumours, 744; hypertrophy, 744 ; hymen, 745 Glanders, 205 . Glands, lymphatic, 418; inflammation, 418; caseous, scrofulous, and tubercu- lar, 419 ; syphilitic affections, 422; new growths, 423 Glandular tumours, 152 Glioma, 171, 282 . Glomeruli, or granule cells, 102 Glossitis, 542 Glottis, affections of, 434 Goitre, 660 Gonorrhoea, 711 ... Gouty deposit in kidney, 690; cartilages, 814 Granulations, 105 . . Gummata, syphilitic, 203; m brain, 278 ; in lungs, 518; in heart, 345; in liver, 639 ; in kidney, 699 Hiematin, 8 Hromatocele, 722 ; of the cord, 723 Hfematoidin, 9 Hematoma, 64 Heematometra, 759 Htematuria, 672 Hemoglobin, 8 Hemorrhage, 61; exciting causes of, 62; changes in effused blood, 63 Hemorrhage, into arachnoid, 234; into ventricles, 245 ; in substance of brain, 256; into bronchi, 445 Hemorrhagic cysts, 64 Hemorrhoids, 408 Hemothorax, 630 Hare-lip, 534 Heart, inflammation. 326 ; apoplexy, 328; fatty degeneration, 328 ; fibroid degene- ration, 331; rupture, 332; hypertro- phy, 334 ; normal dimensions, 335; gangrene, 333; dilatation, 340; aneu- rism, 341; atrophy, 344; morbid growths, 345; hydatids, 346; ulceration, 327, 349; fibrinous coagnla, 350; congenital malformations, 362; hypertrophy in renal disease, 696 Hepatic ducts, inflammation, 643 Hepatization, of lung. See Pneumonia Herpes Zoster, 316 , Heterologous or heteroplastic growths, 134 Histioid tumours, 134 Hodgkin’s disease, 425 Homologous growths, 131 Horns, 160 Hydatid cysts, 218; in brain, 283; heart, 846; lungs, 619; pleura, 533; liver, 641; spleen, 658; mamma, 788; uterus, 765; hone, 863 Hydatid of Morgagni, 780 Hydrocele, 720; encysted, 721; of the spermatic cord, 722INDEX. 8G8 Hydrocephalus, chronic, 245 ; senile, 249 ; acute (so-called), 240 Hydrometra, 759 Hydronephrosis, 701 Hydro pericardium, 321 Hydrotlrorax, 529 Hymen, 745 Hyperoemia, 41; partial, 44 ; varieties of, 44; passive, 45; active, 51; collateral, 58; effects of, 59 Hyperplasia, 121 Hypertrophy, 120; real and apparent, 120; inflammatory, 108 ; brain, 271; coats of arteries, 696; heart, 334; tongue, 541; spleen, 653; bladder, 706; thyroid, 660 ; thymus, 662; prostate, 735 Hypospadias, 710 Idiocy, brain in, 273 ; sympathetic in, 316 Idiosyncrasies, 3 Induration, 122; brain, 270 ; spinal cord, 302 Inflammation, 77—111; external charac- ters, 78; vascular phenomena, 80 ; Cohnheim’s observations, 81 ; stasis, 80, 84 ; cell migration, 84 ; alterations of tissues, 87 ; varieties of, 89; causes of, 92; termination of, 94; products and results of, 95 ; suppuration, 96 ; granu- lations, 105: changes in inflamed parts, 108 Inflammation, general account of, 77; inflammation of organs (see under re- spective parts) Innoma, 135 Intestinal canal, malformations, 576; false diverticula, 577 ; dilatation, 577 ; con- traction, 578; changes of position, 578; internal strangulation, 579; wounds and lacerations, 579invagination, 580 ; prolapsus ani, 582; congestion, 583; catarrhal inflammation, 584; chronic, 584; affections of intestinal glands, 585; follicular ulceration, 587 ; phlegmonous inflammation, 587; formation of false membranes, 688; changes in enteric fever, 589; tubercular disease, 593; changes in dysentery, 596; in scarlatina, 599; in cholera, 599; in leu clue mi a, 600; in syphilis, 601; new growths, 602 ; typhlitis, 604; ulcer of duodenum, 606; affections of rectum, 607; haemor- rhoids, 608 ; fistula in ano, 610; intes- tinal contents, 610 ; concretions, 612 Ixodea, ticks, 211 Joints, malformations, 805; inflammation of synovial membrane, 805—810; acute synovitis, 806; chronic, 807; suppura- tion, 808 ; ulceration, 809 ; pulpy de- generation of synovial membrane, 810; villous growth on synovial membrane, 812; inflammation of ligaments, 813; relaxation of ligaments, 813; loose cartilages, 812; hypertrophy of cartilage, 813; atrophy, 814 ; ulceration of carti- lage, 815; proliferation of cartilage cells, 817 ; scrofulous disease of joints, 818; tubercular1 disease, 819; disease of vertebrae, 819; ankylosis, 821; chronic rheumatic arthritis, 821 ; effects of dis- locations, 824; morbid conditions of bursae, 825; ganglion, 826 Kidneys, congenital anomalies, 668; hy- pertrophy and atrophy, 008; hyper- ,'emia, 669; haemorrhage, 672; anaemia, 672 ; suppurative nephritis and abscess, 673, 674; pyoemic abscesses, 675; in- farctions or blocks, G75; capillary em- bolisms, 676; parenchymatous degene- ration, 677 ; fatty degeneration, 678; lardaceous, 678; morbus Brightii, 679 —697; forms of, 679; tubular nephritis, 680; hyaline casts, 684; origin of new cells, 685; chronic interstitial nephritis, 6S6 ; gouty deposits, 690; cysts, 690; scarlatinal nephritis, 693; combination of diseases, 694; causes of Bright’s disease, 695; associated conditions, 695, new growths, 697; cancer, 699; congenital cystic disease, 700 Labia pudendi, 742 Larynx, 434; catarrh, 435; croup, 436; diphtheria, 437; ulceration, 437 ; tubercle, 438; new growths, 440 Leuchoemia or leueoeythaemia, 73; morbid changes in, 74, 75 Leucocytosis, 14 Leucorrhoca, 748, 757 Lipomata, 139 Liquor sanguinis, composition of, 7; pathological changes of, 14 Liver, malformations, 614; congestion of, 615; nutmeg condition, 616 ( causes of congestion and effects, 617,618; haemor- rhagic effusion, 61S; inflammation and abscess, 618—620; perihepatitis, 621; gangrene, 622; cirrhosis, 621—626; fatty degeneration of, 626 ; parenchymatous degeneration, 628; lardaceous. 629; pigmentary, 629; simple atrophy, 630; portal thrombosis, 630; jaundice, 631; acute yellow atrophy, 633; new growths, 634; cancer, 635; syphilitic affections, 639; tubercle. 641; parasites, 641; ab- normal conditions of biliary passages, 643; biliary calculi, 646 Locomotor ataxy, 303 Lungs, 458; dilatation of air cells, 459; hypertrophy, 461; atelectasis or col- lapse, 465 ; oedema, 467 ; congestion, 468; apoplexy, 471; haemorrhagic blocks, 472; inflammation, 475; ab- scess, 485; broncho-pneumonia, 4S3; gangrene, 488; chronic pneumonia, 489; pigmentation, 491; tubercle, 493; broncho-pneumonic granulations, 497 ; phthisis, 500; forms of. 5t)l; chronic, 605; cavities, 507; complications, 510; fibroid phthisis, 514; new growths, 51 ’; cancer, 515; syphilitic disease, 518; hydatid cysts, 5i9 Lupus, 205 Lymphadenoma, 153, 423 Lymphatics, 416; inflammation of, 416; varicosity of, 417; tumours, 418INDEX. 869 Lymphatic glands, 418; scrofulous glands, 419; tubercular, 421; syphilitic, 422 ; new growths, 423; entozoa, 426 Lymphatic tumours, 153, 423 Lymphoma, 153, 423 Lymphosarcoma, 155, 424 Macroglossia, 541 Malformations of heart, 362; of valves, 367 Malignancy, scale of, 183 Malignant tumours, 164 Manrnne, female, 781; male, 789 Mamma, physiological changes, 781; in- flammation, 782; hypertrophy, 783; tumours, 783; cysto-sarcoma, 784; cancer, 785; other tumours, 788; ex- cess in number, 789 Medulla, osseous, inflammation of, 829 Melanosis, 161 Melanotic tumours, 161 Melasma supra-renale, 665 Meningitis, cerebral, 237 ; simple acute, 238; forms of, 239; tubercular, 241; spinal, *294 Menstruation, condition of uterus in, 753 Metastatic abscess. See Pyaemia Metritis, 757 ; puerperal, 791 Metrophlebitis, 793 Micrococci, microzymes, 209, 210, 796 Microsporon furfur, 208 Migration of blood corpuscles, 82, 84 Mole, vesicular, 799 Mollities ossium, 842 Morbid poisons, 37 Mollification, 110 Mouth, malformations, 534; inflamma- tion, 535; epulis, vascular, and cance- rous tumours, 536; croupous and diph- theritic inflammation, 536; aphthae, 538; stomatitis, follicular and ulcera- tive, 539; gangrene, 539 Mucous tumours, 137 Mucous surfaces, inflammation of, 427 Mucus, 104 Mumps, 649 Muscular tumours, 150 Myelitis, 301 Myeloid tumours, 170 Myocarditis, 326; chronic, 328 Myoma, 150 Myxoma, 137 Neevi, 149 Necrosis of bone, 833 Nephritis, suppurative, 673; bacteria in, 674 Nerves, pathology of, 308; atrophy, 309 ; hypertrophy, 310 ; inflammation, 310; new growths, 312 Nervous system, pathology of, 225 Nervous tumours, 151 Neuritis, 310 Neuroma, 151, 312; false neuroma, 313 Neuropathological theory, 55 New formations, new growths, 132; classification of, 133 Noma, 639 Nympnte, 742 (Edema, 69 (EsophaguSj 549 Oidium albicans, 208 Oily matters of blood, 27 Oophoritis, 772 Orchitis, 724 ; syphilitic, 725 ; scrofulous, 726 Osseous tumours, 143, 851 Ossification of arteries, 377; of dura mater, 229 ; of larynx, 440; of trachea, 442 ; of lungs, 515 Osteoid tumours, 146, 859 Osteoma, 143, 851 Osteomyelitis, 829, 831 Osteophyte, 145, S53 Osteoporosis, 841 Ostitis, 829, 832, 836 Ovaries, pathology of, 770; congenital malformations, 770; in menstruation, 770; haemorrhage, 771; inflammation, 772 ; simple cysts, 772 ; compound cysts, 774; dermoid cysts, 777; cancer, 7? 8; tumours, 779 Oxalic acid, diathesis, 37 Oxyuris vermicularis, 213 Pacchionian bodies, 236 Pachymeningitis, 227 Pancreas, hypertrophy of, 649; atrophy of, 649; inflammation of, 649 ; fatty degeneration of, 650; cancer, 650 ; dila- tation of duct, 651 Papillary new growths, papillomata, 169 Paracentesis thoracis, 627 Paralysis agitans, 305 Parametritis, 758 Parasites, vegetable, 206; animal, 210 Parotid gland, inflammation, 649; tu- mours, 651 Penis, malformations, 739; inflammation, 739; ulcers (chancres), 739, 740; phy- mosis, paraphymosis, 740, 741; warts, cancer, 741 Perforation of valves, 349, 355; of intes- tine, 61 >6 Pericarditis, 318; pneumo-pericardium, 324 Pericardium, morbid anatomy of, 317 ; absence of, 317 ; white patches, 317 ; inflammation, 318; tubercle, 323; car- cinoma, 323 ; fat in, 324 ; air in, 324 Perimetritis, 757 Peiiosteum, inflammation of, 829; ossifi- cation in, 830 Periostitis, 829; specific forms of, 831 Peritoneum, malformations of, 652 ; re- troperitoneal hernia, 652; inflammation of, acute, 553 ; chronic, 555; tubercular, 555 ; chronic thickening in ascites, 557 ; new growths, 557 Peritonitis, 653; puerperal, 794; tuber- cular, 555 Pharynx and oesophagus, malformations, 549; dilatation of, 650; inflammation of, 650 ; fibrous tumours, 551; cancer of, 551 ; epithelioma, 651; round ulcers, 552; post-mortem softening, 552 Plilebectasis, 406INDEX. 870 Phlebitis, 400; endo-pblebitis, 401 Phlebolithes, 410 Phlegmasia dolens, 402 Phthisis, pulmonary, 500; catarrhal, 502; chronic, 505; haemorrhage in, 510; com- plications, 510; fibroid, 514 Phymosis, 740 Pliysometia, 759 Pia mater, morbid conditions of, 232 Pituitary body, 287 Placenta, 797; congestion, 797; inflam- mation, 798; myxomatous degenera- tion, 799 Pleiomazia, 789 Plethora, 41; causes of, 42; conse- quences, 43 Pleura, inflammation, 520; adhesions, 525; empyema, 527 ; pneumothorax, 528 ; hydxothorax, 529 ; hmmothorax, 530; gangrene, 530; adventitious pro- ducts, 530; tubercle, 532 Pleuritis, 520 Pneumatosis, 71 Pneumonia, 475; lobar, 475; minute changes in, 477; distribution of, 479; hypostatic, 481; typhoid, 482; lobular, 483; chronic, 489; caseous, 502 ; white (syphilitic), 518 Pneumothorax, 528 Polypi, cardiac, or fibrinous masses in the heart, 350; distinction from post- mortem clots, 351; bronchial, 448. Polypi, uterine, 763; vaginal, 749 Portal vein, thrombosis of, 630 Pregnancy, diseases of, 797; extra uterine, 802 Prolapsus ani, 582; of bladder, 704 Prostate gland, atrophy, hypertrophy, 735; results of hypertrophy, 736; acute inflammation, 736; ulceration, 737 ; tubercle, 737 ; cancer, fibrous tumours, cysts, 737; concretions, 737; calculi, 738 Psammoma, 171 Puerperal diseases, 790; local inflamma- tions, 790; secondary affections, 792; lymphangitis, 792; thrombosis and phlebitis, 793 ; peritonitis, 794 Puerperal fever, or puerperal pyaemia, 795; sequence of morbid changes, 795 ; specific theory, 796 ; bacteria or micro- cocci in, 796 Pus, 97; corpuscles, 99; formation of, 100; varieties of, 103; in the mine, 674 Purulent infiltration, 101 Pyaemia, 111 • experimental results, 113 ; pyeemic abscesses, 112;' characteristic lesions, 114; embolic theory, 116; specific theoiy, 117 ; minute organisms, 117; puerperal, 795 Pyelitis, 703 Ranula, 652 Recurrent tumours, 165 Red corpuscles of blood, 7 ; variations in number, 9; increase, 10; deficiency, 11; dissolution, 11 Respiration, organs of, 427 Retroperitoneal hernia, 552; tumours, 557 Rhachitis, or rickets, 815; changes of bones in, 846; minute changes in, 849 Rheumatic arthritis, chronic, 821 Salivary glands, inflammation of, 619; tumours, 651; fistuhe, 651; calculi, 652 Salpingitis, 779 Salts of blood, variations in, 29 Sarcina ventriculi, 207 Sarcocele, 725 Sarcoma, 165; varieties of, 168 Scirrhus, 173 Scrofula, scrofulous inflammation. 91; scrofulous material (so-called), 196 Scrotum, 733 ; elephantiasis, 733; epithe- lial cancer, 734 Septicaemia, 111, 118 Serum of blood, chemical constituents, 25 Sinuses of brain, thrombosis, 405 Softening, general process of, 123 Spanaemia, 11, 38 Spermatic cord, morbid conditions of. See Testes Spina bifida, 289, 801 Spinal cord and membranes, pathology of, 289 ; atrophy, 29.S ; congestion, 299 ; haemorrhage, 300 ; inflammation, 301; sclerosis, 302; local induration, 304 ; secondary degeneration, 305; new growths, 306 ; parasites, 307 Spinal curvatures, 819, S48 Spleen, changes in size, form, place, 652; wounds and ruptures, 655; hyjveraemia and anaemia, 655; inflammation, 656; infarctions or blocks, 656; hypertro- phies, 653; chronic thickening of cap- sule, 659; cancer and new growths, 657 ; tubercle, 657 ; cysts. 658 Stasis (inflammatory), 80, S4 Stomach, malformations, 55S; dilata- tion, 558; displacements, 559; acute inflammation, 559; catarrhal inflam- mation, 561; chronic changes, atro- phic, fibroid, cystic, mammillating, fatty, 562; croupy exudation, 56 4; effects of caustic fluids, 564; ulcera- tion, perforation, 566; ha?morrhage, 568; post-mortem softening, 569; new growths, 570; scirrhus of pylorus, 570; cancerous ulceration, 575; epithe- lioma, 573 ; induration, 573; sarcoma, 575 ; abnormal contents, 575 Stricture, of urethra, 712; of pylorus, 572 Strongylus gigas, 213 Supra-renal capsules, 662; constant alterations, 663; haemorrhage, 663; hypertrophy, 662: atrophy, 662; lar- daeeous disease. 663; suppuration, 663; tubercle, 664; cancer, 664 ; Addison’s disease, 665 Suppuration. 96; special forms, 101 Sympathetic system, pathology of, 315 Synovial membrane, 805; pulpy degene- ration, S10BTDEX, 871 Synovitis, acute, S06 ; chronic, 807 Syphilis, products of, syphiloma, 203 Taenia solium, 213; T. mediocanellata, T. echinococcus, 217 Tapeworms, 214 Teeth, malposition, 545; caries, 645; necrosis, 547 ; pulp diseases of, 548; periosteum of inflamed, 549 Teleangiectasis, 415 Testes, absence, malposition, 717 ; atro- phy, 718; acute inflammation of tunica vaginalis, 720; hydrocele, 720; encysted hydrocele, 721; diffuse hydrocele of spermatic cord, 722; encysted hydro- cele of cord, 722; htematocele, 722; diffused, hcematocele of. cord, 723; orchitis, 724; chronic orchitis, 724; syphilitic, 725; scrofulous, 726; tu- bercle, 727; secondary abscesses, 728; new growths, 728—733; cancer, 728; sarcoma, 729; cystic growth, 729, 732; loose bodies, 732; varicocele, 732 Tetanus, nerves in, 311; nerve centres, 299 Thrombosis, 391; in veins, 392 ; in arte- ries, 393; metamorptiosis of thrombi, 394; consequences of, 394 Thymus, hypertrophy, 662; tumours, 662; inflammation of, 661 Thyroid gland, inflammation of, 659; simple enlargement, 660; bronchocele, 660; dilatation of its vessels, 661; cancer, 661 Tongue, inflammation, 542 ; ulceration, 642 ; cancerous growths, 543; hyper- trophy, 541 Tonsils, inflammation, 544; structure of, 544; hypertrophy, 545 Trachea, pathology of, 441; ulceration, 442; ossification, 442; foreign bodies in, 443 Trichina spiralis, 212 Trichocephalus dispar, 212 Trichophyton tonsurans, 207 Trismus neonatorum, 294 Tubercle, 193; grey miliary tubercle, 193; yellow tubercle, 196; changes in tubercle, 197 ; connection of grey and yellow, 198; artificial production of, 200; theories about origin of, 203 Tubercular diseases (see under different organs) Tubercular peritonitis, 555; meningitis, 241; ulcers of intestine, 693 Tuberculosis, 203 Tunica vaginalis, morbid conditions of. See TC'tcs Typhlitis, 601 Typhoid fever, intestinal changes in, 589 Ulceration, from inflammation, 108; of heart, 327, 349; epiglottis, 433; trachea, 442; larynx, 437; bronchial tubes, 450 ; of stomach, 566 ; intestines, 587, 589, 593, 596, 603 ; os uteri, 767 ; bone (caiies), 836; cartilage, 815 Umbilical vein, patency of, 614 Ureemia, 34 Urethra, malformations, 710 ; dilatation of, 710; inflammation, 711; stricture, 712; tubercle, cancer, 713; female urethra, morbid conditions of, 713; vascular tumour of meatus, 714 Urethritis, 711 Uric acid, in the blood, 36; deposits of, 714, 715; in kidney, 690; in cartilages, 814 Urinary calculi, 715 Urinary deposits, in renal hypertemia, 670 ; in suppurative nephritis, 674; in cystitis, 708 Urinary passages, malformations, 701; dilatation, 701; inflammation, 703 ; diphtheritic inflammation, 703 ; cysts, tubercle, cancer, 704; parasites, 704 Urinary tract, deposits in various parts of, 714 Urine, in renal hypertemia, 670; in tu- bular nephritis, 686; in granular kidney, 693 Uriniferous tubes, deposit of urates in, 714 Uterus, 750; malformations of, 760; hypertrophy and atrophy, 751; con- dition in menstruation, 753; malpo- sitions of, 754; rupture of, 756; in- flammation, 756; accumulations in, 769; fibro-muscular tumours, 759; mucous and glandular polypi, 763; cysts, 764 ; tubercle, 765 ; cancer, 766; sarcoma, 768 Uterus, after parturition, 790 ; puerperal inflammations of, 791 Vagina, malformations, 746; stricture, 747, 742 ; injuries, 747 ; inflammation, 748; false membranes, 748; new growths, 749 Valves of the heart, diseases of, 353; calcareous deposit, 356; aneurism, 359; causes and results of, 360; mal- formations, 367; muscular fibre in, 368 Varicooele, 407 Varicose veins, 406, 408 Varix, 406 Vascular tumours, 147,149 Vas deferens, absent, 717; morbid con- ditions of (see Testes) Veins, inflammation, 400; coagulation and softening in, 392, 401; rupture, 406; dilatation, 406; obliteration, 409 ; now growths and deposits in, 409; entozoa in, 411 ; air in, 411 ; varicose veins, 408 Vesiculee ecminales, 734 Vomicm, in lungs, 507 Wasting palsy, 335 Water in blood, variations of, 30 White coipuncles of the blood, 9 ; patho- logical conditions of, 14LONDON: PARDON AND SON PRINTERS PATERNOSTER ROW.J. & A. CHURCHILL, NEW BURLINGTON STREET. MESSRS. CHURCHILL’S MEDICAL CLASS-BOOKS. anatomy. FLOWER (W. H.), F.R.S. Diagrams of the Nerves of the Human Body, second Edition, Six Plates, with Text, royal 4to, 12s. HEATH (CHRISTOPHER), F.R.C.S. Practical Anatomy: a Manual of Dissections. Imre Edition, with 240 Engravings, fcap. 8vo, 12s. 6d. HOLDEN (LUTHER), F.R.C.S. Human Osteology— with Plates showing the Attach- ments of the Muscles. Fifth Edition, 8vo. [In preparation. A Manual of the Dissection of the Human Body. Third Edition, with Engravings, Svo, 16s. WILSON (ERASMUS), F.R.S. The Anatomist’s Vade-Mecum. Edited by Dr. Or. Buchanan. Ninth Edition, with 371 Engravings, crown Svo, 14s. The Anatomical Remembrancer; or, Complete Pocket Anatomist- Seventh Edition, 32mo, 3s. 6d. BOTANY. BENTLEY (ROBERT), F.L.S. A Manual of Botany. Third Edition, with 1138. Engravings, crown Svo, 143. EAR, DISEASES OF. DALBY (W. B.), F.R.C.S., M.B. On Diseases and Injuries of the Ear. With Engravings, crown 8vo, 6s. 6d.2 MESSES. CHURCHILL'S MEDICAL CLASS-BOOKS. J. & A. CHURCHILL, NEW BURLINGTON STREET. CHEMISTRY. BERNAYS (ALBERT J.), Ph.D. Notes for Students in Chemistry: a Syllabus. Fifth Edition, fcap. 8vo, 3s. 6d. BLOXAM (C. L.). Chemistry, Inorganic and Organic; with Experiments. Second Edition, with 295 Engravings on Wood, 8vo, 16s. Laboratory Teaching; or, Progressive Exercises in Practical Chemistry, with Analytical Tables. Third Edition, with 89 En- gravings, crown Svo, 5s. 6d. BOWMAN (J. E.), and BLOXAM (C. L.). Practiced Chemistry, including Ancdysis. Sixth Edition, With 98 Engravings, fcap. 8vo, 6s. 6d. CLOWES (F.), B.Sc. Lond. Practiced Chemistry and Queditcdive Inorganic Analysis. With Engravings, crown Svo, 7s. 6d. FOWNES (G.), Ph.D., F.R.S. A Manned of Chemistry. Edited by Henry Watts, B.A., F.R.S. Eleventh Edition, with 163 Engravings, crown Svo, 15s. FRESENIUS (C. R.). Queditcdive Analysis. Translated by Arthur Yacher. Eighth Edition, with 47 Wood Engravings, Svo, 12s. 6d. Quantitative Ancdysis. Translated by Arthur Yacher. Sixth (reprint of Fourth) Edition, with 186 Wood Engravings, Svo, lSs. GALLOWAY (R.). The First Step in Chemistry. Fourth Edition, with Numerous Engravings, fcap. Svo, 6s. 6d. A Manual of Queditcdive Ancdysis. Fifth Edition, with Engravings, post Svo, Ss. 6d. VALENTIN (WM. G.). Introduction to Inorganic Chemistry. With S2 Engrav- ings, Svo, 6s. 6d. Qualitative Chemical Analysis. Third Edition, with 19 Engravings, Svo, 7s. 6cL3 MESSRS. CIIURCniTL'S MEDICAL CLASS-BOOKS. J. & A. CHURCHILL, NEW BURLINGTON STREET. CHILDREN, DISEASES OF. ELLIS (EDWARD), M.D. A Practical Manual of the Diseases of Children. With a Formulary. Second Edition, crown Svo, 7 s. STEINER (JOHANN). Compendium of the Diseases of Children. A Handbook for Practitioners and Students. Translated from the Second German Edition by Lawson Tait, F.R.C.S. Svo, 12s. 6d. DENTISTRY. COLES (OAKLEY). A Manual of Dental Mechanics. With 140 Wood Engravings, crown 8vo, 7s. 6d. SMITH (JOHN), M.D., F.R.S.E. Handbook of Dental Anatomy and Surgery. Second Edition, fcap. Svo, 4s. 6d. TOMES (JOHN), F. R.S., and TOMES (C. S.), B.A., M.R.C.S. A Manual of Dental Surgery. Second Edition, with 262 Engravings on Wood, fcap. Svo, 14s. FORENSIC MEDICINE. TAYLOR (ALFRED S.), M.D., F.R.S. The Principles and Practice of Medical Jurisprudence. Second Edition, with 189 Wood Engravings, 2 vols., Svo, 31s. 6d. A Manual of Medical Jurisprudence. Ninth Edition, with 55 Engravings, crown Svo, 14s. On Poisons in Relation to Medical Jurisprudence and Medicine. Third Edition, crown Svo. \_In the press. HYGIENE. PARKES (E. A.), M.D., F.R.S. A Manual of Practical Hygiene. Fourth Edition, with Plates and Woodcuts, 8vo, 16s. WILSON (GEORGE), M.A., M.D. A Handbook of Hygiene and Sanitary Science. Second Edition, with Engravings, crown 8vo, 8s. 6d.4 MESSRS. CHURCHILL'S MEDICAL CLASS-BOOKS. J. & A. CHURCHILL, NEW BURLINGTON STREET. MATERIA MEDICA AND THERAPEUTICS. PHILLIPS (CHARLES D, F.), M.D. Materia Medica and Therapeutics: Vegetable Kingdom. 8 vo, 15s.’ ROYLE (J. F.), M.D., F.R.S., and HEADLAND (F. W.), M.D. A Manual of Materia Medica. Fifth Edition, with 113 Engravings on Wood, fcap. 8vo, 12s. 6d. THOROWGOOD (JOHN C.), M.D., F.R.C.P. The Student’s Guide to Materia Medica. "With Engrav- ings, fcap. 8vo, 6s. 6d. WARING (E. J.), M.D., F.R.C.P. A Manual of Practical Therapeutics. Third Edition, fcap. 8vo, 12s. 6d. MEDICINE. BARCLAY (A. W.), M.D., F.R.C.P. A Manual of Medical Diagnosis. Third Edition, fcap 8vo, I Os. 6d. BARLOW (G. H.), M.D., F.R.C.P. A Manual of the Practice of Medicine. Second Edition, fcap. Svo, 12s. 6d. FENWICK (S.), M.D., F.R.C.P. The Student’s G-uide to Medical Diagnosis. Third Edi- tion, with 87 Engravings, fcap. Svo, 6s. 6d. HEADLAND (F. W.), M.D., F.R.C.P. The Action of Medicines in the System. Fourth Edition, 8vo, 14s. PATHOLOGY. JONES (C. H.), M.B., F.R.S., and SIEVEKING (E. H.), M.D. A Manual of Pathological Anatomy. Edited by Dr. J. F. Payne. Second Edition. With 195 Engravings, crown Svo. WILKS (SAMUEL), M.D., F.R.S., and MOXON (WAL- TER), M.D., F.R.C.P. Lectures on Pathological Anatomy. Second Edition. Enlarged and Revised, with 7 Steel Plates. Svo.MUSSES. CHURCHILL'S MEDICAL CLASS-BOOKS. J. & A. CHURCHILL, NEW BURLINGTON STREET. MIDWIFERY. BARNES (ROBERT), M.D., F.R.C.P. Lectures on Obstetric Operations: a Guide to the Manage- ment of Difficult Labour. Second Edition, with 113 Engravings, Svo, 15s. CLAY (CHARLES), M.D. The Complete Handbook of Obstetric Surgery; or, Short Rules of Practice in every Emergency. Third Edition, with 91 Engravings, fcap. Svo, 6s. 6d. RAMSBOTHAM (F. H.), M.D., F.R.C.P. The Principles and Practice of Obstetric Medicine and Surgery. Fifth. Fditiou, with 120 Plates, Svo, 22s. SCHROEDER (KARL). A Manual of Midwifery, including the Pathology of Pregnancy and the Puerperal State. Translated by Charles H. Carter, M.D., with Engravings, Svo, 12s. 6d. SWAYNE (J. G.), M.D. Obstetric Aphorisms for the Use of Students commencing Midwifery Practice. Fifth Edition, with Engravings, fcap. Svo, 3s. Gd. OPHTHALMOLOGY. JONES (T. WHARTON), F.R.S. A Manned of Ophthalmic Medicine and Surgery. With 9 Coloured Plates and 173 Wood Engravings. Third Edition, fcap. 8vo, 12s. 6d. LIEBREICH (R.), M.R.C.S. Atlas of Ophthalmoscopy: Composed of 12 Chromo-Litho- graphic Plates (containing 59 Figures). The Text translated into English by H. R. Swanzy, M.B. Second Edition, 4to, £1 10s. MACNAMARA (C). A Manual of the Diseases of the Dye. Second Edition, with 7 Coloured Plates and 52 Wood Engravings, fcap. Svo, 12s. 6d. WELLS (J. SOELBERG), F.R.C.S. A Treatise on the Diseases of the Eye. Third Edition, with Coloured Plates and Wood Engravings, Svo, 25s.6 MESSRS. CHURCHILL’S MEDICAL CLASS-BOOKS. J. & A. CHUECHILL, NEW BURLINGTON STREET. PHYSICS. BROOKE (CHARLES), M.B., M.A., F.R.S. The Elements of Natural Philosophy. Sixth Edition, with 701 Engravings, fcap. Svo, 12s. 6d. KOHLRAUSCH (F.). An Introduction to Physical Measurements. Translated by T. H. Waller, B.A., B.Sc., and H. B. Procter, F.C.S. With Engravings, 8vo, 12s. RODWELL (G. F.), F.R.A.S. Notes on Natural Philosophy: Lectures delivered at Guy’s Hospital. With 48 Engravings, fcap. Svo, 5s. PHYSIOLOGY. BUCHANAN (ANDREW), M.D. The Forces which carry on the Circulation of the Blood. Second Edition. With Engravings, 8vo, cloth, 5s. CARPENTER (W. B.), M.D., F.R.S. Principles of Human Physiology. Edited by Mr. Henry Power. Seventh Edition, nearly 300 Engravings, Svo, 2Ss. A Manual of Physiology. Fifth Edition, with Engrav- Pugg. [In preparation. FREY (HEINRICH), M.D. The Histology and Histo-Chcmistry of Man. A Treatise on the Elements of Composition and Structure of the Human Body. Translated from the Fourth German Edition by Arthur E. J. Barker, and Bevised by the Author. With 608 IV ood Engravings. Svo, 21s. SANDERSON (J. B.), M.D., F.R.S. ; KLEIN (E.), M.D. ; FOSTER (M.), M.D., F.R.S.; and BRUNTON (T. L.), M.D., D.Sc. Handbook for the Physiological Laboratory: containing an Exposition of the Fundamental Facts of the Science, with explicit Directions for them Demonstration. Two vols., with 126 Plates, Svo, £1 4s.MESSRS. CEURCMIirS MEDICAL CLASS-BOOKS. 7 J- Sc A. CHURCHILL, NEW BURLINGTON STREET. PSYCHOLOGY. BUCKNILL (J. C.), M.D., F.R.S.; and TUKE (D. H.), M.D. A Manual of Psychological Medicine. Third Edition, with 10 Plates and 34 Wood Engravings, 8vo, 25s. SANKEY (W. H. O.), M.D., F.R.C.P. Lectures on Mentcd Diseases. 8vo, 8s. SHEPPARD (EDGAR), M.D., F.R.C.P. Lectures on Madness in its Medical, Legal, and Social Aspects. 8vo, 6s. 6d. SURGERY. BELLAMY (E.), F.R.C.S. The Student’s Guide to Surgical Anatomy. With 50 Engravings, feap. 8vo, 6s. 6d. BRYANT (T.), F.R.C.S. The Practice of Surgery: a Manual. With 507 En- gravings on Wood, crown 8vo, 21s. CLARK (F. LE GROS), F.R.C.S., and WAGSTAFFE (W. W.), F.R.C.S. Outlines of Surgery and Surgical Pathology. Second Edition, Svo, 10s. 6d. DRUITT (R.), F.R.C.S. The Surgeon’s Vacle-Mccum. Tenth Edition, with numerous Engravings, fcap. 8vo, 12s. 6d. FERGUSSON (Sir WILLIAM), Bart., F.R.S. A System of Practiced Surgery. Fifth Edition, with 463 Engravings, 8vo, 21s. HEATH (CHR.), F.R.C.S. A Manual of Minor Surgery and Bandaging. Fourth Edition, with 74 Engravings, fcap. 8vo, 5s. 6d. MAUNDER (C. F.), F.R.C.S. Operative Surgery. Second Edition, with 164 Engrav- ings, post 8vo, 6s. PIRRIE (WILLIAM), M.D., F.R.S.E. The Principles and Practice of Surgery. Third Edition, with 490 Engravings on Wood, 8vo, 28s.MESSRS. CHUR CEILV S MEDICAL CLASS-BOOKS. 8 J. & A. CHURCHILL, NEW BURLINGTON STREET. TERMINOLOGY. DUNGLISON (R.), M.D. Medical Lexicon: a Dictionary of Medical Science, con- taining a concise Explanation of its various Subjects and Terms, with Accentuation, Etymology, Synonymes, &c. New Edition, royal Svo, 28s. IAYNE (R.G,). M.D., LL.D., and MAYWE (JOHN), M.D. A Medical Vocabulary; or, an Explanation of all Xarnes, Synonymes, Terms, and Phrases used in Medicine and the Rela- tive Branches of Medical Science. Fourth Edition, fcap. 8vo. [In the press. WOMEN, DISEASES OF. BARKER (FORDYCE), M.D. Clinical Lectures on Puerperal Diseases. Syo, 15s. BARNES (ROBERT), M.D., F.R.C.P. A Clinical History of the Medical and Surgical Diseases of Women. With 169 Engravings, Svo, 28s. WEST (CHARLES), M.D., F.R.C.P. Lectures on the Diseases of Women. Third Edition, Svo, 16s. ZOOLOGY. CHAUVEAU (A.), and FLEMING (G). The Comparative Anatomy of Domesticated Animals. With 450 Wood Engravings, Svo, £1 11s. 6d. GREENE (J. REAY), M.D. Tables of Zoology. Three Large Sheets, 5s. the Set; or Mounted on Canvas with Roller, 12s. 6d. HUXLEY (T. H.) LL.D., F.R.S. Manual of the Anatomy of Vcrtebmted Animals. M ith 110 Engravings, fcap. Svo, 12s. Introduction to the Classification of Animals. With Engravings, Svo, 6s. ORD (WM. MILLER), M.B. Notes on Comparative Anatomy. Crown Svo, 5s. WILSON (ANDREW). The Student's Guide to Zoology: a Manual of the Erm- ciples of Zoological Science. With Engravings, fcap. Svo, 6s. 60.■SQML. ■Helrt O uii~an M :• >.«>’ft•.rwrii'.(/•, t, ,.>•:* »V*4j -V-* £\AjivUf»',X* t-t W@*iS;^w '« .': ; ’> • •’■, ; • :.-. ■ :• ’ • •• • \ U'.».i\> i\.rK »>. *?••..*?••>.vV,v‘.,‘ J' .-Sir* i*>fu>tui»v»\»u\»u vuKl«\»i»WivVUv»'.. UU’.».»'.♦ .• ;•** '.*•• lv»»i\«* i' ■• * •■ J* %**< l *'.« 41. 8 | P ii 1 lpp M I ■ 1 1 H gP SwwB