114 ANEURISM BY ANASTOMOSIS. the object being to remove the tumour by excision, by sloughing, or to alter its condition by exciting inflammation: in the second, the force of the current of blood is taken off, diminution of the swelling succeeds, coagulation perhaps occurs, adhesion, and obliteration. In certain instances, local treatment cannot be adopted, as when the disease occurs in the orbit, antrum, or other deep-seated parts; and in such cases, ligature of the common carotid, or other large vessel, whose branches lead directly to the disease, is the only re- source. Fortunately, such operations have often proved successful, and therefore there is some encouragement to adopt them, although I should, on most occasions, when practicable, be inclined to prefer local measures only. If it is not wished to make free use of the knife, a variety of plans are at the command of the surgeon, with which he may attempt a cure—the immediate object of all of them being inflammation. This process may be excited by pressure, vaccination, by caustic, by heated wires, by needles, setons, single threads, or by subcutaneous incisions. Pressure may be, in some cases, applied both on the tumour and on the vessels leading to it, as on the scalp, for instance, but it can seldom be done with great effect. On children, who are most fre- quently the subjects of practice for this disease, it is difficult to keep bandages and hard pads properly applied, and it does not often hap- pen that the tumours are so situated that the plan can be available. Unless there be bone immediately below the mass, sufficient pressure cannot be applied. This method has first the effect of preventing the blood from circulating in the enlarged vessels, and then producing inflammatory action. Of the method by means of plaster of Paris I have no experience. * The method by vaccination is rarely put into practice, for although the disease is often congenital, it is seldom that any operation is thought of or required, before or at the usual age for this proceeding ; moreover, it is only in instances where the tumour is very small, that such a mode could have sufficient effect. Caustic potash has been used with good effect; but unless the tumour be very small, and the caustic freely applied at first, or often repeated, it is, in my opinion, inferior to some other modes of treatment, although it is backed with the recommendation of Mr. Wardrop. The practice of pushing heated wires or needles into such tumours, will cause sloughing and inflammation. Professor Pattison has suc- ceeded in this way, and speaks highly in its favour. I have frequently obliterated small vascular points by passing a needle through the disease, and twisting a thread around it as in making the twisted suture. On these occasions, I have sometimes withdrawn the needle in the course of eight-and-forty hours, in other instances, allowed it to remain longer, and in some, to separate by ulceration.