413 TUMOURS IN THE NECK. long ago pointed out the possibility of this disease being supposed to be in the carotid or other large vessels at the root of the neck, when, in reality, in the arch of the aorta or innominata ; but elsewhere their diagnosis is usually very clear. I once saw a large deep-seated abscess above the clavicle, in the course of the right subclavian artery, which in many respects, and on a slight examination, resembled an aneurism of this vessel. Upon the whole, however, a' mistake can scarcely occur in such cases if anything like reasonable care be taken in these investigations. The difficulties of deciding a question as to the removal of cer- tain tumours by incision can scarcely be appreciated, unless by those who have such cases before them. The mobility of such growths I consider the most valuable criterion of all; and if it were evident that the part slid freely over the subjacent textures, I should not hesitate about using the knife, whatever might be the bulk of the disease, provided there was no other circumstance to contra-in- dicate such a proceeding ; but if, on the other hand, the tumour seemed fixed to the neighbouring parts, if its limits were not clearly defined, if an attempt to move it caused pain, I should not readily be induced to use the knife, however small the mass might be. When the tumour is under the platysma, or superficial fascia, in or under the parotid, it is likely to present most of the latter objectionable cha- racters ; yet a careful examination with the finger may probably lead the surgeon to perceive that it is only bound down by the textures over it, but not inseparably connected with those in the vicinity. If two or more lymphatic glands are affected at the same time, it will be well to watch the progress of the case before deciding to attempt re- moval ; for if these organs be predisposed to disease, many of them may speedily assume the same condition, and in such examples no operation is justifiable. Many years ago I attended a boy with a tumour about the size of a small orange, in the upper part of the neck, which it was proposed to remove ; but as it seemed fixed, and the case seemed otherwise unfavourable for such practice, I did not interfere ; within a few months small glandular swellings could be detected on the opposite side ; these gradually increased, and the patient ulti- mately died from starvation and suffocation occasioned by an enor- mous swelling on each side of the throat, which impeded both deglu- tition and respiration. Dissection showed that most of the lymphatic glands in this situation were more or less involved, and that the pharynx was encompassed behind and at the sides with the diseased mass, which, in addition surrounded the main vessels in such a manner, that 1 had reason to congratulate myself on my non-inter- ference. In museums there are generally plenty of specimens of similar cases, where probably the common carotid, internal jugular and par vagum, are seen passing through the centre of the enlargement. I know of one instance where a surgeon, in attempting to.remove such a tumour, cut all these parts across, and secured them in one ligature ; the result (death) will not be difficult to conjecture.