THE HEAD AND NECK. 478 can be cast around it. When the condyle and neck are separated, the artery lies in a large wound, whose depth is not so great as to prevent the orifice being seized with forceps, or transfixed with a tenaculum; but if the operator thrusts the knife deep behind the ascending ramus, so to wound this vessel, the root of the temporal, or perhaps even the external carotid itself, and is afterwards awkward and slow in effect- ing the removal of the bone, the bleeding might be very copious. To avoid such a danger, it may probably be best to proceed from before backwards; and as in this way the temporal muscle should be separated from the coronoid process, there will thus be less difficulty in effecting that process of twisting which I have recommended. Besides the external maxillary artery, which must of necessity be wounded, the transverse facial branches must be divided by the ver- tical part of the incision over the ramus: these will bleed profusely for a minute or two ;—probably ere the wound is closed not one may require a ligature; but here, as in all other parts of the body, it is well to act on the safe side, and better, therefore, to apply two or three ligatures too many than one too few. The most of the branches of the portio dura will also be divided, and the features will be drawu to the opposite side in a conspicuous manner, though ultimately this condition will become less observable. A fold of lint, small in proportion to the size of the tumour which may have been removed, should then be placed in the wound; over this the edges should be approximated, and held together by stitches of interrupted suture, a needle and twisted thread being, however, kept in the end of the wound at the margin of the lip. Some straps may be of advantage, by closing the gaps between the threads ; and here, perhaps, the isinglass plaster may be advantageously used, as it is less likely to cause irritation than the common resinous adhesive kind. The saliva from the divided ducts of the parotid, and also from the sublingual and submaxillary glands, may be allowed to take its own course : perhaps it may flow into the mouth ; possibly it may ooze in whole or in part through the wound at various points; but, in the latter event, the external apertures will ultimately close, though in some instances not till the lapse of several weeks. Everything before, during, and after the operation, regarding the proper position of the portion of jaw which is to be left, the tongue, the dressing of the wound, &c., &c., must be attended to and conducted according to rules already laid down. 1 have recommended the sitting posture as being most convenient, for the blood is thus permitted to escape from the mouth. Sometimes a patient will faint, and must then be laid on his back,—indeed, whe- ther or not it is always best to do so as soon as the disease has been removed. It has often happened that these proceedings have been retarded by sickness and vomiting; and, considering their severity, I need scarcely point out the propriety of having wine at hand con- tained in a vessel (such as a teapot), with a spout ol sufficient length to permit the contents being poured into the back ot the mouth.