GANGRENE. MORTIFICATION. 82 when they touch the latter, they will kill, and thus produce only fur- ther mischief. It is good practice, on many occasions to rub the sur- face of a sloughing, ill-conditioned, languid ulcer, freely with caustic, or even with the heated iron; but here, be it remarked, there is a slough already present, or it is intended to convert the surface into one by this direct and killing measure, for in the latter case the appli- cation seems to have the effect of causing nature to bring the disease to a crisis, as it were, and no longer to leave all the parts in a half- dead state, the surface being thus killed outright, and the adjacent vessels excited to a more healthy action. It is customary in the in- stance of carbuncle to cut freely into the gangrenous and mortified tex- tures, but the object of doing so is apparently not understood by some. The incision in such cases should never penetrate beyond the actual gangrene and sphacelus: it should, however, be close upon those parts where the separation is expected to take place; for, under these cir- cumstances, the stimulating applications influence the living tissues much more readily, than when conveyed through the whole thickness of a slough. Stimulants in these cases are most commonly applied through the medium of poultices and lotions. A bread and water poultice, with a little tincture of myrrh, oil of turpentine, port wine, or such irritating fluids, poured over its surface, may suffice, or the common fermenting poultice may be used with benefit. Sometimes resinous ointment, by itself, or mixed with turpentine, is spread over the surface of such poultices. At the periods of dressing great care is taken to wash away all foul discharges, and no fluid answers better for such purpose, I think, than a mixture of tincture of myrrh and water, of the strength of half a drachm, or a drachm to the ounce, or according to the stimulus supposed to be necessary. Of late years it has been much the custom to use solutions of chlorine for such purposes; chiefly, however, to correct the offensive smell of the slough. By such means, and by time, a slough will at last become en- tirely detached, and may then be lifted away, or if it be left by a few shreds only, these may be cut across with the scissors, and when the large mass has been removed, the small remaining portions of these shreds may be left to separate afterwards. The surface, at the period of the removal of a slough, is usually covered by healthy granulations inclined to heal over, and no particular treatment is required further than that already referred to in the chapter devoted to granulation and cicatrization. Perhaps the most troublesome cases of partial mortification, which the surgeon has to deal with, are those which occur over the sacrum, in persons who are long confined to bed from fevers, chronic diseases, or fractures. As pressure seems in all such cases to lie the immediate cause of the affection, the exposed parts, such as the skin on the back of the pelvis, over the prominences of the scapulae, the great trochanters, and the heels, should be defended by soap plasters, and when, unfor- tunately, sloughing occurs, (or ulceration, for the treatment of either