243 DISSECTIONS. the examination of the anterior part of the thigh may be deemed completed. The subject should now be turned on its face, to allow of the ex- amination of the sole of the foot and posterior surface of the lower extremity. An incision should be made through the skin, from the heel along the sole, midway between its margins, as far as the root of the second toe, or, what will be better, as far as its point; an- other should be carried from the posterior extremity of this, three or four inches up the leg, over the tendo Achillis; a flap should then be dissected towards each side of the foot, and raised so as to show the posterior and lateral parts of the ankle, as well as a portion of the tendon above-named ; the lower surface of the first and second toe should also be exposed, and a transverse incision made at the roots of the others, to allow the outer flap to be sufficiently turned aside: an incision beginning near the anterior extremity of the one along the sole of the foot, and ending at the point of each toe, will allow of the exposure of its lower surface. The skin on the inferior part of the os calcis and at the anterior extremity of the sole will be found remarkably thick and firm in its texture; these peculiari- ties being chiefly in the cuticle. The principal feature in the dis- section will be the plantar aponeurosis, which will be observed to extend from the os calcis to the roots of the toes, where it is lost, much in the same way as is the palmar aponeurosis at the roots of the fingers. The membrane will be found of great strength about the middle of the foot; and at each side, though much thinner, it can readily be made out, covering the muscles connected with the great and little toe. In raising the skin from the os calcis towards the internal malleolus, some aponeurotic fibres will be remarked extending between these two parts, and if these be cut across about midway, the posterior tibial artery with its accompanying veins, along with the nerve which lies nearer the heel than the vessels, will be easily dis- covered after a few touches with the scalpel. The plantar aponeurosis should now be raised by cutting it across a little in front of its attachment to the os calcis, and turning it towards the toes. In the first part of this dissection the aponeurosis will be found closely connected with the flexor brevis muscle; towards the middle of the foot, however, the two can be readily separated. The aponeurotic fibres, towards the outer and inner margins, can scarcely be raised along with the more fully developed fibres in the centre; they may, therefore, be removed separately. The posterior tibial artery should now be traced into the sole of the foot: between the malleolus and os calcis it will be observed to be covered only by the integuments and the transverse fibres already alluded to; but in the sole, it is covered by the flexor brevis digito- rum, which should, therefore, be cut across at its connexion with the os calcis, and turned towards the toes, so as to allow of the branches being distinctly made out. At the inner margin of the flexor brevis, the vessel will be seen dividing into two,—the external and