471 CHAPTER X. OPERATIONS ON THE JAWS. The jaws and other bones of the face are subject to caries and necrosis. Perhaps caries is most frequently seen in the upper maxilla and contiguous bones,—necrosis oftener in the lower jaw ; and the surgeon may occasionally show both great skill and dexterity in re- moving such sources of irritation. Such proceedings are usually very simple, although sometimes the sequestrum in the latter is so large as to cause the operation for its extraction to be almost as formidable as for the excision of a portion of the bone for tumour. If possible the dis- eased or dead portions should be removed through the mouth ; but some- times, especially in the lower jaw, free external incisions are absolutely necessary. I have seen the whole of one side of this bone, from the mental foramen to its neck, removed in a state of necrosis ; and recent- ly I extracted a very considerable portion of the base of this bone, be- ing at the same time obliged to divide the facial artery. The swelling in such cases is usually very alarming to the inexperienced, but it soon subsides after the operation. Abscesses (gumboils) frequently form in the vicinity of the alveoli, which for a time usually occasion considerable pain and swelling. I deem it good practice in these instances to make an early and rather free incision, as, besides the relief thus given, there is less chance of the matter getting into contact with the bone, in which event caries is not unlikely to be the result. Tumours of various kinds form in connexion with the mouth and jaws. They may be on the gums, or in the bones ; but when large, it rarely is otherwise than that both are more or less affected. The term epulis is generally used to denote tumours of the gums : such growths are invariably of a sarcomatous character, — at one time the mass is soft and spongy, at another of a more solid kind,—probably medullary, and in rarer instances a melanotic deposit occurs. At first there is, perhaps, only a small spot on the outer or inner side of the gums, but gradually, unless the surgeon interferes, the neighbouring parts are involved, until at last the disease becomes extensive — implicating perhaps the whole alveolar processes in the vicinity, and even some of the more solid textures beyond. The hard parts of the jaws are in some instances primarily affected: here the swelling may consist of solid bone—a kind of exostosis, or, it may be an osseous cyst containing a glairy or a serous fluid,—■ in one example it may be a mixture of spiculm or lamina; of bone,