THE CHEST, ABDOMEN, AND PELVIS. 544 on a patient about seven years old. I found, on coming to separate the two with the knife, that a slight force enabled me to effect this with far less pain than by the instrument. Circumcision was after- wards performed, stitches were used, and in less than a week the parts appeared almost as if nothing had been done. The condition was supposed to have obtained for some considerable time, and during erections, with which he was much troubled at night time, the pain from an overtight fraenum was sufficient to deprive the boy of his na- tural rest. In many cases of the kind above alluded to I deem it the duty of a surgeon to recommend an operation at an early and favourable oppor- tunity, as the patient may be thus saved from much after distress. Most practitioners must have seen extensive ulceration and sloughing in some such instances, during venereal inflammations. In one instance the glans appears through a slough at the root and upper part of the fore- skin, whose natural orifice is thus carried below the penis; in another example, one half or more of the glans suffers (ulcerates — sloughs) ere the mischief is suspected, and it is a current doctrine, that, indepen- dent of venereal affections, the extremity of the organ, from never being thoroughly cleansed, is in some degree predisposed to scirr- hous or cancerous action. I have myself seen one instance where the end of the penis was amputated in consequence of a malignant looking tumour having its origin evidently from this condition of the foreskin. Amputation of the end of the penis may be done in the following manner:—The part to be removed should be grasped in the left hand, when the surgeon, with a stout bistoury or small catlin, should effect the separation with one stroke of the blade. An assistant may have hold of the root of the organ, and can restrain the hemorrhage by pressure, until ligatures are placed upon the dorsal arteries, those in the corpus cavernosum, and such others as may require them. The wound will heal by granulation, and towards the latter part of the treatment some attention may be necessary, by the introduction of bougies, to keep the orifice of the urethra open, as it has a great tendency to contract. There is no occasion to preserve the skin by drawing it upwards before the incision is made : even when it is drawn towards the diseased part, as is sometimes done, there is always a sufficiency to cover the cut surface, for the corpus cavernosum re- tracts greatly as soon as it is divided. I have now seen this opera- tion performed six times in the manner above described, having ope- rated on two of these occasions myself.