466 THE HEAD AND NECK. or other of these ducts. I have one in my possession the size of a kidney-bean ; but more frequently the swelling, which is always more or less present, is occasioned by a collection of glairy straw-coloured fluid : in either instance the point of a lancet or bistoury will make way for the escape of the contents of the dilated duct, and afterwards, in all probability, the saliva will keep an opening for itself as it con- tinues to flow into the mouth. Should this close and the swelling return, means must be taken, by cutting away a portion of the sac, and by inserting dressings into the wound, to prevent such an occur- rence in future. I have not witnessed any of the modem, so-called, operations for stammering, whether by division of the muscles attached to the genial processes, cutting wedges out of the tongue, or otherwise, and therefore, have had no experience in such matters. Sometimes it is necessary to remove portions of the tongue for sup- posed scirrhous indurations or cancerous ulcers. Before resorting to mutilations of this organ it will be well to ascertain the effects of various local remedies and of constitutional treatment in such cases. The mucous membrane here sympathizes in a remarkable manner with functional derangement of the digestive organs, and often, when it may be least expected, a change of treatment will avert all cause of alarm. If the apex of the tongue is to be removed, it should be protruded between the lips, seized with hook-beaked forceps and divided by scissors or knife. The bleeding will seldom prove trouble- some. If, however, the separation is required towards the middle of the organ, the dorsal arteries or the ranine may prove so, and a cautious surgeon will wisely prefer ligatures to the cutting instrument. He may proceed thus : The point of a needle in a handle, (p. 30,) armed with thin whip-cord, should be pushed through the tongue behind the seat of disease, and when the ligature at its eye is laid hold of by the fingers, the instrument should be withdrawn : next the cord should be cut, and then a Ann noose can be tied on each side, so as to cause the disease to slough away. On the side of the tongue it is more difficult to accomplish such a proceeding, but -when there is disease in this situation, unless it be limited indeed, it is seldom that the surgeon will interfere. I have known large portions of the organ removed with a free application of cutting instruments and no great trouble experienced from the divided vessels, yet, I think it would be well on all such occasions to take the chance of such an occurrence into consideration. Every one must have felt the trouble and difficulty of applying ligatures to the tongue after accidental injuries, whether for the purpose of securing vessels or approximating the edges of wounds. In one instance I secured the dorsal artery by passing a tenaculum deep into the muscular fibres and casting a noose of strong thread under the convexity of the instrument. The vessel had been wounded by one of the upper incisors, and had bled for ten hours. M. Jules Cloquet has removed a portion of the tongue through an incision between the symphysis and the hyoid bone, and my excellent