144 the superior extremity. treated in the same way, and thus a full view of the brachialis anti- cus muscle, covering the anterior part of the elbow-joint, will be ob- tained. A circular incision should now be made through all the remaining textures, about three inches above the elbow, down to the bone which should then be sawn through. The articulations on the sepa- rated part should next be examined; and this can now be most con- veniently done, the part being separated from the body, as the limb requires to be frequently turned for such a purpose. Possibly, ere the parts are separated in the manner here recom- mended, the dissector may wish to obtain a more connected view of the biceps, vessels, nerves, and other parts, and, if so, he may conti- nue the dissection in the mode described at p. 147, and after remov- ing the extremity, may then proceed with the examination of the liga- ments, beginning with the shoulder, or at the following paragraph, as he may feel inclined. Instructions have already been given (p. 138) for dissecting the articulations of the phalanges. The joint between each proximal pha- lanx and the corresponding metacarpal bone, will next demand atten- tion. The tendons should be taken off the anterior and posterior surface of one of these joints, (that of the finger already dissected will answer,) and by cutting away the vessels and nerves, the interossei and lumbricales muscles, the strong lateral ligaments, extending be- tween the metacarpal bone and the first phalanx, will be readily made out. The posterior surface of the joint will be observed to be covered with the loose synovial membrane, and the anterior will have a firm (almost fibro-cartilaginous) texture over it, which intervenes between the flexor tendons and the synovial membrane, and which, if examined carefully, will be found to be a thick portion of the transverse liga- ment which passes in front of the ends of the four metacarpal bones in this situation. The joint may now be cut into by dividing one or both of the lateral ligaments, when the rounded extremity of the me- tacarpal bone will be observed to fit into a corresponding concavity on the phalanx, and that so completely, that, unless they be a little sepa- rated, a knife cannot be carried through between these bones without cutting portions of both, or of the cartilages covering them. The dissection of one of these joints will suffice, therefore the arti- culation of the thumb with its metacarpal bone may next be exa- mined ; and as this one is somewhat more interesting in a surgical point of view, than any of those in the hand, some additional care may be bestowed upon it. The muscles forming the ball of the thumb should first be carefully dissected: the adductor pollicis should also be cleared, and due notice should be taken of the great developement of muscular fibre in this situation, in proportion to the bulk of the hand, or of the bones with which the muscles are connected; for these are points worthy of consideration in reference to fractures, and more particularly dislocations, occurring in the thumb. The muscles and their tendons may next be cut through, when lateral ligaments, differing