532 CHEST, ABDOMEN, AND PELVIS. cavity heals by granulation. Doubtless in such cases much de- pends on the manner in which the operation is performed, but much also may be attributed to the care in dressing; for unless the lint (usually, after the first occasion, covered with a little spermaceti ointment) be kept in the bottom of the granulating surface, the exter- nal part of the wound may close, and a sinus still remain. This, however, but rarely happens; whilst, on tire other hand, with every attention, after a well-executed operation, ulceration or abscess may come on, new sinuses may form, and the proceedings may all require to be repeated. In such a case, as indeed in all instances of fistula in ano, it may be well to ascertain the condition of the patient’s lungs; for the coincidence of fistula with disease of these organs is often re- markable. I need scarcely state that a surgeon would seldom be jus- tified in interfering with a sinus under such circumstances. But fistula in ano will sometimes show itself when there is no suspicion of disease in the chest. Some time ago 1 had occasion to lay open a sinus on the verge of the anus in a man about fifty years of age, whose appearance did not in any way betoken even a disposition to chest affections : at first the wound went on favourably enough, but in three weeks, when it should have been nearly healed, its condition was much the same as within a few days of the operation, only that there seemed less action on the surface: it continued thus for nearly two months, notwith- standing every variety of treatment which could be feasibly resorted to, both as regarded local and constitutional means, when more decided change of air was recommended. During all this time there was no complaint of any pain within the chest,—no circumstance to lead to suspicion even that something was wrong,—yet in the course of three months this person died of rapid consumption, the wound keeping open all along. If two or more sinuses are present, they should be exposed in the same way, at the same time, and treated in a similar manner. On one individual I have laid open five deep sinuses at the same period, and after he had been repeatedly operated on before by another prac- titioner. By great care on the part of my assistant, Dr. George Wil- liamson, now of the Hospital Staff, Fort Pitt, all these wounds healed kindly from the bottom, and the patient was ultimately enabled to re- sume his duties as assistant-surgeon in the Navy. Here there was complete loss of power over the sphincter for a considerable time ; but ultimately this unfortunate condition wore off. Unless the wound be very deep, there is seldom any bleeding likely to do harm. Should it be more copious than may be desired, the wound should be firmly stuffed with lint, and a pad should be retained over it by a bandage. If the sinus is on the left side of the perineum, the surgeon may