545 CHAPTER VII. OPERATIONS FOR RETENTION OF URINE.—INTRODUCTION OF INSTRUMENTS INTO THE URETHRA AND BLADDER. In cases of retention of urine, when it is found that the ordinary diuretics and antispasmodics, warm baths, &c., prove of no avail, and when moreover it is impossible to introduce a catheter into the blad- der in the ordinary manner, it may become necessary to evacuate the urine through some artificial opening into the viscus. The bladder may be punctured in a variety of ways and places. For example, if the obstruction is near the neck of the organ, the catheter may be forced along in the course of the original urethra, or as near to it as possible. Perhaps in this manoeuvre it will pass through the substance of the prostate; but this should not constitute an objection to the plan, for the new passage may in every respect be as efficient as one formed by puncture or incision in any other way. Here I beg it to be under- stood, that it is not meant by the above recommendation to counte- nance the formation of what is commonly termed a “ false passage,” —a phrase which is generally used to imply, that the instrument has not been carried along the natural course, which might have been ac- complished with greater care or greater skill. That this blunder is often committed there can be no doubt; but the above mode of pro- cedure is advised under the supposition that the urethra has become in a manner impervious, either from stricture, or alteration in the size and shape of the prostate. If this method is not selected, the bladder may be opened above the pubes in the following manner:—The patient being laid on a table, with his shoulders and knees slightly raised, an incision about three inches long should be made above the symphysis through the skin and linea alba, when the cellular tissue in front of the bladder will be exposed, and the viscus may be opened with the point of the knife, or what will be better, with a trochar and canula. The latter may be left in the wound for some days afterwards, or, in preference, a flexible gum catheter should be introduced and retained. When such a pro- ceeding is required the bladder will perhaps be greatly distended, and will consequently be prominent in the hypogastric region ; its upper end will therefore be so far above the pubes as to have carried the peritoneum beyond much risk: such a danger, however, should not be overlooked, and every care should be taken that this membrane is really above that part where the puncture is about to be made. There must be danger from the proximity of the serous surface in case of the escape of urine into the cavity, or of inflammation; but there may be equal danger perhaps in making the puncture too close to the pubes; for as the bladder contracts, the orifice may sink so much into the pelvis that infiltration may ensue. 2 N