DISSECTION'S. •239 The leg cannot be so conveniently moved as the upper extremity, and it will, therefore, be best to examine the whole anterior surface before turning the subject. With this view, an incision should now be made through the skin and cellular membrane, which should ex- tend from the transverse cut below, along the anterior surface of the leg, over the patella, and three or four inches up the thigh. At this part a transverse division should be made, and the skin dissected to each side of the leg and thigh, so as to expose the aponeurosis underneath. On the inner flap branches of veins will be observed passing to join the saphena major, which itself may be traced in the subcuta- neous cellular texture as far up as the dissection extends. After due notice has been taken of the aponeurosis on the anterior surface of the leg, an incision should be made through it, from the head of the tibia as far down as it happens to lie entire; this incision should be about midway between the tibia and fibula, and the membrane should be turned off from the muscles towards each bone. Above, it is firmly connected with the subjacent muscles; below, these parts are only attached by loose cellular texture. The point of the finger or han- dle of the knife should now be carried between the muscles, and the course of the anterior tibial artery traced. In the upper part of the leg it will be found between the tibialis anticus and extensor com- munis ; lower down, where the extensor longus pollicis intervenes, it will be found between this muscle and the common extensor, and just above the annular ligament it is crossed by the tendon of the extensor proprius. Two small veins accompany it, and, from the middle of the leg downwards, a branch of the fibular nerve will be found on its outer margin. The artery lies deep throughout its whole course, (particularly its upper third,) until it gets in front of the ankle and on the dorsum of the foot, where it is so superficial that its pulsations in the living body may be felt with the finger. The course of the vessel will be best seen if the tibialis anticus muscle be raised from its attachments above, when its proximity to the head of the fibula as it passes through the interosseal ligament, and its close attachment to this membrane throughout a great part of its course, can be made out. Whilst raising the above-named muscle the extensor communis and extensor longus pollicis had better also be raised from their position, and each should be cut across a little above the ankle. Before making any examination of the knee, where it is already in part exposed, the anterior surface of the thigh had better be fully dis- sected. l-’or this purpose an incision should be made from the ante- rior superior spinous process of the ilium in a line with Poupart’s ligament, as far as the tuberosity or spine of the os pubis, and another from the middle of this, down the anterior part of the thigh, to the transverse wound already made above the knee. The skin should then be dissected to each side, so as to expose the aponeurosis (fascia lata) on the anterior surface of the thigh. In doing so some small branches of nerves (from the lumbar plexus chiefly) will be found in the subcutaneous cellular texture on the outer and anterior