203 INCISIONS. EXCISIONS. has occasionally been the subject of operation. The hand here exhibited shows the little and ring finger in a state of permanent contraction. At first this affection shows itself by slight inability to extend one of the fingers (generally the little one), which is at last, in the progress of years, crooked up into the palm, and by this time the ring finger will also have assumed a nearly similar state, and possibly too the middle finger will be somewhat rigid. At first sight (as is well dis- played in the drawing) the flexor tendons seem to be the cause of this distortion; but the dissections of Dr. Goyrand and others have shown, that the cellular tissue between the skin and palmar aponeu- rosis usually gives rise to it. Dupuytren asserted that the fascia itself was the chief cause. In all instances where the contraction has been extreme, it has appeared to me that skin, cellular tissue, fascia, and even tendons, have been more or less in such a state of permanent rigidity as to prevent the extension of the fingers ; indeed, I have observed in the dissecting-room, that in cases of old standing, when all the textures were removed with the exception of the ligaments, the fingers could not even then be stretched out without some force, and that they immediately afterwards resumed their crooked position. In some cases I believe, that one or other of the textures above-named may be more in fault than the rest, and in others the lumbricales and interossei are in part the cause, as I have had reason to suppose from the examination of a finger which I once removed in consequence of this affection. It has been asserted, that those who are so employed as to cause much pressure on the palm (such as gardeners, carpenters, Ac.) are more subject to this condition than others: it may be so, but the figure above exhibited was from an individual who had been less occupied in this way than most people. I have treated such a case with subcutaneous division of the rigid textures, and it is a method I consider preferable to any other. A narrow knife should be pushed under the skin in front of the con- traction, and then carried through the most prominent band, whether this be merely the aponeurosis, condensed cellular tissue, or tendons, and thereafter the fingers should be gradually extended on a splint by means of bandages. The latter apparatus must be constructed by the ingenuity of the surgeon to fit the pecularities of the case, and I be- lieve that a clever adaptation of such means may go far to obviate and even remove various deformities in the hand and fingers resulting from the causes above referred to, as was proved many years ago by M. Dutertre, who, in 1814, published some most interesting cases of successful practice, by means of incisions and apparatus, in removing adhesions, contractions, and distortions, resulting from burns. The thumb seems occasionally to be affected in such a manner as to prevent a person using a pen, and from having been seen in parties who are chiefly occupied in this manner, the condition has received the elegant and appropriate denomination of “ Scriveners’ Spasm.” Although there is no lack of that profession in Edinburgh, I never