143 DISSECTIONS. on the inner margin of the tendon of the biceps, accompanied by two veins at least, one on each side, with perhaps a third in front; and the median nerve will be found about one-fourth of an inch nearer the in- ternal condyle. The radial artery will now be observed in a sort of triangular space, (if it has not already been examined in this situa- tion,) between the pronator teres and the supinator longus, a branch of the musculo-spiral nerve will be observed on the radial side of the vessel. The ulnar artery can next be traced, and the most satisfactory method of doing so will be, to cut through the superficial flexors, and the pronator teres, in a direction parallel with the vessel: the inter- osseal artery can also be best got at by this destructive dissection, and its anterior branch can be more readily displayed by turning aside the deep flexor of the fingers, which lies over it, in its course along the interosseal membrane. The recurrent arteries should likewise be attended to in conducting these proceedings. The dissection of the arm may next be carried a little higher up. A circular incision should be made through the skin a little above the insertion of the deltoid muscle, when, by cutting between this and the parts already displayed along the surface of the biceps, the integument may be turned outwards and inwards, or even completely removed from the circumference of the limb, so as to display the textures immedi- ately beneath. The fascia first presents itself below the subcutaneous cellular tissue, with the cephalic vein lying on its surface, on the outer margin of the biceps ; the basilic vein will in all probability have passed under the fascia at some point between this and the elbow. The membrane should now be taken off, and the following parts dis- played, viz., the inferior extremity of the deltoid muscle, a great por- tion of the triceps and biceps, with the ends of the muscles of the forearm, connected with the humerus. With a little careful dissection on the inner margin of the biceps the humeral artery will be dis- played, with a small vein on each side, and, perhaps, the basilic in front of it. The median nerve, about the middle of the arm, will lie nearly over the artery, and in close contact with it; it occasionally, though rarely, lies behind it: the ulnar will be considerably to the inner side, on the short head of the triceps; the musculo-spiral will scarcely be seen in this dissection, but its radial branch may be dis- played, between the biceps and supinator longus, by separating these muscles with the point of the finger or handle of the knife. In this situation the deep humeral (superior profunda) artery will be observed anastomosing with the radial recurrent; and on the inner side of the arm, the anastomotica magna will be apparent, passing inwards, and sending a branch to run with the ulnar nerve behind the internal con- dyle of the humerus. The internal cutaneous nerves may either be preserved or not. The finger may now be passed between the biceps and brachialis anticus muscle, when some of the branches of the ex- ternal cutaneous nerve will be seen passing between them. The former muscle may be cut across at its thickest part, and its lower extremity turned downwards; the artery and nerves may also be