THE INFERIOR EXTREMITY. 3-20 around the needle, as represented on the sketch below, drawing it sufficiently tight to obstruct the circulation and to cause some little pain; he should then repeat the operation at other parts as often as may be thought advisable, and having cut off the ends of the needles, the limb will appear thus: this drawing (fig. 172) Fig. 172. was taken from one of my patients ; and it will be remarked, that, besides a number of needles used according to the method now described, which is much the same as Velpeau’s, there are some made to cross each other according to the plan of Davat. The lat- ter consists in passing the second needle at right angles to the first: its point is thrust through the vein, above or below, then carried be- hind, and again made to transfix the vein in its passage to the surface ; thread is then twisted around each needle, at the will of the surgeon, and the circulation in the vessel completely obstructed. It will be perceived that in Velpeau’s plan the vein is merely compressed between the needle and thread, and that in Davat’s me- thod it is twice transfixed; in the latter instance, therefore, as the injury is greater, the amount of inflammation likely to follow will be in proportion ; and, as it is a principal object of the operation to in- duce the adhesive process in the site of the needles, the result may be more satisfactory, so long as the disease remains local. I have found Davat’s method produce the supposed requisite amount of in- flammation most rapidly ; but the other, if persisted in sufficiently long, has been equally successful in its results. In some cases the needles require to be removed on the second or third day, and in others they seem to produce so little irritation, that they may be allowed to remain for twelve days or more. As a general rule, they should be left until they have excited considerable swelling and slight ulceration; and in some instances when the former is not very conspicuous, they may be permitted to separate by ulceration through both vein and skin. I recommend that the process of inflammation should be more implicitly relied upon than that of coagulation, either below a needle or between a couple of them; indeed, in many ex-