223 AMPUTATION OF THE HAND. pocket penknife. In some of the recent drawings, the proportions of the bistoury, even when thus diminished, may be appreciated. The narrowness of the blade enables the operator to pass more rapidly across the joint, while its length permits him to shape the flaps with a freer sweep of his hand, than when he uses the broader, shorter, and less elegant scalpel. I cannot conclude these observations on amputations of the pha- langes and fingers, without adverting to the greater facility of per- forming them on the living subject than on the dead. In the latter, the skin and other soft parts are usually so thin, that it requires great care, and even skill, to reserve sufficient flaps; whereas, in the former, the subcutaneous cushion of fat almost invariably gives a more favourable opportunity of preserving a better covering to the end of the bone ; and in some cases, (as in the thickening attending severe forms of whitlow, in which the whole or a part of the finger may require removal,) the textures surrounding the joint operated on may be so infiltrated with lymph, that a sufficient and very excellent stump may be reserved; though it must be remembered that such a condition renders it perhaps more troublesome to get into the joint, when this locality happens to be selected or required. In caries of the bones of the carpus, or of the ends of those con- nected with them, amputation is in general the only resource; for although, as I have already stated, excision may occasionally be per- formed, such cases arc more rarely met with than those of a more serious character. Amputation of the hand may be performed at the articulation of the carpus with the fore-arm, or it may be done a little higher up where the bones will require division with the saw. The first of these two operations may be done in this way:—the hand being held in a horizontal position, with the back upwards, a scalpel, or, what is better, a large bistoury, such as is exhibited in the draw- ing (fig. T23), should be carried, in a semilunar course down to the bones from one side of the wrist to the other, about one inch or more below the articulation ; this flap should then be dissected up, and the posterior part of the joint opened : this and the future steps of the operation will be facilitated by bending the hand downwards, in the manner exhibited in the figure; the textures on each side of the wrist should next be cut through; and lastly, a flap, similar in size and shape to the one already made, should be preserved from the front. The lines of incision are marked out in the figure by the dots below the wrist. In severe injuries of the hand requiring amputation, where a suffi- ciency of soft parts can be preserved to cover the end of the radius, this operation may be performed in preference to that higher up : it possesses no particular advantage, however; the length of the stump is of no great consequence; the flaps, with the numerous tendons in them, may not heal readily; and unless it be that the operation may be performed on an emergency with the apparatus in an ordinary