33 SUTURES. Fiu. 37. The twisted suture (fig. 36) is often Fig. 3G. applied with great advantage, in instances when the parts require to be kept very steady, and in particular when some con- siderable stretching of the neighbouring textures is necessary; as, for example, in the operation for hare-lip. In some cases of this malformation, the interrupt- ed suture will serve to keep the cut sur- faces of the lip together ; but, in general, the drag upon the threads would be so great in the seat of each stitch, that ulceration would be almost cer- tain to come on; and, supposing the edges of the wound did not separate, much pain and trouble, to say nothing of the unseemly scars that would follow, would be the inevitable Jesuit. The twisted suture is, therefore, highly advisable in all such instances, and considering the extent of parts kept steady by the needle and thread, it seems impossible to retain surfaces in contact, on the living body, in a more simple and efficient manner. This kind of suture is made by passing a common sewing needle through the skin and other tex- tures, from one side of the wound to the other, and twisting a thread over each end of it, as repre- sented above, with such a degree of tightness as to keep the surfaces in contact. When two or three needles are used, it may be an additional security to carry the thread from one to the other, in the way represented in the sketch, and in all instances each needle must be passed sufficiently deep to prevent any part of the wound being open behind, as sometimes happens in the lip, where, be- sides, the labial arteries may still continue to bleed from the surface thus improperly left. After the thread has been applied, the point of each needle should then be cut off with a pair of common pliers, (fig. 37,) similar to those repre- sented here. Various kinds of in- struments have been recommended for this purpose, but I have found none so convenient, either as to efficiency or price, as those used by the workers in wire. n