157 DISLOCATIONS OP THE ELBOW. hand. The rupture of the annular ligament must, in these examples, precede and facilitate the displacement. From the frequency with which the former luxation is met with in the dissecting-rooms, I am inclined to think that the accident is often overlooked ; and I be- lieve it to be much more common than that backwards. My own experience, especially in the dead-room, leads me to suppose that Sir Astley Cooper’s estimate of the relative frequency of these two in- juries is the most correct, although it is worthy of notice, that, while he states the dislocation forwards as being the most common, Boyer asserts, with equal precision, that the head of the bone passes most frequently backwards. When the head of the bone rests in front of the external condyle, it seems to produce little inconvenience, saving a slight diminution in the motions of flexion and extension, more particularly the former. In all instances, however, where either of these injuries is detected at first, the head of. the bone should be drawn, by extending or bend- ing the elbow, or perhaps thrust at once, into its proper position; and, though it may be a little troublesome to retain it there, the best chance will be given by keeping the elbow-joint quiet, and in a bent position, by means of a bandage; and should great steadiness and some considerable pressure be required, then a splint, similar to that used for fractures in the lower part of the humerus, may be had re- course to. The bones of the forearm can scarcely be dislocated forwards on the humerus without a fracture of the olecranon process, and such an in- jury I believe to be very rare ; they are, however, not unfrequently displaced backwards, as represented in figure 66, and the nature of the accident will be readily made out by any one acquainted with the anatomy of the joint. In such a case the coronoid process will pro- bably be broken. The unnatural prominence, both in front and be- hind, as well as the fixed position, of the bones, will sufficiently in- dicate what is wrong. One of the most distinct cases of this luxation which has ever come under my notice, occurred in a boy about ten years of age, who, in