197 CHAPTER VI. EXCISION OF THE MAMMA. No operation of much surgical importance is ever required on those parts of the back which have already been dissected. On the anterior surface of the chest, the removal of the mamma is an operation which is frequently performed. The course of the external incisions for this will vary in different cases, according to the size and shape of the diseased mass ; in some examples I have made vertical incisions thus (fig. 99); hut in the generality of cases, they should he made nearly in the course of the fibres of the great Fig. 99. pectoral muscle. The operation may he performed in this way :■—The patient should he seated on a chair, or, what will be better, laid on a table, and the elbow on the affected side held in such a way as to throw the pec- toral muscle on the stretch. A lunated incision should then be made with a scalpel, or, as 1 prefer, a clasp bistoury, along the upper surface of the tumour, and an- other on the under ; if the disease is large, the skin above and below should next be dissected from it; if it is small, the wounds should be carried nearly as deep as the pec- toral muscle; and, in either case, the mass should he dissected out, by cutting in a horizontal direction from above downwards, or from below upwards. In this proceeding, as in others where the disease is supposed to be malignant, the surgeon, as already stated in my remarks on tumours, can scarcely err in taking away too much. Fortunately, the skin is usually so lax in this situation that there need be little fear of not being able to bring the edges of the wound into apposition, and the first incisions should therefore be made at such a distance from each other, as not only to include the affected part, but also a portion of the healthy textures, and the knife must subsequently be carried to such a depth as to secure the complete removal of the disease. The pec- toral muscle must be laid bare in many instances, and even portions of its substance removed, should the mass be connected with it. Four or six arteries will bleed actively, if they are not compressed by the assistant’s fingers as soon as cut. When the tumour is removed ligatures should be applied, and the wound dressed and treated ac- cording to the ordinary principles of surgery. If the edges can be brought accurately into contact, adhesion may be obtained at once ; if not, the wound must of course heal in a slower manner by suppura- tion and granulation. The following drawing (fig. 100) will serve as an outline of the position of the patient, that of the surgeon, who may be imagined to be on her right side, and the style of making the incisions. The