142 THE SUPERIOR EXTREMITY. olecranon process ; the posterior surface of the upper part of the ulna; tlie condyles of the humerus, and parts of the extensors and flexors on the forearm, covered by the fascia, will now be exposed. By cutting a few aponeurotic fibres, extending between the side of the olecranon and internal condyle, the ulnar nerve will be exposed, where it is about to pass between the upper attachments of the flexors. Even at this stage of the dissection it will be well to mark carefully the external appearances of this joint; and the hand should be made as familiar as possible with the prominences of bone ; the finger or thumb should be placed over the head of the radius, and the hand being placed alternately in a state of supination and pronation, the movements of that portion of the bone may be detected; the outline of both con- dyles, as well as the ridges of bone leading up from them, should be carefully examined; the projections of these parts, and also of the olecranon during flexion and extension, may even now be advan- tageously investigated; and a useful lesson will be gained by these proceedings, which may afterwards facilitate the diagnosis of injuries connected with, or in the vicinity of, this important articulation. The fore part of the elbow should now be examined. The incision through the skin over the biceps may be extended a couple of inches further up, or a transverse cut made to allow it to be laid to either side. The skin only should be raised in this first stage of the dissec- tion ; the fat and cellular membrane should be left till the superficial veins and nerves are examined. The cephalic vein should now be displayed on the outer margin of the biceps, and, by tracing it down- wards, the median cephalic, with the branches joining it from the fore- arm, may be readily made out; by tracing the median cephalic down- wards, the median basilic and its branches will be discovered. The latter should be traced down the forearm; the former upwards as far as the skin will permit. In making this dissection, the veins should be left as much in their natural position as possible ; and this can be best done by leaving (as the skin is taken off) the subcutaneous fat and cellular membrane in which they are imbedded, and merely laying the latter aside, in carrying the scalpel along the anterior surface of each vein. In effecting these incisions, care should be taken not to divide any twig of nerve, which may be observed crossing or running in front of the veins. After the parts have been examined in this condition, the fat and cellular tissue may then be removed to display the fascia. The veins must still be left, and care must be taken to preserve the cuta- neous nerves. An incision should next be made along the inner mar- gin of the biceps muscle, through the fascia, and the humeral artery should be displayed as low down as the connexion of this membrane with the tendon of that muscle. The superficial veins and nerves may now be removed, and the fascia taken off the parts in front of the joint, so as to admit of the humeral artery being traced to its division, and also an examination of the relative position of the different parts. The artery will be seen