COUNTER-IRRITANTS. 42 when it is of consequence to induce vesication rapidly, I imagine that these latter means, which produce their effects in the course of three or four hours, may be resorted to with great advantage. It should not be forgotten that if these irritants to the skin be often repeated, they may actually destroy the vitality of the surface ; thus small sloughs are by no means unusual where the tartar emetic ointment has been used, and extensive mortification of the skin has been known to follow the application of a blister. In children this is more likely to happen than in the adult; and I have known death to be the result of such an occurrence. Some seem to consider that the nitrate of silver, when nibbed freely over the cuticle, produces a stronger effect than the cantharides; but I do not imagine so, and therefore, when I wish to apply a more sure degree of counter-irritation than can be produced by the means above referred to, I frequently apply the caustic potash. This preparation is generally used thus : a slip of adhesive plaster is placed over the skin, having a hole in its centre, perhaps an inch long and half an inch broad, or of such other size and shape as may be deemed advisable: this hole being placed opposite or over the deep-seated pain, a bit of the stick of caustic, moistened with water, is rubbed on the surface until it assumes a grayish colour, and the opening seems filled with the caustic in a fluid state, when another piece of plaster, without any hole in it, is placed over that already present, and over all a poultice may be applied immediately. In a few hours the pain will be excessive, and a portion of the skin will be killed by the caustic, and converted into a slough, which will separate in the course of time, under the use of poultices, and other measures to be after- wards taken notice of. Occasionally, instead of rubbing on the stick of caustic, a portion of the size of a pea is placed on the skin, and allowed to deliquesce slowly, being retained there by a piece of plaster put over it. Instead of the potash some resort to actual fire as a counter- irritant, and the moxa is then put into requisition. The moxa may be made of any material which will burn readily; but perhaps the most convenient will be a little wadding cotton, or if that lie not at hand, a little tow or surgeon’s lint, which has been previously dipped in a weak solution of nitrate of potash, well dried, and then stuffed into a small pill-pox, with both its ends open. The box should then be held over the part about to be burnt, by means of a bit of wire twisted round it, or a kind of forceps made for the purpose, and, after ignition, the combustion should be kept up by means of a long blow- pipe, or a pair of bellows. The moxa is sometimes merely held over the skin so as to excite a glow, but more frequently the ignited mate- rial is held close upon the surface, so as to destroy its vitality at once. When the substance is nearly burnt out, the patient expe- riences acute pain, and the skin may be observed to shrivel and be- come brown under the intense heat. At the end of the process, a fold of lint, moistened with cold water, should be applied, and in the