INTRODUCTION OF THE CATHETER. 551 are said to clog up, the large one to permit its margins to injure the mucous membrane, — both of which objections have attracted more notice, perhaps, than they really deserve. The point of the instru- Fig. 229. ment should be slightly conical—the makers generally have it too abrupt—and the rings at the other end are intended for the purposes already alluded to at p. 548. Supposing catheterism to be required on the living body, the pro- ceeding may be accomplished thus :—The patient being laid on a low bed, couch, or on the floor, with his shoulders and knees slightly raised, the surgeon, standing on his left side, should seize the glans with the forefinger and thumb of the left hand, and squeeze it gently from before backwards, so as to cause the orifice of the urethra to gape ; then with his right hand he should introduce the point of the catheter (previously wanned and dipped in oil) and carry it onwards with a gentle pressure, taking care to stretch the penis sufficiently to prevent the moveable part of the urethra from remaining bent or being thrown into folds, until it has reached the angle of the pubes, where the urethra perforates the triangular ligament: the surgeon’s right hand may have been held nearly over the anterior part of the crest of the ilium ; now, however, the hold with the left hand being given up, the right should be moved into the mesial line ; in other words, the instrument should be brought parallel with the linea alba ; next it should be raised, and made to describe a portion of a circle, of which the catheter is as it were the radius, and then a force little more than the weight of the instrument will cause the point to glide into the bladder. In all instances, whether of a simple nature or attended with difficulty, it is a good general rule to cause the-point to move along the upper surface of the urethra ; i. e. that nearest the penis. When the introduction is effected, the straight part of the catheter, and the penis, are nearly parallel with the thighs. Just when the in- troduction is accomplished, the thumb of the right hand should be placed on the open extremity, and kept there until a proper utensil is placed under it to receive the urine. The same manoeuvre should be attended to when it is about to be withdrawn, and thus the fluid within the tube will be prevented from escaping until its end can be put over the pot. If the urethra and other parts are healthy, all these proceedings can