73 GRANULATION. CICATRIZATION. tions arc healthy, and how lie is to know that they have assumed this condition ? When the surface of a sore becomes of a bright red colour, when the surrounding swelling and other marked symptoms of inflammation subside, when the open space diminishes in size, and the circumference seems of a light blue colour, he may feel satisfied that the granulations are in this state. If the sore is now accurately exa- mined with the naked eye, or with a glass, the surface will be ob- served to be covered by numerous small irregularly rounded points, red with arterial vascularity, which are the granulations. It no retro- grade action takes place, such surfaces have invariably a tendency to heal, and will do so, provided the surgeon takes due care of the sore. The continued use of a poultice, or of warm-water dressing, may be sufficient, or, perhaps, of some simple ointment, such as the spermaceti, —these having the sole effect of keeping the surface somewhat moist, and thus preventing the matter which exudes from it becoming hard, and a source of irritation. Often, however, without any perceptible cause, the healing action does not seem to progress, and perhaps the granulations become somewhat pale, larger, and of a gelatinous flabby aspect; at this time a change of application may be of service, a slight stimulus will induce further cicatrization, and at last the desired end will be accomplished. Here, then, the surgeon, as it were, assists nature. The usual stimulants on these occasions are solutions of ace- tate of lead, of the sulphate of zinc or copper, or of the nitrate of sil- ver,—the latter, or the preparation of copper, being occasionally applied in their solid forms; ointments of the nitrate, or of the red oxide of mercury, of the oxide or carbonate of zinc ; and a variety of others in the form of red, black, and blue lotions or washes, which require no particular notice here. A lotion, when used on these occasions, is applied either cold or lukewarm, and if oiled silk is put over the moistened lint with which the sore is usually covered, it soon acquires the natural temperature of the part. Instead, however, of keeping the surface constantly covered in this manner, the granulations may be only bathed at each dressing, after the lapse of twelve or twenty hours. I may, perhaps, not be correct in designating all the means above alluded to as stimulants; but, at all events, an occasional change from one of these to some other, produces, in general, a favourable alteration on the sore. Such local applications resemble, in their effects, the action of certain purgatives, to which the bowels become at last, after continued use, so much accustomed, that the peculiar action of the medicine cannot be produced excepting by increased doses, when, probably, a smaller quantity of another remedy may have a powerful effect. So it always is with lotions or ointments, some of which may actually produce pain when first applied, but in the course of a few days may produce no effect at all; although if another application of moderate strength be used, a new action seems to take place in the sore, lienee, then, the advantage of changing dressings from time to time.