ANEURISM. 107 disease was aneurism, when it was ultimately proved that he was correct. Such instances, it must he admitted, are rare ; but fortunately, it is seldom that the symptoms are so very obscure, although on all occasions it behoves the surgeon to be cautious in his diagnosis. To mistake another disease for aneurism is assuredly a serious matter; but not so bad as the converse. Most surgeons of experience must have met with cases of aneurism at the root of the neck, wherein some ignorant non-professional parties have been advising the use of poul- tices, and ultimately of the lancet. I have myself known many in- stances of the kind, in which happily, however, the latter advice had not been complied with. Many of the usual pathological distinctions between different kinds of aneurism seem to me of little value practically. Thus, it matters not to the surgeon, whether a popliteal aneurism be true, false, or mixed. If the disease arises spontaneously, which it almost invaria- bly does here, I know of no difference in practice more applicable to one case than another, provided always that circumstances are fa- vourable otherwise for an operation. The most experienced can- not tell when an aneurismal sac is formed by dilatation of all the tunics, or merely condensed cellular texture; nor can he be sure in what instances there has first been a dilatation of all the tunics, and then a rupture of the two internal, and further distention of the ex- ternal. If, however, the aneurismal swelling be the immediate result of a wound, he may then be sure that, if it is circumscribed, it must be by the surrounding cellular texture, and not by any dilatation of tunics. Unless the malady be the result of a wound, or of ulceration, (a case of extreme rarity,) it is impossible to form a correct idea of the state of the tunics, excepting with reference to the age of the in- dividual ; and, therefore, however interesting these points may be to the pathologist who examines such tumours after their removal, or after death, I repeat that the supposed condition of the tunics of an artery in spontaneous aneurism, ought not in any way to influence the practice of the surgeon, in so far as selecting an operation for its cure is concerned. The distinctions between aneurism in one vessel,—common aneu- rism, as it may be called, and that dilatation of numerous small vessels which constitutes aneurism by anastomosis, are, however, sufficiently important to demand separate consideration, and the latter disease will be particularly referred to in the next chapter. Meantime, I wish it understood, that my present remarks are intended for that form of tumour which is connected with a single large artery. The operation which Anel performed,—tying the humeral artery for the cure of aneurism at the bend of the elbow, has often been (juoted to show that Hunter was not original in placing a ligature on the main artery leading to the disease, at a point nearer the heart; but the grand difference between the cases in which the operations were performed by these parties, does not seem to have been appre- ciated, or, at all events, clearly pointed out, by all who have discussed