472 HEAD AND NECK. with the interstices filled up with a sarcomatous substance—the latter being in one case of a semi-cartilaginous character, and in another, of a soft, pulpy, medullary nature. At first the gum will not be affected; as the growth increases, however, particularly if it is of a soft character, the teeth become loose, and fall out, the gums swell and ulcerate, and then an ill-conditioned sore is formed, from which there is a most offensive discharge. In the lower jaw one or other of these forms of disease is far from being uncommon. In the instance of epulis, however benign the growth may appear at first, the surgeon should not hesitate to pro- pose its removal; for, although examples will be occasionally met with where the unhealthy action seems to cease, the greater number go on from bad to worse, and a more serious proceeding is ultimately necessary than would have been required at first. Once 1 saw a tumour of this kind, about the size of a walnut, connected with the gum within the incisor teeth : the patient had nearly gone her full time with child, and I did not, therefore, advise its immediate removal, al- though this might have been very readily accomplished, as it was attached only by a small neck: in the course of a few weeks after, she rubbed it off with the point of the tongue, and was never further troubled. Cases of epulis seldom terminate so favourably, however, and some energetic means (more so, even, than the female tongue) must be resorted to. The pain and uncertainty of caustics are, in my opinion, sufficient objections to such remedies, unless when the disease is very limited: in general it will he best to remove it by the scis- sors or knife; and, should the textures around be in a suspicious condition, it will be wise to remove them too: the cutting forceps may be required if the alveoli are implicated, and here the shape indicated by figure 14 (p. 12) will be found of great utility. If the swelling is more in the body of the bone, it will not be so easily managed. Supposing it to be an osseous cyst, and that the sur- geon has ascertained this by touch, or with an exploring needle, which may be advantageously used in some of these cases,—possibly by making a free opening between the gum and the cheek, thus allowing the fluid to escape, then stuffing the cavity with lint, and treating it as we should an abscess, the walls may gradually contract and consolidate in a firm cicatrix. Perhaps in some such instances a seton passed across the cavity might be of equal avail. Such a case may, however, not go on so satisfactorily. A loose spongy mass may form in the place, or possibly it may be found that the bone around is in a condition in which a cure cannot reasonably be expected from such treatment. In other instances, the surgeon may see from an early period that a more formidable proceeding will be requisite. Now, the only course will probably be to remove a portion of the jaw throughout its whole thickness; but if this can be avoided, —if the base of the bone can be preserved, an attempt should be made to do so. I once succeeded in this object in the following manner: The patient, who had a malignant (melanotic) affection of the gums