CHAPTER XVI. GANGRENE. MORTIFICATION. The conditions of gangrene and mortification, whether these be the result of inflammation or otherwise, usually demand much care and attention on the part of the surgeon. Generally when mortification or sphacelus, for the terms seem synonymous, has actually occurred, the principal objects of treatment are to protect the remaining parts from further destruction, and to relieve the system of that portion which has become dead, as in this condition it can only be a source of irritation and continued disease. The part which has lost its vitality may be a portion of skin, mucous membrane, tendon, vessel, bone, or other individual texture, singly and only to a small extent, or several may be involved, or all the textures in a member may be in this condition at one and the same time. The term “ slough ” is in general use to denote the death of a portion of the soft parts ; that of “ exfoliation ” or “ sequestrum ” is commonly applied to a dead portion of bone. In gangrene, where the parts still possess a cer- tain degree of vitality, the general object of treatment is, if possible, to restore the healthy actions, and thus avert the occurrence of morti- fication, which is a result very likely to follow this state. In many instances of inflammation, the disease runs a regular course—from a mild form to one more severe, which then assumes the condition of gangrene, and ultimately that of mortification. In other instances it is difficult to discover any marks of severe inflammation, previous to either one or other of these events; and, indeed, in some kinds of mortification it is impossible to say that this affection has been present at any period, as in that which occurs in old age, or in certain examples of disease of the heart; even in some other cases, of deep interest to the surgeon,—the ligature of a main artery perhaps, it may be doubted, (perhaps even not so by some,) whether inflam- mation has ever been present in the affected part. In the treatment of gangrene, then, it must be of great consequence to ascertain the cause. Sometimes this may be done, at other times it cannot, although in general there will be some marked cause,—-a severe compound fracture, for example, or a violent attack of ery- sipelas, and such a one also as from the first may be set down as likely to bring on this condition. For the sake of illustration, I shall take an example of a fracture of the lower ends of the bones of the leg, perhaps compound, with great contusion and laceration ; in such a case the certain result is inflammation, and that too of a high degree, in consequence of the severity of the injury: here all the symptoms of this disease will be well marked ; pain, heat, redness, and swelling, will all be conspicuous. If gangrene threatens, the swelling will probably attract most attention; perhaps the pain and