164 THE SUPERIOR EXTREMITY. in making gradual extension. If this force be judiciously applied as thus directed, the head of the humerus will, in all likelihood, pass into the glenoid cavity with a kind of snap, which will be perceptible to both patient and surgeon. It may, however, be necessary to apply more force by means of additional assistants, and the operator may also require to be more rude in that which he himself exerts. In such examples, the warm bath, the abstraction of a quantity of blood from a vein in the arm, and the exhibition of plentiful doses of the solution of the tartrate of antimony, will be of great assistance. If success cannot be obtained in this way, a stronger force must be applied by means of pulleys (fig. 74), which should be used in the Fig. 74. following manner:—The patient should bo seated on a firm chair, or on the floor, his body enveloped as above described, and tae ends of the cloth attached to some point fixed in the floor or wall (p. 166) ; the hook of one end of the apparatus should then be fixed in a towel, which has previously been properly fastened round the patient s .arm above the elbow, and the other hook being attached to a fixed point, opposite to that above mentioned, the extension may be applied by a single assistant, who draws by the loose end of the cord. The sur- geon, placing himself on the outside of the arm, should keep it bent, and by the same manoeuvre as already directed, viz., rotating the hume- rus on its own axis, the desired object may be accomplished. In cases of difficulty, when the extending force is supposed to be sufficiently applied, it may be of advantage for the surgeon to put his knee into the armpit, and desire the assistant suddenly to quit the rope, when, by depressing the lower part of the arm, and using it as a lever, the knee being the fulcrum, the head of the bone may be forced into its ‘proper position. On the common principles of mechanics, this plan might be supposed to answer well; I must say, however, that al- though I have often seen it of service, I have observed it to fail, and have°much more frequently seen the end of the bone slip suddenly into its natural place during the application of the extending force. Instead of a sheet, tablecloth, or towel, the surgeon may be provided