452 THE HEAD AND NECK. ing at its upper end : here the fraenum must be divided, and the lip so far separated from the bone as to permit the slip to be put into the natural position of the columna. Next two or three hare-lip pins must be used to bring the edges of the lip together, so as to exclude this mesial portion: then the extreme point of this (the red margin) should be cut off, and a suitable surface prepared for it with the knife, on the inside of the apex of the flap, where a small prominence has purposely been left, as indicated by the line on the figure 205 : the two should then be kept together by a twisted suture, and so the columna is formed. The wounds must be treated in the ordinary way, a small portion of lint being kept in the aperture of each nostril. Various modifications of these proceedings must be left to the dis- cretion of the surgeon. If a small portion only of the original nose is deficient, the edges may be pared for the reception of the flap instead of a groove being formed in the cheek as above described. In some instances, when the original nose is sunk, the aperture into the nostril is not sufficiently large ; a portion should therefore be cut out at any convenient period, and perhaps this will be most fitting when the aper- tures of the nostrils are under treatment, for here the knife may be re- quired to scoop out or enlarge each. At all times, as much of the old nose should be preserved as possible, as it forms the best foundation for the superstructure. The operation here described, in so far as regards the formation of the flap from the forehead, is similar to that done amongst the native Indians, and differs from that of the celebrated Italian professor, Taliacotius, chiefly in this respect,—for he took the flap from the skin of the arm. The latter proceeding I need not describe, as, in so far as I know, it is never performed in the present day. The for- mation of the columna is in the manner recommended by Dieffen- bach, who, however, twists the part so that the cuticular surface may still be outermost. But this seems to be a matter of little con- sequence : the mucous membrane 6oon becomes callous, and to lessen the risk of strangulation of the slip, I give a preference to the mode above detailed, which has been recommended by Mr. Liston. The figure on p. 450 is a likeness of one of my own patients on whom a flap was formed in the manner described. The sunken state of the nose was occasioned by ulceration within, resulting apparently from scrofula. All diseased action had ceased ere I interfered; but some months afterwards, when there was promise of an excellent new organ, the disease appeared again, and so far marred the effect. My friend, Dr. Handyside, of Edinburgh, whose patient she be- came after I left that city, informs me, that she ultimately went from under his care with the ulceration entirely healed. “ The new organ remained healthy and well, though somewhat insulated (towards the aim) from the surface to which it had previously ad- hered.” Had I waited a few months longer in this instance, and if the disease had re-appeared I should have declined operating, for it need scarcely be stated, that no such proceedings should be attempted