THE CHEST, ABDOMEN’, AND PELVIS. .538 elephantiasis) require the use of the knife, although such swellings are of rare occurrence in the natives of Great Britain. The largest case of the kind successfully treated in this country (weighing 44 pounds) occurred to Mr. Liston, in the early years of his practice in Edin- burgh. When such tumours are only a few pounds in weight, un- doubtedly the incisions should be made in such a way as to preserve both testicles and penis, for in such instances these are invariably in a sound condition; but when the growths are large—say, forty, sixty, or one hundred pounds in weight, as the immediate safety of the patient is implicated, I imagine that the surgeon does wrong in attempting to save them by any protracted dissections. When once the knife is applied in such examples, the operation should be done not so much with a view of clearing and preserving these organs, as that of saving the patient from the dangers of exhaustion, which, in my opinion, is likely to be of more serious import than any shock re- sulting from the speedy accomplishment of the proceedings. Possibly had Mr. Key, in his bold and admirably executed operation on II oo Loo, removed the enormous mass (56 pounds) with less regard for the genitals, the fatal shock might not have occurred; and, contrast- ing the proceeding (which occupied one hour and 44 minutes) with the more rapid one by Mr. Liston, who, perceiving the emergency, swept all away at once in the course of a few minutes, it appears to me not unreasonable to suppose, that if the patient had been kept a shorter period on the operating table, the result might have been different. No set rules can be given for the performance of such operations different from those which guide the surgeon in the removal of tumours on other parts, neither does it appear necessary here to refer parti- cularly to those dissections which are occasionally required for the separation of those warty excrescences or cancerous ulcers, which con- stitute the disease termed Chimney-sweeper’s Cancer. The general rules applicable in all instances of malignant diseases are peculiarly so in these cases, for unless the affection be removed at an early period, and also with free incisions in the surrounding healthy textures, there will be little benefit in resorting to an operation at all. The testicle itself is the seat of various kinds of swellings. That particular form of tumour termed hernia humoralis requires some separate notice. Here the enlargement is entirely the result of in- flammation of the organ, and should in general, in my opinion, be treated in accordance with the usual surgical means of subduing severe and acute local inflammation. Rest, leeches, anodyne fomenta- tions, laxatives, and low diet, are such as I should recommend; and here, too, the young practitioner should never lose sight of the value of good position. If he is careless in this respect the enlarged organ by its increased weight drops between the thighs, and the swelling is thus apt to become more troublesome, as has already been explained at p. .57 in the chapter on effusion. A suspender is of great value in such cases; indeed, it is well to recommend one in any instance