DISSECTIONS. 139 above described. The extensor tendons will now be observed ; still, however, bound down by transverse fibrous bands. No artery of large size will be displayed in this dissection, unless it be the radial, passing through the space between the extensors of the thumb. The hand may now be turned, and an incision made across the fore part of the wrist, joining at each extremity that already made on the back. The knife must next be drawn from the middle of this one along the palm of the hand, to join that previously made for the display of the finger, and the skin, which is here thin but dense, is next to be carried to each margin of the hand, taking care to cut it across at the roots of the fingers, so as to meet the dissection already effected. A short incision had better be made, from that across the wrist to the root of the thumb, so as to allow its ball to be uncovered with faci- lity ; and thus by raising the skin from the latter part, the hand will be divested of integument. The palmar aponeurosis will now be brought into view. This structure, which is scarcely discernible over the ball of the thumb and the fleshy mass on the ulnar side of the hand, will be seen connected with the front of the annular ligament, and spreading out in the hollow of the palm, until it is lost, partly in the cellular texture at the fore and lateral aspect of the root of each finger, and partly in the tendinous covering of the side and pos- terior surface of the first phalanx. No structure of surgical importance lies between the skin and this membrane, and the dissection may be, therefore, immediately carried deeper; this may be done by cutting the fascia across at its nar- rowest part, viz., at the annular ligament, and carrying it towards the roots of the fingers, where it may be left attached by its numerous slender connexions. It will now be found to have been in close con- tact with the superficial palmar arch, which will have been brought partially into view. To render the latter more distinct, the ulnar artery had better be cleared as it passes over the annular ligament; a few transverse fibres run across it in this situation, and, lower down, particularly towards the deeper parts of the palm, or nearest to the tendons, the arch and its branches will be found surrounded by loose cellular and adipose tissue. In displaying these vessels, care must be taken to preserve the branches of the ulnar and median nerves, as well as the flexor tendons. A little dissection may now be made on the radial margin of the wrist and hand, so as to clear the radial artery where it passes under the extensors of the thumb, to get between the metacarpal bones of the thumb and forefinger; and, by cutting through part of the abduc- tor indicis muscle, the branches of this vessel, which chiefly supply the thumb and forefinger, and that which joins the deep palmar branch of the ulnar, may be made apparent. In this stage of the dissection the parts will appear thus: the ulnar artery passing across the palm, forming the superficial palmar arch, giving off the branches, which, singly and subdivided, supply each mar- gin of the fingers, with the exception of the radial side of the index,