384 THE HEAD AND NECK. the wound may prevent a fair view of the parts, and for these reasons, then, when the needle is passed under the artery, it will be advisable to try the effects of compression as above referred to, more especially when it is remembered that on the living body a nerve has been mis- taken for the vessel, and actually surrounded by the thread. In this instance the error was discovered immediately, and rectified at once. The large nerves are generally so placed behind and above the artery that they are certainly not much in the way, yet it is well to bear the above fact in mind. In recommending the artery to be “ slightly elevated” with the needle or the thread, as has been done in a preceding page, I hope it will be understood that this gives no sanction to un- necessary rudeness, for the less the surgeon moves the vessel in this way, the more will he comply with the rules of good surgery. It has been stated that the point of the needle should be introduced from before backwards, but some good authorities have recommended the opposite course. The former has been thought best for avoiding the vein, the latter has been found convenient in instances where the elevation of the clavicle has prevented the requisite depression of the handle of the needle. For my own part I should follow whichever course I found least troublesome, taking care, however, to keep the point as close upon the artery as possible. When Mr. Kamsden first performed the operation, this was found to be the most difficult part of the whole proceeding. After using various forms of needles, the thread was at last carried under the artery by means of a common silver probe, bent at one end. Many ingenious contrivances have since been recommended (such as Weiss’s, Mott’s, Gibson’s, L’Estrange’s, &c.), but I doubt if any one of them be superior to a needle such as is represented at p. 29. In all it is absolutely necessary that the point should be carried under the vessel, so that it may be drawn or pushed up on the side opposite to that where the shank is placed, as this latter part, with the handle, cannot be depressed, as in operations on most other arteries, so as to cause the point to rise above the level of the vessel. I imagine, however, that if the point can be seen under and at one side of the vessel, there can be no further difficulty; for if the eye is close to the extremity (as it should be), as soon as it appears the thread may be seized with a hook or forceps, and drawn up, without the necessity for any depression of the handle whatever, which, as soon as the thread is secure in the surgeon’s hand, can be withdrawn in the course through which it has already been passed. It is certain that in many (I shou’d say in most) instances the common needle has been found to answer perfectly, but it is equally so that most expert operators have had great trouble in this part of the proceedings, and although I myself should first make use of such an instrument, I would assuredly be pr ivided with various sorts in case of any difficulty. In 1831, I successfully applied a ligature to this vessel, with a needle of this shape , the concavity