293 FRACTURES OF THE FEMUR. frequent occurrence, are, at all events, more worthy of the surgeon’s consideration, from the circumstance that they usually happen at that period of life when active exertion is of more subsequent consequence than in the individual of advanced years, in whom the neck of the bone is so apt to give way, but whose physical capabilities have already been well nigh exhausted. Fracture in any part of the femur below the trochanters is of most common occurrence during those periods of life when man may be said most to require the full use of his limbs, and it therefore becomes of vast importance to effect a cure with the fragments so adjusted, that there may be the smallest possible extent of either deformity or loss of power. The fractured thigh is almost invariably shorter than its fel- low : in a simple transverse fissure immediately above the condyles, the surfaces are so extensive that their complete separation is of rare occurrence ; but in oblique fracture, and in any instance in other parts of the bone, the displacement is such that the lower fragment is drawn upwards, and shortening is conspicuous. From the multipli- city of forces which may occasion fracture, the rough ends of the fragments may pass in any direction : if the displacement be not great, the limb may be merely bent at an obtuse angle at the point of divi- sion, with the part below slightly twisted outwards or inwards; but, perhaps, the most frequent kind of displacement is that where the end of the lower fragment passes behind the upper, when the lat- ter is usually said to ride over the former. Perhaps the particular cause of fracture, the weight of the limb, (as the person is being car- ried after the accident,) and muscular action, may all conduce to this form of displacement. I believe the latter influence is most at work, for, in addition to the effects of the psoas magnus and iliacus internus in raising the upper fragment, the long muscles extending between the pelvis, and the lower end of the femur and upper part of the leg, along the back of the thigh, are most likely to act with great force on the lower fragment in drawing it upwards and backwards,—a force against which the powerful muscles in front, from their less advanta- geous position, offer but a feeble resistance. The lower fragment does, however, sometimes pass in front of the upper ; it may, indeed, go in any direction, but it is most frequently as I have described it. If there is displacement, in whatever direction it may be, and what- ever may be the amount of distortion, one of the first and grand objects of treatment should be to bring the fragments as nearly into their natural position as circumstances will permit: if this is done, and due care taken to keep them thus, the rest of the sanative mea- sures may be left to nature. Numerous methods have been followed by different practitioners in the treatment of these fractures. It is seldom that there is any difficulty in extending the limb sufficiently, provided this be done soon after the injury has happened, before in- flammation has begun, and the muscles and other textures have be- come in some degree habituated to their new and unnatural conditions. Sometimes, however, and more particularly in the upper third of the