255 DISLOCATIONS OF THE ASTRAGAL US. all fibres and ligaments, as if the dissector had carefully removed them with a knife. From the manner in which the bone is protected by the malleoli, it is barely possible that displacement outwards or inwards can occur, and it is very unusual to see it backwards. Mr. Benjamin Phillips has related two cases of the latter kind in the fourteenth volume of The Medical Gazette, and I have myself met with one instance. At first it was treated as a severe contusion of the ankle, and it was only after the swelling had partially subsided, and at a period when it was too late to make any attempt, with propriety, to replace the bone, that this feature in the case was discovered. An effort was subsequently made by a charlatan to put matters right by force, but it nearly cost the patient his foot. The bone projected so far back as to touch the tendo Achillis ; yet although he was exceedingly lame for many months after the accident, I observed a gradual im- provement, and have since heard that he has, in a great degree, recovered the use of the foot and ankle. There is a cast of this foot in my part of the collection at King’s College: at a first glance it is difficult to perceive that anything is wrong ; but, on a more careful inspection, the fulness in front of the tendo Achillis becomes apparent. Dislocation of the astragalus, in any direction and under any cir- cumstances, must be looked upon as a very serious injury ; for al- though many instances have been seen where life and limb have been preserved, even under great disadvantages, it must be admitted that such satisfactory results have not always followed the praiseworthy attempts of the surgeon to avoid amputation. Under ordinary circumstances, and if the case is seen soon after the accident, an attempt should be made to replace the bone, by pushing it with the thumbs into its natural position, whilst extending force is i applied by pulling the foot downwards in the long axis of the leg; and should the effort succeed, the. treatment may afterwards be con- ducted as if the case had been one of severe sprain: leeches, rest, warm or cold applications, anodyne, and stimulating liniments, with bandages towards the latter part of the attendance, may one and all be requisite, and probably the bandage with starch (to be afterwards more particularly alluded to) may be highly serviceable. When the integuments are extensively wounded, and much stretch- ed, as happens when the bone is thrown forwards, it may be a question whether an attempt should be made to push it into its na- tural position, or that it should be entirely removed. I should be inclined, under such circumstances, to adopt the latter practice, more particularly if the bone seemed but loosely connected to the neigh- bouring parts; indeed, it is scarcely possible to imagine it being other- wise ; and were it replaced, it might act more as a foreign substance than in fulfilling the object to be kept in view, viz., that of bringing the ankle as much into its natural condition as the nature of the ac- cident will admit of. The removal of the bone in the state of the