294 THK INFERIOR EXTREMITY. thigh, when there has been extensive effusion of blood, it is difficult to draw the limb to a proper length, until part of the fluid has been absorbed and the swelling has somewhat subsided. I have seen some instances where eight or ten days have elapsed before sufficient exten- sion could be made, and remember one example of fracture below the trochanters, where probably some of the perforating arteries had been tom through, and where the tension of the skin was so great from the amount of effusion, that no attempt could reasonably be made to bring the limb to its proper length until after such a lapse of time as rendered any interference useless. Coaptation is generally more difficult and more troublesome to accomplish than mere extension: after reduction has been effected there is a constant tendency to distortion, and it is almost certain to occur unless the surgeon adopt efficient means to prevent it, and have a careful watch over the appearance and attitude of the limb for the first ten or fifteen days of treatment. The knee may be kept either bent or straight, and if the first po- sition is preferred, the treatment may be conducted either according to the method so strenuously advocated by Mr. Pott, or that subse- quently recommended by Sir Charles Bell. In the former, to use Mr. Pott’s own words, “ the position of the os femoris should be on its out- side, resting on the great trochanter; the patient’s whole body should be inclined to the same side; the knee should be in a middle state, between perfect flexion and extension, or half bent; the leg and foot lying on the outside also should be well supported by smooth pillows, and should be higher in their level than the thigh ; one very broad splint of deal, hollowed out, and well covered with wool, rag, or tow, should be placed under the thigh, from above the trochanter, quite below the knee; and another, somewhat shorter, should extend from the groin below the knee on the inside; the bandage should be of the eighteen-tailed kind ; and when the bone has been set, and the thigh well placed on the pillow, it should not without necessity (which necessity in this method will seldom occur) be ever moved from it again until the fracture is united.” Sir Charles Bell’s method con- sisted of the double inclined plane, and the apparatus which he re- commended has since been extensively used, more particularly under the improved shapes which I have referred to in treating of fractures of the leg. In my early years of attendance at the Edinburgh Infirmary, the practice of Pott was occasionally followed, but latterly it was seldom resorted to, and, excepting in fractures very low down in the femur, I may say the same for that of Bell. By either plan most excellent cures may be effected : but in Pott’s there is considerable risk of shortening, and of the lower part of the limb being everted; whilst in Bell’s, though the toes may be kept in their natural line, the limb may also be shortened, owing to the difficulty of restraining the move- ments of the upper fragment during the motions of the patient’s body. I f the fracture is near the trochanters, it is almost impossible to fix the upper fragment against the thigh-plate, and at the same time keep up