THE INFERIOR EXTREMITY. 292 of a young gentleman, eighteen years of age, who, in saving himself from slipping backwards on the pavement, felt a sudden snap at the knee, and was immediately after unable to extend the leg excepting with great pain and a severe effort. On examination about an hour after the accident, I could distinctly feel a space about an inch and a half above the patella, where the separation existed. A splint of wood was adapted to the back of the limb to keep the knee extended, and care was taken in applying a roller to place a pad along the fore part of the thigh, so as to keep the end of the rectus as low down as possible. The recovery was more rapid than after fracture of the patella, and the limb ultimately became as strong as its fellow. In such a case, or in the instances where the ligament of the patella is injured, the practice should resemble that which is required in fracture of the patella,—the extended position and rest being the main features. The femur may be broken in ahnost any part of its extent; and, as in other long bones, the fissure may be transverse, ob- lique, or nearly perpendicular ; the fracture may be simple, compound, or complicated, and the bone may be divided into two, or there may be many fragments. Perhaps the most common seat of fracture is about the middle, as here represented (fig. 161), and in this situation the fissure is usually transverse. The bone at this part is so covered on all sides, that compound frac- ture occurs rarely in the middle of the thigh : the femur from which this sketch is taken was thus broken, however; but, al- though compound fracture is occasionally seen still higher up, it most generally hap- pens towards the lower extremity of the bone ; but, upon the whole, the accident is rarely met with, compared with the fre- quency of the simpler form, occurring in any part of its shaft, from one end to the other. If towards the lower extremity, the con- dyles may be so separated from the shaft, by oblique or perpendicular fissures, as to involve the knee-joint, and thus render the injury complicated ; and if at the upper end, the head may be so divided from the neck and shaft that ossific union can scarcely oc- cur, and the limb can therefore never again acquire anything like its original strength : —but before alluding particularly to frac- tures in the neck of the bone, I shall treat of those lower down, which, if not of more /