27 FOR SUPPRESSING HEMORRHAGE. proper; but I decidedly recommend a substance of such a bulk that the person who uses it can, in the bustle of an operation, readily feel that there is something between his fingers. Fine dentist’s silk I object to, on the latter account, and also because it may possibly cut the textures through altogether, instead of merely making a groove as the other does, sufficient to keep it in its place, until it is separated by nature. Mr. Lawrence recommended fine silk, with the object of cutting away both ends of the ligature, and leaving the smallest pos- sible size of foreign substance (the noose and knot) in the wound ; but although the objections stated above may be avoided, by great care and by not pulling too hard, I cannot see any particular ad- vantage in the plan, even though the part left may not weigh more than ^ or J- part of a grain. I must admit that, in my own practice, in removing both ends (for I have frequently done so), and more particularly in witnessing the practice of my former col- league, Mr. Lizars, who invariably removed both ends in all kinds of wounds, I have not in every instance seen bad results follow ; on the contrary, I have seen wounds heal as kindly as could pos- sibly be wished ; but 1 nevertheless believe, that they would have healed equally well had the ends been left on. Sometimes the foreign substances probably remain in the wound, but much more frequently they are carried away in the discharge, either during the first healing of the wound, or by a subsequent process of suppuration. It may happen that a wound will at first close over a thread left in this condition; but, in the Fkj. 28. course of a few weeks or months, inflammation and swelling come on, then suppuration, and when the abscess is opened, or bursts of its own accord, the noose will make its appear- ance. This result forms, in my opinion, the principal objection to the practice ; if, for ex- ample, a patient who has undergone an opera- tion for a scirrhus mamma, be dismissed after the lapse of three weeks or a month, with the wound healed, and some time after, a painful swelling and suppuration occur in the cica- trix, she naturally supposes that there is a return of the original malady, and will not be convinced to the contrary until the abscess has closed ; and as it may even then be uncertain if all the knots are away, (for they cannot al- ways be seen, or may be overlooked in the discharges,) she may, during the lapse of a con- siderable period, still dread that she will again suffer in the same manner. Instead of the ordinary forceps, an instru- ment with a slide or catch upon it (fig. 28), will occasionally be of service, when no com-