495 PARACENTESIS THORACIS. like a valve, and thus there is less chance of air getting into the cavity than if the wound were made straight into the chest. If the operation is performed higher up than is here recommended, some of the fibres of serratus magnus will come in the way, but no harm can accrue from their division. It will be remarked that, by keeping on the upper margin of the bone immediately below, whilst cutting between the ribs, there is no danger of interfering with the intercostal artery. If the operation is done for empyema, the proceedings may be nearly of the same character. The same situation may be selected, or any other more convenient spot. Sometimes in such cases the matter causes more marked protrusion between certain ribs than elsewhere, and such a point may be selected. I once operated in a case of the kind between the first and second rib; but here the disease was more like abscess in the upper region of the chest, for, in consequence of adhe- sions, the matter was limited to this part. In this instance I passed a bistoury straight into the sac, having pulled the skin slightly upwards, and a similar mode will answer either for this affection or hydro- thorax, instead of the process of dissection which has been described above. In all instances it is very desirable to perform these operations with- out permitting air to enter the chest. In hydrothorax this may be accomplished, but in empyema it will be found exceedingly difficult. In the former example the lung will rise as the fluid escapes, but in the latter this is very doubtful, for often the surface of the pleura pul- monalis is so coated with an adventitious layer of organized lymph as to prevent the lung rising at once, if, indeed, it ever will do so. In such a case it has been proposed to use a syringe to exhaust the matter, and at the same time, by creating a vacuum to give the best possible chance for the lung to rise. Should this happen, it will pro- bably not be to the full extent, and, in the event of the patient surviv- ing, the chest will ever after be smaller on that side than on the other. Whatever care may be taken to prevent the ingress of air, the occur- rence is extremely likely to happen. The bleeding during the performance of any of these operations will be very trifling. The only vessel of magnitude in such parts being the intercostal, which may be avoided by the instructions given. In one instance in the dissecting rooms I found an artery about the size of an intercostal, passing from the subclavian in a direction downwards, between the ribs and pleura, exactly in the line of the incisions de- scribed. Portions of the sternum and ribs have been removed in consequence of caries, but no particular rules are here required for such proceedings. In caries or necrosis of the sternum a crucial incision might pro- bably enable the surgeon to apply the gouge with the desired effect. Large portions of this bone may be thus removed : but there is scarcely any necessity for doing more than allude to the important parts in the vicinity—the pericardium behind, the pleura and internal mammary artery at the sides, and the large vessels at the upper part of the an-