397 LIGATURE OF ARTERIES. condition has often been present on these occasions. It appears, also, from certain experiments on the lower animals by M. Robert (de Lamballe), that the lungs become seriously affected after ligature of their carotids ; and from what I have myself seen, I should strongly recommend the free use of the lancet in all such operations as those which have lately been under consideration. In instances of aneurism at the root of the neck, whether in the innominata, the origin of the carotid, or of the subclavian, the operation of Brasdor may be put into practice, or the modification of it recom- mended by Mr. Wardrop. If, for example, the disease were supposed to be in the innominata, Mr. Wardrop would place a ligature on the carotid or on the subclavian, one being obstructed, the other left to nature, and he would be guided by circumstances, whether at any future period he would perform a similar operation on the other vessel. Brasdor's operation could be put into practice only on the carotid, for here in an aneurism at its root the circulation might be completely arrested. On the other branch of the innominata, however, if the aneurism were supposed to be at its root, a ligature placed outside of the scaleni could only have the effect of partially obstructing or alter- ing the course of the circulation ; and this, therefore, would be War- drop’s operation, the difference between the two modes being that, in the one (Wardrop’s) the entire column of blood is not intended to be checked, whilst this in a manner constitutes the chief feature of the other (Brasdor’s). My limits will not permit me to say more on such operations, and I shall therefore only state that I should feel inclined, in some of those cases where the patient’s prospects were other- wise desperate, to offer a chance of cure by ligature on the distal side of the disease. The first instance in which Mr. Wardrop himself operated, that treated by Mr. Evans, of Belper, and various cases occurring in the practice of Dr. Mott, my friend Mr. Fcarn, of Derby, and other practitioners of note, all hold out some gleam of hope in such unfortunate cases. In the summer of 1841 I placed a ligature on the carotid, for aneurism of the innominata, but the patient did not survive sufficiently long to enable me to form a decided opinion as to the probable result of the proceeding. The case was published in the November number (1841) of the Edinburgh Monthly Medical Journal, and I may refer the reader to Mr. Wardrop’s treatise on aneurism, published in 1828, in which the principles of this operation are de- tailed, and, in addition, to the article Aneurism, by the same author, in The Cyclopaedia of Practical Surgery. I have not as yet alluded to any important irregularities in these great arteries. The subclavian has occasionally been seen in front of the anterior scalenus muscle. I have myself met with only one example of the kind in the dissecting-rooms. Mr. Lizars, in operating outside of that muscle, discovered the vessel lying in front ; the case was published in the Lancet of Oth August, 1834. Mr. Liston, in placing a ligature on the subclavian at its origin, had considerable difficulty in exposing the vessel, and at the time fancied, from its depth, that it might arise from the left side of the