INFLAMMATION. 30 thirst, headache, dryness of the skin and mucous membranes, brown and dry tongue, huffy blood (if that fluid be drawn), high-coloured and scanty urine, will all give additional and certain indications of the disease. Some of these, even, are not entirely to be depended on, seeing that they may be present without the existence of inflamma- tion ; whilst, again, that disease may be in full vigour, and yet the symptoms may be such that the most experienced may be deceived. Exceptions to these observations must be familiar to every one who has seen even a little practice, and it must be acknowledged that igno- rance or carelessness will occasionally produce most gross mistakes. One exception I think of sufficient importance to demand notice here, viz., the smallness of the pulse in inflammation of the perito- neum. It is a frequent subject of remark that the unwary are misled by this anomaly; but the experienced practitioner well knows that, after the reduction of a hernia, whether by the taxis or a cutting operation, it is generally a favourable symptom when the pulse be- comes fuller, even although it should beat somewhat quicker. If there be pain in a part, and if it depends on inflammation, it is not necessary that the surgeon should perceive either redness or swelling, to enable him to identify the disease: for, in deep-seated parts these latter symptoms are seldom, if ever, to be observed, although the accomplished practitioner may not have a doubt that the disease is in full activity. Thus, in the chest these symptoms cannot be appre- ciated by the eye or touch ; yet, by reference to the pulse and other symptoms, and an appeal to auscultation and percussion, the nature of the affection, if it is inflammation, can scarcely be overlooked. Again, in inflammation of the cartilages, of the hip or shoulder joints, nei- ther redness nor swelling can be perceived ; yet the pain which is experienced when the cartilages are rubbed against each other, is sufficient, with the other symptoms, to indicate the presence of the disease. Tlte consequences of inflammation are often more conspicuous than the disease itself; as for example, suppuration, ulceration, granulation, and gangrene, in all of which the symptoms of inflammation are thrown into the shade, as it were, by the remarkable features peculiar to each, and therefore the treatment of the disease, in all its phases, can only be rightly understood by one who is well acquainted with the nature of these conditions. As it is, in general, a most desir- able object, however, to prevent any of these consequences occurring, the chief aim at the commencement of the treatment is to endea- vour to do so, and to bring about what is usually called the resolution of the disease,—that is to say, to cause the subsidence of all the symp- toms, and to leave the part as if no disease had ever been present. Although this is a result which cannot always be expected, it never- theless often happens, and whenever it does, it is the most satisfactory that can possibly occur. If the means do not prove sufficient for this end, they may possibly mitigate some of the after consequences ; they can seldom do harm and, unless there be express indications to the