ABSCESS. 62 than to any peculiar action of the poultice, which, as I have already stated, is considered one of the most certain means of producing suppuration. It is, I imagine, too much the custom to allow matter to he dis- charged naturally. In most parts of the body, if the suppuration be deep-seated, the matter may extend widely, and do much harm by the separation of textures, ere it can reach the surface; and even when it does so, and is discharged through some small opening, it rarely happens that the interior of the abscess closes entirely ;—a discharge continues long afterwards, and ultimately the interference of the surgeon is required. From this it may be seen that I am averse to leaving such cases entirely to nature ; occasionally the surgeon cannot do otherwise, and sometimes, even with all his care, matter will burst forth when he does not expect it. If an abscess in the perineum, for example, be left for a day or two, under the supposition that the delay will be advantageous, even though it may be intended to use the knife to open it, the practitioner is often amazed to find that the matter has, in the lapse of four-and-twenty hours, made an exit through the skin or mucous membrane in the vicinity of the anus,—yet it seldom happens in such instances, that the knife is not ultimately required. The period for giving exit to matter will vary according to circum- stances. Thus, if it be extensively diffused, as in phlegmonous ery- sipelas, where it may separate the skin from the textures underneath to a most injurious degree, the sooner a free vent to the matter is given, so much the better ; and here, too, if the knife be used, there seems an additional advantage, as has been pointed out by Mr. Law- rence, in the loss of blood occasioned by the division of engorged vessels: again, if the pressure of matter seems to produce great pain, or if its continued presence is likely in any way to occasion ad- ditional harm, such as by bursting into any cavity, laying bare a portion of bone, or of a large vessel, or if from being under an apo- neurosis, there is greater chance of its being diffused beneath that membrane than making its way to the surface, then it should be per- mitted to escape through an incision made at an early period. How- ever, excepting under these or other equally pressing circumstances, I must declare myself an advocate for delay in opening abscesses. Be- sides the hope, though it may be but slender, of absorption occurring, I am of opinion that in ordinary abscess, a bubo, for instance, if an opening is not made until the matter has approached near to the sur- face, the subsequent progress of the case is much more rapid and satis- factory, provided that a proper opening be made. I have seen a good deal of the practice of making early openings, and have invariably ob- served that more pain was thereby induced, and, 1 have often fancied, an additional amount of suppuration, whilst the after treatment has been remarkably tedious. I have already, in a preceding page, stated my impression, that in some instances the occurrence of suppuration actually produces an amelioration of many of the distressing accompa-