INCISIONS. EXCISIONS. 341 next be opened on its upper aspect, when by twisting the thigh across its fellow, and rotating it outwards at the same time, the head of the bone will start from its socket: if the round ligament remains entire, which it probably will unless considerable force is used, it can be touched with the knife, and the articular surface of the femur will now be thoroughly exposed. The saw may next be applied to the neck of the bone, and the head being separated, the chief steps of the operation will be completed. In gun-shot fracture, the lever force of the shaft of the bone will be wanting; but Sir George Ballingall seems to think this of little consequence ; and in disease of the joint there may be circumstances demanding modification,—as, for example, the head of the bone may already be dislocated, and in great part absorbed ; but formidable though the operation may be,—and I should consider it extremely so,—the difficulty of performing it would not, in my opinion, be equal to that attending the selection of cases in which its application would be reasonable. Hemorrhage from branches of the gluteal artery would, doubtless, be considerable, and it is evident that if the incisions were carried too far in front or behind, irreparable injury might be inflicted on nerves as well as vessels. False joints in the lower extremity require no especial notice in this part of the work. Incisions and excisions are scarcely to be thought of in such cases, and a judicious practitioner would be most inclined to trust to one or other of the measures referred to in the chapter on these subjects. The surgeon has usually every reason to be well satisfied when he succeeds in arresting the fatal progress of hip-disease, by a kind of compromise, as it were, with nature, for a stiff joint. Some, however, have not rested content with such a condition, and have actually pro- posed to remedy the anchylosis by cutting through the soft parts, dividing the neck of the femur, and establishing a false joint in this situation. In the absence of any personal experience in such proceed- ings, I shall only say that I am at a loss to conceive any improvement which such a proceeding could bring about,—such, at all events, as would be equivalent to the pain and hazard of the operation, and were I ever consulted on such a question, I should strongly recom- mend the patient to rest satisfied, and be thankful that he had escaped in any way from such an intractable disease. Mr. Barton of Philadelphia has succeeded in one instance in im- proving the condition of the lower limb by such a proceeding. In this case there was great deformity and loss of power resulting from a fracture in the upper end of the femur, which (occurring in a sailor at sea) had not come under surgical care till the lapse of seven months.