445 OPERATIONS FOR CATARACT. is what is chiefly to be dreaded after the operation. In two or three weeks, provided everything has gone on favourably, the light may be gradually admitted, and in the course of time the sight may become so perfect that the smallest print may be distinguished. Here is an occasion where ambi-dexterity (p. 7) may be useful, although it is not absolutely requisite. If the operator is in front of the patient, he may use his right hand on the left eye, and his left on the patient’s right globe : if, however, he has not confidence in using the left, he can stand behind the patient and then use the hand with which the necessary movements are most easily made. In every in- stance the little finger should rest against the malar bone, and thus the double object will be obtained of giving great steadiness to the hand, and permitting it to follow any slight movements of the patient’s head, although every care should be taken to keep the latter as stead}' as possible. It is for this purpose that I recommend the high-backed chair, as being preferable to the breast of an assistant, although the latter is very frequently selected. Sometimes the patient is laid on a table face uppermost, and thus whilst greater steadiness is, perhaps, secured, the operator can use his right or left hand at will. The needle which I prefer for such a proceeding is that commonly called Scarpa’s; it is spear-pointed and slightly curved, and, in my opinion, answers as well as any other. Perhaps it may be more troublesome to disentangle it from the cataract after it has been couched, than the flat-shaped point of Saunders’s instrument, although here I cannot speak from my own experience, not having used the latter on the living subject. With Scarpa’s, however, I have noticed both with myself and others, that the cataract was occasionally raised slightly in withdrawing the point ; but even in instances where the needle has separated readily I have often seen the lens rise again and require an additional push downwards. On this account it is well not to remove the needle entirely until it is seen that the opaque object continues in its new position. The lens may be removed from the axis of vision by pushing the above instrument, or any other of a convenient sort, through the cornea and pupil, but there is an objection to this on account of the scar that might be left in the transparent cornea, and the greater risk of injuring the iris : the bad effects of the former might be avoided by keeping the instrument near the circumference of this part, but the iris would always be more or less in the way, and, moreover, no par- ticular advantage seems to attend the proceeding to induce a preference over the other. In general it is troublesome to get the eye so perfectly still as to enable the operator to pass the point of the needle into the exact spot lie may wish, but when once it has perforated the sclerotic the globe is, as it were, fixed on the needle, and can thus be kept perfectly steady, however restless it may have been before. Sometimes it is preferred to extract the cataract through an opening in the cornea, and the operation may be done thus:—The patient