THE HEAD AND NECK. .°,G« situation, and also that in the event of applying a trephine in this place, it will be necessary to divide the attachments of several muscles. Such a proceeding is, however, very rarely required. As it is presumed that the back of the neck may have already been dissected for the purposes of ordinary anatomical investigation, it need scarcely be again examined merely for surgical purposes, and therefore the subject may at once be placed on its back, with a block between the shoulders, of sufficient height to permit the head to hang with the parts in front on the stretch. The side of the neck may be first examined ; and whichever is se- lected, the head should be so turned as to stretch the skin completely. The dissecting-hooks had better be fixed to the chin and table, to keep all steady. An incision should then be made along the course of the clavicle from one end of that bone to the other; the knife should next be carried along the base of the lower jaw, from the chin, under the lobe of the ear, as far as the mastoid process, and the two incisions should then be connected by a third one, passing from the middle of the one to that of the other. The skin should now be dis- sected off the platysma myoides, as far as the anterior and pos- terior margins of this muscle; the anterior flap should be carried forward to the mesial line, the posterior backwards to the mastoid process, and a line leading downwards to the acromion. Skin, fat, and cellular texture should be raised at once, so as to display the platysma-myoides, which muscle may now be seen throughout its length and breadth, with the exception, perhaps, of some of the fibres at the upper and lower ends which extend beyond the transverse in- cisions. It will be observed that this muscle does not cover any of the mesial line, nor does it lie over any part of the parotid gland ; condensed cellular membrane will as yet be seen in these situations. Perhaps a blue discoloration will be observed in the middle of the muscle, parallel with its fibres, indicating the situation and course of the external jugular vein ; if not, there may probably be such a mark along the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid, in the course of the anterior jugular, when such an irregularity exists. The platysma-myoides should be raised by dividing its fibres ob- liquely in the course of the sterno-mastoid, and dissecting the two portions of the muscle, one upwards, the other downwards, when, if nothing but the muscle has been interfered with, the whole side of the neck will seem covered with a dense layer of cellular membrane, which is usually denominated the superficial fascia. The course of the external jugular may now be more clearly seen passing from about an inch in front of the angle of the jaw, almost in a straight line downwards, until it disappears in the cellular substance at the root of the neck, above the middle of the clavicle. As the vessel lies embedded in the fascia, it will be requisite to raise the cellular membrane from its outer surface, to permit its course being traced at this stage of the dissection. An incision should uow be made along the course of the sterno-