OPERATIONS ON THE LOWER JAW. 477 the body on that side, or possibly even the chin and a considerable extent further round. Supposing it to be of a size such as is last represented, (fig. 216,) the proceedings may be conducted in the following manner: The patient being seated as for the other opera- tions, the knife should be carried from the lip downwards, backwards, and upwards, as indicated by the dotted line on the drawing: the facial artery being secured in the manner already indicated, the bone must be divided in front with saw and forceps, as also described in a preceding page, when the mass must be drawn outwards (to one side), so as to permit the point of the knife being carried along its inner surface : the anterior attachments of the tongue, (supposing division of the bone to have been effected further round than the symphysis,) the mylo-hyoid, the mucous membrane, the internal pterygoid, the masseter, the temporal, the external pterygoid, and, lastly, the lateral ligaments and synovial capsule should all be divided successively, and so the separation will be accomplished. If the tumour is small, in all likelihood the articulation may be in a natural condition ; but under such circumstances, as the mass will pro- bably be tolerably firm, it can be advantageously used as a lever, whereby the action of the temporal muscle may be opposed, the coronoid process drawn downwards, and the condyle, in a manner, twisted out, after a slight application of the knife to such ligamentous fibres as are thrown on the stretch. In one instance in disarticulating on the living body a solid bony tumour, I found that the condyle actually separated from the periosteum on its inner side, and this part of the proceeding was therefore accomplished with great facility. If, on the other hand, the tumour is larger, the mouth may have been kept open for some time before, and the temporal muscle may therefore be easily reached, while the stretched state of the joint may possibly enable the separation of the condyle to be readily effected. In such a case the lever force is not so much to be trusted to, as the growth will probably be so soft as to tear across: this I have seen happen a little below the neck of the bone, where the large mass separated, and the condyle with the coronoid process, and some remaining portions of disease, were then dissected away. Sometimes the cutting forceps have been used on the coronoid pro- cess and neck of the bone, and the parts above have been left. I should in general, however, prefer removing them as being a simpler proceeding, and not in any way causing either additional pain or danger to the patient. One authority has recommended that the joint should be opened in front; another that the knife should be entered behind; for my own part, I should begin here at any point which seemed most convenient. The main source of apprehension regarding this step of the operation has been the proximity of the internal max- illary artery; but there need be far less dread on this score than many have imagined. If the point of the knife is kept close upon the bone the vessel can scarcely be touched; and should it actually be divided the bleeding can be readily restrained with the finger, until a ligature