122 TUMOURS. and thereby directly cutting off some of its channels of supply, has also been put into execution, probably on similar principles. The variohs local means which have been used on these occa- sions are much the same as those already referred to in describing the treatment of inflammation and some of its consequences, and I need not therefore enumerate them again. Iodine is the remedy in which most faith has been placed for the last fifteen or twenty years ; but I am free to confess, and I deem it my duty to do so, that I have never in one single instance seen an organized adventitious growth removed by it. I have already stated my conviction, that large swellings of serum, lymph, blood, and pus, may gradually dis- appear,—be absorbed, as we say in common language,—and I firmly believe that on many occasions iodine, used internally, but particularly externally, produces more decided effects in some of these instances, than any other means we know of. Hydrocele, hydrophthalmia, ef- fusions into joints, cysts (though rarely), enlargements of glands, such as the lymphatic or the thyroid, even gelatinous alterations of synovial membranes, will all disappear under the use of iodine ; but I think I may challenge any one to produce a single case where an exostosis, a scirrhus, a medullary sarcoma, or a fatty tumour, has been removed by its influence. I am myself a great admirer of iodine in its different forms, and I often wonder whether the remedy has not suffered in character from the overweening confidence of some of the zealous ad- vocates for its supposed extraordinary powers ; and in numerous in- stances where improvement has taken place during its use, I fear, that as in the case of many other so-called specifics, there has been too little note taken of those changes, both local and constitutional, which are the results of time and other circumstances. Operations for the removal of tumours may be amongst the most simple in surgery, or amongst the most difficult and dangerous which the surgeon is ever called on to perform. The smallest possible amount of skill or manual dexterity may suffice in one instance, whilst in another, anatomical knowledge, facility in the use of instru- ments, judgment to plan, and courage to execute, all the steps of the operation, are indispensably necessary. Encysted tumours may be operated on in a variety of modes. If of that kind commonly known under the name of ganglion (most fre- quently seen about the wrist and ankle), and if the cyst is not dense and strong, a little pressure witli the fingers, a smart blow with the knuckle, or with a book or other solid substance, will cause it to burst; the fluid will be extravasated in the surrounding cellular tex- ture, and then absorbed; some inflammation will be excited, partly by the injury of the cyst, and partly, perhaps, from the extravasation ; adhesion and obliteration of the sac will occur, and so the disease will be got rid of, and in the course of time no vestige of the sac will remain. Sometimes the sac cannot be burst, and then a needle may be pushed into it at one or more points, or a subcutaneous incision may be made to allow the fluid to escape into the surrounding texture.