THE INFERIOR EXTREMITY. 268 page. Mistakes occasionally occur in the diagnosis between these accidents; but however discreditable and injurious they may be, the ignorance or oversight is less reprehensible than that which leads to the treatment of a disease of the hip-joint, as if the case were one of dislocation. Many instances of this description have come to my know- ledge, and though they have in general occurred in the practice of the bone-setting charlatan, it is with regret that I cannot exculpate every member of the profession. I have known the mistake committed in the early stages of hip-disease, where there is scarcely a trace of resemblance between the cases; and if it takes place under such cir- cumstances, it must be allowed that it is much more likely to happen at that period of the disease when luxation has actually occurred: indeed, so far as the short- Fiy. 148. ening and attitude of the limb are concerned, and also the alteration in the shape of the hip itself, there is a great similarity: yet the points of difference are so glaring, that it is barely possible to imagine a sur- geon being so much at fault. The distortion re- sulting from disease is not usually so much referred to as that occurring from violence : the accompa- nying drawing (fig. 148), from a cast in our collection at King’s College, gives a good example of the kind, and though the subject of morbus coxarius does not come within the scope of this work, I conceive my present observations by no means irrelevant. Before the age of puberty, disloca- tion of the hip-joint from violence is an exceedingly rare occurrence, and hip- disease leading to displace- ment is equally rare after this period of life ; even the affection itself is comparatively unusual after this age ; but a knowledge of such matters should not induce the surgeon to form a hasty conclusion, as cases illustrative of the con- verse arc sometimes met with. I have lately had under treatment the most palpable case ot sponta-