CHEST, ABDOMEN, AND PELVIS. 558 practice of medicine will enable the surgeon to exhibit, have been tried and found of no avail, (which in all probability will be the result,) there are various mechanical proceedings which he may resort to, and which demand especial notice in such a work as this. The proposal to dissolve stone in the bladder by passing medicated fluids into that viscus is of old date. Towards the beginning of the last century the ingenious Dr. Hales used to show the possibility of passing a stream through the cavity by means of a double-tube catheter. His experi- ments were, however, performed on some of the lower animals, al- though he believed in the possibility of thus effecting the cure of stone on the human subject by solutions of the carbonate of soda. Since then, to the present day, but little progress has been made in this mode of treatment; for although, from time to time the practice seems to have been successfully tried, (as evinced by the cases occurring to Dr. Rutherford, Sir Benjamin Brodie, Drs. Ritter, Jurine, Petit, and others,) it has attracted a small share of attention from the practical surgeon. Various solvents have been used on these occasions, from simple water to nitric acid — the latter being so weakened as not to injure the mucous lining of the bladder. Hales was aware of the power of a solution of carbonate or subcarbonate of soda over certain kinds of calculi, and the efficacy of the Vichy water, whether as an internal or as a local remedy, depends, in a great measure, on the bi- carbonate of soda which it holds in solution. Dr. Rutherford used lime water; Dr. Ritter, caustic potash; Sir Benjamin Brodie, nitric acid — all, of course, in a diluted state. Dr. Hoskins, of Guernsey, affirms that he has discovered (by an elaborate process, if I understand him aright,) an effectual and safe solvent for phosphatic calculi, and only awaits the result of some trials now making with it, to give the formula publicity. Gruithuisen, although seemingly impressed with the virtues of simple water, entertained the idea that the strength of its current might have no inconsiderable influence, and so (perhaps with more mechanical ingenuity than surgical discretion) proposed to cany a stream through his double catheter by a tube communicating with a reservoir on the top of a two-story house! Professor Jurine, of Geneva, was of opinion that injections of water had caused such a change on a large calculus in one of his female patients, that it broke down into many fragments. This method of treating stone may now be more favourably resorted to than in former years; for, instead of the periphery alone being at- tacked, the object may be previously broken into fragments, whereby a vast extent of additional surface may be exposed to the dissolving and disintegrating influence of the menstruum. The fluid may be carried into the bladder by means of a catheter and syringe,—the latter such as is used for hydrocele,—or one made longer on purpose, or a caoutchouc bag with a proper nozzle may answer. A double tube—so constructed as to resemble externally a common catheter—had better be used, whereby, if it is desired, a con- tinued stream may be kept up. For this purpose Hales, Gruithuisen