392 THE HEAD AND NECK. already made in the mastoid ; and now the vessel should be cautiously looked for in the cellular membrane opposite the upper margin of the sternum. Perhaps the lower part of the carotid may be first laid bare; but if it is, the main vessel cannot be far off:—by tracing the former a little downwards, the innominata will be reached, and the needle and thread should be passed around it, (from below upward, or as may be most convenient,) about half an inch below the origin of the carotid. If the operator keeps low in the neck, the latter vessel, more especially when the innominata is of considerable length, may not be observed, and unless it be from small veins, or possibly some small arterial branch, there can scarcely be any annoyance in the whole proceeding. A good deal on this score may, however, depend on the steadiness of the patient, the length of the vessel, and particularly the length and thin- ness of the neck. Although the operation must be deemed the most formidable which can be undertaken on the large arteries, (unless, in- deed, ligature of the abdominal aorta can be considered more so,) it is by no means the most difficult, for under favourable and ordinary circumstances, and with moderate precaution, the surgeon can scarcely go wrong. There is nothing of consequence, excepting the veins al- ready alluded to, lying over the vessel, and the venae innominatae are usually sufficiently low to be out of harm’s way. The pleura, too, is so far under the artery, and the cellular tissue between them is so loose, that there need be little fear of this membrane suffering from the needle. The incision above recommended is such as I have seen made on the living body ; but, as with the operations previously described, I would not have the surgeon limit himself to one or other set course. Mr. Liston recommends that the incision should be made parallel with the left sterno-mastoid; but for my own part, I should, as has been stated elsewhere in this volume, (p. 36,) have more confi- dence in being able to appreciate the subcutaneous textures. A single perpendicular incision on either side, a transverse one, or a crucial will be nearly alike useful to a competent anatomist: such as that in- dicated by letter d, in figure 196 I should prefer ; and, if I found the space limited, I should make a transverse wound in the course of letter c on the same drawing. It was in an instance of aneurism of the subclavian above the clavicle that Dr. Mott first carried the bold idea into execution of performing this operation. In a case where he intended applying the thread to the latter vessel, he found after exposing it on the inner side of the scaleni that the tunics were apparently so diseased as to induce him to give up the idea, and (still anxious to afford his patient a chance of life) he de- termined to place the ligature on the innominata itself,—an alternative which he had at the commencement resolved to adopt, should circum- stances require it. Accordingly the artery was tied, and the operation was all but successful: the patient, however, died on the 26th day, and such has been the result of all succeeding operations,—some, as Graefe’s case, living a longer period, others a shorter. Mott's opera-