THE SUPERIOR EXTREMITY. 232 and an upper flap, consisting chiefly of the deltoid, may be first formed. Then, to make sure of having this flap (made in either way) of the largest possible size, an assistant may be directed to grasp and raise the deltoid, whilst the parts are being transfixed, and unless the surgeon has great power in his left hand, it may be as well that he should, at the first, entrust the management of the arm to an assistant; for, when it is held up by another’s aid, he can use his own hand in assisting to get the head of the bone out of its socket, so as to allow the knife to be applied in front. On the dead subject, or in an arm emaciated by disease, there is little trouble in elevating the bone ; but if the arm be weighty, and the subject muscular, as is often the case in severe injuries necessitating this operation, the forcible manner in which it is drawn to the side, by the action of those muscles which remain, after the first flap is formed, is really surprising, and unless the surgeon be himself possessed of equivalent energy he will have great difficulty in counteracting the combined opposition of weight and muscular action. On the right side 1 have operated in this way:—The patient has been laid on a table, and, standing in front of him, I have with a stout clasp bistoury, made a semilunar incision from a little behind the root of the acromion towards the coracoid process, and thus made a flap from the skin and deltoid, similar to that described at page 210 for excision of the head of the bone : this being raised, I have opened the joint from above, and preserved another flap from the remaining parts below the bone; and here, also, before dividing the axillary artery, I have desired an assistant to seize the vessel above. Here I regulated the movements of the humerus by holding the arm with my left hand. The next figure (129) will make the above description more easily understood : the point of the knife should, however, be a little higher up. For my own part, I should be as well content to use a bistoury for these operations, as the more imposing-looking amputating knife; but with such an instrument the first flap on the left shoulder would be made by cutting from the skin towards the joint. There are few, however, who would not prefer a long knife, and such a one may be used on the right shoulder as well as on the left. The operator may either cut the flap, as I have directed above, from the skin towards the joint, or he may transfix immediately below the acromion, as was done by Dupuytren, introducing the knife either in front of the joint (at the coracoid process) or behind it (at the root of the acromion), according to the side on which he stands, and cut his way outwards. But I fear that already such operations may appear sufficiently complicated, even by my brief allusions to these various modifications and alterations which, after all, form but a small proportion of those which have been proposed from the time of Le Dran to the present day. It will be observed that on the left side 1 have recommended lateral flaps, and on the right horizontal. A good anatomist would, however, have no difficulty in reversing these, that is, making lateral flaps on