AMPUTATIONS OF THE LEG. 353 limb in the first sweep, as above recommended, the point of the knife can not only be more readily inserted for transfixion, hut also the sur- faces will come more accurately together, and be better proportioned to each other than by the other method. The surgeon has not always the opportunity of selecting such a place as he might prefer for his operation, and is therefore occasional!}' forced to amputate very high. When this is the case, perhaps the nearer to the tuberosity of the tibia that the operation is performed so much the better. The popliteal artery can then be secured, when one ligature will suffice, instead of three, (two tibials and a fibular,) as will be required if the incisions are made a little lower. The proceedings may be conducted in the manner already described; but in several respects they will not prove so satisfactory to the operator. First, if the limb is muscular, a fleshy mass, formed chiefly of the gastrocnemius and soleus, will be left, which will with difficulty be covered by the skin: the latter seems to retract more readily here than the muscular fibres, and the most expert operator can scarcely avoid the annoyance. I have seen a large granulating surface, on the end of the muscles projecting between the edges of the wound, remain open for months, and from all I have witnessed in such cases, I believe that the surgeon would do well to cut away some of the muscular fibres, after the flaps have been formed, so as to bring them down to a level with the skin. Such a proceeding will convey an impression to those who are inclined to be hypercritical, of a want of skill on the part of the operator ; but he may console himself with the consideration that such practice is inculcated by an authority so high as Mr. Hey, who distinctly recommends it as advantageous. In the limb emaciated by long-continued disease, no such trouble is ex- perienced, and an excellent posterior flap can always be made at once. Next, in the upper third of the leg it is often extremely difficult to seize the vessels and have the ligatures applied; so much so, indeed, that I have seen a most expert surgeon, in despair, transfix the soft parts around the bleeding point with a tenaculum, and then surround them with a strong thread, leaving the instrument to separate with the ligature, being afraid to withdraw it lest the noose should drop off. In this part of the leg venous hemorrhage is troublesome occa- sionally, when the tourniquet is slackened, and it is often so when pressure by the fingers in the groin is resorted to; it will generally cease as soon as the surfaces are approximated, but until then, while the arteries are being secured, a little pressure with the point of the finger will stem the flow. In whatever part of the limb the incisions are made, I invariably preserve a semilunar flap in front, varying in length, in different cases, from half an inch to one inch, or more. I prefer this to the straight incision across the front, recommended by Mr. Hey, believing that the opposite surfaces will thus fit more accurately to each other. The crest of the tibia often seems so sharp and prominent that it is well to