246 THE INFERIOR EXTREMITY. muscle: the two inferior articular arteries may now be readily made out, and by turning the main trunk a little to one side, the articular branch which passes into the back part of the joint may also be seen. The soleus muscle should next be raised, by cutting its attachments to the tibia and fibula, and turning it downwards. The deep fascia will thus be brought into view ; at its upper part it is but thin; but in the lower-third of the leg it is of considerable strength. This membrane should now be raised by cutting its attachment to the tibia and turning it outwards, when the deep layer of muscles, with the posterior tibial vessels and nerves, will be exposed. The division of the popliteal artery into the anterior and posterior tibial branches should now be made distinct; the former should be traced forwards between the bones, to the part where it has already been dissected (p. 239), and the latter should be traced as low down as the ankle; it will be accompanied with two veins, and the nerve will be found on its fibular side throughout its whole course. The fibular artery will be observed passing from the posterior tibial, a little below the divi- sion of the popliteal; it soon arrives in contact with the fibula, when it passes under the flexor longus pollicis, which muscle must either be raised at its inner margin and turned outwards, or, what will be better, cut through at its attachment to the fibula, to permit a full view of this vessel. The tibialis posticus, flexor longus communis, and flexor longus pollicis muscles, should now be separated from their connexions with the bones and interosseal membrane, and then cut across a little above their respective tendons; the gastrocnemius and soleus muscles should also be cut below their junction ; the peroneus longus and brevis should then be dissected from their connexions with the fibula, and divided two inches above the lower end of this bone ; and the remaining anatomy of the foot may either be examined now or after the dissection of tile upper part of the thigh and hip; but as the tendons and ligaments are less perishable than the remaining soft textures ; and as it may be of moment to examine the muscles, and other soft parts, in a fresh condition, the dissection of the back of the thigh had better now be continued. An incision should be carried up the thigh, from the upper end of that already made for the display of the ham, in the mesial line as high as the trochanter major; the knife should then be turned towards the sacrum, and the incision brought to terminate over the lower ex- tremity of this bone; the instrument should next be carried from this point upwards and forwards along the crest of the ilium, as far as the anterior superior spinous process, when, by dissecting the skin to each side of the thigh and hip, the remainder of the aponeurosis may be displayed. This membrane is so thin over the gluteus maximus, that it will probably be raised with the skin; but between the large trochanter aud the anterior part of the crest of the ilium it is remark- ably strong, and gives a dense covering to the gluteus medius. The fibres of the gluteus maximus should now be cleaned, and the fascia removed from the muscles in the back of the thigh. The gluteus