OPERATIONS ON THE PREPUCE. 541 ensue, and the boy suffers acute pain when voiding his urine. Under such circumstances the disease may be checked and cured by injec- tions under the foreskin, first of tepid, and latterly of cold water; but it may happen, as the result of such an inflammation, that the foreskin becomes adherent to a large portion of the glans. From time to time the child may suffer in this way. Perhaps as he grows up, the fore- skin may be drawn back over the corona, and cannot readily be pushed forward again, and thus paraphymosis is established. Then, possibly, in advanced years, without this latter condition having ever been present, a venereal affection,—gonorrhoea, chancres,—even sim- ple excoriations, may induce great swelling of the prepuce, additional tightness of the orifice, and may thus obstruct the efficient use of lotions and dressings. Even without any such causes as those al- luded to, the natural discharges, from being pent up, act as irritants; warts often form within the prepuce in such cases, and occasionally a foul discharge ensues, the part becomes swollen, and when an ex- amination is made of the narrow orifice, the interior is found to be covered with such a crop of warts, as to appear like so much cauli- flower. These excrescences are more frequently seen in those with the prepuce in this state than when the orifice is of sufficient size to per- mit free ablutions. The most efficient relief for all these evils is to enlarge the orifice, or remove the prepuce entirely. If the latter be inflamed, unless there is reason to suspect mischief underneath, it is best to treat the inflam- mation merely, and to leave any such proceeding until the parts have in a manner resumed their original condition. If paraphymosis be present, an attempt must be made by compressing the glans—which in some such cases is remarkably turgid—to bring the skin forward. If inflammation has fairly set in, however, this can scarcely be accom- plished, and in some of these instances the retracted prepuce often becomes so oedematous that punctures will be advisable to permit the escape of serum, and it may also be necessary to carry the knife deep behind the corona, so as to divide, and thus enlarge in some degree, the orifice which is displaced in this situation. In gonorrhoea, or when chancres are present, and when the prepuce is swollen, it is a common cus- tom with some to slit it open, but in general I should dissuade from such practice, which in no wise expedites the cure, but causes additional pain at the time, and of- ten increases the amount of inflam- mation, inducing the effusion of lymph, and that condition usually termed solid (Edema, Fig. 228.