GRANULATION. CICATRIZATION. 74 The dressings may merely be laid on the surface, and retained by means of a loose bandage, but sometimes it is highly beneficial so to support the neighbouring parts—so to approximate them—that there shall be no drag upon the granulations, and that every facility shall be given to the process of contraction, which takes place in cicatrization. A roller properly applied, or adhesive straps, (which usually act as gentle stimulants, partly from pressure, and partly from the composition of the plaster,) or probably both combined, may produce the desired effect. Although in most instances it is highly desirable to produce contraction of granulations so that the cicatrix shall be of the smallest possible size, there are certain examples where great precaution should be used, lest the contraction should be such as to cause inconvenience or even deformity. In the cicatrization of severe bums, for example, parts of the body may be unnaturally drawn towards, or fixed against, each other, as is often seen in the hands and fingers, between the arm and chest at the axilla, and between the skin of the chin and that over the upper end of the sternum. I believe that more may be done to prevent these occurrences by proper attention to position at first, than by attempts to improve the state of the parts by subsequent operations. It is well to bear in mind, too, that contraction does not cease as soon as cicatri- zation has occurred: it will often go on to an amazing extent after- wards, and this may be for good or evil, according to circumstances. To continue the example of bums; if, when cicatrization on the surface seems complete, the patient is allowed to carry the part in such an attitude as he finds most convenient or agreeable, vast deformity may be the result, although the surgeon may have bestowed great attention during the period of granulation. There must be few practitioners of experience not familiar with such examples. Lately a patient was under my care in our hospital, with a large granulating surface in front of the elbow, resulting from a burn: as cicatrization went on, I kept the arm in an extended position, having no fear of a stiff joint; when the process appeared completed, I allowed the patient to keep the extremity in any attitude he chose, and whilst he was out of bed he bore it in a sling with the elbow bent at a right angle : in the course of a few days, the cicatrix became prominent, forming a band between the lower end of the arm, and upper part of the forearm, evidently preventing extension : a little force, however, was sufficient for this; the straight position was again resumed, but it was not until after several similar occur- rences that the disposition to contract seemed to cease. But more will be said on these matters in another part of the work. With regard to attitude, it may be deemed an established rule, that the affected part should always, if possible, be kept on a level with or above the rest of the body. If this be not attended to, the healing process goes on much more slowly, (if it goes on at all,) and hence, then, the advantage of keeping a person in the horizontal position,