amputation of the thumb. 2-21 another may then be made in front; the lateral ligaments and other textures should next be cut through in any manner most convenient to the operator, and thus the parts may be removed one after the other. Amputations of the thumb may be done in a similar manner to those of the fingers. If the two phalanges require removal, the meta- carpal bone should not be meddled with. In some instances the metacarpal bone is the only one diseased, and it becomes a question whether the whole thumb is to be sacri- ficed in such cases. The usual practice is to do so, but I doubt its correctness. The thumb is of such great utility, that it ought not to be removed on such considerations as might induce the removal of a finger. In saying this, I do not mean to state that a finger even should be taken away without due consideration and a just cause: I only wish it to be remembered, that this organ is of incalculable ad- vantage to the hand, and that, therefore, if it can be preserved, even with diminished utility, it will be better to do so than to sacrifice it entirely. In corroboration of these remarks, I may state that I have seen extirpation of the metacarpal bone of this member performed, and the phalanges preserved; and though the organ was far from being strong, still the patient (a female) could use the needle with tolerable facility not long afterwards ; and the appearance of the hand was less remarkable, and evinced slighter trace of mutilation, than if the thumb had been entirely removed. If an attempt were made to save a finger by excision of a diseased metacarpal bone, (and there can be no doubt that such an attempt would succeed,) the organ would really be of little service. There are other fingers to compensate, in some measure, the loss of one, but the loss of the thumb can never be supplied. Moreover, the thumb will be, in all likelihood, a much more powerful organ, after the extraction of its metacarpal bone, than the finger after a similar loss, as may be conjectured from the differ- ence in length of the two, both in the remaining portions, and those that are taken away, as well as from the firmer cushion of soft parts that will remain from the ball of the thumb, than from the correspond- ing textures in the hand. The metacarpal bone of the thumb may be removed through an incision on its radial margin, where the surgeon may avoid cutting either the extensor or flexor tendons. The distal extremity should first be detached from its connexions, when the bone can be used as a lever whilst separating it from the other parts. The radial artery will be endangered whilst cutting some of the fibres which bind the bone to the os trapezium. When the thumb and metacarpal bone are to be removed, the operation may be done by carrying a bistoury through the soft parts between the metacarpal bone and that of the forefinger upwards, until it is arrested by the trapezium; then through the joint; and lastly, by cutting downwards, and forming a flap of the fleshy substance consti- tuting the ball of the thumb. The drawing (fig. 122) exhibits the bistoury in the first of its course, and the dotted line shows part of