395 LIGATURE OP ARTERIES. l When ?he operator entertains any doubt about his locality, he should immediately refer to some well-known object in the vicinity: thus, the stemo-mastoid, whose fibres will always be more or less dis- tinct, may be looked at, and if those of the upper belly of the omo- hyoid be exposed at the same time, the vessel, which lies immediately behind the angle where these muscles cross each other, can scarcely be missed, particularly after some of the cellular tissue has been divided. The par vagum should not be seen ; but the close position of this important part to the outer and posterior side of the artery should not be forgotten. The best method of avoiding it will be that already pointed out, viz. keeping the point of the needle close to the artery : by following this proceeding, too, and also carrying it from without inwards, the convexity of the instrument will be opposed to the vein, which, as the operator should know, lies close on the outer side of the carotid. The sympathetic is invariably so far behind and so loosely con- nected with the posterior surface of the sheath, that it is scarcely pos- sible to imagine an instance where it could be included in the liga- ture. Perhaps the greatest trouble in the operation will be from some small artery or vein. Often one or more branches of the superior thyroid, which pass to the sterno-mastoid, are so large as to bleed freely at first: if these give the least annoyance and cannot be commanded by the fingers of assistants, or by broad copper spatuke (either of which may be used to keep the wound open), ligatures should be at once applied, and I should say the same practice might be adopted in case of hemorrhage from small veins, which sometimes run across the course of the incisions. Such practice will seldom be required for the latter, however, and certainly should not be adopted without real necessity. If there is an anterior jugular it must be held aside with a blunt hook. If the ligature is applied at the point above directed, it will pro- bably be about half or three quarter of an inch from the bifurcation ; a line or two higher or lower cannot make any material difference. But it often happens that the operation must be done much lower in the neck, and here it becomes somewhat more difficult. The external incision must be of a similar length, only lower down, yet still on the inner margin of the stemo-mastoid. The same tissues must be di- vided, and in addition the sterno-hyoid, and possibly also the sterno- thyroid muscles, must be partially or wholly cut across. In fact, the instructions which have already been given for finding the commence- ment of the subclavian, or for exposing the innominata, will answer equally well for this proceeding on the carotid. In the opera- tions referred to it is recommended to divide the inner head of the sterno-mastoid ; and were I operating on the lowermost part of this vessel, I should not hesitate about doing so, for doubtless this would greatly facilitate the remaining steps. In such an instance I should make the external incision exactly in the line recommended