202 THE SUPERIOR EXTREMITY. Fig. 101. was performed on the fragments of the radius, and those of the ulna were treated with the seton,— success following in about twenty months from the receipt of the injury, which was a compound fracture occasioned by the bursting of a gun. In false joints after fracture of the olecranon (p. 176), I think it would in general be best to let matters alone. I have seen a person make excellent use of the arm in such a case. In the shaft of the humerus it is evident that, in false joint, the extremity would be of little service, and if milder measures did not answer, I should not hesitate about exposing the ends of the frag- ments, and such an operation might be readily and safely accom- plished on any surface of the limb, excepting that on which the artery is placed. After using the knife, and treating the ends of the bone as might be deemed advisable, the wound should be brought together by stitches and straps, and, the fragments being placed in proper position, the future treatment might be such as would be resorted to in a case of compound fracture. On the dead subject an incision may be made between the deltoid and pectoralis major muscle, so as to expose the cephalic vein. A wound about an inch in length should be made for the purpose. Lisfranc has recommended such a proceeding in instances where the veins in front of the elbow are so small or so enveloped in fat, that venesection cannot be performed in the ordinary manner. I have never heard of such a proceeding being adopted in this country, and, for my own part, would rather select the external jugular vein, the temporal artery, leeches, or cupping. The vein in the neck might also be obscured by fat; but any of the other measures would, in my opinion, be preferable to making such an incision, which might, after all, only expose a vessel so small that a sufficient quantity of blood could not be obtained from it. I have often, in the dissecting-room, noticed this vein scarcely larger than a crow-quill, and where the superficial veins are not very conspicuous at the elbow, I imagine that this one will be small in proportion. Such a condition as that represented in the next drawing (fig. 101)