373 DISSECTIONS OF THE NECK. down the connexion is somewhat more loose, and they can scarcely be said to touch each other. The latter feature is, perhaps, most con- spicuous on the right side, and on the left the vein at the lowermost part of its course lies somewhat in front of the artery. If the sterno-thyroid, stemo-hyoid, and sterno-mastoid muscles be now replaced, and if the fat, cellular membrane and skin, be taken into account, the great depth of the lower part of the carotid artery may be appreciated, and it will be seen how it is covered by the lower ends of the two first-named muscles, and by the sternal portion of the sterno-mastoid. The surgical anatomy being different on the two sides of the neck, some separate consideration must be given to each. If the dissection above described has been on the left side, the carotid artery may next be traced as deep into the chest as the neigh- bouring bones and soft parts will permit. For this purpose the inter- nal jugular vein should first be traced downwards, and then be held aside. The vein will be seen to join the subclavian almost in front of the artery, and the two combined, forming the left vena innominata, may be traced towards the right side of the neck ; but the latter part of the course of this vessel need not be attended to at present. The re- maining structures in this situation had better be examined. The sub- clavian artery, which has already been traced to the inner margin of the anterior scalenus, should be followed into the chest also. If any of the fibres of the last-named muscle be still entire they should be cut across, and in doing so, care should be taken to preserve the phrenic nerve, which here lies close upon the inner margin of the muscle. If the vessel be now cleared a little nearer the heart, the origin of most of the branches of the subclavian may be observed : the thyroid artery, by itself, or giving off the ascending cervical, transversalis colli, supra-scapular, in- ternal mammary, and perhaps the vertebral, may all be displayed: the origin of the latter, however, may not be distinctly observable, nor will it be possible to see the superior intercostal branch. Notice should be taken of the proximity of all these to that part of the main artery which lies between the scaleni muscles, and it may now be perceived, too, how short that portion of the vessel is which can be seen between the origin of these branches, and where it dips be- hind the pleura. At this latter part of its course the par vagum may be noticed in front, and from the inner margin of the first rib as far as the artery may have been traced, the vessel may be observed to be in pretty close contact with the pleura, which membrane projects a little above the level of the rib in most subjects. In making the dissections last described, the internal jugular vein shovdd be drawn towards the trachea, and the subclavian, if much in the way, should be held downwards. Several branches may perhaps have been noticed joining the latter, and the thoracic duct may pro- bably have been seen joining it also, at the angle of union between this vein and the internal jugular. Unless, however, the dissector be an experienced anatomist, or that the duct has been distended with air