69 SINUS. nished so much, that its whole interior may be freely exposed at once, as in the treatment of abscesses of a smaller kind. This practice is well worthy of commendation ; but, like many other really good measures, it does not always succeed: the puncture may not heal, and there will be a continued drain of fluid through it; inflammation ma}r ex- tend from the wound over the whole sac ; the nature of the secre- tion will thus become much altered; possibly a few globules of air, entering through the aperture, may cause putrefaction or other im- portant change; and supposing even that none of these evils have occurred, and that the sac has diminished as desired, a sinus may still remain which will baffle the best skill. However, even in this condi- tion, I think it must be admitted that the patient is in a better state than with a large abscess. Sometimes bad results will follow the first operation; but in general every thing goes on well until the third or fourth : by this time, however, there is less danger than previ- ously. I have very frequently tried this plan, and from experience, then, can speak highly in its favour. Lately, I treated in this way, in King’s College Hospital, a very large abscess, situated chiefly in the iliac fossa and upper part of the thigh (see Lancet, Nov. 6, 1841) : by repeated openings in the latter region, the matter was entirely eva- cuated, whilst the sac gradually contracted and ultimately closed. In this instance, the lower part of the abscess opened again after the lapse of several months; but the whole of the large cavity, which must at one time have existed in the iliac fossa, remained perma- nently obliterated. I refer to this case, chiefly on account of the latter circumstance, as it is by no means unusual for a part of an abscess to open up again, after being supposed to have closed entirely ; and these sinuses, as they may be termed, are often more troublesome to deal with than the original disease. Although I have recommended the free use of the knife in cases of sinus, when other means will not avail, there are certain instances where this practice may not be necessary, or where something addi- tional may be required: thus, a foreign substance,—any extraneous object that may have passed into the body, or a piece of necrosed or carious bone, may be the cause of sinus. In the first of these exam- ples, probably the foreign body may be reached and removed without any particular use of the knife ; and, if so, in all probability the sinus will speedily close. If necrosis be the cause, possibly the loose por- tions of bone may be removed by similar means ; perhaps, however, a little additional cutting may be required, and this will be especially necessary in the instance of caries. The description of the operations for these puiposes will be found in after parts of this work, and I need not say more at present on such subjects, than to refer to the impossibility of removing in all instances, by such direct surgical or mechanical means, the foreign substances which may, by the conti- nued irritation they keep up, prevent the closure alike of wounds, abscesses, or sinuses. Sometimes in tile treatment of suppuration, several openings should