47 ISSUES. SETONS. such as the corrosive sublimate, sulphuric and other strong mine- ral acids, which, however, I do not deem worthy of especial notice here. Among the different forms of counter-excitement, I may allude to that which has been termed the pea-issue, and to the seton. The former is effected by means of placing a common pea, or a pepper pellet, in a wound made on the surface for its reception, or on a sore already made with caustic, and keeping it there by means of a strip of plaster, so that it acts as a source of excitement and irritation, —the latter effect being further promoted by the addition of some stimulating ointment, such as the savine. So far as I know, this practice is but rarely followed in the present day ; and I have myself, in the trials which I have made of it, seen no reason to induce me to recommend it in preference to others. The seton is a remedy which seems to me to be also in less repute than it once was. It is still, however, occasionally used, and from time to time I have met with individuals, somewhat advanced in years, who were bigoted in its favour. Its supposed efficacy in averting apo- plexy, and other affections within the head, still induces its frequent necessity, and the introduction of a seton is usually considered a surgical operation. The seton generally consists of a cord of worsted, cotton, hemp, or silk thread, passed through and under the skin for the distance of an inch or so. The back of the neck, or the arm, opposite the attachment of the deltoid, is usually select- ed for its locality; but it may be applied in any region of the body, as over the pubes, in the perineum, loins, or wherever else it may be thought advisable. The thread is commonly conveyed under the skin by means of a large flat needle, about three or four inches long, and a quarter of an inch in breadth, but the necessity for this instrument may generally be avoided by using the bistoury and probe, which are instruments that cannot be dispensed with in the modern pocket-case. When the skin is lax, it should be pinched up betwixt the thumb and fore-finger, and the blade of a bistoury should then be pushed through both layers; the point of the probe should then be carried along the flat surface of the blade, and the cord, which has been previously attached to its eye, should be drawn through after it. Inflammation in the track of the thread will be the speedy result, suppuration soon follows, and the excitement may be kept up for any desired length of time, so long as the foreign substance is allowed to remain, the savine ointment being occasionally useful in promoting further suppuration. Objections have been made to threads of any kind being used as setons, owing to the filth which accumulates upon them, and I cannot but concur in this objection, although 1 have nothing to say in favour of the modern substitute in shape of a slip of tape covered with caoutchouc, which also, at best, is but a filthy affair, and often, by the irritation of its sharp margins, makes one glad to supplant it by the common thread. wmm