THE HEAD AND NECK. 40-1 small pebbles, buttons, coins, and sucb like objects, which children may inadvertently allow to pass the rima glottidis, may lodge in the ventricles of the larynx, and might be more readily displaced by having the opening near. A fish-bone has been known to stick across the larynx, and La Martiniere has related a case where a large brass pin, which had been attached to the end of a boy’s whip, was in cracking the toy forcibly driven across the larynx, from whence it was extracted by making an incision through the skin sufficient to permit of its head being seized, as the latter was sunk deep underneath. Whether an opening be required for oedema of the rima glottidis, for ulceration connected with the upper orifice of the larynx, for croup, or for the removal of foreign substances from the bronchi or trachea, the incision is almost invariably made in the latter tube. In the first of these conditions above named, the opening is required to allow respiration to go on ; in the next, partly with the latter object, but more particularly to allow the ulcers to remain at rest,—at least so some have argued, and for croup to admit of more free respiration, and also of the escape of mucus (perhaps of false membrane) from the trachea and bronchial tubes. In asphyxia, from whatever cause it may arise, and when it is resolved to open the air passages in the neck, it is evident that there is no time to lose, and therefore the surgeon should complete the operation at once without heeding the hemorrhage, however copious it may be: the patient has no chance of life unless respiration is restored, whereas experience has shown that death from hemorrhage in such proceedings is exceedingly rare. It is generally recommended that in doing this operation the wound in the trachea should not be made until all bleeding has ceased ; but although it is satisfactory to see that such is the case, it would in some instances be highly im- proper to do so. Mr. Porter states, “ that it has happened that a patient has been lost whilst the surgeon delayed the opening into the trachea in order previously to controul an alarming hemorrhage.” An erroneous impression obtains with some, that the interior of the trachea is as exquisitely sensitive as the upper orifice of the larynx, where a drop of water cannot touch without producing a paroxysm of coughing; but experience in these operations has shown, that the lining of the windpipe possesses as litfle of this pecidiar deli- cacy as in most other mucous canals. A few drops then, or in- deed any quantity, so that it does not impede breathing, may pass into the tube through the wound with impunity, as it will be ex- pelled again as soon as its presence causes annoyance. Indeed, with- out wishing to detract from the danger of bleeding, I nevertheless doubt if any one ever died from the internal hemorrhage on these occasions: I have myself seen blood flow freely into the trachea from such wounds, but it has been speedily and as freely ejected again, and, for my own part, the bleeding which I should most dread would be from a copious flow externally. If half an ounce or an ounce of blood was to flow into the trachea, unless the patient were exceed-