ANEURISM. 108 the question of priority. Hunter operated in a case of spontaneous aneurism, Anel in one where the vessel had been wounded. In the former case, there was every reason to suppose that the vascular tex- ture was not in a state of health, as evinced by the spontaneous dila- tation or bursting of the artery; in the latter, the puncture with the lancet had evidently occasioned the disease, and there was no reason to deem the vessel, immediately above and below the wound, otherwise than healthy. Anel did his operation in an instance where most of our best authorities would still perform the old operation. Hunter tied the femoral artery at a distance from the popliteal aneurism, to avoid the acknowledged disadvantages and dangers of the operations pre- viously performed in similar cases. In punctures of the humeral artery during venesection, there is sufficient evidence to prove, that if ligatures be placed above and below the seat of injury, the vessel will close per- manently ; and, before Hunter’s operation, there was no lack of tes- timony as to the formidable residts of all preceding operations. But such questions do not require to be argued at the present day and I may, therefore, proceed to state generally, that in spontaneous aneurism, when it occurs in any part of the body, where it properly comes under the care of the surgeon, and when an operation for its cure is resolved upon, the ligature is usually applied at some consi- derable distance from the disease; on the other hand, if it is the result of injury, deligation may be resorted to, as close to the orifice in the vessel as may be found convenient. Thus, in the humeral artery, when injured during venesection, a ligature is applied immediately above the wound, and, to prevent bleeding from the lower orifice, which may take place in consequence of free anastomosis, another is applied immediately below: the aneurism is actually cut into, and- the blood or fibrin turned out. In the spontaneous aneurism, however, the tumour is untouched,—left entirely to nature. The practice in these different cases will be more fully illustrated af- terwards, and it should be here observed that there may be exceptions to some of these general rules. As, for example, in an aneurism of the femoral artery resulting from a wound, the surgeon would act more wisely in placing a ligature upon the vessel at a point nearer the heart, and leaving the tumour untouched, than by cutting down to the seat of injury. Here the recurrent circulation is not so much to be dread- ed as in the arm, and there is every probability of the cure going on as it would in a case of spontaneous disease. I wish it to be remem- bered that the practice here recommended has reference to aneurism, and not to a wound of the vessel, with the blood fiowing from the surface, for in such a case I might, perhaps, prefer exposing the seat of injury, as recommended in after parts of this work. As it is not my present object to detail all that has been done or may be done in the treatment of surgical disease, I need here only state, that for external aneurism, the only certain remedy which the surgeon possesses, is ligature of the vessel with which the disease is connected. Pressure has sometimes proved successful, and in all