INCISIONS. The simple incision (fig. 40), consisting of a straight line, is the one in most common use, and ought on all ^ig. 40. occasions to be preferred when the circumstances will permit, as there is not only less injury done to the parts than by any other, but, in addition, the scar left is less observ- able. It is more readily made, too, than most others, and its edges can be more accurately brought together. To effect this incision, the point of the scalpel, or bistoury, held as shown on some of the early pages, should be thrust into the skin at a right angle with the surface; the wrist should then be depressed, and the edge inclined upon the skin; when, after a requisite length of incision has been made, the wrist should be elevated, and the instru- ment, ere it is withdrawn, should again be held nearly at the same angle as when introduced. In this way no “ tail,” as it is technically called, is left in the incision, or, in other words, there is no scratch made on the surface at the beginning and end of the wound, (which merely causes pain to the patient without being of any advantage in the operation,) but a fair cut through the skin, which is fully available for the purpose of reaching the subjacent parts, in proportion to its extent, which latter may vary from the smallest imaginable length to twelve inches or more. Occasionally, such a wound may be advantageously made by pinch- ing up the skin between the fore and middle finger of the left hand, then thrusting the knife through both layers at once, and cutting out- wards : indeed, when the skin is very loose, this is perhaps the best manoeuvre;—as in the removal of small tumours, or the operation for crural hernia, when the integuments have not become inflamed, or firmly adherent to the parts underneath. The semilunar incision (fig. 41) is in almost as frequent use as the one above described. It is made by carrying the knife in a lunated direction, as shown below, with similar movements of the wrist, and the same care that the whole thickness of the skin is divided, the con- vexity being upwards or downwards as may be deemed best. When a large extent of the subjacent parts must bo exposed, a crucial incision (fig. 42) may be made; or wounds may be devised after the form of different letters, such as figs. 43, 44, 45, and 4G, with the Fig. 41. Fig. 42. Fig. 43. Fig. 44. Fig. 45. Fig. 46.