EXCISION OF THE ELBOW. 20.5 invc a patient the chance of saving an arm, which, twenty years ago, would in all likelihood have been doomed to amputation. In the early part of the present century, notwithstanding the excel- lent treatise on excision of carious joints, published in 1806 by Dr. Jeffrey, of Glasgow, such operations seemed to have attracted but little attention from the practical surgeons of the day. To M. Roux and Sir Philip Crumpton we may be almost said to be indebted for the revival of excision of the elbow ; but to no living practitioner, in so far as I am aware, is there so much merit due on this score as to Mr. Syme, who has I believe, within the last twenty years, had more personal experience in this operation than any other single cotem- porary. The operation is certainly most successful in young patients, but even in the adult there is ample proof that it may be done advan- tageously ; and although bad consequences have followed in some ex- amples, amputation would not, in all probability, have been attended with better results. When a patient dies after amputation of a limb, no properly educated surgeon would ever dream of denouncing this operation, or stating that it should never be done again ; and excision of the ends of some of the bones, more particularly of those of the elbow, seems to me of such undoubted utility, that the circumstance of certain examples having terminated unfavourably ought in no degree to be admitted as a just argument against the general performance of such operations. Any surgeon may amputate an arm, but when once done, it can never be replaced; and no artificial apparatus can ever be compared, either in appearance or usefulness, with the parts, what- ever may be their condition,,after successful excision of the elbow- joint. The main object in such a proceeding is to remove all the diseased portions of bone, and this ought to be accomplished with as little in- jury to the surrounding parts as circumstances will permit. By laying open certain sinuses, which may exist in some instances, sufficient room may be obtained, but in general it will be better to make either a crucial incision (fig. 102), or one in the form of figure 103, as shown below. Fin. 102. Fig. 103. The posterior surface of the joint is evidently the most eligible part to make a free opening, the large artery and nerves, with the ex- ception of the ulnar, all lying in front, being separated, too, from the bones by the brachialis anticus muscle. The operation is accordingly always done on the dorsal aspect. The patient may be either laid on