1)3 HEMORRHAGE. there is really no such great clanger in interfering with veins, as was supposed by those who reasoned on the few fatal results of ligature of the internal saphena, practised by Home and others, as it is rarely necessary to use a ligature to a vein, there is no occasion for inflicting an additional and worse kind of wound upon it, by means of the thread. For oozings of blood either from veins or arteries, it is customary to trust to local astringents and styptics of various kinds. Cold air, solutions of spirits of wine, of tinctures, of turpentine, of various salts, such as the acetate of lead, sulphate of alum, of zinc, or of copper, nitrate of silver, caustic potash, even the actual cautery, have all been used for this purpose. From time to time pretended specifics have been used, also; but with these, as wras the case with the famous styptic of Brossard, the agaric, pressure seems invariably to be the main agent; and doubtless it would, if properly applied in a severe hemorrhage, be equally efficient without the aid of the mysterious and empirical supposed styptic. Cold air, or cold water, will generally prove successful in ordinary cases, and the cautery will arrest bleeding from very large vessels; but unless these run in bone, or cannot be commanded in any other way, it is now-a-days seldom used for such purposes. Any of the other means enumerated above, used undi- luted or otherwise, will prove styptical in all ordinary oozings. Sometimes they are merely allowed to come in contact with the sur- face; on other occasions they are combined with pressure, the latter being applied by means of sponge or lint, kept on by the hand or by a bandage. In all instances, the surgeon should bear in mind, the favourable influence of keeping the bleeding part above the level of the heart if possible, nor should he forget the remarkable effects of the acetate of lead when used internally in such cases, as well as the peculiar influence of digitalis over the heart’s action. In many instances the surgeon is obliged to trust to one or other of these means ; but, I need scarcely repeat, that when ligatures can be used with propriety, they should generally be preferred. Secondary hemorrhage is often more alarming, and more uncontrol- lable, than that which occurs during the performance of operations, or as the immediate effect of injuries. This kind of bleeding usually happens after amputations, and operations for aneurism, about the period when the ligature separates from the principal artery. It may ensue in consequence of the adhesive process not having taken place in the vessel at the scat of ligature, or it may be the result of un- healthy inflammation, or of ulceration in the wound, causing the ves- sel to open after having been closed by the proper effusion of lymph. The bleeding which occurs in ulceration and sloughing, such as occa- sionally happens at the ham, groin, and neck, (although it may be for the first time, i. c. primary,) is somewhat analogous, as there is a similar unhealthy action—a similar deficiency of adhesion. When the vessel is small, some ordinary styptic may suffice to arrest the hemorrhage, particularly if combined with pressure; but