THE INFERIOR EXTREMITY. 6 the ankle,—will be thrust downwards, the pelvis being the fulcrum, and thus will the extension be kept up during the after treatment by occasionally tightening the handkerchief: the next and last step in the proceedings is to apply a roller from the ankle upwards, when the limb will present the appearance-just represented in fig. 162, taken from one of the patients in our hospital. Sometimes it may be advantageous to place a short wooden or pasteboard splint along the inner side of the thigh, and, if the fracture be low down in the femur, there is not much occasion for the band under the perineum, as the purchase of the splint and bandage on the upper fragment is sufficiently complete to keep all steady. In fracture of the lower third of the bone or in the upper or middle part of the tibia, I have seen a method like the following answer most excellently: being in the country, and asked to see a case of the kind, I have in my younger days (being then an adept with the saw and plane) gone to the nearest carpenter’s shop, and cut out a couple of splints similar to those above referred to ; I have then, after setting the limb whilst the patient was in bed, rolled them up in each side of a doubled tablecloth, until there was just space enough left in the mid- dle to contain the limb, which was next placed between the boards, and retained steadily by bringing the splints up on each side, and keep- ing them there by means of a sufficient number of stout tapes. This method I first saw used by my friend, Mr. Stuart, of Kelso, a most excellent practitioner; and, having since tried it frequently, can speak most confidently in its favour. Fractures of the neck of the femur have been distinguished into those which occur within the capsular ligament, and those which take place outside, and the principal point of difference between the two is this, that in the latter the fragments may be expected to unite by bone, whilst in the former such an event rarely happens. There is no part of Sir Astley Cooper’s admirable work on Dislocations and Fractures more worthy of notice than that which relates to this subject, and his experience and investigations have been such, that, coupled with the additional observations of the editor of the last edition, Mr. B. Cooper, it is scarcely possible to refer to any feature in such cases which has been omitted to be mentioned. Between fractures outside of the capsular ligament, and those in other parts below, I cannot see any great practical distinction : undoubtedly they happen more frequently in the person advanced in years than in him who is under the middle age; yet, as I have myself seen, they may occur at the age of twenty-two, and in no respect need their treat- ment be different from what might be deemed requisite in that part of the bone below the trochanters,—the object being, in either case, to keep the limb at a proper length, in good position, and to procure ossific union. Though all these ends cannot be accomplished in every instance, it is, in most, quite proper to keep them in view; but the leading features of practice may be different in the other case, (i. e.