183 FRACTURES OF THE HUMERUS. sidcration; it must, therefore, he put right from time to time. I avoid a deal of trouble in these fractures, and in many others, on which I wish to retain a bandage for a long period, by moistening the calico with a thick solution of starch, or dextrine, at the time it is put on, which, when dry, causes the turns of the roller to adhere firmly to each other, and prevents their being displaced either by the move- ments of the patient or the contact of the usual coverings in the way of dress. To prevent cedema I generally envelope the hand and fore- arm in a bandage. The limb, as in all other serious injuries of the superior extremity, must be worn in any convenient sling, such as that exhibited in the figure. A complicated kind of injury sometimes happens at the shoulder, viz., dislocation of the head of the humerus into the axilla, and frac- ture in its neck, of which I have seen two well-marked instances, ad- mitting no possible doubt regarding their nature. In such cases an attempt should be made to thrust the head of the bone into its proper place :—the thumb or fingers may be used for this purpose ; or, as was proposed by Delpech, a tourniquet may be applied, the acromion being the fixed point. If this cannot be done (and even if it can), the arm must be put up as if for a simple fracture in the neck of the humerus, and whatever be the result, no attempt need be made in future to reduce the luxation, as it will not succeed, and may do much harm. In both these examples a false joint formed between the shaft of the humerus and the glenoid cavity, and the head of the bone could be distinctly felt fixed on the lower margin of the scapula during the ordinary and, of course, somewhat limited movements of the arm. This injury has often induced me to ask the question, how the head of the bone, being fairly separated from the shaft above the tuberosities, and therefore in all likelihood within the capsular ligament, had con- tinued to survive. Doubtless, some portions of capsule or periosteum had still kept up a vascular connexion, but the separation between the head of the bone and the shaft was so great in the instances to which I allude, that it was difficult to imagine that any bond of union had been left when the injury happened, and possibly the part may have been merely enveloped in a newly-formed cellular capsule. In the valuable museum at Fort Pitt there is a rare example of fracture in the upper part of the humerus, which must have accom- panied a severe injury of the shoulder-joint: the neck of the bone has been shattered, and the head has been driven down into the cancel- lated structure of the shaft: nevertheless union has taken place, and the joint has apparently recovered most of its movements. Although I have recommended the use of pads and bandages in these cases of fracture in the neck of the humerus, I am of opinion that in some instances the surgeon may dispense with them. Persons advanced in life seem most liable to such fractures, and most of the examples which have come under my notice have been in females, on whom there is difficulty in adjusting any apparatus. I am doubtful, if in aged persons, who may probably not require