DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 503 cular notice here, nor does it seem requisite to refer in any marked manner to anomalous tumours of this description. The ordinary knowledge which every medical man must possess will at once lead him to appreciate the coverings of an umbilical protrusion, and also those rarer forms which occur in the pelvis between the bladder and rectum, or between the latter organ and the vagina, as well as those in the obturator and sacro-sciatic foramina. Neither need any especial notice be taken of protrusions of part of the abdominal viscera into the thorax, whether through the natural apertures or through wounds, nor of those examples where the caput caecum descends in such a manner that its posterior surface is so placed in the hernial tumour as to be uncovered by the peritoneal sac. For all such matters the reader is referred to works devoted exclusively to the subject, at the head of which may be placed those of Sir Astley Cooper and Mr. Lawrence, which are each so complete as to leave little more for their successors to accomplish. The examination of the surgical anatomy of the abdomen and pelvis may now be continued. The intestines should be removed, and the peritoneum be stripped off the iliac arteries and lower part of the aorta. The external iliac should be traced from Poupart’s ligament upwards; some cellular membrane will be observed to form a sheath for it and the vein, which latter will be found on the inner side of the artery, both being situated on that part of the psoas magnus muscle which forms the soft brim of the pelvis. The internal iliac should next be exposed, by stripping the peritoneum a little down- wards into the pelvis ; half an inch or an inch of the vessel may be observed, after detaching a small quantity of cellular tissue ; perhaps the gluteal, the obturator, or others of its branches may be seen, and the vein may be noticed on the upper side of the artery nearest the bone. The common iliac may next be traced: it will in general be perceived to lie on the side of the fourth lumbar vertebra ; the cellular texture surrounding it forms a small proportion to the size of the vessel; the vein will be found on the mesial side, especially as regards the left one, but the right will be chiefly behind. In connexion with all these arteries, numerous lymphatic glands may be observed, more especially at the lower end of the external iliac, where they are often of considerable size. In stripping off the peritoneum, the ureter will be raised at the same time ; but if the two be replaced, the latter will be observed to pass into the pelvis obliquely, over the lower end of the common iliac or beginning of the external. The position of the aorta should next attract attention ; at its bifurcation, which is usually opposite the upper margin of the fourth lumbar vertebra, it will be nearly in the mesial line,—perhaps a little to the left; and, if so, the right common iliac will be somewhat longer than its fellow ; the vena , cava will be on the right side of the artery, and not in very close contact with it; a quantity of condensed cellular fibres, mingled with branches of the sympathetic, and with lymphatic glands, may be noticed in contact with both vessels, more especially the aorta, and this vessel