DISSECTIONS. 24 7 should next be cut through within an inch of its attachment to the pelvis, and turned downwards and forwards; the handle of the knife with a few touches of the blade will readily separate it from the subjacent parts: the extensive attachment of the upper portion of the tendon of this muscle to the aponeurosis of the thigh should be noticed, and the large bursa under that part of the tendon which covers the trochanter major also deserves attention. The various important struc- tures under this muscle should now be examined. The loose cellular texture over the posterior margin of the gluteus medius should be raised, and, in order to get a complete view of the whole outer surface of this muscle, the portion of aponeurosis connected with it in front should be dissected off; the connexion between the two will be found most intimate. Immediately below the posterior margin of this muscle, the pyriformis will be observed; a little dissection will dis- play the latter through all its course outside of the pelvis; the point of the finger may be run between the two muscles, and at the upper extremity of the division the gluteal artery will be easily discovered. The course of the great sciatic nerve may next be examined. It will be found passing out of the pelvis under the pyriform muscle, extend- ing down the back of the thigh nearly in the mesial line. Some small branches of nerves will be found passing from under the pyri- formis at the same part; these come from the main trunk a little higher up, and proceed to the skin in the neighbourhood: the sciatic artery will also be found in the same situation. The gemelli muscles, the tendon of the obturator interims, and the quadratus femoris should next be displayed ; the conjoined head of the biceps and semi-tendi- nosus, and the semi-membranosus muscles, should also be made dis- tinct. The gluteus medius muscle should now be dissected from the os innominatum, when the gluteus minimus will be brought into view; a large branch of the gluteal artery will be found between these two muscles, and if a little dissection be made at its origin, a more perfect view of the main trunk, where it is passing out of the pelvis at the upper part of the sacro-sciatic notch, will be obtained. Lastly, the common pudic artery may be displayed on the posterior surface of the spinous process of the ischium, where it runs, for a space, outside of the pelvis. The hamstring muscles should now be cut through in the middle of the thigh, when the posterior surface of the adductor magnus will be more completely exposed; the attachments of this muscle to the pelvis and femur having been examined, and notice taken of the tendinous aperture through which the superficial femoral vessels pass, as well as of those smaller ones occupied by branches of the deep femoral, an incision may be made through the different textures sur- rounding the middle of the femur, and the bone divided with the saw. The upper half of the femur can now be conveniently moved at will, and the examination of the remaining anatomy of the hip should be completed. The large glutei muscles should be cut away, and the