.510 CHEST, ABDOMEN, AND PELVIS. raent is small, i. e. under a quarter of an inch diameter, it will not be troublesome to pass it ; but if it be larger than this, it will be well, before the puncture, to make an incision through the skin, about half an inch in length, which will greatly facilitate the entrance of the awkward point of the trochar. This is an operation which must probably be repeated very fre- quently on the same individual, and in future punctures the cicatrix of the preceding one may be selected, or, what will be better, the instru- ment may be passed a little higher or lower, at the will of the opera- tor. If he goes above the umbilicus, however, he must remember the proximity of the liver, which in such cases is often much enlarged ; and if he makes the wound nearer the pubes, he must be certain that the bladder is not over-distended. It is occasionally the custom to make the puncture in the linea semilunaris, about midway between the anterior spine of the ilium and the umbilicus ; but when this part is selected, it is usually in cases of ovarian dropsy, when the projection is of often more prominent on one side than the other. The proceed- ing in either place, and in cither disease, is so much alike, that I need not refer particularly to the latter. The orifice usually heals by the first intention, but sometimes the serum collects so rapidly again, that it bursts forth within a few hours, and continues to run for some days, until the wound closes by granulation. Ligature of the external iliac artery may be effected on any part of that vessel. Usually its lower third is selected, unless the sur- geon is obliged to reach the vessel higher up. The operation may be performed in the following manner: The patient being laid on a table, with his shoulders and knee slightly elevated, an incision about three inches and a half long (marked a on fig. 222,) should be made, about an inch above, and parallel with, Poupart’s ligament, one end being opposite the anterior superior spinous process, the other a little above the opening in the tendon of the external oblique : the skin, fascia, and superficial epigastric vessels being divided, the tendon just named should then be cut to a similar extent,—this being usually accomplished upon a director pushed under the texture through a small opening cautiously made, although there is no great occasion for such an instrument: now the lower margins of the internal oblique and transversalis must be look- ed for, and the point of the finger (or that of the director) being passed beneath them, they should be divided about half an inch upwards, when the fascia transversalis will be exposed, almost exactly over the inter- nal abdominal ring: a slight scratch with the nail or point of the knife will make an opening here, which may be extended by a kind of laceration so as to permit a view of the iliac fascia where it covers the psoas muscle, when the artery will be discovered on the soft brim of the pelvis, having perhaps a small twig of nerve in front of it, and covered by a thin layer of cellular tissue, forming a kind of sheath for it and the vein. The latter lies close upon the artery, and it will be best, after making a slight opening in the sheath, to insinuate the point of the needle from within outwards, so as to avoid the vein : the