212 THE SUPERIOR EXTREMITY. have been most difficult, and upwards of forty ligatures were requir- ed. In 1832, Dr. Warren removed the whole of this bone for a similar disease, and the proceeding, though very formidable, was not attended with such hemorrhage as in Mott’s case. No set rules further than those of the common principles of sur- geiy can be given for such operations. All those alluded to were evidently by the operators themselves deemed of the most formidable kind, and such, in my opinion, as should induce others of less ac- knowledged reputation and experience to weigh well all the circum- stances before resorting to the use of the knife. CHAPTER VIII. AMPUTATIONS. When the phalanges of the fingers or thumb are the seat of in- curable disease, amputation is generally performed, as excision of one of these bones, or a portion of it, would probably leave the remaining part of the member neither useful nor ornamental. Occasionally a small portion of carious or necrosed bone may be removed with ad- vantage, but amputation is most frequently resorted to. This ope- ration may be required for destruction of the soft parts, as well as of the bones, as exemplified in the effects of various forms of inflam- mation, constituting whitlow; in the growth of tumours, and those external injuries to which the fingers are particularly exposed. When a portion of a finger requires removal, the operation may be done either at a joint, or in the continuity of a phalanx. For the former, the best procedure, in my opinion, is to apply a long narrow- bladed bistoury to one side, then, after cutting the skin and lateral ligament, to carry it into the joint behind, by changing its position, then through the articulation and the textures, on the palmar aspect, so as to leave a sufficiency of soft parts to cover the extremity of the bone, and unite readily with those on the posterior surface. The drawing (fig. 108) shows the first position of the bistoury, and the dotted lines point out the course of the incisions and the size of the flaps. Perhaps that in the palmar aspect may appear somewhat too large, but here, as in many other situations it is seldom that the operator will find that he errs in leaving an excess of soft parts. The rag round the point of the finger may be supposed to cover the disease or injury for which the operation is required ; but it has been exhibited for the additional purpose of adding force to my recommendation that