THE INFERIOR EXTREMITY. 312 third: the first of these being similar to that which was done by Hunter, and the other like that recommended by Scarpa. In either instance the patient should be laid on his back, with the leg bent at the knee, and the thigh slightly rotated outward, and also bent upon the pelvis, so as to expose its inner and anterior surface. In the middle of the thigh a wound of three or four inches in length should be made parallel with the vessel, and nearly, therefore, in the same course as regards the sartorius muscle. The skin and subcuta- neous cellular texture being divided, the aponeurosis should be cut to the same extent, when the fibres of the sartorius will be brought into view ; its inner margin may next be turned outwards, as was done by Hunter, or its outer margin may be turned inwards, as has since been more recommended, and at the bottom of the space between the vastus internus and the adductor longus the vessel will be found: here it is covered by a slip of the tendon of the last-named muscle, which requires to be divided, when the vessel will be found in close contact with the vein, which, however, will probably be so completely behind as to escape observation : the saphenus nerve may be seen immedi- ately in front of the vessel, or, perhaps, it may be noticed ere the slip of the adductor has been cut, for it sometimes lies in front of this texture, and at other times in immediate contact with the artery. The point of the needle may be passed on either side of the vessel which the operator may find most convenient, and should, on all occa- sions be kept so close to it as not to endanger the vein. It has been said that, if this operation is done too near the aperture in the adductor magnus, there is a chance of coming in contact with the anastomotica magna, and, indeed, I have seen this vessel tied on the dead subject instead of the femoral, though I can scarcely imagine such a mistake occurring on the living body. This operation may be somewhat more difficult than some might suppose, for no particular guide can be given, unless it be the course of the fibres of the muscles. After the skin and fascia have been divided, and some muscular fibres exposed, it may be doubtful to which muscle they belong,—whether to the sartorius or the vastus: if to the latter, they will seem to run towards the inner side of the thigh; and if to the former, they will pass nearly in its long axis. If the thigh has been placed as directed, and the first incision has been made about the middle of its breadth, the sartorius will assuredly be the muscle, and the future incisions may be made on either margin at the will of the surgeon, or if he chooses he may divide the muscle entirely, though I would not recommend such a proceeding under ordinary circumstances. Whether it is from the comparative depth of the artery in this situ- ation, and also the comparative difficulty of the operation, or that the circumstances demanding such a proceeding are more rare, I will not attempt to determine, but it is beyond doubt that the artery is not so frequently tied in the middle of the thigh as in the upper part of its course. In the different instances in which I have known it secured