271 DISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP-JOINT. should now be fixed by its middle to the lower part of the thigh, (and here also, to prevent mischief to the skin, a few turns of a roller should be previously made round the limb,) and its ends should be joined by a firm knot. The cloth will most likely be too thick to be received into the hook of the pulley, and some smaller object, such as a towel, handkerchief, or bit of strong cord, should be linked on, to which the pulley may be fastened. Instead of a table-cloth for the thigh, an apparatus of iron and leather (the zonula of Hildanus) has been constructed for the purpose of giving attachment to the pulley; but I recommend in preference to either the skein of worsted spoken of at p. 166. When this is properly fastened by the clove-hitch (p. 153) to the thigh, a little above the knee, the hook of one pulley should be attached to it, and that of the other to some holdfast in the wall, directly opposite to the fixed extremity of the cloth under the perineum, in a line parallel with the long axis of the thigh, which will consequently cross obliquely that of the body, as seen in the drawing. I have recommended that the stay under the perineum should, at its extreme point, be fastened below the level of the hip, and that the end of the pulley most distant from the body should be fixed somewhat higher, in order that extension may be applied without disturbing the oblique line into which the femur has been thrown by the injury. The manner of fixing the two extremities of the whole apparatus is of more im- portance than some may imagine: thus, if that connected with the thigh is too low, when the extension is applied, the pelvis is forced to- wards the floor; and on the other hand, if too high, the trunk is actually raised from the mattress, so as to form, as it were, part of the cord between the two fixed points. Nothing can be more unpleasant than to perceive the body of the unfortunate patient swinging to and fro during the efforts of the surgeon ; but yet this condition is not so objectionable as the other. I prefer having the patient near the floor, but the same proceedings may be conducted on a firm table, in which case the fixed points must be high in proportion. In pri- vate practice it may be difficult to procure those fixed points in an apartment, and I must, therefore, beg attention to my remarks on this subject at the chapter on dislocations of the shoulder; indeed, so requisite do I consider these points d'appui, that the pulleys should not be considered complete without some such contrivance as the staple or screw, of either of which a couple should be as regular an accompani- ment of the pulleys as is the cord. In the theatre of a hospital the case is different; a variety of rings, placed in the walls at different heights and at different sides, are essential appendages, and I have not seen anything more ingenious for this purpose than the plan in King’s College Hospital, where two of the pillars at opposite sides of the area of the operating theatre are of iron, square in shape, and notched on one side ; a ring is attached to the pillar by means of a kind of sheath, which can be slid up or down at pleasure, and, being accurately fitted to fill up each or any