512 CHEST, ABDOMEN', AND FELV1S. ties seem to prefer keeping rather towards the crest of the ilium, so as to avoid the risk of opening the serous cavity ; for, although the latter has actually been done with impunity, (as happened to Mr. Tait,) there can be no doubt of the propriety of carefully protecting the mem- brane. Since 1796, when Abemethy first secured this vessel, the operation has been very frequently performed, and with such success, that the surgeon may undertake it with far greater confidence of a fortunate issue than in similar operations on other large arteries. It may be necessary to apply the ligature higher up than has been recommended ; and the only additional instructions required here for such an instance are, that the external wound should be placed half an inch or so higher, and that the peritoneum has to be more extensively stripped from the vessel, which lies somewhat deeper than at the lower third of its course. Since 1812, when Mr. Stevens of Santa Cruz first tied the internal iliac for supposed aneurism of the gluteal artery, the operation has been repeated in at least four different instances, in two of them with a fortunate issue, so that it has been successful in three examples out of five. The proceeding may be accomplished through the incisions last recommended, only it will be necessary to interfere with the peri- toneum still higher, and possibly it may be necessary to make a freer external wound. Half an inch or more of the vessel can thus be ex- posed, and with care the needle may be carried round it without danger to the vein, which lies behind and above. In 1827, Mott successfully applied a ligature to the common iliac artery for aneurism in the inguinal region. The operation had been performed once previously by Gibson in a case of gun-shot injury; but the patient died on the sixteenth day after. It has since been done by Crampton, Syme, Guthrie, Salomon, and other surgeons, with a degree of success sufficient to warrant its repetition in future in- stances, and the proceedings may be accomplished in the following manner:—A wound in the skin, from six to eight inches in length, should be made nearly parallel with the upper end of Poupart’s liga- ment and the crest of the ilium, and about an inch and a half nearer the mesial line than these parts : its lower end being from one to two inches below the anterior superior spinous process. The external and internal oblique, transversalis, and transversalis fascia being divided to a similar extent, the peritoneum must be stripped from the fascia iliaca towards the mesial line, and (the ureter with it) must be raised from the vessel to permit the point of the needle being carried round it, which should be done a little above its bifurcation. In the operation on the upper end of the external iliac, on the in- ternal, or in that last described, the fascia transversalis will be found of greater strength than at the internal abdominal ring, and will probably require a freer application of the knife than in the latter situation. The peritoneum will, in all likelihood, separate as rea- dily from the fascia iliaca and the front of the psoas muscle as it does