THE SUPERIOR EXTREMITY. 140 which, with the thumb, will be observed to be supplied with branches from the radial; the ulnar nerve, passing over the annular ligament on the ulnar side, of the artery, sending branches to the little finger and one side of the ring finger; the median nerve dividing at the lower margin of the annular ligament into branches which run to the thumb, fore, and middle, and radial side of the ring finger; and the flexor tendons. The further examination of the hand may be post- poned until the forearm has been dissected. The palm of the hand being placed downwards, an incision should be carried from a little above the external condyle of the humerus, down the middle of the posterior surface of the forearm, to join the centre of the cut across the wrist. The skin may then be dissected to each side. To reflect it sufficiently above, it may bo necessary to extend the incision a little further up the ami, or to make a transverse one. In raising this tissue, notice must be taken of the veins lying in the subcutaneous cellular membrane, which will be seen passing upwards and obliquely over the margin of the ami to join those on the anterior surface. These being of little surgical importance, with the fat and cellular membrane, may all be raised at the same time with the skin, so as to expose the aponeurosis. This part should next be examined. By cutting it through from its upper third down to the wrist, and dissecting it to each side, an idea of its strength and connexions may be formed ; and, by carrying the incision down to the back of the hand, the annular ligament may also be examined with a similar view. The muscles and tendons will now be observed to have been closely invested and bound down by this membrane. W ith the point of the finger or the handle of the scalpel these may next be separated from each other, as far up as possible without cutting through fibres, and as low down as to trace each tendon to the fingers. Those of the thumb may also be treated in the same manner. In raising the latter tendons a few transverse fibres must first be cut; and, be- fore doing so, the space between the first and second extensors should be cleared out, so as to lay bare (if this has not been sufficiently done already in the early stage of the dissection) the whole extent of the radial artery, as it is passing obliquely along the radial side of the wrist. On the back of the hand and forearm no artery of much sur- gical importance will be observed, unless it be the posterior interosseal in the arm, which is chiefly worthy of notice in the upper third of its course, where it lies in contact with the interosseal membrane. The anterior surface may next be turned upwards and examined. An incision should be commenced in the arm over the fleshy portion of the biceps, three or four inches above the elbow, and carried down to that across the fore part of the wrist; the skin should then be laid to each side, to meet the dissection on the posterior surface. This had better, however, be done at present only in the two lower thirds of the incision, so as to leave the parts in the upper third, viz., in front of the elbow, for after inspection. Between the skin and aponeurosis, various veins will be observed, witli some small twigs of nerves. The