THE SUPERIOR EXTREMITY. 204 met with a case of the kind ; hut Stromeyer has succeeded in the cure by dividing the tendon of the long flexor. In one instance I successfully divided the tendon of the flexor sublimis connected with the ring finger, and also that of the profundus, above the wrist, for permanent contraction of the part, and I have once seen the tendon of the palmaris longus cut across by subcutaneous incision, for a contraction of the wrist. Incisions may be required in various parts of the extremity for the removal of diseased or dead portions of bone, and, with few excep- tions (as the elbow and shoulder-joints), no set rules can be stated for such operations, further than those which must be apparent to any one at all acquainted with such matters. I must refer to my remarks on amputations of the metacarpal bones, as explanatory of my own views mi some of these points. A good anatomist and judicious surgeon may do much in some of these cases to obviate the necessity for amputation; but I doubt if there is much utility in practising on the dead body, resection of the lower ends of the bones of the fore- arm, or portions of their shafts. It is customary in what may be termed “dissecting-room surgery” to exhibit such operations; and drawings of healthy bones exposed with appropriate incisions, having also the chain saw passed under them, have been published on the subject; but these can give a very inadequate idea of anything like good surgery, applicable to the living body. The wrist joint has, however, been excised, (at all events, the end of the radius,) and portions of the shafts of one or other of the two bones have been removed with success. I have often myself, with the aid of the cutting forceps (p. 11), and gouge (p. 13), removed portions of the bones of the hand, wrist, and fore-arm, and seen others do the same; but in the latter region I have not seen any instances where resection of the entire thickness of a bone has been required, although in Edinburgh, where excisions may be said to have been much in vogue for many years, there would have been little hesitation in resorting to such a method, had favourable cases presented themselves. However, that such examples may occur has been proved by instances of the kind, which have been published by continental surgeons, and with a know- ledge of anatomy and of the principles of surgery, I see nothing to prevent any one resorting to a laudable attempt to save a patient’s hand. The bones composing the elbow-joint are frequently the seat of injury as well as of disease, requiring amputation in the arm. In some instances, however, the surgeon may most judiciously endea- vour to save the lower part of the member, by removing the injured or diseased portions of bone only. The operation of excision of the elbow-joint has been much more frequently practised of late years, and apparently with greater success than when it was first recom- mended towards the end of last century by Park and the Moreaus. At all events, the operation has now been so frequently performed with happy results, as to induce many surgeons of the present day to