EXCISION OF TONSILS. 467 predecessor, Mr. Arnott, has related (Med. Chirurg. Trans. Vol. XXII.) an instance, in which, by a similar proceeding, he successfully separated a very large part of the organ. A free opening was first made in the skin and other textures, and then ligatures were applied to cause strangulation and sloughing. The uvula sometimes requires that a portion of it should be removed. When from chronic elongation its point falls upon the epiglottis or upper orifice of the larynx, it excites troublesome cough and otherwise may do much harm ; and supposing that .astringent applications have proved of no avail, the patient being seated in a good light, his head secured on the back of a chair or held on the breast of an assistant, the free end should he seized with beaked forceps, a sharp hook or some such instrument, and then with a pointed bistoury or with scis- scors the apex should be removed. It is a good precaution to lay hold of the part previous to division, else it might drop into the larynx. The amygdala occasionally are permanently enlarged : the condition gives rise to difficulty of swallowing, sometimes even of breathing, change of voice, hoarseness, deafness, and other ailments, and in the event of constitutional remedies and local applications having proved of no service, either as regards the state of the mucous membrane or tonsils, then Fig. 213. a portion of one or of both glands should be removed. The proceeding may be ac- complished thus: —The patient, seated as in the former operation, should be desired to open the mouth as completely as possi- ble, when the swollen part should be seized with a volsellum with the claws set on one side of each blade as here represented, (fig. 213,) when, with a curved probe- pointed bistoury, (p. 67,) the requisite in- cision should be made between the claws and the side of the pharynx. The opposite tonsil must then, if required, be treated in the same manner. It will rarely happen that the bleeding does not cease in the course of a short time with the contact of the air and the use of cold water, or, in other instances the application of powdered alum. I have known a solution of creosote answer when the latter had produced no benefit. When the left side is the scat of opera- tion the surgeon can easily use the volsel- lum in his left hand and the bistoury in the right, but if the opposite tonsil is affected, unless he possesses more ambi-dexterity than most men, he may not so readily hold the