138 THE SUPERIOR EXTREMITY. the skin along the mesial line, from a little above the root of the finger to the apex. This texture, which will be found thicker and firmer than that on the posterior surface, should be laid on each side so as to meet the dissection already made, and thus it will be raised from the whole circumference of the finger. In this dissection the knife is carried through firm cellular substance, which is not easily divided, and considerable care is necessary to preserve the digital arteries and nerves, which will be found lying on each margin of the surface. With some care and picking, the parts will now present the following appearance:—an artery and nerve will be seen on each margin, and some dense transverse fibres will yet prevent the flexor tendons being distinctly observed. These fibres constitute the sheath of the flexor tendons. They may now be cut through along the mesial line, when they will be found remarkably firm in front of each phalanx, but nearly deficient over the joints. The tendons will now be exposed, and, if raised a little, it will be observed how completely they have been bound down by these transverse fibres upon the surface of each bone, which will present a slight concavity in its transverse direction. The vessels, sheath, and tendons may now be cut away, and each joint examined. It will be most convenient at present to limit the attention to the two joints in the finger itself, reserving the articula- tion between the first phalanx and metacarpal bone for after consider- ation. The examination of one joint will suffice. On each side a firm fibrous structure will be found, extending between the ends of the bones, constituting the lateral ligaments ; in front, a dense semi- cartilaginous texture will be observed; and behind, the synovial mem- brane,—loose when the finger is extended, and stretched when bent. The lateral ligaments will be observed to be closely connected with the outside of this membrane. The joint may now be cut into, and the articular surfaces carefully inspected. These will be remarked to be so fitted to each other, as not to allow, when in apposition with the finger extended, the edge of a bistoury to be carried between them without coming in contact with two points on the proximal, and one on the distal phalanx. The thumb may next be dissected according to the above directions, and, saving the difference in size and absence of a phalanx, the parts will vary but little in appearance. The back of the hand may now be examined. An incision should be carried through the skin across the posterior surface of the wrist from one margin to the other; another should be made from the mid- dle of this one, down the hand, to join the upper part of that made on the middle finger. A flap should next be laid towards each margin of the hand, and, in doing this, the skin must be cut across over the knuckles of the three fingers which have not yet been dissected. In raising the skin, several veins of some magnitude will be seen in the loose subjacent cellular texture, and also twigs of nerves, branches of the radial and ulnar, running towards the fingers, where they are so small as in all probability to have escaped notice in the dissection