OPERATIONS ON THE LIPS. 461 of course, however, it should not be used unless the bleeding shows no disposition to stop. In double hare-lip the lines of incisions, such as may in ordinary cases be required, are indicated in figure 211 ; but there will often be occasion for the surgeon to exercise his ingenuity and skill. Some- times the centre slip is so narrow, and so thin from before back- wards, that it may be well to remove it altogether ; at other times it may be advantageously carried upwards and slightly backwards, so as to increase the length of the columna, which is often, in this species of malformation, so short, as to add greatly to the flatness of the nose, which is sometimes very conspicuous ; in other instances it may be cut in the form of a slender wedge, which, while it separates the lips above, does not extend too far down to prevent them from coming into contact at the mouth. The alaj in the double fissure are usually so flat, that, in addition to the shortness of the columna already referred to, the nose can seldom be made such a prominent feature as when there is only a single fissure; but even in the latter it is occasionally difficult to make both sides symmetrical. Some authorities have re- commended that in the operation for double fissure only one should be operated upon at a time, and that the second proceeding should not be attempted till the lapse of some weeks at least. It seems to me, however, that the plan of closing both on the same occasion is de- cidedly to be preferred. In all the operations for hare-lip which I have myself performed, whether single or double, I have never had reason to regret having cut away too much, but occasionally have wished afterwards that I had not been so sparing of the margins. This is mentioned for the sake of the young operator, who may probably feel, as I myself did, that he may not be able to bring the edges in sufficiently close apposition : on this score, however, he need be in no dread. If the needles are properly used, there is no necessity either for straps or bandages to keep the cheeks forwards; and though occasionally a strap may be advantageously applied after the removal of the pins, to support the tender adhesions, even this may be dispensed with in many cases. It will, however, in general be judicious to protect the wound for a time in the latter way. The period of life which I think most eligible for these operations is shortly after the child has ceased to suck, provided it seems in good health, and suffers in no way from teething. If he is allowed to grow up, he is usually very unmanageable until after the age of puberty ; but if possible the malformation should always be put right before this time, as there is a better chance of the jaw and nose as- suming a good shape than after they have arrived at their full de- velopment. Indeed, there are o many advantages besides these,— as to speaking, appearance, &c., that it is wonderful why any surgeon can recommend delay in such cases after the first or second year of life. The proceeding may be effected at an earlier period ; I have myself operated at three months, and have in other instances seen the