403 LARYNGOTOMY. TRACHEOTOMY. if the patient is fat, muscular, short-necked, and unsteady, there may be great trouble in the operation. The isthmus of the thy- roid gland is generally more or less in the way, but unless it be enlarged there will seldom be much trouble from the bleeding, which may result from its division : if there were sufficient room below to keep clear of it I should certainly do so, but it should always be borne in mind, that in avoiding this evil and getting nearer the sternum, others of a more serious nature are encountered:—the sub- cutaneous veins increase in size towards the root of the neck, and if wounded low down the blood might regurgitate from them : possibly the left vena innominata might be in the way, although this is not likely, for it is generally below the level of the upper margin of the bone: the arteria innominata, or the right or left carotid may, as already referred to at p. 398, be so high in the neck as to be in danger. Hence then the propriety of passing the point of the finger to the bottom of the wound to protect the parts in this situation, and also the wise precaution of introducing the point of the kinfe with the back nearest the sternum and cutting upwards; for, hy these pro- ceedings, although the edge of the instrument may come in contact with the thyroid gland, it is the least of the evils that have been under consideration. The necessity for keeping in the mesial line cannot be too carefully attended to: in the upper part of the trachea, a slight deviation may endanger one of the lobes of the thyroid, from, which the bleeding would assuredly be much more copious than from the isthmus. In an instance occurring in my own practice, where the patient, a short stout-necked female, was remarkably unruly, I got a little to one side and the bleeding was very copious. In the lower part of the neck the danger may even be greater, for the carotids lie closer to the tube than towards its upper end. A case has been mentioned by Desault in which the carotid was opened, and where of course death ensued. I have seen Tracheotomy performed when probably half an ounce of blood did not escape ; but in most of the instances which have come under my notice the hemorrhage has been remarkably free. Sometimes this has apparently arisen from the inflamed state of the textures over the tube, in other instances from the distension of the smaller veins, produced by the derangement in respiration, and occa- sionally from the vascular condition of the mucous membrane. A variety of circumstances must guide the surgeon in giving pre- ference to one or other of these operations, — in selecting a place at which to open the trachea, and in the manner of conducting the proceedings. As already stated, there are few reasons in favour of Laryngotomy, and, excepting the suspicion that a foreign substance is impacted between the vocal chords, I know of no other inducement to select this proceeding in preference to Tracheotomy,—unless, indeed, it be that the crico-thyroid membrane is more superficial than the trachea. Cherry-stones, plum-stones, kernels of fruit, beans, kidney-beans,