FRACTURES OF THE FEMUR. 295 that degree of extending force which is of service in preventing retrac- tion. t have used both plans, and with fair success; but, notwith- standing Mr. Pott’s very ingenious and often-quoted arguments in favour of the bent position, I give a decided preference to the straight in most fractures of the thigh-bone, and to the use of such an apparatus as shall keep all steady from the loins downwards, and at the same time permit of that continued extending force being applied, which I deem of so much consequence in all fractures of the thigh showing the least tendency to displacement and shortening. The splint of Desault, so particularly recommended by Boyer for continued extension in the lower extremities, furnishes the means of accomplishing all these objects, and the simple modification of this ma- chine, which has been so strongly and ably advocated by Mr. Liston, will be found equally efficacious. The former, with its shoe, accom- panying smaller splints and pillows, is somewhat cumbrous, and even complicated :—the latter has scarcely any of these objections, and hav- ing used it, and seen it used most extensively for the last ten years, I have no hesitation in giving it the preference. The splint consists of a piece of wood similar to that referred to at p. 286, but longer, and, it may be, broader and stouter, according to the bulk of the limb on which it is to be placed: it ought to reach from the last rib four inches beyond the foot: a pad of folded cloth, or cushion of horse- hair, should extend along one side nearly its whole length. The fracture being set, coaptation properly produced, and the patient ex- tended on a hard mattress, the splint, with the cushion next the skin, should be laid along the outer side of the broken limb; then, with some turns of a roller, the foot and ankle should be fastened to the notched extremity below, the surgeon taking care that the limb is in a natural position, with the toes turned neither too much out nor in (the appearance of the other foot always guiding him in this respect); next a folded handkerchief, with perhaps a little tow or hair wrap- ped up in it, to prevent its galling the skin, should be so applied, that, whilst its centre rests in the perineum, one end passes under the hip and the other in front, both meeting at the two openings in the upper end of the splint: when passed through these, a noose should be cast, and, by tightening it, the splint, with the lower part of the limb—which has already been fixed to the board by the bandage round Fig. 162.