THE HEAD AND NECK. 4(30 In the person of older growth, a sitting posture will be equally convenient; and here the surgeon may stand behind or in front of the patient, as he may choose. I myself prefer the former, being thus less exposed to the spluttering. On all occasions the knife should be in- troduced at the part nearest the nostril, for the lip will thereby be kept perfectly steady as the instrument is carried downwards. Some- times, to secure the latter object, the margins at the mouth are grasped between the thumb and forefinger by the surgeon or an assistant, as may be most convenient, and thus at the same time the labial arteries are prevented from bleeding. It is seldom, indeed, that the hemor- rhage from these gives any trouble ; no time need be lost in at- tempting to suppress it by cold or by ligature; for if the lowermost needle is passed in close contact with each bleeding orifice, the pres- sure of the opposed surfaces will effectually stem it. Two or three, or sometimes four needles (as I have found necessary) will be required, according to the length or depth of the wound. Some operators have chosen scissors for cutting the edges of such fissures, and others have used a piece of wood or horn, on which the lip has been laid, and pared with a bold stroke of the scalpel ; but for my own part, I prefer the mode above recommended. Unless the lip is transfixed, it will be difficult to keep it steady in any other way: the action of the orbicularis, the levatores, and the zygomatici, is often such as to pull the lip from between the fingers, scissors, or off the piece of board ; whereas if the bistoury is dexterously used in the manner described, the action referred to rather adds to the facility with which the incision can be made, by drawing the parts in some degree against the sharp edge. The dotted lines in the accompanying cut (fig. 210) point out the course of the incisions in an ordinary case of this kind,—a single tis- Fiy. 210. Frj. 211. sure. Occasionally it may be necessary to extract one of the teeth, or perhaps two, to permit the edges being brought together ; and in rarer instances a small portion of the jaw requires to be removed, with the cutting forceps. If this latter step be taken with young children, a heated iron should be in readiness, as possibly a vessel in the osseous texture may bleed more freely than might be desired in such patients ;