206 THE SUPERIOR EXTREMITY. Fig. 104. of service in scooping away small a table, with his face downwards, or be seated on a chair ; the former position insures greater steadiness on his part, and I have seen it most frequently preferred, but the latter I have myself selected, as I think the operator can so move the arm as to enable him to inspect the ends of the bones more accurately than whilst the patient is kept on his face. I believe, however, that the position of the patient is of less moment than some seem to imagine. Whichever attitude is fixed upon, the arm and fore-arm should be firmly held by an assistant; then if the extent of the disease is not supposed to be great, a crucial incision should be made directly over the olecranon ; but if, on the contrary, a free exposure of the parts be deemed requisite, the other incision (fig. 103), represented on the last page, which is similar in shape to that made by Moreau in his first operation, should be selected. On raising the flaps, which should consist of the entire thickness of the skin, as well as the condensed and infiltrated cellular texture underneath, the olecranon process will be laid bare: in cutting on its inner margin, the ulnar nerve must be carefully preserved from injury, which can be best done by dissecting it out of its position behind the internal con- dyle at this stage of the operation, and holding it aside with a blunt hook during the future steps ; the attachment of the triceps should next be divided, and the cutting forceps used to separate the olecranon from the ulna. The surgeon will now be enabled to appreciate the condition of the articular surfaces more clearly than heretofore, and will be guided in his future steps by the apparent extent of disease, lie may now, with the forceps, divide the remaining portion of the upper end of the ulna, the head of the radius, and whatever part of the humerus he may deem necessary. In the adult the saw may be requisite for the latter purpose, but in a young patient there is no difficulty in effecting this object with the instrument recommend- ed, and occasionally the gouge may be spots of the carious surface which cannot be reached by either forceps or saw. These portions of bone (fig. 104) have been preserved to show the piece- meal manner in which the operation may be accomplished. One of the fragments is the olecranon, the other a portion of one of the condyles of the humerus, and both are in a state of caries. In the case in which I re- moved them, various smaller portions were also cut and picked away, and the patient, a boy about fourteen years of age, made an excellent recovery. In some instances the lateral liga- ments must be cut through, to allow