488 THE HEAD AND NECK. however, very different from those which characterize what may be called the modem operation. Instead of cutting into the mass, the surgeon now usually cuts beyond the disease, just as when he is removing a malignant growth elsewhere ; for, although he may feel assured that, strictly speaking, the disease must be so, he generally acts as if it were, more especially as in many instances it may be dif- ficult to decide the question, and accordingly then he selects for divi- sion the processes of bone on the circumference of the tumour, and thus removes the whole, or the greater part of the maxilla at the same time. Dupuytren claimed to be the first to propose and execute this operation, but beyond a doubt it was first performed in this country by Mr. Lizars in 1826: since then it has been frequently repeated by our own countrymen, and in all parts of the world where surgery is cultivated. M. Gensoul’s name also stands high in the modern history of the proceed- ing ; but such operations have now been so often and so successfully accomplished,that I need not refer to other names on the present occasion. I believe that there are few matters of importance which have been omitted in this section on the Head and Neck. Of what is usually called Dental Surgery I have made no especial mention; nor have I dwelt at much length either upon the Eyes or Ears, as the treatment of the affections of these organs is in many respects deemed each a se- parate department of surgery ; and what I have omitted otherwise may, I imagine, be easily understood by any one versed in a knowledge of anatomy, and the principles of surgery. For example, chiefly in conse- quence of the arrangement followed with reference to the face, I have had no proper opportunity of making allusion to division of the branches of the fifth pair of nerves as they issue from the respective foramina above and below the orbit, and on the chin. Any one ac- quainted with anatomy can have no difficulty in effecting such proceed- ings by subcutaneous incisions, and a knowledge of pathology and sur- gery will sanction the use of the knife, when it is found that the pain- ful disease, tic-douloureux, resists all other means. Indeed, the affec- tions of the nerves in this situation appertain so much to the practice of physic, that I have almost purposely omitted any notice of them.. To show, however, the student the value of a correct knowledge of anatomy, whether he intends to be physician or surgeon, I shall, be- sides recommending to his attention Sir Charles Bell’s work on the subject, refer to a case which has lately been in King’s College Hospi- tal, under the care of my colleague, Dr. Todd. The patient had lost all power of raising the upper eyelid on one side (the affection termed ptosis), and in addition had no power in moving the eyeball, excepting in performing abduction of the organ. Here one ignorant of the groundwork of pathology, anatomy, would have been totally unable to account for the lively action in this direction, when a first year’s stu- dent might perceive that, whilst there was an affection of the third pair of nerves, as indicated by the paralysis of three of the recti and levator palpebrm muscles, the sixth retained its functions, and gave power to the external rectus.