86 HOSPITAL GANGRENE. PHAGEDENIC GANGRENE. burgh, some years ago, without any apparent cause, many sores in the hospital became affected with actions which, in some respects, re- sembled those of Hospital Gangrene. Healthy-looking ulcers suddenly lost their red colour, and became of an ashy hue,—the granulations having seemingly lost all vitality: then several patches sloughed, whilst ulceration extended and widened the breach of surface. There are few remedies, either external or internal, which have not been made use of in these phagedaenic sores, but their effects have been very equivocal. As local applications, caustics seem to have been produc- tive of most benefit; the arsenical solution, acetic, muriatic, and nitric acids, have all been used, mixed with water in the form of lotions, or applied undiluted to the surface : nitrate of silver, caustic potash, cor- rosive sublimate, even the actual cautery, have been had recourse to : again and again have they, individually, been applied to the same sore, until at last the granulations have assumed a healthy aspect: during the same period many of these remedies, in appropriate doses, have been used internally; cinchona and other tonics have been given, mercury has been tried also, though it has been deemed a dangerous medicine in such cases, as being likely to encourage the sloughing; change of food, change of air, and generally all such means as common prudence, combined with professional knowledge, might dictate, have been recommended and adopted;—sometimes with the apparent effect of arresting the disease; often, however, with no good result,—the sloughing and ulceration still extending, until the constitution has sunk under the continued irritation, or probably sudden death has en- sued, from the opening of a large artery. In many instances, when the disease has ceased, I have often thought that time, and the natu- ral changes in the system, have produced as much good as any imme- diate means that may have been used; nevertheless, I should not con- sider any one justified in leaving such cases alone to nature : a judi- cious practitioner may often see opportunities of being of service, wpre it in no other way than cleanliness regarding the dressings, or in the exhibition of stimulants to support the sinking powers of life. I be- lieve that there are few instances in which both constitutional and local means of treatment will not be had recourse to, and the latter must at all times be more or less in requisition. It is long since Mr. Blackadder proved the disease to be of a local nature at first; and, as in more modern times, the opinion seems to gain ground, that this and many other external affections are of a like character, the pro- priety of destroying the affected surface at an early period should be carefully kept in view. When the disease has seemingly changed its destructive character, and when healthy granulations cover the surface, the same kind of treatment as that required for healthy sores arising from other causes, (such as have already been described,) should be re- sorted to.