345 AMPUTATIONS OF TOES. Fig. 181. If more than one metatarsal bone is affected, I am doubtful, for the reasons above alluded to, if a longitudinal separation should be re- sorted to, and should be more inclined to perform a partial amputation in a transverse line, thereby removing the whole of the toes whether diseased or not. Sometimes the tarsus is so extensively affected, that there need be no doubt about its entire removal; and in such cases, according to the current doctrines of the day, the surgeon has the election of dividing the foot at the junction of the metatarsus with the tarsus, in the manner recommended by Mr. Hey, or still further back, between certain bones of the tarsus, in accordance with the proposal of Chopart. In partial amputation for disease of the metatarsal bones Mr. Hey at first removed the skin so extensively that no adequate covering was left for the remaining portion of the foot, and many months elapsed before the large surface cicatrized. He afterwards preserved a suf- ficiency of soft parts from the upper and lower aspects of the foot to make a good stump, and, as he has himself remarked, “ though the metatarsal bones, which had been removed, are usually about three inches in length, yet the mutilated foot was but one inch shorter than the sound foot, measuring from the heel to the root of the little toe.” I cannot say that in the instances which have come under my notice, the length of the foot has been so nearly perfect; but I can speak in unqualified praise of the advantages of the operation over the more extensive mutilation of amputation above the ankle. As in most other operations, there are various ways of performing this one. The method I recommend is as follows: the lower part of the leg should rest on the margin of a strong table, and the ankle should be firmly grasped by the hands of an assistant: the surgeon should then endeavour to make out the projection of the proximal end of the meta- tarsal bone,—especially that of the little toe, and, if possible, the in- ternal cuneiform, and with a strong bistoury should begin an incision a little behind one or other of these points, carry it forwards on the margin