FRACTURES OF THE CRANIUM. 420 pecially if there is a portion of bone depressed: the finger must be introduced into the wound, should a glance not suffice; and if it should be deemed necessary to facilitate the examination, the orifice in the scalp may be enlarged with a bistoury. In the instance where there is no external aperture in the scalp, should symptoms of compression supervene, or should it for other reasons be thought necessary to ascertain if fracture exists, the surgeon may be fully entitled to make an incision, and to proceed with the examina- tion as he would in a case of compound fracture. By such a practice, it will be perceived that he violates, as it were, one of the standard rules of surgery, which inculcates the necessity of avoiding the ex- posure of the ends of fragments in cases of simple fracture ; but here the circumstances are different from what obtains in other parts of the body,—it is not the compound fracture which is to be dreaded, but the injury on the contents of the cranium. Supposing the case to be palpably one of fracture, and even fracture with depression, the practice need not differ from that which I have already alluded to, unless peculiar symptoms evince themselves; but the necessity for watching the patient should not be forgotten; if there is any occasion on which additional care on the part of the practitioner is necessary, this is an instance; and should any sym- ptoms either of compression or of inflammation exhibit themselves, then he must resort to the appropriate modes of treatment. It some- times happens that, combined with an open wound in the scalp, there is a comminuted fracture, and several portions of bone lie almost loose on the surface: here, I think, there need not be a doubt about the propriety of removing these fragments, as they can only act as sources of irritation, which may produce dangerous consequences on the dura mater. I should consider it highly culpable to leave fragments in this condition ; and should scarcely have urged the necessity for the prac- tice, had I not seen them allowed to remain in such a state, and thus, in all likelihood, promoting the fatal event which ensued. If there be a wound in the integument, it must be treated as one would be in another part; it may be stitched, strapped, or poulticed, according to circumstances. Whether there is an opening or not, it is an almost invariable custom to apply cold; but should suppuration threaten externally, I should often prefer a poultice, under the im- pression that this process would counteract any suspected excess of vascular action within. Undoubtedly, according to established cus- tom, I should always apply cold at first in these cases; but I should certainly place most of my faith in other measures, more likely, in my opinion, to avert or subdue deep-seated inflammation. In all severe injuries of the scalp or cranium, one of the first measures should be to have the hair around taken off, and in general it will be best at once to have the whole head shaved. In a case of compound fracture with depression, although symptoms of compression should not be present, T should deem it proper practice to elevate the piece of bone, provided that could be done without