CHEST, ABDOMEN, AND PELVIS. 530 Suppuration in the vicinity of the anus may he treated according to those general principles contained in the chapter on abscess in the first part of this volume. This is one of those instances where the practi- tioner should make an opening at an earlier period than he might pos- sibly deem necessary in many other parts; for if an external incision be not soon made, the matter may perhaps burst into the rectum, and thus the case may become more complicated. Under almost any cir- cumstances, the sac of the abscess is likely to pass into that condition termed sinus, when the treatment may be such as is recommended in the chapter on this subject. It will rarely happen that the sinus (here technically termed fistula in ano) does not require to be laid open. Occasionally such cavities close spontaneously, but it much more frequently happens that the aperture remains patent, and con- tinues to discharge a thin matter, which keeps the patient’s linen con- stantly in a filthy condition, unless he wears some covering upon the part. Sometimes the end of the sinus closes for a time, and the patient fancies himself cured ; but ere long an uneasy sensation, perhaps throb- bing, is felt in the vicinity, and at last the cicatrix bursts, and the dis- charge becomes as copious as before. The opening may be single, dou- ble, or more ; it may be on the skin or mucous membrane ; or possibly the sums may open both on the skin and gut. Sometimes two open- ings will run into one sinus, and in other instances several fistuke may exist around the anus. The external end of the sinus may be close to this aperture,—an inch off, or even two or three,—it may be towards the scrotum or in the direction of the sacrum, but is most fre- quently at one side, and usually about midwayr between the anus and tuber ischii. The opening in the mucous surface may' be close on the verge, or it may be high within the rectum. Some authors have as- serted that the inner opening is never beyond an inch from the anus— it rarely is; but I have myself laid open a sinus as high up as the blade of a bistoury would reach, and have often treated cases at inter- mediate distances. In one instance, then, as may be perceived, the length and thickness of parts between the fistula and the gut will be considerable, whilst in another the partition will be short and thin,— perhaps not more than the thickness of the gut itself,-—nay, even the mucous lining; for occasionally' matter will so burrow between the muscular fibres and the latter membrane as to establish a fistula, and one which is more apt to be overlooked than those of a conspicuous kind. The operation for fistula may be performed thus:—The patient should lean over the margin of a bed, table, or back of a stout chair, and the surgeon should seat himself sufficiently low to get a clear view of the perineum: he should then introduce the end of a probe- pointed bistoury (p. 07) through the external opening, and push it slowly along the sinus until it reaches its upper extremity; then the point of the fore-finger of the left hand, smeared with oil, should be passed into the anus, and if the instrument has not yet penetrated the gut, he should cause it to do so, either through the