EXCISIONS OF THE SCAPULA AND CLAVICLE. 211 injured or diseased bone being removed, the flap should be laid down, and the edges stitched. If matters go on favourably after- wards, the wound heals kindly ; and though the part may be stiff, as indeed it will most likely be, there is such free play of the scapula and clavicle, and of the articulations below, that a very useful extre- mity remains. I have seen some admirable results from this ope- ration, but, like other excisions, some judgment is required in dis- criminating the cases to which it is applicable. In contemplating an operation of this kind, previously to its per- formance, the surgeon ought not to limit himself to one mode of pro- cedure; but should rather, trusting to his anatomical and manipulative skill, adapt his measures to the peculiarities of the case: he may make the flap above described more to the back part of the joint in one in- stance than in another ; he may make a kind of square-shaped flap, thus (fig. 107), one incision in front of the articulation, the other behind, both being united above by a trans- verse division of the deltoid a few lines below the acromion. A flap, four inches in breadth and three in length, as was made by the elder Moreau, can then be turned down, or, by making the transverse incision in short, the surgeon has the option of cutting any where, and in any direction, over a most extensive surface where he need not dread coming in contact with any large vessel or nerve,—the axillary plexus being so completely out of the course of all reasonable incisions, that if he is weak or ignorant enough to have a doubt on the latter subject, he will best display his remaining stock of wisdom by not interfering with the case at all. It will seldom happen that excisions are required in either scapula or clavicle. In the latter bone I have referred elsewhere to an in- stance in which, after a compound fracture, I removed various loose fragments. In 1819 Mr. Liston removed avascular growth situated chiefly below the transverse spine of the scapula, and with it three-fourths of the bone. The bleeding is described as having been frightful. The scapula has even been more extensively attacked than in this case— the whole bone having been removed, and the superior extremity with it. In 1837, Mott removed nearly the whole of the clavicle for an osteosarcoma, the size of a “ couple of fists.” The operation was said to below, the flap may be turned upwards. A recommended by Sabatier, a ,—or lines thus