THE HEAD AND NECK. ■133 together by a single stitch, when it will be brought against the orb at once, and if union occurs (which it almost invariably does) the affection is then more speedily cured than in any other way. The part removed includes a portion of the cartilage. The operation may be done either with a sharp-pointed bistoury or with scissors, such as those described by Maunoir, and, I need scarcely add, that the needles and threads for the sutures in these proceedings on the eyelids should be finer than might be used in most other parts of the body. If the ectropium results from scars on the neighbouring parts, it will seldom happen, that much benefit will be conferred by surgical interference. It is, however, in such instances that the surgeon is most anxious to exhibit the resources of his art, as the condition, besides its unseemly appearance, is productive of great annoyance and much injury to the eyeball; for, in consequence of the constant ex- posure, the conjunctiva becomes affected with chronic inflammation, and the cornea itself at last loses its transparency. Attempts have been made to put matters right by dividing the cicatrices, wherever tlie}'' seemed to prevent the eyelid assuming its proper place. After severe burns such trials have been made, but usually with little or no benefit; for, as the wounds have healed, the granulations have by their contractions brought the parts again into their previous mal-condition. In such instances a portion of skin might be raised from some neigh- bouring healthy part, twisted round, and laid in the gap of the wound at the cicatrix, so as to make up the deficiency occasioned by the original loss of substance. Such a plan has occasionally proved of benefit. I have often seen operations done in examples of this kind, and have myself occasionally performed them; but although I must admit that benefit has sometimes resulted, I must say, that in many instances I should not be very sanguine of any happy results. Tumours are a more common cause for the use of the knife here: encysted steatomes are often met with, but frequently the contents of the cysts are thinner : sometimes a fluid of the consistence of cream is found within them, and now and then small hairs, similiar to eye- lashes, project from their inner surface : in one instance the growth seems more in contact with the skin or mucous membrane than in another, and occasionally the bulk is such that it comes equally close to both surfaces. When a cyst is small and close upon the mucous lining a cure may sometimes be effected by opening it with a lancet carried through that texture. For this purpose the eyelid must be everted in this way : A probe should he laid horizontally upon it above or below, according to the lid affected (the upper is the usual seat of such tumours) : then the eyelashes should be seized between the forefinger and thumb, and partly by pulling them and by pressing in a proper direction against the margin the mucous surface is everted, when a lancet can be thrust into the cyst and its contents squeezed out. The lid may then be re- stored to its natural position. Possibly a collection may again form, and it may then be treated in a similar manner; but, in addition, the