3G CHAPTER V. INCISIONS. It would be impossible, or, at all events, a useless proceeding, to lay down any set of rules, to which the dissector or surgeon is to give a strict adherence, in practising dissections and operations on the dead or living body. I do not intend in this work to describe what may be done on such occasions, but shall now, as in the after parts of the work, content myself with stating what I consider the best methods of procedure, and from time to time referring to such modi- fications and circumstances as I consider worthy of being noticed. These remarks are, for the purpose of this introduction, very apposite to the subject of incisions, about which so many different directions have been given : indeed, it is no trifling task to study the various lines of incisions, and the different positions for holding the knife whilst making them, which have been described by some authors. To the practised dissector, who of necessity must be familiar with anatomy, such directions are of little service; the different move- ments of the hand and knife, and the different incisions, are done by him instinctively, as it were; and they are in some respects still less ser- viceable to him who is ignorant of anatomy. It is not merely by hold- ing a knife in a certain position, or making an incision of a definite length or form on the surface of the body, that an operation is to be per- formed : unless a person has a competent familiarity with the structures under the surface, he will do well not to interfere with cutting opera- tions, and I cannot avoid stating here my decided aversion to the me- thod of teaching how to find certain parts,—arteries, for example,—by drawing lines on the surface of the body. With few exceptions, the system is a bad one ; for no sooner is an incision made than the line is in a manner lost, and the incision itself may inadvertently be drawn to one side or the other, by the surgeon or by an assistant, so as to be completely off the parts over which it was originally made. Un- doubtedly a knowledge of the appearance of textures is of infinitely more value to the operator; and he who can distinguish each by the touch and sight (which can be properly done by him only who has had a previous course of dissections), may satisfy himself, that he is possessed of that legitimate knowledge, which alone ought to embol- den him to operate on the living body. Notwithstanding these observations, I deem it necessary, in a work of this kind, to make a few general remarks on those incisions that are in most frequent use; and also, as I shall do in the progress of the work, to describe the most approved incisions for each operation.