ANEURISM BY ANASTOMOSIS. 113 CHAPTER XXV. ANEURISM BY ANASTOMOSIS. Aneurism by anastomosis is, in most respects, so essentially differ- ent from the other kinds of aneurism, that the treatment requires some separate notice, more especially in this part of my work, as it is a dis- ease which may occur in any part of the body, and the general prin- ciples of treatment are, under ordinary circumstances, alike applicable to all. The peculiar characters of this disease seem to have been first clearly pointed out by John Bell, whose descriptions of it are so accu- rate that little of importance has been added since his time. He ima- gined, that it consisted of enlarged arteries and veins, communicating freely by cells of the cellular tissue; but most pathologists of the pre- sent day agree, that what he considered cells, are merely dilated and tortuous vessels, inosculating directly with each other, and my own in- vestigations lead me to acquiesce in the latter view. Some years since, I had occasion to amputate the foot for a large aneurism by anastomosis : on injecting it afterwards, the fluid (rather a coarse one) passed rapidly from the arteries into the veins, by direct con- tinuity, and the dissection, which was made by my assistant at the time, Mr. Stephen Stanley, now of the Royal Navy, showed several large points of communication. The preparation is in the Museum at King’s College. » Mr. Bell, in his descriptions, makes allusion to the resemblance which the disease has to the erectile tissues, such as the penis and gills of the turkey-cock. He gave it the name of Aneurism from Anastomosis ; but recently, from the example of Dupuytren and others, it has often been called the Morbid Erectile Tissue. The terms nsevus, and subcutaneous nmvus, have often been used of late years, too, but I fear with some degree of confusion. I know of little or no physical difference between the disease described by Mr. Bell, and that spoken of by Mr. Wardrop, under the name of subcutaneous nasvus, but be- tween the latter and the naivus maternus there are important distinc- tions, and it is a pity, I think, that these two terms should, in some degree, have been confounded, and applied, as they often are, to one and the same disease: the mother’s mark being, in reality, only a red or bluish appearance, occasioned by a peculiar arrangement, perhaps even enlargement, of the vessels of the skin, showing no tendency to increase, and being in nowise dangerous, or even troublesome ; whilst the subcutaneous nmvus has all the symptoms, properties, and dangers of the disease originally described by Mr. Bell, under the title of Aneurism from Anastomosis. This disease may be treated by local measures, or by a mode similar to the Hunterian operation. In the first of these methods.