449 CHAPTER VII. OPERATIONS ON THE NOSE AND NOSTRILS. The skin of the nose in some individuals increases so much in thickness as to become a prominent swelling (Lipoma) which, besides its unseemly nature, causes great annoyance from its size and weight, for sometimes the top of the organ becomes so large that the possessor cannot see straight before him without turning the head to one side, and can neither eat nor drink without being obliged to hold the offending part out of the way. Such a condition may be easily reme- died by paring away the redundant material, and leaving only the carti- lages and some condensed cellular texture upon them. The wound in such a proceeding must heal by granulation ; and, provided that neither too much nor too little has been taken away, a most respectable looking feature may still be left. Sometimes the morbid growth is entirely on the apex, at other times on one ala, and it is seldom otherwise than of a most ruddy hue. No rules need be given about such proceedings : the thickened parts may be dissected off in one mass or piecemeal, at the convenience of the operator : the finger should be introduced into the nostril to keep the surface steady, and at all times a good deal of bleeding may be expected, which will, however, cease with the appli- cation of cold. Mr. Hey has related the history of a case of this kind, and among modern surgeons I believe that Mr. Liston has had a full proportion of such operations. A deficiency of this organ is of more common occurrence than a redundancy, and, unlike the latter,—-which among certain novelists, poets, and poetasters, has been rather a theme of admiration; its ap- pearance is generally so unpleasant that the individual who has been unfortunate enough to be “ curtail’d of this fair proportion,” whether by disease, accident, or otherwise, is usually willing and anxious to submit to whatever may be thought likely to improve his facial aspect. It may be a question with both patient and surgeon in what manner this can be done,—whether it shall be by means of some artificial substitute of wax, wood, ivory, pasteboard, or other material, or that it shall be effected by a kind of transplantation of skin from a neighbouring part. If the latter is preferred, the surgeon is more im- mediately interested, as the work of restoration lies entirely with him. Supposing that the apex and ala; have been completely destroyed, or have sunk in such a manner that they cannot again be raised, a sub- stitute for them may be made in the following manner :—The patient being seated, the surgeon first takes a portion of soft leather and cuts 2 G