525 HERNIA. OPERATIONS. In relieving the stricture in either crural or inguinal hernia, the utmost care should be taken to avoid injuring the con- tents of the sac. I have known the point of the bistoury thrust into the bowel in attempting to pass it within the stricture, and in the crural protrusion there is consi- derable danger of committing this error, un- less great caution be used. If the tumour is large, or if the stricture is deeply seated, the bowels are apt to turn up over the fin- ger when the bistoury is on its anterior surface preparatory to dividing the stric- ture, and if the extent of cutting edge be great there is a risk of the intestine being wounded:—to avoid this, an instrument, such as the one here represented (fig. 226), where the cutting edge is of small extent, may be advantageously used. Some have even recommended a bistoury with a slid- ing shield, by which the sharp margin may be diminished to the smallest possible ex- tent. The bleeding from the external wounds in these operations (from the super- ficial epigastric, perhaps, or the external pu- dendal branches) seldom causes any annoy- ance, and ligatures are rarely necessary. In the operations above described, the ordinary method of opening the sac has been recommended ; but in large protru- sions it would unquestionably be highly desirable to return the contents without thus exposing the peritoneal surface. In the majority of such cases, the stricture may be divided without penetrating the sac; but in some instances, even after this has been done, the protrusion cannot be returned in consequence of adhesions. If Fig. 226. there were reason to suppose that these were of old standing—as, for example,—in an instance of long continued irreducible hernia,—it might be a question whether the contents should be exposed, but if it were probable, that the adhesions were slight and of recent date, and, further, if it were supposed possible to succeed in dividing them, and then returning the viscera, the sac should be opened, but by a wound not larger than may be absolutely necessary to effect the objects in view. Even in small hernia;, it has been proposed to relieve the stric- ture without opening the sac. The practice was resorted to by Petit and Monro, and in more modern times has received the sanction of