329 OPERATIONS FOR BENT KNEE. and the semi-membranosus then seems equally on the stretch: the knife should then be applied again, and next the biceps should be cut. The blade may be passed either between the femur and the ham- strings, or between them and the skin: I generally prefer the latter; but the difference seems of little consequence. In the young subject, with the limb much emaciated, the space between the hamstrings is very narrow, and the surgeon should not allow the point of the knife to pass so far into the middle of the limb as to endanger the popliteal vessels: the apparent carelessness with which I allude to division of the tibial arteries in the foot in making subcutaneous incisions must not be taken as the criterion here, for were the artery divided I should doubt if any other course than amputation in the thigh could be attempted with propriety. The posterior tibial nerve must also be carefully avoided : this may be readily done, but the peroneal lies so close to the biceps, that it can scarcely escape, unless great care be taken not to push the blade further than is absolutely required for the incision of the tendinous and muscular fibres. After the use of the knife any convenient apparatus may be applied. A straight piece of wood, or a portion of stout pasteboard, with a cushion, may be put on be- hind the knee, when, by means of a bandage the angle at the ham may be made less acute, and by careful readjustment from day to day the limb may be gradually brought into a line with its fellow. A double-inclined plane like one of Amesbury’s splints for the aim will be found highly advantageous in such cases : the two portions of which it is formed can be adjusted to the limb at its natural curvature, and by means of the screw the desired extension can be gradually and efficiently applied. The recent proposal of M. Louvrier, to stretch out the limb by actual force applied within a few minutes, is a practice which, in so far as I can judge without actual experience, is little worthy of imita- tion, and I cannot but express my astonishment that it should have been sanctioned, even in the most distant manner, by such authorities as Blandin and Velpeau: nor can I allude in more commendatory tenns to the proposal of Dieffenbach, first to divide the hamstrings, and then forcibly to apply extension. Whatever proposal emanates from such an authority cannot be overlooked; yet I must confess my horror at sanctioning any attempt at extending the limb by laying hold of the lower part of the leg, after the knife has been used, and, after forcing the foot up against the hip, drawing it suddenly backwards again, so as to stretch or lacerate the contracted textures at the knee. I am not aware that any British surgeon has tried either of these kinds of treatment: no one can doubt the practicability of stretching the member by such means, even in instances where there is bony anchylosis; or perhaps the femur, as has happened, will yield by fracture, to such rude force; but there must be few who would not shudder at such a proposal. Death from excessive inflammation and suppuration has occurred in some instances; amputation has been required in others; and it would appear that rapid and forcible cxten-