95 CHAPTER XXI. WOUNDS. The treatment of wounds constitutes a large proportion of surgical practice, and although much of the after part of this work is devoted to the consideration of particular kinds of such injuries, I deem it proper, in this stage of my task, to make some general observations upon them. Some wounds are so extensive, so complicated, so peculiar, and so hazardous to life, if the injured part is allowed to remain on the body, that amputation is the proper course of proceeding: severe compound fractures and dislocations, extensive gun-shot injuries, lace- rations by machinery, and other such examples, often demand this ope- ration ; in which event, the wound left on the body, though perhaps comparatively of great size, is always of a less formidable character. It is in the condition of a simple incised wound, which is the most favourable of all that the surgeon has to deal with. Such are the wounds which he himself usually inflicts in the performance of cutting operations; but as the use of the knife forms so small a share of the treatment of any injury or disease,— being, perhaps, the work of a few seconds or minutes only, whilst the after practice may last for weeks or months,—it is highly incumbent on the young sur- geon to study the science and art of treating and dressing such injuries. Whether a wound be punctured, contused, lacerated, poisoned, or gun-shot, it is usually a good object to bring it as nearly into the condition of a simple incised one as circumstances will permit. It is evident that this cannot be effected in all these instances; never- theless, much may be done by a judicious practitioner to forward this object. Thus, in a puncture, a portion of the sharp point with which it has been inflicted may have been left in the part, and, if this were allowed to remain, it would be almost certain to retard the cure. Again, in contusions and Lacerations, there may be great effusion of blood in the surrounding tissues, or there may be foreign substances driven into them. In poisoned wounds there is a peculiar source of irritation, and in those termed gun-shot (which usually in- clude the injuries of pistol, musket, or cannon-balls, and other mis- siles projected by explosions of gunpowder), if foreign bodies remain in contact with the textures, the result is almost invariably more trou- blesome, than when the track is left comparatively clear. Sometimes it is improper, or impossible, to remove foreign materials, at the commencement of treatment. In gun-shot injury, for instance, a large portion of the wound may be deprived of life, and can only separate by sloughing; or the most skilful surgeon may not be able to remove a foreign body which may be in the part. Then, in effu-