543 OPERATIONS ON THE PREPUCE. slight cracks and lacerations. The latter condition is often completely remedied by warm lotions and abstaining from any cause of irritation; but often in these instances the surgeon may confer great benefit by en- larging the opening. Here it has been recommended to cut at various parts of its circumference; many good authorities advising a slit on Qne side of the fraenum ; but after trying them all repeatedly, I give a decided preference to the following : The point of a director should be pushed in front, between the glans and prepuce, about half an inch up, and then a bistoury, such as that described for the last operation, should be thrust through, from within outwards, and carried down- wards, by which means a wound half an inch in length will be made in the skin (fig. 228) : that in the mucous membrane will scarcely appear so long—it should be lengthened with the scissors, and then two, three, and even four stitches should be introduced with a fine needle, and when union is complete the orifice will be sufficient to permit the foreskin to move over the glans, as in a natural condition. Plere I consider the stitches even more necessary than in circumcision: if, for instance, the wound is left to itself, a considerable granulating surface is established, and as it contracts it diminishes on all sides, and the orifice becomes nearly as tight as if nothing had been done, nay, it is positively in a more troublesome state, for the cicatrix is, perhaps, less extensible than the natural orifice, and the patient is left in a condition similar to that of one who has had a large chancre on the part; whereas, by using the needle and thread the two sides are laid together, a transverse line of union of an inch in length is thus accomplished, and the aperture of the foreskin is increased in a propor- tion similar to that of the circumference of a circle to its radius. Those who do not use stitches, instead of cutting a small wound and managing it in the manner described, occasionally, to make sure that the orifice will never contract improperly again, divide the skin and mucous membrane as high as the corona glandis ; a most gra- tuitous use of the knife, and in my opinion totally unnecessary. It is in such a case that the annoying results of the operation for phy- mosis are most conspicuous. The extent of the wound induces con- siderable inflammation, solid oedema of the two flaps, or wings as they may be called, often ensues, and whether or not, the condition eventually causes so much trouble as to induce the patient to submit to their removal. When the foreskin is thus extensively slit up, as may be required in instances of deep-seated chancre — it should inva- riably be separated at the time by circumcision. Bleeding is seldom troublesome in these operations — occasionally one or two ligatures may be required ; but when stitches are used the others are seldom needed. I have had to operate both on the child and adult for adhesion between the foreskin and glans, and have generally, in such ex- amples, removed the former entirely. Sometimes a dissection has been necessary to separate them ; but in other instances the adhesions have been torn up by stripping the skin backwards. Lately, in operating