209 EXCISION OF THE HEAD OF THE HUMERUS. bones are well displayed ; marks of several small openings on the inner side of the joint, and the carious articular surfaces are well made out too ; the shape of the incisions and flaps, and the ulnar nerve im- mediately behind the internal condyle, must also give clear illustration of what I have stated in previous pages. The joint is extensively diseased ; in fact, it appeared so much so, that I deemed amputation advisable, and accordingly performed it, being afraid, from the ex- hausted condition of the patient, that he would not be so safe with such a wound as that for excision ; but I have seen the latter most successfully practised in limbs equally bad, where, however, the cir- cumstances were better otherwise, and I imagine that any one who has witnessed many of these operations, must admit the general accu- racy of the representation. Although, generally, the bleeding has ceased ere the divided por- tions of bone are removed, one or two small vessels may require to be tied ; the edges of the wound must then be brought together and stitched, and the am must be kept in a bent position during the remainder of the treatment. A stiff arm will probably be the result, but in some instances a new or false joint forms, which is no bad substitute for the original one. In the early treatment after the operation, a pasteboard or other splint, such as that delineated at p. 181, should be worn on the inside of the arm, so as to keep it steady ; but in the course of three weeks or a month, a little motion should be encouraged. During the performance of this operation the humeral artery will scarcely require to be compressed ; and if the excision be done as above described, there is no danger of wounding this vessel in front of the elbow, as the brachialis muscle, lying between it and the joint, must be a sufficient protection in all instances where the knife is used with ordinary discretion. It is seldom that excision is required in any part of the shaft of the humerus; but should it ever be deemed necessary to expose any por- tion of this bone, there would be little difficulty or danger in doing so by making the incision on the posterior surface of the am, as in the operation for false joint already referred to. In some instances of injury or disease of the head of the humerus, the surgeon attempts to save the upper extremity by the performance of excision of this portion of the bone. In gun-shot injuries, when the solt parts are not extensively destroyed, the operation may be adopted with the most happy results, and it has now been done so frequently in civil practice, that it is justly esteemed one of the most legitimate and brilliant achievements of modern surgery. When the head of the bone is shattered into fragments, an incision extending four or five inches from the acromion, in a line with and through the fibres of the deltoid, as recommended by Larrey, in imitation of the original operation performed by White, will enable the surgeon to remove as much of the injured bone as may be required : the wound in a muscular subject will be found narrow and deep, and although I r