CHAPTER V. OPERATIONS ON THE RECTUM. Various operations are demanded on and near the lower end of the rectum. An aperture may be required in the perineum in case of im- perforate anus, and here the proceedings may be simple or complicated according to circumstances. A few days ago I saw an instance in a new-born infant, where the opening at the lower part of the rectum was so small that the meco- nium could be discharged only by drops : a large collection above had taken place, and the protrusion in the perineum was considerable. A probe-pointed bistoury was introduced, and four notches were made, which permitted a most copious evacuation. If, as often happens, the rectum is closed below by a thin portion of skin only, its projecting extremity, as the meconium collects, will soon become so distinct that there can be no hesitation in passing the point of a knife through the obstruction, and thus giving vent to the matter. In such an instance a crucial incision will be advisable, and it mil be proper also to watch the healing of the wounds, lest the opening become too small. In examples when the anus alone is imperforate, and where the gut immediately above is fully developed, the sphincter and levator muscles are, in all probability, entire, arql the parts shortly after operation will appear as if nothing had ever been wrong. But the bowel may be much deeper, and a freer use of the knife may be required. Here the wound must be made in the usual site of the anus, and carried sufficiently deep to reach the end of the gut. This, however, cannot be accomplished in all instances, for the termination of the intestinal canal may be so high that it does not reach the cavity of the pelvis at all, or if it does, the surgeon is reluctant to carry the instrument so deep in case of wounding the bladder, peritoneum, or iliac arteries. The latter vessels must be closer to the woimd than might be imagined, for in such a young subject, when the finger is passed deep, the sides of the pelvis can be readily felt — indeed, it is in close contact with them. Occasionally the gut opens into the bladder or urethra, when, if its lower end cannot be reached, an incision must be made into one or other of these parts. A case of the kind once came under my own care, the particulars of which were published in the 36th volume of The Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal. An opening was made into the neck of the bladder as was supposed, and the operation was, in as far as circumstances would admit, perfectly successful. The boy lived and throve till he was six years old, when he died of disease of the lungs. Although it may be doubtful if there was a sphinc- ter or levator here originally, he had the command over the aper-