THE HEAD AND NECK. 470 sible drag on the stitches: at other times he should not permit the saliva even to pass backwards. The stitches should be carefully cut out (p. 32) on the second or third day, and on no account whatever should he partake of solid food, until all risk of the wound tearing open has passed away. When a person grows up with this malformation, he, from custom, feels but little the physical inabilities of the part: he usually can swal- low well, although perhaps when a child some of his food and drink would occasionally get into the nostrils. The first case in which Roux operated affords as good an example of the annoying nature of the defect, and the efficacy of the proceeding, as any that could be adduced. A young medical gentleman, with a tone of voice similar to that of those who have lost the soft palate by disease, asked the pro- fessor if anything could be done for him. Staphyloraphe was the re- sult ; and when the patient returned again among his friends, he was so greatly improved that (in so far as his voice was concerned) he could scarcely be recognised as the same individual. The lower jaw occasionally becomes so closely bound to the upper, that the teeth cannot be sufficiently separated to admit of solid food. This condition may arise from inflammation and adhesion of the gums, more especially after necrosis of the alveolar processes: sometimes it is the result of chronic contraction of a muscle ; occasionally it has been accompanied with anchylosis both here and in other joints, of which there is a remarkable specimen in the possession of M. Dubreuil, of Montpellier, in which however a similar condition was not present in any other part of the same skeleton ; and in certain examples it is dif- ficult to say what is the cause. Some years ago I had a patient with the mouth thus contracted, and in whom there was a portion of the lower jaw in a state of caries: the disease was not in such a condition that I could, with propriety, attempt its entire removal. A portion of bone, however, was excised, but little benefit resulted, and what there was might probably be attributed more to the use of a kind of screw-dilator, than to the partial removal of what I considered a source of irritation. Mott has succeeded in two instances in relieving such permanent adstrictions; and in the first volume of “ The Provincial Medical and Surgical Journal,” there is a case recorded wherein I was fortunate enough to produce a similar effect by dividing the masseter on one side with a narrow knife, passed from the mouth between that muscle and the skin. If anchylosis be the cause of closure, it is doubtful if the surgeon would be justified in interfering.