FRACTURES OF THE PATELLA. 280 Fi<j. 158. Fig. 159. served that division of this bone, even when the skin over it is entire, cannot altogether he considered as a simple fracture, for the injury is complicated with division of the synovial capsule ; but fortunately it is rarely followed by very severe consequences : even in the event of solution in the skin also, unless the injury be otherwise very formida- ble, some hopes may be entertained of saving the limb. The treatment, in what is called simple fracture, which, in my opi- nion, may almost invariably be pursued, is to place the limb upon a M‘Intyre’s splint in a complete state of extension, with the foot raised a few inches above the level of the hip, and the shoulders and trunk somewhat elevated too, in order to relax the rectus femoris as much as possible : a folded towel should be laid lengthwise between the skin and the splint, and for the first few days it may not be deemed requisite to apply a bandage of any kind, unless in instances when, from the restlessness of the patient or other causes, there is a risk of the limb falling off the apparatus. In this way all movement at the joint is prevented, and the parts kept much more steady than even on the hardest mattress. At first leeches and warm fomenta- tions may be applied, or cold lotions, according to the apparent extent of inflammation; and, as the absorption of fluid within the joint begins and progresses, a bandage may be used to restore the dis- placed fragment to its natural position. As soon as it is perceived that acute inflammation has subsided, and the fluid within the cap- sule has diminished, a simple roller must be carried round the limb and the splint, from six or eight inches above the knee, as lovt as the tuberosity of the tibia: to effect more complete downward pres- sure on the upper fragment, it will be well to place, a pad of lint along the lower part of the rectus. As the effusion subsides, the bandage must be tightened from day to day, until, probably on the tenth or twelfth, the fragments will be brought into approximation, without occasioning the slightest pain,—and now the pressure by the roller may be made of a firmer and more permanent kind. In this way I have placed the fragments in a transverse fracture in the closest apposition; and, though I will not assert that bony union has been the result, I can affirm that no appreciable space or fissure could be detected, nor could the slightest movement between the different portions be discovered. u