126 AMPUTATION. addition, I compared the stumps made by the two methods, and conse- quently by different practitioners. I feel that my personal experience with the circular operation has not been such as to entitle me to give an impartial opinion regarding the two modes. I must say, however, that in so far as results are concerned, I place far less importance on some of the distinctions between these operations, than has been done by certain authorities on the subject. If rapidity of execution is to be taken as the test of superiority, then I imagine that the flap operation must be allowed the preference ; but in the hands of a good surgeon, the difference of time required for the efficient performance of either, seems to me of so little conse- quence, that such a calculation should not be taken into account. I once heard a surgeon of very considerable experience argue, that if the cutting part of an amputation were well done in twenty or thirty minutes, the performance was as creditable to the operator as if it were done in one, three, or five; but I think there must be few who will entertain such a doctiine : had he pleaded for a few seconds, or minutes at most, no one could have deemed him unreason- able. It has been stated by Roux, in the account of his journey to London in 1814, that he witnessed, in one of the London hospitals, a circular amputation, in which “ nearly twenty minutes had been employed in only the separation of the limbI feel assured that he could have seen nothing of the kind during his brief visit in 1841. Such a mode of proceeding ought not to be taken into account in dis- cussing the question of rapidity in the two operations, for I imagine that the same individual who thus ingeniously expended “ nearly twenty minutes” in using the knife and saw, would also contrive, in some way or other, to occupy a similar period in performing the flap operation. I cannot but think that the same hand which rapidly and safely completes the flap incision would, with almost equal facility, if equally well trained, accomplish the circular. On this point, I can speak from my own very limited trial of the circular, which I have accomplished, in the manner described below, in nearly the same space of time that I should have taken for the flap operation in the same limbs, although, from the want of a like amount of practice as with the flap, I have felt more awkward in the accomplishment of my design, and perhaps, also, from certain circumstances to be referred to afterwards, a little more difficulty. A surgeon of the present day who takes more than from thirty seconds to three minutes (excepting under peculiar circumstances) for the performance of an amputation, whether flap or circular, ought not, in my opinion, to be taken as an authority on the subject. I would, therefore, set aside the question of time in such an argument as that to which I now allude. The comparative extent of cut surfaces in the respective operations seems to me of trifling importa few inches more or less, provided always that a good stump is left, will never, in my opinion, determine the issue of an amputation. The bleeding during such a proceeding