ULCERATION. 76 The term ulcer is usually applied to a healthy granulating surface, such as that which is present in a wound healing by the second intention, a stump, for example, treated in the Continental fashion, without bringing the surfaces into apposition at first; yet here, it may be remarked, the process of ulceration will, in all likelihood, never be present at any period, from the infliction of the wound until cicatrization is complete. In most instances of ulceration there seems to be a deposit of lymph between the affected surface and the parts immediately under- neath, and hence, then, when vessels of moderate size are destroyed by this process, there is a security against hemorrhage. Sometimes, however, this effusion does not occur, and then the ulceration is most dangerous; and sometimes the ulcerative absorption removes the lymph that may have been effused: of both of which examples the secondaiy hemorrhages which occur after amputations and operations for aneurism give too frequent proof. Ulceration may go on in any texture and in any part of the body. On the skin it is seen in a variety of forms; on the mucous mem- brane, also; and it occurs in articular surfaces, cartilages, bones, and bloodvessels. Sometimes it is accompanied with a secretion of pus; at other times, absorption alone takes place. The treatment of this disease will be best exemplified by reference to the diseases of the different textures afterwards described, but it may be stated generally to consist in such measures as are supposed to arrest its progress and bring on a healing action. The general treatment for inflammation, constitutional as well as local, seems most applicable, whether the ulcerative process is going on externally or internally. When all the symptoms of inflammation are well marked, as most frequently they are, abstraction of blood, locally in particular, fomentations, counter-irritation, and other remedies already referred to, may be of service; and where the disease seems to be of a specific nature, as in poisoned wounds or sores, from syphilis or other causes, the destruction of the affected surface with caustic, and the internal exhibition of mercury, or other medicines, may bring about a more healthy condition.