THE SUPERIOR EXTREMITY. 200 of the upper portion, which required removal, and thus occasioned a loss of about an inch in its length ; the two extremities were brought into as close contact as possible,—they could not be brought to meet, but the favourable result which might have been reasonably expected, if there had been no loss of substance, did not take place. I have lately been informed that both the temperature and sensibility of those parts supplied by this nerve have increased. In an instance of painful ulcer on the arm, a little above the inner condyle, I have seen a portion of the ulnar nerve, supposed to be in- volved in the sore, removed with excellent effect. The painful open surface which had been present for many months, and resisted all attempts at cure, speedily put on a more healthy aspect, and the ope- ration, although it deprived the little finger and the ulnar side of the ring one of sensibility, was attended with all the benefit that could have been desired. Incisions are sometimes made in cases of erysipelas, and a know- ledge of anatomy will indicate the safest places for applying the knife on such occasions: they are required, too, in cases of whitlow in the fingers, in suppurations, for the removal of tumours, of diseased or dead portions of bones, and occasionally, also, for false joints. In all these operations, the general rule of cutting parallel with im- portant parts, should be carefully kept in view. In certain instances it will be absolutely necessary to sacrifice some tendon, large nerve, or vessel: about the wrist, it may sometimes be deemed advisable to dissect out wens, ganglions, or solid tumours, and it will scarcely" be possible to avoid the division of some such textures; yet, by great care, most of the important parts may be avoided even here. I have often succeeded in removing ganglions from the back of the wrist without dividing any tendons, although the tumours lay close upon the carpal bones, and in one instance I removed a large, firm, fatty tumour from the front immediately above the wrist, although it dipped among the tendons, and actually touched the pronator quadratus. I should wish it understood, however, that I do not recommend operations in such cases unless there is some good reason, for at all times there is danger of severe inflammation coming on, which may leave the wrist in a stiffened condition ever after. I should say the same, too, for chronic collections of fluids in the sheaths, either of the extensors or flexors of the fingers,—for although instances are not wanting to show that injurious inflammation does not invariably succeed to operations in this situation, the surgeon will do well to calculate the chances of such an occurrence, and, therefore, whether he does right in submitting his patient to such a probability. In swellings depending on effusions, I have occasionally, as al- ready stated in my remarks on the treatment of tumours, succeeded in curing these affections without incisions; but such a course will sometimes he necessary. In some instances loose fibro-cartilaginous bodies are observed in these sheaths, which can be got rid of only" by recourse to the knife. Some time ago I treated a case of the kind in