LIGATURE OP ARTERIES. 513 on the dead subject. Indeed, from the admirable description given by Sir Philip Crampton, it appears that the resemblance on the living body to the proceeding on the dead is greater than in most other operations on the large arteries; for, with the exception of the bleeding from the external wound, and the muscular parietes, (which will probably have ceased ere the deep parts are exposed, although possibly the superficial epigastric and branches of the circumflexa ilii may require ligatures,) there may, in reality, be nothing to obscure the view of the vessels. Sometimes, however, an aneurismal tumour may be so high as to bulge through the opening, and the peritoneum, with the bowels within it, may also do the same. Mott had great difficulties to contend with from both of these circumstances, but overcame them by making a very large external wound (eight inches) and holding the projecting parts aside by means of curved spatulse and a wooden board three inches broad, either or both of which being more convenient in the wound, perhaps even more safe, than the fingers of assistants. Letter a on the preceding figure (2'2'2) marks the line of incision for the lower part of the external iliac, and b shows that for the upper end of this vessel, for the internal, or for the common. Let- ter c in the same drawing shows the course of the incision which was made by Sir Astley Cooper when he placed a ligature on the abdo- minal aorta. After opening the peritoneum, dividing the linea alba an inch and a half above the umbilicus, and as much below, Sir Astley, by scratching with his nail at the root of the mesentery, was enabled to insulate the artery, and carry a thread round it. A similar opera- tion has been performed by Mr. James of Exeter; but both were un- successful ; and more recently another attempt by Dr. Murray has been equally unfortunate. In the latter instance, instead of opening the peritoneal cavity, the vessel was secured by reaching it behind the membrane, somewhat in the manner above recommended for ligature of the common iliac. Such a method is doubtless best in dogs, in whom the vessel is usually reached by an incision parallel with the outer margin of the quadratus lumborum muscle; but, in my opinion, a wound sufficiently long could not be made between the crest of the ilium and the twelfth rib on the human subject, and in such an inci- sion as that for the common iliac the depth from the surface would be so great, that there would be vast difficulty in conveying the thread round the vessel. When Mott secured the common iliac, the distance of the artery from the external wound was “ the whole length of the aneurismal needleit would therefore be considerably greater were such an attempt made on the aorta. Since John Bell’s celebrated case wherein he tied the gluteal artery, which had been cut across-in a punctured wound, a similar proceeding has, I believe, been effected by Mr. Syme, although I have not heard that the operation was so formidable. Mr. Bell first made an incision through the skin and “ great fascia of the hip,” two inches and a half in length, into the large collection of etl'used blood ; this not sufficing, it was made “ eight inches long”; then the patient being in danger of