AMPUTATION. 130 my estimation, a most important distinction between the two proceed- ings, and has probably had the greatest influence in determining my own line of practice; and here, then, let it be remarked, that I speak with reference to the performance of the respective operations, not their results. Any one who has had opportunities of contrasting the two modes, must have been struck with the apparent advantages in the execution of the one over the other: the facility of selecting a flap from any convenient side, the comparative ease with which it may be cut, the greater certainty of preserving a sufficiency of soft parts, the readiness with which the bone can be exposed for the application of the saw, are all, in my opinion, important advantages in favour of the flap operation. In the thigh, for example, it is easier to tranfix, and cut a flap on each side, three or four inches long, than to preserve a cover- ing of similar length, by circular incisions : in the latter, I imagine, that the soft parts cannot be so easily drawn up, and if considerable force is not used in this stage of the proceeding, even a practised sur- geon may find that the bone, when cut, is too much on a level with the rest of the surface. In the flap operation the slightest force,— little more than the mere lifting of the flaps, will suffice for retraction. The limited .extent of this work forbids me to enter further on these matters at the present time. I trust it may be considered, that I have dealt fairly with the circular operation ; I deem it inferior to the other, as regards its execution ; but I think that it remains to be proved, (not by assertion, but by actual experience in the manner alluded to in a former page,) whether, when equal skill and pains are bestowed, and the same mode of dressing is applied to each, the results are so very different, as some modern authorities would lead us to believe. The flap operation seems by universal consent to be superior to the circular, when amputation is required at an articulation, although, as will afterwards be found, it has been proposed to amputate at the hip-joint even by the circular method. The individual flap operations will be described in future pages ; but to save repetition, I shall here introduce a description of a circular amputation, which may enable either a student or practitioner to apply the method to any part of the body he may think fit. The knife, saw, and other appurtenances, may be the same as for a flap operation. The kind of knife I have used in my own practice is represented in the figure on the next page, and it seems to me as efficient for the purpose as the clumsy instruments generally used by those who always practise the circular incision. The fingers of an as- sistant are usually sufficient for the purpose of retracting flaps; but here some additional means arc almost indispensable. A piece of stout linen cloth, four or six inches in breadth, and about eighteen in length, split lengthwise about nine inches, into two or three ends, in accordance with the number of bones in the seat of operation, will answer all the purposes of the leather or metal retractors used in