125 AMPUTATION. CHAPTER XXVII. AMPUTATION. It will be afterwards found, that, in describing the mode of ampu- tating in different parts of the extremities, I have almost invariably recommended the flap operation, as it is called ; that is, by preserving the principal part of the future covering of the exposed bone or bones, from one or two sides of the limb, by the single flap or the double, according to circumstances. Since 1679, when Lowdham first pro- posed this operation, there has been great controversy as to its merits, and those of the mode by circular incisions. Previous to the last twenty years, although the operation may be said to be entirely Bri- tish in its origin, the circular method seems, with few exceptions, to have been universally followed by surgeons of this country. Of late, the proceeding by flaps has again been introduced, more especi- ally among those who have been educated in Edinburgh within the above-named period. The influence and example of Messrs. Liston, Lizars, and Syme, must have induced thousands to follow this plan. Sir George Ballingall also, if I remember aright, invariably performed the flap operation during the time he officiated as acting surgeon in The Royal Infirmary, although it appears, from his valuable work on Military Surgery, that he does not assent to all the advantages that have been claimed for this mode, nor acquiesce in the abuse which has been heaped on the circular incisions. His successors followed in the same course, and, like other pupils of the school, I myself imi- tated the practice of my seniors, in by far the greater number of amputations which I performed in Edinburgh. I believe I am correct in stating, that during a period of twelve years, the circular operation was never performed in The Edinburgh Hospital until it was again done by myself, during the latter part of my sendee in that institution. I find, from the statistical tables of the establishment, drawn up by my respected friend. Professor Reid, of St. Andrew’s, that in two years (from July 1839 to July 1841) sixty-nine amputations on the extremities were performed, and it will therefore not be unrea- sonable to suppose, that upwards of four hundred similar opera- tions were performed in the above twelve years. When the operations in private, during the same period, by the flap method also, are added to this number, it may readily be perceived how widely the example must have spread. Having, with few exceptions, witnessed all those done in public, and seen and been engaged in a reasonable proportion of private cases, it could scarcely be other- wise than that I should, in my own practice, follow the flap incision ; more especially when I contrasted those done by the above-named gentlemen and others of less note, with the occasional circular opera- tions which, from time to time, I witnessed elsewhere, and when, in