548 CHEST, ABDOMEN, AND PELVIS. vious condition of the passage is accompanied with fistulous openings in the perineum ; in others the surface is entire; and occasionally there may actually be infiltration of urine in the cellular tissue between the skin and the neck of the bladder. In certain examples the distended urethra can be felt behind the stricture, and here there can be little difficulty in doing what is required; for, first the bladder can at once be evacuated by cutting into the tube, and then the latter being so capacious, there can be no great trouble in getting the point of a cathe- ter along, when once it has been got through the contracted part. The proceedings may be conducted in this manner : — The patient should be tied and placed in a similar position as for lithotomy ; then the sur- geon, seated as if about to perform that operation, should cut in the raphe in the line of the bulb of the urethra, and having made an inci- sion about an inch or somewhat more in length, should.feel for the end of the catheter, which should now be carried along the anterior part of the canal, or which may have been introduced before the incision was made : next, partly by using the knife and partly by force, the point of the catheter should be brought into the wound, and afterwards, by cutting and forcing, carried along the posterior extremity of the urethra into the bladder : sometimes a few applications of the knife will suffice, and the instrument will slip along at once; but on other occasions the most difficult step of the operation is to get it into the back part of the canal. Perhaps the latter may not have been sufficiently opened,— if, indeed, it has been cut at all,—and possibly there may be stricture so far along, that the difficulty may still be as great as if an attempt were being made to force the passage without any wound in the pe- rineum. A director or a straight staff passed into the aperture may probably be of some advantage, and supposing that the catheter is at last introduced, it must be kept in the bladder (changing it from time to time) until the wound in the perineum has closed. In this operation, as well as in that previously described, a catheter about the medium size (No. 6‘ or 8) and length should be used. Oc- casionally, if the pelvis is large, the patient stout, and the prostate enlarged, an instrument, an inch or two longer than common must be used, and it should always be sufficiently stout not to yield to any reasonable amount of force. It may bend, as I have witnessed in several cases, or it might actually break. A silver instrument is ge- nerally used on these occasions, but after the canal has once been, forced, a flexible catheter may be advantageously substituted in some instances. Either may be kept in the bladder by means of tapes at- tached to the rings and fastened in front and behind to a band round the loins. Narrow slips of oiled silk will perhaps answer better than common tape ; and instead of fastening them directly to the instru- ment, it is the custom of some first to attach a ring of wood to them, by means of a couple of tapes, and then this being slid upon the penis to connect the body tapes with it, whereby they are less apt to be disturbed. Such proceedings as those above referred to should, in my opinion,