442 THE HEAD AND NECK. when, from obstructions in the nasal duct, the condition termed stilli- cidium lachrymalis is present. If there be a fistulous opening in the sac, whether from previous puncture or from ulceration, the probe may be pushed downwards through it; and in such a case slender instru- ments may be used at first, when, as dilatation goes forward, they may be gradually increased in size. Catgut probes (bougies) have sometimes been used on these occasions—or steel ones have been preferred— and in other examples attempts have been made to overcome the ob- structions by injections of water conveyed through a small syringe, recommended for the purpose by Anel, whilst in rare instances a column of mercury has been used with a similar object. From my own limited experience with these slender instruments of Ancl’s, I cannot express great confidence in their use ; and Mr. Tyrrell seems to think them of but little service. Mr. Morgan has recommended a curved steel probe for the examination of the nasal duct, when it is made from below. Supposing there is no opening in the sac at the inner canthus, and that an operation is deemed necessary to restore the proper course of the tears, it may be performed in the following manner: The patient being seated, the surgeon, standing behind or in front as he may choose, should, with his left hand, put the tendinous cord already alluded to on the stretch, and then push a sharp pointed bistoury into the sac immediately below this cord ; this being done, he should next elevate the blade a little, to make room for a probe or style, which he should thmst through the opening in the skin into the sac, and from thence along the nasal duct into the lower part of the nostril. The position in this proceeding some difficult)' in passing the probe into the lachry- mal sac ; especially, when the knife has been withdrawn altogether; therefore, I recommend, that the point of the instrument should, al- though elevated a little, still be left in the sac until the probe is in- troduced along its flat surface. After the point of the latter has been introduced, it may even then be troublesome to carry it into the nostril ; sometimes it will pass down the sac, at other times along its side ; occasionally I believe it perforates the bone, and in other instances it is purposely passed through the osseous texture where\er Fig. 203. I' of the knife is exhibited in the accompanying figure (203) ; it will be observed that it is al- most in a straight direction downwards, the upper part of the blade resting, as it were, over the notch in the supra-or- bital ridge. The orifice in the skin may be of the same extent as the breadth of the blade, or the latter may be so managed, if it is desired, as to make it somewhat more. I have found