FRACTURES OF THE LEG. 285 aspect of clumsiness and insecurity by no means agreeable to the eye of the practised surgeon. I have now made use of this foot-board for some time at King’s College Hospital, and deem it a considerable ad- dition to a splint already so generally efficient. In most examples of fractures of one or both bones of the leg, little or no trouble is expe- rienced in keeping the foot in its natural position, as it may be but slightly, if at all, distorted; in many, however, and more particu- larly if the distortion is chiefly occasioned by actual dislocation at the ankle, it may be very troublesome indeed to prevent the toes from turning inwards or outwards. With the common foot-board, a pad on the inner or outer margin of the foot is, with the additional aid of the roller, the only means in the surgeon’s power to keep the foot aright; but, without meaning to deny that the best of cures may be accomplished in this way, I am inclined to think from my own experience, that lateral movements in the foot-board will be found highly advantageous, when there is great disposition for the toes to turn inwards or outwards, to counteract such tendency. In fractures of one or both bones of the leg, accompanied with par- tial or complete dislocation of the foot at the ankle, as described in previous pages, the above apparatus with the common foot-board, or that just recommended, will almost invariably produce every good result which the surgeon could desire. Notwithstanding the utmost care, the malleolus internus will sometimes be found to project consi- derably inwards, after union has been completed; and this condition may be attributed in some degree to the deficient means of extension afforded by the ordinary splints in use: but on this subject I must refer to the description, in a future page, of a form of apparatus which will in a great measure, in my opinion, obviate all further difficulty on this score. With slight modifications in the adjustments, all fractures of the leg, whether with or without dislocations at the ankle, may be most efficiently treated as directed above; and although, from my own experience, I give these means a preference, it must not be concealed from the young reader, that there are many others in constant use among different surgeons, which at the end of the treatment evince the skill and tact of the practitioner in a manner equally satis- factory. As it is not within the scope of this work to describe, or even to enumerate, all these methods, I must refrain from doing so, even were it in my power, or within the compass of my know- ledge, to point out all the little differences in apparatus and in treatment which may be witnessed in a cursory glance at hospital or private practice in different parts of the country. I cannot, however, omit referring particularly to two other plans, which the surgeon may occasionally, from necessity or desire, resort to with ever)- prospect of advantage. The splint above described may not be at hand, but a very simple substitute may be provided with little difficulty. A piece of