operations on the upper jaws. 485 the floor of the orbit, the saw need not be used after its duty has been fulfilled on the hard palate ; but the forceps, after having succeeded it here, must then be applied to divide the nasal process of the maxilla between the nostril and inner side of the orbit, then to the zygomatic process of the malar, and lastly to the frontal or orbital process (as may be found convenient) of the same bone, when the tumour should be forcibly depressed with the fingers, so as to cause it to start from its place ; this being accomplished, a few additional touches with the knife will serve to divide the remaining soft textures, when the se- paration will be completed. If the orbit has to be opened in this man- ner, of course it will be requisite to make a slight dissection, to permit the eyeball and its appendages to be held out of the way of the forceps and fingers. In operations for small tumours, the surgeon has been recommended, in making the wound on the surface, to stand in front of the patient; but in applying the saw, it mil usually be best to stand behind, and in the operation last described he must change his position too ; in- deed, he must move about in such a way as to suit his convenience ; for the surfaces are so irregular, whether in a natural or diseased condition, that he is obliged to do so, else he will cramp the move- ments of his own hands. The incisions through the cheeks are generally followed by profuse bleeding, but it soon ceases from the small vessels, and the facial can be commanded at first with the fingers and afterwards with a ligature. The vessels behind never give trouble, unless part of the tumour has been left after the larger mass has been removed ; and in such a case the actual cautery may possibly be required. I once saw Sir George Ballingall use several large balls of heated iron here, in an instance where he removed a large growth from the site of the antrum, when a portion of it was found to be so deep, that it was deemed advis- able to endeavour to destroy it in this way, and when, moreover, the hemorrhage was so copious that the cautery was considered re- quisite to stem the flow. It has occasionally been the custom to tie the common or the external carotid before proceeding to attack such growths, but experience has proved that this is altogether un- necessary. Before the branches of the internal maxillary reach the back of the tumour, they are so small, that when cut or tom across the escape of blood is trifling. It is scarcely necessary to observe that in the early part of the ope- ration the infra-orbital nerve is cut as it passes out of its canal: at the latter stage, as the tumour is being turned out, the nerve should be divided at the back part of the floor of the orbit to prevent its being dragged or torn. Nor need I do more than remark that, as the gap is now great between the tongue and the eyeball, it is necessary in dress- ing the wound to stuff the cavity with lint: this being advisable both to assist in restraining bleeding, as well as to keep the eye- ball from falling too low, and the cheek from sinking too much in. The wounds on the surface must be accurately brought together by