THE INFERIOR EXTREMITY. 356 limb was forcibly abducted, and the fibula used as a lever. Unless, however, the bone be extensively shattered, or in a state of disease, it never should be entirely removed. The amputation in the leg which I have recommended, may be deemed that with the single flap, as originally proposed by Verduin; it will be observed, however, that such a portion of skin in front is preserved, that it may actually be called a double flap-operation. I have seen even a larger portion left in front, so as to give the proceeding still more the character of the double-flap operation; but one half of the stump appeared to me so like a bag of skin, containing pus with- in, that I was not impressed with any advantage which the method presented, unless it was that it allowed the surgeon to depend less on the bulk of the posterior flap, and thus enabled him to avoid the incon- venience of a large mass of flesh, such as has already been adverted to. I have also seen lateral flaps made after the manner practised by Roux, by transfixing from before backwards ; but although the opera- tion was done by an adept in the use of the catlin, the stump was the worst I ever saw, and I should no more think of preserving lateral flaps here, than in the lower third of the fore-arm. In the latter case, although it might be easy to preserve a covering to the ends of the bones, from the radial and ulnar aspects of the member, it is quite evident that this can be most efficiently done from the posterior and anterior surfaces; and although the character of flatness is not so conspicuous in the leg as in the fore-arm, I am, nevertheless, of opinion that there is some resemblance, and that it is best to look to the corresponding surfaces in the lower limb. A single flap might be preserved from the tibial or fibular side, should it be deemed necessary; but such proceedings need no separate description here, as they can scarcely be deemed among the regular operations of surgery, and any one possessing a moderate share of anatomical knowledge, and of dexterity with the amputating instruments, can have little difficulty in preserving a covering, of skin at least, from any side of the limb. Whichever proceeding is followed, and in whatever part of the leg the incisions are effected, the general rule of preserving an inch too much rather than the least portion too little, should always be kept in view. The young surgeon will find three or six months after amputa- tion, that he will have more reason to be well satisfied with a stump which looked somewhat clumsy at first, than with another which possessed all that finical neatness which may have captivated the spectator at the time, but will make an indifferent appearance when compared with the other at some future date. I have only once known a flap made too long in this situation. The operator apparently had a dread that his flap would be too short, and had made sure that it should not have this fault, by reserving nearly the whole textures on the back of the limb. Amputation at the knee-joint has never, to my knowledge, been performed in this country; and, notwithstanding the testimony of Velpeau in its favour, there seems little inclination on the part of the