DISLOCATIONS AND FRACTURES. 101 the surgeon has to give careful attention to their position, and to see that the bandages, splints, and other apparatus, are properly applied. It often happens that after the first dressing there is no further occasion for the surgeon’s interference; but he acts unwisely who gives a case no further notice until the time comes for taking off the coverings; for, besides the frecpient necessity for loosening or tightening bandages, averting undue pressure on particular points, as- certaining that no unusual inflammation is going on, no vesication on the surface, no suppuration within, it is incumbent on him, also, to observe, that no displacement occurs during the movements of the patient, or otherwise, so that in such an event, he may take the ear- best opportunity of putting the parts right again. I am convinced that success in the treatment of fractures, depends much more on these attentions, than on any marked superiority in particular forms and kinds of splints and bandages. Out of the many cases treated in our public hospitals, there are few examples met with of marked deformity; yet it is doubtful if the apparatus used in such cases is altogether alike in any two establishments; and the results are often equally good in the instance when no splint or bandage is made use of, as when the most complicated instruments are had recourse to. These results, then, in my opinion, are chiefly to be attributed to the skill and care of the surgeon,—skill in the original setting and adjustment, and care in the after management. With few exceptions, it will rarely be necessary to use leeches, or other such means, to subdue the inflammation which follows simple fracture; — rest and good position being chiefly to be relied on. When great injury has been inflicted, it may be well to' use some precautions lest the inflammation should run on to suppuration. Leeches and fomentations may possibly be deemed advisable ; but, in general, cloths wetted with cold water, or a cooling lotion, may be preferred. If suppuration ensues, the matter should be evacuated at an early period: if it is not already in contact with one or both frag- ments, it may speedily he so, and caries or necrosis may be the result. In compound fractures, the treatment must be varied according to circumstances. At first, the fragments must be set as in the case of simple fracture, with the exception that the wound on the surface must not be covered in a permanent manner,—the splints and ban- dages being so placed as to permit the application of any dressings that may be deemed necessary. If the wound in the skin is slight, an attempt may be made to effect union by the first intention, and if this succeeds, the case must afterwards be treated exactly in the same manner as a simple fracture. If, however, the wound sup- purates, which it is almost certain to do in a large proportion of cases, the application of poultices and warm-water dressings, as in the treatment of suppuration under other circumstances, must be resorted to, and when the matter does not appear to have free egress, more convenient openings should be made. The diffusion or infiltration of