439 TUMOURS ON EYELIDS. interior of the cyst should he touched with a pencil of lunar caustic ; or a portion may be cut out with scissors. Sometimes such growths may be dissected out with a scalpel, whilst the lid is thus everted, and although any of these proceedings may be comparatively easy in some individuals, they will cause much trouble to the surgeon in others: indeed, there are few patients who can keep the parts as still as the operator might wish, and there are some in whom the orbicular muscle becomes so affected with spasm as to make it almost impossible to conduct such operations in a satisfactory manner. The supposed advantage of the above practice is to leave the skin without a scar ; but in many instances it is requisite to remove the disease through an external incision. Here the wound should be made parallel -with the wrinkles, as already stated, with reference to incisions for other purposes. Sometimes it will be easy to complete the operation without touching the mucous lining ; in others, the whole thickness of the lid will be divided ; and I have myself been startled at the first glance of the cornea appearing through the wound at a time when I did not imagine that the knife had passed so deep. So far as my own experience goes, I have not seen that more trouble results from such a complete division, although of course it is best to keep the lining entire, if this can be done. One or two stitches, so applied that the thread shall not come in contact with the eyeball, will keep the edges in accurate apposition. It is scarcely necessary to add, that in all such operations the succeeding inflammation should be carefully watched ; it rarely happens that it extends to the globe, yet I have seen it do so, and great mischief result therefrom. These proceedings are ranked among what are usually characterised as the minor operations of surgery ; they are simple enough, certainly, yet the young surgeon will find that they require more nicety of manipulation, and try his patience more than those of a more for- midable and more tangible kind. Where the parts are so moveable, a sharp knife is highly desirable, and the hook forceps (p. 27) will here be of great sendee in keeping the tumour steady. Tumours occasionally form within the orbit which require removal. In many instances the diagnosis of such cases is difficult; first, as to whether the growth is malignant or not, and then as to its connexion. If the former, there is no time to lose, and removal should be proposed before all the parts around are implicated. Melanotic growths and those of a medullary character, supposing they can be discriminated, are such as these remarks apply to, as it must be highly desirable to operate before the eyeball is affected or any of its important appendages. Then, on the other hand, it may be difficult to determine in how far the latter parts are involved, or possibly whether, in consequence of the surrounding attachments to the orbit, it would be proper to interfere with the disease at all. As tumours in this situation increase in size, they generally cause protrusion of the eyeball: ulti- mately, by the stretching of the optic nerve, and possibly by altering the shape of the organ, causing loss of vision ; and this may occur