DISSECTIONS. 251 displayed. On the upper part of the foot the bones of the tarsus are joined to each other by numerous short ligamentous fibres, of no great strength, however, compared with those on the lower surface of the arch. In this situation a strong fibrous structure will be found, pass- ing from the anterior and lower part of the os calcis, to be attached to the cuboid, and to most of the other tarsal bones. This ligament runs in close contact with the arch, and all the tendons and other soft structures are below it (i. e. nearer the skin), with the exception of the tendon of the peroneus longus, which is kept in the groove in the cuboid bone by some of its fibres, which in this situation may be traced forwards, to be attached to the metatarsal bones of the three outermost toes. On the inner margin of the tarsus, a strong band of fibres will be observed between the scaphoid and internal cuneiform, apparently a continuation of part of the tendon of the tibialis posticus, and on the outer a tendinous structure may be seen, stretching from the tubercle on the posterior part of the os calcis to the projecting extremity of the metatarsal bone of the little toe. This structure may either be considered as a part of the abductor minimi digiti, or as a ligament. The fibrous bands on the upper and lower surfaces of the articulations between the tarsus and metatarsus, should next be exa- mined ; and when this is done, the different bones should be separated from each other. The metatarsal bones should first be cut for those of the tarsus, and the oblique course of this line of articulations, with the projection of the internal cuneiform bone, should be carefully no- ticed ; the scaphoid and cuboid bones should then be divided from the astragalus and os calcis, and each bone may then be separated from the others. A very strong ligament will be found between the lower surface of the astragalus and the upper surface of the os calcis, and the other bones will be found to be connected by numerous fibres, which, however, are too small to be described as separate ligaments. The articulations between the toes and metatarsal bones should next be dissected. The sesamoid bones, lateral ligaments, synovial membranes, and fibro-cartilaginous texture under each joint, will ap- pear, in most respects, like the corresponding parts in the hand, and it may now be remarked how very long the small toes appear when contrasted with their condition previously to dissection, the whole of the proximal phalanx having been actually covered by the soft tissues. The phalanges of the toes will be observed to be attached to each other in a similar way to the corresponding parts in the hand.