376 THE HEAD AND NECK. the thyroid cartilage; and lastly the junction between the mylo-hyoid muscles, with the anterior belly of the digastric on each side of the mesial line. To complete the dissection of the lower part of the neck, the clavicle should be removed at its articulation with the sternum, when a more perfect view than ever of the vena innominata on either side may thus be obtained, more especially on the right side,-where, in addition, the great artery, and also the subclavian, may be more accurately examined. In this latter proceeding the close proximity of these large vessels to the pleura cannot escape notice, more particularly if this membrane pro- jects much above the first rib. On either side of the neck the lower part of the carotid artery should be drawn outwards with a blunt hook, and by a slight dissection between the trachea and oesophagus, the recurrent branch of the par vagum may be discovered in its course towards the larynx. On the right, the connexion between this branch and the subclavian artery should be particularly noticed, and on either side, in making this examination, it will scarcely be possible to avoid the inferior thyroid artery, which may be seen passing up behind the sheath of the vessels towards the lateral lobes of that organ, which will, itself, be sufficiently conspicuous. The upper part of the neck may now be referred to again. The sterno-mastoid should be dissected upwards, which will permit a more free examination of the deep-seated important structures on the side of the neck. In raising the muscle and turning it towards the mastoid process, the spinal accessory nerve will be seen piercing its upper end, on its way towards the trapezius muscle. The external carotid and its branches should now be more completely laid bare, as far as the present removal of integuments will permit, and for this purpose the sub- maxillary and parotid glands may be either held upwards, as already described (p. 372), or freely divided. The lingual nerve (ninth) will thus be exposed where it crosses this artery and its branches, and the digastric and stylo-hyoid may either be left entire or divided—the former perhaps being best, as some further reference to relative posi- tion may still be desired. The superior thyroid artery should now be traced down to the gland, and perhaps in doing so one branch or more may be noticed coming off in the direction of the sterno-mastoid, which will probably have been cut across, in first exposing the common carotid artery. These branches are by no means regular, yet I have known the divi- sion of one of them on the living subject cause considerable annoyance in the operation for ligature of the carotid. Perhaps, too, in tracing the artery a branch may be seen running under the thyro-hyoid muscle to join a similar branch from the opposite side, on the erico-thyroid membrane; but it is seldom of such magnitude as to attract much attention. The lingual artery should next be traced, to the lower surface of the tongue : the length of that part between its origin and the posterior margin of the hyo-glossus muscle should be carefully noticed, and its relation to the ninth nerve, as also to the extre-