481 OPERATIONS ON THE UPPER JAWS. at first or afterwards found necessary, and though it is impossible to place them where they will not afterwards be seen, the disfigure- ment from such wounds is wonderfully little, more especially if com- pared -with the projection occasioned by large tumours in this part of the face. So far as my own experience enables me to judge, I should say that small tumours connected with the gums and alveoli can be more readily removed from the lower jaw than the upper, without the necessity of any wound in the lips. In the vicinity of the incisors this may readily be done by the application of the knife and forceps, but further back any attempt of the kind will be attended with great trouble to the surgeon, and probably much pain to the patient, in consequence of the stretching of the mouth and the necessity for more frequent application of the forceps than might be required were there a freer external opening. Supposing an operation demanded for a growth of the size of a walnut or larger, situated towards the anterior part of the maxilla, and there being an evident necessity for a larger external aperture than the natural size of the opening of the mouth, it may be accomplished in the following manner :—The patient being seated and his head supported by an assistant, or against the back of a chair, an incision should be made with a scalpel or bistoury from the margin of the upper lip to the root of the ala ; then the mucous mem- brane and cheek should be dissected off the tumour as far upwards and backwards as its bulk renders necessary; and possibly to effect this the external wound must be carried a little higher in a line straight upwards from that already present: then an incisor tooth and a bicuspid or molar must be extracted, and the point of the knife carried through the mucous membrane of the hard palate and every soft texture which it can reach, where it is intended to effect the separation : next the small saw (p. 474) should be applied to notch the alveoli in front and behind, and it may be well also to make a groove above the tumour with such a blade as this (fig. 218) (similar Fig. 218. to that usually termed 1 ley’s, or those figured in Scultetus) which from its limited length, and also from the narrowness of the stalk be- tween the blade and the handle, can be more readily used on such a part: then the cutting forceps should be applied, and the separation may thereby be completed. The different shapes of forceps already so frequently alluded to (p. 12) may be of great service on such an occa- sion, as, from the manner in which the blades are bent near the handles, they may be applied to some parts more conveniently than those which are straight. 2 i