CAUTERIES. 45 slough on the surface, an inch or more in length, and perhaps half the breadth, I generally bring a larger extent of surface under its influ- ence, by scoring the skin much in the same way as the operation of firing is done in the horse. The process is slower, and therefore more painful than a single touch of the instrument, but in some cases it presents such advantages, in my opinion, that, when the cautery is actually appealed to, the difference may be overlooked. I was first led to apply it in this way, from drawing some analogy between cer- tain nodes on the tibia and splints on the young horse. In such in- stances it is well known that when the animal continues lame for a length of time, and when stimulating ointments and blisters have seemingly had no effect, the application of the cautery effects a cure, more particularly if due rest is given afterwards. Although in most instances a painful node requires constitutional treatment as well as local, and differs in almost all respects from what is termed a splint in the lower animal, yet occasionally painful chronic swellings are met with on the surface of the tibia, which have resisted all the ordinary modes of treatment, internal as well as external. Many years ago a case of this kind occurred in my practice. A young man, aged twenty-three, had two years before contracted syphilis, and after the primary symptoms were cured, a node formed on the tibia, which occasioned him much pain:—from being a person of stout appear- ance, he now seemed like one exhausted by a painful and malignant disease. Before I saw him he had undergone various courses of mer- cury and other medicines, and had the part repeatedly leeched and blisiered. I again subjected him to similar practice, and also tried iodine freely, both internally and externally, but with no mitigation of his sufferings. Rest seemed to produce as little benefit, and his disease was worst at night. For six months I watched the progress of the case, and then I applied the cautery in the mode referred to, and such as is here represented by these lines (fig. 411), each being about half an inch from the other. Fig. 48. During the evening he slept better than he had done for three months before, and from that time his disease was cured. I saw him occa- sionally for years after, and he had never subse- quently experienced another twinge of pain in the swelling. I have had similar success in other examples; and though I would not wish any one to imagine, that I predict or would anticipate invariable success from the measure, I cannot but strongly recommend it, in such-like instances, especially where the affection seems to be, and perhaps is, entirely local. The following cut (fig. 49) exhibits the shape of the instrument I use on these occasions. It will be observed that it is similar to the cau- terising iron of the veterinary surgeon. The convex edge of the one I generally use is about one inch and a quarter in extent; but when I