361 AMPUTATIONS OF THE THIGH. Fig. 193. circumference, that, as I have already remarked with reference to amputations in the arm, the flaps may be taken from any opposite aspects, and I have frequently made them partly from the sides and partly from before and behind. Sometimes, as has actually occurred, it may be deemed requisite to have only one flap, and that may be taken from any side which is free from disease or injury. Dr. Little, of the Sligo County Hospital, has informed me of an instance in which he preserved a large single flap from behind,—the wound and cicatrix being thus, in some respects, like those after the single flap below the knee. Here possibly, as Dr. Little imagined, there may be an advantage in the cicatrix being in front of the bone, and thus less exposed to pressure whilst in the socket of a wooden leg. With such a flap I should cut away a considerable portion of the great sciatic nerve, so that it might not by any chance be brought to lie against the divided surface of the femur. I need scarcely add, that circular operations may be performed on any part of the lower limb; I shall not, however, describe any of them in particular, but will refer the reader to the introductory chap- ter on Amputation, especially to that part where this mode of pro- cedure is described. Although it is my opinion that casualties must follow circular operations more frequently in this extremity than those by Hap, I feel bound to say, that 1 have seen stumps of an admirable kind after the circular mode, both in the leg and thigh. Perhaps the rproper period to judge of the excellency of a stump is after the lapse of months or years, and the last case of the kind which has come under my notice is one below the knee (made, 1 believe, by my friend Mr. Rutherford Alcock in his Spanish campaign), which will bear a comparison with the most finished performance by the Hap. I have recommended the outside of the limb as being the best to stand upon in amputation of the thigh, and if the operation is to be done with anterior and posterior Haps in the upper third of the limb, ;t will be found that if the knife is passed from within outwards, the