THE INFERIOR EXTREMITY. 326 division of the tibial arteries in such subjects might be attended with more trouble. Of course I do not wish it to be understood that no heed should be taken of these vessels in the child; on the contrary, the utmost care should be taken to avoid such important parts; but this cannot always be done, and it may be satisfactory to the young surgeon to know, that if such an event does happen, he need not be in much alarm on that account. Whatever be the advantage of dividing tendons and other textures, (and there can be no doubt it is great,) the perfection of the cure de- pends much upon after-treatment, which consists chiefly of the adap- tation of apparatus to restore the foot, in a gradual manner, to its more natural position. Numerous pieces of mechanism have been used and recommended for this object; but for general purposes the foot-board of Stromeyer, or the boot recommended by Scarpa, for the treatment of distortion of the foot, long before these oper- ations on the tendons became so common, will be found of the greatest utility: the former consists of a board, which should ex- tend from the ham to the heel and somewhat lower, having a foot- piece which can be moved to any angle or inclination that may be desired, and Scarpa’s machine consists of a kind of shoe with a firm iron sole-plate, having a long rod of the same metal extending from it as high as the knee. Various improvements have been made on the latter by Dr. Little, Mr. Weiss, and others, which, however, need not be described here. Mr. Liston has delineated a very simple contrivance for these purposes (Practical Surgery, 3rd edition), and I believe that the splint, described at p. 303 in this volume, might be made to answer in most cases of the kind alluded to above. With one or other of them the foot may be gradually brought to a more seemly appearance, and to a greater degree of usefuhiess and strength; but much patience and ingenuity will occasionally be re- quired to effect the desired object. I have in some instances found a common pasteboard or wooden splint placed along the outside of the leg more effectual, or at all events more manageable in children, than either of them; whilst, on other occasions, I have been annoyed at the result, after the utmost patience and pains bestowed in every way. Figure 176, represents the talipes varus, alluded to at p. 323. The drawing below, (fig. 177,) exhibits the same foot, after the suc- cessful application of the knife and other means above referred to. The patient was treated in King’s College Hospital by Mr. Partridge. It has been a disputed point of practice in these cases, whether the apparatus should be applied immediately after the use of the knife, or not until the lapse of some days, or perhaps weeks. I should deem it improper to force the foot into the wished-for position at the cost of much pain to the patient, or the probable risk of severe laceration and inflammation; but I am of opinion, that the sooner after the incisions the attempts to improve the position of the parts are com- menced, the more speedily will the cure be effected. In the instances