434 TIIE HEAD AND NECK. made in the seat of the puncture and a ligature applied on the bleed- ing orifice. I have known two necessary, one above the other below, in consequence of the free anastomoses of the vessels in this situation. If infiltration has taken place, possibly some trouble might be expe- rienced in securing the vessel at this part, and perhaps the best course might be to make an incision about an inch in length above the root of tlie zygoma, over its course, and apply the ligature there. The vessel lies so close under the skin that its pulsations can usually be felt, and it will here be accompanied by one, or probably two, small veins, which of course should be held aside. Besides the operation above alluded to, the surgeon has occasionally to make incisions, in instances of erysipelas, suppuration, and for the removal of tumours. Unless erysipelatous inflammation has run on to suppuration, it is seldom that in this situation incisions are resorted to ; but when pus has formed there can be no doubt about the propriety of making them. No special rules are required for the guidance of the knife here, further than those referred to in the chapter on abscess. The same general observations which I have made regarding the removal of tumours in the introductory portion of this work will illustrate the mode of procedure in this region. Encysted tumours (wens as they are commonly called) are of most frequent occurrence here ; but sarcomatous growths are also occasionally met with. It is seldom that cysts are seen on the scalp above the size of a walnut or billiard-ball, nor are solid tumours often met with of great magni- tude. I have seen one of the latter kind larger than the fist removed from over the occiput. Occasionally such tumours are so fixed to the cranium, that the propriety of attempting their separation may well be called in question. If, however, there is reason to suppose that the growth is only on the surface, or, at all events, is not connected with the inner table or lining membrane, their removal may, under favour- able circumstances, be resorted to. There is a cast in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons of an enormous growth on the right side of the head, which was successfully removed by Sir Everard Home. The tumour extended from above the level of the right parietal bone as low as the shoulder of the same side, and greatly exceeded the size of the head. It consisted of “fat mixed with a steatomatous substance” towards the apex, “and wholly of bone” where it was connected with the right side of the os frontis, and although two operations were required, (one performed on the day succeeding to the other), the recovery was complete. The operation was done in October 1816, and the patient, having for a long time after acted as a nurse in St. George’s Hospital, yet lives. A drawing of the case is to be seen in Sir Everard’s tract “ On the Formation of Tumours.” Sarcomatous growths when of considerable size are usually in close contact with the pericranium, and this membrane often comes away with the mass. In the instances which came under my notice granulations sprung up from the bone ; but it is not difficult to con-