574 THE CHEST, ABDOMEN AND PELVIS. longer than what the forefinger will stop, and as the latter follows the course of the knife as soon as it is withdrawn, there will be as yet only a slight escape of urine ; but when the forceps are used the fluid will gush out at once, at which time, as already stated, the stone may probably be seized. Perhaps the most difficult part of the operation pertains to the use of the forceps. With such a narrow wound some care is required in slipping them towards the bladder, for otherwise their points might get between the prostate and rectum — indeed, even in using the forefinger there is danger of its passing in this direction. If a large opening be made in the back of the bladder the urine must escape before the forceps are introduced; but if it be small, as has been re- commended, the great gush will not take place until the blades enter the viscus, and if they are opened at this time there is every probabi- lity of the stone being carried between them by the force of the cur- rent, as well as the natural contraction of the bladder which usually throws it towards the neck. If the stone is not grasped at the period referred to, the blades must be closed and moved about until they toucli it, when they must again be opened and an attempt made to seize it. Now, however, the bladder, having contracted, will prevent the blades being opened so readily as before. I have often found it of service to give the forceps a kind of shake, which seems not only to make the stone fall between the blades, but also causes it to settle down, as it were, in the most favourable position in the concavity between the chops. In extracting, the movements should be slow, the hand should, if necessary, be carried up and down, and from side to side, and with such a degree of pulling as to cause the textures to yield gradually. Occasionally it may be of service to introduce the point of the left forefinger to force the parts slightly backwards ; and in all instances the prostate, and consequently the neck of the bladder, should be kept as much as possible in their natural position. In the different operations which I have witnessed, when there has been difficulty in extracting a stone of moderate size, or perhaps a little above the average, two circumstances have appeared to me as having had considerable influence in retarding the proceedings; first, the shape of the forceps, and next, the mode of using them. If the blades be short between the hinge and the points, as they often are, their wedge shape, when the stone is grasped, is too abrupt to cause that gradual dilatation which appears to me to be of so much consequence: the blades, besides being more apt to slip, are thus brought against the interior of the neck of the bladder most abruptly, when any force exerted at this time is more likely to bring the prostate against the rami of the pubes than to cause the expansion alluded to: moreover, the stone is now much less likely to come through than ever, as, in addition to the resistance of the gland the interval between the bones is so narrow that it may be physically impossible for it to pass while the parts are thus situated. If, however, the blades be made of a length and shape in proportion to those exhibited at page 570, the above difficulty may, in