DISLOCATIONS AND FRACTURES. 100 whether by the hands alone, or by the aid of different kinds of apparatus. The above remarks are almost equally applicable to fractures. Whether such injuries be simple or compound, each must be deemed a lacerated and contused wound, which must be followed by consider- able, if not severe, inflammation. So long as the fragments are not strictly in apposition, the greater will be the amount of local irritation. It is, I believe, a common practice with some, to wait until the in- flammatory swelling has in a great measure subsided, ere any attempt is made to set the fragments in their proper place. Others, at an early period, place the fragments and the whole limb in the position in which it is intended that they shall lie during the cure, but make no attempt to fix the parts by means of splints and bandages, until in- flammation and swelling have, in some degree, gone off. I believe that the latter plan is absolutely necessary in certain instances, and that the former may occasionally be deemed advisable; but, as a general rule, I feel satisfied that it is best not only to set the fracture (as is the technical term), but to apply such apparatus as may be deemed requisite, as soon after the surgeon sees the case as circumstances will permit. The admirable practical remarks of Mr. Pott, and of Sir James Earle, on this subject, seem to be overlooked by some practi- tioners of the present day, but the advantages of an early re-adjust- ment of parts must be so apparent, that it is scarcely necessary to quote such high authorities to enforce the practice. The smallest deviation of the fragments from their natural position, must be productive of greater irritation than when the broken surfaces are accurately opposed, and, therefore, with few exceptions, they should be so placed at the earliest possible date. I have no doubt that if all fractures were set within an hour of their occurrence, the subsequent inflammation and swelling would be less severe than, they usually are; but the surgeon, who is to be responsible for a case, may not see it for some days .after the accident, and it is in such instances, perhaps, that there may be doubt as to the propriety of immediate ad- justment. In fracture of the patella, for example, as will be after- wards stated more particularly, the fragments are usually separated from each other by the fluid which collects in the joint, and it is not until absorption takes place, that approximation can with propriety be accomplished. In the upper third of the thigh, too, the swelling from effused blood and inflammation is occasionally so great, that attempts to extend the limb are productive of little or no benefit. In such examples, however, by proper attention, the fragments may be at last placed in excellent position. In dislocation, as soon as reduction is accomplished, the need for the surgeon has almost ceased,—the act of reduction seems the chief part of his duty, and, moreover, it may be said that, in general, it is the only occasion on which any active interference on his part is re- quired. Not so, however, in fractures: the proper adjustment of the fragments only, as it were, begins the treatment, and, for weeks after,