AMPUTATION AT THE SHOULDER-JOINT. 235 the joint, more particularly from the axilla: here the surface is so irregular, that the wound must invariably be more or less puckered ; but this need cause no annoyance, nor must he imagine that, in conse- quence, the operation has been improperly performed. By attention to the dressing, the stump will speedily assume the resemblance of the figure; all projections and puckerings will disappear, and a uni- formly smooth surface will be the result. It will be observed that the acromion projects considerably ; but, so far as I have seen in these stumps, it is productive of no inconvenience. Were this the case, it might easily be removed, and a portion of the clavicle with it; but this I think should not be done, unless it is positively required, as the deficiency of breadth of shoulder, already so conspicuous, would thereby be rendered more apparent. Occasionally in amputations at the shoulder-joint it is requisite to remove parts of the clavicle and acromion, and probably more or less of the glenoid cavity or body of the scapula. No certain rules can be laid down for the performance of these additional steps, and the operator must therefore be guided by the nature and peculiarities of each case, and by the knowledge which he may possess of the relative anatomy. The celebrated instance recorded by Cheselden, of Wood the miller, who had his right arm and sca- pula tom off by machinery, and several of a similar kind which have been seen and recorded by Carmichael, Dorsay, and others, have exhibited the wonderful powers of nature in sustaining life, even after such frightful and extensive mutilations. Some years ago, during my connexion with the Royal Infirmary in Edinburgh, a boy about thirteen years old came under the care of Mr. Lizars, with the extremity, scapula, and one half of the clavicle, torn off by ma- chinery ; the skin on the side was also extensively removed. The axillary vessels and nerves hung loosely from the wound, but the bleeding was inconsiderable, the main artery being stretched, lace- rated, and filled with clots. There was no shock; a single ligature was placed on the subclavian, immediately outside of the scaleni, where it pulsated, and contained fluid blood ; the skin from before and behind was drawn as well together as its laxity would permit, and a rapid recovery ensued. In the museum at King’s College there is a preparation from which the figure (131) on the next page was taken. The patient, a lad fourteen years of age, was under the care of Mr. Cartwright, late surgeon to the Middlesex Hospital, and made a good recovery. So far as the mere shock produced on the system by operations for removal of so large a portion of the frame is to be taken into ac- count, the surgeon may be amply justified in resorting to their per- formance ; but it behoves him to consider well the nature of the case, before he proceeds to use the knife. It may be requisite, on some of these occasions, first to amputate at the shoulder-joint, and. afterwards proceed with the removal of diseased portions of bone ; or the surgeon may possibly make a laudable attempt to save the ex-