THE INFERIOR EXTREMITY’. 248 loose ends of the Y’arious muscles Yvhich haY’e been divided should also be removed or cut short ; the upper part of the adductor longus, the adductor bre\’is, and the pectineus, should now he cut through, either at their attachments to the pelvis or the femur, and then the obtura- tor externus may be dissected; the quadratus femoris must also be divided ere the tendon of this muscle can be traced to the digital fossa behind the trochanter major. The tendons attached to this fossa should next be divided, when the posterior part of the capsular liga- ment of the hip-joint will be brought into view: the gluteus minimus should be raised so as to display the upper part of the capsule, when by turning the subject, and dividing the iiiacus intemus and psoas muscles a little beloYv Poupart’s ligament, the anterior surface of the capsule will next be exposed. In dividing the tYvo last-named mus- cles, a bursa of considerable size will be noticed betYveen them and the margin of the pelvis; in some instances a communication exists be- tween it and the interior of the joint. The attachment of the capsular ligament to the margin of the cotyloid cavity and to the neck of the bone should next be displayed ; the knife should then be carried round the head of the femur through the capsule, when it will start out of its place, being no longer connected Yvith the pelvis, excepting by means of the round ligament, which will be seen attached by one extremity to the bottom of the cotyloid cavity, and by the other to the central depression on the head of the bone. The section of the capsular ligament will show that it is of great strength at the upper and outer parts of the joint, and the reverse at the lower and inner sides. The round ligament being divided, the prolongation of the synovial membrane on the neck of the femur should be examined, and the manner in which this portion of the bone is covered by a strong fibrous texture, apparently a reflection of part of the capsular ligament upwards, should also be carefully observed. When these instructions are followed out, and a glance taken at the cotyloid cavity,—due notice being taken of its additional depth in consequence of the pre- sence of the ligament which encircles its margin,—the examination of these parts may be deemed complete for the purposes in view. The remaining portion of the lower extremity must now be re- ferred to, and the articulations will chiefly demand attention. As it is of little consequence which of the joints is first dissected, that of the knee may be selected. The popliteal vessels and nerves may first be remoY’ed; and, in doing so, the branches given off by the artery in this situation may be traced. The main trunk will be observed to lie on the posterior liga- ment of the articulation, and this band of fibres will be seen to be a reflection of a portion of the tendon of the semi-membranosus muscle : in addition to this structure, however, the synovial capsule will be observed to be covered with additional ligamentous fibres, passing in various directions from one bone to the other. The ligament of the patella, the anterior surface of this bone and the tendon of the rectus should next be cleaned; the tendinous expansions of the vasti mus-