DISSECTIONS OF THE NECK. 371 dition, the clavicular portion of the sterno-mastoid may he divided close to the hone, and then by turning the separated portion a little aside, the anterior scalenus may be more clearly exposed. The transversalis colli and supra-scapular arteries will now be more completely seen, particularly if a little cellular texture be removed; and, in addition, the ascending cervical may also be per- ceived running upwards along the inner margin of the muscle. The phrenic nerve may likewise be observed on the inner margin of the scalenus. The muscle should now be cut across, from its outer margin, and by this proceeding it will be seen that a considerable additional portion of the artery will be brought into view: it may also be ob- served that the division of the fibres will, with ordinary caution, be accomplished without risk of injuring either phrenic nerve or the arteries which cross the muscle. Perhaps, now, the deep cervical branch of the subclavian may be brought into view, as this vessel often arises from the main artery between the scaleni muscles: pos- sibly, however, it may have been seen at an earlier period of the dis- section, in front of the cervical nerves, or dipping between them in its course backwards. During all these dissections the external jugular vein may have been left untouched, but it will generally be of advantage to divide it, a couple of inches above the clavicle, at an early period of the proceedings. Several veins will also have been noticed passing obliquely downwards and forwards through the triangular space, which may, with the jugular, have been left or removed at will. The internal margin of the sterno-mastoid should now be examined. The semi-tendinous attachment to the sternum should be cleared, and the margin of the muscle for several inches upwards should be ac- curately made out. The cellular membrane covering the sterno-hyoid and the stemo-thyroid muscles should then be removed, and notice should be taken of the considerable hollow now left on the inner margin of the sterno-mastoid. In making the last part of the dissection, various veins may have been met with in their course downwards through the loose fat and cellular substance which occupy the hollow alluded to. About midway between the sternum and the hyoid bone, the upper belly of the omo-hyoid will be observed, passing obliquely upwards to the body of that bone. This muscle should be cleaned up to its attachment, and the anterior belly of the digastric should also be cleaned, between the hyoid bone and its attachment to the lower jaw. The cellular membrane between the line formed by these two muscles in front, and the sterno-mastoid be- hind (being part of the superficial fascia), should now be raised, and thus the anterior margin of the last named muscle, with a large portion ot both the parotid and sub-maxillary glands, will be brought into view. In making this part of the dissection, it may be remarked that the fascia is here of considerable density and firmness. It may now be observed that between the base of the lower jaw and