THE HEAD AND NECK. 308 arch of the aorta, and pass to the right, between the trachea and (esophagus, or even behind the latter tube; he afterwards found that it sprang from the innominata, only a little further back than usual; but, in truth, the vessel often does curve back in this situation. Irregularities in the origin and course of the right sub- clavian, such as those alluded to, have frequently been met with by anatomists, and Mr. Harrison refers to a case where the right sub- clavian, passing between the trachea and oesophagus, was opened by ulceration, occasioned by a fish-bone sticking in the gullet, when fatal hemorrhage ensued. The right carotid, too, has its irregularities. It has been seen originating from the arch of the aorta ; and in such a case it will be perceived that it cannot be a guide either to the inno- minata or subclavian. The innominata, as I have already stated, may be long or short ; and it was probably from the latter circumstance that a Leipzig surgeon, instead of tying the main vessel, as he in- tended, placed the ligature on the carotid and subclavian at the same time ; it may give off the left carotid, as well as the two large vessels on the right side ; and in such a case, besides the danger of wounding the branch going to the left, as it lies in front of the trachea, its origin might be exactly in the situation where the surgeon might wish to place the ligature. He might hesitate to apply it immediately above the left carotid, for fear of the circulation preventing or breaking ad- hesions in the seat of deligation; on the other hand, were he to place it below, he might dread the effect of arresting the flow of blood through both carotids and right subclavian at the same time. Con- sidering how seldom this irregularity has been seen, it must be admitted that such an emergency as that now referred to will be rare indeed. Were such a case to occur to me, however, I imagine (thinking quietly of it at the present moment), that I should prefer obstructing all three. We know that in the lower animals both carotids may be obstructed by ligatures at the same time, and there is reason to suppose that such a step might be hazarded on the human subject (p. 393). We also know, however, that obstruction of both carotids and vertebrals at the same time produces death, if con- tinued for a very brief period only, (the exhibition of the ex- periment was a favourite subject with Sir Astley Cooper in his latter years,) and in such a case, then it would assuredly be well to try the effect of compression on the innominata before tightening the ligature. If it appeared that the patient could not suffer the obstruc- tion, then the surgeon might console himself as Sir Charles Bell did when he came on the double femoral artery, by the reflection that he could not be held responsible for all nature’s irregularities ; and even in such a plight he might, for the time, at all events, keep in mind the remarkable case to which I have already referred, where Mr. Porter, after exposing the innominata and finding it diseased, gave up the idea of securing it with a ligature, in which, nevertheless, the artery afterwards became permanently obstructed, and cure of the aneurism in the subclavian was the result. The external carotid, or some of its branches, occasionally require