303 FRACTURES. at p. 295, whereby an apparatus might be produced well adapted for all the ordinary examples of these accidents in the lower extremity, whether in the bones of the leg, the patella, or femur. Mr. Weiss has lately constructed such an instrument; and it seems to me so simple, both in its form and application, and at the same time so likely to be efficient, that I think it well worthy of further trials than I have yet had an opportunity of giving it. Figure 165 presents an out- Fiy. 165. line of this splint: the bars and foot-place consist of iron, the screws of brass ; the long bar is of an average length to extend between the knee and sole of the foot ; the board is so attached, that it can be slid up- wards or downwards at will, and then be fastened by the side-screw ; it can also be moved in a lateral direction, so as to evert or invert the toes ; and moreover it can be placed at such a distance from the splint at the ankle as may be found best suited to the thickness of the patient's limb. The cross-bar below prevents the member from rolling outwards or inwards, and, by means of the screw, the side-splint and foot may be raised or depressed, as may be found most convenient. This bar can be attached to the screw at the knee, where it mil sometimes be found to answer best; or two may be used, one above and one below, each being of service to raise the part above it to any required height. In the cut a small portion of another side-bar is exhibited ; this is of the same size and shape as that delineated, and is intended to act as a thigh-splint, in cases of fracture here, or when it may be desired to apply extension in fracture of the leg. It can be firmly attached to the other portion at the knee ; and when the upper end is fastened to the pelvis by a circular strap, and another under the perineum, as with Desault’s apparatus, the whole, though apparently much more slender, is equally firm, and as secure as can possibly be required for the generality of cases. Pads and bandages similar to those applied with tlie splints above described must, of course, be used here also. Perhaps I may err in my estimate of some of the advantages of this simple contrivance; yet I think they are such as deserve the consider- ation of many practitioners. The cost is, I believe, less than for any