•201 INCISIONS. EXCISIONS. the sheath of the flexors of the middle finger: there was a consider- able swelling extending the length of the two proximal phalanges, which prevented the patient from closing her hand : an incision about an inch in length permitted the escape of several hundred of these lit- tle objects, when, by accurately closing the wound and keeping the finger steady on a straight splint for a few days, the incision closed, and a cure was the result. Here I would not have made the orifice of such length, had I not known that the swelling had been twice punctured before with a lancet, which, however, only allowed the fluid to escape, whilst the bodies, being retained, acted as the cause of future effusions. Little ganglionic tumours have occasionally been noticed on the knuckles, supposed to be developed in small lmrs;e, which arc said to occupy these situations; but I have not myself met with any cases of the kind. Over the olecranon, however, I have seen well-marked examples. Although it may be doubted whether a bursa occupies this situation in all individuals, it cannot be denied that, in many who are in the habit of leaning much on this part, such a condition obtains, and the swelling is liable to attacks of inflammation, simi- lar in most respects to those which are seen in the bursa over the patella. The condition, from being seen so often in those who work on the side in low-roofed mines, has received the appellation of “ Miners’ Elbow.” The treatment may be conducted according to rules inculcated in other parts of this volume, more especially with re- gard to the affection familiarly known as “ the house-maid’s knee,” to be afterwards noticed in the section on the inferior extremity. The bursa under the acromion is rarely the seat of disease, and un- less it be to caution the young practitioner against mistaking such a case for disease of the shoulder-joint, I know of no observations pecu- liarly applicable to such cases, further than those detailed in other pages. In my remarks on fractures of the upper extremity, I have exhibit- ed a drawing of a false joint in the ulna, succeeding to such an injury. 1 lere it might be thought advisable in the course of treatment to ex- pose the callous- surfaces by means of incisions, and then to treat them in the manner recommended in the chapter on false joints. In such an operation, if the radius was entire, it might be difficult to evert the fragments. Any portion of the bone might be easily reached with- out touching important parts, by dividing the skin along the ulnar side of the limb. The radius, however, could not so easily be ex- posed ; indeed, unless in its lower-third, it could not be got at without dividing muscles, and wore the false joint so placed I should in most instances question the propriety of interfering in this way at all, as I cannot imagine that non-union would cause such serious inconveni- ence as to necessitate such a proceeding. That the surgeon may occasionally interfere, however, in this way must be admitted, for an interesting case of the kind is related in the London and Edinburgh Monthly Journal of Medical Science for October 1841, where resection