INFLAM NATION. 53 lating diet might produce those very results which it is the object of the surgeon to obviate, viz., an excess of inflammatory action. In certain kinds of inflammation, and in certain stages, a full amount of nourishment, both in the way of food and drink, may be productive of the utmost service ; and where digestion and assimilation seem to go on favourably, and whilst the disease seems to improve, it will rarely happen that the practitioner is wrong in permitting their use. In severe local inflammation, such as that of carbuncle, occurring in a debilitated constitution, accustomed perhaps for years to the ar- tificial stimulus of ardent spirits, the latter dare not be omitted ; and if the stomach will bear the additional excitement of a generous and wholesome diet, the system will bear up more vigorous^ against the depressing effects of disease. Again, in cases of profuse discharge happening at any period of life, nourishing food and a fair proportion of stimulating fluids will be of advantage, provided always that the indulgence does not seem in any way to aggravate the ailments of the patient. At such a period possibly hectic fever may exist, and might be aggravated by an over-liberal allowance. It is, however, impossible to offer set rules as applicable to all kinds of cases, and much must be left to the good sense of the practitioner and discretion of the attend- ants, or of the patient himself. Among the educated classes, the surgeon has seldom any difficulty in having his wishes and orders fulfilled to the letter; but in the lower ranks it is often necessary to be exceedingly strict and cautious. The local treatment of inflammation constitutes the peculiar feature of practice, in a large proportion of cases of this disease, which come under the surgeon’s care. In many instances the administration of a purge, and some slight modification of diet, such as an intelligent pa- tient might himself adopt, may form all the constitutional treat- ment required. Local abstraction of blood seems almost always to have a more decided effect on the disease than when a large vein is opened at a distant part ; thus in inflammation of the. testicle, of a joint, a bursa, or, in short, any similar local forms of the affection, and whether depending upon a local or constitutional cause, this mode of depletion is, in my opinion, more to be depended upon than the other, although here also there are many exceptions to a general rule. Sometimes, indeed most frequently, it is impossible to reach the actual seat of the disease, as in inflammation within the cranium, the eyes, the ears, spine, hip-joint, and other articulations; yet in such exam- ples if blood be drawn from the temporal artery or external jugular vein,—from over the mastoid process, the spine, or fleshy part of the hip, more benefit will, in general, result from operations on these parts than by opening a vein at the arm. In severe forms of the disease, both may be combined. In erysipelas, or in severely inflamed wounds or ulcers of the skin, or of certain parts of the mucous membranes, local depletion, in the strictest sense of the term, can be applied, and in such instances the effects are usually very beneficial.