WOUNDS. 96 sions of blood, it would in general be improper to make an incision for its escape : this should be done only when it has become evident that it is a source of irritation, and that it is not likely to be absorb- ed. In sprains and slight contusions, the ecchymosis (or, in other words, the effusion of blood) invariably disappears. In simple frac- tures and dislocations the extravasation is always absorbed in the progress of time, as it is also in the instance of thrombus, which occurs during venesection when the orifice in the skin is not kept directly over that in the vein. Inflammation is the inevitable consequence of all wounds, however trivial, or whatever their magnitude. Sometimes the action following a puncture with a needle or a lancet is so imperceptible,—the ordinary symptoms of inflammation being scarcely appreciable, that some have disputed this point. In a wound healing by the first intention, that in venesection, for instance, the process which Hunter named “ adhesive inflammation,” has been asserted by John Bell and others, to be differ- ent from that of inflammation. The difference, however, seems to me to be more in degree than in quality. Adhesive inflammation is, perhaps, the mildest of all forms of this disease, and the nearer the approach to it in a case of wound, so much the better is it, in general, for the success of the treatment. The immediate removal of every cause of irritation, in so far as this may be possible, is, therefore, an excellent general rule of practice. Some foreign substances, which must of necessity be left, as ligatures and stitches, are known to produce a very small additional amount of irritation, which is, how- ever, amply compensated for by their own merits; but in the case of a poisoned wound, such as the bite of a poisonous snake, or of a rabid dog, when its mysterious influence on the system is too often ungo- vernable, the surgeon cannot too speedily resort to such measures as may destroy the poison ere it enters the system. Hence the advan- tage of an early application of the caustic, cautery, or even excision of the bitten part. But as some of these doctrines are more fully illustrated elsewhere, I need not dwell on generalities here. In some incised wounds, and, indeed, in all of any other kind, with but few exceptions, the chief object to be kept in view is to pro- cure union by the first intention. To forward this desirable occurrence, the wound must be cleared as completely as possible of all extraneous matter. A soft sponge and warm water must be used, to wipe away blood, and every other material likely to prevent the surfaces coming accurately in contact. Such a number of ligatures having been applied as may be thought advisable, in the manner and according to the views, already described, their ends being left out at some convenient part of the wound, the surfaces must be carefully, approximated, and held together by means of stitches, straps, and bandages, as may be deemed most convenient. The method of treating a wound for the purpose of encouraging early union, has been, in part, referred to already, in my observations on stitches, and will be still further illus- trated^ in describing the treatment of stumps immediately after ampu-