441 OPERATIONS ON LACHRYMAL PASSAGES. be detached from the bone, above and below this wound ; next the organ should be seized with a volsellum such as that here represented (fig. 202), and then the point of the knife should be carried between the eyelids and ball, so as to divide the conjunctiva ; when, by carry- ing it deeper, and moving the disease from side to side with the vol- sellum held in the left hand, the removal may be completed by divid- ing the muscles, optic nerve, and other textures. It will seldom happen that there is either difficulty or trouble in this proceeding ; and the hemorrhage will probably be easily commanded by stuffing the orbit after the operation with charpie or pledgets of lint. After- wards caution must be taken to avert or subdue any high degree of inflammation, which, as may readily be perceived, must be more hazardous here than in many other regions. Whether the tumour be large or small, the same style of operation will answer ; if it is of great magnitude, there will be no necessity for the instrument to keep it steady, as the fingers alone may suffice for this; but whenever the growth is entirely confined within the eyelids, the hooks, as represented in the sketch, will, in my opinion, be found superior to any other. In rare instances it may be requisite to remove portions of the eyelids at the same time ; but in general a surgeon would be loath to interfere in this way with a case where the disease had extended so far. The student may, on the dead subject, practise the introduction of instruments into the lachrymal passages. By examining the little projecting angle near the inner extremity of each eyelid, the puncta may be observed, and a bristle with a smooth end may be pushed into each, when, by conducting it in a horizontal direction, it will pass along the lachrymal canal into the sac, and possibly into the nasal duct; the point of a slender pin may be used in the same manner, or a small silver probe, such as that recommended by Anel. These proceedings are occasionally required on the living body, in conse- quence of obstructions either from thickened mucus or from stricture. Next the nasal canal can be examined from below upwards, by means of a common-sized silver probe. To effect this, the instrument should be bent at a right angle, about three fourths of an inch from its point, then this part should be carried along the floor of the nostril, until it arrives below the anterior extremity of the inferior turbinated bone ; next it should be turned upwards, when, with a gentle move- ment, it will slip into the lower orifice of the passage, and may then be pushed higher, until it causes the skin to project a little below the inner canthus. The probe may now be removed ; and if the eyelid, and particularly the orbicular muscle, be drawn towards the malar bone, a round cord-like projection will become apparent, below which if a puncture be made with a lancet, scalpel, or bistoury, in a direction downwards and slightly towards the nose, the lachrymal sac will be opened, when a straight probe can be pushed from the orifice down into the nostril. Somewhat similar manoeuvres may be required on the living subject,