SINUS. fif! however, as for instance, the space below the skin may he so ample, that a reasonable surgeon would dread exposing so great a surface, as well as the infliction of a wound sufficiently large to open all the interior; or perhaps the sinus may run where he does not wish to make incisions, as in the face or neck of a young female, or possibly under some large blood-vessel, or other important part. In such in- stances, if a persistence in the mode by pressure and stimulating in- jections, above recommended, does not succeed, possibly the introduc- tion of a thread or seton may have the desired effect. Its presence for a few days will induce new inflammatory action, which may end, after the withdrawal of the thread, in the closing of the track. I have sometimes found this plan most serviceable; but it cannot al- ways succeed, and should only, as 1 think, be resorted to when the knife cannot be applied. The thread, which may be of hemp, silk, or worsted, and of a size proportioned to the calibre of the sinus, may he introduced by means of the common probe, such as seen at p 17 ; the thread being attached to the eye, the point of the instrument should be passed through the subcutaneous space, and caused to project where it is desirable to bring it out; an incision should then be made upon it, — a simple puncture will generally suffice to let it pass to the surface, when it should be seized by the fingers, drawn out through the wound, and the thread, which has followed its course, may be left, with ends of equal length hanging out of each aperture. Although I strongly recommend a free opening with a cutting in- strument, in the ordinary treatment of abscesses, there are certain in- stances when such practice is objectionable, or, at the least, of ques- tionable utility. In large abscesses the system may not bear up against the extensive inflammation and its consequences which must follow the exposure of so large a surface; and it is good practice in such cases to ascertain in how far the cyst or sac of the abscess may be made to diminish by gradually' lessening the quantity of fluid. This is the object in view in resorting to such means as are supposed to produce absorption ; but, as these are so seldom of service, it may be done by evacuating the contents gradually, and at different pe- riods, through small punctures with the lancet or bistoury, after the manner recommended by Abemethy. If, for example, a lumbar abscess, pointing in the groin or loins, be opened by means of a small oblique puncture, a considerable quantity of the fluid may be allowed to escape, as much perhaps as the natural elasticity of the parts will cause to flow out, and then the little wound be closed so as to heal by the first intention, the patient may, after the lapse of twenty-four hours, when the aperture may be supposed to have permanently, healed, be in no respect injuriously affected by the proceeding, but will have probably six or twelve ounces less fluid in the abscess. If similar proceedings be repeated again and again, each one in succession being done before the disease has attained the size it may have had on the occasion immediately preceding, then, at last, the cavity may have dimi-