104 FALSE JOINTS. hopes of a more favourable action coining on, as in the case of a com- pound fracture where necrosis has ensued, when he must allow time for the separation of the dead portion. In one constitution, consoli- dation will take place much more rapidly than in another; but we cannot calculate with certainty on the period that may be required for this event, either on the score of constitution or age, excepting in the latter case, when fracture occurs under puberty or in early infancy, for then we know that the formation of callus goes on more rapidly than at any other period of life. I have treated several examples of frac- ture which had taken place during birth, and have remarked how speedily the fragments have become firm. I have seen one instance to the contrary, however, where a false joint in the leg was formed in early life, which at first caused lameness and deformity, and ulti- mately, as the patient’s weight increased, necessitated amputation. In certain parts of the body, and under certain circumstances, a false joint is almost sure to be the result of fracture, and is in some degree desirable, as, for instance, in fracture of the neck of the thigh- bone, where it is seldom expected that bony union will ensue; more- over, such a result in this situation, and in advanced years, when the accident occurs most frequently, is as good as need be desired ; but there are few other parts of the extremities where false joint is attended with so little trouble or inconvenience. A case has been referred to by Mr. Marshall where a recruit passed the ordinary ex- amination as to his physical condition, who had a false joint in the fore-arm. I have myself seen one instance where a similar state caused but little inconvenience ; but, in general, if the fragments re- main disunited in the leg, thigh, or upper arm, there must be such a loss of power as to induce the patient to submit to any reasonable proceeding on the part of the surgeon, to bring about consolidation. My opinion regarding false joints, whether resulting from fractures or dislocations, will be found at greater length in future pages, where I shall speak of particular cases; meantime I may here state, that in the treatment of non-union, I would resort to almost any reasonable measure before I would cut down to the parts, as was done by White. After the lapse of six, eight, or ten weeks, I would resort to friction of the ends of the fragments against each other, gentle or active, according to circumstances, and after exciting increased action in this way, I would again, for a time (ten or fifteen days), keep the parts still, as in the first stage of the treatment. If this did not suffice, then I would allow the patient to move about a little, desiring him, if the fracture was in the ami or fore-arm, to use the limb as he might feel inclined, and if in the lower extremity, permitting him to rest upon the part at will. Here, perhaps, I might resort to the starch bandage, and should success be still wanting, I would next use a blister or a seton. I have, on several occasions, seen this last method resorted to, and have remarked the difficulty of passing the thread between the fragments, as was originally done by l)r. Physick : but I do not con- sider it absolutely necessary that it should be between them, as I