87 CHAPTER XIX. ERYSIPELAS. There are few inflammations in which the surgeon is more in- terested than in those exhibited in the different forms of erysipelas. Whether the disease occurs spontaneously, or follows operations, or accidental injuries, there may be the like need for his services. The treatment of this disease,—whether it occurs in the form of erythema, with merely a blush of red on the surface,—in that of a more active inflammation of the skin, as in common erysipelas,—or in that termed phlegmonous, where suppuration in the subcutaneous cel- lular texture and sloughing always occur, may be conducted with ad- vantage, according to the mode of practice which I have inculcated as applicable to the ordinary kinds of inflammation. At first the usual means to evacuate the bowels, and cause moisture of the skin, should be exhibited : often, more especially when the disease is spontaneous, and where the patient seems bilious, an emetic will be of service: sometimes opiates may be of advantage, and it rarely happens that blue pill and opium will not be beneficial. In some instances stimu- lants may be deemed requisite at an early period of the disease, al- though they are generally of greater service in the shape of tonics and generous diet, towards the latter stages of treatment. Constitutional treatment, in some shape or other, is invariably of service, but local measures are probably most essential. I have myself little faith in those which are said by some to check the progress of the disease in a sudden, specific, and mysterious manner,—such as the free use of nitrate of silver, applied either on the inflamed surface, by way of dispelling the affection at once, or in the vicinity to check its progress, and prevent it extending further on the surface than a line marked out by the caustic; neither do I place reliance on blisters over the affected parts, nor on pressure by bandages or otherwise. It can- not be denied that erythema and simple erysipelas have disappeared under the use of such means, but it does not follow that the enre is to be attributed to them ; doubtless in many instances the circum- stance has been overlooked, that these conditions, so soon as they are developed, have a natural tendency to disappear, and it is probably in such cases that the marvellous effects of these measures have been evinced. Treat two cases, or any equal numbers of a similar affection, one with nitrate of silver, another with such remedies as I have re- commended for inflammation, and in all probability the results will be nearly alike under either method of treatment; in the one, however, there will be no affectation of suddenly arresting the progress of the disease, which must of necessity run a certain course, whilst with the other there is an assumption of power on the part of the surgeon, which, in reality, he does not possess. I have similar objections to