INCISIONS. EXCISIONS. 1.0.0 recommend that a free opening should be made in the skin, and that even a portion of the lower margin of the large pectoral muscle should be divided, instead of attempting such manoeuvres through a small aperture on the surface. It will be found difficult to hold and elevate the diseased glands, either with the fingers, hooks, blunt or sharp, or with the common dissecting forceps ; and, in preference to the plan of passing a needle and thread through them, using the volsellum or any other method with which I am acquainted, I now make use of the hook-beaked forceps, represented at p. 27, which will be found exceedingly service- able in removing small tumours in any region of the body. In giving these directions, and speaking so familiarly, as it were, of removing enlarged glands from the axilla, as part of the operation for excision of the mamma when affected with malignant disease, 1 beg it to be clearly understood, that I am by no means an advocate for the use of the knife, when, in such cases, the axilla has become the seat of malignant action. There are some occasions, however, when the glands are but slightly enlarged (perhaps merely from irritation) and loosely connected, on which it may reasonably be deemed advisable to operate, and it is in such instances (and where the glands ought not to be left on the mere supposition that irritation is the sole cause of their enlargement), that the above directions are applicable. CHAPTER VII. INCISIONS. EXCISIONS. Besides the incisions already recommended for operations on the arteries, there are many others required in practice, some of which may be performed on the dead subject. Thus, before the limb is mutilated by any amputation, incisions may be made in the course of some of the nerves. A wound, about an inch in length, may be made along one margin of the palmar surface of a finger, so as to lay bare a digital twig. An incision about one inch and a half in length may be made between the flexor carpi radialis and the flexor sublimis, a little above the annular ligament, so as to expose the me- dian nerve in this situation. Such operations are occasionally required in cases of tic douloureux; and some years ago 1 assisted my friend. Dr. James Simson of Edinburgh, to perform the one last referred to, in an instance in which the nerve had been cut across by accident, about an inch above the wrist, where it was proposed to restore its continuity, and thus, perhaps, the lost sensibility of the side of the hand supplied by its branches. The ends of the nerve were found in the cicatrix; but unfortunately, a small tumour, such as is occasion- ally seen on nerves after amputation, had formed on the extremity