549 INFILTRATION OF URINE. be seldom resorted to when an instrument can, with tact and reason- able force, be pushed onwards without any external incision ; perhaps the most legitimate cases are those where, besides the obstructed con- dition of the urethra, infiltration is present (a no unusual complica- tion), or where there are fistulous openings connected with the ure- thra. Recently I have deemed it right, with two of my patients, to resort to this practice. In one, healthy and middle-aged, there were total retention, old Astute, and slight effusion of urine: a catheter coidd not be introduced: the circumstances not appealing favourable for forcing a passage, I accordingly cut in the perineum, carried the catheter onwards, and the patient made an excellent recovery. The other was a man advanced in years, who had long suffered from stric- ture and urinary fistute; the scrotum and skin of the penis were greatly swelled, and in that condition termed “ solid oedema” ; a ca- theter was introduced here also, by aid of a wound in the perineum, but the injury inflicted was followed by fatal inflammation in and around the neck of the bladder. When the urethra has been burst by external violence, or has given way behind an obstruction, and infiltration is present, there should be no hesitation about making free incisions ; they will afford the patient the only chance of life, in all probability ; for although in good constitutions recoveiy does take place in some, although the urine has made its own way to the surface, such examples are few in proportion to the numerous instances where death is the result of this condition, even when free openings for the escape of urine have actually been made. Urinary infiltration is most frequently seen in those advanced in years, and perhaps also with otherwise debilitated constitutions ; hence probably the frequent fatal results ; but even in the young the danger is imminent. The most remark- able case of recovery from this state, which I have ever witness- ed, occurred in a hoy about nine years old, who had impervious stricture (resulting from an injury of the perineum), in whom the urethra gave way behind the obstruction. The perineum and scrotum were much distended, and the urine had passed in front of the pubes into the cellular tissue under the skin of the hypogastric region ; a deep wound was made on the left side of the perineum, as if for litho- tomy, up to the prostate gland, without, however, entering its sub- stance ; the urine escaped freely, and although incisions were also required for suppuration in each groin, above Poupart’s ligament, the boy survived, and ultimately, by attention to the urethra, a good cure was effected. Occasionally in some of these cases the whole scrotum sloughs and the testicles (each, however, covered by the tunica vaginalis) are laid bare. Such a condition is sometimes seen to follow the operation for hydrocele, where the port wine injection has been thrown into the cellular tissue instead of the serous cavity. If the patient survives until sloughing is established, although the result may remain long doubtful, recovery usually takes place.