40 LEECHES. CUPPING. the face the lancets might leave unseemly scars, and, in addition, the glasses could not be advantageously applied, owing to the irregularity of the surface. Here, therefore, leeches are to be preferred, as in the case of ophthalmia, when they are set on the eyelids. I know of no objection to leeches on any part of the body under circumstances requiring local depletion, excepting such as reason might dictate; yet the latter seems with some to admit of most unbounded liberties, for I have known a person allow a leech to fasten on the cornea, in an instance where the surgeon had ordered a number to be applied to the eyelids. To those who know that the wound inflicted by the bite of this animal would be certain to occasion opacity of this transparent part, (and what Tyro in the profession should not know the likely result of such an injury ?) it may appear supererogatory to limit the bite of the leech to the skin, or at most, to the mucous mem- brane of the eyelids, or that covering the sclerotic; but the mistake above alluded to, must, with them, plead my excuse for offering an advice to others who may be less familiar with such matters. With this exception, and the still more apparent one of not placing these animals on such parts as may enable them to crawl out of sight into any of the cavities, I know of no instance where they may not be applied. I have used them extensively on the raw surface of ulcers, and also on parts affected with erysipelas, and have never had reason to trace the slightest harm from their application: in the former case, I have had much reason to be satisfied with their services; and in the latter, I have never seen a single example where mortification of the bitten part could be attributed to the injury of the leech bite. The necessity for diligent fomentation after the use of lancets, or the application of leeches, ought not to be forgotten, nor should the difficulty of arresting the bleeding from the bites of the latter be overlooked. In the adult it can scarcely be imagined that prolonged bleeding from one or more of these wounds can ever be productive of harm ; but in an infant, after a leech has been applied, there may be danger; or, at all events, the continued oozing may be a source of much alarm to the parents and attendants: in such a case, if any ordinary astringent, such as cold air, cold water, solutions of the sul- phates of alum, zinc, or copper, which may be at hand, will not check the flow of blood, the lunar caustic may be used, or what will be still more certain, a fine needle may be thrust across the skin in the seat of the wound, and a thread tied over it, as in making the twisted suture (p. 33): indeed, I believe that this plan will be pro- ductive of less pain to the little patient than the caustic.