17 AND OPERATIONS. ever, lie must economize his forces, which he will have little difficulty- in doing, if he be possessed of that natural coolness, aptitude in emergencies, and knowledge of what he is about, which are almost equally essential to the welfare _. j ^ of his patient and his own comfort. There are various instruments and apparatus in constant use in operations on the living body, which are but rarely used either in dissections, j or in operations on the subject, with which, nevertheless, the young surgeon requires to be- come acquainted, and which I think, may, in a work of this kind, be advantageously referred to at the present time. The probe (fig. 18), which is here represented of its ordinary shape but slightly diminished in size, being usually about five inches in length, is a simple instrument of great service in the practice of surgery. With it the course of deep wounds and sinuses, the presence of foreign bodies, the condition of bones, and a va- riety of important knowledge can be ascertained : it is of use in many operations, and though the finger is a preferable probe, when its presence is admissible, the silver rod is altogether so serviceable, that the surgeon cannot possibly dis- pense with its use. It ought to be made of pure silver, so that it will not readily break on being bent: one extremity (the point) is rounded off, and a little larger than the body, the other is > generally made with a slit (or eye), through which a thread may be passed, when it is wished to employ the probe for the purpose of drawing a thread or seton through a sinus, passing a ligature under an artery, or for other objects, as shall be more particularly stated after- wards. Other metals are occasionally substi- tuted for silver, and other shapes and sizes may be required to track a sinus or wound, or to detect a deep-seated foreign substance. The sound or searcher, which is used to detect a stone in the bladder, is a modification of the probe adapted to the peculiar circumstances of the case ; but, for ordinary purposes, that now referred to, is best adapted for the surgeon’s pocket-case of instruments. c