THE HEAD AND NECK. •108 but seemed so alarmed at the approach of medical men, that I almost despaired of being able to attempt anything for her relief. By kind management, however, she was induced to submit to another opera- tion, when I succeeded in extracting the plum-stone. Before the proceeding it had been ascertained that the object moved between the bifurcation and upper end of the trachea: this was most distinctly noticed when the forefinger and thumb were placed one on each side of the larynx, for then, if she was desired to cough, the impulse of the stone was felt as it struck the narrow part .above. My friends, Drs. Spittal and Henderson (both well known as accomplished ste- thoscopists), who examined the case with me, felt more satisfied in this way than by auscultation. After making the wound in the trachea, I introduced a slender pair of forceps, similar to those already recommended, and for a time was unsuccessful in my object: the stone seemed to move upwards and downwards alongside of the blades, and at last, under this impression, and at a time when I imagined that it was at the lower part of the tube, I opened the blades and held them so until the next expiration, when I closed them suddenly and thus caught the object, which was then extracted with a slight pull. Immediately all annoyance ceased ; the wound closed almost entirely by the first intention, and every danger being apparently over, the patient, eleven days after was permitted to go into the country. Here, however, she seemingly had caught cold, and three weeks after- wards she died of difficulty of breathing, occasioned, from what I could subsequently learn of her history, by swelling of the mucous membrane of the larynx. My limits will not permit me to dwell longer on these matters; but I cannot avoid again drawing attention to Mr. Porter’s treatise, in which numerous cases illustrative of the affections of the larynx and trachea will be found, accompanied by practical remarks, which are additionally valuable coming as they do from such a source. It is scarcely necessary for me to mention that, after such an ope- ration, the wound should in general be closed at once. In Tracheotomy for difficult breathing, the opening is made with the object of allowing the patient to breathe through it: here, however, it has been made only for the convenience of removing the cause of annoyance. Pharyngotomy and CEsophagotomy are operations which are very rarely required, and for which no exact rules can be given. It is cus- tomary to notice that the gullet lies a little to the left of the trachea, and in cutting into it on the dead subject this side is alway selected : the proceeding may be done in the dissecting-room as follows:—A portion of bone, bit of muscle, or other convenient substance, should be pushed into the lower part of the pharynx, until it is made to bulge in the neck, which it will probably do most conspicuously on the left side of the thyroid cartilage; then an incision through the skin, between two and three inches long, should be made over the swel- ling, when the platysma, cellular tissue, and gullet, should be divided