DISLOCATIONS. FRACTURES. 423 transverse or cruciform ligament, the odontoid process remaining erect; the medulla oblongata has been in a manner transfixed by it,—at all events the contusion has been such as to cause the sudden event. Sometimes chronic inflammation has been previously known to have been present in certain of these cases ; on other occasions, no suspicion of disease has been entertained, and there are good reasons for sup- posing that when the parts are perfectly healthy, a vast force is re- quired to cause such displacements. It is imagined by many that in persons who suffer the extreme penalty of the law by hanging, the cervical vertebrae are broken or dislocated ; but though this doubtless happens on some occasions, as is known from good authorities, Dr. Houston of Dublin has related several dissections of such individuals, where no perceptible injury had been inflicted either on the spine or its contents. It is well known, on the other hand, that a slow process of displacement and distortion may go on in this region, and yet the medulla oblongata and the spinal marrow below will retain all their functions: the changes go on so gradually that these parts become accustomed to their altered shapes, and the organs below remain in a vigorous condition. Similar facts are often observable in the inferior portion of the spine, and in a future page I shall return to this subject. Fractures are much more common in this region of the body : they probably happen as frequently as dislocations; but here, as with the latter injury, the effect on the bone is not of such consequence as that on the contents of the canal. Dislocation of the lower jaw occasionally happens, and in certain individuals the articulations seem so lax that the condyles are remark- ably prone to slip forwards, which is the only course they can take. One articulation or both may suffer at the same time, and in either case the effect is, that the patient cannot shut the mouth. It usually is the result of gaping very wide,—a yawn has been known to produce it; and if any force is applied against the chin when the mouth is even moderately open, an articular surface is very likely to start forward. The following drawing (fig. 199) shows the appearance of the features under such circumstances, and the head of the bone may be supposed resting in front of the articular surface. This condition may be easily remedied by passing the thumb into the mouth, and pressing the bone downwards and backwards by pushing against the molar teeth. One or both thumbs may be used as may be required, and it is recommended to cover each with a towel in case of injury from the sudden closure of the jaws. The lower jaw is frequently broken, and the injury may be pro- duced in various ways, though in all the violence must be very con- siderable. A fall on the part—a blow with a stick or with the fist— a kick from a horse, and such like violence, will produce it; and the accident may be accompanied with a wound in the cheek or not:—in any way it must in some respects be deemed a compound fracture; for as it is seldom that the fissure does not extend into the mouth, it may here be considered as being exposed to the air. The latter cir-