110 TUMOURS. blance either to it or to any other health}' texture, whilst in other instances there may be a degree of resemblance to some normal tissue, as in the medullary tumour, which, however, may be met with in muscle, hone, or any other texture. However laudable it may he to endeavour to give precision to the word tumour, I doubt if surgeons will ever give up the terms of tu- mour of hernia, tumour of hydrocele, tumour of hydrocephalus, tumour of abscess, and such like. Dr. Warren, one of the latest authorities on the subject, has been content to leave the term as he found it; and, indeed, except among excessive sticklers for remarkable preci- sion of language,—who are not on that account, however, to be con- sidered the most precise or intelligent practitioners,—I have never seen any difficulties as to what condition the name of tumour was or was not applicable. Tumours vary in size, shape, position, and organization, to an end- less extent. The size may be so small as to be scarcely appreciable, or so large as to equal the aggregate of one half of the body or more. The shape is exceedingly variable,—round, flat, oblong, pyri- form, and so forth ; they may occupy any part or texture, on the sur- face of the body, or deep-seated; and their organization and physical appearances are such, that even the most experienced pathologist frequently meets with examples which he may not have observed before. Sometimes tumours are of a solid fleshy character throughout, such as were described by Mr. Abernethy under the title sarcomatous ; at other times they consist of a bag or cyst, which contains fluid,—the encysted species of the same author: occasionally there is a sort of combination of the two, for there may be one cyst or more, in a tu- mour whose general character is sarcomatous, and in another case a cyst may ultimately assume the appearance of a more solid growth. Indeed, according to Dr. Baron, and also certain modem doctrines founded on microscopic researches, there are grounds for supposing, that even the most solid tumours are originally formed of cysts,— hydatids,—cytoblasts, as they have recently been named. For practical purposes, the arrangement of tumours into those which are malignant, and those which are not so—benign, as they are called —is perhaps the most useful. I here use the term malignant, as it is generally applied to such diseases as scirrhus, medullary sarcoma, and melanosis. These are maladies which, if not interfered with by the surgeon, are certain to get worse,—to contaminate the system, (if, indeed, they are not already local effects of constitutional disease,) .and to be the direct cause of death. The non-malignant, or benign tumour, is exemplified in what Abernethy called the simple sarcoma, or the adipose sarcoma, the cystic sarcoma, and the painful subcuta- neous tubercle, described lav Mr. William Wood: the different forms of encysted tumour also come under this title, whether the cyst con- tains a thin fluid like serum, or a thick curdy material, whether it be wen, ganglion, meliceris, atheroma, or steatoma. The opinion that such a disease as scirrhus is entirely of a local