250 THE INFERIOR EXTREMITY. parate from it, the tendo Achillis will again be noticed passing to the posterior and upper part of the os caleis. The further course and insertions of these tendons may be examined either at present, or after the ligaments of the ankle have been dis- sected. For the latter purpose they must all be turned aside. The internal lateral ligament (deltoid) will be found passing from the apex of the malleolus in a radiated manner downwards, to be attached to the astragalus, and partially to the os calcis; it will be observed to be of very considerable strength in its middle and back part, and ante- riorly it will be seen to extend some distance forwards on the astraga- lus. The three external lateral ligaments will be found attached sepa- rately to the extremity of the fibula, the anterior of the three being connected to the astragalus, the middle to the outer side of the os calcis, and the posterior spreading out to be attached in part to the tibia, astragalus, and os calcis, forming an irregular fibrous covering to a considerable portion of the back of the ankle-joint. A few additional fibres may be noticed on the posterior aspect of the joint, covering the loose synovial capsule, and a few may also be made out on this mem- brane on the fore part of the articulation. The different ligaments and synovial capsule should now be divided, when the manner in which the astragalus is locked into the space between the malleoli will be noticed. The foot being now separated from the bones of the leg, the at- tachments of these to each other should next be examined. The interosseal ligament, as the dissection has previously been conducted, will require little additional1 cleaning. The aperture in it, through which the anterior tibial artery passes, will now be more fully brought into view. A few fibres will be seen on the anterior and posterior aspects of the articulation of the head of the fibula to the tibia. The best method of examining the interior of this joint will be to cut the fibula across with the saw, and then carry the knife from below upwards between the bones; when the fibula is almost sepa- rated, the thin partition between the articulation and that of the knee will be remarked: the synovial membrane of the latter joint passes so far down on the outer side of the head of the tibia, and that of the joint now under examination is in such close contact with it, that the partition between the two is formed solely by the junction of these membranes. Occasionally a communication exists in this part between the two articulations. The lower extremity of the fibula is much more firmly connected with the tibia ; a strong broad band of fibres can be made out in front, and another of almost equal strength and dimensions behind, and, in addition, if the two bones be separated by cutting from above, they will be found firmly adherent, by means of numerous short and strong transverse fibres situated between them. The articulations in the foot may now be dissected. The various tendons, which were laid aside previously to the dissection of the liga- ments of the ankle-joint, should first be traced to their attachments (if this has not already been done), when the ligaments can next be