CHAPTER XIV. GRANULATION. CICATRIZATION. In certain instances of inflammation, as in wounds where union by the first intention does not occur, the term granulation is generally understood to denote that organized condition of the lymph, which is always effused in such cases, ere the open surface closes. When a wound heals by the second intention granulation must occur: it is the partial contraction and glazing over, as it were, of the granulations which constitutes cicatrization, or healing, and no union of an open sup- purating sore can occur until these are present, and are disposed to close over. Such sores are frequently the result of abscess. It will happen sometimes, that when an abscess has been opened and completely evacuated, its sides, falling together, coalesce by the first intention, but oftener a suppurating sore remains, on whose surface granulations form, and, as the sore heals, cicatrization occurs,—the two latter terms being in a manner synonymous. When granulations are healthy, they are disposed to heal sponta- neously, and indeed often do so In some cases the surgeon can scarcely flatter himself that he confers the least benefit, but in others he has it in his power to aid nature materially. The term “ healthy” is usually understood as denoting that condition of granulations in which there is an evident tendency to cicatrization : if, when they are in this condition, any different action occurs, the hedling process cannot go on at the time, nor until the healthy action is again present ; and here it is in the power of the surgeon, in many instances, so to caution his patient against irregularities, to dress the sore, to support the parts, and to give them a good position, that he may exhibit many of the best qualities of his profession. I need scarcely refer to what the irregularities may be, and will only remind the young surgeon, that the nearer he keeps his patient’s constitutional health to what may be deemed the natural standard, in each special case, the greater is the probability that the local affection will be cured. The dressings for such a sore need be few in number, and ought to be of the simplest kind. It is not easy to convince a non-professional party, that the usual applications in these cases have no remarkable specific effects on a sore : hence the popular credulity in nostrums, and the rich harvest for “ The poor man's friend.” 1 fear that professional men often take too much credit to themselves, or assume it for their applications, and overlook the remedial powers of nature in such cases, and hence, perhaps, the opposite opinions regard- ing the effects of certain agents, and the vast variety of remedies in use. It may be a question with the young practitioner, when granula-