553 INTRODUCTION OF THE CATHETER. In all instances of difficulty, from whatever cause it may arise, if it be in the perineal portion of the urethra, more especially about the membranous part, the forefinger of the left hand passed into the rec- tum will greatly facilitate the operation. In this way the point can usually be felt, and guided in the proper course, but there are other proceedings which may be followed in cases of this kind with great advantage. Thus in some examples the instrument seems to pass on more freely when the patient stands ; indeed, some surgeons on all occasions prefer this attitude to the recumbent. In cases of extreme difficult}', however, and supposing the patient to be suffering under the distress of long-continued retention, the erect posture cannot be easily maintained ; and there are many instances where it is not practicable. Clysters of warm water, the hip-batli, blood-letting by lancet, leeching, or cupping, opiates, and antispasmodics, may perhaps save the necessity for persevering with the catheter ; the bladder may be in part or entirely relieved ; even yet, however, it may be needful to go on, and possibly, if the patient is now placed in a warm bath, the efforts may succeed. If not, and the urgency is great, the bladder may then be entered in any of the ways already described. Unless, however, there is reason to suppose that the bladder or urethra behind the obstruction will burst ere long, the last resource of puncturing should not at once be adopted. Even in the worst cases of retention, when tile bladder arrives at a certain point of distention the urine begins to dribble away ; thus further accumulation is prevented, for at this time it often happens that the secretion of the fluid goes on less rapidly than before, and although this is a condition which cannot long continue, and should not long be permitted, some favourable change may yet take place, and the patient be thereby saved from the very equivocal advantages of the method by puncturing. I use and recommend the silver catheter, as preferable to all others, and cannot say that I have ever seen an instance where a flexible gum instrument could be introduced when the other had failed ; neverthe- less many excellent surgeons choose the gum catheters, which at the time of the operation can be made to alter in bend by means of the iron wire with which each is usually provided. When introduced and the wire is withdrawn, it certainly, by bending to the course of the urethra, must be less likely to cause irritation than the hard and inflexible metallic instrument; and therefore in cases where there is a necessity for keeping a catheter constantly in the bladder, it must be preferred. Some patients are in a condition to walk about, although from disease of the urethra, bladder, or elsewhere, it is necessary to retain a catheter, and here the advantage of a flexible material must be sufficiently obvious. Sometimes, in very corpulent individuals, it is most convenient to introduce the point of the catheter with the right hand nearly between the patient’s thighs and the convexity towards the abdomen ; it is then, after being pushed along as far as the triangular ligament, turned into the same position as when the other mode is pursued, and thus