566 THE CHEST, ABDOMEN, AND PELVIS. Fig. 236. stance, and much ingenuity and manipulative skill n may be necessary to expedite its passage. Various 111 11 instruments have been constructed to enable the sur- wwftJ geon t0 extract tliese objects. One of this figure (236) Wfl may sometimes answer: the two blades are intended yi/fiL to grasp the fragment, and the screw or file in the cen- Wjl tre is designed to fritter it down. In one instance a bent piece of wire will suit, in another the scoop end of a common director; and again, a long slender for- ceps, similar in construction to those used for extract- ing polypi from the nostrils, (p. 456,) will serve the object in view. But I need not dwell on such topics, nor after all that has been previously stated in this volume need I give special notice to such matters as the ordinary principles of practice should dictate,—as regards the necessity of using every instrument with the most gentle and delicate movements,—the value of fl opiates, especially when exhibited by the rectum,— the advantages of diluents, hip-baths, and, generally, all such means as shall allay pain, promote the passage of fragments, and avert or subdue inflammatory action. Although lithotrity may be performed on children, it may well be doubted if such a proceeding should ever be attempted upon them ; for it would be difficult to name any single operation of magnitude which has been more successful on young subjects than that of lithotomy. Out of one hundred and five cases operated on by the latter method in the Norwich Hospital—the patients being under ten years of age— only three died, thus giving an average of one in thirty-five; and al- though othertables do not show altogether such favourable results, there are good reasons for supposing, that the average deaths in young persons who are subjected to lithotomy is little more than one in twenty- eight or thirty. Until it can be shown, then, that lithotrity sur- passes this success, and is in almost every other respect to be pre- ferred, it is only a fair conclusion to draw at the present time, that lithotomy is decidedly preferable in such subjects; and when, more- over, the comparative frequency of the disease in children is taken into account, it will at once appear that a large proportion of all cases of stone must yet be set aside for the lithotomist. Above the age of puberty, however, the average alters very materially, and as already stated, the propriety of resorting to lithotrity ought to have due con- sideration. The circumstances which are unfavourable for lithotrity can be consi- dered as giving only a negative advantage to lithotomy: if the magni- tude of a stone precludes the selection of the former, it renders the latter a dangerous alternative ; but of two evils the surgeon’s judgment has to determine which can be deemed the least ; and it seems certain that the latter method must still, in many examples, be the only means of attempting a cure by operation.