342 CHAPTER VIII. AMPUTATIONS. Amputations on the lower extremity may now occupy attention,' and if the operations above referred to have already been performed, an untouched limb should be selected, although some of them may even yet be conveniently done on the mutilated member. The small toes occasionally require to be removed, in consequence of accident, disease, or distortion. If the surgeon can save a portion of one of these toes it may be well to do so; but, in general, the part is separated at its articulation with the metatarsal bone. For the removal of a phalanx, a proceeding similar to one or other of those described for the fingers (p. 213) will serve the purpose, and these directions need not here be repeated. For the removal of the whole toe a narrow bistoury should be passed up on one side of the proximal phalanx as high as the articu- lation ; it should then be carried across the joint and down the opposite side, so as to make a wound similar in size to the first, when the toe will be separated. The knife when entered should lie flat against the phalanx ; then, when it has been earned sufficiently deep, its edge should be directed against the lateral ligament, which should be put on the stretch by the surgeon judiciously twisting the toe whilst it is held in his left hand, and by the same means, too, he can make sufficient room to carry the knife across the joint without obstruction from points of bone : as soon as the latter object is effected the blade should again be laid flat against the phalanx, and held so until it is carried out of the fissure opposite to that into which it has been first inserted. In performing such an operation the surgeon’s hand may be held either above or below the foot, at his pleasure. Perhaps the point on which he is most likely to err is in not carrying the blade sufficiently deep ; for, as has been remarked in describing the mode of dissecting and examining these parts, the joint actually lies much deeper than a person not acquainted with anatomy might imagine. Should the metatarsal bone be also affected, it may be removed after the separation of the toe, by extending the incision on the upper part of the foot, isolating the bone, and detaching it at its articulation with the tarsus; or if its proximal end is sound the cutting forceps may be used as in the corresponding bones of the hand. I have strongly recommended the removal of a portion of a metacarpal bone when it is necessary to sacrifice a finger, and have, I trust, both said and shown enough to prove the advantage of such a proceeding; but, from all I have seen, I should be equally anxious to preserve the whole of a metatarsal bone, as the breadth of the foot should never, in my opinion, be diminished unless there is absolute necessity