OPERATIONS ON THE LIPS. 4G3 it could be said that an operation had been unnecessarily performed. In one person who had an open sore on his lower lip on a hard basis for about two years, the surface cicatrized under the use of nitrate of silver;—six months afterwards, and while the part still remained whole, I was asked to remove a tumour from below the angle of the jaw, which was found during the operation to be a cyst containing a serous fluid : the disease seemed completely removed, but in less than two months a scirrhous hardness formed around the cicatrix, and ere long the patient died with great swelling and cancerous ulceration, such as are but too frequently seen in those in whom the verge of the lip has been removed after a too literal application of “ the last resource.” Such conditions as those alluded to are usually found on the lower lip—the upper is rarely thus affected—and they may be near the corner of the mouth or towards the centre, sometimes so small that they might be covered with the tip of the finger; at others involving nearly the whole of the free margin. Incisions of this shape will generally permit the removal of the whole disease, which will be comprised within the two lines: the surfaces can afterwards be brought accurately into apposition, and retained by one or two twisted sutures. Here I also prefer the bistoury, and generally transfix the lip below, although I am not so particular as with the hare-lip, for the fin- gers suffice to keep the parts steady. The labial artery should be secured by the uppermost needle in the manner recommended in the operation last referred to. When, however, nearly the whole lip is affected, as is here exhibited (fig. 212), if such incisions are made as those just alluded to there will be difficulty in bringing the edges suffi- ciently close, and although it is won- derful how much the soft parts will stretch on these occasions, it often answers well to cut the diseased sur face away by means of an inci- sion parallel with the margin of the lip. The part should be seized be- tween the forefinger and thumb of the left hand, when the bistoury should be entered at one side and carried along between the sound and diseased textures until the separation is effected. Perhaps the labial artery at each end of the wound will require a ligature, or proba- bly torsion may bo serviceable here : in general, however, the stitches will suppress all bleeding. These should now be introduced by passing a fine needle (p. 29) from the margin of the skin to that in the mucous Fig. 212.