415 DISSECTIONS OF HEAD, FACE, AND THROAT. terior and superior muscles of the ear may also be dissected, although none of these parts (excepting, perhaps, the aponeurosis,) present any remarkable features of interest to the surgeon. The body should next be turned on its back, and a block being placed under the occiput to keep the vertex of the head upwards, the incision in the mesial line should then be extended down the forehead to the root of the nose, from which point the knife should be carried in a semicircular course outwards, above the eyebrow, to the upper margin of the malar bone, when by dissecting off the scalp to the side, the whole of the epicranial aponeurosis may be displayed, as also the anterior muscle of the ear, with the whole of the frontal. Considerable care is required in raising the scalp to preserve the aponeurosis be- neath ; for as these are more intimately attached to each other than the latter is to the periosteum (pericranium), they are liable to be elevated at the same time. If the skin on the other side of the cranium be now removed, some idea may be had of the extent of the aponeurosis (occipito-frontalis tendon, as it is often called); and it may also be perceived that when matter collects under this texture, it may possibly burrow extensively, ere an opening forms for its escape. By making an incision in the scalp, a little above and in front of the ear, and also one about midway between the latter part and the occipital protuberance, the trunk or a branch of the temporal and oc- cipital arteries may be discovered, and their ramifications may be traced as far as the dissector thinks fit. The size and position of the occipital should not be overlooked, but most attention may be paid to the temporal, which will usually divide into two branches, the one passing forwards being that usually selected for Arteriotomy. The incisions for exposing these vessels, when the scalp has been removed in the manner above directed, may be made either on the inside or outside ; the occipital, owing to the density of the hairy scalp, wall probably be most conveniently got at on the inner side, and the tem- poral by cutting through the skin. The aponeurosis and the muscles attached to it may next be re- moved, and it may now be observed that the periosteum is thinner in this situation than on many other large bones. It will be a good lesson to trace the course of the sutures now exposed, with the eye and the point of the finger, as such a proceeding may enable the surgeon afterwards to detect the difference between them and fractures. The coronal, sagittal, and lambdoidal may be examined in the present stage of the dissection, but most of the squamous will still be covered by the temporal muscle. The face may now attract attention. The block should be taken from under the occiput: the cheeks should be stuffed and expanded with horsehair, and the lips attached by a few sutures, or by that kind known among dissectors as the “glover’s stitch,” and then an incision through the skin should be carried around the mouth about half an inch from the margin of the lips: from the angle of the mouth,