THE CHEST, ABDOMEN, AND PELVIS. 490 spinal column is in a manner cleared, the ridge formed by the spinous processes from the seventh cervical vertebra (v. prominens) should be carefully traced with the eye and finger, and it may be well, also, to remove the whole of the muscles to ascertain how the spinal marrow is protected behind. It may then be perceived that in the dorsal region the laminae, and oblique position of each spinous process, com- pletely close in the canal in this situation, but that it is more or less open in the spaces between the laminae elsewhere. The subject being now laid on its back, the cartilages of the six su- perior ribs, with the exception of that of the first, should be divided close to the ends of the bones, and the sternum along with them should be raised from below upwards; to effect which, the cartilage of the seventh rib should be cut in an oblique direction towards the mesial line : the upper ends of the recti muscles must also be cut across at the same time, when the ensiform cartilage, sternum and sterno-costal cartilages, should be raised at the same time, partly by tearing the loose cellular texture in the anterior mediastinum, and also by dividing the pleura on each side where it lines the interior of the latter-named cartilages. In ef- fecting the latter object, the extent of the pleura forwards, and con- sequently that of the cavity of the chest, may be appreciated. The sternum may either be broken across at the junction between the body and upper end, and turned upwards, or else dissected from between the first ribs, and entirely removed. In either way the dissector may perceive the position of the internal mammary artery immediately within the cartilages, where they are about to join the sternum, and also the extent of the pleura upwards, as well as downwards. But,to trace the latter membrane more completely, the ribs should be divided in a line between the anterior end of the first to the middle of the eighth or ninth, .and their anterior extremities removed. The divi- sion may be effected with the saw or cutting pliers. Now the hand should be passed into the back part of the serous cavity, and the extent of the pleura downwards and upwards may be more fully as- certained. Below it will be found to line the inner surface of the twelfth rib, and above it will now be perceived to project somewhat higher than the level of the first, — a feature of some surgical interest with reference to the neck, which has already been alluded to in the preceding section of the volume. The position of the heart and the large blood-vessels immediately con- nected with it must of course attract notice, but as it is presumed that the dissector is already acquainted with the elementary anatomy here, it is not proposed to refer particularly to them on this occasion. The most casual observer cannot but be struck with the limited extent ot the chest, as it is now exhibited: its comparative want of capacity above, and the manner in which it is filled by the vault ot the abdo- men below, (the diaphragm,) cannot escape notice, and the extreme narrowness of the space between the diaphragm and the three or four inferior ribs should not be overlooked. It the scalpel or bistoury be thrust between any of these ribs, it will at once be perceived if it