THE INFERIOR EXTREMITY. 33G probe a portion of carious bone was detected, and I recommended that he should allow me to make the necessary incisions for its removal. Accordingly, being provided with the requisite instru- ments, a crucial incision was made in the skin, and the surface of the tibia was laid bare over the affected part; here a small orifice was found not larger than the point of a probe, which led down to bare bone. I enlarged the orifice with the gouge and forceps and discovered a portion of the cancellated structure as large as a walnut, dead, emitting a most offensive odour, and loose- ly enveloped in a membrane similar to that which lines the inte- rior of an abscess in the soft parts. By an additional enlargement of the outer shell of the bone (which was accomplished with some trou- ble, owing to its thickened and hardened condition, resulting from new ossific deposit)*! was enabled to extract the dead bone. The large gap gradually filled and the surrounding swelling at the same time diminished: the surface cicatrized, and some time afterwards I saw this patient with the limb as sound as the other, and only a small dimple remained to point out where the disease had been. I could mention similar instances that have occurred in my own experience in patients at different periods of life ; but this one may suffice as an example of a practice which, in my opinion, will be of much service in averting more serious consequences and abbreviating the tedious character of such diseases. Very large portions of the tibia may be removed by means similar to those above recommended, whether the disease be caries or necrosis; but in either case, if the shaft of the bone is extensively sacrificed, it may be a question whether, under the circumstances, there is much utility in saving the remaining portion. I have seen one instance in a patient under puberty, where the anterior half of nearly the whole length of the tibia separated by necrosis, without any previous repro- duction of bone ; the large openings in the skin cicatrized, but as the person began to move about, and lean some weight on the member, the limb became gradually bent, and was at last so unseemly, and, moreover, so cumbersome and of so little use, as to induce her to submit to amputation. Portions of the fibula may occasionally be removed with advantage, but cases where practice similar to that above recommended can be put into execution, are of rare occurrence in diseases of this bone. How- ever, a good anatomist, with a correct knowledge of surgical pathology, may sometimes obviate the necessity of sacrificing the limb by ampu- tation, by resorting to some such measures as those referred to, al- though here it is scarcely possible to state how or under what circum- stances these operations should be performed. Excision of the knee, notwithstanding the frequency of disease in this articulation, and also the great success of the operation as first done by Mr. Park, is rarely practised in the present day. I have my- self seen only one instance where the operation was performed, but the condition of the limb, several years after, was very different from that