116 ANEURISM BY ANASTOMOSIS. principal objection to this plan is the size of the wound, and conse- quent scar ; and, moreover, there are few instances in which it is ad- missible. To avoid the danger of bleeding, it has often been the custom to encircle these tumours with a stout thread, which is drawn sufficiently tight to cause strangulation and sloughing. The usual practice has been to push a needle through the centre of the disease, and thus convey a double ligature across, one being tied around the root of one half of the tumour, the other round the opposite half, both including skin as well as disease. This mode is very efficient, but painful, and liable to objection from the size of the scar, which must be the result; besides, if the base of the tumour is broad, complete strangulation may not be effected at once, and new threads must be introduced. A method by incision of the skin and the ligature has been most successfully resorted to by Mr. Liston. By convenient incisions the skin has been elevated from the circumference of the tumour ; needles and threads have then been introduced, and the diseased mass has been treated in the manner above described. This plan has the advantage of preserving a larger portion of skin, and also of allow- ing the noose to be drawn more closely in contact with the dis- ease, which is thus effectually compressed at once. The surgeon’s judgment must indicate the proper incisions and flaps to be made on such occasions. If the tumour is prominent, and the disease involves part of the skin, the knife should be so carried as not to interfere with it; but generally towards the circumference of such growths it is perfectly healthy, and can be raised without much danger of cutting into the mass. The noodles used in such operations may be similar to those represented at p. 29, or to that seen at p. 30, which, being set in a handle, enables the surgeon to use it with greater force and precision. Common ligature thread is not strong enough to permit a sufficiently firm noose being drawn, and small whip-cord will be found more advantageous. Instead of one needle only being used to carry across a double ligature, another, armed in a similar manner, may be run at right angles with the first; and thus, by four threads being present, more complete strangulation may be effected. Such a method I have often resorted to in removing hemorrhoidal tumours with liga- tures. Of all these different methods I give the preference to the latter wherever it is practicable, and when it is desirable to get rid of the tumour at once. Instances occasionally occur, however, where even this method cannot be resorted to with propriety. Some years ago 1 treated a case of this disease in a lad about the age of puberty. The tumour was situated on the outside of the thigh, midway between the trochanter and the external condyle ; it was but slightly prominent; and although its diameter in all directions seemed three or four inches at least, its exact limits could not' be made out. On all sides large pulsating vessels could be. felt‘passing into it, and there was every