DISSECTIONS OF HEAD, FACE, AND THROAT. 417 orbital ridges. The instrument should not pass so deep as to injure the dura mater, and a chisel and hammer may be applied advan- tageously to break any portion of bone which cannot be reached with the saw without necessitating a division of the membrane within. The sharp claws of a hammer may be used for the above purpose, so as to obviate the necessity for a sawwith a good eye and a dexterous hand, a succession of blows may be applied, which will cause a fissure all round scarcely larger than that formed by the saw, and if the points are hooked into it in the forehead, the skull-cap may be elevated by pulling it upwards and backwards, and the whole process will occu- py less time than that required with the ordinary means. The dura mater will not be torn, nor will the brain be at all injured. In pri- vate post mortem examinations, I should give a preference to the saw and chisel, more especially if any relations were present, as the mode with the hammer has an appearance of coarseness with it, which it would be desirable to avoid on such occasions. The whole process appears sufficiently rude to such a looker-on, in whatever way it may be done. The branches of the middle meningeal artery will now be perceived, and the greater part of the course of the superior longitudinal sinus may be traced: it should be laid open with the scissors. With the latter instrument the dura mater should be cut from before backwards, a little outside of this sinus, when by dividing it and the falx cerebri the membrane may be so elevated and turned aside, as to expose the whole upper surface of the hemispheres of the brain. In raising the falx, the passage of the superficial veins of the latter organ may be observed passing obliquely from behind forwards into the superior longitudinal sinus. The brain may now be examined in any way that may be thought proper; but as it is not my intention to describe any mode of investi- gating the anatomy of this organ, I shall here only recommend that it should be removed by elevating the anterior lobes, then dividing the optic nerves, the internal carotid arteries, and each nerve in succes- sion, so as to allow the middle lobes also to be raised, When by cutting the tentorium on each side from before backwards, and carrying the knife across the medulla oblongata, or upper part of the spinal marrow, the separation of the whole organ (cerebrum and cerebellum) will be effected; and now, by continuing the incision already made in the su- perior longitudinal sinus, the transverse sinuses may be traced in the same manner : it will be better, however, to leave them in their natural grooves, and to cut into them from the inner side of the dura mater. After these have been traced as far as the jugular foramina, the torcular Herophili may next attract attention, and also the sinuses of a minor size, which, however, as they do not lie near the surface of the cranium, and present few features of interest to the practical surgeon, need not here be particularly noticed. Neither is it of great consequence in the present investigation to occupy much time in examining the passage of the nerves through the base of the cranium, for although each may 2 E