THE INFERIOR EXTREMITY. 31f} Fig. 171. side of the leg or the left, at the will of the surgeon, or as seems best fitted to the circumstances. In old callous ulcers it may be deemed necessary to give further support to the parts, to approximate their edges, and also to apply a certain amount of stimulus, by means of straps of adhesive plaster, from an inch and a half to two inches broad, and of such a length as to encircle the limb. The middle of each strap should be placed on the side opposite to the sore, and then each end should be brought forward and crossed in a sloping direction over it. A sufficient number of straps are to be applied to cover the limb an inch or more above and below the ulcer, and over all a calico roller may be placed as above-described. The method, by means of the roller (made of flannel, however) com- bined with the calamine cerate and compresses, constitutes that which was so highly extolled by Mr. Whateley, and that, with straps and the calico bandage, forms the chief feature of Mr. ISaynton’s practice. In modern times, cloth prepared with caoutchouc has been recommended as a good substitute for the flannel or calico bandage in such cases, and the latest fashion is cotton-thread bandage worked in a manner similar to a stocking. The latter seems an advantageous improve- ment, possessing greater elasticity and more durable powers than the common calico; but the former, in so far as I can perceive, has not maintained the pretensions with which it was brought forward. The treatment of varicose veins in the lower extremity, constitutes, in the present day, more of the surgeon’s duty than was formerly the case; for although at all periods of the history of the art it would appear that various operations were performed on the veins, differing in kind and in severity, from the actual cautery to the simple puncture with a lancet, little active surgical interference was resorted to in the present century, until within the last ten years, when an important change in practice, with reference to varicose veins, has been most ex- tensively pursued. From the fatal results which occasionally followed the application of a ligature to the saphena vein, on the inner side of the knee, as practised by Sir Everard Home and others, surgeons seemed suddenly to have concluded that all interference with this vessel or its