OPERATIONS FOR CLUB-FOOT. 325 of from half an inch to an inch may be left between them: per- haps a few fibres may remain undivided, and much on the stretch; these should also be cut across by holding the edge of the knife against them ; or, if it has already been withdrawn, by inserting it again through the little orifice in the skin. Dr. Little and others have recommended that the tendon should be cut from within out- wards ; i. e. by passing the knife in front of it, and then cutting to- wards the surface ; but such a proceeding, as well as whether the blade should be thrust in on the inner or outer margin of the tendon, are matters of no great moment, in my opinion, and may, therefore, be left to the convenience or taste of the operator. Neither do I think the shape and size of the knife of such importance as some seem to imagine, provided always that care be taken to make the external puncture very small. I have performed the operation frequently with a common narrow-bladed bistoury, and also with a small scalpel. It will be remarked, however, that in using the edge of these knives a larger wound will be made in the skin than may be wanted, and I have latterly used such a blade as that above represented, which only cuts for about five eighths of an inch from the point; and the remainder being blunt, and rounded on each side, admits of its being turned in any direction as often as may be required, without further injury to the surface. In the talipes equinus this proceeding will be all that is necessary with the knife; but in the other forms of club-foot, the tendons of the tibiales muscles, the flexor and extensor pollicis, sometimes even the common flexors and extensors, and also those of the peronei, may require division: in addition, it is often of much consequence to divide a portion of the plantar aponeurosis by a subcutaneous incision, and occasionally also to divide the short muscles in the sole of the foot, more particularly the flexor brevis: indeed, in some instances, when the foot has been very short, and much arched, but when the heel has not been raised from the ground, and the deformity has scarcely amounted to what might be called club-foot, I have seen much benefit result from division of the plantar apeneurosis, and a partial incision of the flexor brevis muscle. There need be no set rules for such ope- rations, nor much hesitation in dividing every texture which seems to offer resistance to the removal of the deformity: in the young subject the tendons and vessels are all so near to each other, that either of the tibial arteries may occasionally be wounded: I cannot speak positively on this subject; but my impression is, that the}’ are fre- quently cut across in young children : in my own practice the point of the knife has often been carried so near to one or other of these vessels, that I have felt convinced that one of them must have been divided, in consequence of the flow of blood following the withdrawal of the blade; but I have always found that a little pressure with a pad and bandage has effectually restrained the hemorrhage. In the sole of the foot, too, copious bleeding has been noticed until pressure was applied. Especial care, however, should be taken in operating on the adult, as