DISLOCATIONS. FRACTURES. 491 penetrates deep in a horizontal direction, that it not only enters the chest, but actually perforates the diaphragm, and appears in the abdomen. Such examinations may be made of the anterior mediastinum, heart, and large blood-vessels, lower part of the trachea, bronchi, and of the posterior mediastinum and its contents, as may be thought proper; and then these being removed or held aside, one or more of the intercostal arteries should be traced,—perhaps that between the seventh and eighth rib may be chosen : its course from the side of the spine, under the pleura, and along the lower margin of the rib above should be dis- played, and when it passes between the intercostal muscles, the inner- most of these should be removed along with the pleura costalis, so as to permit a view of the vessel as far forward as any branches of mag- nitude can be traced. About the middle of its course it begins to leave the groove on the lower margin of the rib, and soon divides into branches until it is no longer of a size to attract special attention from the surgeon. A portion of the spine with two or more of the ribs should next be cut out with the saw, when the inter-vertebral substance and articular surfaces on the vertebrae can be examined, as also the attachments of the head and tubercle of one of the ribs to the side of the column and the anterior part of the point of a transverse process. Dislocations (in the ordinary acceptation of the term) are rarely met with in the chest. Occasionally the cartilage of one or more of the ribs may be driven inwards by great violence, and detached from the sternum, or there may be separation between the rib and carti- lage. Sometimes these injuries are unaccompanied with others; but most frequently they only form part of a severe bruise of the chest, and in conjunction, perhaps, with broken ribs, wounded lung, and in- jured spine. Sometknes the posterior end of a rib is detached from the spine, but this is even more rare than the last, as the shaft is so much more likely to give way. It is scarcely possible to imagine a dislocation between the vertebrae on the dorsal region : they are certainly separated in some severe inju- ries ; but here the principal feature will be with reference to the spinal marrow and the violence otherwise done to the spine and neighbouring parts. Fractures of one or other of the bones of the chest are of much more frequent occurrence: indeed, the ribs, perhaps, suffer more fre- quently than any other bones. There is seldom much difficulty in detecting such an injury; the fall or blow which has occasioned it, and the subsequent pain, will excite suspicion ; possibly the patient may feel the surfaces grating as he breathes; but, at all events, the application of the fingers will put the circumstance beyond doubt. Sometimes, however, the examination gives so much pain that the surgeon may not deem it necessary to be very minute, nor is there an absolute necessity for being so, for whether there is fracture or only contusion, the treatment should be nearly the same. When the sternum is broken there will seldom be difficulty in per-