ULCERATION. I who has a sore on the leg. These rules of practice will be more fully illustrated in describing the treatment of injuries and idcers of the lower extremities, as well as of other parts of the body. I may state, however, that there is a combination of benefit in rest, position, or attitude, and support by straps, rollers, or other con- venient apparatus, which is not always taken into due account. For instance, if a person with a healthy sore on the leg,' who has been kept to his bed, is allowed to get up and walk about, the sore is almost certain to retrograde, unless some support be given to the tender vessels'in the equally tender granulations: they will burst and bleed on the surface, or cause infiltration in the organized lymph, and days or weeks may elapse ere the part resumes its first condition. CHAPTER XV. ULCERATION. The process of ulceration, which is usually deemed a product or consequence of inflammation, is always a source of much vexation to the surgeon, often of great annoyance to the patient, and not unfrcquently of the utmost danger. It is one over which the prac- titioner has but little control; it usually causes much pain and alarm, and occasionally opens important organs, as the stomach, intestines, or large bloodvessels, so as to cause speedy death. The terms ulcer and ulceration seem too often to be confounded with each other, although in the proper application and acceptation of these words, there is really a great difference. Ulcer is a generic term applied in all sorts of sores, more particularly those which are on surfaces, but in many such, ulceration has never at any time been present. A person who has sores on his legs within a few days of healing over, is said to have ulcers, and the term is per- fectly understood in some respects, although the difference between these conditions at their commencement, and towards their end, is not always sufficiently appreciated. In their early stages nature seems determined to increase their size, whatever opposition man may offer; parts visible to the eye at first, in a few days disappear by that process termed by Hunter ulcerative absorption : the sores go on increasing in size so long as this process continues, but to- wards their latter stages nature seems just as determined to heal them up again. At first, ulceration is present; latterly, the process of healthy granulation : there is a sore, or ulcer, it will be observed, but instead of any excavation, such as is seen in ulceration, there is actually an effusion of lymph on the surface,—a kind of addition caused by nature, instead of a loss.