Fig. 6. 7 AND OPERATIONS. In all instances where the thumb and fore- appeared that this may not have been the meaning of that distin- guished authority, nor do I think it at all requisite on the part of the surgeon, that he should use the knife as dexterously with the left hand as with the right. It will be of advantage to dissect occa^ sionally with the left hand; but there are few who will attain the same command over it as over the opposite one. From infancy we apply each hand to special purposes; the left hand has its peculiar duties to perform whilst the other is engaged,—it may be said to be the servant of the right; and on the part of the surgeon this seems to me all that is necessary ; for it appears as absurd to expect ambi- dexterity with him, as it would be to expect, or recommend it, with the painter, sculptor, or common mechanic. I have never yet seen a surgeon who possessed equal power and grace in either hand, nor do I consider that the efficient practice of his art requires that kind of dexterity possessed by the juggler, who tosses his daggers, and catches them again as they twirl through the air, as freely with the one hand as with the other, and with whom the movements of each hand are, on such occasions, of necessity, nearly alike. finger of the left hand can be used to put the parts, about to be divided, on the stretch, they should be preferred to the forceps. In minute dissections the latter instrument is in general use, although, with a little practice, great nicety and firmness may be acquired with the thumb and finger used as a forceps. For or- dinary purposes, forceps similar to those re- presented in this sketch (fig. 6), will be found generally useful ; they should be be- tween four and five inches in length, and where the free ends of the blades meet, the surfaces should be grooved obliquely, so as to fit accurately into each other. The points should be rounded, and of considerable breadth ; and whilst capable, from being thus shaped and nicely fitted, of seizing the most minute objects, they may, when required, grasp others of greater size, and secure them firmly. This construction of point is, in my opinion, greatly to be preferred to the slender and dangerously shaip extremity, which I see in many of the instruments which come under my frequent notice. The spring in the blades should not be very strong, as the hand would speedily get fa- tigued. In dissection this instrument is usually held between the thumb and fore and middle finger of the left hand ; but it is often used in