563 L1TH0TRITY. Fi,j. 231. can, by a sliding motion, be so opened at the extremity within the blad- der as to leave a space of sufficient size to enclose the stone, when they can again be closed, and with such a force, as to divide the object into two or more fragments, which can then be treated in a mode similar to that by which the original stone has been broken down. This force was, as Mr. Weiss originally proposed it should be, applied by means of a screw: Heurteloup, however, who first used the instru- ment, preferred a hammer wherewith to close the blades; but the screw has been again adopted, and it is scarcely possible to refer to any useful piece of mechanism for surgical purposes more perfect than the instruments now constructed by Mr. Weiss. In 1834 I described, in The Lancet and in The Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, a modification by means of a rack and pinion, which I was induced to prefer after having witnessed some operations with the apparatus of Heurteloup. The necessity for a vice in which to fix the instrument, as used by this gentleman—the complicated, though ingenious table, and the various processes of fixing and unfix- ing the different screws and pins, all seemed to me to be unnecessary complications. The vice, capable of being fixed at any proper height on the margin of the table, was at first deemed a most valuable means of preventing the percussion from acting injuriously upon the urethra or bladder—it certainly was admirably adapted for that purpose ; but it was entirely overlooked that, while the lithotrite was in the viscus and thus fixed, there was nothing which could prevent the patient so moving and writhing his body as to bring the bladder against the in- strument, and thus unconsciously inflict greater injury than might have been occasioned without the vice. I have nowhere seen this circumstance so clearly pointed out as in Mr. Lee’s Essay, already referred to. A hand-vice has been substituted by some; but it may well be doubted if there be further use for the hammer, as the screw above referred to affords as much destructive force as the limited size of the instrument will bear. Of late years I have in some respects simplified my own instru- ment, and generally give it the preference to the screw force. It is such as may be understood by the drawing below (fig. 231), and may be used in the following manner:—The patient being laid on the mar- gin of a bed, or a couch, with the shoulders and knees slightly raised, the surgeon, standing between the latter, should introduce the instru- ment with the blades closed, and smeared with oil or lard, in a slow, steady, and cautious manner, so as to cause the smallest possible ex-