115 ANEURISM BY ANASTOMOSIS. A seton, carried through the centre of such diseases, has been known to excite high inflammation and obliteration. A needle should be used for the purpose, and the thread should be sufficiently large to fill up the track of the wound, otherwise troublesome hemorrhage might be the result. In some instances, when I have tried this plan, I have subsequently, in the same tumour, observed that two or three single threads, passed through different parts of the disease, by means of a common sewing needle, have had a more decided influence than the large single cord composing the seton. Two or three subcutaneous incisions will have the double effect of destroying some of the enlarged vessels, and exciting inflammation afterwards. The blood which escapes in these instances will press upon the vessels forming the tumour, and being in a manner infiltrated amongst them, may cause more extensive inflammation. It has been recommended to push the nozzle of a small syringe into the mass, and thus introduce a quantity of irritating fluid, such as tincture of iodine, so as to excite the desired amount of inflammation : —but there is scarcely an end to the various methods by which this process may be excited. Of all these plans, after having repeatedly tried most of them, I am inclined to give the preference to the needle and twisted thread. If the tumour is small, one will suffice, but more may be used. In the event of not succeeding, or possibly, even at first, I should resort to the use of two or more single threads. By either of these methods there is every probability of success, and there is less pain and trouble than with some of the others. Moreover, the scars on the surface will be less observable than when other measures, such as the caustic or cautery, have been used. The fearful account which John Bell gave of certain attempts to remove these tumours by the knife, had, probably, a strong effect in preventing any interference with them in this way ; and, indeed, unless the surgeon can make sure of the limits of the disease, he will seldom be justified in adopting such a course ; for although an ener- getic practitioner may arrest the bleeding, which is the immediate and certain result of cutting into such tumours, and dividing so many en- larged vessels at the same time, there may be a greater quantity of blood lost than prudence would deem right. I have seen a free in- cision made into a large tumour of this kind on the forehead ; and although the bleeding was copious for an instant, the surgeon was so well prepared with proper pads and bandages, that comparatively little blood was lost. Here the operator had previously assured himself that the bone was sound behind; and as the head was fully developed and the patient far beyond infant years, there was no difficulty in keeping up efficient pressure. If the limits of the disease are well defined, there need be little dread of bleeding, for incisions in the healthy parts around will not give rise to greater trouble than under other circumstances. The