FOR SUPPRESSING HEMORRHAGE. 25 perly padded and covered with leather, can be opened and shut at will. I have made some trials of this machine, but see no reason to alter the opinion above given, regarding the tourniquet. The fingers, or tourniquet, only afford temporary means of arresting hemorrhage; the open ends of the divided vessels must be secured with ligatures, which are to be applied in the following manner: Each artery which is not likely to cease bleeding without the ligature, is to be taken hold of with the common dissecting forceps, held in the right or left hand of the surgeon, drawn slightly out of its sheath, and separated from the vein or veins in contact with it, when a thread is to be tied round it by an assistant, a little beyond the point of the instrument, with a degree of tightness that will prevent the noose from slipping; and thus each vessel may be closed until nature effects its permanent obliteration. The thread for a ligature should be a small round cord of hemp or silk, about twelve inches long, possessed of sufficient strength to allow of some force being used in forming the knot ; which should be tied in such a way that it will not loosen. The surgeon’s knot (fig. 26), as it is called, which is made by pass- Fi,j. 26. ing one end of the thread twice over the other, before turning each end back again to form the second noose, may be applied, but it seems little used by surgeons of the present day, perhaps in consequence of what was stated by Boyer, that Chopart, in the presence of some of the most distinguished professors in Paris, in operating for popliteal aneurism, could not completely restrain the flow of blood by tying the surgeon’s knot; a second ligature was applied, and then a third, without success ; when, after some deliberation, it was thought advisable to amputate, as it was supposed that the artery was so ossified, that it would not close with a ligature. On examination of the vessel after the opera- tion, it was found in a natural state, and that the knots had not completely closed the canal. The sailor’s or reef-knot, as exhibited in figure 27, when the noose and loops, of course, are drawn tight, will make all secure ; but there can be no harm in casting a third turn of the ends, when there is the slightest apprehension of its slipping. One end of the thread should then be cut off, and the other left hanging out of the wound. In all