1.56 THE SUPERIOR EXTREMITY. stance (the patient was a boy about ten years old, under the care of Mr. Lizars) little force was needed; and in all similar examples vio- lent force or twisting is to be deprecated, for fear of exciting disease in the carpus. In adjusting these luxations, an assistant should steady the fore- arm, whilst the surgeon applies the extending force either by grasping the patient’s hand in his, or by means of a handkerchief twisted round the hand above the thumb. A slight degree of flexion or ex- tension cautiously applied will facilitate the object in view. The radius and ulna are sometimes separated at their lower ex- tremities. The ulna appears to be detached from the radius in such cases, and the prominence caused by its extremity leaves no doubt regarding its nature. A little pressure suffices for replacement, but it will not remain unless retained by a bandage, and even then there will, perhaps, be a projection, which fortunately, however, is productive of little or no after inconvenience ; indeed, in many persons advanced in years, a kind of slow spontaneous displacement of the lower ex- tremity of the ulna occurs naturally, which causes no annoyance whatever. One or both bones of the forearm may be displaced from the hu- merus. The head of the radius may pass in front of the external condyle, or it may be behind it. In the former case, which seems to be the more common of the two, the bone is in the position repre- sented in the drawing (fig. 64). I have only seen one well-marked instance of the latter, and it was on a subject in the dissecting-rooms. Figure 65 exhibits it: the head of the bone could be felt imme- diately under the skin, yet the displacement seemed to have pro- duced very little inconvenience, for the distortion was only apparent on a close examination (as may be seen from a cast in the collection at King’s College), and the motions of flexion and extension were tolerably complete, as were also those of supination and pronation. In either instance the injury is most likely to be occasioned by the patient falling, and attempting to save himself by throwing out his