179 FRACTURES OF THE FORE-ARM. Fig. 86. compound) as those under consideration, and the sketch (fig. 85), taken from a preparation in King’s College, gives a good example of the kind after a double fracture, in which the fragments of the radius are united, and those of the ulna, opposed to each other by smooth, callous looking surfaces, surrounded by slight exudation of new bone. Such a condition may or may not be accompanied by great incon- venience and if it is thought proper to interfere, the seton, as recom- mended in the chapter on false joints, will probably afford the best chance of success ; but more will be found on this subject in the chap- ter on Incisions in the upper extremity. Occasionally in young subjects (before puberty) one or both of these bones will bend before breaking. Perhaps all bones do so, more or less, before fissure occurs ; but that to which I allude is sometimes remarkably conspicuous. This sketch (fig. 86) of a young radius (as may be seen by the epiphysis having se- parated) gives a good illustration of the probable condition of the bone in such cases: at first there may only be a bend ; but as the force is continued, the convex part gives way, and at last, according to the friability, the whole thickness will suf- fer. The figure represents, at one part, bending and fracture combined, and to- wards the lower extremity a slight in- dentation and curve may be observed. It may not be deemed a scientific analogy to compare this radius with a walking- stick in a similar condition, yet there is, in many respects, great resemblance; and any one who has examined such acci- dents on the living body will agree with me in thinking so. In several instances which I have met with in practice, the distortion has been well marked, but cre- pitus has not been by any means distinct; considerable force has been required to straighten the fore-arm, and then a splint has appeared less necessary than in ordi- nary fracture, although I have always thought it best to apply one. The setting of the fragments has forcibly reminded me of earlier days, when, by an unlucky “ cast,” my fishing- rod had suffered in a somewhat similar manner. In all severe fractures of the hand and fore-arm it will be best, if not absolutely necessary, to confine the patient to bed at first, where the part can be conveniently placed on a pillow, with the hand on a level with the elbow, or even a little higher ; and when he sits up or moves about, the extremity should be bent at the elbow and kept in a sling, until the patient feels that he can dispense with such an