THE INFERIOR EXTREMITY. •254 most instances the cause is overlooked, and continued until its avoid- ance will not be of much benefit. One of the most troublesome dis- placements caused in this way is that when the toe next the great one forms a sharp angle upwards, and the skin over it becomes affected with a corn, which is even more troublesome in this situation than on other parts. The projection is usually seen at the junction between the two proximal phalanges ; it seems to occur most frequently in the originally well-formed foot, in which this toe is a little longer than the others ; and though I believe that a short shoe is generally the cause of the displacement, I imagine that there is a natural ten- dency to it, from the slender shape of the part and the influence of the flexor and extensor muscles. The latter seem to draw the distal extremity of the first phalanx upwards and backwards, whilst the former apparently have most effect on the furthest end of the toe, and, by drawing it downwards, increase the displacement. It is seldom that the surgeon is consulted in cases of this kind ; the operation of dividing the flexor tendons immediately under, has been proposed, and I believe the anticipated results might be greatly fa- cilitated were the extensors also cut across above the root of the toe. By using a small knife, such as that afterwards depicted, and taking care to avoid the joints, no danger can result from such opera- tions.. . Two months ago I was consulted in a case of this kind, which the' patient himself (a legal gentleman) considered congenital, his father’s foot being affected in a similar manner. I divided the flexor . tendons, with the knife referred to, immediately under the proximal ' phalanx, put a small piece of wood below the toe, and with some turns pf a narrow slip of adhesive plaster kept the two united, when, in a few days, the part was as straight as that on the other foot, and the cure was complete. Sir Astley Cooper refers to a case of a similar kind. The greatest trouble with the toe in this condition is commonly from the pressure of the upper leather of the shoe ; but I have seen the part so much bent under the foot, that the patient requested am- putation of the offending member, which was accordingly performed. The astragalus is occasionally thrown out of its position, under the influence of a similar kind of force as that which would, in other in- stances, produce fracture of one or both bones of the leg, or displace- ment of the whole foot at the ankle-joint. Perhaps in general a greater power is required to detach this bone from its strong con- nexions \yith the os calcis, and force it from under the tibia and fibula, than would occasion any of the injuries alluded to ; yet I have known it driven partially from its position, by a degree of violence which was supposed to have caused merely a simple twist or sprain. The bone is almost invariably thrown forwards, in front of the external malleolus; in some rare cases, the integuments are not wounded, but in general a portion of the bone projects, and sometimes it is, in a manner, completely detached from all its connexions. In the museum at King’s College there is an astragalus preserved, which was thus forced out of its situation, and the surface is completely divested of