323 CHAPTER VI. OPERATIONS FOR CLUB-FOOT AND BENT KNEE. The practice of dividing tendons and other textures, for the re- moval of deformities, has now become so common, that it may bo well to perform some of these operations on the subject. Already (p. 254), in the chapter on dislocations, I have referred to the division of the flexor tendons in a certain kind of luxation in the second toe ; but distortions of a more unseemly kind—of the foot, ankle, and knee, may be treated on similar principles. The method of dividing the tendo Achillis for the cure of club-foot, as first practised by Lorenz, in 1784, under the suggestion of Thile- nius, and subsequently by Sartorius, by both of whom free incisions were made through the skin to reach the tendon, has now been super- seded by the more simple, more safe, and equally efficient practice of Stromeyer, who has in various ways improved upon the operation as done in 181 O' by Delpech. This latter surgeon avoided the free divi- sion of the skin, as practised before, but it remained for Stromeyer to point out clearly the advantages of the subcutaneous incision, as well as those principles of after-treatment, which, combined, have given a scientific character to the whole proceedings, which can scarcely be said to have existed before. Since 1831, when Stromeyer first intro- duced his operation, his plan of treatment, variously modified accord- ing to circumstances and the taste of the surgeon, has been most ex- tensively practised in all parts of the world where surgery is cultivated, and practitioners in England have been much indebted to the labours of Dr. Little (who was himself a patient and pupil of the Erlangen professor), whose treatise on club-foot and analogous distortions has been for some time familiar to the profession. The most common form of Talipes is either that in which the person rests on the fore part of the metatarsus, whilst the heel is raised an inch or more from the ground, or when the toes and heel are turned inwards and upwards, and the weight of the body is sustained on the outer margin of the foot; the first of these distortions is represented in the following drawings (figs. 173 and 174), being that form called talipes equinus, and the second kind (t. varus) is exhibited in figure 176, p. 327. The condition wherein the toes and heel are turned outwards and upwards, whilst the person rests on the inner margin of the foot (t. valgus), is much more rarely met with. There arc few of these cases in which the division of the tendo Achillis will not greatly facilitate the removal of the deformity ; the operation is simple and unattended with danger, and may be resorted to in the earliest infancy, or in advanced years, with every prospect