498 CIIEST, ABDOMEN, AND PELVIS. oblique becomes more and more distinct. The upper and outer margin of the opening is bounded by this tissue, the under by that portion of the os pubis which is between the tuberosity and symphysis, whilst each side is formed by the tendinous fibres passing respectively to the above-named points. As the opening is not parallel with the vertical line of the body, the terms upper and under, outer and inner, may lead to some confusion; but they can scarcely be misunderstood if the parts are before the reader, as they are supposed to be at present. It will now be observed to be more of an oval shape than circular, and that it lies nearly parallel with Poupart's ligament. The margin nearest to this texture is generally called the inferior and outer, while that nearest the mesial line is named the superior and inner : they are often also termed the pillars of the ring. The spermatic cord will be seen to hang over the lowest margin, partly on the tendon and partly on the pubes, which is remarkably smooth in this situation. The tendon of the external oblique should now be divided in the line of the first incision, and turned downwards. It will be easily separated from the muscular fibres of the internal oblique ; but some care will be required to take it off the tendon of this muscle, with which in many subjects it is intimately connected. The cord should now be laid hold of below the opening, and put upon the stretch, when it will be noticed lying within the aperture behind the tendon, immediately above and nearly parallel with Poupart’s ligament. If the finger is passed under the cord in this situation so as to detach it from its loose connexions around, it may then be ascertained that the space in which it lies, usually denominated the inguinal canal, is bounded in front by the tendon of the external oblique ; behind by the fascia transversalis, which, though thin, is nevertheless distinct in this situation; above by the lower margin of the internal oblique muscle and its tendon, which towards the pubes gets a little behind the cord ; and below by Poupart’s ligament, whose attachment to the bone may now be per- ceived to be much broader than could have been imagined from an external view. At the lowest point of attachment of the internal oblique to Poupart’s ligament a few muscular fibres will be observed to pass downwards on the cord, forming the cremaster. They can be easily separated from the cord, but should be left untouched at present. If the subject be corpulent, a quantity of fat will be found in the canal, which must be removed ere the boundaries can be distinctly displayed. The internal oblique should now be cut across from its lower margin about two inches upwards, in a line with Poupart’s ligament, and half an inch from it; the transversalis muscle should also be divided in the same course, and both should then be turned upwards in a single mass (for it answers no good purpose to separate them for the present purposes of the dissection) from the condensed layer of cellular texture between the last-named muscle and the peritoneum. This membrane (named transversalis fascia) will be more advantageously seen if the under part of the muscles be dissected from it towards Pou-