LITHOTRITV. SGI ject, at all resembling the modem proceedings, was not performed till 1824, when the last-named gentleman succeeded in freeing a patient of his complaint by the application of the instruments on only two different occasions,— sittings, as they have been technically named. Since this date the operation has been very frequently performed both by those who have devoted their sole attention to the subject,—among the most distinguished of whom may be named Civiale himself, Heur- teloup, and Costello,—and by the regular surgeons of the day. The names of Amussat, Leroy, and Segalas occupy distinguished positions in the interesting history, and it Were needless to name the various surgeons of our own country who have practised this operation. Like many other novelties, lithotrity has undoubtedly been too much vaunted by its professed advocates and performers; but it is equally clear that in many instances it forms an admirable substitute for lithotomy. Notwithstanding the reputed success of Civiale, it seems to me that in the present stage of its history we have not sufficiently authentic data by which to determine the comparative safety of lithotrity to that of lithotomy; but regarding the applicability of the former, and even its superiority in many instances, there need be no doubt. Years must yet elapse, and the operation must be tested in our public hospitals by the same class of surgeons as those on whose proceedings the statistics of lithotomy have been founded, before an unbiassed professional judg- ment can be given on the subject. There are certain circumstances adverse to the success of lithotrity, which should always be inquired into, ere it is determined to re- sort to this operation. The diameter of the urethra before the age of puberty is most unfavourable, both on account of the smallness of the instrument which must of necessity be used, as also that the frag- ments cannot pass away in such large portions. Besides, in early years the urethra and bladder are more irritable—less callous to the contact of the needful apparatus. At any period of life a small urethra is objectionable on the above grounds, whether there be stric- ture or a natural want of development. Any obstruction to the free passage of instruments or of urine, must be a great hindrance, and in advanced years the natural enlargement of the prostate, and what may be termed the diseased enlargement, present impediments which the utmost skill may not be able to surmount. Should the bladder be sacculated — a condition which can scarcely be ascertained on the living subject—the chances of success will be further diminished ; for, supposing the stone to be broken into various fragments, the proba- bility of some of these lodging in such pouches, must always render the results of the proceeding uncertain. But from my own experience I should say, that the most formidable objection to lithotrity is the apparent irritability of the urinary organs: if the patient does more than wince while being sounded ; if the application of the steel to the urethra seems to occasion pain—I mean more than that sensation which patients usually have on such occasions— if the mucous surface of the bladder is so tender as to cause the contact of the instrument to 2 o