AMPUTATION OF THE ARM. 2-27 wants, nr, at all events, such general instructions appertaining to all operations, as to evince to him the propriety of not embodying them again and again in other parts of the volume. The fore-arm may be removed at its articulation with the humerus, by making a semilunar incision through the soft textures on its ante- rior and upper part obliquely towards the joint, which must then be cut into, by dividing the brachialis muscle and ligaments, when by bending the limb backwards the bones may be so displaced as to allow the knife (a long bistoury) to be carried across to the posterior sur- face, where a flap must be left, which, with that in front, will cover sufficiently the end of the humerus. In making the posterior flap, the triceps must be cut through, or the olecranon process may be divided with the saw or forceps, and left in the stump. The same vessels will be cut across as in amputation a little lower down, and the same style of dressing must be pursued. The method here dcscribsd is similar to that recommended by Vacquier, who, however, removed the olecranon. Dupuytren trans- fixed in front of the joint, and then made the anterior wound in the same manner as in the flap operation lower down : sometimes he left the olecranon, at others cut it away, and I am inclined to agree with M. Velpeau, that there seems no great advantage in preserving it. If any portion of the fore-arm below the junction of the head of the radius with the ulna could possibly be saved, I should certainly pre- fer amputation as described at p. 224 to this proceeding; if not, 1 would rather operate above the condyles of the humerus, being con- vinced that a better stump would thus be formed, than by leaving the articular surfaces: but it clearly appears, notwithstanding the sanc- tion of so high an authority as Dupuytren, who performed this opera- tion frequently, that there are few advocates for it in the present day. Amputation above the elbow may be done in the following man- ner :—the patient being seated or laid on a table, the humeral artery secured by pressure, as already described, with the elbow separated from the side, the arm should be transfixed three inches above the ex- ternal condyle, with a knife about seven inches in length, which should lie carried obliquely downwards and forwards, so as to make from the inner surface a semilunar flap between two and three inches Jong: this should then be raised, and the soft parts on the opposite side divided in the same manner, and to a similar extent; the two flaps should now be drawn upwards, and the knife carried round the bone, which should next be sawn through, and the removal of the part is thus completed. The humeral artery being secured with a ligature, the pressure above should be taken off, and any other branch, that bleeds freely, tied; the flaps should then be brought into contact, and kept in apposition with four or five stitches. The following drawing (fig. 126) shows the position of the knife, after transfixion, and the dotted line the shape of the anterior or inner flap. The arm may either be straight, as there exhibited, or slightly bent at the elbow, according to circumstances.