475 OPERATIONS ON THE LOWER JAW. wise precaution, and in my opinion should not be omitted, particularly in operations where larger portions of the bone are removed. In dressing the wound within the mouth, care should he taken, by inserting a due quantity of lint, to keep the sides of the bone from falling inwards: the internal pterygoids and the remaining portions of the mylo-hyoids will conduce to this effect, the disadvantage of which is, that besides causing the deficiency at the lower part of the face to be more conspicuous, it removes the teeth from the line of those above. i\Ir. Nasmyth of Edinburgh contrived a simple and ingenious instru- ment to obviate this change in position : it consisted of a double silver case to contain the upper molars and those below, which was made to fit on previous to the operation, when the jaws were nearly closed. This machine was used by Mr. Liston on several of his patients, and answered the desired object. It is perhaps, however, best adapted, or at all events most necessary, in instances where the whole of one side of the maxilla has been removed. The latter object may be accomplished thus :—The patient being seated as in the preceding operation, and supposing the portion of bone about to be removed to extend from the angle near to the symphysis, the knife should be carried down the lip from about its centre to the lower margin of the chin, when it should be run along the base of the bone as far back as the angle, and then slightly turned up along the posterior border: the flap thus marked out should be turned up- wards by dissecting it from the tumour : next an incisor tooth should be extracted,—perhaps the last molar also,—and the dovetail saw, or that exhibited on the preceding page, should be used to effect a fissure in the bone in front and behind the disease, when the forceps should be applied as already directed, and the separation will be completed by dividing the attachments of the soft parts within, viz. the mylo- hyoid, part of the internal pterygoid, perhaps, and the mucous mem- brane. In the incision below the jaw the facial artery must be cut: the knife, however, may be so lightly carried over this part, that it need not be divided until the flap is being raised, when it can be secured with a ligature, or commanded with the finger of an assistant: in the latter case, a thread must be applied ere the wound is closed. It is not likely that any other vessel will prove troublesome. When the knife is swept boldly along the base of the bone, this artery is sure to be divided, and occasionally, as I have seen, the gush of blood is very copious; yet even in such a case I have found at the end of the ope- ration that a very diminutive stream continued: whether large or small, a ligature should invariably be applied ; for if it is not, bleeding is almost certain to ensue when the patient gets warm in bed and recovers from the immediate shock of the operation. A flap might be made by passing the knife in a horizontal direction parallel with the teeth from the angle of the mouth to a little above that of the jaw, and another downwards in the course of the symphysis, but the external wound might thus be too small, and the cicatrix