THE CHEST, ABDOMEN, AND PELVIS. 536 will do by itself, and also the water, although the former would perhaps be too stimulating for the generality of cases, and the latter too little so. Solutions of salts, acids, and of tinctures, have also been used for the same purpose; in short, any change of fluid seems, in most examples, to be sufficient to produce the desired effect. What- ever fluid is selected, it is allowed to remain in the cavity for the space of four, six, or ten minutes, or until the patient feels some pain in the testicle, extending, perhaps, up the cord and into the loins, when it is allowed to pass away by withdrawing the stop-cock nozzle then the canula itself is removed, and so the operation is completed. The patient should keep his couch for a few days, as in all probability considerable inflammation will ensue. The action on the surface will afterwards be so far changed, that the fluid will not again collect. It can scarcely be doubted that in the generality of instances adhesion takes place between the tunica vaginalis and that portion of it named reflexa, although doubtless in some the cavity remains much as before, though the action on its surface is changed for the better, either by diminished secreting, or increased absorbing powers. Sometimes, however, a sufficiently severe inflammation, or at all events the neces- sary change of action, cannot be produced in this way, even after re- peated trials, and as the patient may be anxious to have the disease cured, it may be accomplished in other ways : a seton may be passed through the cavity, it may be cut into, or a portion of it may be re- moved entirely; and in any of these methods it is evident that a more severe inflammation is certain to be excited. The seton, as I have seen, may produce alarming inflammatory swelling. With incision, or if it be combined with excision, the wound must be stuffed with lint, so as to induce granulation on the serous surfaces, which ulti- mately unite by adhesion and obliteration of the cavity. The latter process, I imagine, is also usually the result of the seton. Occasionally I have found the following method answer very well. After using the acupuncture needle, and finding that the whole of the fluid had not been absorbed, or that a new collection was forming, I have with an ordinary sewing-needle passed a piece of common linen thread into the cavity, in the form of a small seton, such as has al- ready been referred to in the chapter on aneurism by anastomosis. This has traversed the scrotum and cavity for about an inch, and has been allowed to remain for one, two, or three days, according to the apparent extent of inflammation. As soon as the patient has com- plained of pain, and the parts have begun to swell, the thread has been withdrawn, and a radical cure has generally been the result. The S tincture and the presence of the thread have usually permitted the uid to escape into the cellular tissue, and, as the thread has come into contact with the testicle, the desired and requisite amount of in- flammation has been more certainly produced. One or other of the above plans must insure the obliteration of the cavity, and it is easy to perceive that some of them may be modified in various ways, as, for instance, with the needle the surface of the