THE HEAD AND NECK. 406 point is fairly inserted. But before this can be attempted it is neces- sary, in many instances, to hold the wound open to permit the egress of mucus which may have accumulated in the trachea and bronchi. In croup, when such an operation is performed, the necessity for this is very evident, so that both mucus and lymph may be allowed to escape; but the same may exist in other instances. Occasionally it has hap- pened that unless means had been resorted to to promote the escape of the contents of the trachea the patients would have perished. Mr. Porter relates an example of the kind where one of his assistants emptied the passage, by placing his lips over the wound and applying suction, and another where a syringe was used with an equally good effect. In many instances, even after the tube has been introduced, the ac- cumulation goes on so rapidly again that it is requisite from time to time to clean it with a feather or a piece of lint on the end of a stick or probe; and at all times it is necessary to be careful that the tube does not slip out, or that it is not removed at too early a period. In one of my patients in the Edinburgh Hospital, difficulty of breath- ing (from disease in the larynx), came on so suddenly one evening that ere my house-surgeon, Dr. David Williamson, could be at the bedside, asphyxia had ensued. With great promptitude, however, that gen- tleman made an orifice in the trachea, applied his mouth and forced some air into the lungs, which he immediately forced out again by pressure on the abdomen and chest, when happily, after a repetition of one or two such manoeuvres, the patient breathed for himself again, which he continued to do, partly through the orifice and partly through the larynx, for many weeks, until he at last died from disease of the chest also. The tube must be worn as long as there is a necessity for it, and this period will vary in different cases according to a variety of cir- cumstances. As soon as it can be dispensed with so much the better, and the woimd will in general close of its own accord. Sometimes, however, it does so but slowly ; occasionally it continues open ever after, and the patient when about to speak has to place the point of his finger on the orifice in order to throw the current of air between the vocal chords. Caustic, the cautery, or even paring the edges with a knife, may be resorted to with advantage. I once saw my former colleague, Mr. Watson, cut the edges of the orifice, bring them together with a twisted suture (taking care, however, not to separate the skin for fear of emphysema, and also not to pass the needle into the trachea), and succeed in closing the aperture permanently. When Tracheotomy is performed for the purpose of removing a foreign substance, which has passed through the larynx downwards, it will in general be necessary to introduce instruments to assist in this object. Such cases have been most frequently seen in children, although accidents of the kind occasionally occur in adults. Stones of fruit, pebbles, small coins, and the like, as previously stated, may slip