THE HEAD AND NECK. 462 child take the breast readily, with the pins still in the lip ; but unless it be at the urgent desire of the parents, it may he well to wait for a few months. An erroneous impression (as I suppose it) pre- vails as to children being remarkably subject to convulsions while undergoing operations; and this is often urged as a reason for not interfering with hare-lips in early life. Doubtless convulsions have occurred in some of these cases, but similar effects have been produced in the adult, and by less formidable means, too. Sir Astley Cooper has referred to several examples of the kind, but I imagine they must he rare indeed. I once asked Dr. Abercrombie, of Edinburgh, the results of his experience on this point, and he could not bring a single instance to his recollection where convulsions could he fairly attributed to an operation. In my own more limited opportunities I have never seen a case of the kind, although I have performed much more severe operations on newly-born infants than that for hare-lip could possibly he: I here allude to cases of imperforate anus, where the gut has been deep, and when the proceedings have, in almost every respect, I should say, been equally severe as if for the extraction of a stone from the. bladder. Tumours of different kinds may form in these situations, many of which require no especial notice here. Lately I treated one of an encysted kind about the size of a hazel-nut on the inner side of the lower lip : a puncture allowed the escape of a straw-coloured glairy fluid : a collection again formed,—was treated in the same way, and after several similar proceedings a cure was the result. I have seen several such cases, and suppose them to be obstructed and dilated mucous follicles. But my chief reason for using the term tumour here is in consequence of the frequency with which malignant ulcers, in those advanced in years, are preceded by a scirrhous hardness. The red margin of the lip at last usually assumes a cancerous con- dition in such cases, and it is probably not till then that either the patient or surgeon takes serious alarm. Whilst I caution against heedless rashness in resorting to the knife in every case of suspicious character, I cannot but allude to the fearful consequence of unneces- sary delay in such instances. In some respects an operation for a malignant disease must be considered as a last resource ;—it is, indeed, all that the surgeon can do, but the phrase must be taken in a very different sense in such cases from that in which it is used with reference to amputations or the separation of foreign growths: for, as we know of no remedy but the knife for the removal of such affec- tions, and that too before the neighbouring parts, such as the lympha- tic glands under the jaw, become contaminated, the sooner an opera- tion is resorted to the better. For further remarks on such subjects I must refer to the chapter on tumours, and shall here only state, that whilst I have seen numerous instances where both patient and surgeon have had reason to regret that a portion of the bp had not been removed at an earlier period, I have never seen an example where