418 THE HEAD AND NECK. be said to have its surgical anatomy too, 1 shall not at present dwell on the subject. The orbit may next be examined. A saw should be carried through the supra-orbital ridge, a little on the inner side of the notch through which the nerve of that name emerges, and then through the orbital plate, on a line with the optic foramen: next the bone should be divided between the latter part and the external angular process, when the roof of the orbit may be removed, and such a dissection made as may be desired. For present purposes, a general glance at all the different parts within will suffice ; therefore, the first object which should attract attention will be the supra-orbital, or frontal branch of the fifth pair, which will be found between the periosteum and levator palpebrse muscle. The lachrymal and nasal branches may also be examined; and, in tracing the former, the attention will be drawn to the lachrymal gland, which may be observed to lie under and within the external angular process. The levator palpcbne superioris may then be displayed, and the superior oblique, the four recti, and the in- ferior oblique can next be examined : the origins and attachments of all these muscles should be carefully noticed, and the anterior part of the superior oblique (trochlearis) should not be overlooked. In tra- cing the tendinous connexions of these muscles, the eyelids and con- junctiva will be interfered with, and at this time, or even before the dissection is commenced, these parts may be examined. The margins of the eyelids, with the roots of the eyelashes, should be looked at; and towards the inner commissure the openings (puncta) of the lachrymal ducts will be readily detected, and a bristle may be passed into each so as to reach the lachrymal sac : the caruncula lachrymalis may next be observed at the innercanthus; then the eyelids should be fully opened, and by passing a probe or the handle of the scalpel under them, the extent of the mucous membrane (conjunctiva) on their inner surface and on the anterior part of the eyeball can be traced. The globe may then be removed by dividing the posterior ends of the muscles and the optic nerve, with others not mentioned here, also the conjunctiva in front of the ball, and such an examina- tion of the organ made as may be desired. In the present destructive mode of dissection, it will suffice to trace more particularly the attachments of the tendons, and then by dividing the organ into two equal halves, having the cornea in front, the position of the iris, that of the crystalline lens, and the extent of the anterior and posterior chambers, may be appreciated. This is but a coarse manner of investigating what may be called the surgical anatomy of the eyeball: my limits, however, will not permit me to be more minute, and I must refer the student to an anatomical work, at the same time stating my conviction that, without a minute knowledge of what may be termed the descriptive and physiological anatomy of this organ, he cannot fully appreciate the physical changes produced by disease, nor the mechanical niceties of the operations which are required upon it. I shall, however, be somewhat more