INFLAMMATION. 5G to have a soothing and sedative effect on the disease, and I believe that nothing tends more to a happy result of treatment, than complete repose both of body and mind, and a favourable adjustment of the affected parts. For example, if in inflammation of the leg, resulting from some such slight cause as the pulling out a hair, the patient persists in standing or walking much, and moreover takes no care to prevent the surface being fretted, the disease usually assumes a much more troublesome character than would otherwise have been the case. Here, rest, and the horizontal position of the limb, might have saved much trouble. I shall have so many oppor- tunities afterwards of pointing out the advantages of quietude and of favourable position, in local inflammations, that 1 need not dwell on these topics at present;—indeed I have referred to them in this place, chiefly for the purpose of stating, that sometimes the reverse of soothing and sedative measures are recommended to inflamed sur- faces : thus, blisters and lunar caustic have been used in erysipelas; but my own experience would induce me to eschew such means, although in certain chronic forms of inflammation, as of the con- junctiva, or in callous ulcers of the legs, direct stimulants are certainly of service; the application of sulphate of copper, nitrate of silver, vinum opii, and other such irritants, being useful in either case, whilst in the latter, even blisters have been applied with great advantage. CHAPTER IX. EFFUSION OF SERUM AND OF LYMPH. The general treatment of inflammation may be further illustrated by reference to some of the consequences of this disease, and partly for this purpose, as also to carry out the objects of this introduction, I shall now proceed with the consideration of such of them as shall serve the purposes I have in view. Pain, heat, and redness, may all be subdued by those local and constitutional measures of treatment which I ha\c 1 a tel i been de- scribing: even swelling may be prevented, or may subside under the use of cold. Perhaps, however, this symptom of inflammation, after it has once become conspicuous, disappears more slowly than any other. It is certainly, in general, aggravated by warmth and leeches,—by the latter in particular, but unless it increases amazingly, it is not much to be regretted; on the contrary, I believe that diffusion of swelling is a beneficial occurrence, for in instances of inflammation in textures and parts of the body where this cannot happen to any very perceptible extent, the other symptoms of the disease are invariably most distressing, as is well exemplified in