DISLOCATIONS OF THE THUMB. Fvj. 61. 153 Dislocations in either thumb or fingers can occasionally be reduced by simple pressure, with the surgeon’s thumb and fingers, on the dis- placed end of the bone, and it is often of service combined with ex- tension, as above described; but in some cases neither of these means will answer, and a greater degree of extension must be applied. In such instances, a bit of tape, a silk handkerchief, or soft calico band- age should be slipped round the lower part of the disjointed member, and the ends given to one assistant, whilst another keeps the hand steady. The surgeon can then use his fingers in such a way as he thinks most likely to be of service. The pulleys (afterwards deli- neated) have even been resorted to in some of these cases ! and we need scarcely, therefore, wonder at the instance alluded to by Erom- field, in which the end of the thumb was tom off by an over-zealous attempt of a surgeon to effect reduction. The noose (clove-hitch, as it is often called) will be best fixed by casting such a one as this (fig. 61), which can be readily imitated with a bit of string. First one circle is made by turning the string from one side to the other (right to left), then a second in the same way; if that last made is now placed behind the other, and the two loops put on the part where the extending force is to be applied, and drawn sufficiently tight, a noose will thus be formed that will not readily slip off, nor will the extending force have any effect in tighten- ing it to an injurious extent round the member. Before applying a tape or bandage, it may be well to protect the skin with a small bit of lint; and, in fixing either of the former, it may be put round the thumb beyond the displacement, or above the end of tlie metacarpal bone in such a manner that the extending force will act chiefly on this part. The metacarpal bone of the thumb is sometimes dislocated from the os trapezium. Sir Astley Cooper has described the displacement to-