189 LIGATURE OF ARTERIES. the wrist, where it will be found accompanied by two veins between the flexor carpi ulnaris and the flexor sublimis: the nerve will be on its ulnar side. The vessel is more deeply seated than the radial; yet, if the parts be in a healthy condition, the operation should be easily accomplished. I have known a surgeon make a transverse incision, so as to cut the vessel across by way of discovering it; but this practice is not to be recommended. If this vessel cannot be secured at some point below the junction, of the flexor carpi ulnaris and the flexor sublimis, it will be better at once to secure the humeral, than to cut into the fleshy mass at the upper part of the fore-ami; for, although the ulnar artery can be readily exposed by a good anatomist in this situation on the dead body, the wound would be so deep, the division of muscles so extensive, and the proba- bility of great trouble being experienced during the process so likely, that I cannot recommend such an operation on the living. It may happen that, for wounds such as those above referred to, as well as for other circumstances, the surgeon may deem it at once re- quisite to put a ligature round the humeral artery, or, (as has hap- pened in consequence of the anastomoses between the interosseal arteries and those of the lower part of the fore-arm, or in the hand, still keeping up the hemorrhage,) he may find such a proceeding neces- sary, after having secured both the radial and ulnar. The operation will be best accomplished in the lower-third of the arm, where an in- cision about three inches long should be made through the skin and intervening textures, along the inner margin of the biceps. The ves- sel, as has already been shown in the dissection, is accompanied by two veins in this situation, and it may happen to have the basilic in front, either above or below the fascia. This vessel, if it be at all in the way, should be held aside with a blunt hook, and the same should be done with the internal cutaneous nerve, or any of the smaller twigs that may be met with, and seem in danger of being divided, though, in my opinion, little trouble need be taken about the latter. The median nerve will lie on the inner or ulnar margin of the vessel; it may, however, be fairly over, or, as sometimes happens, behind the artery, of which irregularity I have met with various examples. I have known this nerve tied instead of the artery; but the surgeon speedily discovered the mistake, removed the ligature, and placed it on tile vessel. The anatomist will here remember also that there may be a high division of the humeral artery, and that it may be necessary to search for the vessel continuous with that which has been wounded, should he, in the capacity of a surgeon, find that the application of a ligature to one vessel has not been attended with the desired effect. If the surgeon has it in his option to select a portion of the artery for the seat of deligation, there can be little doubt that the lower- third of the arm should be preferred; but he may be obliged to search for the vessel higher up: in which event the same instruc- tions will serve, -even as far as the axilla, where, however, it must