REMOVAL OP FOREIGN BODIES FROM THE TRACHEA. 407 between the vocal chords, and lodge immediately below, or in one of the bronchial tubes—generally that of the right lung—or may move upwards and downwards between the bifurcation and the rima glottidis. The history of such cases usually explains what is wrong: at first the patient may have been almost suffocated as the object has passed into the larynx, then he may have had severe fits of coughing, which may suddenly have ceased and as suddenly begun again : these symptoms, coupled with the knowledge that a foreign body has passed backwards from the mouth, will go far to show the cause of the paroxysms ; but the stethoscope may aid greatly in the investigation. It has happened in some of these cases that as soon as the opening has been made the substance has been forcibly expelled through the wound, and hence the propriety of keeping the margins of the aper- ture in the trachea asunder by means of hooks; but there has more frequently been a necessity for the introduction of instru- ments, and such a one as that represented a few pages further on, for the extraction of polypi from the nostrils, has been used on these occasions. The blades beyond the hinges should be some- what longer than those referred to, and the whole instrument must be adapted, both in thickness and length, to the age and size of the patient about to be operated on. These must be passed upwards or downwards, as may be required : if upwards, probably the blades may be kept shut, and used as a kind of probe to push the substance through the upper part of the larynx; and if downwards, they must be opened with the purpose of grasping the object to be removed. Mr. Porter, whose admirable work on the Larynx and Trachea cannot be too highly extolled, has related many remarkable cases of the extraction of extraneous bodies from the air passages. Dr. Hous- ton relates an instance where a large molar tooth with its fangs en- tered the trachea; Mr. Key opened the trachea for the purpose of extracting a coin from the right bronchus ; I once saw Mr. Liston most adroitly and successfully extract a portion of bone from the right bronchus (the case is referred to in his excellent work on Practical Surgery), and a somewhat unusual case of the kind occurred some time ago to myself. A girl, seven years of age, in reaching her Land higli above her head, inadvertently let a plum-stone which She had in her mouth slip backwards, when it entered the larynx and immediately produced most severe coughing and occasional obstruction to inspiration. My friend, Mr. Stuart of Kelso, saw the case, and proposed Tracheotomy, which was accordingly performed. Owing to the impossibility of keeping the patient quiet, the object could not be seized, and, from the injudicious interference of the friends, it was found necessary to give up any further attempt to do so. The wound closed, and the girl continued to suffer as before : at times she had some rest, but often, and suddenly, she would drop on the floor in a state of asphyxia, from which condition she would recover after a violent effort at inspiration. Three months afterwards she came under my charge,