400 THE HEAD AND NECK. —keeping it, however, much in the same line, and dividing the same textures, though not so extensively. The extremity of the great horn of the hyoid bone, and the posterior inhrgin of the hyo-glossus muscle, I should take as the best guides for the lingual artery, and possibly the same parts, and the lingual nerve, might show the necessity of looking a little higher for the facial, where it lies below the under margin of the submaxillary gland. Were such operations demanded on the living body, they would, in my opinion, require a far greater nicety of manipulation, and a more complete knowledge of anatomy than might be necessary for exposing larger vessels. CHAPTER III. DIVISION OF CICATRICES AND OF STERNO-MASTOID. LARYNGOTOMY. TRACHEOTOMY. PHARYNGOTOMY. (ESOPHAGOTOMY. TUMOURS IN THE NECK, ETC. On the dead subject it is not likely that any idea can be formed as to the kind of operation which may be required in instances of deformity resulting from burns in this situation : indeed, no two cases on the living body will be altogether alike; and if anything is to be effected by the surgeon, he must be guided more by his own judg- ment and ingenuity, than by such rules as can be given here. I have seen several operations for such deformities, and have myself tried the efficacy of dividing bands of cicatrices, and sometimes remov- ing them altogether, but cannot on the whole speak in high terms of such proceedings, although I have occasionally seen some little benefit derived. When a cicatrix has been removed, and the wound treated in the manner recommended by Mr. Earle, viz. by bringing the skin up from the sides, so as to unite the opposite edges by stitches or straps, I have generally noticed that after the first few days the sur- face has gaped as much as when first made, and that after union by granulation had been accomplished, the parts were in much the same condition as before,—in some, perhaps, a little the worse for the pro- ceeding. In instances when a cicatrix has been merely cut across, and where the head has been held in a favourable position for weeks, I have almost invariably noticed that, at last, matters have arrived at nearly the same condition as when the knife was first used. I must admit, however, that all instances have not been alike unfortunate. I have no doubt that much might be done in the early treatment of burns in this situation as elsewhere, to obviate the contraction of the granulations. In the introduction (p. 74) I have referred to the ne- cessity for keeping any granulating surface in a proper attitude in case of deformity occurring in the progress of cicatrization, and a case is