426 THE HEAD AND NECK. such injuries occur less rarely than some seem to suppose. Usually the contusion is so great, that any examination with the fingers is productive of considerable suffering ; fortunately, however, there is no need to persist long in the examination, for a slight touch will detect the mobility of the parts, which is as good a criterion here as crepitus. If there is displacement the fragments should be put in a favourable attitude : commonly this can be done on the outside, but it will pos- sibly be necessary to introduce into the nostrils the end of a probe or a director covered with lint, so as to elevate any portion that may be depressed. Afterwards the patient must be kept quiet, cold cloths should be laid on the part, and if inflammation seems to ran high, leeches should be resorted to. There is a danger here of inflammation extending from the ethmoid bone to the dura mater, and the most se- rious effects may ensue. In general I do not think there is much dan- ger ; but it behoves the practitioner to be on his guard, as it is known that the base of the cranium has sometimes been injured at the same time. Lately I had a case of fracture of the nose under my charge, which happened in a singular manner : the patient was a servant in the establishment of a dealer in bottled malt: a bottle in one of the bins burst with such violence as to dash the heavy bottom against his nose, and thus cause a fracture of a severe description. I watched this man with great care: about eight days after the accident he began to complain of deep-seated pain in the forehead : his pulse rose, his tongue became dry, and various symptoms led me to suspect internal inflammation. Immediately a dozen leeches were ordered to the forehead, a smart purge was administered, when in two days he felt quite relieved, and soon made an excellent recovery. Here pos- sibly these means were resorted to in good time ; for one could scarcely have expected such relief if the inflammation (supposing any to have existed) had been severe. Fractures of the other bones of the face are comparatively of rare occurrence, and require no particular comment here. The last case of this kind which I saw, was occasioned by a mass of rubbish falling on the patient’s head and face ; the bones were extremely shattered, the frontal bone afro having suffered : he died on the eighth day, chiefly in consequence of severe inflammation and suppuration throughout the whole face, which had afro extended within the cranium under the anterior lobes of the brain. Fractures of the cranium are of as frequent occurrence as any of those already alluded to in this part of the body, and are usually of much more serious import than any others, with the exception, per- haps, of those in the spine. The upper surface being more exposed to external violence most generally suffers ; but the base of the skull is frequently the seat of such injuries. The fracture may occur imme- diately under the external force, or it may be directly opposite : thus, a blow on one side of the head may occasion fracture on the other, and an injury sustained on the vertex may cause fissure at the base. Sometimes there is merely a chink of slight extent, or