175 FRACTURES OF THE FORE-ARM. through the bone, the fracture is often comminuted, the fragments being separated longitudinally as well as transversely. The accom- panying figure (80) exhibits a frac- ture of this bone, in a situation Fig. 80. where it is by no means uncom- mon. The lower fragment is repre- sented as leaning towards the ulna, the pronator quadratus being usual- ly considered the cause of this ap- proximation ; but in general all fractures in the fore-arm evince this disposition, the fragments inclining more to the mesial line than towards the surface. In most cases the injury is not difficult to detect, especially when about the situation displayed in the sketch; occasionally, however, in the lower part, when the fracture is about an inch, or a little more, above the carpus, the difficulty is ex- treme, in consequence of the swell- ing which follows the injury, and the pain attending the examination. In a suspicious case, (that is, when from the pain, particularly during attempts at pronation or supination, and swelling, combined with the nature of the violence, there is every probability that the case is actually one of fracture,) as the severity of the injury will render the part useless to the patient for weeks to come, the best practice will be to treat it as one of fracture, although it will be advisable to explain matters to the patient, lest some other practitioner, by using more violence, or perhaps having a more favourable opportunity for examination, detects a fracture, and so lays the first party open to the suspicion of carelessness or incompe- tency. In such an instance, then, and of course where the fracture is distinct, the hand must be kept on a line with the long axis of the fore-arm, and a splint of pasteboard, about ten inches in length and two in breadth, or of length and breadth proportioned to the size of the part, should be applied on the anterior surface of the fore-arm and hand ; another should be placed behind, and both retained by a common roller. In applying these splints, it is customary to put a piece of lint be- tween them and the skin, to prevent injury from the contact of the hard substance. The pasteboard (which 1 in general prefer to wood for splints in the upper extremity) may either be wetted in tepid