GANGRENE. MORTIFICATION. 78 feeling of heat may then be less, and, in all likelihood, instead of the swelling being a bright red, the surface will assume a bluish colour ; it will perhaps, too, feel to the surgeon colder than it may have been, and the cuticle may be elevated at various points by effusions of serum, technically named bullae, phlyctenaa, or vesicles. At such a time, if the part is touched by the fingers, it will feel tense and cre- pitating, for now there will be air in the soft textures. In such a case the constitutional symptoms are probably of less moment than the local, as indicating the extent of the mischief. At first there will be the usual constitutional symptoms of severe local inflammation ; latterly the pulse wall sink, and become irregular; the skin will be pale, cold, and clammy; the countenance will assume an anxious haggard appearance ; there may be vomiting, hickup, and delirium. Under such circumstances there need scarcely be a doubt that gan- grene is present, and it is usually to such a case that the terms acute, humid, and traumatic gangrene are applied. Sometimes, however, when no such injury or evident cause of derangement is present, the leg and constitution will assume similar conditions ; after ligature of the femoral or iliac artery, for instance; yet, as I have already hinted, in such a case it may be doubted if inflammation has ever been pre- sent. The condition may be equally acute, the limb equally humid ; and though it may in justice be attributed to the wound and obstruc- tion of the artery (the latter without doubt), yet it cannot with pro- priety be termed traumatic. It is not my object here, however, to argue such points, but by way of practical contrast I shall now sketch an- other form of disease. A person may have disease of the heart, dropsy, and anasarca, or possibly none of these affections may be observable ; the points of the fingers or toes may assume a blue colour, will be painful, cold, and perhaps slightly swollen, yet the practitioner cannot entertain the idea that inflammation is present; by and by the points of one or more of these members will become of a darker colour, at first of a leaden aspect, then of a darker grey or ash colour, and ultimately of a brownish black ; all heat will cease, excepting that derived from contiguous sources, and to all appearance, as in reality, the part will have become dead, and at the same time shrivelled up. Such a case has lately occurred in King’s College Hospital, under the care of my colleague, Dr. Todd, apparently resulting from disease of the heart. I shall take another example, one perhaps of more interest to the surgeon : a person receives a deep wound above the wrist, on the ulnar side of the fore part of the limb ; the artery is divided, and afterwards secured by the surgeon when he dresses the wound ; in the course of a few days the little finger is discovered to be cold, leaden-coloured, and destitute of sensation, and in a few days more vitality ceases. Such examples as these are, in contra-distinction to the case of injury of the leg, first taken for illustration, termed dry gangrene, or, properly speaking, dry mortification ; but it is often difficult to draw a clear distinction between the two kinds. Dry gangrene,—senile gangrene, as it has been called,—is generally seen