443 OPERATIONS ON NASAL DUCT. that can be conveniently done, and directly into the nostril, though the os unguis may be found the most eligible. Although in general it will be desirable to pass the probe through the nasal canal, it is per- fectly proper, on some occasions, I conceive, to make an opening into any part of the nostril which seems most appropriate. The probe that may be used on the occasion is a common silver one ; but it ■would be well at once to use what is termed a style, which is a short probe, of a length sufficient to reach from the orifice in the skin to the inferior nasal fossa, and having at its upper end a button-like head, to prevent it slipping altogether within the passage. This instrument may be slender at first, and thicker ones can be introduced afterwards, so as to dilate the opening gradually. A full-sized one may, however, be used at once, and retained or withdrawn according to circum- stances. It is customary to keep this style in the duct for several weeks, during which the tears will flow partly by its side into the nostril, and partly, perhaps, over the eyelid, or from the orifice in the skin ; then perhaps it may be withdrawn, when the tears will flow entirely into the nostril ; it may, however, be found necessary to con- tinue its use for a longer period, and occasionally it must be kept in ever afterwards. If removed, the orifice in the skin usually closes within a few weeks, although it continues open in some instances; and when there is a copious supply of tears, a drop or two will now and then escape ; if worn constantly, it is customary to blacken the button-like head, or to have it coloured like the neighbouring skin. The style is usually made of pewter, which answers as well as silver ojr any other more costly' metal. Sometimes instead of this solid probe a tube is introduced, of such length that it passes fairly within the duct under the skin, where it is intended to remain permanently'. Mr. Tyrrell states that he has found such a plan to succeed very well. Instead of the probe or style I have in some instances first introduced the point of a director along the side of the blade, and then have con- ducted a sty'le down upon its groove. Dr. Lubbock, of Norwich, has proposed using a steel needle made for the purpose, something like a director, but having a sharp point, like that of the exploring needle re- ferred to at p. 18, and that this should be thrust into the sac at first, instead of a bistoury, when the style can be immediately and with ease carried downwards along the groove. In using any of these in- struments, the surest proof that the nostril has been reached is, that blood flows in this direction; but sometimes, to make certain that the point is fairly through below, a probe is passed into the nostril, and made to touch the one introduced from the sac. On the eyeball itself several operations may be required on the living subject, but these can scarcely be practised on the dead. I shall here make brief allusion only'to such proceedings, as works devoted solely to ophthalmic surgery must be consulted for more copious details. Already the manner of making scarifications on the surface of the eyeball has been referred to (p. 437). Sometimes the surgeon’s in-