DISSECTIONS. 141 aponeurosis may next be taken off, after dividing it from the annular ligament, to within a couple of inches of the elbow, where it had bet- ter be cut transversely. The radial and ulnar arteries may next be displayed. The outlines of the first will have been made visible, throughout the whole course of the dissection, by what has already been done : but to display the vessel clearly, a little cellular mem- brane must be taken from around it, when it will be seen lying along the radial margin of the flexor carpi radialis; above—between this muscle and the supinator longus; and in the lower third of the fore- arm, on the surface of the flexor longus pollicis; having a vein on each side, and the continuation of the musculo-spiral nerve (the radial) on its radial aspect. The nerve, which is never at any part very near the artery, will be seen to pass obliquely over the radius, two or three inches above the wrist, to get to the posterior surface of the forearm and hand; and the artery will be observed passing under the ex- tensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, into the space where it has already been dissected. Before it gets this length, a branch occasionally of considerable size (art. superficialis voire) will, perhaps, be seen passing in front of the annular ligament, to join the radial end of the super- ficial palmar arch. The ulnar artery may next be looked for. The point of the finger or handle of the knife must be carried between the flexor carpi ulnaris and the flexor sublimis; these must be kept asunder ; and, after the removal of a little cellular texture, the artery will be found in the space between them, with a vein on each side, and the ulnar nerve on the ulnar side, almost in close contact with it. The vessels and nerves are surrounded by cellular membrane, which should be removed as low down as the annular ligament, where the same parts have previously been displayed. The situation of the median nerve may now be examined. It will be found between the tendons of the flexor sublimis and the flexor carpi radialis, a little above the annular ligament; it may be traced upwards as far as these muscles can be separated, or the separation of the skin and transverse incision through the aponeurosis will permit, and downwards till it passes under the annular ligament. The last-named part had better now be cut through, when the course of the nerve and of the tendons into the palm of the hand will be made distinct. When these tendons are raised, the deep palmar arch may be dis- sected ; but this vessel and its branches will be more clearly made out, if the tendons are cut through a little above the wrist and turned downwards. Attention may now be directed to the elbow. By carrying a trans- verse incision, from that already made above the external condyle, over the back of the arm, the skin may be readily removed from the posterior part of this joint. Over the prominence of the olecranon process this texture will be observed to be thin ; and perhaps a bursa, with a rough irregular internal surface, will be found between it and the bone: but this does not exist in all subjects. The posterior tendinous surface of the triceps extensor, where it is attached to the