518 THE CHEST, ABDOMEN, AND PELVIS. line, and to nearly the same extent, so as to lay bare the outer surface of the sac : a small aperture should be cautiously made in this mem- brane, which should then be fully laid open with the probe-pointed bistoury; the apex of the forefinger of the left hand should now be passed upwards to the neck of the sac, and the bistoury laid flat upon it; the point of the latter should then be cautiously insinuated beneath the stricture, which must be divided by turning the edge and pushing it upwards and forwards, so as to cut the anterior part of the neck of the sac, and all structures over it which seem to cause or assist in forming, the stricture : the knife being withdrawn, the bowel is then to be pushed gently upwards until it recedes into the abdomen, when the wound must be stitched, and covered with a thick broad compress (a soft towel answers very well), which should be retained by means of a roller passed in the figure of 8 round the thigh and pelvis. The two hands and the bistoury are here represented in the usual attitude Fig. 224. on these occasions. The edge of the knife may be supposed to have been turned towards the stricture, and it will be evident that its point may be raised cither with the right hand, or with the forefinger of the left. It has been the custom of some teachers to recommend that the point of the bistoury should always be kept close upon that of the finger, and that the stricture should be divided by.describing part of a circle with the right hand,—a manoeuvre which evidently could not be accomplished in a deep-seated stricture, as it often is, without making a much more extensive wound than the circumstances demand. These instructions will give a general idea of the style and nature of the operation ; but to make the description more useful, it will be necessary to treat at greater length of the various steps, and also to refer to the ordinary appearances presented by each texture as it is exposed and divided. . , . If the hernia be of recent formation, the cellular tissue and fat will differ little in appearance from the ordinary condition in their natural state ; but if the protrusion has been of long standing, in all