123 TUMOURS. In either of these inodes it may bo well to scratch the interior of the sac, so as to induce inflammation ; and whether these plans are fol- lowed, or the tumour is burst, a pad and bandage should *be applied to keep the surfaces of the cyst in apposition. I have occasionally, in large collections of fluid in the sheaths of the tendons about the wrist, successfully introduced a single thread, much in the manner recom- mended for the treatment of aneurism by anastomosis. Sometimes tincture of iodine has been thrown into these cysts, and numerous other methods have been followed, all of them with the view of exciting inflammation within. These cysts often require to he freely laid open with the knife, and treated as we would an abscess, after incision: the house-maid's knee and miner's elbow, which, in their inflamed state are in some measure like the cases under consideration, may be treated as above recommended ; but the sac, especially over the patella, is often so thick, that it is better to dissect it away entirely ; indeed, in most instances, with the sac in this condition, it is the best mode of procedure. In cutting out such tumours, the sac may either be laid open, and then partly tom and partly cut away with the knife or scissors, or it may be removed entire. One or other of the latter modes is required for the treatment of wens, for which excision is deemed necessary; and in all such instances when the contents of the sac are supposed to be of a nature that absorption will not likely occur, it is best at once to make use of the knife. When encysted tumours are of considerable size, it may be proper to remove an elliptical portion of skin, and whenever an operation is undertaken, the whole of the sac should be carefully removed, if it is possible to do so with propriety. When the cyst seems loosely at- tached to the neighbouring textures, I believe that it will generally be best to open it, turn out the contents, and then with well-pointed forceps (see p. 7) to seize the membrane, and tear it out; if, how- ever, there is much dissection required, I imagine it is best to keep it entire, and even when it is accidentally punctured, I would recom- mend a thread to be cast round the opening to prevent escape of the contents, which, if not confined in this way, might prove more trouble- some than blood, by obscuring the course of the knife. For the excision of solid tumours, the surgeon must be guided by their shape, size, situation, and connexion, in forming his plans. Rules will be afterwards given as applicable to special cases, and at present I may refer to the description of the proceedings for the removal of the mamma, as containing a variety of instructions which may serve for operations on tumours in other parts of the body. In general it is necessary to cut all the connexions; for, with the exception of certain kinds of cysts above alluded to, and the example of the adipose tumour, both of which may be torn out after the skin has been di- vided, the knife cannot be dispensed with. The last-named growth is usually so loosely attached, that there is seldom any trouble in se- parating it with the handle of the knife, or with the fingers. It should at all times be an object with the surgeon in such proceedings,