414 THE HEAD AND NECK. I have seen a surgeon attempt the removal of a fixed tumour not larger than a walnut, situated in front of the transverse processes of the vertebrae at the root of the neck ; but he durst not proceed, as, after detaching the integument over it, the disease remained as fixed as ever, and seemed so connected with the nerves and other textures, that the operator wisely saw the propriety of desisting. Mr. Luke, of the London Hospital, showed me a mass the size of the first, which he successfully removed from the situation of the parotid ; it had been deep, and firmly fixed, and a vessel was pointed out as the external carotid, a part of which had been taken away at the same time; yet the bleeding was not so great as might have been expected, and the case did well. Mr. Carmichael in dissecting out a large tumour from this locality, divided an artery which was supposed to have been the external carotid; and here also the result was favourable, although the hemorrhage was most copious, and was commanded with difficulty. Mr. Crosse has related a case where in the removal of a small tumour from behind the angle of the jaw, a vessel was cut from which the hemor- rhage was so profuse, that a ligature was placed on the common ca- rotid ; even this did not restrain the flow of blood, and the patient perished. In all operations like those under consideration, the general rule of planning the incisions in such a way as to leave the smallest possible amount of scar afterwards, should be carefully kept in view ; the ope- rator should not, however, confine his movements to a narrow space, by limiting his external incisions, and should bear in mind that the patient’s safety is of more consequence than avoiding a small additional extent of superficial wound ; therefore I recommend that in removing tumours, as well as in exposing large arteries, the external aperture should be sufficiently free to permit as favourable an examination of the parts about to be cut, as the circumstances otherwise will admit of. CHAPTER IV. DISSECTIONS OF HEAD, FACE, AND THROAT. To dissect the posterior part of the scalp, the body should be placed as recommended at p. 146, when an incision should be made from the occipital protuberance to the mastoid process (such as has already been described at p. 367), and another, from the first ot these points, should be carried in a line with the sagittal suture, as far forward as the position of the head will permit. The scalp should now be dis- sected towards the ear, when the occipital muscle and a portion of the aponeurosis, to which it is attached in front, may be displayed; the pos-