TREATMENT OF STRICTURES. 555 for preventing rust. Instead of steel, some prefer a more flexible material, such as the ductile metallic composition for the purpose of bougies, — the wax bougies, or those now formed in a variety of ways by the aid of caoutchouc. The silver wire with a round knob at the point, as recommended by Sir Charles Bell, in so far as I know, is never resorted to now-a-days. The practice of dilating strictures by means of bougies seems that by far the most generally resorted to. The method, by means of caustic, as practised by Hunter and Home seems to have gone almost out of date, although from my own limited experience with it, I should say that it is, perhaps, too much neglected in the present day. I have not had an opportunity of seeing the ingenious instruments of Mr. Stafford put into use, although I believe they might be most advantageously ap- plied in many cases. A catheter, straight or crooked, with a concealed lancet at the point, which can be thrust onwards into the stricture, by means of a stilet, constitutes the peculiar characters of these instru- ments ; and, in so far as I can perceive, they are more simple than those of Amussat, and likely to be equally efficacious. Various contriv- ances have been devised for the purpose of enlarging the urethra, differing in simplicity from that of the ancient Egyptian,—who used the gut of a small animal, which, while it was in the canal was dis- tended with air,—to the complicated apparatus of the gentleman last named ; and some cleverly constructed apparatus is to be seen in the shops for applying caustic ; but most of them are of service only when they are carried beyond the seat of stricture, and therefore can come into play only when the main difficulty with a stricture has been overcome, viz., the passing of an instrument at all; for when once this is accomplished, the case is, as it were, within the command of a bougie. From the above remarks it may be readily perceived, that I give preference to the inflexible bougie as a general means of treating stric- ture. In ordinary cases, where there is no immediate urgency for passing a catheter into the bladder, unless the instrument glides rea- dily along with a moderate force, it is better, in my opinion, to make the entry after repeated trials on different occasions, than to force it at once. Unless the circumstances are very peculiar, success in this particular must at length be attained, and, from the first attempt until the cure is complete, the surgeon must be guided as to the period of repeating his operations by the apparent effect of each : the urethra in one individual may be so callous that in eight and forty hours, or even less, an instrument may be again introduced, whilst in another, four, six, or eight days must be allowed to elapse. On each new occasion a larger size must be used, though from time to time, in getting from number one in the scale up to nine or twelve, it may be well to rest satisfied with one size until the urethra becomes, in a degree, callous, when a larger may next be had recourse to. Patients usually dread the appearance of blood on these occasions, but there is seldom any real cause for apprehension,—in fact, I have often thought that those stric-