INFLAMMATION. 51 contrary, they should, in some form or other, according to circumstances, be always administered. In one instance the disease, as it is evinced locally, will produce an effect on the constitution, so very slight, that the chief attention of the practitioner may be required and devoted to the seat of the affection, whilst in other examples the constitutional symptoms appear so overwhelming, that all his skill must be displayed in this direction. It rarely happens that some kind of constitutional treatment will not be of advantage, and in the early stages of the disease, the ad- ministration of purgatives, diluents, and diaphoretics, will seldom fail in producing benefit. These will often serve to bring the pulse to a natural standard ; but the abstraction of blood by the lancet, from a vein in the arm, will frequently be required in other instances. It is impossible to state the amount which should be drawn in individual cases, for scarcely any two will be alike, either as regards the charac- ter, seat, and violence of the disease, or the constitution and condition of the patient: thus, in inflammation within the cranium, it will be much more correct to abstract a larger quantity than in a case of inflammation of the testicle; in an inflammation in the eye, it might be wiser to take blood more freely than in a similar disease in a lym- phatic gland ; and in inflammation of the lungs, it would be highly proper to bleed more copiously than in inflammation of the mamma. Again, a young and previously healthy constitution will generally bear the loss of blood better than one in which the energy of youth has become exhausted; and the inhabitants of a crowded city, from locality and other circumstances, are usually deemed less able to bear depletion than those of the rural districts. Different opinions are held on some of these points, however, even amongst the best authorities, and there are few of them which do not afford great scope for speculation. For my own part, when the lancet is deemed necessary, I am in- clined to allow the stream to flow until some striking change is pro- duced on the pulse or other symptom, as the pain, or, in the lungs, the difficulty of breathing. When such changes are evinced, then the wound may be closed; in some instances the abstraction of ten or fifteen ounces will suffice; but in others thirty or fifty ounces may flow ere any benefit is derived. It often happens that the prac- titioner thinks it best to be contented with a certain quantity — perhaps ten or twenty ounces; but if the inflammation be severe or dangerous, and a decided effect is wished from blood-letting, then, as a rule of practice, I should say, that the former plan is preferable to that of judging of the effects of the venesection by the appearances of the blood. It may be hours before the surgeon can again see the pa- tient—probably a day may have elapsed, and should it be found that in the cup occupied by the fluid last drawn, the buffy coat is most dis- tinct, and should it happen, too, that the disease is not in any way ame- liorated, then there may be grounds for supposing that much valuable time has been lost, if it is determined again to use the lancet, as in all likelihood it will be. Perhaps, in many instances, the presence or