FRACTURES OF THE LEG. 287 In instances of simple fractures of either bone, I have occasionally given this method a trial, and entertaining, as I do, the idea that the treatment in many instances may be conducted without a splint at all, although I by no means advocate such a plan, 1 cannot but ad- mit that a fracture may be admirably treated in this way also : it is difficult, however, to imagine that the practice will be either safe or efficacious in all instances: it seems to be little in vogue amongst British surgeons, and my own experience of it is scarcely sufficient to warrant my saying more in its favour than I have done, viz., that fractures in many instances will unite as well with this treatment as with any other. It is evident that it is not applicable in all cases, and the merits claimed for it seem so slight in comparison with the manifold advantages of other plans, that I cannot at present admit its superiority. The method is but little used by surgeons in this country excepting in the last stages of treatment, when it affords a valuable and safe means of abbreviating the tedium necessarily attend- ant on the operations of nature. In a simple fracture of the leg, when three weeks have elapsed during the use of some other plan ; when all chance of severe inflammation and further swelling has gone off; when the first effects of contusion and laceration have subsided; when the fragments have got in a manner fixed ; and when the patient is getting weary of confinement in bed,—there will be every reason to feel satis- fied with such a measure, and, instead of keeping the patient the full term of five or six weeks in bed, I strongly recommend the adoption of this practice. The next drawing (fig. 157), taken from one of my patients in King’s College Hospital, will show the appearance of the leg in such a case : in this instance the person was kept in bed with his limb on a M‘In tyre’s splint for three weeks, and then allowed to move about the ward and out of doors, with the aid of cratches, for the next fort- night, when the case was taken off, and a simple roller used instead for a short time further. In several instances where there seemed but little disposition to ossific union, the patients have been permitted to move about with greater freedom than usual, with the leg thus en- veloped, and desired at the same time to put the foot pretty firmly to the ground, and I have been well pleased with the result. I have still some further remarks to make regarding fractures of the leg, but shall reserve them until other fractures in the lower ex- tremity have been referred to. The patella is frequently broken, the injury being in general the result of violent action of the muscles in front of the thigh, as when a person endeavours to prevent himself from falling forwards whilst the knees are bent: if, at this time, the, bone comes in contact with any opposing object, fracture is very likely to occur. It is often difficult, however, to account for the exact cause of fracture, though the nature of the injury is very readily appreciated. The bone may be broken into various portions, or merely divided into two ; the fissures may be perpendicular, oblique, or transverse: in the former instance there is