145 DISSECTIONS. little in appearance from those last examined in the finger, will he easily discovered. The joint behind is covered by the two extensor tendons, under which the loose synovial membrane will be noticed ; in front, when the long flexor tendon is raised, a texture similar to that on the same surface of the finger will be found, and on each side of the groove for this tendon the sesamoid bones will be observed in the tendons of the short flexor muscle. On laying open the joint, the articulating surfaces will not be found to differ much in appearance from the corresponding ones of the finger. The end of the metacarpal bone will not project so much as that of any other, and will bo seen to be somewhat quadrangular in shape. The upper extremity of this bone will be found to be but loosely connected by ligamentous fibres with the os trapezium ; that of the little finger is scarcely more firmly so to the unciform bone; but the others will be found not only firmly connected with the carpal bones, but also with each other, so as to be but slightly moveable. Both in front and behind, these joints are covered by ligamentous bands, common to them and the other articulations in this situation. The posterior and anterior annular ligaments should now be cut across, if this has not already been done, and such tendons as have been left on any surface of the carpus should be raised, so as to permit of a proper dissection of the ligaments, which will be found strong and numerous, on both anterior and posterior .aspect, more particularly on the latter. They will be seen to be chiefly connected with the radius and the carpal bones, or extending in various directions from one of these bones to the other. A short round ligament will be observed to pass from the styliform process of the ulna to the cuneiform bone ; and two similar bands may be traced from the pisiform bone, one to the unciform and the other to the head of the metacarpal bone of the little finger. The articulation between the bones of the forearm and the first row of the carpus, should next be cut into behind, and laid extensively open, when the lower extremity of the radius, with the scaphoid, semilunar, and cuneiform bones, will be observed to form the proper moveable articulation at the wrist; the articular surfaces of these bones being covered with cartilage and synovial membrane. The knife may now be carried between the different bones of the carpus, and between them and the metacarpal bones still remaining:—the opposing surfaces will be found covered with cartilage, and provided with synovial membrane. The articulation between the radius and ulna, in this situation, may be looked at. The latter bone will be observed to lie in a slight notch on the radius: the opposing surfaces being covered with carti- lage, and but loosely connected by a few transverse fibres in front and behind, and by a loose synovial capsule. In dissecting these joints, as well as many others, it will be advan- tageous to preserve the neighbouring attachments of most or all of the tendons. In examining the surgical anatomy of a joint, it will often L