503 CHAPTER III. DISLOCATIONS. FRACTURES. INCISIONS. LIGATURE OF ARTERIES. Dislocations are of rare occurrence in the pelvis, and can only hap- pen under extreme violence, which will at the same time produce fracture. The latter is an injury which is occasionally met with, and is usually so severe in character that death often results, either within a few days from the effects upon the pelvis or abdominal viscera, or at a later period, in consequence of suppuration in and around the fissures. When any portion of the pelvis is fractured, the violence is com- monly so great, that other organs suffer seriously besides the bones, and, formidable though the fracture may be, it may perhaps not be the most important feature of the injury: thus the bladder, part of the intestinal tube, or other abdominal viscera, may be ruptured, — per- haps the spine may be broken, — a thigh-bone, — in short, such cases are often complicated in the manner alluded to. The fissures may run in almost any direction: above the acetabulum they can generally be detected by external examination, and by seizing the crest of the ilium : below—in the pelvic portion, if some force to the tuberosity of the ischium does not indicate the seat of fracture, the finger passed into the rectum will usually do so, more especially if it be^in the ramus, in the coccyx, or lower end of the sacrum. The treatment in cases of this kind is to attend to the condition of the viscera within, in such a manner as the principles of surgery indi- cate : thus, if severe inflammation ensues, leeches, cupping, warm fo- mentations, and such other measures as are usually employed to arrest that process should be resorted to: again, should the bladder or ure- thra (as might happen) be ruptured, the propriety of introducing a catheter, and retaining it, cannot be doubted; then, to keep the parts as still as possible, the pelvis should (at first, or as soon after topical blood-letting as is convenient) be enveloped in a flannel roller. Some- times a long splint, such as that described at p. 295, may be of ser- vice, more especially if it be sufficiently long to reach the chest. It is scarcely necessary, after all that has already been stated about frac- tures elsewhere, to point out the necessity for keeping the patient’s body as still as circumstances will permit. Incisions are required for various purposes in and about the abdo- men and pelvis. The young surgeon will probably be called upon at an early period of practice to make an opening into the peritoneal