252 CHAPTER II. DISLOCATIONS. Dislocations of the lower extremity may now be taken into con- sideration. Such injuries are of rare occurrence in the toes or between the metatarsal bones, and, indeed, even in the tarsus the only dis- placement that can be looked upon in this light is when the astragalus is thrown out of its natural position,—an accident which, compara- tively speaking, is but rarely met with. Separation of the articular surfaces from each other is by no means unusual, but in general the destruction of the soft parts, as also of the bones, is so great, that the injury should with propriety be looked upon as a contusion of a most serious character, which may endanger the safety of the foot, and possibly necessitate amputation. The great toe and its metatarsal bone are liable to a kind of dis- placement of a slow and gradual character, constituting a condition whose real nature has occasionally been overlooked. The disease is termed “ Bunion.” In some individuals the distal extremities of the metatarsal bones have a considerable tendency to separate from each other; and as more latitude of movement is permitted on the outer and inner margin of the foot than in the other bones, any inconve- nience which may result therefrom is experienced in these situations. The distal extremity of the metatarsal bone of the little toe is occa- sionally somewhat prominent, but seldom causes much inconvenience ; in the great toe, however, the spreading out of the foot causes the end of the metatarsal bone to appear so prominent, that this condition is often mistaken for an organized tumour on the inside of the articulation. The swelling is occasioned almost solely by the end of the metatarsal bone, whose projection inwards is rendered more conspicuous by dis- placement of the toe itself, which slopes off from the metatarsal bone towards the other toes, so as to make the distortion more prominent. The feet of the female opera-dancer are always distorted in this way; the displacement being, doubtless, occasioned by the frequent habit of poising the body on this member, and thus producing a “ fantastic- toe,” of a very different description from that to which the phrase usually has reference. The skin over the projection is generally thinner than in the natural condition, the internal lateral ligament more elongated, and in some instances the head of the bone is en- larged ; it occasionally happens, however, more particularly during inflammation of the surface,—a condition to which it is remarkably subject, in consequence of pressure,—that the soft parts actually seem to be thicker than in the natural state. The inflammation may be in