THE INFERIOR EXTREMITY. *282 out that the fragments of a broken bone will unite without the aid of splints; but a conclusion should not be drawn from this, or from the fact that instances may be frequently seen where fractures in the leg are treated without them, that all cases of the kind should be managed in the same manner; nor, on the other hand, should it be supposed that such a machine has ally other effect, when properly applied, than the purposes briefly pointed out above. It may perhaps appear su- pererogatory to remind even my youngest reader, that nature alone effects the formation of callus and the union of the fragments, and that a splint is of no further value than what has been already stated, or, in other words, than in giving that degree of rest and security to the fragments, which experience has proved to be so essential to the well-doing of a fracture: I have been induced, however, to be thus explicit, as it has occasionally appeared to me that some parties, (even in the profession, I am sorry to say,) have had no very clear notions of the actual, and merely mechanical utility of such apparatus. In all fractures of the leg, whether of the fibula or tibia indivi- dually or of both ; whether there is displacement, or not even an in- clination to it; and whether the fracture be compound or simple;—in short, if the limb be in any condition such as to induce the surgeon to make an attempt to save it, 1 decidedly give the preference to that form of apparatus so ingeniously improved by Mr. Amesbury, by the late Mr. M‘Intyre, of Newcastle, and to the still more simple form recommended by Mr. Liston, which latter seems to me well calculated to supersede all methods hitherto in use in the treatment of such in- juries. The splint (fig. 1.55) consists of a thigh and leg piece of sheet iron. Fig. 155. and a foot-board of wood ; the former are joined to each other by a couple of hooks, and a screw, which is so placed that the two plates can be set to any angle at which it may be desirable to bend the knee, and the foot-board is affixed in such a manner that it may be slid upwards or downwards to suit the length of the limb, and fas- tened by a side-screw in any position that may be desired. At the lower end of the machine, there is a cross plate of iron, which is so