DISSECTIONS OF THE NECK. 377 mity of the great horn of the hyoid bone, should not be overlooked. The length alluded to, will probably be about an inch, including any curve that may be present; the nerve will be found nearest the dissector,—it may be a little above or below the level of the artery; and the latter will disappear under the hyo-glossus about a quarter of an inch above the rounded end of the horn of the hyoid bone. The last-named muscle may be divided for half an inch or more to expose the vessel still further ; and here it may be observed, that whilst the latter is covered in this situation by the muscle, the nerve lies upon its outer or lower surface. The facial artery may next be traced as far as the margin of the lower jaw. It will be observed to pass behind the stylo-hyoid and digastric muscles, and along the upper and back part of the submaxil- lary gland, to which organ it is connected by numerous short branches. The vessel runs through the substance of the gland at its upper part, and here it will be found considerably above and behind the margin of the bone, before it reaches the groove a little in front of the attachment of the masseter muscle. In dissecting this vessel, as well as the other branches of the external carotid, various veins may be noticed passing to join the internal jugular, but they are very irregular in different subjects both in size and position. The vein corresponding to the facial artery does not accompany this vessel behind the submaxillary gland, and will, in all probability, have been removed with the super- ficial fascia in the early stage of the dissection. The upper part of the external carotid may now be traced a little above the angle of the jaw, where it will be found imbedded in the deep part of the parotid gland. A vein will perhaps be seen in close contact with it in this situation, which may probably run to the in- ternal jugular; if not, it will have gone to assist in forming the ex- ternal. The artery here almost invariably lies under the digastric and stylo-hyoid,—occasionally it passes between them, and in one instance I have seen it run superficial to these muscles. In tracing it through the parotid, many branches of the portio dura will be observed ; these may be kept entire, and if one is traced backwards the trunk may be exposed as far as the stylo-mastoid foramen, although it will be difficult to do so even in the present state of the dissection. The occipital artery may next be traced, but as neither this vessel nor any other posterior branch of the external carotid possesses any peculiar surgical interest, I will not dwell upon their dissection. At the origin of the external carotid, the internal cannot escape notice, as it is usually as prominent in this situation as the external itself. It soon, however, passes deeper, and need not attract further notice at present. The internal jugular vein will be found immediately behind the last-named vessel, and should now be traced downwards. Throughout its entire course it lies on the outer side of the common carotid artery, being attached to it and enveloped by the same sheath of cellular membrane. The sheath will have already been freely opened and re-