LIGATURE OF ARTERIES. 311 wound in this situation. The artery may be exposed by making an incision about three or four inches long, between the hamstrings, and parallel with its course. The patient should lie on his face, and the wound should be nearer the inner than the outer hamstring: its upper extremity should be about four inches above the condyles: about two inches above the innermost of these processes the artery will be found close upon the surface of the bone; but before it can be reached, after the division of the skin the aponeurosis must be cut to the same extent, and nearer to the vessel, some cellular texture, fat, and perhaps a lymphatic gland or two, must be divided or held aside. The vein and artery lie in close contact, surrounded by condensed cel- lular membrane, which forms a kind of sheath to the vessels : the vein lies behind the artery, so that in performing the operation with the patient on his face, it will be first encountered; perhaps a small por- tion of the artery will be seen on the inner side of the vein, and the latter should be slightly turned to the outside, to allow the point of the needle to be carried between the two, and round the former. The posterior tibial nerve (popliteal) lies so nearly in the centre of the ham, that if the knife be carried close to the inner boundary of this space, as just directed, it may not be met with at all, more particularly if the incisions are placed somewhat high : if it is seen it should be held to the outside. If the operation is done as now re- commended, the vessel will be perceived to be at a very considerable distance from the surface ; higher up the distance is still greater, and lower down it is less ; but here the proximity of the posterior saphena vein, and the sural as well as the articular vessels, should induce the surgeon to avoid the part. The proposal of M. Jobert to cut for this vessel on the inner side of the limb, a little above the inner condyle, between the vastus and the hamstrings, seems to me another of those dissecting-room specula- tions which I have characterised above in referring to operations on the posterior tibial and fibular arteries; I need not, therefore, dwell on its merits or demerits. It has been supposed by some that mortification is more likely to succeed the sudden obstruction of this artery than when dcligation of the superficial femoral is performed : were the old operation for aneu- rism done on the vessel, doubtless this would be the case ; but the fact has not been proved since Hunter’s operation came into practice. Perhaps the depth of the wound, and its awkward position for after- treatment, are the chief reasons why this operation is so rarely per- formed ; but it must also be remembered that there are fewer cases in which it can be done than in the instance of the femoral, a ligature on which will effect all the good that can be expected from one on the popliteal, and is, moreover, equally applicable and useful in aneu- rism, as also in some cases of wounds of this vessel itself. The superficial femoral artery may be secured with a ligature in any part of its course. It has been customary to describe the opera- tion in two places—either in the middle of the thigh, or in its upper