61 ABSCESS. tion of the fluid, produced by percussion with the fingers, is one of the surest symptoms of suppuration having occurred : the feeling of fluctuation is well understood by the person who has once placed the fingers of one hand over the collection of matter, and tapped gently on the swelling with those of the other. But some surgeons seem more acute in their perceptions than others; and it is with all more difficult to detect the presence of matter when it is deep-seated and in small quantity, than when superficial and in abundance. Some practi- tioners trust chiefly to the sense of touch, and the history of the case ; occasionally the eye alone suffices with the most experienced ; whilst, in other instances where there is doubt, some exploring process may be resorted to, such as those which are described at p. 18. CHAPTER XI. ABSCESS. When there is full assurance that matter is actually present, the plan of treatment may yet be doubtful. The surgeon may have to determine whether he will trust to nature to produce absorption; whether he will resort to such means as are thought conducive to this end; whether he will allow the matter to be discharged spontane- ously, or give it an exit himself; and, in the event of resolving on the latter course, what period and what means will be best for that purpose. There cannot be a doubt that large abscesses have occasionally been absorbed, and every-day experience shows that small collections of pus will disappear, either spontaneously or under the supposed influ- ence of remedies. It would be improper, however, to entertain san- guine hopes of such an event occurring frequently ; but, in general, little harm can result from any attempt that may be made to excite the action of the absorbents. Some of those means which I have re- ferred to in treating of the absorption of lymph, may be tried here ; perhaps the external use of iodine, of mercurial ointments, singly or combined, may be of most service, whilst sometimes a blister may produce the desired effect. It may as often happen, however, that these either produce no perceptible benefit, or that they actually con- duce to the suppurative action. The blister is most apt to have this latter effect; indeed, so great is my conviction on this point, that I order a blister as frequently with the view of inducing an increased secretion of pus, and a consequent approach towards the surface, as from any hope of absorption being excited. When absorption has occurred in my own practice, it has generally been under the use of poultices, which had been applied for the purpose of promoting sup- puration, or else of bringing the matter towards the surface ; and 1 have in such instances attributed it more to time and natural results