428 THE HEAD AND NECK. and other active measures for subduing this disease, must be speedily and assiduously resorted to. In concussion, unless the injury be immediately fatal, nature seems in a manner to struggle against such an event, the patient recovers to a certain extent, and then perhaps inflammation may run its course, or possibly the rally may be complete. Not so, however, with compres- sion : this condition may not evince itself for hours, days, or even weeks, after the injury. If the skull is fractured, and a portion of bone be driven down upon the brain, it will almost invariably be coeval with the injury, and though occasionally this state goes off even under these circumstances, it more frequently happens that it leads on to a fatal termination, unless some interference on the part of the surgeon is successful. Sometimes in injury of the head a person seems at first to suffer from concussion ; in the course of a few minutes, half an hour, an hour, or more, he, as it were, recovers from the shock, but for a brief time only,—he gradually becomes insensible again, and all the symptoms of compression become more or less dis- tinct. Such has been the history of some instances when the middle meningeal artery has been torn : the circulation, which is always lan- guid during the state of concussion or shock, has not been sufficient to force the blood between the cranium and dura mater; but as the heart’s action has become more vigorous the extravasation has occurred, and the accumulation has caused compression. On other occasions, whether concussion has ever been present or not, and either without or with fracture, in the course of a week, a fortnight, or more, com- pression has come on in consequence of the formation of pus within the cranium. All these symptoms, conditions, and causes, have been made by many authors to appear very distinct in so far as language and print- ing are concerned, but in practice the difficulties of diagnosis are often so great, that even the most experienced surgeon will occasionally be at fault: the co-existence of concussion and compression has been es- pecially noticed by practical men, as also the impossibility of distin- guishing which of these conditions is most urgent, and there are few indeed who can congratulate themselves on their invariable accuracy in the investigation of such cases. A fracture in the cranium is seldom difficult to detect. If the skin is entire, the swelling resulting from the contusion may prevent a very accurate diagnosis, even in an instance where there may be depres- sion ; the hard “ puffy ” tumour which forms on these occasions may possibly cause deception; but unless there be symptoms of compres- sion, the surgeon may in the meantime rest satisfied, and treat the case otherwise as reason and a moderate share of professional know- ledge must indicate. lie will seldom err in abstracting blood by the lancet or by leeches, and the usual antiphlogistic treatment, combined with rest and quietude, must be carefully kept in Hew, either to obviate or to cope with inflammation. If the scalp be opened by the injury, then there can be less trouble in detecting a fissure, more es-