372 THE HEAD AND NECK. the point of approximation of the sterno-mastoid and omo-hyoid, there is a kind of triangle bounded on each side by these two muscles,—the inner side being completed by the anterior belly of the digastric. If the cellular membrane is now cautiously divided, a little above the omo-hyoid muscle, and close to the sterno-mastoid, the common carotid artery will be exposed, and by continuing the dissection up- wards, the vessel may be traced to its bifurcation. In doing so the descendens noni nerve may be seen, either outside of the membrane which covered the artery, or actually in its substance ; and in raising the superficial fascia, as also in making the latter part of the dissection, several veins may have been observed, some passing to join, or to assist in forming, the external, others proceeding deeper to join the internal jugular. Perhaps an anterior jugular may be present, in which case it will be found passing downwards, on the inner margin of the sterno- mastoid, to join the large veins at the root of the neck. The external carotid artery may next be traced, and to do so, the lower part of the submaxillary gland should be raised, and held up- wards with a hook : the lower portion of the parotid should be treated in the same way,—veins, twigs of nerves, or small arteries being freely divided for the purpose. The posterior belly of the digastric with the stylo-hyoid muscle will now be in part exposed, and the external carotid with several of its most important anterior branches, as also the ninth nerve, will be readily displayed by a very slight dissection. The superior thyroid artery, the lingual, the facial, and perhaps the occipital, will all be uncovered at their origins from the main vessel, and each may be traced as far from it as the present stage of the dissection will, with propriety, permit. It will in the meantime be better to allow them to remain as they are, until the examina- tion of the course of the common carotid is completed,—the dissec- tion being now so far advanced that this may be advantageously accomplished. The sterno-mastoid muscle should be divided about its middle, and the under end turned towards the sternum. The sterno-hyoid and stemo-thyroid may be treated in the same way, and the omo-hyoid may be left entire or not, at the will of the dissector. As yet the common carotid will be covered by condensed cellular tissue, which will be seen to be a continuation of that which has already been divided to show the artery in the upper point of its course. It is the deep layer of the cervical fascia formerly alluded to,—it forms, in fact, what is usually called the sheath of the vessels here, and must be divided as low as the sternum, and turned to each side, ere the carotid can be properly traced downwards. In dividing the sterno-hyoid and stemo-thyroid muscles, and the sheath of the vessel, the branches of the descendens noni, that twig itself, as also the communicans noni, will be exposed, and may if necessary be cut across. As the cellular sheath is turned outwards, the internal jugular vein will be brought into view, lying on the outer side of the artery. In the middle of the neck the vein will be in pretty close contact with the artery, but lower