3 CHAPTER II. INSTRUMENTS, DISSECTIONS, AND OPERATIONS. A work professing the views, objects, and intentions, referred to in the preceding chapter, cannot he more appropriately commenced than with some general remarks on the manner of making those dis- sections, which are necessary for the display of surgical anatomy ; and, for similar reasons, some general remarks on operations and sur- gical instruments and apparatus, may be advantageously introduced at the same time. For the investigation of surgical anatomy, a subject should be selected on which disease has not caused too great emaciation; nor, on the other hand, should the textures be obscured by an over abun- dance of fat. In the latter case the parts cannot be displayed so clearly as may be wished ; and in the former, although they can be most distinctly made out, no very correct notion can be formed as to the appearance of the same structures, when exposed in the living body, as operations are seldom required or performed on individuals who are much emaciated by disease, being most generally done on those of an average bulk of developement. In all instances, dissections and operations on the subject should, if possible, be performed with instruments similar in every respect to those intended to be used on the living body. The scalpel is the cutting instrument in most general use, and one with a blade of this size and shape (fig. 1) will be found to answer most purposes to Fig. 1. which the instrument is applicable. The handle and blade togethef should be about six inches in length; the former of ebony, and the latter of steel so finely tempered, that its edge cannot readily be turned or broken. Ebony should always be preferred to ivory for the handle, as it is less likely to slip in the fingers when covered with blood or moisture of any kind, and its surface should be smooth throughout its whole extent. The blade and handle should be firmly joined, and the rivet pins should be made of such a material as will not readily corrode or rust. German silver is a good metal for the purpose. A stronger and more bulky instrument is preferred by