A RTERIOTOM Y. 4313 infants, on whom instruments have been used, such collections are sometimes observed. On grown-up persons I have seen some examples of large bloody swellings succeeding to blows. In one instance I made an opening in the skin of the brow in an old woman, (who had fallen down stairs and suffered great contusion of the scalp,) and evacuated more than eight ounces of clotted blood: in another, a boy, about twelve, a large swelling formed suddenly over the temple after fall- ing on the part: here about ten ounces of fluid blood escaped through a small lancet puncture which was made, and then I applied compresses and a bandage, but in two days the swelling was nearly as large as ever: again I made a puncture and reapplied the pressure, which then had the desired effect. Doubtless a considerable branch of the temporal artery had been ruptured in this case, and had the second attempt with pressure not succeeded, I should in all probability have cut down upon that vessel where it passes above the zygoma and applied a ligature. I have seen an instance where a small aneurism by anastomosis, connected with a branch of the temporal artery, followed a blow on the part, and it was for a pulsating aneurismal tumour of the scalp succeeding to a wound over the occiput that Ivuhl placed ligatures on the common carotids. Besides the methods of abstracting blood by the lancet, already re- ferred to in other parts of this volume, it is occasionally the custom to open the temporal artery for this purpose, and it is here that Arterio- tomy (as such a proceeding is called) is usually performed. It may be done thus : A branch being selected, the thumb or forefinger of the left hand should be placed upon it so as to keep the skin steady, then the lancet, held as represented at p. 196, should be thrust into the vessel so as to cut it nearly half across in an oblique direction: the pressure should then be taken off and the blood permitted to spring from the orifice, and when a sufficient quantity has escaped, a firm pad should be placed upon the wound and retained by a bandage, drawn pretty tight around the head, which should be allowed to remain for three or four days. Generally the anterior branch of the temporal is selected for this proceeding, but sometimes the posterior is most convenient, whilst on other occasions the trunk itself is selected. In the adult the first of these commonly yields any quantity of blood which may be desired ; in the young person, however, on whom these vessels have not attained the magnitude which they assume in advanc- ed years, it may be difficult to procure enough. Sometimes it is well, when the scalp is thick, to make an incision about half an inch long over the vessel about to be punctured, and then introduce the lancet. The latter instrument may suffice for the purpose, or a scalpel may be used, and then the lancet, although there could be no difficulty in accomplishing the whole proceeding with a sharp scalpel or bistoury. The pressure by pad and bandage, above recommended, may not on all occasions at once arrest the flow ; in such an event it is customary to introduce the lancet again and cut the vessel completely across, and if this with continued pressure does not suffice, an incision should be 2 F