THE INFERIOR EXTREMITY. 334 the hack part of the hone, its lower, its inner, or its outer aspects, then excision may be performed with every prospect of a favourable termi- nation. Portions of this bone have been removed at all these points, and with admirable effect: I have operated very frequently myself, and have had the satisfaction of restoring patients to excellent health, by a most simple procedure and a few weeks of subsequent treat- ment, who had been harassed for years before by partial disease of this bone. No set rules can be given for these proceedings, as the circumstances of each case may differ from all others. I have usually laid open the skin by a crucial incision of sufficient extent to enable me to reach the diseased bone: if possible, I have opened the chief sinus in one of the wounds, and the diseased textures have been cut away with the knife, forceps, or gouge, as might be required. On the outer side of the bone, below and behind the malleolus extemus, great freedom may be taken with the cutting instruments, but on the inner surface more care is necessary to avoid the vessels and nerve. The practicability, and also the propriety of removing the astra- galus, and portions of the bones of the leg at the ankle-joint, has already been noticed (p. 255) in referring to dislocations at this part, and similar proposals have been made for the treatment of disease of the articular surfaces and contiguous textures. However, notwithstand- ing the success attending the two operations of this kind by the Moreaus, the practice does not seem to have had many followers in modern times. I cannot speak from any personal experience in these operations, but imagine that the cases where such proceedings could be reasonably attempted must be of rare occurrence. Moreau the father, after making convenient incisions through the skin, first cut off the end of the fibula with a chisel, and then sawed across the end of the tibia : he next dislocated the foot inwards, so as to cause the part of the tibia connected with the astragalus to project through the wound, when he dissected it away. His son seems to have re- moved the end of the tibia (for he left that of the fibula) chiefly with the gouge, and in both cases the astragalus was freely cut. Care was taken to preserve the tendons and vessels, and the result seems to have been very satisfactory, more particularly in one of the cases, in which it is stated that, although the limb was shorter than its fellow, and anchylosis followed the incisions, the movements of the astragalus on the neighbouring bones became so much more free than under ordinary circumstances, that the loss of the ankle-joint was almost compensated for. I should think it troublesome enough to protect the tendons in these cases, and how the anterior tibial artery escaped can scarcely be conjectured. Under any circumstances I should con- sider such operations extremely difficult, and in most instances more dangerous to the patient than amputation in the leg. Were such a proceeding hazarded the part afterwards shoidd be treated in much the same manner as a compound dislocation. Excisions of portions of the shaft of the tibia are more frequently necessary, or at all events of more frequent occurrence, than those