370 THE HEAD AND NECK. immediate vicinity. Perhaps in making the dissection the posterior- scapular (transversalis colli) and supra-scapular (transversalis humeri) arteries, with their accompanying veins, may have already been ob- served ; the former is somewhat irregular in regard to size and situa- tion, but the latter is seldom so, and will generally be met with imme- diately behind, and parallel with the clavicle. These vessels, if traced towards the mesial line, will be perceived to lie close in front of the anterior scalenus muscle, whose fibres may be seen directly behind the outer margin of the sterno-mastoid. If, however, the clavicular portion of the latter muscle is broad, the former may be completely covered, and the dissector will not have a good view of it unless he divides a few fibres of the sterno-mastoid. The anterior scalenus deserves particular notice, and both eye and finger should be made familiar with it. The tuberosity on the first rib into which it is inserted should be felt, if possible, with the point of the finger ; but it is seldom so distinct as some have described it. Immediately on the outer part of this tube- rosity or outer margin of the lower extremity of the anterior scalenus, the subclavian arteiy will be observed, lying in a slight groove on the upper surface of the first rib. From half an inch to an inch of the vessel will now be exposed, but this will depend a good deal on the shape of the neck — particularly on the position of the rib—for generally when this bone slopes much downwards, as it often does in long-necked persons, the subclavian artery and contiguous parts above the clavicle are most extensively exposed in the present stage of the dissection. But in any subject the extent of parts seen above will depend a good deal on the position of the latter bone ; for if the shoulder be much raised, the collar-bone is so thrown up against the side of the neck, that no portion of the artery can be seen in this situation ; on the contrary, if the shoulder be drawn downwards, the triangular space in which the vessel is placed is always consider- ably increased in size. The subclavian on the first rib, may be observed to have the vein in front and a little lower, the inferior cervical nerves with the first dorsal being above and somewhat behind the artery. The vein is but loosely connected with the artery in this situation, the scalenus anticus being between them; but the inferior nerves are so close upon it, that there need be little wonder that on the living subject the one should, for a time, be mistaken for the other. Before the space in which these parts are situated can be clearly examined, and more especially before the nerves can be displayed, the omo-hyoid muscle must be drawn upwards and backwards ; and it will here be observed, that it is better to draw it upwards on such occasions rather than downwards, as, by the latter movement, the muscle is thrown on the stretch, whilst the triangular space is increased by the other proceeding. The difference may be worthy of notice on the living subject. After the parts have been carefully examined in their present con-