TUMOURS. 124 so to plan his external incision as to leave the smallest possible amount of scar afterwards, and, in cutting the deeper parts, to avoid important organs as much as circumstances will permit. He should not, however, so limit his incisions through the skin as to hamper himself in future stages ; and in removing malignant growths, he ought to bear in mind, that it is better to sacrifice a considerable portion of the surrounding healthy parts, than to leave the slightest vestige of disease in the wound,—the operation here being done to save life. The method of removing tumours by ligatures, caustics, or cautery, is, in general, very objectionable. In some instances of malignant nature, or where it is deemed unsafe to carry the knife beyond cer- tain limits, such measures are occasionally resorted to; but the prac- tice cannot be recommended excepting under peculiar circumstances. A strong escharotic, such as the corrosive sublimate, usually, I believe, forms the principal ingredient in some nostrums which are said to cure cancer and other “ incurable ” diseases: the material, (generally in the form of a paste,) converts the tumour, or diseased surface, into a slough, and sometimes the malady is thus rooted out, by a hap-hazard proceeding, to which no rational medical man would consider himself justified in submitting his patient. I have known more than a single example of this kind, where a large portion of the integuments of one side of the chest has been destroyed in this way: —cancer, mamma, and all, have dropped off as a slough, and the large sore has ultimately healed. It is notorious, however, that death has often been the result of such empirical practice, and I doubt if any surgeon would dare to treat an extensive disease in this manner. One case I deem worthy of notice here: a man had a tumour of malignant aspect in his cheek; an eminent and highly qualified sur- geon removed it with the knife; the disease returned,—was again operated on by the same hand, and once more appeared; the patient, unwilling to subject himself to another cutting operation, allowed an escharotic to be applied by a non-professional party, which effected a complete cure. I believe that in this instance the operator had been too sparing in his incisions. I once operated in a similar example for the third time, and succeeded in completely removing the affection. Sloughing sometimes occurs spontaneously, and performs a cure where the surgeon’s calm judgment has been against interference: I know of two instances of supposed malignant disease in the upper jaw, where the whole parts have sloughed spontaneously, and perfect cures have followed.