ERYSIPELAS. 89 I believe that the advantages of the practice of making incisions, so strongly advocated by Mr. Hutchison, and by Mr. Lawrence, have been much overrated, and that at all events the method has been shamefully abused, having been resorted to in many instances when it was not required; but, on the other hand, I am equally confident that if, in many examples, this mode of treatment had been adopted, the disease would have made less fearful ravages than have been too often observed to follow its course. Without at all wishing to detract from the modem assumption, that surgery implies much more than the “ work of the hand” alone, I cannot but say, that I have seen many instances, where it would have been of the greatest consequence, if the practitioner had made more use of his fingers over the seat of the disease, than at the patient’s wrist. I have known all the attention devoted to a supposed scientific examination of the pulse and tongue, with probably some careful inquiries about shivering, when if the fingers had once been applied over the seat of the disease, such unequivocal proof of the formation of matter would have been observed by any medical man, however inexperienced, as might at once have dictated the proper line of treatment. It is characteristic of the suppurative inflammation which occurs in the early stages of severe erysipelas, that the matter is not surrounded by an effusion of lymph, such as happens in the cellular tissue in common abscess, but, on the contrary, the fluid seems to permeate in all directions, without restraint, further than is offered by the natural firmness of individual textures, and so it will become extensively dif- fused under the skin, or under an aponeurosis, before it will burst through either of these textures. It is in such instances that incisions are productive of so much good. In general, division of the skin is sufficient; but where the matter lies under a fascia, the knife must be carried to the requisite depth. One, two, or more incisions from two to three inches in length, in such situations as to give most ready egress to the matter, both at the time and afterwards, should be made, and such wounds I should in general prefer to the long incisions of Mr. Lawrence, or the lancet punctures of Sir W. Dobson. After evacuation of the matter, the treatment should be such as has already been described for abscess, granulation, and cicatrization ; poultices, iotions, ointments, and bandages will all, in succession, be of service; and possibly, too, there may be sloughing both of skin and cellular substance, when the practice in regard to mortification must bo kept in remembrance. In the severe forms of diffuse suppuration, the system will require powerful support from generous food and sti- mulating liquids. It will often happen that the stomach will nauseate such food as is usually deemed nourishing, and then the chief reliance must be on soups, spirits, wines, and malt liquors. Sometimes the original disease causes such havoc in all the textures of a limb, as to render amputation the only feasible course, and tins is particularly apt to occur, when the disease comes on in compound iracturc ; tor here, besides extensive suppuration in all the textures