AMPUTATION AT THE Hir-JOINT. 3G3 Fewer methods of operating on this joint have been proposed than on the shoulder, yet there is no lack of choice here either, for fifteen at least have been described. The remarks which have been made with reference to amputation at the shoulder-joint, p. 229, are equally applicable here : any one familiar with anatomy, and possessing a moderate share of dexterity with the knife, may without much diffi- culty disarticulate the head of the bone, either by a circular or flap incision, and whether, in following the latter method, transfixion is resorted to or the textures are cut from without towards the joint: neither does it seem of much consequence from which surface the stump is formed,—whether a flap is left longer on one side than on the other, nor whether, indeed, there is one flap only, or that the stump is formed of two. Most surgeons have preferred the flap operation in this situation, and as it is the method which I have seen admirably put into execu- tion on the living body by Mr. Liston, I should feel on all occasions inclined to prefer it, although circumstances might necessitate certain modifications, which I shall refer to after describing the proceedings. Previous to the operation, every arrangement should be made regard- ing assistants, instruments, and other appurtenances, and nothing should be left to chance on such a momentous occasion. The table should be very stout, of a convenient height, not so broad as to prevent the surgeon and assistants being in close contact with the patient, and a folded blanket with a couple of pillows should be on its upper surface. The patient’s breech should be brought close to the margin of the table, and the sound limb should be fastened to one of its legs. An assistant should stand immediately behind the surgeon, whose chief duty will be to raise the first flap and compress the femoral artery; another should stand opposite to hold the pelvis steady and assist in keeping the patient’s body from slipping; a third may also be useful at the shoulders to assist in this, as, from so much of the body being beyond the table, and perhaps also from the mode of operating, there is a chance of the pelvis falling over the margin : a fourth should have the limb entrusted to his care, and he, with the other who has charge of the artery, should clearly understand the in- tended movements of the surgeon, as the immediate and satisfactory accomplishment of the operation depends much on the simultaneous movements of the whole three. If the circumstances are favourable, and the arrangements well preconcerted, the whole proceedings, in so far as the removal of the limb is concerned, may be gone over in so brief a period, that the term “ simultaneous” may be used with pro- priety. On the dead subject the operation may be done in twelve or twenty seconds, and it may, as I have seen, be accomplished with equal celerity on the living. The surgeon, standing on the outside of the limb, should insert the point of a long catlin about midway be- tween the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium and trochanter major, keeping it rather nearer the former than the latter; he should then run it across the fore part of the neck of the bone, and push it