THE HEAD AND NECK. 400 dyle, have been separated. Among British surgeons few have done as much in this way as Mr. Cusack of Dublin : Mr. Liston has also operated in numerous cases; and Mr. Syme, in the last edition of his Principles of Surgery, gives a drawing of an enormous growth in this situation, “ one of the largest, if not the largest, which has been re- moved in this way.” The tumour weighed many pounds, and its separation was attended with. signal success: years after I saw this patient in excellent health, and a high stock covered the deformity so well that the loss of so large a portion of the maxilla was scarcely observable. Tumours of the upper jaw may, like those last referred to, be con- nected with the gums, the alveoli, the harder portions of the bone, or possibly with the interior of the antrum : indeed, making allowances for the differences in position, shape, and other physical characters between this and the lower maxilla, there is considerable resemblance between the diseases of each. Occasionally abscess forms within the antrum, which is accompanied with great pain until an opening is made through the outer wall by means of a small trochar and canula. There may be some difficulty in detecting the presence of matter; for, unless there be a considerable accumulation, and that for some time, too, the cavity will not alter at all in shape. In some instances, however, the outer (or anterior) wall may bulge forward, and fluctuation may actually be detected, in which case there need be no hesitation about making an opening at the most convenient part, either with a stout knife, punch, or trochar, as may be deemed best; but when the matter is encircled with Aim bone, the condition may not be altogether so distinct, although from the general cedema in the cheek, the intense throbbing pain in the antrum, and perhaps rigors, the surgeon may generally suspect the true nature of the ailment. Under such circumstances, he will seldom do wrong if he puncture the cavity immediately above the first or second bicuspid tooth. Before doing so, however, it will be best to extract any stumps or diseased teeth immediately below, as possibly the inflamma- tion and suppuration may be at the root of a fang. With stumps removal should at once be resorted to; but if a tooth is sound, or tolerably so, it may be a question as to whether it should be removed or not. If there is great tenderness on pressing upwards it should be extracted. Sometimes in suppuration here the alveoli become carious, and portions of them require to be removed, but no particular instructions about such operations seem at present required. A variety of circumstances will regulate the character of any opera- tion which may be necessary for tumours in this situation. On all occasions, whether in the lower or upper jaw, every care should be taken to make the external wounds, if any such be requisite, of a size so small and in such a position as to produce the least possible amount of disfigurement afterwards. At the same time the operator should not hesitate to make a free external opening should this seem needful