409 PHARYNSOTOMY. LARYNGOTO.MY. until the object is uncovered, which must then be extracted by means of hooks or forceps, as may be most convenient. Here it will be ob- served, that the wound will probably enter the lower end of the pharynx instead of the oesophagus; but similar instructions will en- able the student to cut into any part of the latter tube above the root of the neck, although it must be evident that there are many objec- tions to attempting such a proceeding on the living body. Opposite the larynx the incisions pass between that part and the common caro- tid : the latter vessel is so near that it must be considered in danger, and in all probability the superior thyroid artery would be cut, whilst the superior laryngeal nerve would possibly meet the same fate. To- wards the root of the neck the carotid would be nearer to the course of the knife, the thyroid gland, the inferior thyroid artery, and perhaps, too, the inferior laryngeal nerve, would all be in danger : in short, simple though the operation may appear on the subject, I should consider it attended with great danger on the living body, and would proceed about it (should I ever be called upon to undertake such a proceeding) with the utmost caution : I should examine every texture before ap- plying the knife, and after making a small opening in the tube, should probably use a probe-pointed bistoury to enlarge the aperture. In my own experience I have only seen one instance in which it was proposed to perform Pharyngotomy or (Esophagotomy. A girl about twenty years of age came under the care of Mr. Lizars in the Edinburgh hospital, who was said to have swallowed a small padlock, which she asserted was lodged in her throat. The most careful ex- amination by means of the finger, steel sound, and probang, gave no indication of its actual seat, and only on one occasion, during the dif- ferent consultations which were held on the subject, was there any evidence that the object could be touched by the instruments intro- duced for the purpose : the sound seemed undoubtedly to indicate the presence of the metallic substance; but upon another trial it was ob- served to strike against the incisor teeth, and as the point could not again be brought in contact with the padlock, the idea of making an incision in the neck was abandoned for the time, more particularly as there were reasons for supposing that the person was an impostor. As she, however, still asserted the truth of her first story, she was kept in the house, and some time after, during the night, the house surgeon was suddenly called to her in consequence of a severe fit of vomiting: during an effort he introduced a large pair of forceps into the pharynx, and at once seized the padlock, which he removed with- out the least difficulty. Whether it had ever been in the stomach it was impossible for any one to say,—certainly there were no marks of the gastric juice having acted upon it, although three weeks had elapsed from the time when it was said to have been swallowed. A case of an unusual character has lately been communicated to me by Dr. Little of Sligo, where a gentleman, during an epileptic fit, swallowed five false teeth with their gold setting, and from all the