LIGATURE OF ARTERIES. 381 to divide the platysma over the vein, and thus obviate any obstruc- tion which these fibres, if left uncut, might offer to the flow of blood. The lancet must be held and used in the manner already described in other pages, and care must be taken that the orifice in the skin is fairly over that in the vein, and that it is kept steadiljr in this position until the desired quantity of blood is drawn. To retard the circula- tion in the lower part of the vessel a pad may be placed at the root of the neck, over the vein, and retained by a bandage carried under the arm-pit of the opposite side; but this will seldom be necessary, as a little pressure with the thumb or forefinger of the left hand will keep the vein sufficiently distended during all. the desired period. When the pressure is taken off the stream will cease, and the wound, being covered with a piece of lint or a slip of plaster, will heal like that in venesection at the elbow. Ligature of the main arteries may next claim attention. The sub- clavian, as has already been stated in a chapter on the upper ex- tremitjr, is now usually secured above the clavicle, when it is necessary to interfere with the vessel, at a distance from injury or disease. Under ordinary circumstances the seat of deligation is immediately on the outer (acromial) margin of the scalenus anticus muscle, and here the operation may be done on the subject in the following manner :— The body being placed on its back, with the chest raised on a block, and the head also elevated, and slightly turned to the opposite side, the shoulder, on that side on which the proceedings are to be accomplished, is to be drawn downwards and forwards, when (the operator standing on whichever side is most convenient) an incision should be made be- tween three and four inches long, and about half an inch above and parallel with the clavicle, one end being over the clavicular portion of the sterno-mastoid, the other over the anterior margin of the trapezius. This incision (letter b, fig. 195) will be slightly lunated, and should expose the fibres of the platysma myoides, and probably two or three cutaneous nerves running in the same course. The knife should again be applied to divide this muscle, and any texture over it which may not have already been cut, when the margins of the stemo- mastoid and the trapezius will in all probability be exposed ; pos- sibily, however, the trapezius may not be seen, and, indeed, unless it is apparent that this muscle has a more than usually extensive attach- ment to the clavicle, there is no particular occasion for carrying the first incision so far outwards. The external jugul ar vein will now perhaps be seen, when it should be slightly loosened, and held by a blunt hook towards the trachea or acromion, accordin to its proximity to these parts: generally, it will be most convenient to draw it in- wards ; but should it appear in the way, a couple of ligatures may be applied and-the vessel divided between them. Now the dissection should be cautiously continued through the fat and cellular substance, when the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle will be brought into view : a blunt hook should be used to draw it gently upwards, and then the space between it and the clavicle will be increased. Here