432 THE HEAD AND NECK. for I have heard of a zealous practitioner persisting in the use of the instrument until it was hinted that his patient was dead) and there is no lack of authority for such a course. Two, three, and four pieces —even a larger number—have often been removed with success ; and Vander Wiel relates an instance where the trepan was applied twenty seven different times with success. Supposing that nothing is found betwixt the cranium and dura mater, an opening may be made into the latter membrane ; for though, in general, the case will be very hopeless in such an example, still the mere opening in this texture will not very materially increase the danger whilst it yet affords a faint hope of advantage. The trepan may be applied to any part of the side or upper portion of the cranium, and a knowledge of anatomy will indicate where the bones are thick or the reverse, and also where the meningeal artery or the sinuses are in danger. The latter I should imagine may always be avoided: the former, if it is necessary to operate over its course, may possibly be cut across, as at the side of the cranium it often runs in a canal of bone instead of being merely in a groove : a small pin of wood in such a case would suppress the bleeding, and any escape that might happen ere this could be introduced, would probably be rather an advantage than otherwise ; for, generally, those who require this operation have been in robust health previously, and (besides the positive advantage in most instances) can well sustain the loss of ten or twenty ounces of blood, in the event of such a quantity escap- ing from this source. The irregular thickness of the bones at different parts should be remembered, and the pressure of the teeth should be made light or heavy in proportion. At the frontal sinuses Sir Charles Bell recommended that the inner table shall be taken out with a smaller-headed trephine than that which has been first applied: the large external opening permitting the. entire circumference of the latter instrument being placed directly on the surface within. Such an operation, must, however, be rarely required in this situation. The wound here must be treated according to circumstances. Gene- rally union by the first intention is promoted, but if clots of blood or other matter be expected to be discharged, the surface must be kept open, and warm-water dressing will probably be most advantageous. When the wound closes permanently, and the patient begins to move about, the part is usually protected by a piece of leather or metal laid over the cicatrix. In young subjects when one perforation only has been made, the aperture is often so well closed and protected by the firmness of the scar and partly by the formation of bone within the circumference, that ultimately nothing of the kind is required. It fungus (fungus cerebri) should follow the operation, pressure should first be resorted to ; if this does not succeed, then styptics, caustics, ligature, or removal by the knife may be tried, one after the other, as the conditions may indicate. Occasionally injuries of the scalp, with or without fracture of the bones, are followed by remarkable effusions of blood. In new-born