LIGATURE OF ARTERIES. 389 taken to protect it. The vena innominata is still less in the way than the other, as it lies rather under the level of the artery ; but there may be smaller veins which will cause considerable an- noyance if divided. These should be held aside with blunt hooks; if this be inconvenient, they may be tied and treated in the man- ner already recommended in the description of the operation on the outer side of the scaleni. The proximity of the pleura should not be overlooked : usually the connexion between it and the artery is very loose, and I do not suppose that the operator will be able to recognize it on all occasions: much care, however, must be taken in pass- ing the needle, and perhaps the safest plan is to keep its point in close contact with the vessel. There is every reason to suppose that Mr. Codes (who was the first who tied the artery on the living subject in this situation) punctured the upper part of the membrane, and though it is certain that this had but little, if any, influence in the result of the operation, the surgeon should do all in his power to avoid it. The ligature, when placed as directed, will be very close upon the vertebral artery, but this cannot be avoided. As this vessel is some- what irregular in its origin, it may be on the distal or proximal side of the thread, although it will most probably be on the former. I can- not, however, recommend that the ligature should be placed near the heart, nor is it advisable to place it further from it. In the one instance the current of blood through the innominata and carotid might impede, prevent, or destroy, the adhesion of the vessel at the seat of ligature, and in the other the recurrent circulation through the branches of the subclavian beyond the ligature might have a similar influence. The same remarks, it will be perceived, may be applied to the vertebral; but here the disadvantage cannot be avoided. Were I asked to state which I thought the most difficult operation in surgery, I should at once name the one last described. A good knowledge of anatomy, great tact in discriminating textures, steadi- ness, coolness, and a ready use of the fingers and instruments, are all required in such a proceeding: the slightest carelessness with the knife,— a trifling deviation on one side or other, may produce the most serious consequences, and no one should attempt it unless he feels assured that he possesses most or all of the above qualities. I have recommended that the sternal end of the sterno-mastoid should be cut, for I believe that the operation will be most readily accomplished by doing so. On the living body I should not hesitate to separate even the clavicular attachment also, and certainly should prefer doing so to that of only dividing the latter portion, as has been recommended by some. If this part only of the muscle were divided, the surgeon would be certain to come right down upon the internal jugular vein; — the branches of the artery would be in his way, and possibly, too, the phrenic nerve would be in danger. On the dead subject the vessel can be readily secured by only interfering with the outer head of this muscle, and in such a case