91 CHAPTER XX. HEMORRHAGE. To save constant repetition afterwards, to serve the purposes of this introduction, and to illustrate the general mode of treatment of certain injuries and diseases, I shall now refer to such subjects as seem to me to require separate consideration at the present stage of my progress. The directions which I have already given as to the manner of ar- resting hemorrhage, leave but little further to be said on this sub- ject. It will be remarked, however, that my observations are chiefly with reference to arterial hemorrhage, and that, too, occurring during operations, or immediately after the infliction of wounds ; but the surgeon has other kinds of bleeding to deal with, and his assistance is required at other and equally important times. Although hemorrhage from arteries is that which is most to be dreaded, it cannot be doubted that the wound or rupture of a large vein may be equally prejudicial, and therefore the surgeon, in all cutting operations, is as anxious to avoid such vessels as any other important textures. In operations for aneurism, or for the removal of tumours, he carefully protects the largo veins, for the purpose of preventing hemorrhage, and other unfortunate results which may follow their injury ; but such veins must often be wounded, or even cut across ; as, for example, in venesection, the treatment of varix, in operations about the neck, and in amputation. It rarely happens that bleeding from these veins is at all troublesome to arrest, unless it be from vessels of the first magnitude. In vene- section at tlie elbow, for instance, or in the external jugular, the re- moval of the obstruction to the circulation, on that part of the vessel nearer the heart than the wound, is usually sufficient to obviate the further escape of blood, and at all events a slight pressure with a pad and bandage will have the desired effect; and so it will have, too, in wounds of larger veins than are interfered with on these occasions, as is exemplified in rupture of varicose veins on the leg, or when the surgeon divides them with the knife; for in such instances a slight pressure, combined with the horizontal position, is sufficient to re- strain the flow of blood, even when the vessels have become enormously distended. Perhaps the most troublesome of all venous hemorrhage is that which occurs during operations at the root of the neck, (as on the large arteries,) and in amputations near the trunk. In the former case, unless some very large vessel is wounded, the blood ceases to flow from the aperture, as soon as the struggles of the patient subside, and the respirations become more natural. It seldom happens that more than a little temporary pressure with the point of the finger, or in any other convenient mode, is required ; when the finger cannot rea- dily be applied, a curved copper spatula may suffice, or the forceps