GANGRENE. MORTIFICATION. 79 in advanced years, the result in all probability of deficient circulation ; but it may be seen at any period of life, as is also the case with the humid form of the disease ; and it will be observed that any kind of gangrene, or rather mortification, if allowed to remain sufficiently long on the body, is sure to become dry. From what I have stated, it may be observed that the cause of the disease is often, in a great measure, beyond the influence of the prac- titioner ; but in many instances, and where the inexperienced might least suppose it, he has great facilities in obviating the worst results. Thus, if in the treatment of fracture of the lower extremity the heel is allowed to rest on a hard mattress, the pressure on the skin, by the weight of the limb and foot, may produce mortification,—a slough as large as half-a-crown may form. If the surgeon is on his guard, and, at the first alarm, so adjusts the pads and splints as to take off pressure from the part, no such event will occur. Again, if in severe inflammation of the scrotum, accompanied with copious effusion of serum, as is almost certain, the part be not well suspended, and kept rather above the level of the pelvis, a slough in the skin is not unlikely to occur, and the same thing may happen in extensive redema of the lower extremities. Here, too, the surgeon may, by at- tention to position, do much to avert the occurrence of this disease. Severe cold is well known as a cause of gangrene and mortification, more especially if warmth be applied too suddenly. The experience of Larrey in Russia, on the latter point, gave ample additional proof of this well-known fact; and hence, then, the propriety of restoring warmth to the parts gradually, by friction and otherwise. Intense heat is a frequent source of these conditions. Sometimes a bandage may be too tight around a limb, when it will produce swelling in the part below, and, if not attended to, even partial death ; the tightness of the orifice of the prepuce in paraphymosis may produce this, al- though I believe it does so more rarely than some apprehend ; and the stricture in or about the neck of a hernial sac is a fertile source of these affections. If a tourniquet is kept long upon a limb, as is sometimes done in hemorrhages, cedcmatous swelling is sure to come on, and mortification would be a certain result were the con- striction kept on. The above arc all palpable examples, where a little surgical skill may be of service, but other instances are less controllable. In the example of gangrene, resulting from severe inflammatory action, as in the kind termed traumatic, there is less probability of arresting the progress of the case towards mortification. All such measures as are likely to subdue inflammation must be actively resorted to: here some will pin their faith upon cold applications, whilst'others will lie equally sanguine in the efficacy of warmth. For my own part, I would place most reliance on such measures as I have already recommended for the treatment of the acute forms of inflammation, more particularly if the affection was very prominent on the skin. Above all, I would re- sort to incisions, chiefly on account of the relief to tension which they