38 LANCET. points at the side, uppermost, or in any other convenient place, where- by one flap or more can be shaped out, elevated by dissection, and replaced after the operation is accomplished. These, it will be per- ceived, are merely simple incisions meeting each other at certain angles. When it is necessary to remove a portion of integument, as in the extirpation of a diseased mamma, or large tu- Fig. 47. mour, an ellipsis (fig. 47) may be described, by two semilunar incisions, and the parts with- in the figure removed with the disease. The cut edges in such cases when placed together form a single line, unless a very large por- tion of skin has been taken away, when pro- bably they cannot be brought into apposition. There are various modifications of these incisions which are had recourse to in different operations, as will be afterwards shown; and, from time to time, the surgeon meets with diseases requiring opera- tion, where it is necessary to set aside all general rules, and to shape his incisions in such a way as he judges best fitted to the pecu- liarities of each case. CHAPTER VI. LANCET. LEECHES. CUPPING. Some notice of certain means of practice and minor operations (as they are usually called), may be more conveniently introduced here than at any other part of this work. Besides the cutting instru- ments, already referred to, the lancet is indispensable in general prac- tice, for although its use has in a great measure been superseded by the bistoury, in the hands of the modem surgeon, it is undoubtedly more applicable to certain proceedings than that or any other cutting instrument. The shape and manner of holding it are exhibited at another page, where it is represented as applied to its legitimate pur- pose,—that of opening a vein at the elbow. It may still, however, be con- sidered the fittest instrument for sundry other operations, as in making the slight scratch in the skin in vaccination, or in opening small super- ficial abscesses, such as the pimple and boil, or in puncturing vesicles, although for the latter purpose a common pin will answer equally well. Sometimes the lancet is used for the purpose of dividing small vessels near the surface. In certain forms of inflammation of the eye, for example, it is more efficient than any other cutting instrument, chiefly, perhaps, in consequence of the fineness of its edge. It may be used to divide certain enlarged vessels, such as are so frequently seen in chronic conjunctivitis, or in the acute forms of the disease, when this membrane becomes infiltrated with serum and blood. In