THE HEAD AND NECK. 4G4 membrane, and as each thread is tightened the two textures will be approximated, and thus a line of junction will be formed in the centre. Three, five, or seven stitches of the interrupted suture will probably be required, and by applying them carefully the union will be much more rapid and satisfactory than by allowing the cut surface to heal by granulation. At first, and for several weeks perhaps, the gap will appear considerable, but ultimately it will be far less conspicuous than might be expected. In distances of small ulcers, when the hard cir- cumference has not been extensive, I have sometimes scooped off the part in this way, and afterwards the mark has been even less observ- able than in those where double lines of incision have been made as described in the preceding page. Sometimes the lower lip is so extremely affected in these instances, and the portion requiring removal is so large that the saliva and mucus escape freely through the gap, and thus a most unpleasant condition ensues. Possibly some previous affection, such as the can- crum oris in children, may have left the chin in this state. Portions of skin have been transplanted from the arm, or from the upper part of the neck, and fitted into surfaces properly adapted for their recep- tion ; but several examples of such proceedings which I have observed have not impressed me favourably with their advantages. The skin is much more apt to slough here than in the reparation of the nose, and therefore should such attempts be made, the attachment of the flap must be left as broad as possible. On this subject, however, I must refer the reader to the works of the Professor of Bologna (Taliacotius) who seems to have been almost equally ingenious with his contrivances here as for those with which his name is so generally associated. In one instance I succeeded in the folio wing manner in improving a young man’s appearance whose under lip had in early life been destroyed by ulceration. Two central incisor teeth, which projected forwards, were removed, and then a scalpel was carried close upon the periosteum of the chin so as to separate the cicatrix and the neigh- bouring parts from the bone: next I cut away the cicatrix by an in- of interrupted suture, and thfus covered over the gap which formerly existed, by bringing the soft parts from e;ich side to supply the deficiency. The result was not altogether so perfect as could have been wished, as a part of the wound at the mouth fell open again; but, upon the whole, I was more satisfied with what had been done than if a flap had been brought up from the neck. I was once asked if 1 could lessen the lips. A young man in whom these features were somewhat too prominent, importuned Sir George Ballingall and myself to do something for him, but we strongly ad- brouglit the edges into contact by stitches