317 APPLICATION OF BANDAGES. artery is likely to be considerably disturbed,—all seem to me suffi- cient grounds of objection to tliis operation, excepting under very par- ticular circumstances, and should induce the surgeon to give a pre- ference to the external iliac for the seat of operation. CHAPTER V. APPLICATION OF BANDAGES AND STRAPS. OPERATIONS FOR VARICOSE VEINS. REMOVAL OF FOREIGN SUBSTANCES FROM THE KNEE-JOINT. If the student is anxious to make the most of a single subject, he should perhaps next take into consideration certain minor operations which he will be called on to perform in practice. For example, in the treatment of ulcers of the leg, he will, even whilst a student, have to apply a roller from the toes to the knee; and should it happen that he is engaged in hospital duties, unless he is under a good-natured and indulgent teacher, he may possibly be more annoyed when he does not accomplish the proceeding in a proper manner, than he may anticipate. For whatever object a bandage is applied, whether in the treatment of ulcers, of varicose veins, or of fracture, it is of importance to observe that an equal amount of support or pressure is afforded on all sides, and by the entire breadth of each turn of the roller. In bandaging the leg the following method should be pursued : The end of the roller should be laid on the anterior part of the metatarsus, and two or three turns should be made upon the foot as high as the instep ; next a turn should be made round the leg immediately above the ankle, and round the foot again over the instep : as it is seldom thought requisite to cover the heel completely, the bandage may now be carried up the leg, turn after turn, until the limb is enveloped as high as the knee, or as far as may be required, each turn of the cloth being made to cover about a third of the preceding, and as the swell of the calf in- creases, the roller should be reversed, or folded downwards, as by such a movement the pressure is equally diffused over the surface, and thus no inequalities will be perceived when the bandage is re- moved, but it will be seen that an equal support has been given to the surface throughout. The method of applying a bandage is easily demonstrated on the body ; but it cannot be so readily described : the following drawing, (fig. 171,) and a reference to that at p. 288, will probably serve to make my description clearer: the roller may be held either in the right hand or in the left, and carried from the right