245 DISSECTIONS. semi-tendinosus, part of the scmi-memhranosus, of the gracilis, and of the sartorius muscles, will be seen to form its inner margin: above, the space is bounded by the apposition of the biceps, semi-tendinosus, and semi-membranosus, and below by the junction of the two heads of the gastrocnemius externus. On raising the fat and cellular sub- stance which partly fill up this hollow, the first important texture met with is the popliteal or posterior tibial nerve, which will be found passing nearly in the mesial line from above downwards, throughout the whole space : if a slight dissection be made on the inner margin of the tendon of the biceps, the peroneal nerve, which, a little below, forms the anterior tibial, will readily be displayed : these two nerves will probably be found in close contact in the upper end of the space ; at the lower part the posterior tibial passes under the gastrocnemius muscle ; the anterior passes along the inner and posterior margin of the tendon of the biceps, behind the outer head of the gastrocnemius, and perforates the peroneus longus immediately below the head of the fibula. The next objects of importance in the dissection of the ham should be the artery and vein, which will be found nearly in the middle of the space, lying considerably deeper than the posterior tibial nerve : the vein will be first noticed ; it is in close contact with the artery, and both are surrounded by condensed cellular membrane. These vessels may be traced as far up as the aperture in the adductor magnus muscle ; and, in the present stage of the dissection, as low down as the gastrocnemius, where they disappear with the posterior tibial nerve. In the above dissection several lymphatic glands will perhaps be observed, the junction of the posterior saphena with the popliteal vein may be noticed, and several small arteries and veins (the sural) may be traced from the main vessels into the gastrocne- mius muscle. The articular branches will be better seen at a future stage of the dissection; at present the superior only can be made out; and these may be observed passing in contact with the femur above the condyles, each to its own side of the knee. The gastrocnemius and peroneus longus muscles should now be dis- sected throughout their course, and the two heads of the former being- then cut across, its fleshy belly should be turned downwards, so as to bring the soleus into view. The tendon of the plan tar is gracilis will be met with between these two muscles, and should also be cut across. The soleus should now be dissected, and the extent of its attachment to the tibia and fibula examined ; the tendinous structure on the upper margin of the muscle midway between the two bones of the leg, with the continuation of the popliteal vessels and nerve, passing under or in front of it, must also be observed. The course of these important structures may now be more completely perceived, the gastrocnemius muscle having been raised, which, as will be remarked, covered them for some distance. The posterior tibial nerve will be seen in close contact with the vessels, though a little on their outer side, and the artery, still covered by the vein, will be found lying upon the popliteus