THE INFERIOR EXTREMITY. •244 internal plantar: the former will be seen passing obliquely towards the outer margin of the sole until it gets between the flexor brevis and abductor minimi digiti muscles, where it alters its course, and passes obliquely towards the inner side, to join the anterior tibial between the metatarsal bones of the two innermost toes; the in- ternal plantar will be observed to pass along the fissure between the flexor brevis communis and the muscles of the great toe, and will in general be found to give off, in addition to small twigs in its course, branches to supply the lower surface of the great toe, and the inner margin of the second. The external plantar artery gives off numerous branches in its course, and, from the convexity of its arch, those arise which form the digital twigs of the small toes. When the foot is minutely injected the arteries in the sole appear very numerous, and of considerable magnitude; many branches can be dissected in the dense granular substance between the skin and aponeurosis ; these anastomose freely with each other,—with some from the upper part of the foot, as well as with others, deep in the sole, and if care be taken to preserve a number of them, this part of the body may be made to appear as if covered with a mesh- work of arteries of a somewhat formidable-looking character. With the exception, however, of the posterior tibial and its two plantar branches, the vessels in this situation are of little or no surgical im- portance. The further examination of the foot may be postponed until the dissection of the posterior surface of the leg is completed. An incision should next be made along the mesial line of the pos- terior surface of the thigh and leg, from opposite the middle of the femur as low as that already made over the tendo Achillis, and the skin with the subcutaneous cellular membrane should be turned to each side, so as to expose a portion of the aponeurosis of the thigh and that of the leg. In raising the skin from the latter part, the posterior saphena vein will be remarked extending from below the malleolus externus as high as the popliteal space ; in the lower end of its course a small nerve (communicans tibialis) will be discovered near it, which may readily be traced, with the branches of the vein, below the outer ankle upon the back of the foot. In elevating the inner flap small veins may be noticed passing to join the internal saphena, and this vein itself may now perhaps be more completely seen than hitherto, as it courses along the inner and upper part of the tibia. The aponeurosis of the leg will be remarked to be continuous with that of the thigh ; and both will be observed to be of considerable strength, more parti- cularly the latter. An incision should next be made through these sheaths to the same extent as that originally made through the skin, to allow their being turned to each side with that texture. Attention should first be directed to the popliteal space, which, when the aponeurosis is raised, will be more distinct than it has hitherto appeared. The tendon of the biceps, which has been in some degree obscured by a very strong portion ot the aponeurosis, will be observed on the outer side ol this space; the tendon ot the