DISSECTION OF THE INGUINAL CANAL. 499 part's ligament, in doing which, the cremaster may be raised from the cord: in this situation the fascia will be observed to be of con- siderable density and firmness, but towards the mesial line it is scarcely so distinct. If the cord be again put on the stretch, and an incision made round it close upon the transversalis fascia, an opening will be displayed in this membrane, through which the cord will be seen passing. The texture divided by this last manoeuvre has been named the infundibuliform fascia, or fascia propria, and the opening exposed is the upper extremity of the inguinal canal;—that in the tendon of the external oblique being the lower. This opening will in general appear circular, and its outer margin will be the most distinct; its inner, however, is the more interesting, as the epigastric artery will be found close behind it. An incision should be made through the membrane to expose this vessel, and notice should be taken of the manner in which the cord hangs over it. The finger should now be passed into the abdomen through an inci- sion in the linea alba, or, what will answer better, the cavity may be laid open (if this has not already been done) by carrying the knife in the line of the original incision through the skin ; the point of the finger should then be pushed against the aperture in the fascia transversalis; it may next be placed behind the opening in the ten- don of the external oblique;—the first of these movements will indi- cate the commencement of the common or oblique hernia, the second the direct form of the affection. The fascia transversalis and perito- neum may now be separated, when the course of the epigastric artery, with its accompanying veins, one on each side, may be more fully ex- amined. An inguinal hernia must protrude in the first part of its course either on the outer or inner side of the epigastric artery, and in the latter case the sac will not be covered by the layer of cellular mem- brane which is attached to the opening in the fascia transversalis; neither will it have the cremaster muscle over it, as is the case when the sac passes through the upper opening of the canal. In this latter instance (the common inguinal hernia), the sac passes through the opening in front of the cord, and of course behind the internal oblique muscle (the transversalis and this muscle being considered as one, as above described), and as it passes downwards it occupies the same relative position to the cord and cremaster, whose fibres are conse- quently in front of it, and usually spread over the surface. In the case of direct hernia, the sac protrudes immediately under the tendon of the internal oblique (the conjoined tendon or tendons of this muscle and the transversalis), or it carries this part along with it by gradual dilatation, and appears at the external aperture of the canal, having only passed across its lower extremity. The cord may be found in front of the sac in this case, or it may be behind; and in some rare instances, in either kind of hernia, it may be split, one part be- ing in front, the other behind the tumour. In both forms of the protrusion it will be observed that the superficial and intercolumnar