430 THE HEAD AND NECK. causing additional injury : there is no urgent necessity for this, how- ever, unless the fragment be fairly driven into the brain, and it would only be in the event of compression occurring, whether in cases of compound or of simple fracture with slight depression, that I should make incisions to elevate the sunken bone. If a person had received a blow on the temple, and if from the symptoms I suspected effusion of blood from the meningeal artery, I should not hesitate to perforate the cranium with a trephine, over the supposed collection ; and in the event of compression coming on in the course of a number of days, and when suppuration might be suspected, the same method might be adopted. Here, however, it might be difficult to determine on the part to which the trephine should be applied. Where blood has been suspected, I have seen great hesita- tion on the latter point, and so, also, there may be the same in the supposition of an abscess being present. In the latter case, the wound on the surface would probably be selected, more especially if the bone around seemed diminished in its vascularity, or altogether deprived of vessels. My limits will not permit of more than the above brief sketch of these most interesting subjects, and having others of equal import- ance, as regards the design of this work, still to refer to, I shall not dwell longer upon them, but will only state further, as I have already so frequently done regarding other matters, that the treatment of such cases must be conducted on those general principles of practice which any individual with a diploma is presumed to possess. When a depressed portion of bone has to be raised, it is almost im- possible to apply an instrument for the purpose with proper effect, without making an aperture in the cranium : if a foreign body, such as a musket bullet or other similar missile is the cause of compression, it may be necessary to make an opening to permit its extraction, and the same is required when blood or matter must be evacuated. A circular saw is generally used on these occasions ; it is technically called a trepan or trephine, and in consequence the operation is named trepanning or trephining. The trephine put into the modern surgeon’s Armamentarium is similar to that represented in the next drawing: it is worked by turning the hand backwards and forwards, but some even yet prefer the instrument of Hildanus, which is worked like the carpenter’s or cooper’s brace. I myself prefer the hand trephine such as is exhibited in figure 201, and it maybe used thus : the scalp must be sufficiently opened by a incision or any other that may be most convenient, next a punch should be used to make a small hole in the external table into which the central pin of the trephine should be placed, and then by rotatory motions the teeth should be carried into the bone : the external table