129 AMPUTATION. see that such is really the case,—until I see a certain number of am- putations by these two methods, done by the same surgeon, or by two who are equally competent, and find all the evils on one side, and the advantages on the other. It seems to me that some such proof as this is still wanting for the surgeons of the present day. It is not to be overlooked that some of the most distinguished in the profession have ahnost invariably performed the circular operation, and surely all the stumps formed by these gentlemen were not so bad as the advocates for the flap would lead us to suppose. I believe I am correct in stating that, even in the present day, more ampu- tations are done by the circular than by the other mode; and, fifteen or twenty years back, I imagine that not one surgeon in fifty ever thought of performing any other operation than the circular. I know of excellent practitioners in large practice, who have never seen the flap, and can vouch for the excellence of the stumps made by these gentlemen. If a circular operation is improperly performed, the whole catalogue of evils may result; but the same may ensue from the method by flap. I do not here speak from conjecture, for I have seen as tho- rough protrusion of bone after a flap operation as after a circular. If, in the latter,, the incisions are made directly down to the bone, no adequate provision being made for covering its cut end, or if the operator has failed in doing so, then there is no calculating what may follow : if, by the other operation the flaps are not well made,— too short, and selected from improper parts of the limb,—the same evils may ensue. In short, in so far as my experience goes, the evils resulting from one operation may be as great as from the other, accord- ing to the manner in which each is performed, the nature of the coverings, the condition of the parts, or of the constitution; and all. too, must be the result of a badly-performed operation by either mode. The latter circumstance constitutes, I believe, the main part of the difference between the two, as a circular operation is much more likely to be ill done than one by flap,—it is, in fact, a more difficult proceeding, or at all events there is greater chance of a mis- take occurring in the one than in the other. With these views, then, it may seem strange why I should not have operated ahnost as frequently by the one method as the other; but the latter part of the above observations probably tells the cause. Sir George Ballingall, after nearly thirteen years’ experience in military hospitals, and more than fifteen in civil institutions,—who, as has already been stated, during his period of operating in the Royal In- firmary of Edinburgh, performed the flap operation invariably (I think) whilst I had an opportunity of observing,—who may, notwithstand- ing, be considered less prejudiced than some other authorities, thus writes: “ The flap operation is a seductive one, and I can speak from my own experience when I say, that it is an operation which one is unwilling to relinquish after having once experienced the comparative facility of its execution.” The last part of this sentence implies, in K #