THE SUPERIOR EXTREMITY. J 94 wound, the arterial branches, if any are divided, may be readily com- pressed or tied. When the muscular fibres are divided,—a step of the operation which should be done cautiously on the point of the fore- finger or a director,—the loose cellular membrane and fat, between the pectoralis minor and subclavius, should be carefully raised and turned aside; the vein will then be brought into view, when, by having it held a little downwards with a blunt hook or spatula, the artery will be discovered and may be laid bare, but to such an extent only as to allow the needle to be passed around it, which should be done from below upwards, taking care, by keeping the point of the instrument in contact with the vessel, to exclude any branch of the axillary plexus of nerves, all of which lie on its upper and posterior side. If the patient is unsteady, or the surgeon is unwilling to use the blade of a common scalpel in the deep parts of the wound, he may advantageously separate the cellular membrane near the ves- sels with the handle of the instrument, or tear it with a blunt steel or silver spatula, which cannot endanger the division of any more important texture. Notwithstanding the success of this operation in the hands of Keate and Chamberlayne, and that it has occasionally been practised and recommended by most competent authorities, it appears evident, either that the cases admitting or requiring the operation are few in number, or that a very general preference has been given to that of Mr. Ramsden above the clavicle, which in the present day seems the only method pursued in axillary aneurism, unless it be to trace the subclavian still nearer the heart. In examples of wounds of the axillary artery, it must, indeed, be rare to meet with such an instance as that which occurred to Mr. Hall (Bell on Wounds, p. 60, 3rd edit.), which, however, was only in the upper part of the humeral. It will more usually be observed that the injury to the vein, nerves, and other textures, leaves so small a chance of the arm sur- viving, that the surgeon may reasonably take into consideration the propriety of amputating at the shoulder-joint. A most interesting case of diffused aneurism in the axilla, the result of an injury (dislocation, I believe, of the shoulder), occurred some years ago in the practice of Hr. Nicliol of Inverness: Mr. Syme, of Edinburgh, placed a ligature on the subclavian above the clavicle, but the hemorrhage still seeming to go on, amputation at the shoulder-joint was performed (Syme’s Principles of Surgery, p. 115, 3rd edit.), and the result was success- ful. No time elapsed in this instance, after ligature of the artery, to permit the occurrence of gangrene, as happened in the case related by Mr. White, and also in that which occurred to Desault, in both of which, had amputation been performed, instead of deligation of the main artery, the patients would in all probability have been saved.