383 LIGATURE OP ARTERIES. the living body, may be kept in apposition with a couple of stitches, and treated according to rules laid down in other parts of this volume. On the dead subject the operation, as just described, may be rea- dily accomplished;—few of the difficulties which have occasionally been encountered on the living can now be met with. Sometimes, when the neck is short and muscular, the clavicle high, and the veins are turgid, there may be trouble, but not such as can be compared with that which may occur in practice. As has already been seen in the dissection, and as may now be observed, when the shoulder is ele- vated, the artery is nearly covered by the clavicle, and as a large aneurismal tumour in the axilla will have a similar effect, the diffi- culty in reaching the vessel under such circumstances may be thus in some measure appreciated, for when there is a tumour present the shoulder cannot be held down as when the parts are in a more natural condition. In an operation of this kind occuring in my own practice, the ligature within the wound was two inches and a quarter long, and yet the tumour in the axilla was not by any means so large as others which have been seen in this situation. On the living body, the hemorrhage, especially if there is disease in the axilla, may be very troublesome, more particularly from small veins, which may not attract much notice in the healthy state of the parts. In such cases, if pressure cannot be applied with effect, I should not hesitate to apply ligatures to all the bleeding points; and here, as also with the external jugular, if this vessel should be tied as above recommended, I should be inclined to allow the ligatures to remain; for in all the operations on the large arteries at the root of the neck, which I have witnessed, where temporary ligatures have been used, I have invariably noticed that, after the patient has been put to bed, bleeding has occurred generally from the upper end of the ves- sels. Sometimes a vein may be so deep that a noose cannot be cast around it, or if, unfortunately, the subclavian itself should be wounded, then pressure after the operation can alone be depended upon. The main vein, however, is generally so far in front of and below the artery that, witli ordinary precaution, there will be little difficulty in avoid- ing it. The supra-scapular and transversalis colli arteries are both in danger, and it is not easy to say which may be most so: the former is usually protected in some degree by the clavicle, and the latter is perhaps most in the way,—-but is irregular in size and posi- tion, and as both may be so, it will be well to have a sharp eye on the textures about to be cut. Were either of these vessels divided, or any other artery of considerable size, a ligature would be necessary. Both touch and sight may be of the utmost service here, but they are not always so available as the dissector may imagine. Sometimes the pulsation of the main artery cannot be felt with the point of the forefinger, as once happened to myself, when the tunics were thick- ened ; and on other occasions they may be so feeble as to cause some doubt, as happened to Professor Todd of Dublin. The depth of