306 CHAPTER IV. LIGATURE OF ARTERIES. Ligature of one or other of the arteries of the inferior extremity may be required on the living body, and such operations should be practised on the dead subject. Spontaneous aneurism is rarely seen in a vessel of the magnitude of the anterior tibial: it may, however, be the seat of false aneu- rism, resulting from a wound; or, in such an injury the external hemorrhage may be great, and either example may require the inter- ference of the surgeon. Again, it may be deemed advisable to deligate the artery in consequence of severe bleeding from the sole of the foot; or, in other instances, to restrain the growth of, or obliterate, aneurism by anastomosis in this region. In the example of aneurism resulting from a wound, if the tumour is not large, and there be no complication or circumstance to in- duce the surgeon to act otherwise, I imagine there can be little doubt that cutting down to the vessel at the seat of the disease, through the aneurismal swelling, sponging out the blood, and placing a ligature above and below the orifice in the same manner as is done for varicose aneurism in the ami, is the proper practice to be pursued ; but in an instance of wound of this vessel in simple fracture, as might possibly happen, such a plan would be very questionable, as the fracture would thereby be rendered compound; here ligature of the vessel above, or of the femoral, would perhaps be the best proceeding. The tumour may, however, be large, or the blood may be extensively extravasated through all the soft textures: it may be doubtful whe- ther it will be better to cut into the swelling under these circumstances, or to restrain further bleeding by ligature above : again, when the anterior tibial is opened by wound, the injury done to the bones and other parts may actually induce the surgeon to amputate the limb. In cutting down to the vessel in the case of a wound bleeding from the surface, or in the instance of opening the aneurismal swelling, after a sufficiently free aperture has been made in the integuments, the stream of blood will perhaps be the best guide to the bleeding orifice. It will be proper in such cases to apply the tourniquet on the thigh, and if there is any difficulty in detecting the vessel, the pressure may be relaxed, when the blood will flow. In either of these cases the incisions on the surface must be made in the imme- diate vicinity of the wound in the vessel; but, in other examples, the surgeon may have a choice of parts through which he may cut. Over the arch of the foot the vessel may be readily exposed ; indeed, it lies so near the surface in this situation, that I have known it divided by a surgeon whilst making incisions through the skin in the treatment of erysipelas: an incision, an inch and a half or two inches in length,