THE SUPERIOR EXTREMITY. 100 be remembered, that the coraco-brachialis muscle intervenes be- tween the short head of the biceps and the vessel. The veins and nerves will occupy nearly the same relative position, only the latter will be closer to each other, and the former somewhat larger in calibre. The drawing of the arm (fig. 95) with the dotted lines will give an idea of the position of the incisions above recommended; but it may be well to remember that much longer lines than these proportions in- dicate may occasionally be of advantage. When the humeral artery has been punctured in venesection, the surgeon may wish to try the effect of pressure, before he thinks of securing the vessel with a ligature, and for this purpose each finger, and the thumb also, should be surrounded with a narrow bandage; long narrow folds of lint should be placed over the radial and ulnar arteries, and along the humeral for two or three inches above the wound, and these should be firmly retained with a common-sized roller, care being taken that the pressure is not so great as to obstruct the circulation completely. Mr. Tyrrell has related five examples of successful practice by pressure. Though it is quite possible that this plan will succeed in obviating the bad effects of such an injury, the probability is, that it will not, and a species of aneurism will be the result. The wound in the skin seems to close as readily in these cases as if no such accident had occurred. The internal state of matters varies, however :—thus, the blood may pass directly from the artery into the vein, the two vessels being in close contact, when the latter will become much enlarged in size in the vicinity of the communication, and the branches of the former (radial and ulnar) diminished, in consequence of the usual quantity of blood not passing through them. The drawing (fig. 96) admirably illustrates the external aspect of this form of disease, to which the name of aneurismal varix is usually given, and the figure (97) immediately below, shews the communication between the artery and vein. In another instance a communication may exist between the two vessels by means of a little aneurismal sac.