OPERATIONS ON THE RECTUM. 533 find it most convenient, when the patient stands as above directed, to use the bistoury in the left hand ; or if he has not sufficient ambi- dexterity for this, he may have the patient placed on his back, with his knees in the air, as for lithotomy. In any position a couple of stout assistants will be of service to keep the patient steady ; for if Ire is at all unruly, as often happens, the proceedings will be rendered somewhat annoying, and'possibly the blade of the bistoury may be broken during the struggles, and remain in the wound. I have seen this happen in the hands of a most dexterous operator; and at all times whatever force may be used with this instrument, care should be taken that the blade does not wheel round, so as to be strained sidewise, for it is then very apt to snap. The cutlers often erroneously make a kind of notch near the heel of this instrument, which causes it to be very deficient in this situation ; and it is here where it usually breaks. The flat surface of the blade should slope gradually from the handle to the point. The division of other sinuses in the perineum, such as those con- stituting urinary fistulae, require no especial notice here, neither does it seem necessary to refer particularly to the manner of introducing instruments into the rectum, although cases requiring such manipu- lations are of frequent occurrence in the practice of surgery. Here, as in other parts of the body, the young surgeon should accustom his finger to the examination of the interior of the gut, whether for the sake of ascertaining the condition of the tube itself or the contiguous parts, such as the bones, prostate gland, and neck of the bladder, (as already adverted to at p. 504,) or for detecting the presence of foreign sub- stances. In the latter instance it is occasionally requisite to introduce instruments, perhaps lithotomy or midwifery forceps, to extract large substances, such as pieces of wood and stones, which have been intro- duced by the persons themselves. In the Medical Gazette for 19th August, 1842, Mr. Russel, of Aberdeen, gives the history of an indi- vidual who seemingly has a remarkable propensity for introducing stones within the anus ; he (the patient) himself had extracted, after the surgeons had failed, one weighing thirty-two ounces, and another had been removed with midwifery forceps by Dr. Moir, six months previously, weighing twenty-nine ounces. In the same journal, for 18th February, 1842, there is a case related where Mr. B. Phillips extracted, after the patient’s death, a portion of a walking-stick; and several examples of a similar nature are referred to. In some in- stances the fingers will suffice to extract a small object, such as a bone which may have been swallowed and been arrested in its course downwards in this part of the canal; and on some occasions the finger may be most advantageously used in severing and extracting portions of hardened feculent matter on which ordinary enemata produce no effect. The removal of the anus and a portion of the rectum for malignant disease, such as scirrhus and open cancer, as recommended and fol- lowed by Lisfranc, seems to have few advocates in this country. My