PART III. OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITY. CHAPTER I. DISSECTIONS. 4 The back of the foot and upper surface of the toes may be first dis- sected. The subject being placed on its back, an incision should be made through the skin, a little above the ankle joint, from one side of the leg to the other; the knife should then be carried from the centre of this along the upper part of the foot, as far as the nail of the second toe. The skin and subcutaneous cellular texture should be turned to each side, a transverse incision being made at the root of each toe. Along the upper surface of the great toe another incision should be made, as far as the nail, and if the skin is taken off this and the second, there is no occasion to meddle with the others. Branches of veins will be found on the upper surface of the foot, which may be traced leading, on each side, towards the saphena major and minor. There are small twigs of nerves here also, but none of these are considered of much surgical importance. This stage of the dissection will have exposed the anterior annular ligament and the transverse fibres which bind the extensor tendons on the dorsum of the foot. By cutting through the ligament and fibres these tendons may be traced to their respective attachments, as far as the state of the dissection on the toes will permit. The anterior tibial artery will be observed between the tendons of the extensor proprius pollicis and the extensor longus digitorum. The vessel should be traced upwards as far as the dissection extends, and downwards until it disappears between the metatarsal bones of the first and se- cond toe. Several branches will be observed passing from it, above and below the ankle, to supply the lower part of the leg and dorsum of the foot; but none of them are of such surgical moment as to require especial notice. On the outer surface of the os calcis, below the mal- leolus externus, an artery of considerable size may be discovered : it is, in general, a continuation of the fibular, and will be found to anas- tomose on the outer margin of the foot, with some of the tarsal branches of the anterior tibial.