99 CHAPTER XXII. DISLOCATIONS AND FRACTURES. So much will be afterwards said on the subject of dislocations, when each individual kind is referred to, that but few general obser- vations are here required regarding them. A simple dislocation may be looked upon as a severe contused and lacerated wound, which, however, (the parts not being exposed to the air,) has all the tendency to heal kindly; but if the dislocation be compound,—if, in other words, the injured joint be exposed to the air,—then high inflammation is likely to result, which is almost cer- tain to end in suppuration. That this does not always occur is fully proved, by the occasional successful results of compound dislocations of such joints as the knee and shoulder, and even when suppuration ensues, there is ample proof that there may be a possibility of saving both limb and life, as exemplified in compound dislocations of the ankle. In a simple dislocation it should be remembered, that so long as the displaced end of the bone is allowed to remain in its unnatural situation, it acts in some degree as a foreign bod}-, and, therefore, the sooner it is replaced so much the better. But this is not the chief and only reason for an early interference. If inflammation has already set in, the patient suffers much more than he would do if reduction was set about at once; and, moreover, in consequence of the swollen condition of the soft parts, there must be greater difficulty in accomplishing the proceeding. There are few surgeons who would not at once attempt reduction, and I should scarcely here refer to the subject, were it not that I believe there are some who incline to delay. Doubtless, after the lapse of some time, and after the use of leeches and fomentations, or perhaps cold lotions, the inflammatory swelling which follows a dislocation will in a great measure subside, but assuredly each day which passes, with the joint in its distorted condition, only adds to the pain and difficulty after- wards. In all instances, then, unless there be some good reason to the contrary, I recommend an early attempt at reduction. If this be accomplished, one great cause of inflammation will be removed, and it seldom happens that there is any occasion for adopting means to sub- due that slight inflammatory action, which must, of necessity, result from an injury of this kind. The constitutional means which may be resorted to, to facilitate reduction, and the most distant period of time at which it should be considered advisable to attempt the proceeding, will be noticed in re- ference to the shoulder and hip, and proper occasions will be taken to point out how extension and counter-extension are to be applied.