THE HEAD AND NECK. 4GS instruments in different hands: he will probably find it most conve- nient to hold them as above directed, and cut with the hands twisted across, the left being under the right. I prefer such an instrument as that represented in the figure on the preceding page for these operations ; but a common sharp hook, single or double (p. 9), or a tenaculum may be used. Sometimes I employ a forceps with claw-points made longer than those referred to at p. 27, and slightly bent at the ends, so that whilst the one tonsil is grasped, the convexity of the blades is in the other side of the mouth, and the view is neither obstructed nor is the instrument in the way of that which is to be used for cutting. Numerous ingenious contrivances have been devised for removal of portions of the tonsils, (many of which may be seen in the shops of Mr. Simpson and Mr. Weiss,) but I give a decided preference to those above recommended. The bis- toury is, in my opinion, superior to scissors, although I occasionally use the latter ; the blades should be rounded at the points, slightly curved, and the whole instrument should be sufficiently long to reach the throat with ease. When a bistoury is used, its heel should be wrapped round with a few turns of surgeons’ lint, so that the lips may not be cut. Sometimes this instrument is carried through the swelling from above downwards, at others from below upwards, as may be done according to the taste or convenience of the operator. Scarifications are sometimes made in the palate or fauces in severe inflammation, but such manoeuvres require no special notice. Some- times abscesses require to be opened here in examples of acute cy- nanche. For such a proceeding I use a long, narrow, sharp-pointed bistoury, with its heel and blade enveloped in lint to within half an inch of the point, as this saves the necessity for having a lancet set in a sheath, which some have recommended for this purpose. At all times in cases of deafness the condition of the mucous mem- brane of the pharynx merits attention, for when there is much chronic thickening in this situation, the Eustachian tube will probably not per- form its functions with full effect. But besides attending to the throat in such cases, the external ear should be carefully examined. Here collections of wax, pellets of cotton which may have been unwittingly allowed to remain, insects, seed-pickles, pebbles, and such like, may obstruct the passage : chronic inflammation may cause thickening of the lining membrane : there may be granulations projecting from it in the form of polypi, or possibly acute inflammation and abscess may have ended in caries or necrosis of part of the neighbouring bones. The ordinary principles of surgery will serve to point out the routine of practice in most of these rases. Syringing frequently with tepid water will often be of great service, but sometimes it will be necessary to re- sort to the use of instruments to extract foreign substances, or remove excrescences. There may be some danger in attempting to separate diseased or dead bone here, and the surgeon should have a good idea of its limits before using any violence. On one occasion I extracted, with the common dissecting forceps, a cap of brass, such as is often put