148 DISSECTIONS. will be of advantage in doing so, to cut across the lesser pectoral muscle. If the arm be kept from the side of the body, which it should be in making the dissections recommended, the parts will now appear thus: the axillary artery will be seen at the upper part of the dissection, between the subclavius muscle and the upper margin of the serratus magnus, having the vein in front of it and a little lower. The vessels in this situation are as often termed subclavian as axillary. The large nerves will all be seen on the upper and outer side of the artery. Two inches further down, all these parts will appear in closer contact: the vein will be more completely in front of the artery; two large twigs of nerves, one from above, the other from below, will have joined in front of this vessel, to form the median nerve; and the whole will lie on the subscapular muscle, where it is attached to the lesser tuberosity of the humerus. The course of the subscapular artery on the axillary margin of the last-named muscle will also be noticed. If the neck has not yet been dissected, and if it is of consequence to be economical with the subject, the parts in this region should next be examined in the manner directed in the section of this work, on the head and neck: as for the further examination of the shoulder, the upper extremity had better be entirely separated from the body, by disarticulating the clavicle, or dividing it at its middle with a saw, and cutting through the subclavius muscle, the axillary vein, artery, and nerves, the serratus magnus, latissimus dorsi, and such other parts connected with the clavicle or scapula as remain to be divided. The shoulder being removed from the body, the deltoid muscle should be cut through at its attachments to the scapula and clavicle, and turned downwards, when the ends of the muscles connected with the head of the humerus will be observed; the large bursa beneath the acromion process should be opened; the course of the posterior circumflex artery, with its accompanying nerve, round the neck of the humerus towards the deltoid should be looked at; the supraspinatus, infraspinatus, teres minor, and subscapularis muscles should be dissect- ed, and then cut through about an inch from their attachments to the humerus: the capsular ligament should next be dissected by rais- ing the ends of these muscles; and lastly, by dividing this ligament and the long head of the biceps, which will be found within it, the humerus will be separated from the scapula, and the glenoid cavity exposed. In dissecting the suprascapular muscle, the nerve and artery of the same name will be observed on the upper margin of the bone, the one generally passing over, the other under, the little ligament which converts the notch on this part into a foramen. The ligaments of the scapula, and those between this bone and the clavicle, will next demand attention, and lastly those connecting the inner extremity of the latter with the sternum and first rib. In this description of the manner of conducting the examination of the upper extremity for surgical purposes, I have not deemed it ne- cessary to name each minute vessel or nerve, nor to describe their separate courses ; nor have I done so with the ligaments or processes