THE SUPERIOR EXTREMITY. 146 be of service to replace both tendons and muscles ; and whatever be the strength of its ligaments, the circumstance should always be borne in mind, that the actual strength of the articulation in the living body depends more on the surrounding textures than on the fibres connecting the ends of the bones. The elbow-joint may next be examined. With a little dissection on each side, the lateral ligaments will be discovered: on raising the brachialis anticus (which should be done from above downwards), a few fibres will be found on the anterior surface of the synovial capsule, and similar structures, though somewhat slighter, will be remarked on the posterior aspect of the joint, between this membrane and the triceps. The joint should now be laid open, by cutting across the textures in front, or, as will perhaps be of more service, by first re- moving the olecranon process with the cutting forceps, and then com- pleting the incisions with the scalpel. The connexion of the radius to the ulna above should next be examined ; when this is done, and the interosseal membrane also looked at, the anatomical examination, as high as it has gone, may be deemed tolerably complete for present purposes; and various points will be further elucidated when the in- juries and diseases of this portion of the extremity are taken into consideration. The surgical anatomy of the remaining part of the upper extremity may next be examined. The body should be placed with the back uppermost, having a large block under the chest so adjusted as to allow the shoulder about to be examined to hang down, and thus to put the muscles on the posterior surface of the trunk, connected with it, on the stretch. By carrying an incision from the occipital protube- rance along the mesial line, as low as the twelfth dorsal vertebra, then another from the spinous process of the seventh cervical, as far as the extremity of the acromion process of the scapula, and dissecting the skin and cellular texture upwards and downwards, the trapezius and part of the latissimus dorsi muscles will be exposed ; and by making an incision from the acromion down the outer part of the arm as low as the extremity of the deltoid, or to where the skin may have been already divided in the previous dissection of the extremity, the posterior surface of the latter-named muscle may be also fully displayed. The remaining muscles lying on the back of the neck and chest, which connect the extremity with the trunk, should, with the exception of the latissimus dorsi, be dissected and cut through, one after the other, and, after dividing the rhomboids and the levator anguli scapuhe, due notice should be taken of the size and position of the posterior scapu- lar artery. It will be found immediately under these muscles, about the size of a crow-quill, passing from above downwards along the pos- terior margin of the bone, and becoming smaller in its course as it gives off its branches. It will usually be found within half an inch of the margin of the scapula, but will vary according to the position of the bone, which, it will be observed, can be moved backwards and forwards with great facility.