THE INFERIOR EXTREMITY. 286 wood, cut in this shape, (fig. 15G,) forms the splint, which proved so efficient in the hands of Dupuytren: its length should be such as to Fig. 156. extend from the knee to four inches beyond the foot: its breadth about three inches,—thickness about half an inch. When properly laid along the inner or outer margin of the leg, it gives a sufficient support to the fragments; and, being placed opposite to the side on which the foot is thrown, the distortion can be remedied with a few turns of the bandage between the foot and the projecting end of the splint. A thick cushion is required between the leg and board, parti- cularly towards the ankle, both to fill up the natural hollow on either side of the limb here, as also by separating it from the foot, to give a better purchase over the distortion. The limb may either be kept straight, or it may be bent at the knee, as was particularly recom- mended by Pott. A surgeon may often find it convenient to use a splint of this kind, and the ample experience of Dupuytren sufficiently attests its uti- lity ; but it must be allowed that the fragments cannot be considered so securely placed as when the injury is treated on the machine first recommended. I have occasionally seen in using this board that it was difficult to keep the lower fragment and the foot in a pro- per position, and it has seemed to me that, either in the bent or extended position of the limb, there has been a disposition in the fragments to project forwards at the seat of fracture, over which it has been difficult to exercise any sufficient controul. Within the last ten years, many surgeons, more particularly among our continental neighbours, have advocated a method of putting up fractures of the leg, by means of bandages and starch, in such a man- ner as to obviate the necessity for any of the ordinary splints or other more cumbrous apparatus. The fragments being properly set, the limb is enveloped, from the toes to the knee, by many turns of a calico roller, which is wetted with a thick solution of starch: when the latter becomes dry, a firm case is thus formed around the leg, which fits it accurately on all gides, and, provided it be sufficiently thick, prevents any future displacement. The chief advantage claim- ed for the plan, I believe, is, that, instead of the patient being kept in bed during four, five, or six weeks, as in the ordinary method of treatment, he can be allowed to move about the apartment almost as soon as the starch is dry.