THE CHEST, ABDOMEN, AND PELVIS. oo2 be accomplished with the utmost facility; but there may be many difficulties to overcome, most of which demand particular notice here. In corpulent persons, with the pelvis naturally large, and the pros- tate much increased in size, the interior of the bladder is further from the orifice of the urethra than under ordinary circumstances: some- times, even when the prostate is in a natural condition, the neck of the bladder is higher up during great distention of the viscus, and in either of these cases a longer catheter is required than that in common use : it may be advantageous also to have the curve somewhat larger. Sometimes when the urethra is of its full calibre, the point of the instrument is apt to hitch on that part where it passes the triangular ligament; indeed, in ordinary cases, when it does not slip readily along, this is the seat of obstruction: the operator may probably be urging it onwards a little too high, or somewhat too low, and in either instance, if only a fold of the mucous lining be in the way, it will be sufficient to foil the attempt. The occurrence is more likely with a small-sized catheter than with one above the average diameter; and in instances of paralysis of the bladder, resulting from fever, injury of the spine or pelvis, and such like cases, where the urethra is known to be free from stricture and otherwise healthy, it is well to bear this in mind. At other times, when the prostate is not greatly increased in its entire bulk, the middle lobe may be of such a size as to project right in the course of the point of the instrument; and again, the most common and most troublesome of all obstacles is stricture in the urethra, more especially if previous futile attempts have been made, causing laceration, bleeding, and subsequent inflammation and infiltra- tion,—the latter being either the result of the inflammatory action, or possibly being combined with that of blood and urine. In elongation of the urethra, whether from enlarged prostate or retention, or in examples of paralysis with healthy urethra, there is seldom any great difficulty ; a little gentle movement of the instrument will generally suffice to put its point in the right way, although in the prostatic affection this is not always readily done. Here perhaps the point has to be elevated over the projecting middle lobe, or made to glide along by one side or the other. In the instance of stricture it is not reasonable to suppose that the full-sized instrument above recommended can be carried along the contracted passage, and there- fore one of smaller diameter must be selected. Catheters vary in the latter respect from that of an ordinary silver probe to about three lines, and such a size must be chosen as will pass the narrow course : the larger it is, the better, for the point of a small one is exceedingly apt to get out of the proper line, and thus for future attempts the diffi- culties are increased, by the formation of a false passage which has not penetrated into the bladder. When such an instrument is used, only the smallest imaginable force must be applied to carry it onwards; it should rather be insinuated than forced along, and should the latter be deemed necessary, an instrument of larger calibre should in ge- neral be selected.