INFLAMMATION. .54 Blood may be abstracted locally, by such means as have already been referred to; and if the part actually affected with inflammation is near or on the surface, I should, in general, prefer leeches, as the method by scarifications, either with or without the cupping-glasses, is usually attended with more pain, and may possibly leave greater marks than those resulting from the leech bites. Whatever be the means employed for local depletion, warmth is always of service in promoting the flow of blood : whether local bleed- ing has been resorted to or not, it is seldom that it does not produce a soothing effect on the patient’s feelings:—indeed, I believe that it has a specific advantage besides, in encouraging a more general diffusion of blood through all the vessels of the affected part, and also in those immediately around, — at the same time causing the exudation of serum on the surface, and thus, as it were, lessening the quantity of fluid in the seat of disease. Whether these explanations be cor- rect or not, I have no hesitation in recommending warmth as an ex- cellent mode of treating inflammation locally. It should be applied by means of fomentations, by dipping the parts into warm water, by keeping moist cloths over them, or by a poultice. Fomentations are usually applied with a sponge or bit of soft rag. Cloths (surgeons’ lint, linen rag, or soft flannel) are usually wrung out of hot water, and their efficacy is greatly enhanced by covering all over with oiled silk or Mackintosh cloth, which has the double effect of preventing evaporation, (thus preserving the warmth,) and keeping the bed- clothes dry. These means are often greatly to be preferred to the poultice, although the latter cannot always be dispensed with. In slight inflammation of a finger, for example, if I deemed warmth required, instead of using a poultice, I would wrap the part up in wet lint, and cover it with oiled silk. Moisture and heat are thus more effectually secured than by a poultice, which will soon get cold on the surface, and in a few hours become almost quite dry. On other parts of the body this plan, modified by circumstances, may be resorted to with every advantage, and I cannot speak in terms too laudatory of the “ warm-water dressing,” as this method is now usually called, which under the influence of many practical surgeons of the day, has in a great measure superseded the more troublesome, and more cum- bersome poultice. It is often customary to use decoctions of chamomile flowers, poppy- heads, solutions of acetate of lead, of opium, or other sedatives, as fomentations. Such adjuncts seem occasionally to allay pain and irri- tation, but in the majority of cases I believe that warmth and moisture constitute the chief virtues of fomentations. The same fluids have been used to moisten the materials of which poultices have been made, the latter being usually formed of bread, linseed powder, boiled carrot or turnip ; and sometimes they seem to enhance the value of the poultice. Besides the efficacy of warmth as an immediate application to an inflamed part, I believe that when used on the surface, even in deep-