70 EFFUSION ON SURFACES. be made at the same time, to permit a free discharge : thus, in phleg- monous erysipelas, when the matter is likely to be diffused exten- sively in the subcutaneous cellular texture, such practice is highly ad- vantageous, and there is greater probability of the intervening spaces adhering. Occasionally, when an abscess has arrived at the condition of sinus, it answers well to make a counter-opening, as it is techni- cally named, at some distant part from the original one, where the matter may escape more readily. If the abscess bursts sponta- neously, the aperture may not be in the most favourable position for a free discharge, and sometimes the surgeon may find, when he has used the knife, that he has not selected the most dependent position : in other instances the matter may burrow afterwards, and in all such cases a second opening, at a more fitting part of the cavity or sinus, may bring about a speedy cure. CHAPTER XIII. EFFUSIONS ON SURFACES. HECTIC. The preceding remarks refer only to effusions of pus in the tex- tures of the body. Where matter is secreted from surfaces, the plan of treatment is usually less difficult to decide upon, and less trouble- some in its application. In such discharges from the vagina, for ex- ample, whether the result of gonorrhoea or otherwise, astringent lotions may probably suffice to check the suppurative action. If there is much active inflammation present, suppuration is often a relief, and therefore at first, instead of checking it, the secretion ought rather to be encouraged by warmth, applied in some of the modes al- ready described; but when the disease has assumed a chronic condi- tion, astringents may be used with propriety; and here, too, there may be need of some alteration in the constitutional treatment. There is often much benefit in a change of air and of diet, which should be generous ; and tonics, more especially iron, may be additionally ser- viceable. In some of the mucous membranes, it is occasionally the custom to use strong astringent applications at the commencement of inflammation, before suppuration has actually occurred, by way of arresting all disease at once: in suppurative ophthalmia, for example, a solution of nitrate of silver, of the strength of ten or twenty grains to the ounce of water, has been used, and with the desired effect too ; but the plan is by no means in general use : similar practice is some- times tried with good effect in the early stages of gonorrhoea in the male; but the danger of bringing on swelled testicle by thus suddenly changing the actions in the urethra, usually deters the practitioner from resorting to it.