405 TRACHEOTOMY. ingly exhausted, he would be sure to expel it again by the wound, or by the upper part of the tube. Such a circumstance should induce the surgeon to examine the external wound, when if the bleeding vessel is of any considerable magnitude he will discover it at once, and if it is an artery a ligature can be applied, or if a vein pressure may suffice. But even in the case of severe hemorrhage the blood is much more likely to flow through the external wound than into the trachea, and in illustration of this, I may refer to a case related by Mr. Porter, who, after tracheotomy had been performed by another party, was called in hurriedly as the patient was stated to be bleeding to death. He found him sitting on a chair, blood profusely flowing from the wound, and a coagulum on the floor at his feet “ as large as a liver,” to use Mr. Porter’s own words, yet even in this case there does not seem to have been any bleeding internally, and that on the surface was speedily arrested by pressure. I have recommended a knife wherewith to make the opening, but some have preferred a trochar, and one of a particular shape has ac- tually been made for the purpose. It requires a little dexterous man- agement to introduce even the sharp point of a scalpel in some of these cases, and I should consider it much more troublesome to cause the clumsy point of the other instrument to pass with facility. The rings of the trachea, and also the fibrous intervening membrane, are so dense that in the young subject they will sink before the point, until the opposite sides almost meet, and even with the scalpel a kind of plunge, or jerk as I have previously called it, is necessary at this stage of the operation. If the opening has been made to allow the patient to breathe more freely, it will be necessary to make some provision to keep it patent. Some por- tions of its margins may be cut away with this object, and such a proceeding has been frequently done ; but in general it will be best to introduce a silver tube of the shape here represented (fig. 197), and to retain it by tapes attached to the rings made sufficiently long to join at the back of the neck. Such an instrument is useful for the purpose referred to, and may be serviceable too by its pressure in arresting bleeding,—indeed, in cases of venous hemorrhage it may be of great advantage, whether by itself or partly surrounded by lint. I have seen some trouble in passing this tube, both in Laryngotomy and Tracheotomy, owing to the elasticity of the cricoid cartilage or the rings of the trachea : the edges, therefore, require to be held asunder by hooks or forceps until the Fig. 197.