537 OPERATIONS ON THE SCROTUM. testicle may be scratched in such a manner as to induce inflammation on the surface, while at the same time vent is given to the fluid. A fine trochar and canula may also be used, the point of either being caused tc graze the testicle. But the plan most likely to supersede all others, is that which has lately been brought under the notice of the profes- sion in this country, by my friend, Mr. Martin, of Grosvenor Street, formerly surgeon to the Native Hospital in Calcutta. Instead of throwing in several ounces of port wine, this gentleman, by means of an ordinary urethra syringe, passes through a narrow canula, which has already been used in tapping, a small quantity of solution of iodine, which he allows to remain in the cavity—withdrawing the canula as soon as it has been introduced. The requisite amount of inflammation is thereby produced; and, as Mr. Martin has pointedly stated, without any risk having been incurred of the port wine being infiltrated in the cellular tissue of the scrotum—an event which, in the ordinary operation, is probably not so rare as some suppose. I have myself known four instances of this unhappy mistake, and have little doubt that others of greater experience must have seen many more. Velpeau has resorted to a similar practice; but the amount of experi- ence acquired by Mr. Martin among the natives of the East, who seem peculiarly liable to this disease, puts all that can be stated by a European practitioner into a small compass ; for whilst a surgeon, possessing even tolerable opportunities here, can speak only of his dozens of cases, or hundreds at most, Mr. Martin can adduce thousands! I have lately learnt from others who have practised in India, that the method has answered equally well in their trials of it, and now it remains to be seen whether it will prove beneficial in equal proportion in other parts of the world. The above plans modified by circumstances will be also applicable to that form of hydrocele which is occasionally seen in the spermatic cord. Hematocele and Cirsocele require no particular notice here, unless it be that in the latter affection the method of obliterating the veins with needles, as described at p. 319, might possibly be of service in those instances where active interference is deemed requisite. The introduction of threads among the veins, of heated wires, the applica- tion of pressure by means of forceps, as recommended by Breschet, may each be resorted to without much danger. But the instances are rare wherein a judicious surgeon would interfere, for cold bathing night and morning, a suspensory bandage, refraining from violent ex- ertions, with due attention to the bowels, usually constitute the routine of such practice as may be necessary in these cases. In one instance, where the patient urged me to perform castration, I used a heated awl instead, thrust it into the varicose plexus, and thus produced such a degree of inflammation as to obliterate the veins, and occasion a complete cure, while the testicle remained entire. The needle and thread, however, I should infinitely prefer, as a safer, and equally efficacious means of cure. Occasionally large sarcomatus tumours of the scrotum (sarcocele.