497 DISSECTION OF THE INGUINAL CANAL. Some points of surgical anatomy will be particularly referred to in future pages ; meanwhile, the attention may be at once directed to the inguinal and crural canals. The parts of inguinal hernia may first be dissected, and, if possible, a male subject should be selected for the purpose. A semilunar inci- sion, its convexity being upwards, should be made from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium to the symphysis pubis, and the skin should be dissected downwards a little below the line of Pou- part’s ligament. When the skin only is raised, a layer of fat and cellular membrane will be observed, and midway between the crest of the ilium a small vein will be noticed passing from above downwards. If the subject be well injected, an artery will be seen in the same situation. These are the superficial epigastric vessels. If an incision is made from near the symphysis through the skin of the scrotum (or labium), a portion of the layer of subcutaneous cellular texture already displayed will be seen extending in this direction, destitute, however, of fat, which is often conspicuous above the scrotum and Poupart’s ligament. The membrane now exposed is termed the superficial fascia, and were the skin dissected off in all directions to a much greater extent it might be traced everywhere beneath it. It is chiefly of im- portance in this situation, however, as it is one of the coverings of the hernial sac. The membrane should be cut through in the line of the first incision, and turned downwards, so as to display the lower part of the tendon of the external oblique muscle; it will be found but loosely attached to this tendon, and may therefore be separated with a few strokes of the knife. Towards the pubes the finger should be pushed under the membrane into the scrotum, and if the portion thus elevated be divided, the spermatic cord will be found beneath. The finger should now be passed under the cord, which should then be drawn downwards, so as to pat the cellular texture above on the stretch. This texture should then be divided by cutting cautiously round the cord, close upon the tendon of the external oblique, when the opening in this tendon, with the cord passing through it, will be observed. The membrane which has been thus divided is generally named the intercolumnar fascia. The margins of the opening should be made more distinct by detaching this texture, which will be found connected more or less firmly with the circumference of the aperture. The opening may now be observed to be formed by the splitting of the fibres of the tendon of the external oblique ; one part being attached to the tuberosity of the pubes, the other to the symphysis. The separation generally occurs between two and three inches upwards and outwards from the pubes ; but at the commencement the fibres are kept together by a transverse layer, which passes from the upper extremity of Poupart’s ligament towards the mesial line, where it spreads out and is lost on the surface of the tendon. The fibres of this layer have a slight convexity downwards, are tolerably distinct above, but towards the pubes differ little from common cellular texture ; and as they become weak the opening in the tendon of the external 2 K