134 AMPUTATION. surfaces are finally adjusted ; and this is done with the intention of making sure that all bleeding has actually ceased, and also under the conviction, that union is not retarded by keeping the surfaces so long from each other. If the edges of such a wound are brought together immediately after the operation, and probably whilst the patient is faint from the shock, there is a chance of some vessel beginning to bleed after he has got warm in bed ; and on this account it may be necessary to undo all the dressings. In general, however, if proper care be taken to apply a sufficient number of ligatures at the time of the operation, there will be no further trouble ; and I do not hesitate to recommend that, as a common rule, the wound of an amputation should be dressed whilst the patient is on the operating table. I have tried both ways, and have always remarked the addi- tional distress which any interference with the wound, four, six, or eight hours afterwards, has occasioned. In a circular operation, when the cut surfaces are laid together, the line of junction may be transverse, vertical, or oblique, at the will or taste of the surgeon. I know of no rule which should regulate this circumstance, for I hold it absurd to make a deliberate provision for the after-flow of matter ; and, indeed, a stump may be in so many dif- ferent positions during the progress of treatment, that what may at one time be the most dependent part, may be the reverse in the course of a few minutes, hours, or days. In the flap operation, the line of junction can' only be as the flaps are formed. In either proceeding, the ends of the ligatures should be brought out at the points nearest the vessels on which they are placed : if there be no great distance between two or three of them, they may be brought out at the same point; but I consider it improper to cause a thread to traverse a large extent of wound. It is often the custom to cast a knot on the liga- ture cn the main artery, so that it nun,- be known when separation takes place. The dressing of a stump must be conducted on the principles incul- cated in previous pages; but I hope it will not be deemed supereroga- tory if I here give an outline of the course which I would in general recommend. Supposing that immediate union is desired, the main features of treatment and dressing should be to keep the surfaces quiet and in accurate apposition. The latter object I think is best attained by means of stitches, straps, and bandages ; the former by proper position of the stump, and such other means, local and constitutional, as may be thought essential to allay irritation. But, to be more precise, I shall instance an example of a stump in the thigh. Here, after the requisite number of ligatures have been applied, the wound must be carefully cleansed with the sponge, and, the surfaces being placed in apposition, six, eight, or ten stitches should be used to keep them together: four, six, or eight strips of adhesive plaster, each about eight inches long, should then be applied in the intervals between the sutures; then a narrow bit of lint, spread with spermaceti ointment, should be laid along the whole length of