FALSE JOINTS. 105 believe it may answer equally well when in the proximity, for the desired inflammation may be produced in this way with as much certainty, perhaps, and often with greater safety, than when the thread is carried through the fissure. In the leg or fore-arm, it may not be very easy to avoid important vessels or nerves. The thread must be passed with a needle of a size proportioned to the thickness of the limb, and if the common seton needle be used, its sharp sides may possibly cut what should be avoided. I have seen the radial artery wounded in this way. If a probe is preferred, as I have already recommended for passing an ordinary issue seton, the bistoury, which must be in requisition in such a proceeding, may do harm. I have seen the surgeon, unable, or unwilling, from judicious caution, to pass a needle or probe between the disunited fragments of the tibia, leave the latter instrument sticking in the fissure, and the proceeding was attended with all the benefit that could have been expected from the cord, had it been carried between the fragments. I would only cut down to the fragments as a last resource, and, on doing so, be regulated by circumstances, whether I should merely scrape the exposed surfaces, or actually cut portions of them away with the saw. In the leg or fore-arm, I should resort to the latter plan with great reluctance, more especially if only one bone was at fault. A case will be afterwards related, where, in consequence of a portion of the tibia having been removed at the period of reducing a compound fracture, no new bone was produced, and, the fibula afterwards proving insufficient to support the weight of the patient’s body, amputation was ultimately performed. The best part for resection is in the arm, and it would only be the most urgent necessity that would make me attempt such an operation in the thigh. There is a preparation in the museum at King’s College, exhibiting an instance where such a proceeding might have been of the most essential service: a loose portion of bone is seen lying crosswise between the two chief frag- ments, so as to keep them from coming into contact. Here if an incision had been made, the fragment might have been very readily removed, and, doubtless, with a successful result. It must be kept in view, that when resection is performed, the frac- ture is converted into a compound one, and the hazard is, therefore, considerable, more particularly in the thigh, where this species of frac- ture is so very dangerous. In false joints, as in most other abnormal conditions, resulting from injury or disease, with which the surgeon has to do, it is well to ascertain in how far constitutional remedies may be of service. A case, remarkably illustrative of this observation, once occurred to me in The Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh. A man, about fifty years of age, came under my care for a simple transverse fracture in the middle of the thigh, and, after the lapse of three weeks, when all swelling from effused blood had gone off, and the muscles and other soft parts had diminished considerably in size, the ends of the fragments could be felt rubbing against each other, as if the surfaces had already