422 CHAPTER V. DISLOCATIONS. FRACTURES. OPERATIONS ON THE SCALP AND ON CRANIUM. Dislocations in this region are few and of rare occurrence. The cervical vertebrae are occasionally displaced, either as the result of accident or disease. When the former happens, it is customary to suppose that the spinal marrow is so affected that immediate death is the result, especially if the injury is above the origin of the phrenic nerve. I have not myself seen any case of this kind, but I believe that there are few in the profession who doubt the truth of the current doctrine : it has been asserted, however, that such displacements may be treated like luxations in the extremities—that is, by extension and counter extension, and cases of the kind have been recorded in modern journals. The practice which has been proposed in such instances is not so novel as some people imagine. Hei'ster states that “ what is vulgarly called a broken neck is generally no more than a luxation, though sometimes the vertebrae are fractured. If life should remain after such a luxation, which very rarely happens, the patient’s head is commonly distorted, with his chin close down to his breast, so that he can neither swallow anything, nor speak, nor even move any part that is below his neck ; therefore, if speedy assistance be not had, death ensues from the compressure or hurt of the medulla.” “ But to repulse this unwelcome messenger, the patient is to be immediately laid flat upon the ground or floor; then the surgeon kneeling down with his knees against the patient’s shoulders, is to bring them together so as to contain the patient’s neck between them : this done, he quickly lays hold of the patient’s head with both his hands, and strongly pulling or extending it, he gently moves it from one side to the other, till he finds, by a noise, the natural position of the neck, and the remission of the symptoms, that the dislocation is properly reduced.” That the neck may be straightened in this way I believe, but I should imagine that the injury to the spinal marrow would be such that this “ unwelcome visitor” would keep his place. Hei'ster is cer- tainly a very different authority on professional matters than Rabelais, yet bv the above account one is forcibly reminded of the exploit of Panurge in replacing the severed head of his friend Episthemon. In the upper part of the neck, where authentic and accredited cases have been observed by professional men, immediate death has ensued in instances of displacement. Thus, a person’s head has suddenly dropped forward and life has become extinct instantaneously : in dis- sections of such cases, it has been found that the atlas and the head have been permitted to fall, in consequence of the rupture of the