CHEST, ABDOMEN, AND PELVIS. 504 itself will be observed to be in a manner bound to the spine by the lumbar arteries which it gives off. The vessels may then be cut away, and the psoas magnus (and parvus if it be present) should next be dissected from the spine, care being taken to notice the slip which passes upwards behind the dia- phragm. In removing the middle portion of this muscle the fascia iliaca must be divided, and the strength of this membrane should now be noticed where it is connected with the inner lip of the crest of the ilium. This and the iliacus muscle may then be removed, and the attention may next be devoted to the pelvis. If the subject is entire, the feet and ankles should be bound toge- ther, as for lithotomy (described in an after page) ; and, the subject being a male, a staff should be passed along the urethra into the bladder, which should then be held at right angles to the pubes by an assistant, who can scarcely be dispensed with on the occasion. Before commencing the dissection, the tuberosity of each ischium, and the distance between the two, should be carefully noted. The ascending rami should be traced with the finger, which can scarcely be made too familiar with these parts: its point should also be introduced within the anus, so as to accustom it to feel the staff in the mem- branous portion of the urethra, the prostate, and the bladder above and behind. The assistant should hold up the scrotum, and the dissector should then make an incision from immediately behind the testes, along the raphe of the perineum to within half an inch of the anterior margin of the anus; from this the knife should encircle the anus, and from the posterior part of this incision a cut should be made as far back as the coccyx. The blade should then be carried from the posterior extremity of the wound first made, an inch and a half outwards, to each thigh, when the different flaps thus marked out can be raised. The skm only should be taken off: around the anus it will be found re- markably thin, and here the sphincter muscle will be displayed. To cause the latter to become prominent, it is usually the custom to distend the lower end of the rectum with hair; but the nearer the parts are allowed to remain to their natural condition the better. If the cellular substance is now freely removed behind, the anterior (lower) margin of the gluteus maximus may be observed ; but as the principal features of the dissection lie in front, the chief attention may be given in this direction. Here a dense layer of cellular tissue (superficial fascia) will be noticed between the bones, which may be traced backwards until it is lost in the cellular and fatty substance which occupies the space between the anus and the tuberosities, and forwards into the cellular tissue (dartos) of the scrotum. This fascia should be divided by incisions similar in course to those made in the skin in front of the anus, and on being raised the accelerator and erector muscles will be displayed, and also (if it be present) the trans- versus. The triangular space between these should be examined ; and here as the parts are, or probably while removing the fascia, the su-