THE HEAD AND NECK. 458 ascertained by the finger, as also from the appearance of what had been taken away, that the disease was not one to be treated in this manner, the proceedings were immediately given up. Recently I saw a case of large polypus in the nostrils, under the care ol Dr. Smith, at Fort Pitt Hospital. The tumour had been of several years’ growth, and projected prominently on the face on each side of the nose. In each nostril a large mass could be seen, and a probe could be passed with ease below and on both the outer sides; but as doubts were entertained regarding the attachments in the middle and above, it was not considered advisable to resort to any operation. Some weeks after the patient died ; and my former pupil and assistant, Staff-surgeon Dr. George Williamson, obliged me with an account of the dissection:—“ The tumour extended from the ethmoid bone to the condyles of the occipital, and was also attached to both sides of the septum. Two large pendulous bodies hung down into the pharynx. The turbinated bones were absorbed, but the mucous membrane which contains them was entire. There was no attachment to the outer walls of the nasal cavity. There was a large abscess in the- left anterior lobe of the brain, with an opening leading from it into the nose.” Plugging the nostrils for epistaxis is often a more troublesome pro- cess than might be imagined. The student may practise this on the dead body and should not neglect to do so. On the living or dead it may be done in this way : A piece of sponge or rolled lint, some- thing larger than the end of the thumb, having a bit of twine or cord attached to its centre, with the two ends, eight or ten inches long, hanging free, should first be provided ; then the end of a common silver probe armed with a long portion of ligature thread should be pushed along the floor of the nostril until it is seen in the pharynx : the thread should then be seized with forceps and drawn forwards through the mouth, while the probe is withdrawn from the nose : this thread should then be attached to the two ends of the cord around the plug, and these should next be taken along the mouth behind the palate and thence through the nostril until the plug to which they are attached impedes their further progress, by being arrested in the poste- rior aperture: now the ends hanging from the anterior opening should be separated : a plug similar to that already used should be laid be- tween them, and then a noose should be made to keep it close upon the aperture, and a knot being secured the operation is finished. Some- times stuffing the nostril in front will obviate the necessity for the pos- terior plug ; but when the latter is deemed necessary it is always proper to apply one in front likewise. There is no additional pain: it acts as a kind of fixed point towards which the posterior one can be drawn, and, moreover, closes the nostril as effectually in front as the other does behind. Both nostrils may be plugged if required in the same manner, and, on the second or third day after, the pads may be removed. Sometimes it will be difficult to dislodge the posterior one,