IX PREFACE. some might desire. While the author cannot but regret the omissions, he trusts that, in some degree, they will be compen- sated for in other respects, and that few of his readers will be without that admirable emporium of surgical lore, “ Cooper’s Surgical Dictionary,” or the “ Cyclopaedia of Practical Surgery,” as far as it has gone, in which they will find all that may be desired on such topics. The present work has not been produced to compete with any already before the profession,—the arrangement, the man- ner in which the subjects have been treated, and the illustra- tions, are all different from any of the kind in the English lan- guage. It is not intended to be placed in comparison with the elementary systems of Mr. Samuel Cooper, Mr. John Burns, Mr. Liston, Mr. Syme, Mr. Lizars, and that excellent epitome by Mr. Druitt. It may with more propriety be likened to the “ Operative Surgery” of Sir Charles Bell and that of Mr. Ave- rill—both excellent in their day, or the more modern produc- tions of Mr. Hargrave, and the “ Practical Surgery” of Mr. Liston, which are so well known, and so justly appreciated, that no praise of the author of the following pages can possibly add to the estimation in which they are held. There are sub- jects treated of in this volume, however, which none of these gentlemen have noticed, and the author is sufficiently sanguine to entertain the idea, that his work may, in some degree, assume that relative position in British Surgery, which the classical volumes of Velpeau and Malgaigne occupy on the Continent. With many imperfections of which he is himself conscious, and doubtless many more which he has overlooked, the author ventures to hope that the good, if any, may he put against the bad, and that the result will be, that he has contributed in some measure to the advancement of a profession to which he has been devotedly attached for nearly twenty years. The author feels assured that the illustrations will in every respect sustain the high character which the Messrs. Bagg have already secured for their beautiful and useful art, and lie can-