333 INCISIONS. EXCISIONS. have come under my notice, I have seldom found that any other bone than that which supports the great toe has been affected. Within these few months I have operated on two cases of this description where the swelling was as conspicuous as is shown in the cut, and in both the internal cuneiform and the metatarsal bone of the second toe were sound. Where, then, there is evidence of the disease being limited to one bone, the rest of the foot may be saved by the resec- tion of the affected part; but the toe should be removed at the same time. I have already (p. 221) strongly advocated the practice of saving the two phalanges of the thumb, if disease in this part of the hand be limited to the metacarpal bone : here the remainder of the organ may be of much service in future; but in the foot, more espe- cially in the great toe, the two phalanges would be of none whatever; I should, therefore, always be inclined to amputate, instead of per- forming excision in such examples. If two or more of the metatarsal bones be irrecoverably diseased, and if, in addition, in removing them with the corresponding toes, it is also necessary to take away one or more of the tarsal bones, or even portions of them, the propriety of saving the other metatarsal bones may be very doubtful, as the narrow and slender member thus left will prove but an inadequate support to the weight of the body. In such a case I have known the foot to become gradually bent up, so as to resem- ble the talipes varus, and the patient, from the inconvenience thereby occasioned, and there being no hope of permanent improvement from submitting to treatment similar to that pursued in club-foot, was glad to submit to amputation above the ankle. Some further remarks on these longitudinal amputations, as they have been termed, will be found at p. 343 ; meantime I shall pursue the subject of excisions. In any portion of the tarsus in front of the ankle, there is seldom a favourable opportunity given of performing excision : I have frequently attempted to save the foot by laying open sinuses, and cutting away such portions of carious bone as my fingers and instruments could be placed upon, but cannot boast of the success of these proceedings, having generally foimd that the wounds gradually resumed their ori- ginal condition as sinuses, and on amputation it has been found, in such cases, that the whole of the caries has either not been removed, or that this disease has subsequently been re-established; and, moreover, I have invariably found the synovial membrane of most of the articula- tions in the vicinity so affected, as, whilst it justified the ultimate resource of amputation, showed at the same time the futility of enter- taining any sanguine hopes of success from the practice first pursued. Notwithstanding these remarks, I should still deem it right, in some instances, to give this practice a trial before resorting to amputation. When the os calcis is the seat of incurable caries much may be done to save the foot by excisions. If the disease is in or near the articulations with the astragalus or cuboid bone, it is to be feared that the results will differ little from those above referred to; but if towards