170 THE SUPERIOR EXTREMITY. In some shoulders I hare found the tendon partially torn and elongated, lying either in the natural groove, or in a new one formed by its fric- tion : in others I have observed the tendon tom across about an inch from its upper extremity, which floated free within the capsule, whilst the other end was adherent to the groove between the tuberosities. In some of these, old unreduced dislocations existed; in others, every mark bore evidence that this injury had at one time occurred. There is now in my collection, in the museum of King’s College, a preparation strongly corroborative of the above observations. On a subject, I noticed that one shoulder was more prominent than the other ; and in the progress of the dissection I found the head of the humerus lying immediately under the deltoid muscle, in contact with the acromion, and surrounded by a very thin capsule of cellular texture. On rais- ing the head of the bone, I ascertained that the long tendon of the biceps was tom, the under end being adherent in its natural groove, and that, in addition, a dislocation of the head of the humerus (for- wards in all probability) had been in a manner reduced ; but, instead of passing again into the capsule, had been thrust between this texture and the deltoid muscle. Only a small portion of the glenoid cavity was visible at its lowermost point, the greater part being covered by the flattened capsule. Doubtless, in this case, the original opening in the ligament had been only sufficient to let the head of the bone escape, and not free enough to permit of proper reduction. Such an occurrence I believe to be exceedingly rare, almost all evidence going to prove that the capsular ligament is in general so extensively tom open, that the head of the bone cannot possibly be obstructed by it in its backward course: yet the preparation confirms the observation of Delpech, who, though he suspected such an occurrence, had himself met with no anatomical proof of the fact. I have seen in practice several examples of supposed rapture of the tendon of the biceps, attended with the usual symptoms of severe sprains of the shoulder-joint; but I cannot say that I was ever con- vinced of the reality of the injury. The knowledge that such a rup- ture may occur, however, accompanied or not with luxation of the bone; that the entire tendon may leave its groove ; that the capsular ligament may lie behind the bone, after reduction has been sup- posed to be completed, must be of considerable practical consequence, as the surgeon may thereby explain the cause of certain conditions of the shoulder resulting from injuries of this most important articulation, whether the latter have been palpable or obscure in character. I have already stated (p. 162), that the circumflex nerve, as it passes behind the neck of the humerus, has been found both stretched and tom in different cases, when the head of the bone has been driven deep into the axilla; and these facts sufficiently account for the loss of power, and decay in bulk, of the deltoid. In some instances, it is easy to understand that the nerve may regain its functions after being merely overstretched ; whilst in others, the same event may happen, but more slowly, after union of the divided parts,—a fortunate occur-