SUTURES. 32 ply a few turns of a roller, which gives a more uniform support to the whole parts, and thus prevents any dragging on the stitches, from a tendency of the edges of the wound to fall asunder. In a large wound, — a stump, for example, — the roller can seldom he dispensed with. Some object to stitches in the dressing of wounds, on the ground of the additional pain and irritation they occasion; but I am firmly convinced, from considerable experience, that the pain is am- ply compensated for, by the security they give, and the irritation seems to me considerably less than that caused by the farrago of straps and bandages often employed instead. During my connexion with The Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh, as pupil and surgeon, I have had most ample experience of stitches, as they were invariably used by the surgeons of that institution. I cannot remember a single instance where they seemed to have been productive of harm; on the contrary, I often observed their remarkable efficacy. If they are employed in improper cases, or not removed at a proper period, then they may do harm; but the injury in such cases ought to be attributed to the want of surgical skill which has led to their use, and not to the means themselves. Thus, some- times a surgeon foolishly endeavours to drag the edges of a wound together by means of stitches, when the gap is really so great, and the surrounding parts are so unyielding, that they cannot be approxi- mated without much force, which produces great pain, and, moreover, is certain to bring on speedy ulceration in the site of each thread; .also, if the stitches are allowed to remain too long they may do harm by causing ulceration, even in instances when there is no strain upon them. Occasionally, when the threads seem to produce little or no irritation, they should not be meddled with for the first three or four days, but it is doubtful if they are of much sendee after the first eight-and-forty hours; they are generally, therefore, removed on the second day from their introduction, but there need be no fixed rule for the practice, as the surgeon should allow himself to be guided by circumstances, and use his own discretion as to the proper period. When they are to be removed, the knot should be seized with the dissecting forceps, gently turned aside, and the point of one blade of the surgical scissors insinuated under the thread, which should then be divided, and withdrawn through one of the apertures. In many instances a bandage is not at all necessary when stitches have been applied, and wherever it can be dispensed with, it will be better to do so ; as, in my opinion, the dressing on a wound intended to heal by immediate union, cannot be too light and simple. A small bit of lint covered with some simple ointment may be laid along the wound over the stitches; but even this may, in general, be dispensed with.