120 TUMOURS. character in its early stages, seems to gain additional advocates in the present day. Dr. William Budd, of Bristol, has ably endeavoured to prove this in a paper which was read before the British Medical Association, and afterwards published in the Lancet for May 1842. Surgeons (even some of those inclined to deem it hereditary, and therefore constitutional) may be said always to have acted on such an opinion, and, as soon as the real character of the disease has been recognised, have resorted to an operation for its removal, under the impression, that if in reality local and excised at an early period, there is less chance of the system being contaminated, or, in other words, a similar disease showing itself in another and probably a dis- tant part of the body. It is often an important and difficult question to determine when tumours are malignant or the reverse; and the most experienced cannot always do so on the living subject. When the tumour is removed there is less difficulty, for there are few who cannot recognise the dif- ferences between the two kinds. The scirrhous, medullary, and me- lanotic growths can be detected at a glance : the fatty and encysted as readily, and the distinctions between them and those first named can, with equal facility, be made out. There are certain tumours, however, especially some of those in the bones, whose particular cha- racters as to malignancy, or otherwise, cannot so easily be appreciated, even when removed from the body, and often in such cases the most accomplished pathologist must be content to watch the issue. If there is no return of the growth, he concludes that in all probability the disease has not been malignant, and vice versa. The symptoms do not always indicate the characters now under consideration. For instance, pain is not a test of malignancy; for the most painful of all, perhaps, is the painful subcutaneous tubercle, which, however, is not malignant; whilst, on the other hand, medul- lary sarcoma, one of the most malignant of all growths, is not charac- terised by remarkable pain. The peculiar prickling lancinating pain of scirrhus is often a good test of the disease; but frequently such tumours are met with, in which this symptom is by no means con- spicuous. Rapid growth is probably a more certain test of malig- nancy ; but many exceptions to this may be met with also. I am most inclined to take as good criteria, the apparent effect which tumours have upon the constitution, and the extent of their connexions with the neighbouring parts. If a patient, after a growth has existed for some time, gradually loses flesh, becomes pale and languid, has constant uneasiness (if not pain) in and around the part, I consider these good grounds for suspicion that the affection is malignant; and if, in addition, the local disease has no distinct limits, (in other words, if the exact line of separation between the sound and affected parts cannot be made out,) if the tumour be in a manner fixed, if the skin over it does not appear healthy, however much it may be stretched, and does not glide over the swelling, and if the latter does not move readily on the subjacent parts, — if,