393 LIGATURE OF ARTERIES. tion was done in 1818, Graefc’s in 1822 : the next was accomplished by Mr. Norman of Bath, in 1824, and, singularly enough, there are few British practitioners aware of the fact, although that gentleman has long been distinguished as an ornament to the surgery of this country. Dupuytren alludes to an instance which occurred at Paris some years back. In 1837 I assisted my friend Mr. Lizars in such a proceeding (the case was published in The Lancet of the same year), and another example by M. Hutin is related in the same Journal for 14th May 1842. In the latter instance the operation was performed for hermorrhage from the axilla, which was not effectually restrained by deligation of the subclavian outside of the scaleni: all the others were done for aneurism in the vessel last named. The results of all these operations have been so unfortunate and discouraging as to induce any reasonable surgeon to hesitate about repeating such a proceeding. Yet it is difficult to decide on such a question without having a specific case in view. It may fairly be doubted if ligature of the hmominata will ever succeed ; nevertheless, it may be said that the most successful instance of the kind was one where the vessel was not tied at all. Mr. Porter (of Dublin) will, I hope, excuse the liberty which a Scotchman thus takes in referring to his most interesting case. The artery was cut down upon by that gentleman, but was found in such a condition that he did not deem it advisable to place a ligature upon it. The wound was therefore closed, when, strange to say, ere long all pulsation in the aneurism ceased, as also in the innominata, and ultimately the cure was com- plete. It was supposed by Dupuytren, and the opinion has since been ex- tensively entertained, that in these operations, as well as in others at the root of the neck implicating one or more of the minor veins, the ingress of air into their canals has occasionally been the cause of sudden death. Dr. Rose Cormack, who has ably inquired into this interesting subject, has, however, expressed his opinion that the alarm on this score is greater than the occasion justifies. No surgeon would willingly keep the orifice in a wounded vein open, and as Dr. Cormack has shown, a few globules which may accidentally be admitted cannot do that harm which some have imagined. Attention may now be given to ligature of the common carotid. The operation may be required for many different reasons, such as hermorrhage from wounds or ulcers, vascular tumours about the head, face, or neck, examples of which will be referred to afterwards, and espe- cially for aneurism in the main trunk or some of its large branches. It has been performed in cases of epilepsy and for headache, and some enthusiastic dissecting-room operators have even proposed that it (or the internal carotid) should be tied in apoplexy ! Both carotids have been obstructed by ligature on the same individual. Mott tied both simultaneously, but the patient died within twenty-four hours. The result has, however, been more fortunate where a lapse of time has