THE HEAD AND NECK. 474 of the bone, the proceeding may be accomplished thus: After the first incisions have been made as above directed, the flaps should be dis- sected from off the inferior margin, and then a notch with the saw should be made in a perpendicular direction on the anterior surface of the bone: next the straight-cutting forceps should be applied,—one blade within the inner table, the other in the groove,—and the bone be divided: then the soft parts within —- the digastric, part of the mylo-hyoid, the genio-hyoid, genio-hyo-glossus on each side, and mu- cous membrane—being cut across, the separation will be effected, and the wound may be dressed as already described, or as circumstances may indicate. To make room for the blade of the forceps being applied within, it may be well to run the knife up at that part so as to clear a space; but, unless the forceps be large and coarse, this step need not always be attended to. The bleeding, probably, will not be at all trou- blesome : possibly each labial artery may require a ligature ; but the twisted suture, which should always be used at this part of the wound, will usually compress them. Instead of dividing the bone as above recommended, a chain-saw has been used for the purpose by some operators. The instrument is de- lineated in Dr. Jeffrey's work on the excision of carious joints; but, notwithstanding the success with which it has been used by such a high authority as Mr. Cusack, I give a decided preference to a small dove-tail saw, (p. 10,) or to such a one as is here represented (fig. 215). Fig. 215. A similar instrument has been advantageously used by Dr. W arren in many of his operations ; and, to one accustomed to cut with such tools, there is no difficulty in notching the bone in the manner directed. The handle is about three inches and a half long, the blade the same, and may be a quarter, a half, or a whole inch in depth. A back is re- quired, as the plate is very thin, on purpose to permit the teeth being twisted outwards as in a properly-set saw. It has been remarked, that when the attachments of the tongue to the chin have been divided, the organ has been suddenly drawn back so as to endanger suffocation: the point should therefore be kept steady by an assistant, who can use his fingers, forceps, or hooks, as may be required; or, what answers best of all, a thread should be passed through the apex, and a loop being cast, the part can thus be kept in a proper position. This appears an additional severity; but it is a