FRACTURES OF THE PATELLA. ‘291 for replacing the fragments at the earliest possible date, instead of waiting until the inflammation and swelling have subsided; but in fractures of the patella, as the chief resistance to approximation seems to arise from the presence of fluid in the joint, 1 prefer waiting until it is removed. There are some instances where the disturbance within is so little, that a tight bandage may be applied almost immediately after the accident. In compound fracture the injury is sometimes so great that the sur- geon cannot hesitate about the necessity for amputation: occasionally, in giving the patient a chance to save the limb, the extent of inflam- mation, and its consequences—suppuration and ulceration—are ulti- mately such as to demand this last resource, though it will happen in such instances that a fitting time for its performance may never occur, and the patient sinks ; but, on the other hand, the most happy results will sometimes follow this complicated injury. Shortly before I left the Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh, a patient came into the house under my care with a compound fracture of the patella, occasioned by being blown down in a violent gale of wind, and striking the knee against the sharp corner of an iron lamp-post. She was immediately conveyed home, and the edges of the wound in the skin were brought together with adhesive straps, whilst the limb was placed in the ex- tended position. The accident happened about eight o’clock P.M., on the 8th of February, 1840, and on her admission next day, at one p.m., her pulse was slow and feeble, her extremities cold, and there was great general depression. On examination, the patella was found to be fractured transversely about its middle, and there was a wound on the surface, about an inch and a half in length, running in the same direction a short way below the fracture. On percussion, a con- siderable quantity of air was detected in the joint, in consequence of which the wound, which had partially united, was opened, and the air was pressed out. The limb was then placed on a straight M‘In- tyre splint, the heel raised, and cold applications made to the wound. A thin fluid like synovia continued to ooze out for many days. This patient (aged about forty) had considerable fever, and smart local inflammation, for the first four or five days, but ultimately made an excellent recovery: on the fourth of March the fragments were in good apposition, and in eight days more she was dismissed cured. Towards the end of treatment in a case of fractured patella, when the patient is allowed to stir about on crutches, the movements of the knee should be restrained with bandages or other convenient apparatus. In private practice, nothing will answer better for tins purpose than the laced knee-caps, which, now-a-days, are so admira- bly constructed from caoutchouc in its different forms. As somewhat analogous to the above injuries, I may here refer to rupture of the ligament of the patella, and also to that of the united ten- dons of the rectus and crureus muscles. The former, I believe, occurs very rarely, and, indeed, I may say the same for the latter,—an example of which, however, came under my notice some time ago in the person