118 TUMOURS. source. If the surgeon thought of scooping out the disease, as he would a caries, in the manner which will be described with reference to the last-named condition in the tibia, I would recommend that both he and the patient should be prepared for the necessity, which might immediately ensue, of amputating the limb above the knee. The dis- ease has been found to extend so deep in the interior of the bone, and also to cause such expansion and swelling, as to be far beyond reach from such local measures. Ligature of the femoral has been known to be successful; and judging from the favourable issue of deligation of the carotid for similar tumours (as I suppose them) on the head, by Travers, Dalrymple, and many subsequent operators, out of whom I may single Dr. Mussey, of America, and Professor Kuhl, of Leipzig, who have even tied both carotids for such a disease on the scalp, I imagine that it would be the most judicious practice to try such a me- thod, before resorting to others, which more immediately implicate the safety of the limb. A most interesting case, in the lower part of the femur, supposed to be of this kind, is related by Mr. Hargreaves, of Burnley, in The Medical Gazette for 3rd June, 1842. The femoral artery was tied, and apparently with good effect, when, unfortu- nately, the patient died from an attack of purpura before the efficacy of the operation could be considered as fairly tested. CHAPTER XXVI. TUMOURS. The term Tumour is in general use amongst surgeons, to indicate swelling on any part of the body, under almost any circumstances: thus, a swelling in the scrotum, from whatever cause it may arise, whether from enlargement of the testicle, hydrocele, or hernia, is usually called by the name of tumour: effusion into the synovial capsule of the knee-joint is often thus designated, too, as well as the different forms of white-swelling. Enlarged tonsils, enlarged thyroid gland, enlarged prostate, local enlargement of veins (varices), are also spoken of under this general title. Strictly, the term is applied to instances of adventitious formations of a prominently local character, which may or may not resemble the natural textures of the part or of the body. For example, if a person grows very fat, although the whole body is thus augmented in size, we do not apply the term tumour; but if there is an extraordinary secretion of this fluid in a particular region of the body, constituting a distinct swelling, separated from the surrounding fat and cellular texture by a distinct capsule of the latter tissue, we apply the term tumour,—fatty or adi- pose tumour, in consequence of its resemblance to common fat. Again, in the same tissue, a growth may form, which has no resem-