528 THE CHEST, ABDOMEN, AND PELVIS. ture and the urinary apparatus that children usually possess. Occa- sionally when his bowels were loose, a few drops of faeces would come by the urethra, and he was wont also to discharge part of the urine by the artificial opening. On several occasions small hard urinary deposits were discharged from the anus, and I had to extract one about the size of a hazel-nut. Often his mother had to remove small seeds and barley-pickles from the orifice of the urethra, and once she extracted a small portion of bone which he had swallowed in his food. On inspecting the parts after death I found that the bowel terminated in the membranous portion of the urethra, by an aperture about the size of a lancet puncture, and not in the upper end of the bladder as was at first imagined. When the infant cannot be relieved by an opening in the perineum, the sigmoid flexure of the colon may be cut into through an opening made in front, (as was originally proposed by Littre,) or any other portion of the large intestine which might happen to be prominent. The descending colon, as was recommended by Callisen, perhaps even the sigmoid flexure, may be reached behind where not covered by the peritoneum, and thus that membrane may be avoided ; but such pro- ceedings have been attended with indifferent success, and considering the condition in which the patient is afterwards left, with an artificial anus in the side, constantly permitting the escape of the contents of the bowels, such results are scarcely to be regretted. In the adult the lower part of the intestine in some individuals becomes completely obstructed, by the contraction of a stricture, or in the progress of scirrhus and cancer of the rectum. Amussat in such a case, has strongly recommended the formation of an artificial anus higher up, and has succeeded in relieving several patients in this way. Mr. Teale of Leeds, Mr. Alfred Jukes of Birmingham, and others have performed such operations. The latter gentleman has published some drawings of the parts, in an instance where he opened the descending colon behind the peritoneum in the lower part of the lumbar region : his patient died on the sixteenth day, and one upon whom Mr. Teale operated in March 1842, died on the seventh day after. Operations are frequently required in cases of hemorrhoids. Dur- ing the inflamed condition of these tumours, such treatment is sel- dom advisable. The ordinary means of subduing that disease — such as leeches, fomentations — especially those which are termed anodyne, rest, the horizontal position, and laxatives, form the only reasonable method of practice in such instances, although some- times when one or more of the inflamed projections are very hard and prominent, a lancet may be advantageously thrust in, or if the base be not extensive, the scissors may be used to snip away the greater part of the disease. But in general, such interference cannot, in my opinion, be deemed good practice. I believe, however, that in the chronic condition of such tumours much more may be done by active surgical interference than is commonly supposed. Here 1