THE CHEST, ABDOMEN, AND PELVIS. 516 Purgatives, in my opinion, invariably add to the patient’s distress, by increasing the already excited action in the intestines above the seat of stricture : great quantities of tepid water introduced into the large intestines by a long flexible tube attached to the enema syringe, as recommended by Dr. 0‘Beime, may be of greater service, although not much to be relied upon either. A repetition of opiates and anti- spasmodics will seldom do harm, and occasionally while the patient is under the influence of one or other of these, the worst symp- toms will disappear, and the taxis may now be successful, — in- deed, in some instances the swelling recedes spontaneously. It may often be a question how long such efforts shall be continued; and here the surgeon must be guided by a variety of circum- stances, which his general professional knowledge will lead him to appreciate. If the patient be young and plethoric, the tumour small, hard, and tender, the abdomen tense and painful, the pulse small, quick, and hard, if there is incessant vomiting, and occasional hiccup, coldness of the extremities, great depression of strength, and general distress, there should be little time lost in pursuing such me- thods, more especially if any of them have been tried before; but if, on the other hand, the symptoms are not so urgent they may be persisted in for hours or for days. In one instance strangulation may produce fatal effects, although relieved within a few hours; in another, the condition may be present for many days, and yet permanent relief may be afforded by the taxis or by cutting. On one occasion a sur- geon will at once feel convinced that the taxis will not succeed, while in other examples he may see no impropriety in continuing his trials in this way for half an hour, an hour, or more, with or without the adjuncts above alluded to. In hospital practice these preliminary measures have commonly been tried before the surgeon sees the case, and on these occasions he seldom delays as long as he otherwise might. To accomplish the intention of the taxis in an example of inguinal hernia, the patient should be laid on his back, and a cushion should be placed under the shoulders, whilst the thigh is bent towards the abdomen; the surgeon should place his fingers on the tumour so as to raise it a little, if it be down as far as the scrotum, and at the same time to apply pressure upon a large extent of its surface : he should then push upwards, outwards, and towards the peritoneal cavity, and if the attempt is to be successful, the contents of the sac will diminish, at first in an almost imperceptible degree, but towards the end of the operation, with great rapidity, and with a peculiar guggling noise. To prevent a recurrence of the protrusion, a truss should be afterwards worn at all periods when the patient is in the erect posture, or em- ployed in any kind of exercise or labour. In many instances, when there is great tendency to protrusion it may even be advisable to keep the instrument on whilst in bed. If one has been worn for a long period, perhaps from infancy, and if the protrusion has never been large, it may probably be laid aside at last; but there may be danger