34 SUTURES. Needles made of gold or silver have been recommended and used for the above purpose, with steel points, which can be screw- ed off and on at pleasure, (fig. 38,) under the absurd idea that Fig. 38. these precious materials are less irritating to the parts than the baser metal. The polished surface of the common sewing needle, is as little likely to do harm as that of either of the other metals, it possesses greater proportional strength, and its size is likely to produce less pain and irritation than the more clumsy instrument above referred to. A needle of this size, (fig. 3.0,) with the eye covered with a bit of sealing-wax, to enable the Fig. 30. surgeon to push it through the textures, will answer for gene- ral purposes. It is such as was recommended by John Bell, with the addition of the round head of wax, whereby the surgeon can dispense with any assistance from the port-aiguille, or the handle of a tambouring needle. Of late I have frequently used a needle made expressly for the twisted suture. It is flat and shaq) at the point, and makes its way more readily than the common needle; it is, moreover, not so highly tempered, and its point can, therefore, be more readily snipped otf with the pliers, whose edges will always suffer from the hardness of the former. The thread for sutures should be a little thicker than that for tying arteries. For the common stitch nothing answers better than ordi- nary linen thread doubled, but I prefer a bit of thin twine for the twisted suture; and with either of these, as also with the ligatures for arteries, if the material appears too limber, a little bees-wax on the surface may be advantageously used, to prevent entanglement, and to facilitate the casting of the noose as already explained at p. 25. In consequence of the recommendation of Mr. Nunnely, I have lately used caoutchouc thread for the internipted suture, but after giving it repeated trials, it seems to me, for various reasons, inferior to the common silk or linen thread. It is more difficult to procure; the slightest stretching causes it to extend irregularly; it becomes thin at one part and thick at another; it curls up into knots, and is not so readily fastened as the common thread; and when I add, that it does not seem to produce less irritation than that for which it has been substituted, and is, besides, somewhat more troublesome