INCISIONS. EXCISIONS. 337 of the sailor on whom the above-named surgeon operated ; for here, instead of being able to move freely about without the aid of a stick, the patient was obliged to support himself by a crutch, whilst the limb hung useless, being shorter than the other by several inches, and so flexible at the cicatrix, that it was totally unfit either for support or progression. In many respects there is great similarity between the diseases of the elbow and the knee ; but considering the vast size of the wound required for the removal of the ends of the bones in the latter joint, one cannot be surprised that this operation should have been done so rarely compared with the frequency of that on the elbow. Besides the indifferent success of the dozen or more operations which have been recorded, I confess that in selecting amputation in my own practice, I have been influenced chiefly by the consideration whether the object to be gained by the patient would be worth the risk to be incurred, and have invariably come to the conclusion, that, by removing the limb above the seat of disease, I have done what was best for present safety and future comfort. Per- haps if we had sufficient evidence to reason upon, it might appear that the success attending excision of the knee-joint would bear a similar proportion to that of the elbow, as amputation in the thigh bears to that in arm, and that, therefore, excision in the lower extremity would not be so successful as in the upper ; taking it for granted, too, (as, indeed, may be proved,) that excision of the elbow is equal to ampu- tation in the arm, in saving life, a similar operation on the knee might be deemed proportionably successful. I imagine, however, that there must be greater relative danger in the knee ; but in the absence of sufficient proof on this point, I shall not argue further upon it. The surgeon will at all times feel reluctance in resorting to amputation ; and, for my own part, that feeling has ever been greatest where the operation has been required in the upper extremity; for I deem the loss of a hand a more severe deprivation than that of a foot, and would therefore encourage a patient to submit to excision of the elbow, when I might not do so in the knee. Some may, however, entertain different views of the value of the members, but at all events it seems evident that further experience is wanted to decide the relative merits (if any) of excision of the knee over amputation in the thigh. In the dead subject, or on the living body, the operation may be performed thus:—An incision between three and four inches long should be made on each side of the joint, opposite the lateral liga- ments, and a third should be earned across the fore part, so as to unite the whole, like the letter H. The ends of the lateral incisions should be nearly at equal distances above and below the articulation, and that in front should extend over the patella. This bone should now be detached by dividing the textures around it, close to its margins, and the soft parts should then be dissected upwards and downwards, to a sufficient extent to permit of a thorough examination of the diseased bones. And to facilitate this, as well as the future stages of the operation, the lateral and crucial ligaments should be z