347 AMPUTATIONS OF THE FOOT. close to tlie under surface of the metatarsal bones as it is carried towards the surgeon. This long flap, with the short one above, will form an excellent covering to the ends of the bones. Drawing 182 illustrates part of the operation just described, and the stump when healed will present the appearance exhibited in figure 183. If the internal cuneiform bone seems to project too much, its ex- tremity may be cut off with the saw or forceps, as was done by Mr. Hey; but, I believe, this will not be required on all occasions. The proceeding of 'Chopart consists in the division being made in the line of articulations between the calcaneum and cuboid, astragalus and scaphoid bones. From the joints being larger and the bones less firmly knit together than in the seat of Key’s operation, amputation through the tarsus is much more easily performed ; but it should not be preferred on this account, and it ought to be extreme necessity only, from the nature and extent of disease or injury, which should induce the surgeon to sacrifice so large a portion of the foot. In such an example as this, the separation of the dead parts might have been Fi,j. 184. left to nature, but the process would have been tedious, and I there- fore deemed it better to use the knife. I have seen an exellent stump in a similar case, where all that was considered requisite was division of the bones with the saw. It is not always, however, that the work is so perfect, and if the surgeon interferes it will be better to preserve Haps, sufficiently large to cover the ends of the remaining bones. The dotted lines on the drawing (184) show the course of the incisions, which it will be perceived are very similar to those recommended for llev’s operation, excepting that they are placed nearer the ankle. The whole proceedings should be similar to those described ; a small semilunar flap being preserved from the upper surface, and a large one from the sole. In disarticulating, if the left hand is used in the manner above adverted to, the bones will separate vei'y readily as soon as the point of the knife is applied to the ligaments thus put upon the stretch. The projection of the scaphoid bone is the only prominent point which can be referred to as a guide, but on the living