FRACTURES OF THE FORE-ARM. 177 form excision of the ends of the bones of this articulation, in conse- quence of inflammation and caries resulting from the primary in- jury. Such events are, fortunately, by no means of general occur- rence ; hut non-union of the fragments may be the result, and a partial loss of power with the triceps extensor, as may be imagined from an examination of a specimen of this kind in my possession (fig. 82). This preparation shows the distance to which the process may be separated by the action of the triceps; and in order to prevent such a result, the arm must be kept extended so as to keep the fragments as nearly in contact as circumstances will permit. A splint eight or ten inches in length, kept in front of the joint with a bandage, will answer this purpose. Here it will be proper to keep a watch on the condition of the arti- culation,—at first, lest higli inflammation should ensue, and latterly to prevent a stiff joint, which last may happen if the former has been considerable ; for if there be a likelihood of this result, it may be well to put the elbow in a bent position, as the patient will probably have more use of the arm in this attitude, even though bony union does not occur, than with the part in a state of extension and anchylosed (in a manner) at the same time. Both bones of the fore-arm may be fractured at the same time, and the fissures may be almost opposite to each other, as represented in Fig. 83. either of the sketches (figs. 83 and 84), or one bone may be broken in its upper third, another in its lower. When the injuries are towards the middle of the fore-arm, as exhibited in the first of these cuts, and possibly, too, when higher up, there may be some difficulty in making sure that both are broken; but if a little above the wrist, as in figure 84, the mobility, as well as other circumstances, will leave no doubt about the nature of the accident. The treatment of these injuries will not, in general, differ from that in fracture of a single bone. In the latter case, when there is no great tendency to displacement, a single splint may, probably, be found sufficient; here, however, two should always be used, and, in adjusting them, one in front the other behind, it must be remembered that the fragments, if allowed to be too close to each other, may coalesce, and thus, as they may actually become united by callus, the movements of supination and pronation will be lost. If proper care is bestowed in adjusting the splints and bandages, the muscular cushion on each surface of the intcrosgeal membrane may be so kept between