OPERATION FOR SPLIT PALATE. 4G9 on the end of a pencil, which had been impacted for twenty-four hours ; and in another, I removed with the scoop-end of a director a small, flat-shaped pebble, which had pressed on the tympanum, and caused deafness for ten years. In modern times the cleft palate has been treated by Roux, Graefe, and others, in the manner of a hare-lip, i. e. the margins have been pared and brought together by interrupted sutures, so as to produce union by the first intention ;—thus closing the fissure, and making the palate as if no such malformation had ever been present. In the pamphlet which Roux published on this subject many years ago, a variety of instruments,—needles, ports aiguille, &c., are described—but most of them may be dispensed with in my opinion. Staphyloraphe (as the operation is termed) may be done thus : The patient should be seated in a good light, and his head should rest on the breast of an assistant: the surgeon should then seize the portion of the uvula on one side of the fissure, with hook-beaked forceps (p. 27), draw it slightly forwards, and then carry a probe-pointed bistoury from the posterior border of the velum to the anterior part of the fissure in the soft palate, so as to make a clean-cut raw surface on its margin ; then the other side should be treated in the same way: next a needle, set in a handle (p. 30), armed with a thread of the ordinary size for the interrupted suture* should be passed from below upwards on one side of the cleft, about a quarter of an inch from the margin: the thread being seized with forceps and pulled forwards, the needle should be with- drawn, re-threaded with the same end as before, and then pushed from above downwards on the other side of the fissure, at the same distance from its cut surface: two, or perhaps three, threads being introduced in the same manner, each should be tied in such a way as to keep the edges in close approximation, and the ends being cut off, the operation is accomplished. Various modifications of this proceeding may be deemed advisable ; thus, the threads may be introduced before the incisions are made : the latter may be effected with scissors instead of a knife: each needle may be introduced from above downwards, but all of these matters may be left to the discretion of the surgeon. 1 need scarcely say, that such an operation can be done only in the soft palate; but should the fissure extend further forward, as it often does, more especially in instances of hare-lip, the aperture in front can be afterwards closed with an ar- tificial palate. Unless the patient is remarkably steady and deter- mined to permit the operation to be finished, it will be needless to at- tempt it ; and as such fortitude is not to be expected before the age of puberty, it will seldom happen that the surgeon’s services are required before this period. Even when he has finished the proceedings in a most satisfactory manner, he must not be over sanguine of a fortunate result. Every precaution must be taken to prevent movement of the palate ; the patient should partake of a meal immediately before the operation, and for the first two days should only swallow a little liquid, which he should allow to pass into the pharynx with the smallest pos-