INSTRUMENTS, DISSECTIONS, In minute dissections, scissors of this shape will be found of service, and as thev are frequently required in the practice of surgery, the hand will thus become habi- tuated to their use. The shape indicated in the sketch is such as I prefer, and the length should be about five inches and a fourth. It will be afterwards found that I seldom recommend scissors for any oper- ation when the knife may be used instead, but they are useful in a variety of ways in almost every occasion of the kind,— in cutting ligatures, stitches, straps, bandages, and for such-like work they are indispens- able : some deem them best adapted for certain operations, and I shall therefore refer to them again at fitting opportunities. There are various shapes of scissors, and for ordinary surgical purposes, I prefer an- other kind exhibited a few pages further on. The straight blades and sharp points, represented by this cut, (fig. 5,) are best suited for dissecting purposes. In dissections or operations requiring cautious cutting, the knife should be drawn lightly and steadily along the surface, and with such force that the textures, as they are divided, shall fall gently to each side. The pressure must be regulated by a variety of circumstances, such as the depth to which it is wished to carry the incision, the nature of the texture to be cut, the proximity of important parts; and, on most occasions, the instrument ought to be carried along, as if it were more the intention to draw it over the textures than against them, for the purpose of their division. Sometimes a bold and free incision is required through a considerable thickness of parts, when a sawing motion of the hand is of advantage; but in general, if the knife be sufficiently fine in the edge, and dexterously drawn along, the textures will be readily separated without much apparent rudeness, or without the appear- ance of scratching, as if a pin was used instead of a sharp-edged weapon. It may appear supererogatory to state, that the knife should, with few exceptions, be held in the right hand. It is proper to mention this, however, as some, on the often-quoted authority of Celsus, con- tend that the surgeon should be as dexterous with the left hand as with the right; affirming, that he should do all the operations of surgery as well with the one as the other. To me it has always