MEANS AND INSTRUMENTS 28 petent assistant is near. When the artery is seized, the blades will remain shut, and the instrument may be allowed to hang till a ligature is applied. The catch may be so put on that it can be slipped out of the way or turned aside, to allow the instrument to be used, at the will of the surgeon, like the common forceps. Various ingenious contrivances exist to make this kind of forceps efficient and of general utility, all of them being modifications of the instruments used by Amussat in torsion of the arteries,—a method of arresting hemorrhage which, though it has been much practised on the continent, has never yet received the sanction of English surgery, and which seems to me to possess such trifling advantages over the ligature, as to induce me still to prefer the latter. The points of the forceps may be finished in the manner represented at p. 7, or they may be constructed as shown in the last sketch. The hook-like point is admirably fitted to seize and hold firm any object, such as an artery, and I have found these forceps, either with or without the catch, of invaluable service in removing small tumours from the neck, axilla, and other such parts, where it is desirable to draw the swelling well out, before using the knife to divide the textures behind. It sometimes happens that the vessels cannot be readily got hold of with the forceps, or can- not be drawn out of their sheaths, so as to allow a thread to be applied. A pointed hook or tenaculum (fig. 29) will then be of advan- tage ; some even prefer it to the forceps on all occasions. The sharp point is thrust through the bleeding vessel and some of the surround- ing parts (for we can scarcely include the artery alone, where the parts are condensed) and then raised, so that the thread may be tied beyond the convexity. Of these methods I give the preference to that with the common forceps, and either of them I consider superior, both in point of fa- cility and security, to that of twisting the ends of the vessels till the blood ceases to flow. Torsion of the main arteries, to suppress he- morrhage, seems to be gaining few advocates among British surgeons; and, so far as my ex- perience enables me to judge, I have never seen reason to change the opinion which 1 have above expressed: small vessels may, how- ever, be advantageously treated in this way, and such a practice has been long followed among surgeons. In arresting the flow of blood to particular parts, as for secondary hemorrhage after am- putations, or in the operation for the cure of