INFLAMMATION. 55 seated, inflammation, it is of service in encouraging the flow of blood to the superficial parts, and thus relieving the deep-seated vessels, acting in this way much in the manner of a counter-irritant. In the latter light, too, I look upon the supposed efficacy of bags of heated bran, salt, or sand, which are favourite remedies with some practitioners. The immediate application of cold has a most decided effect on inflammation, in most instances; but if it does not come into close contact (which is the sense in which the term “ immediate” is used above) with the disease, and the greater part of it, too, I am doubtful if it produces the benefit which some seem to imagine. It has a good effect in allaying the heat and pain of a slight burn or scald;—perhaps in such cases, if applied at an early date, it prevents inflammation, but in the severe forms of such injuries its use is inadmissible, or, at all events, very questionable. In certain cases, as, for instance, an inflamed testicle, it seems to diminish the quantity of blood circulating in the superficial vessels, but it probably throws more into the deeper ones, and thus increases the patient’s suffering. That such is not always the result, here, as also in other parts, may be admitted, for, were the above argument invariably correct, the utility of cold, in injuries of the head, might be doubted; and though upon the whole I prefer warmth to cold, as a local means of treating inflammation, I would, in many instances, trust greatly to the feelings of a patient, and the seeming effect of the remedy otherwise, in persisting in the use of either one or other. Cold is seldom used where local bleeding has been resorted to. It is generally applied by means of water, with ice, if convenient, or by some saline combinations in solution. Counter-irritation is a remedy of great power, I believe, in certain cases and forms of inflammation, but it is often, in my opinion, much abused. In deep-seated disease, as in the spine or hip-joint, after the symptoms of acute action have ceased, the excitement of a new action or disease on the surface, at some distance from that first affected, generally produces benefit. In the treatment of such affections as those alluded to, it is often the custom, after caries has been established, to apply issues on the surface, under the impression that the counter-irritation is of use: I do not, however, suppose that it is of the smallest advantage at this period,—but on this subject I shall be more explicit in my remarks upon caries after- wards. Counter-irritation is effected in the various ways already referred to. The method of applying it, in most general use, is by the common blistering plaster of Cantharides, or the sinapism of mustard, and when a severe and more lasting effect is wished to be produced, the potential or actual cauteries may be resorted to, or the seton, according to the nature of the case, or the supposed efficacy, or applicability, of one or other of these measures. Most of the direct applications to inflamed parts may be said