THE INFERIOR EXTREMITY. 340 sequestrum into pieces, had I not succeeded in removing it entire, and thus I might have been enabled to extract it bit by bit. The discharge from the large cavity soon assumed a healthy appearance, the callus in the course of three weeks had already diminished in cir- cumference, all pain in the limb had ceased, the gap was gradually filling up, and the patient returned to his quarters in the country with every prospect of a complete cure. Excision of the head of the femur has now been performed on several occasions; but experience as to the results of this operation is as yet so limited, that I can scarcely say more on the subject than express a belief that, in some instances of gun-shot injury of the neck or head of the bone, such a proceeding might be of service. If the operation were undertaken for disease of the hip-joint, it would pro- bably be necessary in most instances to scoop away portions of the cotyloid cavity at the same time; but as in such cases the extent of disease in the os innominatum could not well be ascertained before making incisions, and possibly not even then, I fear that the results of the operation would often cause disappointment. Although I have for more than ten years meditated the performance of this operation in morbus coxarius, I have never, amongst the numerous cases of this kind which have come under my notice, met with a single instance where the practice could have been deemed justifiable. The incurable nature of this disease after caries has been established is but too well known; yet the case is not always without hope, and practitioners of much experience must occasionally have witnessed remarkable reco- veries contrary to every reasonable expectation : such instances I have myself seen, and in others, when death has occurred, I have generally observed that the disease has covered a surface so extensive, and that the surrounding textures have at the same time been so involved, that an operation would have been utterly fruitless. In gun-shot injury the operation has been proposed to save the patient from almost cer- tain death, or the fearful and precarious alternative of amputation at the joint, and in future wars the recommendations of such high au- thorities as Mr. Guthrie, Sir George Ballingall, and others of almost equal note, may possibly be put to the test of experience. On the dead subject the head of the bone may be turned out of the acetabulum in the following manner:—The body being placed a little to one side so as to elevate the hip, an incision with a strong bistoury should be carried in a semilunar course about two or three inches above the trochanter, its ends being so limited as not to interfere with the crural nerve in front, or the gluteal artery behind : from the centre of the concavity thus formed, a straight line of incision should be car- ried downwards over the trochanter, the two being each of a length proportioned to the bulk and depth of the parts. The knife shoidd be carried deep, and one flap should be turned forwards and another back- wards, so as to expose the upper part of the trochanter, neck of the bone, and capsular ligament;—the three glutei, more especially the medius and minimus, being freely cut for the purpose. The capsule should