WOUNDS. 97 tation. When ligatures are left in a wound, of course union cannot occur where they are placed; but in general, as soon as they are de- tached, the spaces or sinuses through which they have passed speedily heal. If all circumstances are favourable, union may occur throughout the whole track (saving where the ligatures are) in the course of twenty-four hours or less ; and in eight-and-forty hours, when it may be thought advisable to remove the stitches and first dressings, the bond will be tolerably firm, but certainly seldom such as to save the necessity for further support. In some cases, when there is no drag on the parts, and, consequently, no disposition to separation, (as in the wound of venesection,) a bandage is not requisite after the first four-and-twenty hours ; but when the wound is considerably larger, and the edges heavier, a further degree of support is demanded, else the tender adhesions will be certain to give way. In most instances, when it is said that union by the first intention has occurred, there is usually some little point on the surface where it does not happen, (as where the threads hang out,) and that same point will seldom heal under the lapse of three or four weeks: but this need not be considered a drawback, for there are few instances where a wound can be exposed to the least violence within that period; in a stump, for example, whether of the finger or of the thigh, where early union may have taken place, no freedom can be taken with it,—no artificial limb can be applied for weeks, aye, even for months, in conse- quence of the tenderness of the parts; and here, then, it really signifies less than some seem to imagine, when a small portion of the wound remains open for three or for six weeks. In stating this, I by no means wish the young practitioner to suppose, that he should be careless on such a matter, but it may be satisfactory for him to know, that when surgeons talk of union by the first intention having occurred throughout a wound, such little troublesome points often remain, which the most consummate skill will not cause to heal until nature seems inclined, and this will not be until the open part has gone through the process of suppuration and reached that of healthy granulation, when, as already stated, the sore will heal, as it were, spontaneously. The above remarks apply only to such wounds as are exposed to the atmosphere. When there is air between surfaces, I believe it is impossible that union of this kind can occur, and in external wounds, I imagine that it only happens in those instances where the surfaces are so accurately approximated that the air is excluded. On the con- trary, if the surfaces have never been exposed, the most severe wounds will often unite without the occurrence of suppuration ;—as those of the soft parts in simple dislocations and fractures, where the union, though in some respects different from that usually spoken of as that by the first intention, is, nevertheless, in most features re- markably similar. But the best examples which I can give of the favourable union of parts, are those which have been afforded in modern times by the operations termed “ subcutaneous.” When Lorenz, Sartorius, and li