THE INFERIOR EXTREMITY. 273 whilst the tibia remains entire, and the injury is often attended with severe contusion ; but experience testifies what the relative position of the bones sufficiently denotes,—that unless a fracture or displacement of the tibia exists at the same time, there cannot be much separation between the fragments of the fibula. The most common seat of fracture in this bone is about four inches above its lower extremity; and here the displacement is generally considerable, as the accident is almost invariably attended with dislocation of the tibia inwards on the as- tragalus, or, as the injury is sometimes called, luxation of the foot outwards. The kind of injury referred to will be best exemplified by figure 136, in the preceding chapter; the displacement is commonly occasioned by the weight of the body pressing the tibia downwards after the fibula has been broken; and the internal lateral ligament of the ankle-joint giving way, allows the malleolus to project, al- though in some instances this process is broken off close to the shaft of the tibia, and remains nearly in its natural position. In the latter event, however, the distortion is less remarkable than is re- presented in the cuts. In either case the injury is a complicated one, as the ankle-joint is involved: yet it is satisfactory to know that se- rious results rarely follow ; for, with the exception of a certain amount of thickening and stiffness, with perhaps a slighter degree of promi- nence than that represented in one of the sketches, p. 304, no ultimate inconvenience remains. The tibia, notwithstanding its great proportionate bulk, is, from its functions and more exposed position, much more liable to fracture than the fibula ; and, though 1 believe it is less frequently broken by itself than some imagine, this injury will, doubtless, constitute the most important feature in the case. The bone may give way in any part of its extent; the malleolus interims may be broken off by itself, as usually happens in the different displacements of the foot already described, or it may be complicated with fracture of the fibula, as already explained, and is here well illustrated in figure 151. Some- times it is shattered into various portions in its lower third, as was the case in the next example (fig. 152) taken from a patient of mine who died from the effects of a severe fall some days after the accident. Maceration caused the fragments to separate, but during life there was no such displacement, and the annoyance did not seem greater than might have been expected from a violent sprain. The preparation was kept chiefly with the view of satisfying certain sceptics, who, without such a proof were put before them, might contend that a vertical frac- ture cannot take place, although such an occurrence here, as well as in the upper end of the bone, at the condyles of the femur, and, indeed, in almost every bone, must be admitted by every one in the least ac- quainted with the pathology of such injuries. In one instance the fracture will run straight across, or in another it will be more or less oblique ; sometimes the skin and other soft parts will bo lacerated, and the bone laid bare, or a fragment, usually the upper one, will project through the surface ; again, the contusion and destruction of