CHEST, ABDOMEN, AND PELVIS. .502 ment to the linea innominata, termed Gimbemat’s ligament, which has a crescentic margin looking towards the femoral vessels, will be observed to form its inner boundary ; the horizontal ramus of the os pubis, covered by the pubic portion of the fascia lata and the attachment of the pectineus muscle, will be found to limit it behind; whilst outside it is bounded by the common femoral vein, which, however is covered by the sheath of cellular membrane com- mon to it and the artery. The sheath in this situation is formed by the continuation of that which covers the external iliac vessels, and is strengthened by a prolongation of the fascia transversalis. With a special dissection it is easy to make the last-named membrane appear as if it passed downwards as a kind of funnel upon the femoral vessels, to be attached to their sheath an inch or more below Poupart’s liga- ment ; hence the description occasionally given of the crural hernia descending in the sheath of the vessels. It might be supposed from this that the sac of the hernia is in contact with the femoral vein; but it will be found on all occasions separated from it by a distinct layer of cellular texture, which undoubtedly should be considered the proper sheath of the vessels. If the finger is now passed into the abdomen, and pushed down- wards into the situation of the crural opening; it will be observed that its point is covered by the peritoneum and some loose cellular texture over it, which is evidently part of the fascia transversalis ; a little ad- ditional cellular structure may occupy the situation of the opening. It will now be seen that the following parts must cover a crural hernia; the skin, superficial and cribriform fascia, with those textures last re- ferred to as covering the point of the finger when thrust from above downwards. It is in vain, however, to distinguish those textures in- dividually on the living body during an operation ; and, however dis- tinct they may appear to the anatomist, and however easy he may suppose it to make them out one after the other, the surgeon looks upon them all as one covering, which may be in some instances of con- siderable thickness, and in others so thin as to require caution with the knife in dividing the integuments, lest by a little rashness the sac and bowel are opened at the same time, as has occasionally happened. A crural hernia is seldom larger than a hen’s egg, though occasion- ally seen of much greater size. I have in my possession a specimen wliere nearly one half of the small intestine was found in the sac; and I have seen and operated on others nearly of a similar size. Oc- casionally the tumour is so very small, as to be scarcely distinguished on the most careful examination with the fingers ; indeed, in several instances I have cut down in the supposed seat of a tumour of this description, having been induced to do so more from the existence of most of the symptoms of hernia, and a slight swelling and tender- ness in the situation of a crural hernia, than from the presence of any well-defined tumour; and fortunately in each of these a protrusion of a knuckle of small intestine was discovered. The anatomy of the other species of hernia does not require parti-