401 OPERATIONS FOR WRY-NECK. detailed illustrative of the continued tendency to that result even after the latter process is apparently complete. Of late years, since subcutaneous incisions have become so common, the stemo-mastoid has been frequently cut across for the cure of wry- neck (torticollis) by such a wound. Formerly, in dividing this mus- cle, or any portion of it, the custom was to expose the fibres through an incision on the surface, and afterwards to complete the proceeding on a director; now, however, it can scarcely be doubted that a sub- cutaneous wound should be preferred, and the operation may be done as follows:—The muscle being put on the stretch, a narrow blade (p. 324) should be passed flatwise behind its inner margin to such an extent as may be deemed necessary, when the edge should be turned upon the fibres, and their division effected by cutting towards the skin. Perhaps the incision of the sternal portion of the muscle may suffice ; but in most instances the clavicular portion must be divi- ded also. If the operator is cautious in not pushing the knife too deep at first, there can be no danger in the proceeding just described ; but every anatomist may foresee what might happen from carelessness here. The blade may be first passed below the skin only, and then thrust against the muscle; but if this method is chosen, care must be taken that the knife does not plunge deep when the division of fibres has been effected. After the operation, a pad should be placed over the little wound in the skin and. the space between the retracted ends, and subsequently the case must be treated according to circumstances. If the distortion has previously been slight, possibly no particular apparatus may be requisite; but, in general, as in the instance of club- foot already referred to some mechanism, such as has been represented by Benjamin Bell and others, should be applied, for the purpose of keeping, or rather bringing, the head into a proper position. Laryngotomy and Tracheotomy may be performed on the dead sub- ject, and thus some idea may be formed of these operations on the living body. If an incision be made about an inch long, in the mesial line, be- tween the pomum Adami and the lower margin of the cricoid cartilage, the crico-thyroid membrane may be exposed almost immediately below the integument, the blade nail pass between the two sterno-hyoid muscles, and, on the dead subject in particular, the depth of the wound will be trifling. When the membrane is exposed, the point of the knife should be thrust into it with a kind of jerk, and the requisite extent of incision made—sometimes in a vertical line, at other times in a horizontal, or, in some instances, in a cruciform direction, accord- ing to circumstances. Tracheotomy may be performed thus:—The chin and sternum being well separated, an incision through the skin, about an inch and a half or two inches long, should be made, extending from near the upper margin of the sternum to the fore part of the cricoid cartilage ; then the cellular tissue at the lower end of the wound should be cautiously divid- ed, the operator keeping a sharp look-out for veins that may be in the 2 D