THE INFERIOR EXTREMITY. 242 artery ; the anterior crural nerve will be seen, dividing a little below Poupart’s ligament into its numerous branches, one of which, the nervus saphenus, will be noticed on the outer margin, or perhaps in front of the superficial femoral artery; the crural nerve will be ob- served to be separated from the main artery by a portion of the psoas; part of this muscle, and also of the iliacus internus, will be seen, and it will be further observed, that the whole of these textures are si- tuated in a kind of triangular space, the three sides of which are formed by the sartorius muscle, the adductor longus, and the ligament of Poupart. The dissection should now be conducted, so as to display the con- tinuation of the superficial femoral vessels. The outer margin of the sartorius, about the middle of the thigh, should be slightly drawn towards the inner side of the limb, when, after a little dissection, between this muscle and the vastus internus the superficial femoral artery will be found on the anterior surface of the adductor longus ; the inner margin of the sartorius may then be turned outwards, and it will be found as easy to reach the artery on this side as on the other. The sartorius, which has as yet not been disturbed from its natural position, excepting as above directed, should now be raised throughout its whole length, and turned to the outside, when the main vessels may be traced in their entire course on the anterior aspect of this part of the limb. The sheath should be raised from the artery, from where the vessel has already been uncovered, as low down as the aperture in the adductor magnus. Above, the sheath will appear as condensed cellular substance merely, but be- low it will be found to be formed of an aponeurotic expansion from the adductor longus muscle. The vein will be found behind the ar- tery, and the saphenus nerve will be either on the sheath in front, or within it, in close contact with the artery. The anastomotica magna is the only branch of considerable size which is given off by the artery in this part of its course, and it will be noticed a little higher up than where the main vessel perforates the adductor magnus. If the sar- torius muscle is now replaced, it will be observed to cover the super- ficial femoral vessels throughout a considerable part of their course. The superficial femoral has on several occasions been observed to divide into two branches, as noticed by Sir Charles Bell, Dr. Houston, and others; but such an irregularity seems to be remarkably rare. The common femoral vessels and the anterior crural nerve should now be cut across a little below Poupart’s ligament, and turned down- wards, when some of the branches of the deep femoral can be more clearly made out, particularly those which perforate the adductor muscles: by cutting these across and raising the superficial femoral vessels, the attachments of the adductors to the linea aspera can be examined, as also those of the psoas and iliacus to the trochanter minor. The gracilis muscle, and as much of the adductors as can conveniently be got at, should now be cleared, and after this has been done, and a glance taken at the rectus femoris, and the other extensors,