AMPUTATION AT THE SHOULDER-JOINT. 237 it will be apparent that on all occasions the two methods especially mentioned cannot be put into execution. In gun-shot injury of the shaft of the humerus, or in compound fractures occurring in civil practice, the bone cannot be used as a lever, by grasping it immediately above the elbow ; and under these circumstances the operator must raise or pull the upper fragment out of the way, in any manner he may find most convenient. In such examples he ought always to reserve his left hand free, so that after the first flap is raised, he may be enabled to use it to the best advantage in disarticulating the head of the bone. On certain occasions, when the soft parts are much injured, some ingenuity may be requisite to preserve a sufficiency of textures to form a good covering to the glenoid cavity, and in such examples the removal of the acromion may, possibly, be advantageous ; but the skin in front, behind, and below the aimpit is usually so extensible, that however limited the flaps may be, I should not fear that a good stump would be the result; and the best proof I can give on this subject is the case related at p. 135, in which, though the loss of skin was so great as to expose a large extent of the serratus magnus muscle, the cicatrix ulti- mately appeared very small. In amputating at the shoulder, too, for large tumours in the humerus extending close to the joint, the surgeon must so divide the soft parts, that, whilst he gives himself sufficient space to dissect out the diseased mass, he takes care to leave such an amount of them as will afterwards form a proper covering to the sca- pula. The common catlin will not be available on such occasions, as the operation partakes more of the character of a dissection for the removal of a largo tumour than an amputation. A scalpel or bistoury will be the most efficient instrument. For my own part, I should prefer the latter ; but I have seen a very large tumour of the kind alluded to, with the whole arm, most successfully amputated with a common scalpel. In this instance, the surgeon (Mr. Seine, of Edinburgh) in a very early stage of the proceedings, placed a ligature on the axillary artery; but were I ever to undertake a similar opera- tion, I should prefer disarticulating first, and leaving the division of the soft parts in the axilla for the last movements with the knife.