FRACTURES OF THE SPINE. 493 is to apply a pad over the seat of injury, and to retain it by means of the flannel roller, put on as in the common case. The abstraction of ten or fifteen ounces of blood will seldom be amiss; and should it happen that the difficulty of breathing increases, and the reson- ance of the chest is at the same time greater, the bandage must be removed, and cannot again be applied until the lapse of two or three days. At this time the wound in the lung will have healed,—the open cells will at all events have been closed by lymph,—the air will probably have diminished in quantity, and soon the chest may be en- veloped again. Emphysema in itself cannot be considered a serious condition; it indicates a severe and even dangerous injury of the chest, and on that account the case must be treated with great circum- spection. In extensive diffusion of air immediately under the skin, it might be advisable in some instances to make punctures with a lancet, though this need seldom be resorted to. If the case does well other- wise, the air will ultimately (i. e. in the course of three, five, or eight days) entirely disappear. It is customary in such cases to say that it has been absorbed; but from what we know of its injurious effects in the circulation, it is, with me, difficult to imagine that it all goes off in this way, and I am inclined to suppose, that there must be a process of cutaneous exudation as well. If the dorsal portion of the spinal column has been fractured, or two of the vertebra have been separated from each other, the injury is almost as hopeless as those in the cervical region, already referred to. Such accidents must invariably be accompanied with serious lesion of the spinal marrow, and the aid of surgery will seldom, if ever, prove of any avail. The patient will be paralysed below the seat of injury, and though, perhaps, perfectly sensible, and able to use his amis freely, he will have little or no power over the muscles below; the integuments will be insensible to touch; the sphincter ani will have little or no power; the bladder will be paralysed, with consequent retention ; and often there will be continued priapism. The state of the bladder will render the catheter necessary at regular intervals, (perhaps twice or three times a day,) and as the patient will always rest in the position in which his body is placed for the time, and moreover will require great attention as to cleanliness, all care must be taken by means of pillows, and attention to the bed-clothes, to pi-event injurious pressure on certain points, and to keep the skin as dry as circumstances will permit. Extension has been applied to the column in some of these cases, and pressure has been laid upon the gibbous point by way of forcing the protrusion at the back (which is often conspicuous) into its proper position. The wooden bed (scamnum) of Hippocrates has been used for the purpose, and Oribasius alludes to such practice. No ham, in my opinion, can accrue from a moderate attempt at extension, although its ultimate utility may be doubted; but the idea of forcing the protrusion into a proper position seems preposterous. Mr. Henry Cline proposed to remove one or more of the lamina? in