THE SUPERIOR EXTREMITY. 150 lower bone will ride over that of the upper either above or be- low; as is represented in the two figures (5G and 57), in which, Fig. 57. for the sake of clearness, the phalanges are exhibited divested of all coverings. I need scarcely add, that the distal joint may be dislocated in a similar manner, although it must be admitted that these displacements in the fingers are more rare than some appear to suppose. Lateral displacement in any of the phalanges rarely, if ever, hap- pens without severe destruction of the parts; as, indeed, maybe easily conjectured from an examination of the joints; and, in such cases, amputation may possibly be required. In all probability the dislo- cation will be compound, and therefore taking the risk of severe in- flammation, and also that of a stiff joint, into consideration, I ima- gine that the removal of the part will often be the best course;—but more will be said on this subject in the chapter on fractures, with which injuries those at present under notice are not unfrequently associated. For the reduction of a simple case, as above described, the patient’s hand must be held firmly in the left hand of the surgeon, who should grasp the lower part of the finger with his right, somewhat in the manner shown in the next drawing, when, by steady extension, the lower phalanx will slip into its proper place. In most instances suc- cess will be more rapidly attained, by gently moving the lower part of the finger upwards and downwards, and in some it will be advan- tageous to bend the member with considerable force towards either the back or palm of the hand. Simple dislocations of the fingers from the metacarpal bones are of more frequent occurrence than tne above; and the fore or little finger, from their comparatively unprotected position, are most exposed to those forces which cause displacement. The phalanx will be either on the palmar or dorsal surface of the metacarpal bone, and may, in gene- ral, be readily reduced by following the foregoing instructions. The surgeon, by grasping the finger nearer its root, as seen in this figure