DISSECTIONS OF THE NECK. 375 sides, the muscles which have been raised and turned down on the sternum should be replaced, and thus again the depth between the stemo-mastoid muscles immediately above the sternum will be ap- parent. At the bottom of this space some of the rings of the trachea may be noticed between the sterno-hvoid muscles ; but possibly the tube has not as yet been sufficiently cleared to permit its being seen: a small part of it should, however, be laid bare by dividing the cel- lular tissue in contact with it between the two muscles last named, about an inch or a little more above the sternum, and thus some idea may be formed of the difficulty which has occasionally been experi- enced in tracheotomy in this situation, more especially in short-necked muscular subjects, straining every muscle in the neck during inspira- tion, and having the veins distended, and perhaps, too, the cellular tissue under the skin infiltrated with serum from the previous use of sinapisms and blisters. In this view of the parts also it may be ob- served that the sternal portion of the right sterno-mastoid muscle covers the arteria innominata. The under ends of the muscles may now again be turned down, and the other extremities of the sterno-hyoid and stemo-thyroid should be dissected upwards. Thus the thyroid gland will be brought into view, and, by some additional dissection, so as to remove the cellular tissue from the trachea above and below the gland, the greater part of the tube will be exposed. The cellular- substance should be completely removed from behind the upper margin of the sternum, as far down as the knife and forceps can conveniently reach, when the vena innominata of the left side will now be seen throughout its course in this situation, and that on the right side may also be more distinctly perceived than hitherto. It usually happens, however, that both of these vessels are so deeply placed that they may probably not be seen at all in this part of the dissection. The arteria innominata will, however, be completely cleared for surgical purposes. Perhaps, in dissecting in front of the trachea at the root of the neck, a small artery may have been noticed passing upwards to the thyroid gland, (the middle thyroid coming from the innominata or arch of the aorta,) but it i3 an irregularity not often met with, and probably of less consequence than some have imagined. Besides the anterior jugular which, as has already been stated, may be in this situation, smaller veins will be met with, passing downwards to join the large vessels at the root of the neck. Between the sternum and chin the following parts may now be noticed. The arteria innominata,—its lowermost end, perhaps, nearly in front of the trachea, but the greater portion of it being to the right side of that tube : the rings of the trachea, uncovered for about two inches above the sternum ; then, the isthmus of the thyroid gland, and above it two or three rings of the trachea : the cricoid and thyroid cartilages, with the membrane between them: the pomum Adami formed by the projection of the union of the two plates of the last- named cartilage : the hyoid bone, with the membrane between it and