128 AMPUTATION. advocates for this operation,—those who insist on the necessity for a thick covering,—to make the incisions in such a manner as to preserve the skin only. Mr. Liston has recommended that in this situation “ two semilunar flaps had better be made, one from the anterior aspect of the limb, the other from the posterior, the muscles being cut short in the ham.” In very muscular subjects the large posterior flap which is usually made here, is almost certain to project consider- ably beyond the skin; I have noticed a similar thing with the deltoid muscle after amputation at the shoulder joint: the occurrence retards the cure ; but in the course of some additional time, perhaps a month or more, the stump differs little from one where no such protrusion has ever happened. In either of these cases, and whether the opera- tion has been by flap or by circular wound, the stumps are at last so much alike in certain parts of the body, that it is occasionally difficult, after the lapse of years, to say whether an amputation has been by one mode or the other : at all events, when such distinction can be drawn from the shape of the cicatrices, it is evident that the end of the bone is covered by much the same thickness of soft parts, in one instance as in the other. If there has been a full fleshy stump shortly after the operation, all muscular fibre has at last disappeared, and the skin, with a substance resembling condensed cellular texture, alone covers the bone. This substance, undoubtedly, gives great protection to the end of the bone, and its presence is absolutely necessary, I should almost say, to constitute what may be deemed a good and useful stump: there- fore, whether the circular or flap incision is resorted to, I would always endeavour to preserve more than the skin for a covering. The rugged and uneven surfaces which are usually made by the circular incision form an objection to this operation also, as they may possibly not come accurately into apposition, and thus union by the first intention may be prevented; but it is so difficult to calculate on the contraction of muscles in such operations, that I doubt if any accurate data can be collected on these matters. Non-union, suppura- tion, and granulation may happen from one operation as well as the other; and whether union by the first intention has been obtained or not, I believe that most surgeons of experience will join with me in opinion, that more trouble will result from some little point of the wound where union has not occurred, than from any want of it result- ing from the irregularity of surface above referred to. I feel bound to state that I have seen adhesion by the first intention follow as per- fectly after the circular operation as after the flap; and, in addition, I have seen as good stumps from the one as the other. It is impossible to argue that non-union, suppuration, protrusion of bone, exfoliation, tumours on the- ends of nerves, and so forth, have not followed the circular operation,—all these evils must be admitted ; but the same results have occurred from the method by flap. It is, indeed, difficult to imagine why the circular incisions should cause all the above troublesome results, whilst the flap method should avoid them : for my part, I shall not feel convinced on the subject, until 1