FRACTURES OF THE LOWER JAW. 425 part of the bone where it is very common, viz. in the mental region ; sometimes it is further back, and occasionally a separation takes place as here represented, and towards the angle of the bone at the same time. The condyles were broken off in this instance,—a most unusual occurrence I believe,—but the patient, from whose body after death I took the preparation, had a fall from a great height, which caused most extensive injury. The symphysis is no unusual seat of fissure in young persons. It is seldom that there is any difficulty in detecting the nature of such a case,—the pain on moving the jaw, the crepitus, and the irregularity in the teeth and alveoli, usually at once indicate what is wrong: nor is there much difficulty in the treatment; for whatever will suffice to keep the fragments moderately still will answer all that can be desired. The method which I have usually followed has been to shape two narrow wedges of cork about an inch and a half long, a quarter thick at the base and sloping away to a point, one of which has been placed on each side between the teeth, and then I have affixed a wetted and softened piece of pasteboard on the chin, which has next been drawn tightly up by means of a bandage carried from this part over the crown of the head : as the pasteboard has got dry, a kind of mould has thus been formed on the chin, which has obstructed all future movements so long as it has been kept on. The cork wedges have insured regularity as regards the teeth, and an opening has been left between the incisors whereby the patient has been fed upon soups and other fluid nourishment. Generally, however, the wedges have be- come loose, and in the course of ten or fifteen days the patients have become accustomed to restrain the movements of the part; and without taking particular pains about tightening the bandages afterwards, I have usually seen most excellent cures follow. Recently I treated a case of this kind in a boy, on whom, partly from his restlessness and partly in consequence of wound in the skin, it was impossible to adjust any apparatus in an accurate manner,—the fragments, though moveable at first, soon became in a manner fixed by the surrounding inflammatory swelling, and the case went on as favourably as could have been de- sired. When the cork is used, and indeed under any circumstances, the patient should be enjoined to rinse the mouth frequently, and a little tincture of myrrh put into the water occasionally may assist in keeping the gums in tolerable condition until more freedom can be taken with the parts. Various pieces of mechanism have been devised for this kind of fracture : a leather case to fit the chin and to fasten on the head by straps and buckles may be applied ; a double-headed roller, having a slit in the middle to receive the chin, has been a favourite bandage: Mr. Lonsdale has invented an ingenious steel apparatus for the purpose; but for my own part, I should commonly prefer the pasteboard, cork, and bandage above recommended. The nasal bones, from their exposed position, arc often broken, by blows, falls, and such like violence: from the frequency with which united fractures are met with in the dissecting-room, I imagine that