a/ EFFUSION OF SERUM AND OF LYMPH. inflammations of the periosteum, hone, eye-hall, ear, and under aponeuroses. But in some instances, and these, too, not of rare occurrence, swelling becomes so remarkable, or is so peculiar in its character, as to require some appropriate treatment, different from that resorted to in ordinary inflammation. If swelling is dependent merely on enlargement of bloodvessels, it can never require much treatment solely as swelling, although the relief of the over-distended vessels, by the measures already referred to, viz., drawing blood from their immediate vicinity, or by their actual division, may be of great service in checking the disease: but if this condition depends on any of those forms of effu- sion, which so frequently follow as consequences of inflammation, then the aid of the surgeon may prove of great value. In some parts of the body swelling constitutes one of the most conspicuous symptoms of inflammation,—as in the eyelids, scrotum, or prepuce. In these situations it is almost invariably the result of effusion of serum into the cellular texture, which, once the active form of the disease has ceased, disappears almost as rapidly as it may have come on. In other parts of the body, too, as in the hands and feet, a similar swelling may exist, the term cedema being that in general use to designate this condition. When a part is in this state, it is always easily recognized from any other kind of swelling, from the dimple which is left after the forcible application of the finger, and probably by the shining and partly translucent appearance of the skin. A similar condition may be present independent of any apparent inflammatory action, as in the swollen state of the body which occasionally follows scarlet fever, or in anasarca resulting from diseased heart or kidneys. From whatever cause it may arise, the surgeon should remember, that unless the part affected (supposing the condition to be entirely local) be supported on a level with the rest of the body, or, at all events, be kept from a very dependent position, the swelling is almost certain to increase : hence the excellent rule of elevating a part affected with inflammation or any action of a somewhat similar kind. Thus, in the scrotum, if this species of enlargement is not attended to, and supposing the patient to be confined to bed, the swelling gets between the legs, or falls so low between the groins, and produces so great distension of the skin, that ulceration, or mortification, may actually occur: again, if in a like condition of the hand or foot, these parts be allowed to lie below the level of the rest of the body, the same results may happen. By suspending the scrotum properly, or keeping the other parts sufficiently high, all such dangers may be avoided; and, indeed, unless position be properly attended to in the treatment of accident or disease, the state of cedema is exceedingly apt to occur,—even a little irregular pressure, from a bandage, or other cause, may occasion the same result. As a proof of the advantage of position in such cases, 1 may refer to the condition of the face, and particularly the eyelids