35 SUTURES. to remove, I think I have given sufficient grounds for the opinion above expressed. Other sutures are described by surgical authors, but they are seldom used in practice; and, so far as my experience goes, I am inclined to think that with either of the above, slightly modified by circumstances, all the desired objects of the suture can be obtained. In a deep wound, for example, I would prefer passing the thread or needle deep in proportion (taking care, however, not to carry either under important textures,) to the complicated, trifling, and inefficient quilled suture recommended by some. In certain parts of the body, as in the female perineum, a straight needle can scarcely be passed so as to penetrate deeply, but one of a curved form, such as may be seen at p. 29, can be used either for the interrupted or twisted suture. In the twisted suture, as in that previously described, the needles should be removed on the second or third day. Removing them earlier might be attended with danger of the wound opening; and leaving them longer might cause such irritation as to produce a similar result. In some persons they occasion little or no evil when allowed to remain ; but, on the other hand, I doubt if their presence is of any service after the first eight-and-forty hours, though I have, nevertheless, frequently allowed three and four days to elapse without interfering with them at all. In removing these sutures, the wax on the needle should be seized betwixt the fore- finger and thumb, or by the forceps, and with a gentle twirling motion the needle should be withdrawn. The threads may possibly remain, and as they may still give some support, and cannot produce any harm, they had better be allowed to drop away of their own accord. It is scarcely necessary to state, that the parts should be kept as steady as possible whilst these proceedings are going on. The withdrawal of the needle is apt to be attended with a sudden jerk, and care should be taken to avoid it, by also keeping a steady command over this instrument After the removal of any kind of suture, although the surfaces of the wound may have united, it is good practice in general, to re-apply straps and bandages, so as to give support to the tender adhesions. Sometimes straps alone will suffice; at other times a bandage may seem best: commonly both at once will be found most efficient. If the wound has not united, a variety of dressings may be required, as will be noticed in the chapters on suppuration and granulation, and here I may refer to the chapter on wounds, and to my remarks on dressing stumps, for further illustrations of this department of practical surgery.