DISLOCATIONS AND FRACTURES. 102 pus, which often occurs in such cases, is thereby rendered less likely, and a few incisions at first (that is, when suppuration has occurred, or when the inflammation is high—perhaps of a gangrenous character), judiciously made, may probably avert the necessity for amputation, which is the occasional result of compound fracture. Whatever course of treatment may be necessary for inflammation and its conse- quences, the strictest care should be taken to keep the fragments in good position, and perfectly quiet. The question of amputation in compound fracture is frequently one of great interest, and it will be often canvassed in the after parts of this work. In all instances when a limb is injured beyond the hope of recovery, there seems little doubt among the present race of surgeons, that immediate or primaiy amputation should be performed ; the sta- tistics collected by Mr. Guthrie, and still more recently by Mr. Rutherford Alcock, give decided proof in favour of this practice. The chief difficulty in such injuries seems to consist in determining which are the cases where attempts may reasonably be made to save both limb and life, and whether in saving the former such a useful member will be preserved as to warrant the risk to which the latter may be subjected. In all instances of doubt I should lean to that decision which might save mutilation, whenever I imagined that the future circumstances of the patient afforded a fair chance of recovery; but assuredly I should neither consider it a matter of gratulation, nor an illustration of judicious practice, that the surgeon had refused to am- putate, for the sake of preserving a limb, which at best could only be deemed an eyesore and an incumbrance. I trust it will be afterwards found in these pages, that I am no advocate for interference by means of operations when other measures may suffice, and more especially when that interference implies the loss of an important member ; for I imagine that as much good judgment may be displayed by patiently watching the efforts of nature, as by an officious meddling ; but, on the other hand, I cannot admire or sanction that kind of surgery which inculcates the saving of a limb at all hazards, merely for the sake of avoiding amputation ;—hazards, too, which involve the life of the patient, and the probability of an ultimate necessity for this operation. More than thirty years since a method of treating fractures with- out splints was recommended by M. Sauter, of Constance, and Dr. Mayor, of Lausanne, and a mode of swinging broken bones was also recommended ; but although both plans are occasionally followed in the present day, and although I think well of the practice of suspend- ing fractures of the leg, I cannot give it a preference, nor omit this opportunity of referring to the objections (stated in an after part of this volume) to treating fractures without splints, which seem to me so apparent, that I wonder how such a mode could ever have had its advocates. There is no deficiency of evidence that fragments will unite without the aid of splints, nor is there proof wanting to show that occasionally they will not unite, however carefully any kind ot