394 THE HEAD AND NECK. been allowed between the operations, as has been evinced in the practice of Kuhl, Mussey, and others. Mr. Crosse was on one occasion called in to place a ligature on one of these vessels, the other having been secured a short time previously; but on trying pressure on the vessel, the symptoms became so alarming that he did not inter- fere. I am inclined to think, with all due deference to such an authority, that pressure with the fingers produces effects very different from a ligature, and that therefore such a mode of testing the immedi- ate danger of deligation is not altogether to be relied on. A case illustrative of this occurred to me in the summer of 1841. Being about to place a ligature on the common carotid, some doubts were entertained as to the immediate results of the proceeding, in conse- quence of the singular symptoms caused by pressure in the course of the vessel. When the ligature was tightened, however, no similar complaints were made, and I conclude, therefore, that the peculiar effects of the previous compression in this instance were not dependent on the mere obstruction of the carotid. When the surgeon has the option of selecting a part of the vessel on which to place a ligature, the upper third of its course is decidedly the most eligible, and here the operation may be done in the following manner:—The patient should be laid on his back with the shoulders a little elevated, and the head slightly turned to the side opposite to that on which the incisions are to be made. The surgeon, standing at the head of the table as recommended for some of the preceding operations, should commence the incision about an inch and a half below the pomum Adami, over the inner margin of the sterno-mastoid, and carry it upwards for three inches or more, in a line parallel with the fibres of that muscle. Such a line is indicated by letter c in figure 19.5, p. 382. The skin, platysma myoides, and superficial fascia should all be divided to about the same extent, and when the above-named fibres are exposed they should be drawn slightly outwards, and then the cellular tissue forming the sheath of the vessels should be cautiously opened with the knife, opposite the middle of the thyroid cartilage : by sight and touch the artery will be recognized, and by a most care- ful application of the blade near its outer side, there will be room made for the introduction of the needle, which should be carried round, its point being close upon the vessel, from without inwards, and thus the operation may be completed as in other examples. An expert anatomist may accomplish this proceeding without seeing any of those important parts which lie in close proximity. It may be different, however, for on many occasions the internal jugular has overlapped the artery so much (from its great size) that much care has been necessary to avoid it. I have already, in my remarks on the surgical anatomy in this situation (p. 378), explained how this is likely to occur in consequence of the difference in size of this vein on opposite sides or in different individuals, and it is very certain, as I have myself experienced, that the jugular may not be seen at all during the whole proceeding.