INCISION’S. EXCISIONS. 335 last referred to. In compound fracture the removal of a projecting portion of bone is occasionally of great advantage, particularly if the part be very sharp or much pointed. I should, however, be cautious about removing the whole, or nearly the whole thickness of the bone, especially in the adult, if the fibula is allowed to remain of its usual length : it is doubtful whether in all cases (if, indeed, in any where the entire diameter of the bone is cut across) a sufficiency of callus will lie thrown out to unite the remaining portions, and I have known one instance, where this practice was resorted to, occurring about the middle period of life, in which, after the lapse of many months, the ends of the tibia never united, and amputation was at last resorted to, as the fibula proved an insufficient support of itself for the super- incumbent weight. In disease of the tibia these partial operations are frequently performed, and with much benefit. I have not in my own practice met with an instance of abscess in this bone where I thought it requisite to perforate the shell with a trephine or other cutting in- strument, to permit the escape of matter; but I have met with many examples where abscesses have burst spontaneously, and left so much disease behind as to render a free opening absolutely necessary; and collections of matter in or about the periosteum involving portions of the surface of the bone in caries are so common in practice that little need be said regarding them here. In some instances too, ulcers of the skin extend to the osseous texture, and cannot be cured without removal of the exposed part. In the two latter examples the most casual observer, who is acquainted with the nature of diseases of the bones, will speedily perceive the cause which obstructs the cure, but he may possibly overlook the real nature of the deep-seated disease. In the ulcer the carious or necrosed portion of bone may be perceptible to the eye; and, at all events, here, as in the superficial abscess, the probe will immediately indi- cate the condition of the bone: not so, however, in the deep-seated affection; for often in such cases the matter makes its way from the interior, through such a narrow orifice, that the probe does not readily pass into it, and unless the surgeon has some suspicion of the real nature of the disease, he may actually overlook the presence of extensive caries or necrosis of the cancellated structure. It has often appeared to me, that the value of the cases of this kind re- lated by Mr. Hey, has never been sufficiently appreciated by the generality of practitioners. I have myself met with various instances of the kind, and have experienced the most happy results from pursuing a practice similar to that recommended by this most valuable autho- rity. Some years ago I was consulted by a young gentleman about a small ulcer in the skin over the upper third of the tibia, which had for three years resisted all modes of cure. Originally a small abscess had formed in the part ; ever since which he had experienced con- siderable pain in the vicinity, and this with the continued discharge from the orifice had at last seriously affected his health. With the