THE CHEST, ABDOMEN, AND PELVIS. 556 tures which bleed most are more susceptible of a rapid cure than others. An old, hard, tight, and callous stricture seldom bleeds on the applica- tion of any moderate force; but when the converse obtains the weight of the hand alone on the instrument will cause hemorrhage, and in such a case, provided the bougie or catheter be properly used, the obstruction is commonly overcome with comparative facility, and when an instru- ment of tolerable size (number six or seven) can be introduced, the operation is usually accomplished without further trouble from bleed- ing. In thus treating of hemorrhage more lightly than some may deem correct, I beg it to be understood, that I by no means sanction any unnecessary rudeness ; there is a certain amount of force and energy which may legitimately be resorted to on these occasions by one well acquainted with the course of the canal, and well practised in the use of instruments ; but the young surgeon can commit no greater error in the treatment of these cases than to suppose that a heavy, stiff hand and violent force will compensate for that skill and tact which can only be acquired in the course of years by experience in the dissecting-room and on the living subject. CHAPTER VIII. STONE IN THE BLADDER. TREATMENT. SOLUTION. LITHOTRITY. LITHOTOMY. The symptons of stone in the bladder are usually very unequivocal: frequent calls to make water, sudden stoppage of the stream, pain after evacuation, in the neck of the viscus and at the glans penis, irritation in the region of the bladder, in the perineum, anus, and rectum, occasional discharge of ropy mucus, blood, lymph, or pus, all afford the strongest presumptive evidence as to the presence of a calcu- lus ; yet most or all of these may be more or less conspicuous and none be present, while in other instances the symptoms may never have been such as to excite suspicion. The only certain test of this disease is afforded by the sound —an instrument which in most respects re- sembles the ordinary steel bougie, and which may be used in the following manner:—The patient being laid as in the proceeding for catheterism, the sound must be introduced in much the same manner, and when it has entered the bladder its point must be gently moved about in all directions until it strikes the concretion, when the sensa- tion on the part of the surgeon will be such, that he can scarcely err, and in addition, in most instances, the sound of the concussion is sufficiently distinct to be heard by those in the immediate vicinity. If the stone is not touched at once, a change in the patient’s atti- tude may alter its position: thus, if he turns slightly to one side