LIGATURE OF ARTERIES. 309 ticus muscles: a vein will be perceived on each side, and the nerve nearer the fibula. Even within four inches of the ankle the soleus may be found covering the vessel, and higher up it is almost cer- tain to do so : the muscle being irregular in this respect, the ope- rator may be prepared to meet with some of its fibres in the lower third of the leg ; but, however easy it may be on the dead subject to expose the vessel by cutting through this muscle, the operation may be found somewhat more difficult on the living body. A good ana- tomist can have little trouble in making an incision of three inches in length, parallel with the vessel, and half an inch behind the margin of the tibia, dividing skin, superficial aponeurosis, soleus, and deep fascia, so as to get upon the vessel as it lies on the deep layer of muscles : all this he may do with ease on the subject; but to accom- plish such proceedings on the living body, he must be a cool and dex- terous operator, and one not likely to be annoyed at the continued oozing of blood from the bottom of the wound, nor likely to be scared either by the deep gap in the limb, the pain to which his patient will in all likelihood be subjected, or the tediousness of the operation. Instead of dividing any part of the soleus near to the tibia, by making the wound in the skin so close to this bone as has been directed, and thereby avoiding the gastrocnemius muscle, it has been recommended to search for the vessel through a wound made nearly in the middle of the calf. In a thin subject, by cutting in the upper third of the leg, midway between the fibula and inner margin of the tibia, dividing the skin for four inches, also the inner heads of the gastrocnemius and soleus muscles, with the fascia;, superficial and deep, the vessel may be exposed; but I should certainly not feel in- clined to attempt such an operation on the living body, even though it be sanctioned by such a high authority as that of Mr. Guthrie. In an instance of extravasation of blood, or aneurism from a wound, an attempt might be made to get at the vessel through free superficial incisions; but it appears to me that all stated above regarding the operation on the inner side of the limb is equally, indeed even more, applicable here; I cannot, therefore, recommend such proceedings; and if a vessel must be tied so high up, probably the safety of the patient, and his ultimate comfort, will be best secured by ligature of the superficial femoral artery. The peroneal artery can scarcely be imagined to be the scat of spon- taneous aneurism; and it lies so deep, and so protected by the fibula, that a wound in it must be of rare occurrence. The vessel may be reached through an incision, three inches long, and parallel with the posterior border of the bone. If the wound be made about the mid- dle of the leg, some portion of the soleus must be divided, and the flexor longus pollicis may either be turned towards the fibula, or its fibres may also be cut across : on the dead subject, the latter may usually be preferred. The vessel is often so small, that I have again and again seen it missed in dissecting-room operations. If the inci- sions are made higher up, possibly some fibres of the outer head of the