THE HEAD AND NECK. 482 If the tumour is solid throughout, the whole mass must, if possible, be included in these sections ; or if any part remains, it must be cut away with the forceps or gouge. Sometimes swellings of consider- able size form in the alveoli here, which contain fluid of a serous character: if, therefore, there is any reason to suspect one of this kind, it might be advisable, as a preliminary step, to puncture it through the gums with a knife or trochar, and should the disease prove so, it may be possible to cut away a portion of the anterior wall of the cyst without interfering with the lips at all. I have seen one instance where this might have been advantageously done. The nature of the tumour was mistaken, however, and only discovered during the steps of the operation after the external incision had been effected. In this instance the crown of an incisor tooth was found in the upper and back part of the cyst, a circumstance which I have twice observed in such operations on the adult living body. Were a cavity laid open in the manner above referred to, the future treat- ment should be conducted in the manner already described for similar cases in the lower jaw. In puncturing a tumour it is possible that but little resistance might be offered to the progress of the instrument after the outer shell had been perforated, but it would be wrong to conclude on that account that it was a cyst: it might be a soft gelatinous mass, or one of a medullary character,—in the gum, alveoli, or possibly from within the antrum, and in such cases there need be no hesitation about the pro- priety of removing the entire disease, supposing it to be within reason- able reach. The size of the tumour may from the first make it apparent that more extensive incisions than those yet described will be required. The swelling may not only protrude in front, but it may be observable in the mouth and in the nostril, and by the elevation and protrusion of the eyeball it maybe apparent that it also extends upwards: there will in many instances be difficulty in appreciating the extent of the disease backwards, whilst in others there can be none in perceiving that it protrudes into the posterior nares and occupies the upper part of the pharynx. It will often be a nice question to determine in how far the tumours are malignant or otherwise, and even when such a conclusion is drawn, the further question as to the extent of their sur- rounding attachments may demand serious consideration. As to certain of these features the reader is referred to the chapter on tumours; but there are many circumstances connected with the growths under consideration which demand some separate considera- tion here. Most of such cases seem to have their origin in or imme- diately about the antrum, and when the growth is actually within, the cavity will, in all probability, be filled ere there are any external symptoms, and when therefore it does protnide in any ot these di- rections in which it is first most readily detected, the chances are, that it will also have encroached more or less on the posterior pa- rietes. But it is often difficult to ascertain the exact origin of the