436 CHAPTER VI. OPERATIONS ON EYELIDS, ORBIT, AND EYEBALL. Incisions may be required in the eyelids, and certain operations upon them are sometimes necessary. Some of these may be performed in the dissecting-room, and the nature of most of them may be appre- ciated by an examination of these parts on the dead subject. In- flammation in the eyelids usually causes great tumefaction, and occa- sionally lancet punctures, as in the case of erysipelas, are required ; but these need no particular comment here. Sometimes freer inci- sions are necessary to permit the escape of matter, as abscess not unfrequently follows the latter affection. In such cases the lancet or knife should be carried in a horizontal direction, as the cicatrix will thus be less observable in the transverse wrinkles of the skin. Various little operations are required in these parts on the living body which may be practised on the dead subject. For instance, a surgeon may be asked to extract one or more of the eyelashes in the case of trichiasis, and for this purpose each offending hair must be seized with well-pointed forceps (p. 7) and extracted by the root. Should others grow, or should the margin of the eyelid prove a source of irritation to the surface of the ball, and in the event of the latter condition (resulting probably from chronic inflammation, ulceration, and suppuration of the parts, or from diseased secretion of the Mei- bomian follicles) resisting the ordinary soothing, or stimulating treat- ment generally resorted to in such cases, then it may be deemed advisable to remove a small slip of the diseased part with the knife or scissors. Perhaps the latter instrument will be found most convenient in this situation where the textures, from their mobility and slenderness, offer little resistance to the edge of the knife. It occasionally happens when some of these affections of the ciliary margins heal spontane- ously, that the aperture of the eyelids is so much diminished in size that the knife is required to open up the unnatural adhesions, but no particular directions for such a proceeding seem necessary. In some instances the cilire are completely inverted (entropium) and the whole of them thus excite inflammation of the surface of the eyeball. This condition occasionally results from acute ophthalmia, and is remedied by those means which are of service in the latter affection; but sometimes it is present independent of this disease (excepting in so far as it itself excites the mucous surface), and then it seems to depend cither upon a contracted state of the margin of the lid or of the edge of the orbicular muscle, or from a relaxed condition of the skin. Whether the latter is the cause or not, the entropium is easily remedied, as a last resource, by tightening the skin in this way : A horizontal slip of it should be cut away with scissors: then the edges should be brought into contact with stitches, and thus the eyelashes are turned