388 THE HEAD AND NECK. Letter c on figure 196 points out the line of incision for the exter- nal wound. It should commence nearly over the inner margin of the left stemo-mastoid muscle, and extend outwards in a slightly lunated direction, about three-fourths of an inch above the clavicle, for three inches or more. The skin, platysma myoides, and fascia, should be divided as in the operation last described : then the sternal portion of the right mastoid should be cut after having passed a director or the point of the finger under it: next the stemo-hyoid and stemo-thyroid should be divided in the same cautious manner, and then the vessel should be looked for in the loose cellular tissue in this situation. The point of the knife should be used as little as possible, and its handle will probably be found sufficient for the greater part of this stage of the business. It may happen, as I have twice seen on the living sub- ject, that the carotid artery comesfirst into view, and care must therefore be taken that no mistake occurs. This is not by any means probable ; but as soon as the one vessel is recognized the operator will know that the other is not far distant. The carotid (supposing it to be thus first exposed) may be followed down to the innominata, and then the subclavian may be traced from this last-named vessel. In thus pursuing the course of the carotid, the cellular tissue should be separated only to such an extent as to permit the recognisance of the vessel. It will be better, however, if this vessel can be left alone; and, there- fore, whether it is seen or not the surgeon should keep close to that part of the wound immediately behind and above the inner end of the clavicle : by careful separation of the cellular membrane, he must come upon the artery, at a distance from the innominata of three-fourths of an inch perhaps, when the needle and thread should be passed from below upwards, with the same care and precaution as has already been recommended for the operation on the acromial side of the scaleni. If the circumstances are favourable, and the operator is an expert anatomist, the ligature may be applied without any important part, excepting the vessel, having been observed. Possibly, however, besides the glimpse of the carotid already alluded to, he may perceive the par vagum, some branches of the sympathetic, the internal jugular, perhaps the vena innominata, and even the upper surface of the pleura. Some of the twigs of the sympathetic must of necessity, I imagine, be cut, and the par vagum can scarcely be avoided :—indeed, if that nerve is perceived, it will be a good guide to the artery, for by tracing it down the latter is certain to be reached. If this course is followed, however, the nerve should be fingered and touched with instruments as little as possible, for there is good reason to suppose that (physically or functionally) it may be seriously affected by such injuries. On all occasions it will be necessary to avoid including this nerve or the recurrent in the ligature, and only by great caution can such a serious evil be prevented. The internal jugular is certainly less in the way than the par vagum,—it will be on the outer side of the ligature, but yet so near, that too much caution cannot be