THE CHEST, ABDOMEN, AND PELVIS. .508 Fin. 238. presented a little to the left side of the urethra. This being slowly and cautiously done, as with the catheter, in the manner already de- scribed, the instrument should be made to strike the stone, and should then be given in charge of an assistant. Next the patient should be secured thus:—A piece of broad worsted tape about three yards long should be doubled, and fonned into a loop in this fashion (fig. 238), which should then be fastened on one of the patient’s wrists; and next, he being desired to grasp the outer margin of the foot, the two ends should be so twisted round each hand and foot as to bind them firmly together. A similar manoeuvre should be executed at the same time on the other side, and thus the patient will be securely bound, hand and foot, al- though two assistants will be required, one at each knee, to hold the thighs properly apart, and others may also be of service to keep him steady. The breech should now be brought to the margin of the table and the assistant, who has charge of the staff, should be desired to hold that instrument in his left hand, nearly perpendicular, with the concavity of the curve resting on the upper part of the triangular ligament, and to draw the scrotum slightly upwards, and a little to the right side, with his right hand, while he stands on the pa- tient’s right side. Then the surgeon should seat himself in front of the perineum, having previously arranged with an assistant about having the instruments handed to him, or having already arranged them properly on a chair at his side ; now it may be well to pass the forefinger of the left hand, well oiled, into the rectum, to ascertain the size of the prostate (if that has not been done previously), and also the depth of this organ from the surface; next, having withdrawn his finger, he should trace the course of the rami of the pubes and ischium on the left side, ascertain the position of the tuberosity of the latter bone on each side, and having scanned the whole surface, he should proceed to use the knife (fig. 239), which he should hold much in the manner of Fuj. 239.