171 DISLOCATIONS OF THE CLAVICLE. rence, which I imagine must happen hut rarely. Loss of power in the deltoid is not, however, a common sequence of simple luxations. Compound dislocation of the shoulder is rarely met with in practice. The extensive and perhaps complete separation of the soft parts from the head of the hone will permit most speedy and simple reduction ; hut in some examples the injury may seem so great, that, instead of attempting to save the arm, it will he better to amputate at the joint. I do not suppose that it can ever he requisite to remove a portion of the humerus to facilitate reduction: were such a question mooted, I should most incline to enlarge the wound in the integuments. Were the head of the bone injured at the same time, excision might then he the best practice, provided it was still determined to give the limb a chance. I have seen one example of compound luxation of this joint. It was occasioned by the spoke of a large water-wheel, which, in re- volving, came in contact with the arm, caused a large rent through the deltoid and skin, and thrust the end of the humerus prominently outwards. The patient, though stunned, was not seriously injured else- where ; yet it was thought advisable to amputate. The state of shock continued for several hours ; and the operation, partly on this account, and also to give time to procure instruments, was delayed till next morning. Meanwhile the head of the hone was replaced, which was easily done, and the edges of the wound were brought together. When the surgeons met again, the man seemed in such a favourable state, and the parts looked so well, that it was wisely resolved not to use the knife. The wound closed without a bad symptom, a slight synovial discharge continued for about three weeks, and some months after I saw this individual in excellent health, and already able to make a tolerable use of the injured arm. I feel that I ought not to quit the subject of luxations of the shoulder-joint without referring the reader to the late edition of the well-known work of Sir Astley Cooper, which has just been issued under the valuable superintendence of Mr. Bransby Cooper, and which, in the present state of our knowledge, leaves but a narrow field for further observation. Dislocation of the clavicle may occur either at one extremity or the other. When at the outer end, a projection may be felt and seen on the upper surface of the acromion process. The displacement, in ordinary cases, is seldom to any great extent, the ligaments between the clavicle and coracoid process apparently preventing it. I have known this injury mistaken for dislocation of the shoulder. The sternal extremity may be thrown either in front of the upper part of the sternum, or, in other cases, somewhat backwards and upwards.- Such accidents upon the whole are of rare occurrence, as the force likely to occasion them is more generally productive of fracture of this bone. In the luxation of the outer extremity, which is more fre- quent of the two, and exhibited in the following figure (78), an attempt may be made to keep the end of the bone in its proper position by means of a pad in the axilla, and bandages round the shoulder and