THE HEAD AND NECK. 412 removing a portion of this gland about the size of an orange, and applying forty-seven ligatures, lost his patient fifty-six hours after- wards. In some young subjects the frequent use of leeches and of iodine may check this disease, or actually cause its disappearance. I have seen several examples of the kind; but such cases are few in number compared with the numerous instances where these and other means fail. Ligature of the enlarged arteries has occasionally been per- formed ; but the success does not seem to have been such as to induce frequent repetition of the practice: Sir William Blizard put it into execution, Walther, Coates, and others, have tried its efficacy, and Professor Chelius of Heidelberg has related two cases in which deligation of the superior thyroids was successful. Although the dis- ease abounds in Scotland, I have seen no interference with it (ex- cepting in the case above referred to) otherwise than by the ordinary means which are supposed to have a restraining effect on the growth of tumours, and in them, as may be gathered from my general re- marks on such matters in the chapter devoted to the subject, I have but little confidence. The present, however, is an example where I should be inclined to persist in their use, as the disease is not such as should be .at once removed with the knife, nor indeed, should any attempt of the kind ever be made excepting under peculiar and urgent symptoms. The next most frequent kinds of tumours are, probably, connected with the lymphatic glands. These may form in any part of the neck, may be superficial or deep, not larger than a garden pea or equal in size to the patient’s head ; they may be of the simple sarcomatous character (perhaps the most common of all) or present the features of scirrhus, medullary sarcoma, or other species usually enumerated in classifications of such diseases. The glands in the neck are remark- ably subject to strumous affections ; cysts occasionally form in them, and fatty deposits in the subcutaneous cellular tissue are by no means uncommon. Although goitre is frequently seen in those who possess the scrofulous diathesis, it but rarely shows its peculiar cha- racters in the thyroid gland; and the parotid, submaxillary, and sublingual, I feel assured are rarely the scat of actual enlargement of any kind. Twenty years ago it was more the custom to speak of tumours of the parotid than it is in the present day, and for my own part I cannot say that I have seen a single unequivocal case of the kind. I have seen many swellings in the seat of the parotid, and have removed many with my own hands, but have invariably noticed that these were, to all appearance, developed in a lymphatic gland ; when small, the parotid was slightly compressed, or perhaps turned aside ; and when large, most of it had disappeared. The diagnosis of tumours in the neck is often difficult, and the most skilful surgeon will occasionally be uncertain as to the propriety of attempting their removal with the knife. Aneurisms in the neck are seldom difficult to detect: Allan Burns and Sir Astley Cooper