THE CHEST, ABDOMEN, AND PELVIS. 494 these cases; hut neither the example in which he did so, nor several treated in the same way by Mr. Tyrrell and others, did well. The analogy between such injuries and those of the head where there is depression of bone, though in some respects close, is widely different in others; thus there may be extensive depression on one side of the cranium without any such condition on the other; but in the spine, when the column is broken, the irregularity will probably be as much on one side of the canal as on the other, consequently, pressure on the spinal cord may just be as great and as destructive in front as be- hind. However, it is possible to imagine an instance where a lamina is driven in without the body of the vertebra being affected, and, as the case may be in any way almost hopeless, it might be deemed advis- able to give the patient the advantage of this poor chance. In dissecting the muscles of the back, it will be perceived that there cannot possibly be any difficulty in dividing, by subcutaneous inci- sion, ahnost any which the anatomist may desire to reach. Within these three years, it has been proposed to divide one or all of these on one side of the spinal column in cases of lateral curvature. M. Guerin has been the most zealous advocate for this practice, and it has been performed by him and others in a variety of instances, on the supposi- tion that there is an analogy between this condition and that of club- foot. I have had no experience of such a method of treatment, and from all I have seen on the dead and living body, feel strongly preju- diced against it as a general practice. The more rational mode of endeavouring to improve the vigour of the patient’s frame (supposing her to be a miss of nine, twelve, or fifteen years of age) by local fric- tion, change of air, habits, and diet, and also of giving the spine an opportunity of resuming its natural symmetry and elasticity by taking off the weight from above,—which can only be properly done whilst the body is in a horizontal posture,— seems to me infinitely to be pre- ferred to the method alluded to. Occasionally the surgeon is required to make an opening through the walls of the chest to permit the escape of fluid. This is sometimes deemed necessary in extensive accumulation in hydrothorax, at other times for empyema, where the pus fills the greater part of the cavity of the pleura, or probably occupies only one portion of the side of the chest. In hydrothorax, the operation (paracentesis thoracis, as it is called) may de done thus: The patient being placed on the margin of a bed or table, and leaning slightly over on the sound side, the surgeon should select the seventh or eighth rib a little in front of the angle, and should then draw the skin upwards, and bring what was formerly opposite the lower margin on a level with the upper; next, with a scalpel, he should make an incision about an inch and a half long, through the skin, cellular texture, external and internal intercostals, until he reaches the pleura, which he should open by a small puncture with the point of the knife, or, if he chooses, with a trochar. When the fluid is evacuated, the skin being let go will slip over the internal orifice