92 HEMORRHAGE. with a catch may be used, or even ligatures may be applied. In the latter case the threads may be drawn with such a tightness only as to prevent the blood from flowing, as it is deemed by some the best plan to remove them, as soon as the chief part of the operation has been accomplished. In some cases the surgeon finds it necessary to allow the ligatures to remain, or to replace them, in the event of the hemor- rhage continuing ; but this measure should not be resorted to, unless the bleeding cannot be restrained otherwise. It must be remembered that, in this situation, the hemorrhage may be equally troublesome, from either end of the vein; and on the external jugular, for example, a ligature may be required both on the upper and lower side of the wound. Venous hemorrhage during amputation, is commonly most conspi- cuous when the fingers are used instead of the tourniquet, to arrest the circulation ; as the main vessels are then alone compressed, the smaller arteries, given off above, convey a large quantity of blood to the part of the limb below the pressure, and it is apt to run from the corresponding veins into the lower part of the larger tubes, and so escape through their divided extremities. The valves in the veins in a great measure prevent this; yet it often happens; but it usually ceases as soon as the fingers are removed. Sometimes it is not desirable to raise the fingers until the large arteries have been secured with liga- tures ; and in such a case, whilst they are being applied, the best manner of proceeding is for an assistant to place the point of his finger over the bleeding orifice. At the shoulder, in the leg immedi- ately below the knee, and above the middle of the thigh, the large veins are apt to be troublesome, during the taking up of the arteries; but I have seldom known an instance where the bleeding did not cease when all pressure was taken off above, and when the flaps were approximated and the stump laid in a proper position. In some in- stances, as in removing the great toe with its metatarsal bone, I have found it difficult to secure the bleeding arteries in the usual manner; and in consequence of. the hemorrhage appearing partly venous, I have stuffed the wound with lint, and applied a bandage over all with good effect; but this course prevents union by the first intention, and should not, therefore, be resorted to unless the necessity be urgent. In amputations and in all other operations involving the division of veins, it is seldom requisite to apply more than moderate pressure to stop the flow of blood from the divided ends. Formerly it was the custom to secure the vein and artery in the same ligature, but such a plan is now obsolete, excepting in rare cases, when the surgeon can scarcely do otherwise. For the last twenty or thirty years he has, in securing the main artery of a limb, taken especial care to exclude the accompanying vein, and assuredly this general practice, for many good reasons, should never be deviated from ; for, although I consider that recent experience in the treatment of varicose veins, as well as many common occurrences in surgery, go far to show that