CHEST, ABDOMEN, AND PELVIS. 546 The bladder may be evacuated through a wound in the perineum similar to that for lithotomy, afterwards described, or the incision may be conducted between the bulb of the urethra and anterior verge of the anus, or it may be thus:—A curved trochar or canula, about seven inches long, should be introduced into the rectum on the concavity of the fore-finger of the right hand, the point of which should be placed on the triangular space, already referred to, behind the prostate gland ; then the point of the trochar, which will probably have been concealed (withdrawn) in the canula, should be forced through the tunics of the rectum and bladder, and the end of the canula being continued in the same course, the former may be withdrawn, when the urine will flow through the tube. The latter must then be removed, and the fluid allowed to find its own way in future, or perhaps a small flexible ca- theter may be carried into the bladder through the interior of the canula as it is taken away. The catheter may, however, afterwards be found inconvenient in the anus. If the bladder be at all dilatable, the triangular space will be consi- berably larger than in the natural condition of the organ, — the vasa deferentia will be further apart,—the peritoneum higher; nevertheless the proximity of these structures should be remembered, and, to avoid them, the point of the trochar should be kept about the middle of the space. If the prostate is large, as it usually is in such examples, the puncture should be made close behind,—nay, it had better be made through it, than that the peritoneum should be endangered; for al- though the seminal ducts, or a vesicula, might thus be injured, that is of little consequence in comparison with puncture of the peritoneum, which would in all probability occasion the death of the patient. It will be observed that, in any of the last three modes referred to, the urethra is left in the same condition as that which has given rise to the necessity for puncture. Possibly it may still continue imper- vious, and the urine will therefore continue to drain away through the artificial aperture. Under such an anticipation the operation above the pubes has been preferred by some, on the score that the discharge of urine may be in some measure regulated by the flexible catheter; but it really seems doubtful whether this condition, or that in which the urine collects in the lower part of the rectum and is discharged per anum, is the least troublesome. Puncture by the rectum seems to have been most generally per- formed ; but, for my own part, I should prefer the mode of forcing a passage as nearly in the original course (if not altogether so) as I could possibly manage. Doubtless with much patience, caution, and skill, one surgeon will introduce a catheter where another has failed, and often he himself will at last succeed when he has probably been in despair: in some instances the natural tube will have been opened, but the instrument will very often have been thrust in a devious course, — sometimes only below the mucous membrane, at others through the prostate,—even through the tunics of the bladder be- yond the limits of this gland. I have seen five different passages in