CHEST, ABDOMEN, AND PEI.VIS. .506 taken in meddling with the upper and anterior part of the muscle not to interfere with the fascia which lines it. With some cautious dis- section, the muscular fibres of the rectum, the neck of the bladder, and prostate gland, will be displayed by raising a pretty dense layer of cel- lular substance interspersed with fat: the membranous portion of the urethra, with the muscular fibres (Wilson’s) surrounding it, the trian- gular ligament, with the urethra passing through it, the bulb in front, and Cowper’s glands behind, may all be exposed, and behind and be- low the prostate the vesicula seminalis may be divested of its tough cellular investment, while a little further back, and somewhat higher, the ureter and vas deferens may be exposed. The finger should now be slid down between the bladder and rectum, and the extent of the peritoneum in this situation most care- fully noted, with reference to its attachments to both. Now the rec- tum should be separated from the neck of the bladder in the manner described on the preceding page, and the triangular space, bounded by the vas deferens on each side, the peritoneum behind, and the prostate at the apex, can be examined. The attachment of the pelvic fascia to the prostate and neck of the bladder may next be looked to. If the membrane be seized between the fingers, and drawn to one side, it will be observed to be firmly attached to the prostate about its middle height, more of that body, however, being visible below than above. The fascia may here be noticed to spb't into two, one layer—the more distinct of the two— passing upwards, backwards to the neck of the bladder, and forwards to the symphysis, the others passing downwards to the under part of the gland, and also to the vesicula. It is by no means difficult to trace from this layer a slip which passes to the side of the rectum, and which may be considered different from the cellular substance already removed from this situation. As yet the dissection will have been conducted entirely on the left side: if the bladder be now stripped from the right os innominatum, and the fingers be passed down in the space between them, it will be seen how complete the partition is which it forms between the upper and lower part of the pelvis. This point will be referred to after- wards in regard to lithotomy. The bladder may now be more fully distended with air than hi- therto, when, as it rises above the pubes, the extent of surface unco- vered by peritoneum may be observed. The anterior ligament of the penis should now be separated from the symphysis, and the crura should be dissected from the rami of the pubes; then the con- nexions of the bladder to the bones, the ligament under the angle of the pubes, and any other attachment still remaining should be cut through, when the bladder with the urethra and penis, and the rectum, niay be removed from the pelvis. . . The rectum should now be separated from the bladder, and ere it is thrown aside, should be cut open, when the appearance of the mucous membrane, with its various folds and projections, should be noticed.