44 COUNTER-IRRITANTS. imagine that we need be less nice about the feelings of patients in hos- pitals than of those in private practice; but with reference to the cautery, I see no reason why this should be so; and as it will seldom happen that a person, \vhatever his circumstances in life may be, will antici- pate with calmness the idea of the contact of heated iron, and will not prefer what he is led to consider a milder and less painful application, the opportunities for using it are probably not so often met with as its utility deserves. The effect which the seeming cruelty has upon the neighbouring patients in a hospital, and the character for rudeness which the surgeon who persists in using it frequently may acquire, often cause it to be dispensed with, even among its most strenuous advocates ; yet one cannot but hold in contempt that so-called “ amia- ble sensitiveness” of the practitioner, who, whilst he objects to the application of the heated iron, because it is used upon horses, and because, too, it is a coarse, vulgar, and seemingly unscientific remedy, will practise a wilful imposition by means of caustics, which do their work after he has left the house, but certainly wiffi a greater amount of pain. Such a person is one of those “ amiable ” beings, too, who will open an abscess by the repeated application of the caustic potash, because, forsooth ! the use of a knife is a painful expedient, although, in reality, the pain of the latter, however acute it may be, is probably not greater at any moment, nor does it continue for a hundredth part of the time that the other lasts. Various shapes and sizes of cautery will be found of service. Thus, if it be desired to touch merely a small point,—as the orifice of a bleed- ing vessel, a bit of wire will suffice, or there may be a small bulb at the end of a fine rod of iron ; but when a Large surface requires to be seared, a ball of metal the size of a boy’s marble or of a walnut may be necessary. Sometimes a large flat surface is best, whilst on other occasions a narrow edge may be thought most desirable. In certain hemorrhages, as when a vessel has run in a bone, I have seen the cautery effectual ; but I confess that I do not admire its use in cases where it is intended to burn out diseases which are beyond the reach of the knife. In malignant tumours of the jaws, for example, the custom has been but too prevalent of cutting away the bulk of the disease, and'trusting to the destructive powers of the cautery, to eradicate the remaining portions. Whenever I have seen this done, no benefit has resulted ; and although I do not deny the efficacy of the plan in some instances, I should be very unwilling to undertake an operation with such uncertain means of execution. I used at one time to apply it to carious surfaces; but have now abandoned it for the more efficient and more controllable means with the knife, forceps, saw, and gouge, to be particularly described in after parts of this work. The use of the cautery to promote the contraction of sinuses, fis- tulas, and other abnormal orifices, I strongly recommend, and 1 place great reliance upon it as a counter-irritant. Instead of applying a ball or single mass of iron, so as to cause a