DISLOCATION’S OF THE KNEE. 263 recovery may reasonably be anticipated. The utmost care, however, will be required to avert injurious inflammation, which may, never- theless supervene and terminate, as I have seen, in the loss of the limb or death of the patient. Indeed, when we consider the extent of injury, even in what is called a simple dislocation, and the dan- gerous nature of inflammation of this joint,—a process which must inevitably result from the accident, the question of immediate amputa- tion may be very seriously entertained ; and in most examples of com- pound dislocation, I think there can be little doubt that the safety of the patient is endangered by delay : the alternative is dreadful; but in my opinion, amputation is the least formidable of the two. Even in some instances of compound luxation of the knee, it may be reason- able to attempt to save the limb; and in partial displacements with no external injuries, a judicious surgeon would not for an instant entertain the idea of mutilating the body, until, in the progress of the case, cir- cumstances should arise to compel him to adopt this last resource. Some years ago, I was consulted in a case of partial dislocation of this joint, which had occurred simultaneously with a fracture in the lower end of the femur. At first the injury was treated merely as fracture; in about six weeks, when the splints were removed, and the swelling had greatly subsided, the knee was observed to be remarkably stiff, and, for the first time, the inner margin of the head of the tibia was felt to project half an inch within the level of the corresponding con- dyle of the femur. Figure 143 shows such a displacement, although here the tibia projects a little more than in the case alluded to. I deemed it too late to attempt the reposition of the bones, but noticed in the course of time that the patient regained a fair use of the joint. In some instances suspicions have been entertained, that pain and difficulty in moving the knee, accompanied with the feeling of some- thing being between the bones, have been occasioned by displacement of one of the semilunar cartilages. Such cases have been described by Mr. Hey, Sir A. Cooper, and others; I have myself seen several sup- posed cases of the kind, and have observed an instance in the dissect- ing room, where one of these cartilages had been tom from its con- nexion with the tibia, throughout its whole length with the exception of its extremities, so that during flexion and extension, it occasionally slipped behind the articular surfaces; and this happening during life, as undoubtedly it did, must, at the very least, have caused consider- able annoyance. The cartilage was flattened on its outer margin, and, when it passed behind the condyle of the femur, seemed to tit to the articular surfaces almost as accurately as the internal concavity does in the natural position of the parts. Such a displacement might possi- bly occur in some slight injury or awkward movement of the joint, (indeed, the cases which have been seen in the living body have usually been caused in some such way,) or it might happen with dis- location of the tibia; and, were the surgeon to detect its nature, the most reasonable treatment would consist in first endeavouring to