CHAPTER IV. LIGATURE OF ARTERIES. The arteries of the hand, already examined, are liable to injury, and the aid of the surgeon is generally necessary to suppress the hemor- rhage. If the ends of the divided vessels can be laid hold of, no doubt the best practice will be to apply ligatures around them. The surgeon, however, has not always this in his power, and he must, therefore, suit his measures to the circumstances of the case. Thus in a wound of the palm of the hand, where it may not be practicable, with propriety, to search for the bleeding vessel, the chief artery leading to the seat of injury should be secured. In an instance of wound between the fore- finger and thumb, the radial artery must first be tied, and this opera- tion may be done in any part of the course of the vessel. Though it may be readily got between the first and second extensor of the thumb in the dead subject, by making an incision between them about an inch in length, over the trapezium, and nearly parallel with the long axis of the radius, the swelling of the parts may be so great as to preclude such an operation, or, at all events, to render it more painful and tedious than the occasion demands. The radial must then be sought for a little higher up: indeed, under most cir- cumstances, I would recommend that the vessel should be at once exposed in the front of the fore-arm. The most eligible part for securing it in this situation will be about three inches above the wrist, where the pulsations of the vessel can be readily felt through the skin. The fore-arm being placed in a supine position, on a firm table, an incision should be made through the skin, two inches in length, about half an inch on the radial margin of the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis, and the vessel will be speedily exposed, after the division of the aponeurosis and the separation of a little cellular texture in close contact. Should it not be convenient to operate so low down, the vessel may be secured in the space between the su- pinator longus and the pronator teres: an incision of the length above recommended, or perhaps a little longer, should be made, and in both ..instances two small veins will be found in contact with the artery. The ulnar artery, should the wound be on the ulnar side of the hand, should first be tied, or it may be necessary to secure it after ligature of the radial. The situation of the wound, as well as a little pressure on the main artery leading towards it may give an idea which vessel it will be best to secure. If the ulnar is to be operated on, the best part for securing it is about two inches above