391 LIGATURE OF ARTERIES. tion it may well be deemed a serious question whether it should again be attempted. For my own part, I should do it with great reluct- ance. Brasdor’s operation has been talked of here, and a surgeon could not be blamed for performing it; but we have little to hope for from such a proceeding either; and under the circumstances I believe that a surgeon might be fully justified in amputating at the shoulder- joint, treating the stump in the ordinary manner, and keeping up steady and properly regulated pressure on the disease. This seems a shocking alternative,—nay, it is so; but it must be remembered that death is almost the certain result in any other way ; and if there was a chance of life being preserved by such a sacrifice, it would be the duty of the surgeon to urge it. It is known that amputation at the shoulder-joint is generally a very successful operation : as far as this wound is concerned, then, there might be little to apprehend, but the effect on the tumour is not so easily foretold. Ligature of the axillary artery on the face of the stump might here be reckoned like Brasdor’s operation,—yet there is a vast difference, for in the latter case the same amount of blood which previously passed towards the upper ex- tremity would still find its way down, and probably part of it would ran through the sac; whereas, were the member removed, as the same quantity would no longer be required in this direction, the tumour might possibly be much more under the control of pressure. The value of such a suggestion remains yet to be tested, however, and it would be futile to reason upon it at present. It might ' be a judicious venture first to tie the axillary or subclavian under the clavicle, and then if it were found that the aneurism still increased, amputation might be performed, either immediately before or after the separation of the ligature. I have now seen two instances of aneurism of the subclavian, in both of which ligatures were placed nearer the heart (in one case on the innominata, in the other on the affected vessel) ; and were a case similar to either to occur in my own practice, I should be inclined to follow the method above referred to, for assuredly the event could not be more disheartening than in these two examples. The arteria innominata may be tied in the following manner :—The patient and surgeon should occupy such positions as are recommended for the preceding operations, when an incision should be made between three and four inches in length, commencing over the middle of the upper part of the sternum, one inch or more below its margin, and passing upwards parallel with the inner border of the right sterno- mastoid. The skin, such of the fibres of the platysma myoidcs as are in the line, and the superficial fascia, should all be cut, and when the inner margin of the muscle is exposed the finger or a director should be passed under it, about half an inch from the sternum, and its fibres should be divided : next the cellular tissue should be sepa- rated, being slightly touched with the knife, when the fibres of the sterno-hyoid will be exposed: this muscle, and part or the whole of the sterno-thyroid should then be cut across, opposite the division