GANGRENE. MORTIFICATION. 80 would produce, by giving exit to blood, serum, air, and matter; for in some cases both the latter may be 'present. This last mode of treatment will not arrest the disease in all instances, but it may produce won- derful effects in some. If proper cases for its adoption be selected, such as where there is great swelling and tension, (as in severe forms of erysipelas in which gangrenous inflammation occurs,) I cannot imagine that incisions will at any time do harm. The practice may appear harsh, and so indeed it is ; but it should be remembered that it is ap- plied to save the vitality of a portion of the body, the death of which, whether large or small, may probably involve the life of the patient. An excellent example of the advantages of this kind of practice is afforded in the instance where the urethra gives way behind a stric- ture ; here the urine gets rapidly into the cellular texture of the scrotum: high inflammation succeeds, and, if the surgeon does not interfere properly, gangrene and mortification are the inevitable re- sults. But if a free exit to the urine be allowed, through one or more incisions into the swollen and already perhaps dangerously inflamed parts, the irritating cause is, as it were, removed, and the formidable event is averted, or at any rate more limited in extent; and here, too, it must be observed, that the cause of the disease could be got rid of in no other way. When the vital powers are deficient from external causes, as in the case of frost-bite, these may be gradually restored by judicious means; and in instances arising from the obstruction of a main artery, as after ligature, in which case there may be sudden alternations of tempera- ture, attention to the latter circumstances may be of service. When mortification arises spontaneously, or from some apparent internal cause, over which the surgeon has no control, he cannot ex- pect to avert the disease, but he may, nevertheless, be of service to the sufferer; for here, as in other instances, after sphacelus has actually taken place, he may apply his skill with excellent effect: indeed, it may be truly said, that, in many cases, the efficient treatment only begins after this period. In the early stages, any constitutional treatment, further than what may be required for the particular form of fever present, will have but little influence over the local disease. Instead of the high symptomatic fever, which is usually present in the ordinary kinds of severe local inflammation, there may be a depressed state of the sys- tem, for which stimulants may be highly useful,—as camphor, am- monia, wine, or spirits; and these, if the patient’s stomach will bear them, will seldom prove amiss, after sphacelation has actually taken place. The free use of opium, by itself or combined with calomel, will often be of much service in alleviating the extreme suffering from local pain, which latter is often most distressing to witness, parti- cularly in those instances occurring in advanced years, from disease of the heart or bloodvessels. At one time the Peruvian bark was deemed a specific for most forms of this affection; but so tar as I know, no faith is now placed either in it or quinine, further than as an