THE CHEST, ABDOMEN, AND PELVIS. 554 carried into the bladder. This manoeuvre has been termed the “ tour de maitre,” and used at one time to be more practised than it seems to be at present. It is seldom, indeed, that patients have such a protu- berant belly as to render this attitude absolutely necessary, and while it is impossible to point out any peculiar advantage which the method possesses, it is not difficult to perceive many objections against it. The latest fashion in catheterism is that of introducing the instrument with one hand only : the point is passed into the orifice of the urethra, and then, by hooking the penis into a position similar to that when it is held between the fingers, partly by pushing the catheter onwards, and partly by, in a manner, shaking the organ on to the instrument, its point reaches the triangular membrane, when it can be slid along as in the common method. This proceeding can readily be accom- plished under ordinary circumstances, but it probably requires a little more dexterity than the usual one, over which, when properly per- formed, I am not aware of any real advantage which it possesses. The catheter is by many surgeons used as a bougie in the treatment of stricture, instead of the solid iron rod which is commonly resorted to for the purpose of dilating such contractions. The mode of intro- ducing the latter instrument is in most respects similar to that for the former. Whichever is used for stricture (and in in}7 opinion the choice may be left to the surgeon or patient), a size is selected which will pass the obstruction by gentle pressure; then in the course of two, four, or six days, a larger size is carried along, and so the process is repeated until the urethra is brought to its proper diameter. But a stricture is not always so readily overcome as these remarks might seem to imply, and this will depend on a variety of circumstances,— as its position, its length, its diameter and firmness, the irritability of the canal, the sympathetic effect of each introduction on the bladder and system generally; these, and many others, which need not be particularly alluded to here, may all retard or render the cure a process both of considerable skill and difficulty. A stricture in the perineal portion of the urethra, especially behind the triangular ligament, is almost invariably more troublesome to deal with than in any other site ; one of half an inch, an inch, or of greater length, usually is more obstinate to deal with than when the obstruc- tion is more limited: a narrow one, particularly if it be firm, as is most commonly the case, must require a more frequent use of the dilators, and in some individuals the application of an instrument to the urethra produces so much pain and irritability both at the time and afterwards, that in such parties the final cure may be much re- tarded. There are greater varieties in bougies than in catheters. The curve of the steel bougie is seldom so great (so acute) as in the latter, and occasionally, if the anterior end of the urethra be alone the seat of disease, a short straight rod is all that may be necessary. The point is usually (and always should be in my opinion) a little more conical. Sometimes the steel is plated with silver, which is an excellent method