81 GANRGENE. MORTIFICATION. excellent form of tonic in the latter stages of treatment when the patient is convalescent. When a part of the body has in reality become dead, the first object of local treatment is to promote its separation from the living, a pro- cess which is usual!}’’ performed by nature, by that kind of action which Hunter named Disjunctive Absorption. The more rapidly the separa- tion is effected the better ; for, in general, the stench is most offensive ; thus forming an additional inducement to get rid of the putrid mass. Excepting in particular cases, the surgeon should never attempt to hasten this process by mechanical means. The inexperienced will often wonder why the knife or other cutting instrument is not used on these occasions; but unless it be to divide the skin over a slough of cellular texture, or the soft and hard parts around a dead portion of bone, so as to allow of either being lifted away by the surgeon, or thrown from the surface by nature, such a plan should seldom be resorted to. At first there may be some difficulty in appreciating the extent of the disease ; and, latterly, when its limits have in a manner been defined by the chink, fissure, or line of separation, (“ demarcation ” is the technical word,) which forms between the dead and living tissues, there seems no good reason for interfering with the natural pro- cess, as the after-part of the cure is not expedited thereby. Some- times, when a slough has become very loosely connected to the adja- cent textures, a portion of it may be cut away with scissors, but on no account should the living parts be touched on such occasions. If these be cut, the wound will give pain, and must go through various stages of inflammation, ere it arrives at the condition of the sur- rounding surface, where separation at various points may have pre- viously occurred. Often, I believe, it is best to trust the process al- most entirely to nature, and merely to apply some simple ointment, poultice, or soothing fomentation ; but sometimes there is an advantage in local stimulants, as the disjunctive absorption seems to be accelerated by them. Among the soothing remedies, warm water, warm decoc- tion of poppies, of hemlock, solutions of acetate of lead with or without opium, bread poultices made with one or other of these fluids, the lin- seed poultice, the hemlock poultice, and such like, are usually resorted to; and as stimulants, a vast number of means have been used, varying in quality from the moderate excitement of a mixture of a resinous tincture with water, to the destructive agency of the potential or actual cautery. In general, I imagine, that gentle stimulants only should be used. It ought to be remembered that their influence is intended for the living parts only: if too much excitement is produced by strong stimuli, possibly gangrene may be encouraged, and, at all events, more pain is occasioned by their use than the circumstances warrant. No harm can result from the application of caustics or the heated iron, provided the living parts are not touched by them; the stimulus of their qualities conveyed to these parts, through the medium of the slough, may induce favourable excitement in the living textures; but G