i o o AMPUTATION. 1 tl*> muscles, and all, at one and the same sweep, it will be impossible to cut the bone sufficiently high ; and if the integument be much everted, or actually dissected upwards, as was described by Sir Charles Bell, and then the muscles be cut right down to the bone by a second incision, as was recommended by Sharp, I imagine that there is too great a probability of the covering being formed by skin only; thus giving rise to one of the most valid objections to the circular operation. It has often appeared to me, that there has been an objectionable formality enjoined regarding amputations, which has thrown great difficulty in the way of the young surgeon, who has as yet been un- able to shape his own course from personal experience. Instead of leading him to suppose that one, two, or three circular incisions con- stitute the only correct operation,—instead of wishing him to imagine that in the proceedings above described, he must limit himself to three, or at most four circular sweeps, I should say, that he may, if he sees fit, apply the knife again and again in the same manner. I do not think this necessary, however; and if it be done, the whole of the operation must be considerably retarded. If, nevertheless, such a mode be practised, the rugged surface of the wound, which some have objected to, will be less apparent. I shall have occasion afterwards to advert to the needlessness of dogmatic statements regarding other ope- rations besides amputations, such as about standing on one or other side of the limb, applying the saw, and so forth ; but here I cannot omit alluding to a mode of teaching, which seems to me equally ob- jectionable to that above referred to, which, whilst one good authority inculcates the necessity for the circular mode of operation where two bones are present, another, equally estimable, characterises the pro- ceeding as being “ altogether inadmissible ” in such a situation ; meanwhile the student may-go from hospital to hospital, and see ex- cellent stumps formed by either mode. It is difficult to say, on such an occasion as this, what should be the length of the coverings. Measurements by inches may do very well on the dead subject, or other inanimate material, but they are unsafe to trust to on the living body. The muscles and other textures will retract much more in one person than in another, and a limited length of soft parts, which might make an excellent stump in one limb, might leave the bone projecting in another. As a general rule, it is safe practice to leave the covering rather too long, than what might be deemed the exact and proper length ; but on these points more will be said hereafter, when the individual operations are considered. Whether an amputation is done by flap or circular incision, it is almost the invariable practice among British surgeons of the present day to promote union by the first intention; and for this purpose, as soon as the bleeding has been arrested by the application of ligatures and otherwise, the surfaces of the wound are brought into apposition, and retained thus by means of stitches, straps, and bandages. It is the custom of some to allow several horns to pass, ere the edges or