PART II. OF THE SUPERIOR EXTREMITY. CHAPTER I. DISSECTIONS. One of the fingers may be dissected, and the surgical anatom}’-, as well as the operations, usually performed on each, may thereby be un- derstood. Supposing the dissection to be performed on the middle one, an incision may be made along the middle of its posterior sur- face, from a little above its articulation with the metacarpal bone to the root of the nail, when the skin should be dissected oft' each side, as far as can be conveniently done, with the finger lying oil its palmar surface. The skin will be observed to be thin, and but loosely con- nected by cellular texture with the parts beneath. No vessel or nerve of consequence will be seen. The extensor tendon will now be dis- played, forming a kind of aponeurosis on the surface of the first and second phalanx, ere it is attached to the proximal extremity of the third. On each side of the first phalanx, the tendons of the lumbri- cales and interossei will be seen joining the extensor tendon, and thus strengthening the aponeurosis over this bone. The fibres will be less distinct behind the joints than towards each side ; being observed to diverge a little above and join again below. Over the articulation with the metacarpal bone, the tendon is of a rounded form, and less firmly connected with the parts below than when on the finger. Though the fore and little finger are each supplied with two extensor tendons, the above remarks, in a surgical point of view, apply equally to them. The nail should next be examined : the skin should be dissected off its root, and from each side, to display its attachments: it should then be tom off, so as to ascertain the firmness and display the nature of its connexions. The tendon, or aponeurotic sheath above referred to, may now be dissected off from one side to the other, when the bone, covered with periosteum, will be exposed. A thin layer of cellular membrane will be observed, covering the loose portion of synovial cap- sule constituting the posterior part of each articulation. The anterior surface of the same finger may now be examined. The hand being placed supine, an incision should be made through