HERNIA. OPERATIONS. 51.0 likelihood the structures between the skin and sac will be much at- tenuated. Towards the neck of the sac, however, the textures wrill resemble the natural condition of the abdominal parietes. After the division of the skin, it is customary to raise a little cellular tissue with the forceps, and to cut it by carrying the knife horizontally; a director is then passed into the little opening thus made, and pushed under a thin layer of cellular texture in the direction of the incision through the skin, and the part thus raised is divided by carrying the point of the knife along the groove of the director; by similar proceedings the subjacent structures are incised, until the sac is laid bare ; in some instances the director being used perhaps only once or twice, and in others four or six times, according to the thickness of the parts or the boldness of the operator ; a small aperture should then be made into the sac, by cutting cautiously with the point of the blade ; or if there is any fear of passing so deep as to endanger the contents, the forceps and knife should be used as when the cellular texture has been divided in the previous steps of the operation: a probe pointed bistoury, such as is represented at p. 67, should then be passed into the opening, and carried upwards and downwards, so as to expose the contents. It is not easy in many instances to distinguish between the outside of the sac and the cellular texture over it ; but in general there is no difficulty in perceiving when the sac is opened, partly by the escape of fluid effused from the serous surfaces, as well as by their compara- tive smoothness. In some the fluid is in small quantity, but in others it is to the extent of many ounces, particularly when the hernia is large, and has been for a considerable time in a state of strangulation, and it is commonly of a dark colour. The protruded parts are in general easily recognized, as much by their colour as the smooth- ness of their surface. In some few examples the colour is scarcely different from that of the natural condition, but in most it is of a dark brown, similar to that of chocolate. In some cases the sac of an inguinal hernia is scarcely thicker, if at all, than the peritoneum in its usual state ; but often it is considerably so, both in this respect and in density. In opening the sac, there is no occasion to carry the incision so high as its neck, nor so low as its fundus ; if the tumour be small, this latter step can scarcely be avoided ; but if it be large, the incision should never be carried so far, unless there be something peculiar in the case, such as the adhesion of part of the contents to the surface of the sac, when it may be advisable to use the knife more freely. If the hernia is of recent occurrence, and has protruded in the course of the cord, it may be requisite to pass the point of the finger a considerable way up the canal, before the seat of stricture can be as- certained ; a portion of the tendon of the external oblique may even require to be slit up before the neck of the sac can be examined in a satisfactory manner ; but if the disease has been of long standing, even if the descent has been through the whole canal, the upper or