330 THE INFERIOR EXTREMITY. divided; the saw, forceps, and gouge, must then be used according to circumstances. It will in most instances be requisite to apply the saw, and the forceps will not be so useful here as at the elbow. The dis- eased portion of the femur may be first removed, and then the head of the tibia, as also that of the fibula, should it be involved in the alfection. In using the knife in the posterior part of the joint, more care is required than in cutting deep in the elbow, for in dividing the crucial ligaments there is nothing between the instrument and the po- pliteal vessels but the posterior ligament and some cellular texture ; in applying the saw, too, more care is required ; yet in either proceed- ing I cannot recommend the introduction of a spatula of wood to protect these and other parts, as greater isolation of the bones is thereby produced than the circumstances warrant, for it appears to me that the supposed danger can, by due caution, be avoided. In the dead subject the patella may be removed, and portions of the femur and tibia cut away with the saw, through an opening made in front of the joint by a single transverse incision ; but on the living body the freer incisions above recommended will permit of the whole proceedings being completed in a more satisfactory manner. The patella must in general require to be removed, as it is seldom free from disease in such cases as may be deemed fit for excision ; the operator may, however, look at its articular surface before he detaches it, and should he find it sound, he may use his discretion in leaving it; but in whatever condition the knee may afterwards be left, it may be doubted if this bone will be of much service. There will be no bleeding of consequence ; perhaps not a single articular artery may require to be tied. The wound should be carefully dressed, the margins brought together with stitches, the ends of the bones allowed to be in contact, and the limb should be steadily supported in the extended position by any convenient apparatus ; a M‘Intyre’s splint made straight, would answer well. The dressing and the after-treat- ment must be conducted on the ordinary principles of surgery; and if cicatrization is complete in the course of three or four weeks, or even as many months, and the knee stiff, the surgeon may flatter himself that he has done all which his art permits of. Operations with cutting instruments are rarely required on the shaft of the femur; indeed, unless on the trochanter major, I am not aware of any operation for caries having been done on this bone, with the exception of the few that have been performed at its articular extremities. I have known one instance where the trochanter major was cut down upon and removed with a saw, in consequence of caries, and have seen several where such practice might have been of service. Abscesses occasionally form in the large bursa between this prominence of bone and the tendon of the gluteus maximus, and in some of these cases ulceration and caries come on. To effect the removal of disease in this process, a free crucial incision should be made through the skin and tendon of the gluteus maximus; and when the surface is sufficiently exposed, the gouge should be used to scoop