THE SUPERIOR EXTREMITY. 152 siderable notice in consequence of the trouble frequently attending re- duction, and the occasional impossibility of attaining this object. It is difficult to account for this in a satisfactory manner from any pecu- liarity of the articulation, as evinced in the bones or ligaments. Mr. Hey imagined that this difficulty was occasioned by a kind of wedge- shape in the end of the metacarpal bone, the thickest part of which being thrust between the lateral ligaments, presented such an obstacle to reduction, that, if these remained entire, it was almost impossible to replace the bones. Though I have never been fully satisfied of the correctness of this view, I am not prepared to deny it; and in a some- what similar mode of reasoning, I am inclined to think it not impro- bable, that in some instances the large extremity of the metacarpal bone being driven between the two portions of the flexor brevis, as well as between the lateral ligaments, (which, however, in such a case would doubtless be extensively stretched, or perhaps torn across,) combined with the vast power of the numerous muscles connected with the first phalanx, may be the chief cause of the difficulty expe- rienced in these cases; more particularly when the shortness of the lever which the surgeon has to work with is taken into consideration. I have seen an instance of compound dislocation in this joint, where the end of the metacarpal bone projected through a transverse wound of the textures on its anterior surface, in which the bones could be reduced and displaced at will, twelve hours after the accident, and it seemed to me, that the lateral ligaments were as entire as if there had been no external wound. Anchylosis occurred in this case after severe inflammation and suppuration. In instances of this dislocation where the ordinary means fail, it seems to me very doubtful if such a measure as removing the end of the metacarpal bone through an incision made directly upon it, should be resorted to ; for, although sucli a wound may occasionally heal by the first intention, (as was long ago noticed by Mr. Hey, in referring to some cases occurring in the practice of Mr. Evans of Ketley, who in two instances cut down upon the extremity of the metacarpal bone, and removed it with success,) there would certainly be great risk of its not doing so, and, in such an event, the results to the patient would be much more painful and annoying, whilst in all likelihood the member (provided it escapes amputation) would be of no more service than if it had been left in its distorted condition. It is well known, and I have seen such examples, that in the course of time, a thumb in this state is gradually restored to much of its original utility. To facilitate reduction, the old proposal of dividing one of the late- ral ligaments, might now be practised witli greater propriety than in former times, by performing a subcutaneous division, with a very small and narrow-bladed knife : indeed, by a similar proceeding, the opposite ligament might also be cut in the same case, or any other texture that seemed to offer resistance,—the wound, or wounds, in the skin being so small, that little fear need be entertained of any bad results following the discreet use of such an instrument.