53.5 OPERATIONS FOR HYDROCELE. at any interval between the vessels in the scrotum. As soon as the instrument has entered, which will be readily known by the cessation of resistance, the finger must be raised ; and, as the trochar is with- drawn, the canula should be thrust somewhat deeper, where it must be allowed to remain until the fluid has run oft-, when it may be removed. If the part above refereed to be selected, and if the puncture be made nearly at right angles with the surface, there will be little risk of injury to the testicle, as this gland is almost invariably at the back of the swelling. It is injured sometimes when the trochar is thrust too deep, more especially when the hydrocele is small; and on all oc- casions it is well to ascertain the position of the organ beforehand, as in some instances it lies so much in front as to be in considerable danger. If the want of transparency does not indicate its situation, pressure with the fingers will usually do so. If a common sewing-needle or a pin be introduced once, twice, or thrice,—once will often suffice,—a similar effect will be produced, though in a different way: the fluid escapes through the aperture in the tunica vaginalis, gets effused into the cellular tissue of the scrotum, and is rapidly absorbed, so that in eight-and-forty hours the swelling will have entirely disappeared. This may not happen in all instances, yet it will in by far the greater number, provided the scrotum is otherwise in a healthy condition, and the fluid does not exceed four or six ounces in quantity. Some years ago this method of treatment attracted a good deal of attention ; but so far as 1 can perceive, it has undeservedly passed out of notice again,—perhaps in consequence of the over-sanguine statements of those who advocated the plan, that it would effect the cure of the disease ; but this it is no more likely to do than tapping is to cure ascites, or than the trochar when it is used in hydrocele. It is well known that, after the use of the latter in- strument, either in the abdomen or scrotum, the respective diseases are occasionally cured ; and the same will sometimes follow the use of the needle, as above recommended; but it is equally certain that such happy results rarely ensue. If the hydrocele forms again, one or other of these processes may be repeated as often as may be desired; but it is customary after the second or third time to resort to some method of altering the action of the serous surface,—a proceeding which is usually brought about by inducing inflammation. This may be done in a variety of methods ; but among the present race of surgeons that by injection has been most frequently resorted to. The proceeding is accomplished thus: The serum being drawn off in the manner already directed, a small syringe, provided with a moveable stop-cock nozzle, is applied to the end of tlie canula and the tunica vaginalis is again distended nearly to its full extent by a fluid of a different quality from that which has previously been present. A mixture of port wine and water (two thirds of the former to one of the latter) has been generally used since it was so strongly recommended by Sir James Earle ; but the wine