169 DISLOCATIONS OF THE SHOULDER-JOINT. greatest of all authorities on the subject, Sir Astley Cooper, who, in the preface to the posthumous edition of his work on Dislocations and Fractures (1842), has left behind him the following statement, ground- ed, it must be kept in mind, on an experience greater, perhaps, than • ever fell to the lot of any other individual: “ 1 feel,” says he, “ that my professional brethren will be disposed to think that I have limited to too short a period the attempts at reduction. It has been stated that dislocations have been reduced at four, and even six months after the injury; and this assertion I am not disposed to deny; indeed, I have myself had an opportunity of witnessing examples of the fact: but, excepting in very emaciated, relaxed, and aged persons, I have observed that the injury done in extension, has been greater than the advantage received from the reduction ; and, therefore, in the case of a very strong muscular person, I am not disposed, after three months, to recommend the attempt; finding that the use of the limb is not, when reduced, greater than that which it would have acquired in its dislocated state. Let this be fairly represented to the patient; and then, at his request only, the reduction should be attempted ; but, ‘ with all appliances and means to boot,1 the extension must be very gradually made, and without violence, to avoid injury to the muscles and nerves.” It is customary to suppose that the head of the humerus cannot be luxated directly upwards; but I have long been of opinion that such an event, to a partial extent, may, and indeed does, occur pretty fre- quently. I have met with various examples in the dissecting-rooms, in which the end of the bone has been in close contact with the acromion process and spine of the scapula, or with the coraco- acromial ligament,—lying, in the one instance, a little above and be- hind the upper part of the glenoid cavity; in the other, some- what above, and in front, between the natural articular surface and the coracoid process; both, however, coming strictly under the title of partial luxation upwards. Whether these effects were the result of immediate violence or of gradual change, I cannot de- cide : the capsular ligament seemed entire, but elongated, in some of the examples, whilst in others the articular surface of the humerus was in contact with the parts above, the capsular ligament being attached to the surrounding textures, which, condensed and infiltrated with lymph, bore all the marks of former inflammation. Within these few years the occurrence of rupture of the tendon of the long head of the biceps has been noticed by Mr. Stanley, Dr. Knox, and others ; and Mr. John Soden, Jun. of Bath, has related (Trans. Med. & Chir. Soc. 1841) the particulars of a case of supposed sprain in the shoulder, which dissection afterwards proved to be a partial displacement of the humerus upwards, and luxation of this tendon forwards on the lesser tuberosity. That this tendon is displaced in the luxations forwards or backwards, (or perhaps, to speak more correctly, that the head of the bone in such instances is displaced from the tendon,) there can be little doubt: 1 have seen the change more than once in the dissecting-room.