440 THE HEAD AND NECK. whether the growth is connected with the globe or not. In non- raalignant disease, unless the swelling is evidently increasing in size, and causing the changes last alluded to, a prudent surgeon would not think of urging an operation, which at all tunes must be deemed very dangerous in such a locality, from the vicinity of the eyeball, as well as of the dura mater and brain ; but in a malignant affection, as the patient’s ultimate safety is sacrificed by delay, there should be no hesitation about the necessity for an operation ; and should there be evidence to show that the eyeball itself is involved in the disease, the course of procedure is sufficiently clear. Aneurism by anastomosis has now been frequently seen in this situation, and I need scarcely point out the necessity for an accurate diagnosis in such cases, as no attempt at excision would be justifiable. Since Mr. Travers’ success- ful treatment by ligature of the carotid, the operation has been several times repeated, and with excellent success. Occasionally encysted tumours have been seen in the orbit; some have been treated by puncture, others by excision. Solid growths have been more frequently met with, however, and though they may be in any side of the orbit, they are most common in the upper part. Sometimes the lachrymal gland has been the seat of adventitious growth ; Daviel, Todd, Lawrence, and others, have operated in such cases ; and Tyrrell relates an instance where a surgeon, in removing a tumour from within the external angular pro- cess, under the supposition that it was an affection of this gland, afterwards found the organ in a healthy condition, attached to one side of the mass. In operating in this situation, therefore, it may be well to proceed cautiously, so as if possible to preserve this organ and its ducts. Incisions in the course of the supra-orbital ridge will usually an- swer best in the upper part of the socket, but vertical incisions have been pre- ferred on some occasions. Below, hori- zontal incisions also will probably be most suitable. When the eyeball itself has to be excised, the operation may be done thus: The patient should be laid on the table with the face uppermost, and then, with a scalpel or bistoury, an in- cision should be made from the ex- ternal commissure, half an inch beyond the margin of the orbit, when the eye- lids may. be more completely opened by an assistant, especially if the skin