INFLAMMATION. 49 that matter has formed : here the term “ chronic” is usually applied; but, nevertheless, the formation of pus has, in all probability, been a rapid—an “acute” process. The terms “ simple ” and “ specific” are, probably, much more vague in their signification than those referred to: the latter implies a vast deal in the estimation of some, whilst with others there seems really so little precision in the term, that no importance is attached to it. Thus, no difference in action can be pointed out, in inflammation and suppuration of an inguinal gland, occurring where there may be a venereal sore on the genital organs, or one arising from other causes, or where no sore,—no apparent source of irritation, is present; yet, in the instance of chancre many persons would consider the inflammation “ specific.” It may or it may not arise from the presence of venereal poison in the gland, yet the actions in either case seem precisely alike, nor will they be observed to differ from those occurring in an instance where the origin of the disease cannot be accounted for. The term “ specific,” when applied in such cases, conveys to my mind no important signification, in so far as the inflammation itself is con- cerned : but here I beg to be understood, that these observations apply chiefly to the kinds of inflammation which are met with in ordinary surgical practice. The causes of inflammation are usually sufficiently clear to deserve the term specific; thus, a broken, or dislocated bone, is a sure and specific cause of inflammation ; the presence of a foreign substance in any texture, such as a detached fragment of bone, a bullet, bit of wood, cloth, or other extraneous body, is almost certain to bring on the disease, and give it a more severe aspect, the latter resulting entirely from the “ specific” irritation or cause. Here, the importance of distinguishing a cause must appear very evident; for if it be discovered, and within the reach or power of the surgeon, its removal, whatever be the means resorted to for the purpose, forms the most important feature of the treatment. These means may be applied in various ways, as the case may require, and if used with success, it seldom happens that nature does not complete the cure ; for, under favourable circumstances, (in a young and healthy subject for example,) no sooner is the cause of inflammation removed, than the phenomena of the disease gradually disappear, and the parts return to a state of health, as nearly resembling their normal condi- tion as is compatible with circumstances. Before resorting to such measures as are deemed most applicable in the treatment of inflammation, it may be well to make sure that the disease actually exists, and in surgical practice, fortunately, the symp- toms are generally so well marked as to leave little room for doubt. The common local symptoms of pain, heat, redness, and swelling are, in many instances, so very conspicuous, that no surgeon can for a moment be uncertain about the nature of the disease. There are many examples of this affection, however, wherein some of these local symptoms cannot be appreciated; but, the quick and full pulse, E