174 CHAPTER III. FRACTURES. Fractures of the bones of the hand and fore-arm are of common occurrence. In all instances where amputation is not requisite, there is little trouble in replacing the fragments or in keeping them in proper position. In fractures of the phalanges it is occasionally difficult to detect the nature of the case. In such examples the fragments are not displaced and there is scarcely any necessity for apparatus, as the pain which the patient suffers, on any considerable motion of the part, will induce him to keep it sufficiently steady. When there is displacement, a slight extension will suffice to put the fragments into apposition ; and a little slip of pasteboard in front and behind, kept on by a bandage, or by a few turns with a narrow strip of adhesive plaster, will constitute all the apparatus required. If the phalanx connected with the meta- carpal bone happens to be the one under treatment, it will be most satisfactory to prevent all motion of the joint above ; and this may be done by carrying the splint along the palm of the hand, and fixing it by a few turns of a roller, broader than that used for the finger. The metacarpal bones when broken are seldom much displaced, and there can be no difficulty in setting the fragments. There is no need of a splint (except when the destruction of the soft parts has been considerable), as the neighbouring entire bones will answer the same end. However, should one be deemed necessary, a piece of paste- board, about the breadth of the hand, should be placed on the palm, and fixed there by means of a bandage. The splint should extend a little above the wrist, and as far down on the fingers as to allow them to rest upon it; by such means the most perfect quietude will be insured. When the bones of the carpus are broken, the injury is generally of such a nature as to endanger the safety of the hand. Should am- putation not be deemed necessary, a splint of pasteboard should be applied in front, so as to prevent all movement. As little force as possible should be used in putting or keeping the fragments together, and every effort should be made to moderate the inflammation conse- quent to the injury. The bones of the fore-arm are often broken, either singly or con- jointly, and the radius is most frequently the seat of injury. This bone generally gives way, in consequence of a fall, when the hand is thrown out to support the body ; it may, however, be fractured by a blow, or a weight coming upon it. It is seldom broken in its upper extremity, compared with the frequency of the accident in the middle or lower part, more particularly in the latter; and here, when the injury is occasioned by the weight of the body being transmitted