THE HEAD AND NECK. 410 symptoms, there is every probability that they have lodged in the lower part of the oesophagus for several years. On the dead subject, in making the incision above recommended, it will be an advantage to introduce a steel bougie through the mouth into the pharynx, the point of which can be made to project into the wound on the neck : such a proceeding might also be of service on the living, more especially if the foreign substance did not project much. Sometimes, instead of cutting on the projection, it might be deemed advisable to make the opening below or above, so that the offending substance should be pushed upwards or downwards, as circumstances might indicate : if upwards, perhaps the finger introduced through the wound, might answer; but if downwards an oesophagus bougie would be required. It seldom happens, however, that, when an object has once passed the upper end of the gullet, it does not readily find its way to the stomach. The introduction of bougies, probangs, stomach-tubes, and other in- struments, into the pharynx and oesophagus, will be readily under- stood by the student, after the anatomy of the throat has been examined. Meantime it may be stated generally, that, with few ex- ceptions, it is always best to allow the patient to keep the tongue within his mouth when it is desired to introduce any object into the pharynx or gullet. Sometimes it may be necessary for the surgeon to depress the root of the organ with the point of his finger, and at other times it may be requisite (as in using the stomach-tube in those who have swallowed soporific or intoxicating poisons) to use a gag, as it is technically named,—that is, a piece of wood, placed between the teeth, having a hole in its centre, through which the tube is insert- ed,— which prevents the individual offering any obstruction to the point of the instrument, or closing his jaws upon it. When the larynx is to be reached, it will be advisable that the patient should project the tongue so as to bring the epiglottis forward. Wounds of the neck must in general be treated according to the ordinary principles of surgery, and although it is often the custom to allude to such cases as requiring peculiar modes of practice, I cannot perceive any difference that may be necessary further than what a knowledge of anatomy and physiology might indicate. Those most commonly met with in civil practice are in individuals who attempt suicide with a razor or other sharp weapon. In such cases, supposing that the escape of blood has not caused immediate death, the first ob- ject which the surgeon has to attend to is to prevent further effusion, should such a proceeding be found necessary: he must, therefore, cleanse the wound with a sponge and warm water, and then secure the bleeding vessels as he would in other parts of the body: next he should bring the edges together, and retain them by stitches, taking care to keep the patient’s head forwards, so as to cause the surfaces to approximate. Whether the trachea, larynx, or pharynx be opened, 1 can sec no material difference in the practice, in so far as the above