THE CHEST, ABDOMEN, AND PELVIS. 540 within a little of its lower extremity ; then he should form another of the same length so as to make an ellipsis (p. 38): still scpieezing with his left hand, and applying the point of the knife to the loose cellular tissue between the skin and the tumour, the latter will in a manner start from its place, when by dividing some loose textures behind, and cutting across the spermatic cord, the removal is completed.' Before severing the latter part it is customary to desire an assistant to grasp it so that it may not retract within the inguinal canal. In general, I believe, that this is a useless precaution: the cremaster is invariably excited to action thereby, and it often happens that the cord is forcibly pulled from between the fingers, which at this time, from the slippery state of the part, have no great power to hold fast. This has oc- curred repeatedly in my own practice, but I have never had the least trouble in securing the spermatic arteries—for in this situation there are generally two branches. I can imagine some instances, however, when from these vessels having passed within the canal, some diffi- culty might be experienced in laying hold of them,— indeed, I know, of one instance of the kind. The operator had to pursue them into the canal; and whether it was from this additional injury in the proximity of the peritoneum, or from other causes, inflammation with- in the abdomen ensued, and carried the patient off within three days. Besides the spermatic branches, other small arterial twigs require liga- ture on these occasions; the scrotal arteries from the perineum and from the femoral should all be carefully secured, for hemorrhage is very likely to occur within the first few hours if they are not; and al- though it is seldom to such extent as to cause alarm from loss of blood, it may nevertheless occasion the separation of the surfaces, and retard the cure. I need scarcely add that, in accordance with what may be called a characteristic feature of British Surgery, as also from deeming it the best method of dressing, I should recommend, that the surfaces should be laid together, so as to encourage union by the first intention, and that the wound should be in other respects treated according to the principles laid down in the early part of this volume. If the tumour is of considerable size, the left hand can scarcely be used with full effect in the manner above recommended. An assistant may hold the testicle while the surgeon seizes the lips of the wound with his fingers or forceps, or the assistant may perform the latter duty. Then, instead of dividing the cord as the last step, some do so at an earlier stage;—but all these matters may be left to the discre- tion of the operator. The narrow condition of the orifice of the prepuce, constituting what is generally termed phymosis, and often also occasioning paraphy- mosis, demands more attention from the surgeon than is usually be- stowed upon it. In early age, in middle life, and in advanced years, it may be, and frequently is, the cause of much annoyance and distress. In some children where the prepuce is very long, the urine does not always escape freely, and either from this circumstance, or other less apparent sources of irritation, inflammation and suppuration