THE CHEST, ABDOMEN, AND PELVIS. 534 old colleague Mr. Lizars used occasionally to perform the operation, and I have seen one of his cases where, in a man of middle age, he had, some years before, removed several inches of the tube. The parts appeared as if no such proceeding had been resorted to, and the patient had complete power over the lower end of the remaining portion of the bowel. Mr. Lizars was in the habit of removing the verge of the anus in that condition wherein I have recommended the use of liga- tures, and operated thus:—The breech being properly presented, he seized the swollen and protruded parts with a volsellum (p. 440), with which he pulled them still further down ; next with a bistoury he effected their separation, by incisions made in the line of the cir- cumference of the gut, and then he stuffed a large hard compress, pre- viously prepared for the purpose, into the wound, which he retained firmly by means of a bandage, and thereby suppressed all bleeding. A similar process was followed, when larger portions of the gut were removed, the operations being similar in most respects to those done by Lisfranc. I have not in my own experience met with an instance where I deemed such a proceeding advisable. CHAPTER VI. OPERATIONS ON THE SCROTUM, TESTICLE, PREPUCE, AND PENIS. On the scrotum a variety of operations are required, but few can be done on the dead subject, so as to give an idea of what they may resemble on the living. The treatment of hydrocele forms, perhaps, the largest proportion of the ordinary surgeon’s duties in this situation. Here a variety of methods must from time to time be re- sorted to, notwithstanding the very general application of that by injecting port wine and water. First, after it has been ascertained that the ordinary means of promoting absorption, such as are alluded to in the chapters on inflammation and its consequences, in the early part of this volume, have been found to be of no avail, as will usually be the case, the fluid must be withdrawn from the tunica vaginalis,— a proceeding which may be accomplished in a variety of ways, the most common being by means of a trochar and canula. The manoeuvre may be effected thus: The scrotum should be seized in the left hand, gently raised, and squeezed so as to render the skin very tense in front ; then the point of the trochar held in the right hand, with the apex of the forefinger almost close upon it, should be thrust into the front of the swelling, about midway between its upper and lower end.