192 THE SUPERIOR EXTREMITY. once assisted Mr. Lizars to place ligatures on the humeral directly above and below the opening into the sac. There is little difficulty in detecting the nature of such cases, both from their histories and condition, as ascertained by the ear and fin- gers, and the line of practice to be followed is in general equally clear. If there be merely a simple communication between the artery and vein, which produces but slight inconvenience, the surgeon had better not interfere. If, however, such a state of matters should be the cause of much emaciation and loss of power in the limb, as well as of annoyance otherwise, or if an aneurismal tumour should, by increas- ing, threaten to burst or endanger the limb by mortification, an operation will be required, and this consists in ligature of the wounded artery. Though it is known that such an operation as has been al- ready described, (p. 189,) will answer in some instances, it seems to be allowed by all good authorities, that the best plan is to secure the vessel at the seat of injury, by the application of a ligature above and below the wound. I have known a second interference required, within a few weeks after the humeral had been tied in the lower-third of the arm, in consequence of the continued free communication of blood from below with the opening in the artery. The operation will vary in its nature according to that of the disease. If the vein still carries blood, an incision about three inches in length should be made along its inner margin, and by holding it a little aside the artery may be exposed at the seat of injury, and a ligature put upon it above and below. I once saw the artery tied in this way without meddling with the communication between the two vessels; in repeating it, 1 recommend the lower ligature to be applied first, as the pulsations will enable the vessel to be easily distinguished, whereas, if the upper one be first secured, this guide will lie lost, and as the vessel may have been punctured rather low down, where the operator may have some diffi- culty in tracing and recognising it, this recommendation ought not to be neglected. In the case referred to, though the vessel was very perceptible before the application of the first ligature, which was put on above, there was some difficulty in distinguishing it after the circulation was checked, chiefly owing to the condensation of the sur- rounding textures, the result of inflammation following the original injury. Though in an instance where the aneurismal tumour is small the vessel may be tied as thus directed, it may be as well, however, to cut into the tumour, and evacuate the contents,—a proceeding which is absolutely requisite when the swelling is extensive. In such examples, the circulation through the artery must be checked by pressure higher up, either with the tourniquet or the fingers. If the collection of blood be great (perhaps from six to twelve ounces), the vein will in all likelihood be obliterated, or it may be im- possible to distinguish it on the surface; a free incision, three or four inches in length, may therefore at once be made into the tu- mour, parallel with the artery, and when the clots are removed,