496 THE CHEST, ABDOMEN, AND PELVIS. terior mediastinum are all dangers so palpable, that the smallest amount of anatomical knowledge will point them out. Portions of ribs have been removed in many instances, for caries, necrosis, or tumours, and with excellent success. Generally, these proceedings have been accomplished without injury to the pleura, but this mem- brane has, in some of these cases, been accidentally opened; yet the patient has done well. A case of the kind is referred to in The Lon- don and Edinburgh Monthly Journal of Medical Science, for August 1842. M. Jacquct, in removing enlarged and carious portions of two of the ribs, (succeeding to fractures of these bones, occasioned by a blow five and thirty years before,) opened the pleura, yet, in reading a paper on the subject before the Society of Natural and Medical Sci- ences of Brussels, he exhibited the patient perfectly cured. Of course it would be highly desirable in such operations to avoid this, and for- tunately it may in general be accomplished. CHAPTER II. ABDOMEN AND PELVIS. DISSECTIONS. The posterior aspect of the abdomen presents few features of inte- rest to the surgical anatomist, and such as they are, they can readily be appreciated by those familiar with the descriptive anatomy of this region. Neither does it seem necessary to refer particularly to the mode of dissecting the parietes in front, as all students of the first year’s standing must be acquainted with such proceedings. The course and nature of the linea alba on the mesial line, and of the linea semi- lunaris on each side, will already have been pointed out to him, as will also the different regions botli by name and shape ; and the particular viscera occupying each will all be known. The dissector of surgical anatomy may, if he chooses, repeat the dissection and ex- amination of these parts, and he may again look into the abdomen. In the dissection of the chest, allusion has been made (p. 490) to the narrowness of that cavity at the lower part on each side, and the con- vexity of the diaphragm upwards has been specially noticed, and now in the abdomen it may be observed how high the peritoneal cavity projects. In consequence, it often happens in wounds of the lower part of the chest (a stab with a clasp-knife, for example), that the pe- ritoneal cavity and some of the abdominal viscera are injured, even in instances where the length of the weapon may have been such as scarcely to have excited a suspicion that so much damage had been done. I have known a short blade pierce and transfix the pleura,— passing through the lower part of the lung at the same time,—perforate the diaphragm and its peritoneal investment, and wound the stomach.