11 AND OPERATIONS. the hand should be placed on the bone, and by drawing it steadily backwards, a slight groove will be made ; it should then be pushed forwards, and, by a repetition of such movements, extending on each occasion nearly the length of the blade, with a moderate degree of force and rapidity, a bone, the femur, for example, may be cut through in a few seconds. There are varieties of saws, which I shall speak of afterwards, as being better adapted for particular operations, and I shall then also describe the manner in which these, as well as that now alluded to, are to be applied and used for each special purpose. The cutting forceps (fig. 13) may be used for the removal of por- tions of bones, when the saw cannot be readily applied ; and in some instances, as in excision of portions of the jaws, this instrument may be substituted with great advantage ; there is but little skill re- quired in using it, strength of hand being the chief requisite. The cutting edges are brought together by compressing the handles betwixt the thumb and fingers, 'flic pressure should be forcible and steady, and on no account should there be any shaking or twisting of the handles. In partial amputations of the fingers or toes, hand or foot, it may on all occasions be used in preference to the saw. I have even divided the femur with it on the young sub- ject ; though the saw ought to be preferred for the large bones in amputations of the ex- tremities. For the removal of diseased or dead portions of bone, when the neighbouring healthy bone requires to be cut, it may entirely supersede the common saw, or the more complicated one, termed the chain-saw. Indeed, though this is a somewhat ancient surgical instrument (for it was figured by Scultetus nearly two hun- dred years ago), and though it had become in a manner obsolete till within these thirty years, I know of no single instrument whose re-introduction to practice in modern times has conferred a greater boon on the operating sur- geon ; and for this I believe we are solely in- debted to Mr. Liston, whose example in using it has been most extensively followed by a large proportion of the present race of operat- ing surgeons. The usual length of the instrument is from eight to nine inches; but it may vary in size according to circumstances. The blades behind the joint should be very strong, so that they will neither bend Ficj. 13. ©