195 CHAPTER V. VENESECTION. The operation of venesection may be practised on the dead body by the beginner, and the sooner he avails himself of an opportunity of doing it on the living so much the better. In the latter case it should be done as follows :—The fore part of the elbow should first be examined with the fingers, to ascertain the position of the humeral artery, and that there is no irregularity in it or its blanches : a common bandage or a riband, about a yard in length, should then be carried round the arm three inches above the elbow, and drawn suffi- ciently tight to prevent the circulation in the veins; that in the artery being allowed to go on with full vigour, as may be ascertained by feeling the pulse at the wrist. In order to throw the most of the venous blood into the superficial vessels, the patient should be desired to put the muscles of the fore-arm into action, which can be best done by grasping some object with the hand. One of the veins at the bend of the elbow must next be selected for the operation : either the median basilic or the median cephalic. If the latter be chosen, there is no danger of doing any harm with the lancet, unless a branch of the musculo-cutaneous nerve be injured, which some suppose may cause trouble; if the former, then all care must be taken to protect the humeral artery, which will probably lie immediately beneath, only separated from the vein by that part of the aponeurosis of the fore- arm, which is sent off from the inner margin of the tendon of the biceps. In operating on this vein, a branch of the internal cutaneous nerve may be cut, but there is little occasion to dread the supposed effects of such an injury. Notwithstanding the situation of this vessel over the artery, it is commonly selected, being in general the larger of the two, and therefore the most likely to yield with ease the desired quantity of blood. After the bandage has been applied for a few minutes, the thumb of the left hand should be put upon the vein a little below the part meant to be opened, and the lancet, held as in figure 98, between the thumb and forefinger of the right hand, should be pushed through the skin into the vein, in such a direction as to cut it obli- quely ; the point of the instrument should then be raised, so as to describe the segment of a circle, and thus the wound in the vessel will be nearly as large as that in the skin. Were the lancet thrust in and drawn out again, in consequence of the shape of this instrument, a sufficient opening could scarcely be made, without transfixing the vein. Instead of holding the lancet almost at a right angle with the vein, as may be supposed from the drawing, it may occasionally be placed in line more parallel with the thumb, and thus it will puncture at a less acute angle than the sketch indicates. Besides keeping the skin and the vein steady, the thumb, placed as above directed, commands the