526 THE CHEST, ABDOMEN, AND PELVIS. Sir Astley Cooper, Mr. Key, Mr. Lawrence, and other surgeons of distinction. I am not aware, however, of any practitioner of the pre- sent day having had such experience in this mode of procedure as Mr. Luke, of the London Hospital. In a conversation which I lately had on the subject with that gentleman, he informed me that his operations had been very unsatisfactory in their results until he adopted the plan in question, when he found that instead of losing every third patient, or about that average, he had only lost two out of nearly forty on whom he had operated without opening the sac. Experience such as this ought assuredly to have great weight, and should, along with Mr. Key’s excellent Memoir, go far to attract still greater atten- tion to the practice. I have myself adopted it in several instances; but need not dwell further upon it than to express my conviction, that the practice is worthy of far more consideration than it at present meets from the generality of practitioners. The dressing of the wound and after-treatment should be the same whether the sac has been opened or not, and in all instances the patients, when again able to move about, must be enjoined to wear a truss as carefully as if an operation had not been performed. The cicatrix in these individuals gives no security against a second protrusion. For further valuable information, which every practical surgeon should possess, I must again refer to the works of Cooper and Law- rence, both regarding the kinds of hernia particularly alluded to above, as also the umbilical and other rarer forms of the disease. The modem proposals, by Gerdy, Guerin, and others, of causing the obliteration of the sac or its neck, have as yet met with few advocates in this country. The subcutaneous incisions of the latter gentleman have not, in so far as I am aware, been put into execution by any of our surgeons; and the ingenious practice of Gerdy of turning in the sac of a large inguinal hernia, as we might the finger of a glove, and using stitches to keep the part in this position, has, to my knowledge, been only once done in England. Mr. Bransby Cooper succeeded in this way in partially relieving a person, who was disabled from active occupation in consequence of a large hernial protrusion through the inguinal canal, which could not be retained within the abdomen by any of the usual means. Under ordinary circumstances it is doubtful in how far the surgeon would be justified in adopting such a procedure.