63 ABSCESS. niments of inflammation ; and if, before the process has gone almost to its full extent, any incision be made into the affected parts, the injury thereby inflicted upon them, will perhaps prevent such benefit as may be expected. That in all instances of suppurative inflammation this is not the case, I most readily admit, and the examples I have cited above, to inculcate the necessity for an early opening, will show that I entertain many exceptions ; but in the case of bubo in the groin, or other such abscess, I am decidedly inclined to delay, until the parts over the matter become much thinner than they may have been at first, or, in other words, until the fluid has come nearer to the surface, and perhaps actually threatens to burst forth. When an opening is required in cases of suppuration, I give a pre- ference to cutting instruments for the purpose. Excepting in rare and peculiar cases, I deem the caustic potash a cruel and unwarrant- able application ; and when the abscess is large, I consider that a scalpel or bistoury should always be used. In a small collection of matter, the point of a needle or pin may make a sufficient opening, or that of a lancet may at all events suffice; but, as I strongly recommend that a free incision should be made in the generality of these cases, I deem a bistoury the most efficient instrument. In the case of a bubo, containing perhaps an ounce or so of matter, I would probably make a wound an inch long, so as to expose fully the whole interior of the abscess. I would, in general, select the thinnest part of the skin, where the matter is said, in technical language, to point, and make the incision in the longest axis of the swelling, though sometimes I might be induced to deviate from the latter rule, for the purpose of having one end of the opening in such a position as to give free passage to matter afterwards, or possibly for the purpose of cutting parallel with some particular part, or in other instances across such textures as might seem to require division. If a lancet is used in any of these operations, it may be held in the manner referred to at p. 39 ; and if the bistoury is selected, the atti- Fig. 51.