DISSECTION OF THE CRURAL CANAL. 501 lymphatic glands will be observed imbedded in its substance; some of these may have already been noticed on its outer surface, and unless the aponeurosis of the thigh be very clearly dissected, several will be left upon the latter; these, however, had better be removed also, for although it is occasionally the custom in the first stage of the dissec- tion of the parts of crural hernia to cut away the superficial fascia, and leave the glands and small vessels—with various small twigs of nerves which may also be seen here, I deem it more advisable to remove them all with the membrane. Towards the inner margin of the thigh, a little below Poupart’s liga- ment, a portion of cellular substance should be left in this stage of the dissection, and about two inches below the ligament the upper end of the internal saphena vein will be seen passing into this structure ; several lymphatic glands may also be observed in this situation. The vein should be displayed as low down as the dissection extends ; it should then be cut through, and turned upwards, when the fascia lata will be seen stretching across the front of the thigh. If this membrane be examined at the part where the vein is dipping into the cellular texture above, it will be perceived to terminate abruptly in a rounded concave margin, which looks towards Poupart’s ligament. This margin should be traced, and it will be noticed on one side to spread out into that part of the fascia which covers the pectineus muscle, (the pubic portion of the fascia lata,) and on the other to ex- tend upwards and outwards, so as to form a crescentic margin looking towards the inner aspect of the thigh, having its upper extremity or hom attached to Poupart’s ligament. This has been named the iliac portion of the fascia lata, and will be observed to cover the femoral vein and artery, which lie a little nearer the ilium than the margin referred to. This margin is not always very distinct, and at all events a little dissection is requisite to display it distinctly. Some cellular tissue will be noticed attached to it and the pubic portion of the fascia, and filling in part the hollow which is formed by the latter being so much lower than the level of the iliac portion. When this membrane (which is usually called the cribriform fascia) is removed, the margin is more defined, and the pubic portion of the fascia lata is seen lying in close contact with the pectineus muscle, whilst the hollow is rendered very distinct. A lymphatic gland is often found in this situation, and it must be removed with the cribriform fascia. If the point of the finger is now thrust into the upper end of the hollow under Poupart's ligament, it is in the crural canal or ring,—in that situation through which the crural or femoral hernia descends. At this stage of the dissection the thigh should be raised and extended alternately, so as to exhibit the enlarged and diminished size of this opening during these movements. To get a clear view of the opening, the ligament of Poupart should be divided about midway between its extremities, and the inner end laid over towards the pubes; this portion will now be seen to have formed the anterior boundary of the canal; the broad attach-