66 CHAPTER XII. SINUS. I f a free opening into an abscess be not made, the matter which may still continue to be secreted from the surface, will not readily get vent, may collect in some dependent part of the cavity, burrow under the skin, and probably point elsewhere; or possibly the in- terior of the abscess will remain much the same as immediately after being opened, the surfaces may rub against each other, a con- stant secretion being thereby induced, and there may be little altera- tion for the better, even after the lapse of months. This condition and that termed sinus are nearly alike; the principal difference being, that in the latter there is a kind of canal, much longer than it is broad : indeed, a sinus is most frequently the result of abscess. It is almost invariably the result of suppuration near the anus, constituting fistula in ano, and here the surgeon knows that his utmost skill can seldom prevent the formation of sinus: the abscess will not heal en- tirely. In other parts of the body it will occur in spite of the utmost care; occasionally it is the result of negligence; and very frequently it arises from too small an opening being made originally. An abscess in the condition above described, and a sinus, may be treated much in the same way : the cavity must be made to close, and a variety of methods may be resorted to for this purpose ; all of them having for their immediate object the inducement of new, and per- haps excited action, under which the grand object of treatment is gained, viz. the complete reunion of the parts. One of the simplest means of treatment is pressure, which is usually effected by a pad of lint, held in its place over the space or sinus, by straps of sticking plaster, or a roller; the surfaces are then kept steady, perhaps a slight adhesive action is excited, and so union occurs. Stimulating injections will probably accelerate the action. Some- times these are used by themselves, of considerable strength. Such plans, however, fail but too frequently; often no favourable change being produced, whilst occasionally they are so far deceptive as to cause the orifice to close : but the deeper part remains in its usual condi- tion,—matter still continuing to be secreted, which, after collecting in considerable quantity, will burst through the original opening, or make a new one for itself somewhere in the vicinity. And so affairs may go for months or for years, as is often exemplified in the case of fistula in ano, unless there be some more active interference on the surgeon’s part. In almost all such cases the 'best practice is to lay the part freely open with a probe-pointed bistoury, such as the blade represented in fig. 53. The point should be passed into any