83 QUESTION OF AMPUTATION. case should be nearly alike,) poultices will, besides their other good qualities, act as soft cushions for the injured parts, and if a water bed (Dr. Amott’s) can be procured, it will be found of the utmost utility. CHAPTER XVII. QUESTION OF AMPUTATION IN GANGRENE AND MORTIFICATION. The above remarks are applicable chiefly to instances of partial affection of some region : but it will happen sometimes that the gan- grene seems so extensive, in either the upper or lower extremity, or that mortification has committed such ravages, as to preclude the hope of saving the limb, or even the life of the individual, if such a source of irritation is allowed to remain. The surgeon will seldom do his duty properly here, if he leave the case so much to nature, as in the instance of a partial slough ; for, although there is ample experience to prove that a portion of a hand or foot, fore-ann or leg, may drop off, or that either member may be separated at its articulation with the trunk, by the disjunctive absorption, it is equally certain that the work is done in a tedious, painful, and unsatisfactory manner. Months may elapse ere a part is entirely separated; and when this has at last occurred, months more may pass over ere the sore cicatrizes. There cannot be a doubt, that the surgeon is justified, in many of these cases, in performing amputation, and the only difficulty in some of them is to determine on the proper period for such a pro- ceeding. In the instance of spreading gangrene, as has already been stated, it is difficult, if not impossible, to say where the disease is to end,— where there is to be a separation between the dead and living parts,— and hence it has been the prevalent custom to wait until a line of demarcation has formed, though, from the examples of Larrey, Lawrence, and some other modern surgeons, the practice of operating at an early period has been strongly advocated. Although educated in these latter doctrines, and strongly prepossessed in their favour, I feel bound to say, that, after having acted upon them repeatedly, and seen others do the same, the success has been very different from what I anticipated. 1 have in my recollection six cases in which I amputated during spreading gangrene, four times in the thigh, (one of them being for a simple fracture of the leg, another for compound; both close upon the ankle; the third following spontaneous obstruction of a popliteal aneurism, and the fourth after ligature of the femoral artery for a similar disease); one in the leg for severe lacerated wound of the foot, and the sixth at the shoulder-joint for extensive in- jury of the arm. None of these succeeded ; and though I might pos- sibly in future resort to similar practice, I must say, that I should feel