CO EFFUSION OF PUS. most distressing symptoms of inflammation, both locally and constitu- tionally, and, although this may be doubted in some cases, there are certain forms of injury and disease where such a result is most appa- rent, and where, in consequence, the practitioner from the very first encourages the event. Thus, in lacerated wounds, when there is no possibility of union by the first intention, and in wounds where irri- tating materials have been left behind, suppuration is not only produc- tive of the benefits above alluded to, but is also a stage in advance to- wards a cure. It is almost universally admitted that the formation of pus progresses most favourably under warmth, and hence, then, in such cases the surgeon assiduously applies it by one or other of those means already adverted to. Here it may seem strange, that the same means are adopted to encourage suppuration that are considered most efficacious in arresting inflammation; yet, according to the explana- tions I have given of the supposed efficacy of warmth in this disease, and what I have lately said of the beneficial results of the process, this remedial agent (warmth) may be considered to act favourably in inflammation, whether in one case it arrests its progress, or in another it hastens on the suppurative stage, and thus in a great measure changes the aspect of the disease. Why it should produce these dif- ferent effects, cannot readily be explained, nor can the most expe- rienced surgeon always be certain which result will ensue. It is often a point of much interest to determine whether suppura- tion has actually occurred or not. When it happens on a surface from whence matter is discharged, the physical characters of the secre- tion are usually sufficiently clear to denote the circumstance : but if it happens in deep-seated parts, there may not be the same facility for discrimination; so, whilst in some instances the event can scarcely be doubted, in others the most experienced practitioner may be at fault. The only characteristic constitutional symptom denoting the first for- mation of matter, which has been deemed of much consequence, is that of shivering; but it is, in my opinion, less worthy of estimation than some seem to imagine:—it frequently happens in instances of dis- ease where suppuration never ensues; it often occurs even in a state of health, and equally often when it does happen, it may be overlooked. Shivering is a symptom which the surgeon is often deeply interested in, not so much, however, from the dread of suppuration, as that it denotes some peculiar condition of the system fraught with much dan- ger to life,—as, for example, if within the first ten days after a capital amputation, or after lithotomy, a patient is seized with shivering, there is every reason to anticipate a fatal result; and although this may not occur in all such instances, every practical surgeon must bear me out in the formidable estimation i have made of this symptom. But whether it has preceded suppuration or not, the surgeon will seldom be thus satisfied that matter has formed. Swelling is not always a good criterion either, for though in some cases the continued accumulation of matter often produces most perceptible swelling, tumefaction some- times actually diminishes as matter is formed. The undulatory mo-