THE INFERIOR EXTREMITY. 3G2 other thigh will make it difficult to depress the hand sufficiently to enable the operator to elevate the point over the front of the hone; in short, he will discover that all the movements of his right hand will he very much cramped if he places himself between the patient’s legs, or if, for example, in amputating in the upper part of the right thigh, he places himself on the patient’s left side, he will find that what be- tween the difficulty already referred to, and having to stretch across the patient’s body, the whole proceedings are both troublesome and awkward. In any of these operations the superficial femoral artery will first demand attention as soon as the part is removed. The vessel is never difficult to discover, but sometimes, particularly when the transfixion is from the outside, it will be found split for an inch or more. In such a case, as well as when the artery is cut almost directly across, it must be cautiously separated from the vein with the points of the forceps, and slightly drawn out of its sheath, ere the ligature is ap- plied. The anastomotica magna may require ligature in the lower third of the thigh, but in general the main vessel is either cut across or tied above this branch. Higher up the branches of the deep femoral may require three or four additional ligatures: but it is dif- ficult to say how many may be necessary, for I have seen an instance where even the main vessel did not bleed, (the case was one of gan- grene,) so that it was more choice than necessity that induced the operator to put a thread around it, and most practitioners of experience must have seen occasional examples where one ligature was sufficient, whilst in others eight, ten, or a dozen, may have proved not more than enough. In the upper part of the thigh venous hemorrhage will often cause annoyance, but it usually ceases as soon as the pressure in the groin is taken off, and invariably does so when the flaps are laid to- gether. The point of the finger will here also (as in the leg) be of service for a time. Amputation at the hip-joint has now been so frequently performed, that the surgeon needs no other justification for resorting to it than the urgency of the case; and although no reasonable practitioner would ever attempt it except as a last resource, it is somewhat satis- factory to know, that with all the disadvantages under which it has been performed, particularly in military practice, and notwithstanding the fearful shock which must of necessity attend such an extensive mutilation, the success of the operation has probably been such, that one patient out of every three on whom it has been performed has been saved. It is difficult, however, to collect the proper data for the statistics of this operation, but I believe I am within the mark in the above statement. During my residence in Edinburgh the operation was done four times, twice by Mr. Liston and as often by Mr. Syme : all the patients died, although one of the latter gentleman’s cases may actually be deemed to have succeeded, for the wound was entirely healed, when, unfortunately, effusion into the peritoneal cavity caused death within eight weeks after the operation.