OPERATIONS OX THE TONGUE, THROAT, ETC. 4G5 vised him to rest contented. To this, however, for reasons which he did not choose to explain, he was not at first inclined, although he afterwards followed our advice. It was my intention to have cut a portion of a wedge-shape out of the thickened parts, immediately within where the lips join, about an inch and a half in length, a quarter of an inch or a little more in thickness at its middle, and tapering to each end: then I should have used stitches of interrupted suture, and doubt not that the patient would ultimately have been pleased. Any one particular about his personal appearance, and anxious for a bonne Louche of this kind, might certainly be gratified, although I should not in general be inclined to recommend any inter- ference : nevertheless I shall take this opportunity of drawing the surgeon’s attention to a very unseemly malformation called double-lip, which is characterized by a remarkable projection of the mucous membrane of the upper bp when the person who has it laughs, and which, in my opinion, might be very easily and effectually remedied by a proceeding similar to that above referred to. CHAPTER IX. OPERATIONS ON THE TONGUE, THROAT, EARS, PALATE, AND MOUTH. Various operations may be required on and about the tongue. Among the latter I may allude to division of the fraenum in children. Occasionally this part seems so short as to impede the free movement of the organ, and, usually when the child is at the breast, the nurse requests the operation to be done. For this purpose the common sur- gical scissors (p. 30) should be applied to the fold of mucous mem- brane close upon the symphysis : a division about an eighth of an inch will in general suffice, and there is no necessity for approaching the tongue so as in any way to endanger either the ranine veins or arteries. When the child is touched it will cry, and then, when the tongue is raised the scissors can be used : at this time the fraenum is on the stretch, but to keep it thus, and also to prevent the mouth closing, the forefinger of the surgeon’s left hand may be introduced and held against the lower part of the apex of the tongue I have known the ranine veins punctured with a lancet in instances of cynanche in the adult. An incision or puncture may sometimes be required in examples of obstruction of one or other of the salivary ducts. That of the parotid is rarely thus affected ; but those under the tongue, especially that of the submaxillary gland, constituting the condition termed ranula, may require interference. Somtimes a hard concretion forms in one 2 H *