117 ANEURISM BY ANASTOMOSIS. reason to suppose that the affection was deeper than the aponeurosis. It had been present from infancy, but had only lately come near to the surface, where several small ulcers had formed, from which the blood flowed copiously on any unusual effort being made. Being un- able to commence any active occupation, the patient was willing to submit to whatever plan of treatment might be advised. Excision seemed out of the question, incision equally so ; and the breadth, flatness, and supposed depth of the affected mass, precluded any at- tempt to cause the part to slough away with ligatures. The parts were not favourable for pressure, and vaccination or caustics seemed insufficient for the bulk of the disease. I used a variety of needles in the manner already described, and with some good effect. Still, however, the formidable part of the disease remained. I then passed several large cords, as setons, and these, too, had a favourable in- fluence, but the affection was far from being cured. Ultimately find- ing that these measures excited far less inflammatory action than might have been expected, I introduced, by means of long slender needles, a variety of single threads in all directions. More severe action than ever ensued, and when the swelling thus produced had subsided, the tumour was smaller, and firmer than it had ever been ; there was less distinct pulsation in it, and a thrill, which was per- ceptible previously, could not now be detected. When the various apertures on the surface had firmly cicatrized, I allowed the boy to move about as he thought proper; and after watching him for more than a year, I could perceive no indication of the disease being likely to trouble him further. Several small vascular points were still visible on the surface, but these caused no uneasiness; and, I believe, had the patient been anxious, might have been advantageously treated in a similar manner. As it was, the lad, from having been unable to walk without dread and danger of bleeding, now considered himself equal to any fatigue, and called to show himself, previous to entering on the active duties of a sailor. Aneurism by anastomosis is most frequently seen in the skin and subcutaneous cellular texture, more especially about the head and neck ; but it may be seen in any region, deep-seated or superficial, af- fecting only a portion of a limb or the whole textures. A finger or toe may be the seat of the disease, or the entire thickness of the leg may be affected. Of late years a disease named Aneurism of Bone has been a good deal spoken of; and my friend Dr. Ilandvside, of Edinburgh, has written an excellent treatise on the subject. I have often thought that it is no other than aneurism by anastomosis, modified in some of its symptoms and its condition by the peculiar texture in which it is situated. It has hitherto been observed chiefly in the cancellated texture of the upper part of the tibia ; and as it is evident, that few of the local measures referred to in the preceding pages could be of any service in such a situation, unless ligature of the femoral artery checked the disease, amputation would be the only re-