15 AND OPERATIONS. to lay aside, or cut away, those that lie over them ; hut it should never be forgotten, that removing, or even turning them aside to any great extent, cannot be done on the living body; and the more, therefore, that a person accustoms himself to look at deep-seated textures with the surrounding parts in as near proximity as circumstances will permit, so much the more readily will the same individual expose such textures, should it be necessary to reach them, on the living body. It will be of consequence to become familiar with many deep-seated tissues by touch as well as by sight, and the fore-finger, of the left hand in particular, should be employed on these occasions. In lithotomy, for example, though the surgeon ought to be familiar by sight with all the parts concerned in the operation, the touch is of as much consequence to him as the sight: more so, I should say, as all the most difficult steps are done, where and when the eyes are of little or no avail. The portion of the body about to be dissected should be put in the most convenient attitude; each texture about to be cut should be put on the stretch, with the fingers and thumb of the left hand, or with the forceps and hooks, as already described at p. 8. Occasionally, the assistance of a friend will be of sendee ; but, undoubtedly, the more the dissector trusts to his own resources, the better will it be for himself; and, with practice, the ring and little finger of each hand can be used to stretch the parts, even when the scalpel and forceps are both in use. It is well known that much of the dissector’s skill may be exhi- bited by attention to these matters, and an equal extent of arrange- ment and design are of the utmost consequence to the practical sur- geon. Before commencing any operation, its various steps should be carefully thought over, and all reasonable contingencies provided for ; some will occasionally occur which no experience or foresight could have anticipated ; but no such negligence as the formation of the flaps in a capital amputation, without a saw being in the apartment, where- with to divide the bone, should ever occur. I have seen such a dilemma, when the surgeon, who had trusted to his assistant to have all the requisite instruments at hand, had to wait till a saw was pro- cured : fortunately, in this instance the saw was in a contiguous apart- ment ; but Sir Anthony Carlisle used to refer to a similar oversight, when the instrument was many miles off. If the surgeon does trust to an assistant to have all things properly prepared, as he may be obliged on certain occasions, he ought still to satisfy himself before commencing an important operation, that nothing is wanting which may be of service. Undoubtedly the responsibility rests with him ; and in practising on the dead body, these preliminaries, for the sake of rendering the lesson more complete, should all be as carefully at- tended to, as if the proceedings were about to be done on the living. The positions of both patient and surgeon are of much moment also ; occasionally it may be necessary to change both ; but there can be no excuse for a surgeon, who, after forming the first flap in amputation