a no CHAPTER II. OPERATIONS ON NKC'K. I.IGATURE OP ARTERIES, On the hack of the neck there are few operations of great con- sequence ever required. The application of the cupping apparatus, or the introduction of a seton, are, perhaps, the chief of them, and no particular notice of either is here necessary. The skin in this situation is so thick, that the lancets may In; allowed to penetrate to any reasonable depth, more especially as there will he no dan- ger of coming in contact with important organs: it is not, however, considered advantageous to make very deep wounds in the operation of cupping. The seton is used more frequently in this region than in any other part of the hotly. The cord is generally introduced about three inches below the occipital protuberance, being carried in a transverse direction about tin inch in length under the skin. The most convenient mode of passing it is such as lias already been described at p. -17. Occasionally it is necessary to remove tumours from this part ; and as these are usually superficial, there is little care or skill required in such operations. Some time since 1 re- moved a fibrous growth, about the size of the fist, which had been present for many years, and prevented the development of the upper ends of the large muscles in this situation: the mass was in contact with the occipital bone, touched the upper cervical ver- tebne, and some pains and caution were required for its separation. The occipital artery, and some of its branches, bled freely. The patient had so long carried his head in a stooping position, that little benefit in this respect was derived from the operation ; otherwise, however, he bad got rid of a considerable deformity, and had more fa- cility in moving his head. On the side of the neck venesection is occasionally performed in the external jugular. That part of the vessel over the sterno-mastoid muscle is the seat of operation, and here, ns the vein lies under the platysma myoides, it may be well to keep in mind the recommenda- tion to carry the lancet across the fibres ot this muscle, as there will thus be less chance of a thrombus forming under it. In other words, the incision may be made parallel with the sterno-mastoid. Perhaps the best reason for this proceeding is, that the vein will be cut obliquely; for, though l do not mean to deny that the fibres of the platysma, if not divided, may obstruct the flow ot blood, 1 believe that more importance has been attached to this circumstance than it really deserves, having often seen the blood flow freely with the wound made in either direction. Probably the different size ol the vein in different individuals will sufficiently account tor the stream flowing more rapidly in one than in another. Nevertheless, as it will be as easy to make the incision in one direction as in another, it will be best