135 AMPUTATION. the wound ; lastly, a roller should be applied, with a very moderate tightness around the limb from the pelvis downwards, and to give additional steadiness it may be brought several times across the end of the stump. In eight and forty hours, or about the seventy-second at most, the roller should be undone, the strip of lint taken off, the stitches cut out, the straps removed and fresh ones applied, with lint and ointment also, and a clean roller again put round the parts. The dressings must be removed once at least every twenty-four hours for the next ten or fifteen days. At this time, probably, all the ligatures may have separated ; and now, perhaps, if any part of the wound gapes, or there is any disposition in the flaps to go awry, a little more pressure may be used both with straps and bandages. Any part of the wound which remains open, will in all probability be a healthy granulating surface, which has a tendency to heal of its own accord. Sometimes stimulating lotions or ointments, such as those used on granulating sores, may be of service. For fifteen or twenty days the patient must be kept in bed : when all the ligatures have separated, and some few days after when the wound has nearly closed, he may be allowed to get up. In thirty or forty days, provided everything has gone on well, the stump will be completely healed,—no further dressing will be required, unless, perhaps, the daily application of the roller, which I think it well to continue for some considerable time afterwards, both as giving a good support to the newly-formed adhe- sions, and also as being useful in keeping the stump of a good shape. Many modifications of the above proceedings will be required, from circumstances which it would be useless, if not impossible, to enu- merate here. Much of what may be deemed good practice must de- pend on the good sense of the surgeon. The custom of covering the end of a stump with thick dressings is, in my opinion, highly objec- tionable, and is a relic of old, ignorant, and barbarous surgery, which ought to be done away with entirely ; indeed, when the parts show no disposition to separate, I do not on all occasions deem it requisite to apply even the somewhat loose bandage which I have above recom- mended. I have seen a stump of the thigh, by the circular operation too, admirably treated without any covering at all, excepting a narrow slip of lint applied over the stitches; and I may refer to the stump of the leg, afterwards represented in one of the drawings, which I think must be allowed to be a good one, which was treated for three weeks, with the exception of the first eight and forty hours, without any bandage or support whatever. Commonly, however, I think a bandage highly serviceable, more especially towards the latter part of the treatment, when it may be used with great effect in giving the stump a proper shape. The straps which I generally use are of the ordinary adhesive plaster. Mr. Liston has greatly extolled a solution of isinglass in spirits of wine, spread upon oiled silk, or gold-beater’s leaf; and Mr. Torbock, of Sunderland, writes to me in high praise of portions of caoutchouc web, cut in the usual shape of straps. The principal ad-