374 THE HEAD AND NECK. or with injection, it is apt to be overlooked, its tunics being so remark- ably thin. The right side shows a considerable and important difference in the condition of the blood-vessels. Supposing the dissection to have been conducted on this side in the same way as has already been described, until the sterno-mastoid muscle, the sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid, have been divided and turned downwards, the carotid artery, instead of disappearing in the chest as on the left side, may here be traced to the arteria innominata, which vessel may be seen projecting above the sternum the length of three-fourths of an inch, more or less, according to the position of the head, the length of the vessel, or the height of the arch of the aorta. In clearing the innominata, the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles will be observed to lie completely in front of it: a considerable quantity of cellular texture will also be noticed, and the division into carotid and subclavian may be seen im- mediately behind, and, perhaps, a little above the sterno-clavicular articulation. Several veins will probably be noticed passing down- wards, some above the small muscles here, others closer to the trachea, and the vena innominata of the right side may probably not be per- ceived,—it usually lies so deep here. Behind the above-named muscles, on the right side, the cellular tissue presents a dense membranous aspect, and between the carotid and inner margin of the scalenus anticus, nothing of consequence can be seen distinctly. Perhaps, however, the outline of some of the branches of the subclavian may be noticed, as also that of the inter- nal jugular vein, particularly if it be distended with blood. If the cellular membrane be now cautiously dissected away, the branches of the subclavian artery may be displayed as on the left side, the in- ternal jugular vein may also be seen as on the other side—excepting that it lies further from the carotid: the par vagum will probably be more distinctly seen than on the left, and little anatomical discrimina- tion is required to discover various branches of the sympathetic, which pass towards the chest in front of this artery. The difference between the two subclavians at the root of the neck may now be clearly observed: between the origin of that under notice, and the branches which are given off before it passes the scaleni muscles, the vessel is throughout its course above the level of the first rib ; whereas, on the left side the greater part of this artery, before it reaches the rib, is much below the level of that bone, and is in fact so deep that it is difficult to expose it in such a dissection as has been described. The right subclavian vein occupies much the same relation to the artery as does the left, being in front and somewhat below the level of the latter vessel: it unites with the internal jugular as on the left, and forms the right vena innominata. The mesial line of the neck may now be examined. Whether the dissections already described have been performed on one or both