OPERATIONS ON THE NOSE AND NOSTRILS. 451 stitches on each side. At this time the flap will be flat and loose, but it should now be raised by stuffing in portions of lint, until it pro- jects to the full extent. A stitch should then be introduced at the lower part of the gap in the forehead, the open surface above being left to heal by the second intention. The above proceedings require a good deal of nicety on the part of the operator, and various circumstances must be carefully attended to. First, the flap should be so large that, at the period of the operation, and for some weeks or months after, it should seem to be more full than there is occasion for: in the course of time it will contract so much that at last, when the newly-made organ has acquired its per- manent shape, its size will not be greater than may be required. It should be remembered that as soon as the knife is carried through the line on the brow the skin which it has circumscribed will contract a little, and therefore due allowance should be made for this also when the leather is being shaped, and as the cheeks separate when the wounds are made on the face, the knife should not be placed too far from the mesial line, for fear of making the base of the new nose too broad. Then, care must be taken that the root of the flap is not left too narrow for fear of a deficient circulation, and it should neither be twisted hard, nor compressed by the stitch between the eyebrows. In order to bring the flap down to a proper position, and to obviate stretching and pressure, the root will sometimes require to be slightly elongated by carrying the incision a little lower on each side. The bleeding from the wound on the forehead will be copious ; but ligatures will seldom be required. The gap is very considerable at first; but in the course of time, especially if care has been taken in the dressings, the cicatrix will not be very conspicuous. The stitches on the cheeks must be removed on the second or third day, when, in all probability, complete union will have occurred : the free edges of the flap will heal by granulation, and until cicatrization has become complete the part must be carefully supported with lint, which may be introduced in such a way as shall conduce greatly to the ultimate shape of the organ. After the lapse of three weeks or a month, when all the sores have healed, the root of the flap should be cut across. It will be observed that as yet the skin immediately under this part has not been touch- ed : now, however, an incision should be made, so as to admit the upper extremity of the flap, which for this purpose must be cut in the shape of a wedge : this wound having also healed, and when the vitality of the transplanted skin seems vigorous, a new columna must be formed in this way;—'The patient being seated, and his head held back, the surgeon, standing behind, should pass the point of a narrow bistoury into the 1 iot of the upper lip, a little to one side of the mesial line, and cut do-: awards until the instrument passes the free margin: again he should introduce it at a corresponding part on the other side, and, by carrying it downwards in the same manner, a portion of the upper lip about three lines in breadth, will thus be detached, except-