98 WOUNDS. Delpech, divided the tendo Achillis for club-foot, a large opening was made in the skin, and the tendon was freely exposed to the air, but the wounds healed so slowly that the operation was deemed of little value, until Stromeyer showed the advantages of the subcutaneous incision. Since then, extensive use of the knife has been made, so as to divide broad tendons and muscles, (the latissimus dorsi, for example, and the rhomboideus major,) but the instrument has been so narrow, and has caused such a small puncture in the skin, that air has not been admitted, and the whole track has united without a single un- pleasant symptom. One object in such cases has been to permit the retraction of the divided ends: the parts cut, therefore, cannot be said to have united by the first intention, but the whole gap left between the retracted extremities has done so: at all events, there has been no suppuration, nor has there been any granulation, in the ordinary ac- ceptation of that term. Whether a wound is, or has been, exposed to the air or not, I deem it essential to the process of immediate union, that the parts be kept in perfect quietude. If the surfaces are allowed to rub upon each other in the least degree, the process is certain to be prevented, in which case, the wound can only heal by suppuration and granulation. The only exception to this general rule, which I can at present remember, is in the instance of simple fracture, when, after the lapse of six or eight weeks, the ends of the fragments have not united : in such a case, a little motion may ready be of service to induce that excitement which seems to be wanting; but even here, perhaps, after new action has thus been produced, perfect quietude is again necessary to allow the healing process to go on favourably. If a wound does not close in the manner above referred to, it must do so by that of suppuration, granulation, and cicatrization, and ought to be treated according to the methods recommended for these processes. When immediate union is not expected, the best plan is to foment aqd poultice, to encourage suppuration ; for, as I have previously stated, I believe that this event will, in some degree, alleviate the patient’s sufferings. Possibly there may be such a degree of inflam- mation as to render leeches advisable : sometimes it may be of a gan- grenous character: often it is erysipelatous—as in severe punctured wounds, or those received in dissections, when high action ensues, and the directions already given for the treatment of these different conditions will save repetition in this place.