amputations of the leg. 355 either aspect, and on whichever side the person who guides it is placed, the work of the saw may or may not be properly accomplished. If a well set instrument is used, there seems no good reason for insisting on the division of the fibula first. This bone cannot be kept so steady after the tibia is cut, and it is therefore more difficult to use the saw well upon it. To effect this last object, here, as in other parts of the body, the hand should always, if possible, be above the level of the blade. If the surgeon always stood on the inside of the leg, then the cutting edge could be placed obliquely, so as to give the best opportunity of using it in the most favourable position for the division of the fibula first, and also afford the most easy and efficient attitude for his own arm and body. If, however, he invariably stands on the outside, it is evident that, unless the limb be much turned inwards the fibula cannot be cut first, without the wrist being most disadvantageously depressed; but the limb and saw may be so held that the divi- sion of both bones can be accomplished about the same time, whilst the heel of the instrument is but a very little under the horizontal line. It seems to me, however, that the necessity for the division of the small bone before the large, has been made a matter of too much importance. If the operator resolves on dividing one bone before the other, he should see that the saw is of sufficient breadth : indeed, it is of more consequence to look to this in the leg than elsewhere, for if the ampu- tation is very high, the great thickness of the tibia in this situation should not be overlooked. Bysawing the bones individually, I have in certain instances observed that the fibula has been left somewhat longer than the tibia. This is a mistake which should be carefully avoided, for the prominence will not afterwards admit of any pressure on the part. Some have recom- mended that the fibula should actually be cut shorter than the other bone; but in my opinion it is best to leave them on the same level. When the amputation is very high, it has been proposed that the head of the fibula should always be removed for the sake of forming a better stump. This practice was at one time extensively put into execution in the Edinburgh hospital, by Messrs. Liston and Lizars ; but in consequence of the frequent occurrence of inflammation and suppuration within the knee, it was at length wholly abandoned. It has been averred that the synovial capsule at the head of the fibula very frequently communicates with that of the knee, and that, there- fore, when the small bone is removed on these occasions, there is every probability of the large joint being opened. I have not my- self observed the communication to be a frequent occurrence ; but the partition is on all occasions so very thin, that there will always be a likelihood of opening the knee in such a proceeding. Sometimes these gentlemen dissected out the end of the bone after the saw had been used ; at other times, when the amputation was very high, the tibia was alone cut with this instrument, and a knife was carried round the head of the small bone, from within outwards, whilst the