THE INFERIOR EXTREMITY. 240 aspects of the thigh, and on the inner side the internal saphena vein (major) must be traced upwards from the point where it has already been dissected. At the lower part of the thigh, this vein will be found on the inner surface of the limb ; but higher up, it gets more to the front, where it dips through the fascia to join the common femoral, about one inch and three-fourths below Poupart’s ligament. The po- sition of the upper end of this vein, its relation to the fascia, and the appearance of this membrane in the upper and anterior region of the thigh, require to be carefully attended to, as they are all of importance with reference to femoral hernia, and for a more minute description of these parts I must refer to the latter pages of the volume, where the anatomy of this kind of hernia is described; indeed, by far the best proceeding would be to make such a dissection in the up- per region of the thigh as is there recommended, previously to com- mencing the examination of the whole of its anterior surface. In elevating the upper angle of the inner flap of skin the loose in- guinal glands may be raised at the same time, and such of them as lie in the hollow between the iliac and pubic portions of the fascia lata, with the surrounding fat and cellular membrane, may either be raised at present or afterwards with the fascia. The aponeurosis should next be examined. An incision about two inches long should be made through the skin over the crest of the ilium, so as to allow the integuments to be more fully dissected towards the outer surface of the thigh, and thereby to expose a greater extent of the aponeurotic membrane. This texture will be observed to be firmly connected above to the crest of the ilium, to Poupart’s ligament, and to the os pubis, and below it will be found attached, along with the tendons of the extensor muscles, to the patella and upper part of the tibia and fibula. Notice should be taken of its strength and thickness on the outer side of the limb, and of its weakness and tenuity on the anterior and inner aspect. Over all the surface its fibres are most distinct, though it often hap- pens that portions of it are raised by a careless dissector, who, in con- sequence, supposes that it cannot be readily made out. The fascia lata may now be raised from the subjacent parts. An incision should be made through it, from the middle of Poupart’s liga- ment down the front of the limb, over the patella and its ligament, as far as the tuberosity of the tibia; another should traverse it, im- mediately below and parallel with Poupart’s ligament, and one por- tion may then be dissected inwards, the other outwards, so as to display the muscles and other organs with which it is in contact. At the lower extremity of the thigh it will be somewhat difficult to separate the membrane from the patella and its ligament, and also from the tendons of the vasti muscles, more particularly from the broad tendon of the vastus internus. In raising it from the patella, or perhaps in taking off the skin, a bursa will be observed in most subjects: the latter is variable in size, and usually irre- gular on its inner surface. In dissecting at the lower third of the thigh, little care is required further than to cut, as much as possible,