103 FALSE JOINTS. apparatus is applied ; but I think that it cannot be doubted for an instant, that a broken limb is in a much safer condition when properly put up in splints than when left altogether unprotected. I must refer, however, to my remarks on the treatment of fracture of the leg for further illustration on this subject. It may be observed that, in my notices of fractures of different bones, I make no particular allusions to separation of the epiphyses, diastasis, as the accident is called,—a kind of injury which is occa- sionally met with in the young subject; and the reason for this is, that I know of no difference of treatment which such cases may require, whilst every anatomist must be aware that a solution of continuity is more likely to occur in such situations than elsewhere. If they deserve especial comment, it is probably that crepitus will be less distinct, and also with reference to the proximity of the injury to a joint; but on the latter point, the principles of treatment for ordinary fractures are equally applicable, whilst if the symptoms of fracture are so obscure as to make crepitus essential to the diagnosis, it is evident that if there be a fracture at all, it must certainly be one of a most simple character. CHAPTER XXIII. FALSE JOINTS. Whatever care be taken with fractures, it will sometimes hap- pen that the fragments do not unite by means of bone. In such cases there is either a total absence of that vascular action which produces callus, or whatever amount of it there may be, there is no disposition towards union and consolidation of the parts which have been separated. Under such circumstances a false joint is said to have formed. Occasionally there is a very evident cause for non-union, whilst in some instances the utmost skill cannot divine any other than that which is the usual resource of our ignorance, viz., a peculiarity of con- stitution. I have seen one instance where I imagine the chief cause of non-union was the constant interference of the surgeon, who, in his anxiety to afford all the skill in his power, used to take down the splints, and put them up again every second or third day, so that the parts really had not that rest which is of such essential service in the early stage of treatment. I hope it will not be supposed that this is the kind of attention which I recommend in a preceding page; for when once all the parts and apparatus are properly adjusted, there should be no further interference, unless there is an absolute ne- cessity. In examples where the cause can be ascertained, the surgeon may not have the remedy in his power, or at all events he can but wait, in