EFFUSION OF PUS. 59 to, as absorption is sure to occur, provided all source of irritation be removed. In some of these cases, however, the disappearance of the swelling may be expedited by stimulants, such as friction with the hand or flesh-brush, or stimulating liniments, douches, and pressure by bandages. In some instances, too, where the swelling and induration seem peculiar to, or dependent upon, a specific condition of the consti- tution, as in certain kinds of chancre, or in a soft node, the internal and external exhibition of mercury or iodine, singly or combined, has a most beneficial effect apparently, although occasionally it may be doubted, whether, when swellings disappear under the use of these means, the benefit is to be attributed more to their efficacy, than to the time occupied in their application. Sometimes the lymph effused as the result of inflammation, forms a swelling so permanent, and, at the same time, so troublesome to the patient, that there may be every justification in using the knife for its immediate and effectual removal. The necessity for such a proceed- ing is by no means unusual on the prepuce, where solid oedema is an almost certain result of long-continued inflammation. CHAPTER X. EFFUSION OF PUS. Effusion of pus is a result of inflammation, which often adds greatly to the swelling, and is one of those consequences of this disease, which affords apt illustrations of the treatment of certain con- ditions of inflammation. This fluid may, like serum, be effused on any surface or on any texture of the body; but, for present purposes it will be best to refer to its formation, only in those where its pre- sence is most interesting to the surgeon. Although, in general, this consequence of inflammation is a most un- fortunate result,—as, for example, in erysipelas, in inflamed glands or joints, and in many other kinds of the disease in different parts of the body,—it is nevertheless earnestly to be desired in some in- stances. In effusions of serum, or of lymph, where there is little or no breach of continuity, or of surface, absorption may remove all traces of these conditions, and that consequence or termination of inflammation called resolution may ensue; but when pus has been secreted it rarely happens that it is absorbed,—it must be discharged from the body by a breach of surface, and, unlike the favourable cases of resolution, there must always be some mark left, to denote, ever after, that dis- ease and injury have been present. The case, also, will usually be more tedious, and there is greater danger to limb or life, when suppu- ration occurs. Hence, then, the anxiety of the surgeon to arrest the progress of an inflammation ere suppuration commences. Ihe occurrence of suppuration often produces alleviation of all the