PUNCTURE OF THE BLADDER. 547 the prostatic portion of the urethra or bladder, each capable of admit- ting a full-sized catheter, and which was the original (if it existed at all) it was impossible to say. Here, during life, an instrument had been frequently used, and, as was supposed, with great skill and dex- terity ; and certainly, in so far as the injuries went, the patient was none the worse, although assuredly there was no occasion for so many canals, for one would have sufficed ; and the surgeon, supposing that he had been conscious of having forced a passage at first, and that with a large catheter, should havegone through the artificial course on all future occasions. If I may venture to criticise the catheterism of such surgeons as have claimed superior dexterity in this operation, I should say that occasionally they have effected this manoeuvre, and led others to sup- pose that the instrument has been carried along the natural course. In my opinion the practice is the best that can be adopted; but, in giving it recommendation, I hope it will not be supposed that I sanc- tion carelessness as to the danger of thus wounding the neck of the bladder. The formation of a false passage is justifiable only in ex- treme cases, and when all other reasonable means have failed,—and then, in my opinion, it had better be made with the catheter in the manner referred to. Neither should it be supposed that this is the easiest mode of puncturing the bladder; — on the contrary, more tact with the instrument and a nicer knowledge of anatomy is required to succeed in this way than in the others referred to. Very little force will thrust the point of a catheter through the membranous portion of the urethra, and cause it to pass on one or other side of the prostate; but something more is necessary to guide it in the proper course; for, even when the surgeon has all the advantage of a wound in the perineum to assist him to guide the point of a catheter into the blad- der, he often finds it not such an easy task as he may probably have imagined. Supposing that the bladder is emptied in this manner, the catheter should be allowed to remain for four, six, or eight days, when it should be withdrawn, cleaned, introduced again, and,—the same move- ments being repeated at proper intervals,—retained until a callous pass- age is formed. Sometimes in cases of impassable stricture, in a part of the urethra anterior to that in which the proceedings above referred to are re- quired, it may be advisable to divide the obstruction with a knife, and thus permit the evacuation of the bladder and the introduction of an instrument at the same time. In certain instances, especially if the stricture were supposed to be very short, Mr. Stafford’s lancet-catheter (afterwards referred to) might be used, but in others it will be neces- sary to make an incision in the perineum. I have seen several in- stances in young boys who had been severely wounded in the perineum by an earthenware pot breaking under them:—the urethra had been opened, and its anterior part had closed in the cicatrix. In other in- stances in youth, the obstruction has been spontaneous; but such ex- amples are most frequently seen in the adult. Sometimes the imper-