.52 INFLAMMATION. absence of the huffy coat forms the principal criterion of the state of the disease, although it should not always be depended on; and in numerous examples, I believe, the surgeon will do well to test the immediate efficacy of his practice, by the apparent improvement of the symptoms, resulting from the method of blood-letting, above recom- mended. The state of the pulse ought not always to be relied upon ; for, as I have already mentioned, in some instances it may be smaller, and even slower, than in a state of health; and in certain conditions or peculiarities it may happen, that the heart's action will be so far affected by loss of blood and other causes, as to give that feeling of fulness and strength, which might lead to the supposition of a fur- ther depletion being necessaiy. Besides these measures, which may be said to constitute the most important parts of the constitutional treatment of inflammation, there are others, which often are of the last consequence, such as opiates, to allay irritation, and stimulants to rouse the depressed and sinking powers of life. The exhibition of camphor, ammonia, and wine, may prove of the utmost value in certain cases, which form, as it were, the exceptions to the general practice of constitutional depletion, which is so universally admitted as being the proper course to pursue in the treatment of this disease. Indeed, in some instances depletion may be carried too far, and unless the practitioner resorts to the use of stimulants, his patient’s life will be placed in as great jeopardy by the over-zealous application of the means of cure, as by the original disease. The diet of the patient may produce great influence for good or evil. It is seldom that authors or teachers neglect to caution against the use of animal food and exciting fluids in the early stages of in- flammation, though, in fact, there is but little need to do so ; for, so long as the disease is in full vigour, the patient loathes his usual diet, and when he does not, the disease can never be looked upon as of immediate serious importance. It seems to me almost unnecessary to inform the young practitioner that he should not insist on his pa- tient partaking heartily of chop or steak, when he may perceive that he can scarcely admit a morsel into his mouth without experiencing nausea. If the disease has really been formidable, it may be deemed a most favourable symptom when the patient asks for food ; and at this period there may be a necessity for caution, as over-exciting food, either from quality or quantity, may greatly retard the progress of cure. It may be requisite, in certain examples, to keep the patient on low diet, not so much for the purpose of curing inflammation, as witli a view to prevent its commencement or extension. For example, if a person suffered concussion of the brain from a blow on the head, it would be highly improper to permit full diet, as in such a case, after the first stunning effects have gone off, there may be good reason to dread the occurrence of inflammation ; again, if a large joint was wounded, or a large bone severely fractured, a generous stimu-