THE CHEST, ABDOMEN, AND PELVIS. 550 The introduction of instruments into the bladder being so frequently required on the living body, should be carefully studied on the sub- ject ; and in the dissecting-room many valuable opportunities are lost of acquiring both knowledge and dexterity in such proceedings. A catheter, bougie, and sound, should invariably be used in the dis- section of the male pelvis. One or other, or all three successively, should be introduced previous to dissection ; and when the lateral view of the pelvis, as described at p. 505, is under notice, each in- strument should again be passed, and its progress through every portion of the urethra carefully observed. Besides those of the usual curve (afterwards noticed), a straight instrument should be introduced, when, with a little management in depressing the handle, the point will be seen to glide along almost as readily as that of one with a curve. It seems sufficiently strange that the possibility of introducing a straight instrument into the bladder should not have been perceived until the fact was demonstrated by Gruithuisen about thirty years ago. The idea appears always to have prevailed that, as the urethra is naturally flexuous, a bent instrument was absolutely necessary to permit its point to pass along, while the flexible nature of the materials com- posing the tube was overlooked, as also that when the curve was fairly within the bladder the tube was actually on the straight part of the instrument. The student, with the urethra before him—either in the pelvis, and therefore attached to the bones and almost in its natural condition, or separated, as described in the dissection of these parts,— should, by introducing straight instruments and others with different degrees of curvature, satisfy himself of the fact that it may be made to assume almost any shape from a right angle to a straight line. These remarks are only applied to the healthy passage, however, for it does happen in disease that the canal assumes certain curves which even a solid rod of steel will not alter; as for example, in persons advanced in life, the prostate gland occasionally becomes so much enlarged, and that portion of the urethra within it is so greatly increased in length, and bent at the same time, that the bend is such as cannot be made straight excepting with considerable force, which is usually accompa- nied with great pain. Notwithstanding these circumstances, in using inflexible catheters or bougies such instruments should always, in my opinion, be curved at the point, as they thus more resemble the ordinary natural curve of the urethra near its vesical extremity, and therefore glide more readily along, until the point is in the bladder, when the straight part can be freely canned along the most fixed and least flexible portion of the tube. If a catheter is to be used, such a bend as that here ex- hibited (fig. 229) will generally be found most useful. The instra- ment for ordinary purposes should be made of silver, sufficiently stout to resist a moderate force, about the diameter of a goose-quill, nine inches long, and having apertures on the sides such as are exhibited in the drawing. Some prefer the small holes, others the large one, and a third party combine the two. The small openings