THE CHEST, ABDOMEN, AND PELVIS. 514 bleeding to death, although “ in a moment twenty hands were about the tumour, and the bag was filled with sponges and cloths of all kinds,” the intrepid operator “ ran the bistoury upwards and down- wards, and at once made an incision two feet in length,” by which he was enabled to secure the open vessel. The patient ultimately re- covered, although he was so exhausted from loss of blood, that he could not be removed from the operating theatre of the hospital for some time after. For such operations no rules are required further than those incul- cated in various parts of this volume, nor do I consider it necessary to occupy space by describing the ingenious dissecting-room proceedings whereby it has been proposed to carry a ligature round the common pudic artery where it lies behind the spine of the ischium. CHAPTER IV. HERNIA. OPERATIONS. A hernia in a state of strangulation is that form of the disease which is usually of most interest to the surgeon. Under ordinary circumstances the management is principally confined to the patient and the truss-maker. The surgeon may sometimes, however, be con- sulted regarding certain tumours, whose nature may be doubtful; and though it seldom happens that he has much difficulty in the diagnosis, cases are occasionally met with which may require more than usual care in their examination, and in some instances there is a degree of carelessness evinced, and such hasty conclusions are drawn, that much anxiety on the part of the patients and friends is sometimes caused by those who form too hasty opinions. I have known a truss ordered by a practitioner of great eminence and great experience of children’s complaints, in an instance of a boy about five years of age, where the testicle was presenting at the lower opening of the inguinal canal, and where there was no apparent disposition to protrusion of the bowels; and very recently an example has come under my notice where the testicle, in a somewhat similar case, had been completely wasted away by the continued pressure of a truss. Again, I have known the truss ordered and worn in instances of hydrocele and cirsocele in the adult, and although in the first of these affections little harm might accrue— excepting the anxiety of mind occasioned by the supposition that a rupture is present—it will be evident that the latter must in all pro- bability be increased. The history and diagnosis of such diseases need no especial notice here, and the hernia in a state of strangulation may therefore at once be taken under consideration.