39 SCARIFICATIONS. LEECHES. other instances the lancet is used for the purpose of opening the skin, in great tension of that texture from effusion of serum, as in anasarca, and also in the oedema resulting from erysipelatous inflammation. The scalpel, or bistoury, is often used in these cases; but many prac- titioners object to long incisions, more particularly in anasarca, and as the lancet makes openings sufficiently large for the purposes they have in view, they give it the preference. For all those proceedings the instrument is held between the thumb and forefinger, as after- wards represented, the position of the hand being occasionally varied according to circumstances. Sometimes the instrument is merely thrust in, so as to make a puncture, when it is withdrawn immedi- ately, whilst at other times it is carried along, so as to make a wound of some length ; but for the latter' purpose it is certainly less efficient than one of a more substantial size. Formerly a larger lancet was generally preferred for opening abscesses near the surface; but I can scarcely say that I have seen one of the kind for the last ten years, the scalpel or bistoury having been always used instead. When the lancet is used for the purpose of abstracting blood, it is generally in instances where a large vein, or an artery, such as the temporal, is to be opened; but, by making, with such an in- strument, a variety of punctures in the skin, a considerable quan- tity may be allowed to escape, more especially if means are used to promote its flow. Such means are found in the various forms of cupping apparatus. Instead of a single lancet, held between the fingers and thumb, being used to make the punctures, a num- ber of blades, six, nine, or twelve, are placed in a brass case, and so connected with springs, that by proper management, the whole of them may be carried through the surface in an instant, with a rapidity as great as the motion of a gun-lock ; and then, to promote the flow of blood, an exhausted receiver is placed over the wounds. The latter is usually made of glass, and various shapes and sizes have been recommended and used. The air has been exhausted in a variety of ways, too, as by the mouth, for example, the most ancient of all, applied either directly to the wound, or to an opening in the upper end of the receiver; a syringe has been used for the same purpose, or another receiver, from which the air has already been pumped out, has been placed over the cup covering the wound; but the flame of a spirit-lamp seems most in service with those who practise this operation. There are few instances in which local blood-letting is required where cupping will not be found applicable; but in some the lancet only can be used, or else leeches; and there are cer- tain cases where these seem the most applicable. On the hands or feet, the gums, the cervix uteri, or on hemorrhoidal tumours, leeches are usually deemed more advisable than the lancet. A variety of cir- cumstances may dictate the preference of one of these methods over the other, for abstracting blood locally; but I need not detain my readers to point out what common sense and observation may render apparent: for the sake of illustration, however, I may state that, on