EFFUSION OF SERUM AND OF LYMPH. 58 in ordinary anasarca: during the night, when the patient is in the horizontal position, these become much swollen, but during the day, when the patient sits up, they assume their natural appearance, owing to the serum gravitating towards the more dependent parts. Here there is little to be done, unless by constitutional means, which I need not particularly refer to; indeed, I allude to the circum- stance for the sole purpose of showing the advantage of elevating a part above the rest of the body, (in as far as that can properly be accomplished,) which happens to be in an cedematous condition. Sometimes the swelling of oedema seems so much greater than the skin can bear with impunity, that it is advantageous to make punctures with a lancet to permit the escape of serum. This practice has, with some surgeons, the additional recommendation of permitting the escape of blood, and thus alleviating inflammatory action. In erysipelas, for example, more particularly in the head and face, where it is often attended with great swelling, the plan of puncturing with a lancet has been much followed by some. I have often myself resorted to such treatment, especially in the oedema which attends the severe forms of phymosis and paraphymosis ; but position, and the exhibition of a smart saline cathartic, may do much to obviate the necessity for the lancet. In acute forms of this kind of swelling, the last-named means of treatment, and those usually followed for inflammation, may put all to rights again ; and in certain cases, where the action seems chronic, friction, or the application of a bandage, may be of service: both, however, must be used with caution, and any irregularity of pressure by the latter means must be avoided, for whatever impedes the venous circulation seems to conduce greatly to effusion of serum, as may be frequently seen in the case of fracture of the upper end of the humerus, where, in adjusting the splints, pads, and bandages, unless the hand and fore- arm are enveloped in a bandage also, and in addition suspended in a sling, there is every probability of oedema coming on. In certain forms of inflammation, instead of serous effusion there may be an exudation of lymph, and when this occurs in textures it may also occasion swelling, which is usually designated solid oedema, in conse- quence of the accompanying hardness, and in contra-distinction to that resulting from the presence of serum. It generally seems to be the effect of more chronic action than that which induces infiltration of serum, although this is by no means always the case, for sometimes the latter seems to be brought about by a slow irritation, whilst, on the other hand, lymph may be poured out within a few hours after the application of an exciting cause. As an illustration of the latter statement, I may refer to the rapid exudation of lymph succeeding to wounds, occurring, as it does, within a few hours after such injuries. Swelling resulting from the eftusion of lymph seldom acquires any magnitude, and is rarely such as to demand active surgical interfer- ence. In those cases where it is most common, such as in erysipelas, wounds, stumps, fractures, and dislocations, time alone may be trusted