LIGATURE OF ARTERIES. 399 to be tied. When this artery itself is the seat of operation, the thread is usually applied immediately above or below the digastric muscle, and consequently after three of its chief branches have been given off. The operation may be performed as follows :—The patient being placed as for the preceding operations, and the surgeon occupying a similar position, a lunated incision should be made extending between the mastoid process and the body of the hyoid bone, in the line indi- cated by the letter /in figure 190'; the skin, platysma myoides, and superficial fascia, should all be divided to about the same extent, when the lower part of the parotid gland will be brought into view near the posterior end of the incision : the margin of this gland should then be turned or drawn slightly upwards, and then the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid will be distinctly brought into view : the digastric and stylo-hyoid will now be exposed, and, by dipping a little deeper on the upper or lower margin of these conjoined muscles, the external carotid may be exposed just before it passes into the substance of the parotid. There may be one or more small veins in contact with the vessel; but the needle may be passed in any way the operator finds most convenient. Several veins of considerable magnitude will cross the line of incisions, and these must either be divided or held aside. Even in such large arteries as the subclavian, the sense of touch, as 1 have experienced, does not always enable us to feel the pulsa- tions of an artery; and in such an operation as that now under con- sideration the surgeon should trust more to his eye-sight than to the point of his finger: indeed, its accomplishment must be deemed more difficult than ligature of the common carotid, in consequence of the smaller size of the artery, and I may also say the greater depth. Fortunately, such a proceeding is rarely required. I have seen it done previous to removal of the upper jaw; but it may be considered a settled point that such a preliminary step is not requisite. In re- ferring to the surgical anatomy of this artery (p. 377), I have noticed an instance in which it was found in an unusual position, external to the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles. The superior thyroid has occasionally been tied in cases of goitre. In such an instance the guide to the vessel would be its own pulsa- tions near the skin, for unless it were ascertained by such proof, that the artery was enlarged, and therefore, probably, a considerable source of nourishment to the morbid growth, the operation would be worse than useless. On this subject more will be found in a future page, (411,) as also a drawing illustrative of the enlargement both of the gland and the arteries which belong to it. The lingual and facial arteries may be exposed at their roots; but such operations are seldom necessary. Mirault tied the right lingual, lmt failed in finding the left. Many years ago I saw Mr. Liston in the Edinburgh Hospital apply ligatures to both lingual arteries, for enlargement of the tongue, but no benefit resulted. The anterior end of the incisions above described for the external carotid may suffice, but were I to attempt operations on either of these vessels, I should begin the incision a little further forward, and not carry it so far back,