DISSECTION’S. 147 Fig. 55. The body should now be put face uppermost, and if it is that of a female, the skin should be dissected off the mamma, so as to obtain a view of this gland. This will be most readily done by making four incisions and a circular one in this style (fig. 55) on each side ot the nipple ; the gland may then be removed, and such an examination made of it as may be wished. The great pectoral muscle must next be exposed, and for this purpose an incision should be made from the acromion process along the clavicle to the upper end of the sternum, and then another from the same part of this bone to its lower extremi- ty, when the skin should be taken off from above downwards. In dissecting in front of the shoulder the anterior part of the deltoid should be laid bare by turning the skin forwards ; indeed, it will be as well at this stage of the dissec- tion to raise the skin from off the anterior and upper part of the arm, and also off the axilla, so as to allow of the first view of this impor- tant cavity. For this latter object the skin should be turned a little down on the side of the chest, and the margins of the peetoralis major and iatissimus dorsi muscles should be clearly displayed. The divi- sion between the clavicular and sternal portions of the pectoral muscle should now be examined ; next, that between this muscle and the deltoid: the former will probably not be distinct, at least there will be no great space between the two ; the latter will in general be of the same size, the two muscles being distant about an inch where they are connected with the clavicle, and in this space the cephalic vein and some branches of the arteria thoracica acromialis will be found. The manner in which the axilla is bounded should now be examined, and the effects of the changes in the position of the arm, when applied close to the side, or separated from it, should also be looked to. In the former position the axilla will appear deep ; in the latter so shallow, that every part of it may be reached and touched with facility. The pectoral muscle should next be raised by cutting it through at its attachments to the ribs, sternum, and clavicle, and turn- ing it outwards. The peetoralis minor will now be exposed, and by dissecting on its upper and under margins the axillary vein and artery will be discovered. In order to examine these vessels more fully, the fat and loose cellular membrane should be carefully removed from the axilla. In making this dissection, the numerous small vessels, nerves, and glands, which lie in almost inextricable confusion, should be care- fully preserved, and after being examined the nerves and glands should be cautiously cut away, and such of the vessels only as are of considerable size should be preserved. With very little trouble or further dissection, the entire course of the axillary artery and vein, as well as their relation to the axillary plexus of nerves, (which will by the same dissection be also exposed,) may be fully examined, and it