309 DISSECTIONS OF THE NECK. mastoid, from one end to the other, and the fascia may be dissected upwards and downwards, so as to expose the outer surface of that muscle, and also its anterior and posterior margins. The external jugular vein should still be left, and the superficialis colli nerve, which seems nearly parallel with the vein, and not far from it in this situation, may also be allowed to remain. If the handle of the scalpel is slipped under either margin of the muscle, it will now be seen that the fascia is so connected with a deep layer, that a kind of sheath is formed for the sterno-mastoid, throughout the greater part of its extent. The textures immediately above the clavicle may first be examined ; and for this purpose the flap of superficial fascia should be turned downwards, or removed in any convenient manner, care being given to preserve the external jugular vein, and notice taken of some twigs of nerves which run downwards in this situation, towards the skin, in front of the chest. When the cellular membrane is detached, the clavicle will be more fully exposed than hitherto ; the posterior margin of the sterno-mastoid will be more distinct, and the anterior border of the trapezius should also be cleanly dissected for an inch or more above its attachment to the clavicle. A space will now be distinctly observed between the two last-named muscles, which will vary in breadth according to the extent of attachment of each of them to the bone; in some subjects it will be about two and a half inches, in others much more, so that very little of the trapezius may be seen in the position in which the subject is supposed to lie in the present dissection. The exact limits above to this space need not attract much notice ; if the two muscles which form its lateral boun- daries have each a broad attachment to the cranium, they may approach so closely as to give it a triangular shape, but the upper part merits no especial attention from the mere surgical anatomist. Below, how- ever, there is much of importance. As yet only fat and cellular tex- ture will be noticed immediately above the clavicle ; but if a little of this be removed, the lower end of the external jugular vein will be more distinctly made out than hitherto ; in addition, the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid may now be seen passing obliquely upwards and inwards, and leaving a small triangular space between it, the cla- vicle, and the sterno-mastoid. This space varies considerably in size; sometimes the omo-hyoid is so low,—so close to the clavicle, that it (the space) is scarcely appreciable ; generally, however, it is of such dimensions, that there can be no difficulty in perceiving it. In some rare instances the muscle takes a few fibres from the clavicle, or occa- sionally is attached to this bone instead of the scapula (of both of which irregularities I have seen examples), and in such cases the muscular fibres occupy the usual place of the triangle. The omo-hyoid should now be drawn slightly upwards (if attached to the clavicle it should be divided), and by carefully detaching the fat and cellular substance lying between it and the first rib, the subclavian artery may be exposed in this situation, as also the important parts in its ‘2 B