207 EXCISION OF THE ELBOW. Fiii. 105. the ends of the hones to be fairly turned out ; and in all cases of ex- tensive disease, this had better be done at once ; in doing so, however, there is no necessity for exposing such an extent of their shafts as was formerly deemed requisite, as the saw (a common small ampu- tating one, such as is represented at p. 10, is the most efficient) may be used with perfect ease, without the presence of a broad spatula in front of the bone, as is recommended by some even in the present day; indeed, the method of removing the diseased portions of bone here described seems to me to constitute a most important difference from that resorted to by Moreau, who, in separating the “enlarged and rough ” end of the humerus, doubtless went far beyond the actual dis- ease, and thus made the wound unnecessarily extensive and severe. The sketches of the parts removed by him, in my opinion, sufficiently indicate this, and I hold it to be of the utmost consequence, in the performance of this operation, to distinguish between caries and that enlarged and hardened condition of the bone in the immediate vicinity of this disease, which, though altered in structure, may be allowed to remain, whilst, to insure success, the former must be taken away. Though in disease of the elbow-joint of old standing, it frequently happens that the swelling of the soft parts is very extensive, it by no means follows that the bones are affected in equal- proportion ; indeed, it most com- monly appears that the caries is limited to the articular surfaces or their imme- diate vicinity; and though large portions of the shafts of the bones have been oc- casionally removed with success, when the disease has necessitated such exten- sive wounds, a judicious advocate for ex- cision would, in all probability, in such a case, give a preference to amputation. The drawing on the side of this page (fig. 105) gives a beautiful represent- ation of the ends of the bones of this articulation in a state of caries. The cartilages have disappeared, and left the surfaces in the characteristic condition of this affection. The “ enlarged and rough ” extremities are likely enough to be mistaken for disease by those who are not familiar with such appear- ances, but the experienced eye can at once detect the difference, and the same individual knows that whilst in the thick and rough parts there is an excess of vitality, as it were (as evinced by the formation of new bone), there is