378 THE HEAD AND NECK. moved in front; but hitherto the two vessels will not have been sepa- rated from each other: this should now be done, when the par vagum will be found immediately behind and almost between them ; and if all these parts be held aside, the sympathetic nerve may be noticed in front of the spine, behind the sheath, but not intimately connected with it. If both internal jugulars can be examined at the same time, in all likelihood one will be found much larger than the other. These vessels are often irregular in their size; and I have in several in- stances observed that one was deficient. It is, therefore, not difficult to understand why one surgeon in tying the common carotid should have had great difficulty in keeping free of the vein, whilst another has not even seen it during the operation. At the root of the neck, the same reason, coupled with the fact that all the veins here are more or less irregular in different individuals, and in the same person at different times, will sufficiently explain the discrepancies regarding the veins which may or-may not have given trouble during operations in this situation. The larynx may be examined either at present or after the face has been dissected. If it is an object to economize, it will be best not to interfere until the proceedings described in a future chapter have been accomplished; but for the pui*pose of enabling me to refer in the next chapter to the operations on the neck, I shall here complete the de- scription of the mode of dissecting this part. The mylo-hyoid muscle should be cut across at its junction with that of the other side, and turned upwards, or it may be separated from the lower jaw and dis- sected down towards its fellow: in either way the genio-hyoid and genio-hyo-glossus muscles may be examined, and at the same time the sublingual gland, with its duct, and also that of the submaxillary may be traced, although they can be much better seen when a part of the jaw has been removed in the manner afterwards described. The larynx must now be removed; but before doing so, a glance shoidd be taken at the position of the oesophagus, which will be seen to project a little more to the left side than to the right, as it lies be- hind the trachea. If the lobes of the thyroid gland be at all enlarged, they will generally be observed to project backwards in such a way as to he against the sides of the oesophagus. In this stage of the dissec- tion it may also be well to pass the finger through the mouth into the pharynx, then to pass a probang or a stomach-tube down the oesopha- gus ; and some of the instruments used in operations here, (such as those referred to in future pages,) may be passed into the throat, pha- rynx, and larynx, so that their course and position will be better un- derstood on the living body. The attachments of the tongue in front and at the sides may now be divided: the pillars of the fauces, and the constrictor muscles of the pharynx, should next be cut, and the tongue, hyoid bone, larynx, trachea, with the thyroid gland, and the (Esophagus, should all be turned down, and the two tubes should then be cut across at the root of the neck. The parts thus separated, should now be more carefully examined.