106 ANEURISM. become, in some measure, smooth. From the flaccid state of the mus- cles, and apparent deficiency of vascular action, I was apprehensive of the result, more especially as the patient seemed to fall oft' in health daily. Nutritive food had no good effect, and I was at a loss what to do. Although assured by the patient that he had been temperate, I, from his looks, suspected the reverse, and ordered him a reasonable quantity of whiskey during the day. The change seemed marvellous ! within a week, his countenance brightened up wonderfully from its previous sickly and languid aspect, swelling took place around the seat of fracture, and in little more than a month from the time that I first commenced the use of the spirit, a most excellent cure was accom- plished. Had I not resorted to this most vulgar mode of treatment, I verily believe that this person would have died, and that, too, with- out the smallest reparative local action. CHAPTER XXIV. ANEURISM. The operations for aneurism, most commonly in use, will he care- fully described in future pages; hut the disease requires some separate notice at my. present progress. The symptoms of aneurism are generally so distinct, that there is sel- dom any difficulty in detecting the disease. A tumour, in the course of a large artery, pulsating synchronously with that vessel, diminishing in size, when the blood is prevented from passing into it, by pressure either upon it or upon the vessel nearer the heart, and accompanied by a pecu- liar sound, usually now-a-days termed “ bruit de soufHet,” which is re- cognised by applying the ear directly over the swelling, or through the medium of the stethoscope, can scarcely be mistaken for any other disease. But some of these symptoms are occasionally indistinct, and others not altogether to be relied upon. Tumour or swelling may de- pend on other affections, and pulsatory motion may be very indistinct, from the presence of fibrin, or it may be communicated by a contigu- ous artery. The “ bruit,” above referred to, is not esteemed by Mr. Porter and other recent authorities, as altogether infallible, and I have myself seen instances when it did not serve to clear up existing doubts. I have seen a most experienced and judicious surgeon cut through the parietes of the abdomen, with the intention of tying the external iliac artery, for a supposed aneurismal tumour situated imme- diately above Poupart’s ligament, which, however, in the progress of the operation, turned out to be a malignant affection of the lymphatic glands; and I have known the same excellent practitioner, for a tumour which baffled the diagnostic skill of many seniors around him, place a ligature on the main artery, under the supposition that the