348 THE INFERIOR EXTREMITY. Fig. 18.5 body it may be impossible to feel it, in consequence of the swelling of C parts; but these joints are so very easily opened, by any one acquainted with the anatomy of the foot, that there can be little' diffi- cuUy in accomplishing the operation. The future utility of that part which is left has been questioned by some; but from what I have seen o these piirtial transverse amputations in the foot, I should in general prefer them to more extensive mutilation above the ankle. It has been asserted that the heel is drawn so much backwards and upwards particularly in the case of Chopart’s operation, that the weight of the body will be thrown on the cicatrix and the anterior en s o t le bones ; but if the stump be kept in good position during e dressing, I do not think there is much cause for anxiety on this score. This stump (fig. 18.5), taken from one of my own cases, exhibits the extent to which the calcaneum and astragalus were acted on by the muscles of the calf. The bleeding during these proceedings on the toes or foot can be conveniently and efficiently arrested by an assistant compressing the tibial arteries at the ankle, or, if greater security is desired, a tourniquet may be put on at the knee as represented at p. 23. In performing these latter operations some transfix the sole of the foot with, a small catlin, and cut the flap from this part at the first: others instead of transfixing proceed from the surface in- wards; some open the joints below, others at the side, but I give the pre- ference to the plan described above. I would not, however, on all occasions limit myself to the articulations. If, for example, the proximal ends of the metatarsal bones could be saved, I would assuredly do so, and in such a case would make a semilunar flap on the upper part of the foot, as already directed, only a little nearer the toes; then another below by cutting from the surface of the sole obliquely backwards and upwards towards the bones ; next I would clear around each bone a proper space for the saw or forceps, and then with one or other of these would divide the bones. I have seen a most excellent and useful stump saved in this manner. If, further back in the foot, the cuboid and scaphoid bones could be pre- served, I should do so ; or, for the sake of saving as much of the organ as possible, I should bo inclined in some instances to divide these bones in their middle with the saw. In the dissecting-room one seldom hears of any amputations in the foot excepting at the joints, Hey’s and Chopart’s being the favourite exercises ; but occasionally it may