THE HEAD AND NECK. 3.00 the sterno-hyoid and thyroid muscles need not be meddled with ; but in every respect I should deem the operation more hazardous, and being attended with no advantage, that I am aware of, I should certainly prefer cutting for the artery in the manner first described. In some subjects the two portions of the stemo-mastoid have a con- siderable space or slit between them, and in the dissecting-room the ligature of the vessel has been exhibited, by cutting between the two, holding them aside, and leaving the fibres untouched. Such a process and on such an occasion is usually simple enough; but I should be amazed at any one seriously attempting it on the living body. The idea that it is meritorious to save the fibres of this muscle unin- jured, in an operation undertaken for an otherwise hopeless disease,— a proceeding, too, involving, it may be said, the immediate safety of the patient,—seems, in my view of the case, a refinement and nicety of operative surgery, which 1 cannot at all appreciate. The division of one half or even the whole of this muscle will not, in my opinion, make the smallest appreciable difference as to the ultimate success of the attempt thus made to save the patient’s life, whilst it will greatly expedite the proceedings; and large though the gap may be, there will be more safety for the patient at the time, and less pain too, I imagine, than if the surgeon were to limit himself to so narrow a wound as there must be by following such a course as that which has induced me to make these remarks. A single incision parallel witli the clavicle has been recommended ; but I would not limit myself if I found the wound deep and narrow, and the operation difficult. Such an additional cut as that marked d in figure 196, might be made with great advantage, or the knife might becarried straight upwards, so as to make the wound like an inverted , or like a cnicial incision but there need be no restriction as to the shape or size of the external wound, provided it is sufficiently free, and allows the parts beneath to be reached with facility. As already stated, this operation was first done by Mr. Colies, of Dublin, in Iff 11, and since then it has been repeated several times. Hitherto, however, it has invariably been unsuccessful. In the spring of 1841, I assisted my colleague, Mr. Partridge, in its performance on a patient in King’s College Hospital. It is not possible to imagine such a proceeding being better done, or with less injury to the surrounding parts. Every thing seemed favourable; the tumour small, and between the scaleni; the patient, a middle-aged, healthy, strong man, possessing great firmness and courage;—yet he died on the fourth day. The particulars of the case are given shortly in The Lancet for 1841. Taking into consideration the want of success attending this opera-