OPERATIONS ON THE LOWER JAW. 473 and alveolar processes in the mental portion of the maxilla, was seated on a firm chair, and an incision was made directly downwards from each angle of the mouth, as low as the base of the bone : the lip and soft parts between these wounds were then dissected towards the neck ; next, the posterior bicuspid tooth was extracted on each side, and a slight notch made with the saw, such as is delineated on the next page ; the same instrument was then applied in a horizontal direction midway between the alveoli and the base, and, a notch being made, the cutting pliers (fig. 14, p. 12) completed the separation. The ex- ternal wounds were then brought together by the twisted and inter- rupted sutures, a piece of lint was laid along the cut surface of the bone ; union occurred on the face, granulation aud cicatrization within, and a perfect cure was the result. The above drawing (fig. 214) ex- hibits the part which was removed. I heard of the patient years after, and he still continued well. The great advantage of such a proceeding is, that less deformity results than when the entire depth of the chin is cut away: the sides of the bone are prevented from falling inwards, as they invariably do in the other case : the jaw, in short, was left as if all the front teeth had dropped out,—just as may be seen in aged persons,—and there was sufficient foundation to affix a saddle with false teeth, had the pa- tient chosen, whereby the lip would have been supported in its natural position. I have been induced to allude to this case, both because such a mode of operating is less generally known than by perpendi- cular division of the entire thickness of the bone, and also from sup- posing, from what I have myself seen, that it might be advantageously adopted in some instances where more severe measures might be con- templated. The steps above described might be more troublesome towards the back part of the alveolar ridge, yet by judicious incisions externally they might be accomplished in a satisfactory manner. In certain cases it is absolutely necessary to remove the base as well as the alveoli, and, supposing the disease to be in the mental portion