339 INCISIONS. EXCISIONS. the affected parts away. I should myself place most reliance on this instrument; hut, if the disease proved extensive, should be inclined to divide the attachments of the glutei to the upper and fore part of the process, and then effect the removal of the entire trochanter by the united aid of a saw and forceps. A small Key’s saw would be more manageable here than any other. In some instances of necrosis of the femur, the surgeon may be of much service by judicious interference, although, unfortunately, con- sidering the frequency of the disease in the shaft of this bone, the cases are but few in number where any attempt should be made to remove the dead part. I have seen a large portion of the shaft taken away through an opening in the front of the thigh ; but in that instance, the plan of treatment was very clearly indicated : two inches of the necrosed portion of bone projected through an ulcer in the soft textures, and, nature having already nearly effected the complete se- paration, the surgeon had oidy to take hold of the sequestrum with his fingers, and apply a little force to pull it out, at the same time touch- ing with the edge of the knife such of the soft parts as seemed to offer any resistance. But it seldom happens that the dead portion is thus thrown out of the axis of the limb, and in general before it is loose it has become so enveloped with new bone that the surgeon dare not interfere. Of the many cases of this kind which have come under my notice, there has seldom been any choice beyond amputation, or lingering illness; and among the instances where I have succeeded in removing any portion of bone, the following is the most re- markable. A boy, aged sixteen, had suffered for two years from necrosis of the lower third of the femur: when he first came under my notice the whole shaft was thickened, and the new bone seemed most developed at the lower end, just above the condyles, where, through several openings of the skin, a large dead portion could be felt with the probe. Perceiving that this sequestrum was surrounded by a thick case of new structure, I entertained little hope of saving the limb; yet, to ascertain the possibility of extraction, I laid open one of the sinuses situated on the outer margin of the tendon of the biceps, and exposed one of the openings in the new bone; next the edges of this opening were pared with the gouge and forceps, and having with these means taken as much liberty with the new bone as was deemed justifiable, I then attempted to pull away the sequestrum with a pair of strong forceps, but finding that I could not succeed, gave up the at- tempt in despair. A month after, the boy’s health having in the interval improved considerably, I again resolved to try extraction, and on this occasion used the cutting instruments still more freely, when after much labour (for such a term is most applicable to some of these operations), I succeeded in extracting a portion of dead bone about four inches in length, and comprising the whole thickness of the original shaft: there were several smaller portions which had been previously cut off with the forceps, to permit of the more ready removal of the main part: indeed, it was my intention on this occasion to have cut the