456 FU/. 209. through the anterior openings, or so press- THE HEAD AND NECK. skill in rhinoplasties seems to be such that he will repair or rear up this most important feature with all the genius of a Telford, and finish his handiwork with the Phidian touch of a Chantrey. Occasionally in children foreign bodies, such as pickles of grain, peas, beads, cherry-stones, and such like objects, get into the nostrils, and require removal. I have known a cherry-stone remain for years, and the case supposed to be one of diseased bone. A probe, a small scoop—such as the handle of a director, (p 18,) a blunt hook, dissect- ing forceps, or instruments similar to those in the next cut, will seldom fail, if judiciously used, in furthering the extraction of such sub- stances. When polypi in the nostrils assume such a size as to cause annoy- ance, whether from altering the tone of voice, preventing respiration through these passages, from protruding ing upon the soft palate and into the pharynx as to cause difficulty both in re- spiration and deglutition, they should be removed by operation. In general, such an instrument as that here represented, (fig. 209,) will enable the surgeon to effect his intentions, thus:—The patient being seated, the blades of the forceps must be passed into the nostril, one on each side of the growth, if possible, when they should be' closed over its roots, and then with- drawn by a twisting, pulling-motion, so as to separate the disease from the mucous membrane above. In some instances this can be done readily, and with one applica- tion of the instrument; at other times it must be introduced again and again, when the substance is removed piecemeal; and the best criterion of the operation being complete is, that the patient can breathe freely through the passage. Sometimes it is necessary to repeat the proceeding in the course of a few weeks or months, as the ordinary simple gelatinous polypus, unless it be thoroughly removed, is almost sure to grow again. In certain instances when the tumour is of considerable size a ligature may be most advisable: this being drawn tight round the root of the mass will cause its strangulation, when it will separate in the form of a slough. Whipcord, catgut, or silver wire, may be used on these occasions, perhaps the two latter are best from their elasticity, and either may be applied thus : A por-