67 SINUS. of the openings (for there may be more than Fiy. 53. one), and then the skin should be divided in all directions where there are spaces under- neath. The point of the fore-finger of the left hand should be freely used on these occasions, in tracing out wherever the matter may have burrowed, and also in breaking down the loose and flabby adhesions which are occasionally found in different parts of these cavities: it generally answers better than the common probe ; and the additional pain, and, I may add, apparent rudeness, will be amply com- pensated by the more certain cure that will be the result. When a patient is subjected to such a proceeding, it had better be done effec- tually, once and for ever. I feel assured that the want of success from using the knife on these occasions is from not attending to this circumstance. The most experienced surgeon cannot always be sure in what different direc- tions sinuses may run, unless the linger be used as directed above. Perhaps a single line of incision through the skin may suffice ; but, in general, if the space be large, and the necessity for free exposure great, there need be no hesitation about notching the sides of that already made, and thus making a crucial in- cision. It has occasionally been the custom in modern times, to divide the parts with a strong thread instead of a knife, a relic of an- cient practice, which no surgeon of the present day should countenance, being more painful and less certain in its effects than the other; and being, moreover, a kind of return to that barbarous and do-no-better surgery of former years, which inculcated amputation of limbs by a similar process, viz. that of encircling a part with a cord, which should be gradually tightened more and more, until the part should drop off. Sometimes, in using the knife freely in these proceedings, the bleeding is considerable; but a ligature rarely is required, provided the operator has a moderate share of anatomical knowledge to guide him in making the incisions. The lint, with which the gap should be filled, will usually stop the effusion. Warm dressings, and occa- sional fomentations should next be resorted to, and the treatment afterwards should in every respect, almost, resemble that required after the opening of an abscess, as already described. It is not always that an old abscess or sinus can be thus treated,