OPERATIONS ON THE NOSE AND NOSTRILS. 457 tion twelve or eighteen inches long should be doubled, taking care not to injure its elasticity at the bend; this part should then be pushed along the floor of the nostril until it reaches the pharynx, where it will be allowed to expand; and now the point of the forefinger should be passed along the mouth into the throat, and so managed as to push the gut or wire behind and above the growth; when this is accom- plished the ends must be introduced through a small double canula, which should be slid along upon them as high up as the root of the disease seems to extend, and thus the noose will be further upwards than the finger can push it: one end of the ligature may then be fas- tened to the ring at the side of the canula, and the other must be drawn so tight as to obstruct (ill circulation in the part: it may then, if allow- ed to remain, be fixed to the ring of the tube, and tightened from day to day, until the separation is effected. I have frequently used the ligature as thus directed ; but have almost invariably drawn it through the mass which has, therefore, been removed at once, and I have never seen reason to dread the hemorrhage which some seem to apprehend on these occasions. Sometimes I have found the part so compressible, that it came readily through the nostril in front; but occasionally I have withdrawn it by the mouth, and when the projection behind is large it is well to be careful in case of its dropping into the lower part of the pharynx, or possibly covering the orifice of the larynx. If it could be effected with safety, I should on all occasions separate the part at once, instead of leaving it to slough; but, if the latter were deemed most eligible, I should prefer a silver wire to any other liga- ture, and choose it, too, before the forceps which have been recom- mended by Sir Charles Bell and others for the purpose. When a polypus is very large in front so as to have caused absorp- tion of the nasal process of the superior maxilla, the nostril may be slit open, and the disease extracted through the aperture by means of the forceps. I have known a growth six ounces in weight successfully removed in this way; and were it necessary the upper lip also might be divided. The edges of the wound must afterwards be carefully approximated, and immediate union encouraged. The diagnosis of tumours of this description is seldom difficult ; the object being generally observable, especially in damp weather, in the anterior part of the nostril. I have known a bend in the cartilaginous septum mistaken for one, and have also seen the thickened Schneid- erian membrane supposed to be a gelatinous polypus. In some in- stances large growths of the kind, in the back part of the nostrils, above the soft palate, have been entirely overlooked for years. Twice I have seen soft tumours of the antrum attacked with the forceps, under the impression that the disease was, in each instance, confined to the nostril. One of these cases occurred to myself: there was no swelling in the cheek, nothing to induce suspicion that the disease was not a common nasal growth ; the other was similar in appearance and history; in both as soon as the anterior part was removed, and it was