210 THE SUPERIOR EXTREMITY. have succeeded in removing fragments of necrosed and carious bones through such wounds,—in which, however, I did not open the cap- sule,—I give a decided preference to freer incisions, whether the head of the bone is to be removed for gun-shot injury or for caries. These may sometimes be advantageously made by laying open sinuses, and the operator need not be prevented from doing so, by any fear of the effects of dividing the deltoid freely; but, as a general rule, I recommend the adoption of a plan similar to that originally followed by Morel. The patient being seated, or laid on his back with the shoulder raised, an incision should be made with a strong bistoury, commencing opposite the coracoid process, and ending about an inch behind and below the root of the acromion. It should be semilunar in shape, as represented in the upper dotted line in the figure on page 233, exhibiting amputation at the shoulder on the right side; the extreme convexity should be about four inches under the acromion, and thus the greater portion of the deltoid will be included in this flap. In the drawing alluded to, the knife is represented as being about to be thrust in below the root of the acromion. On this side it will be most convenient to do so, especially if the surgeon stands a little in front of the patient, and on the left shoulder the wound may be made to commence as above directed. However, the operator may suit his own taste in these matters. The skin and deltoid being divided, the flap should be drawn upwards, a few touches of the knife being sufficient to separate the loose connexions of this muscle. A bold incision should next be made through the tendons attached to the tuberosities on the humerus, dividing them and the capsule at the same time to such an extent, as to permit the head of the bone being turned out by a slight twist of the arm below. This part should then he laid hold of by the surgeon, or an assistant, and held steady whilst the common saw (p. 10) is used to remove as much of it as may be deemed neces- sary. If the operation is done for a shattered bone, its head can- not be thrust out like the end of a lever, as thus directed, and therefore the surgeon must make the best use of his fingers, or any convenient hook or forceps, to enable him to raise the fragments. The diseased or injured portions being separated, the glenoid cavity should next be carefully examined, and if disease be present, it should be scooped away with a gouge, or cut off with pliers, either straight or curved, as represented in previous pages. The lower surface of the acromion should also be examined and scraped, gouged, or the whole process removed, according to circumstances. In the first incision, the knife will probably divide the cephalic vein, and some branches of the thoracica-acromialis: these, however, should give no trouble, and throughout the operation the only large vessel inter- fered with is the posterior circumflex, which will be cut in dividing the posterior margin of the deltoid. A ligature will be required, which may be put on before the head of the bone is meddled with, or afterwards, as may be found most convenient:—the hemorrhage in the interval being commanded by the finger of an assistant. All