CONCUSSION. COMPRESSION. 427 it may run over half, or more, of the cranium : at other times, there is a wide gap, occasioned either by extensive separation of the fragments, —a kind of expansion of the skull, as it were,—or by a portion being depressed : again, the solution of continuity may be in the body of a bone, or between two or more in the seat of a suture ; or it may ex- tend from one to another across the latter. Occasionally the outer table may alone be depressed, as at the frontal sinuses, or possibly into the diploe, or it may happen that the inner table gives way while the outer resists. The scalp may or may not exhibit an external wound : the dura mater may or may not be lacerated : its largest artery (mid- dle meningeal) may or may not be tom across: the sinuses may suffer or remain entire, and the brain itself can scarcely escape from a func- tional and physical lesion. The circumstance of a fracture being simple or compound (in the usual acceptation of these terms) is of little consequence here : assured- ly a compound one, coeteris paribus, must be deemed the worst; but the injury done to the brain at the time of the accident, or the subsequent effects upon this organ, are what chiefly attract the especial notice and care of the practitioner. However, in the elementary and mechanical details even here, various general rules are applicable, which the young surgeon should be familiar with. First, then, it is known that such an injury cannot be sustained without a certain amount of that effect so well understood by the term concussion. This state is charac- terized by insensibility, slow and small pulse, quiet respiration, pale and cold surface, contracted pupil, and is usually contrasted with that termed compression, which is recognized by a full pulse, though slow, loud breathing (stertorous), surface probably hot, and of usual colour, pupil dilated, and the retina insensible to light, with paralysis more or less distinct. Unless the injury be very severe, the patient soon recovers from the state of concussion, and his condition comes nearer to that of a state of health : it may happen that an excess of reaction, as it were, takes place, and inflammation within the cranium ensues. At first, the practitioner’s object should be to rouse the patient from this con- dition : cordials, stimulants, warmth, and blood-letting, are the ordi- nary means: the latter plan is generally resorted to at the earliest period possible, and though in so far as the mere state of the pulse goes, the method is in contradiction to the usual doctrine of not bleed- ing in a state of shock, I believe that in some instances it may be of the utmost value. Professor Reid, of St. Andrew’s, found that after producing concussion in a rabbit, the right auricle of the heart became unable to act in consequence of over-distention, and that the animal died under these circumstances : if, on the contrary, another was injured in a similar way, and a vein in the neck opened to lessen the quantity of blood in the vessels leading to the part, its action continued, and recovery took place. When the patient is roused, his condition must then be carefully watched, and should symptoms of over-action (inflammation) show themselves, the lancet,