331 CHAPTER VII. INCISIONS. EXCISIONS. Besides the incisions already referred to, many others are required for special purposes. The surgeon may find it necessary to remove a portion of the nail of the great toe for incurable ulceration at its root and margin. When in this painful form of uiceration (onychia—as it is sometimes called), it is found that the usual ointments and lotions, with the occasional application of lunar caustic, produce no benefit, there should be little hesitation about removing a portion or the whole of the nail, as may be required, and the proceeding may be accom- plished thus:—One blade of the scissors (p. 30) should be thrust up- wards between the nail and the soft parts as far as the root (matrix), and then by closing the instrument, the nail is split or cut longitudi- nally, when with strong rough-pointed forceps (p. 7) the free end of the part should be seized, and by a twist towards the back of the toe its removal will be effected: next, if it is necessary, the other half may be treated in the same manner. If there has been suppuration under the nail, this proceeding is simple, and attended with a slight amount of pain in comparison to the case where the horn is still firmly attached by most of its under surface. In the latter instance, how- ever, it is fortunate that only a small portion of the lateral margin need be interfered with. Under any circumstances there is exquisite pain, and therefore the manoeuvre should be speedily accomplished by a firm hold, and a somewhat rude and forcible twist and pull. The whole amount of pain had better be occasioned in an instant than by repeated trials with improper forceps, or an over-lenient use of the hand. Incisions may be required on any part of the lower extremity for erysipelas; but these need no particular notice here, neither is it necessary after what has been stated at p. 200, and elsewhere, to refer in a special manner to tumours on the lower extremity, or the operations which may be deemed requisite for their removal. Gan- glions are by no means unusual on the dorsum of the foot with those who wear tight boots, and have a high instep; but having already so frequently alluded to such proceedings as may be required for this ex- cision, I need not do so again in this place. The disease termed “ housemaid’s knee,” however, is deserving of separate notice. This affection is an inflammation of a bursa, which is in front of the patella in most individuals, more especially in those who from their occupation (as paviers, sailors, housemaids, Ac.) subject the parts in this situation to much pressure and friction. The inflammation is usually attended with effusion, first of serum, and then of seropurulent matter; an abscess is the result, and though in the early stages, the disease may sometimes be arrested by leeches and