THE INFERIOR EXTREMITY. 314 sions, and should, of course, be carefully avoided; but the wounds, either in the upper or middle third of the thigh, should be made suffi- ciently towards the mesial line as to avoid this vessel. The saphena nerve is gene rally on the outer margin of the artery, outside of the sheath, and away from the reach of the surgeon; if, however, the operation be done very close to the sartorius, it may possibly be in the way, and should therefore be held to one side. The vein is partly on the inner side of the artery, but chiefly behind it: too much care cannot be taken to avoid this vessel in using either the knife or the needle : the edge of the former should be applied cautiously in divid- ing the sheath, and the point of the latter, being first insinuated be- tween the vein and artery, should be carried outwards in close contact with the last-named vessel. Many . _n examples have been known of in- *9' ‘ ' jury of the vein in this operation, and have been referred to by Cooper, Carmichael, and others: I have myself seen one instance where the point of the needle as it was carried round the artery was thrust through the vein; the hemorrhage was co- pious on the instant, but as soon as the ligature was tightened (no at- tempt was made to alter its posi- tion) it ceased, and though that patient afterwards died of phlegmo- nous inflammation and secondary hemorrhage,—and which of the two was the immediate cause of death it was difficult to say,—I cannot at- tribute the fatal result to this mis- hap, though I must, nevertheless, repeat my caution to avoid the ves- sel. In an instance in which Sir Charles Bell had cut down upon this artery in the usual manner, and placed a ligature upon it, the pulsations in the tumour continued, and it was afterwards ascertained that the vessel was double. No other similar case has ever been met with in practice, in so far as I know, but such an irregularity has occasionally been seen since in the dissecting-room. The sketch (fig. 170) exhibits the lincs'of incisions above recom- mended, the under one showing where Hunter applied the kniie, the upper being the situation recommended by Scarpa. lor the conve-