AMPUTATION’S OF THE LEG. 349 be well to keep tliese hints in view. The recommendation seems like a recurrence to the old and rude method of chopping off a part with the aid of the chisel, mallet, and block, or of severing the disease with a single grasp of strong forceps, as used to be the summary work of ancient surgeons ; but it must be kept in mind that in reality the preservation of flaps forms the most important feature in the modern operations; indeed, I am inclined to suppose that Mr. Hey, if we may judge from his own remarks, seemed to consider this as the chief feature of his own method, for in the first instance in which he pre- served flaps he did not limit his incisions between the tarsus and metatarsus, but actually removed a considerable portion of the former. Although on the dead subject the foot may be readily separated at the ankle, and the proceeding has on one occasion at least been ac- complished on the living subject, it is an operation liable to so many objections, and presenting so few advantages, if indeed any can be claimed for it, that its consideration may with all propriety be omitted in such a work as this. When it is necessary to sacrifice the ankle, amputation in the leg may be effected in any part of its extent, according to the nature and seat of disease or injury. At one time it has been the fashion (this word being more applicable to the practice of surgery than some imagine) to amputate close above the malleoli, at another time close to the upper end of the tibia, and, again, the incisions have been made at all the in- termediate distances: all these having been done by the same surgeon at different periods in his practice, whilst others have adhered, when circumstances would permit, to one particular part. Mr. Hey, finding that the stumps which he made immediately above the ankle did not on all occasions heal kindly, resorted at last to the middle of the leg, where he could procure more ample covering to the ends of the bones; and some I have known so dissatisfied with the amputations which they have performed close to the knee, that they have come down- wards ; thus, as it were, causing the two extremes to meet. In by far the greatest number of amputations in the leg which I have witnessed, the incisions have been made in its upper tim'd, and I have myself pursued a similar plan. Most of the patients have been in hospitals, and the common doctrine that persons in this rank of life can more readily procure a wooden leg on which the body may be supported with the knee bent, than any other substitute having the resemblance of a natural leg and foot, has probably been the chief reason for operating so high. If the knee is afterwards to be kept bent, a long stump projecting behind will be inconvenient, unseemly, and exposed to injury. But the knee may be kept straight, and an artificial limb applied, much lighter in appearance than the clumsy apparatus in common use, equally efficient, and also as moderate in price. This method, though still practised on the continent, and of old date among our own surgeons, has been almost entirely neglected till of late, when it has been revived by some practitioners. I have myself for several years been in the habit of preserving nearly a