437 ENTROPIUM. ECTROPIUM. out and retained in their proper position. The slip of skin should be about an inch in length, and two or three lines in breadth : it may he seized, raised, and held steady with common dissecting forceps, or such as are made for the express purpose, with broad flat points, which in- clude the portion of skin about to be removed. Scissors, such as those referred to in pp. 6 and 30, will answer for these proceedings, although most generally those having a slight concavity at the cutting part of the blades are selected. 1 have seen a portion of skin, of the extent above mentioned, destroyed by strong acids; but, from what I have said in the introductory part of this volume on the use of caustics as a substitute for incisions, it may be perceived that I should not re- commend such means here. Other ingenious plans of treating this condition have been devised by Ware, Crampton, and others, but the plan above described I have often seen to answer admirably. The upper lid is most commonly affected in this way. In other instances the eyelids are everted when the condition is termed ectropium. Sometimes it arises from tumefaction of the con- junctiva in acute ophthalmia (especially in a purulent form), on other occasions it seems to result from relaxation of the margin, and also of the mucous lining, whilst again it is often caused by contractions of granulations in the vicinity. It is most frequently seen in the lower eyelid, although inversion and eversion may be noticed on either. In purulent ophthalmia the proper treatment of the disease serves to cure the eversion. Doubtless, the swelling in such cases is chiefly connected with the eyelids, but it may be also occasioned by the tume- faction of the conjunctiva on the surface of the globe, and it is in such cases that the mode of relieving tension, so strongly recommended by Mr. Tyrrell, may be most advantageously resorted to. The incision with lancet, knife, or scissors, should be made in a direction parallel with the course of the superficial blood-vessels; and thus, whilst relief is given by permitting the escape of serum, destroying some of the enlarged vessels, and lessening the distention of others, sufficient will be left to preserve the vitality of the cornea; and thus also, as that gentleman supposes, diminishing the chances of sloughing of this part, which is by no means unusual in this acute form of inflammation. If the incisions are made in the conjunctiva of the eyelid, they may be carried in any direction which shall be found most convenient. When the eversion depends on chronic relaxation, such astringents as may bring the mucous surface into a more natural condition may be of service; but often it will be advantageous to remove a slip of the membrane by scissors; a portion about a line in breadth and three in length may suffice. At first, of course, there will be no benefit, but as the granulations on the wound contract, the margin of the lid will be gradually drawn into a proper position against the ball. When this does not suffice, then a piece of the margin of the eyelid should form, its edges drawn