THE INFERIOR EXTREMITY. 31G a proceeding is doubtless somewhat equivocal also. In such a course pressure should be applied by the thumbs of a steady and trust- worthy assistant, then by enlarging the orifice in the track of the ori- ginal wound, the artery should be exposed, separated slightly from the vein, and secured with threads. But such operations are more easily talked about, and described on paper, than done on the living subject: the person who attempted such a practice as that referred to, would require great coolness and confidence in his own resources, as well as considerable nicety in manipulation, and supposing infiltration of blood to have taken place, much difficulty might be anticipated in accomplishing the object immediately in view. In making a selection of either course of procedure, the practitioner will assuredly feel himself in a most eventful dilemma : if the patient is let alone, loss of life must be the result; and pressure, if it be tried in such a case, is uncertain, and unsafe too; for if it be sufficient to stem the current in the artery, the vein will be compressed also: how, and what to do then, he will have difficulty in deciding, and what- ever course he may think fit to pursue, the patient’s safety must be considered in the utmost jeopardy. Ligature of the common femoral artery is seldom performed now-a- days. It was done before Mr. Abemethy performed his first opera- tion on the external iliac artery, and has since been recommended by some as a preliminary step to amputation at the hip-joint. For the latter purpose I do not consider it at all necessary, and the superiority of the operation on the iliac seems so great that there can- not be a doubt which should be selected. On the dead subject the vessel may be easily displayed by making an incision in its course about three inches long, the upper end of it being a little above Poupart’s ligament: the skin and superficial fascia being cut through, the aponeurosis of the thigh should be cautiously divided about an inch below the ligament; the sheath of the vessels should next be opened with equal care, and the artery being slightly denuded, should be sur- rounded with the needle, the point of which should be carried from within outwards; for though there is a slip of cellular texture between the two vessels here, the vein might be injured were the instrument carried in the opposite direction. A good anatomist may make the incision so strictly over the artery, that he will probably not see the vein at all, as it lies on the inner side. The inguinal glands and the arteries connected with them may attract little attention; but on the living bod}’, they might occasion considerable trouble, and I have known them do so in operating on the upper course of the superficial femoral, as well as on the lower part of the external iliac. 1 he trou- ble arising from these sources, then, more particularly from the divided arteries, as well as the proximity of their origins to the seat of liga- ture, ns also of the pudendal branches, the circumflex, and epigastric arteries,— the circulation through all of which might prevent the closure of the main artery, and, in addition, when, it is considered that in the subsequent movements of the thigh, however slight, the