DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 503 perficial perineal artery and nerve may be observed. If the point of the finger is thrust deep in this space, it will meet resistance from a ligamentous texture, which may possibly be seen by holding the bulb of the urethra a little to one side, and separating it slightly with the point of the knife:—this is the lower part of the trian- gular ligament. The accelerators and erectors, with the transver- sales, may now be removed, when the bulb of the urethra and the crura penis will be displayed. If a careful dissection be made in the inner margin of one of the erectors, close upon the bone, the common pudic artery may be exposed, and can be traced backwards as far as may be chosen. If the tendinous structure between the bulb of the urethra, or rather the acceleratores and the anterior margin of the sphincter, be now divided, the latter, with the anus and lower part of the rectum, may be turned back, so as to permit an examination of the membranous portion of the urethra and the lower surface of the prostate. It will be better, however, to delay this part of the examin- ation until a lateral section of the pelvis has been made, to effect \yhich the dissector should next proceed. The feet and hands being untied, the saw should be carried through the left os pubis in a line with the tuberosity and the descending ramus, and placed in a direction somewhat parallel with the latter: then the left leg should be forcibly abducted, so as to loosen, and in a manner tear open, the sacro-iliac junction : the knife must be used to complete the section, and the loosened portion of the innominatum should be separated by itself,—every texture being so cut as to leave' it as much as possible in its natural position. The bladder should now be slightly distended with air passed through a ureter by a blowpipe or catheter; and first the obturator intemus should be cut away, when a layer of strong aponeurotic fibres (obtura- tor fascia) may be observed on the surface, from whence it has been raised : this will have an abrupt termination below where it has been divided from the ischiuiji, and above it ‘will be joined with the other textures which have been cut from the osseous brim of the pelvis. At its lower margin the common pudic artery and internal pudic nerve may be observed. This layer, which by some has been described as one from the pelvic fascia, should then be cut off, and by the removal of some cellular tissue, the outer surface of the levator ani will be dis- played. The lower attachments of this muscle to the anus, rectum, and that of the opposite side, may at present only be looked at: it should now be turned downwards,—for which purpose it may proba- bly be necessary to separate the peritoneum from its upper end,— when a layer of aponeurosis will be observed on its inner surface, possessing such strength towards the pubes and neck of the bladder, and so reflected upon the latter, that the point of the finger can nei- ther be pushed down nor up. The levator muscle may now be cut across midway between the bladder and rectum, and its ends either completely removed or turned down and up. In either case the out- line of these two viscera will be made more distinct, but care should be