158 THE SUPERIOR EXTREMITY. playing at leap-frog with his companions, fell upon his hands, and thus sustained the injury in one arm. If this accident is seen hy the surgeon shortly after its occurrence, the two bones can be drawn down with little trouble into their proper situation. The forearm. wlnVli will ta a 1I*+1a +1.„ „i u be drawn down in the axis of the humerus, and, by bending it a little further, in all likelihood the bones will be replaced. An additional force must be applied, should there be much difficulty ; but care must be taken, more particularly if the injury be of some standing, not to apply a great degree of violence, as this may be productive of more serious injury to the joint, by the additional inflammation thereby induced. Dislocations of the bones of the elbow, forwards or in a lateral direction, are of very rare occurrence, and can happen only in violent injuries ; the former accident being, as already stated, complicated, in all probability, with fracture of the olecranon. Any surgeon, however, who has seen much among the lower orders, as in dispensaries and out-patient hospital practice, must agree with me in thinking, that it is impossible to say what dislocations may not take place in this articulation. I have myself frequently seen the joint in such a distorted condition, from injuries of old date (probably luxations and fractures combined), that the most experienced anato- mists have been unable to appreciate the true condition of the ends of the bones ; and in many of these cases the facility of movement was remarkable, as was also the muscular development, which was such as to give the parties an excellent command over the extremity. The two sketches (figs. 67 and 68) of the lateral displacement of both bones,—the one inwards and the other outwards, will give some idea of such injuries, although I imagine that on the living body the regu- larity here delineated would not be so perfect; for the force which would cause such displacements would, in all probability, produce se- paration of the two bones, and fracture too, perhaps of one or both, or of the lower end of the humerus.