573 LITHOTOMY. extent of the wound as far as the membranous portion of the urethra: the left forefinger is placed as above recommended : the point of the knife is represented as being about to be carried onwards, and the dot- ted line on the prostate shows the extent of incision through the left lobe of that organ. It will be observed that a considerable portion of the gland remains uncut, and that the line of incision is nearly parallel with, and a little below the attachment of the pelvic fascia, as referred to at page 506. In all probability the transversus perinei muscle will tear under the finger, as will also such of the fibres of the levator ani, and of Wilson’s, as may he interfered with : if, how- ever, these or any other parts seem to resist the entrance of the finger, the edge of the blade should be turned against them ; but as the amount of resistance cannot be well appreciated until the wound has been made into the bladder, and as it might be both troublesome and dangerous to use a sharp-pointed instrument any longer, a probe- Fuj. 245. pointed bistoury may be selected for the purpose, and one such as this (fig. 245)^ which it will be perceived resembles that laid aside in all respects excepting the point, will be found to answer well. In some instances where the stone is large it may be desirable to make a freer opening in the prostate than the line in the drawing indicates; but as it will be unsafe to use the sharp-pointed bistoury for the purpose, the blade exhibited in the last drawing will answer. It may be used before the stone is grasped by the forceps, or after, as may be thought proper : if before, it may be carried further along the left lobe, or be laid on the right one so as to divide it to a similar extent ; if the stone is between the forceps, the blade may still be put against one or other of these parts of the prostate; but it may now be more difficult to reach the right lobe, and, in so far as I can perceive, there shoidd he no hesitation in cutting any part of the gland which seems to offer great resistance, with the exception perhaps of its under sur- face, where the position of the seminal ducts and other circumstances should deter the surgeon from using a cutting instrument. The blades above recommended may be each set in a stout ebony handle, some- what longer and thicker than that of the scalpel, or they may be in clasp-handles. It is advisable to have the sharp-pointed one in this setting, as the operator can conveniently keep it in his vest-pocket until he is about to use it, and thus there will be no chance of the point being broken by an awkward assistant or an inquisitive looker-on. I believe that in a large majority of cases the opening in the deep part of the perineum and neck of the bladder need not at first be