127 AMPUTATION. is greatly, perhaps entirely, under the control of the surgeon. If lie cuts in parts where the vessels have been long in a state of chronic enlargement, he may he certain that more will require ligatures than under other circumstances; and in such a case, also, if the tourniquet is not used, the loss of blood must of necessity be greater, and this will happen in either mode of operation. It has been as- serted by Sir George Ballingall, and others, that the vessels retract more completely in the circular operation; yet in a valuable essay on the comparative merits of the two modes (with statistical tables strongly advocating the flap, by Dr. Machardy, who witnessed a cir- cular amputation done by myself, it was stated, that the blood drip- ping on the floor seemed like the noise of rain falling on a cupola. In the case alluded to, there certainly was copious hemorrhage and numerous ligatures were required, but in reference to the above state- ment I may here remark, that the only instance (exclusive of cases of gangrene) in which I have seen a single ligature alone required in the thigh, was a circular operation. It must be admitted, how- ever, that if the bleeding is more copious in the flaps, it is easier to get at the deep part of the wound, than in the hollow cone of the circular incision. When “ nine” ligatures have ah'eady been applied to the flaps of a stump, it may be considered a serious matter if “ eleven” more are required ; but I cannot suppose the necessity here (for such a case is referred to by Sir George Ballingall) was occa- sioned by the mode of incision : had a circular wound been made in the same textures, I have no doubt, that the bleeding would also have been troublesome, and even admitting that a few ligatures less might have been required than in the other method, I fancy that the result of the operation would not have been influenced thereby. Two or three ligatures, more or less, can never make any material difference in the results of an amputation. It has been asserted in most controversies on this question, that in the circular operation the skin alone is left to cover the end of the bone, whereas in the flap method there is a cushion of muscular fibres preserved, which afterwards protects that part, and lessens the chance of injury from pressure. The nature of the covering, however, depends greatly on the manner in which the operation is performed. In the circular, if the skin is freely dissected upwards before the other soft parts are divided, the end of the stump can be formed only by this texture; but if the incisions are so managed as to leave a sloping surface from the edge of the divided bone to that of the skin, and if a sufficiency of soft parts be left, the covering of the bone may thus be as thick (as muscular) as by the flap operation. In the leg, one side of the stump, when formed by the circular proceeding, must always be formed of skin only ; but in the thigh, arm, and upper part of the fore-arm it is quite possible to preserve the parts in the manner above referred to. It is worthy of remark, that the muscularity of the calf of the leg has been made an objection to the flap operation in this situation, and that pains have been taken by some of the greatest