THE HEAD AND NECK. 386 be pursued may be difficult to decide, for a feeling must always be uppermost that in opening the abscess the aneurismal sac must be wounded at the same time, and that possibly uncontrollable hemorrhage may ensue,— indeed I have known this happen in popliteal aneu- rism after ligature of the superficial iliac; but in general, if in- flammation, fluctuation, and other symptoms be distinct, there should be no hesitation in making an opening at the prominence formed by the matter. This, however, should not be so very free as if the abscess were one of an ordinary kind, although the after-treatment should in most respects be the same. The cause of inflammation and suppura- tion in these cases has never yet been satisfactorily accounted for. It has been the custom with some to speak of applying a ligature to the artery when it lies between the scaleni muscles, as a distinct operation, and the high authority of Dupuytren has been quoted on the subject. I confess, however, with all due deference to that dis- tinguished name, that I have never been able to look upon it as such. If from the size of an aneurism, or any other reason, the surgeon per- ceived that it would be improper to carry the external end of Ids incision so near to the trapezius as has been above recommended, he would (still supposing he could expose the vessel as it lies on the first rib) keep the external wound somewhat nearer the trachea, and if on get- ting upon the anterior scalenus, or the artery, he found the latter diseased, he should assuredly divide the muscle to ascertain the condi- tion of the vessel behind it, and, in the event of its being healthy, apply a ligature, as he might do at the outer margin of the muscle in any other case. In 1819, Dupuytren operated on the left side, having the intention from the first of dividing this muscle, which he accordingly did, and the proceeding was successful. The case was an axillary aneurism, resulting from a stab. In 1820 Mr. Liston tied the vessel (with success) above the clavicle for a spontaneous aneurism, and in the progress of the operation found it necessary to divide a portion of the outer margin of the muscle. His original object was to secure the vessel after it had passed that point, but finding the tunics diseased, he, without making any alteration in the external wound, proceeded to treat the muscle in the manner alluded to. Should it be deemed necessary to interfere with the scalenus, it must be remembered that the knife comes nearer and nearer to im- portant parts. First, the posterior and supra-scapular arteries lie closer here to each other than further on, then the phrenic nerve may be en- dangered, and even the internal jugular vein. The proceeding should be effected with a probe-pointed bistoury, and, as an additional security, a director should be pushed under the muscle. If any of the ves- sels above named were visible, they should be held aside with hooks, or with a curved spatula, and the movements of the knife should be made with the utmost caution, more especially if it should be found necessary to divide the whole of the muscle, so that the phrenic nerve may not be injured. This nerve generally lies close upon the inner