402 THE HEAD AND NECK. way, so that they may be held aside, when, by keeping in the mesial line, the trachea will be exposed a little below the isthmus of the thy- roid gland. The point of the knife should now be passed into the tube at the lowest part of the exposed portion of the trachea, and car- ried from below upwards to any desired extent. It may happen that these proceedings when required on the bring body will be accomphshed with as little trouble almost as on the dead; but it will often be otherwise; and many circumstances may be con- nected with these operations which will call forth much of the skill and coolness of the operator. Laryngotomy is but rarely performed compared with the operation on the trachea, and the cases are few in number in which the proceed- ing seems to possess any advantage over the latter: indeed, it is scarcely possible to name an instance. The principal necessity for either operation is to allow the patient to breathe more freely, whilst occasionally an opening is required to give egress to a foreign body, which may have accidentally passed into the larynx, trachea, or one or other of the bronchi. Such a body may be the cause of the diffi- culty in respiration, or this condition may be the result of inflammation of the mucous membrane; but unless there is a special reason for divid- ing the crico-thyroid membrane (such as the ascertained lodgment of a foreign substance in the larynx, or the shortness of the neck, as in an infant), the operation of opening the trachea is most generally preferred. In Laryngotomy, the only casualty which is at all probable, is the division of a branch of the superior thyroid artery (crico-thyroid), which runs across the membrane, and is occasionally of such a size as might cause trouble when cut. The late Professor Turner, of Edinburgh, used, in his lectures, to relate an instance where, in such an operation, a child bled to death from a wound of this vessel. Possibly the divi- sion of the membrane between the cricoid and thyroid cartilages may not leave an opening sufficiently large, and it will, therefore, be requisite to carry the knife upwards or downwards. If the thyroid cartilage be cut, there is a probability of one or other of the vocal cords being divided, unless the incision is exactly in the mesial line : if the wound is extended downwards no serious harm can result; but it should be remembered that the aperture in the cricoid cartilage will not gape like that in other parts, for the elasticity of the ring is such that the cut surfaces will continue in contact unless they are held asunder. In a young subject, the chief difficulty in the operation seems to be in the recognition of the parts, from the smallness in their size, after the wound on the surface has been effected, and this difficulty may be greatly increased if the skin and cellular tissue be inflamed and infiltrated with serum, in consequence of the previous application of leeches, sinapisms, and blisters. In Tracheotomy the casualties and difficulties may be more numerous and greater. It may be the case that the parts over the trachea are much swollen, from the circumstances alluded to above; but besides this, the tube is always much deeper in the neck than the larynx, and