THE INFERIOR EXTREMITY. 328 and the whole foot thrown into that position characterised in the rare condition termed Talipes Calcaneus by Dr. Little, in which the foot rests upon the back part of the heel. I have known the tendo A chillis accidentally divided with a cutting instrument; but such an injury is rare compared with the frequent rupture of the part, occasioned doubtless by violent action or resistance of the muscles to which it belongs, as in dancing, leaping, moving up a stair, or such like circum- stances. When the tendon is divided on the living body for club- foot, the sudden separation is occasionally attended with a slight noise, and when division is the result of rupture from violent action in the calf of the leg, the accident is accompanied with a loud snap. The treatment of this injury consists in keeping the ends of the tendon in contact, which can be done only whilst the foot is held in a state of extension. In order to relax the muscles of the calf as much as possible, the knee should be bent, and by means of bandages, straps, or even a splint, if such should be deemed advisable, the limb should be fixed in this favourable position for about three weeks, when the union will be sufficiently strong to permit of some liberty of movement: it will, however, be many weeks before the patient can use much freedom in walking without the support of a crutch or stick; but ultimately, as I have seen even in very heavy individuals, the united part becomes as strong as any other portion of the tendon. Sometimes a few of the fibres of the gastrocnemius give way, under circumstances similar to those which cause rupture of the tendo Achillis : I have known several examples of the kind in persons of a heavy and muscular frame. The lesion is attended with considerable pain, occasionally with swelling from effused blood, and prevents free use of the calf for some weeks after. Rest, with the limb in a bent position, will form the chief feature in the treatment, but possibly leeches, fomentations, and, latterly, stimulating frictions, may be de- sirable. Division of the hamstrings for a flexed knee is of more recent date than the proceedings above referred to. In white-swelling of the joint it almost invariably happens that the part is more or less bent, and in the event of the disease being cured with the limb in this position, very considerable deformity and loss of power are the result. The practice of gradually extending the leg has often been resorted to in these cases, and occasionally with the most happy results: the pro- ceedings being attended with benefit where there was merely stif- ening and alteration in the shape of the joint, but not when bony anchylosis had occurred. I am satisfied from the result of my own practice in such cases, that much benefit may be derived from the preliminary division of one or both hamstrings. The limb being conveniently placed, with the patient on his side or face, the sec- tion of the textures may be accomplished with great facility with the knife referred to at p. 324 : often, in, commencing the operation, the tendon of the semi-tendinosus seems the only part requiring divi- sion ; as soon, however, as it has been cut, the leg straightens a little,