DISLOCATIONS OP THE HIP-JOINT. 275 will speedily be adjusted ; far less energy being seemingly required in this case than in any of the others. If the head of the bone cannot be raised by the single efforts of the surgeon, he may either employ additional hands, or, what will be better, apply the pulleys, in the manner represented in figure 150. The strap on one side serves to fix the pelvis, whilst that on the other, when the pulleys are in action, answers the double purpose of raising the head of the bone and of a fulcrum, on which, by carrying the limb towards its fellow, the femur is moved as a lever, whereby the desired object is facilitated. Occa- sionally, instead of keeping the patient’s limb in an extended posture, it may be advisable to bend the thigh upon the trunk, or to make him sit upright, as used to be done by Kirkland and Hey, with the body so placed against a bed-post or upright pillar, as to constitute a fixed point or fulcrum in the perineum, around which the displaced bone may be so twisted as to cause its head to slip backwards into its natural position. I have seen an upright pin, like the remora of Hil- danus, or the scalmus on the scamnum of Hippocrates, nine inches long, placed in a stout table intended to be used for such purposes, and 1 find that, at the London Hospital, where these injuries occur more frequently than at most other similar establishments in the metropolis, it is customary to fix a pillar of wood into the floor, (a hole being pro- vided for its reception,) which is used in the manner above re- ferred to. These observations are intended to convey an outline only of dis- locations of the hip, and the methods of reduction ; but as the nature of this work will not permit me to dwell at greater length on the subject, it is to be hoped that, combined with -a knowledge of ana- tomy, which will point out the kind of resistance to be overcome, and a moderate share of mechanical knowledge, which will indicate the natural direction of the force required to cause the head of the femur to retrace its course, little difficulty will be experienced in making up such deficiencies as must be the necessary result of these brief de- scriptions. For the hip there have been fewer different methods described than for the shoulder ; and this may, probably, be accounted for by the fact, that until towards the end of last century, little accurate know- ledge obtained of such cases; Wiseman wholly denied and disbelieved in such luxations ; and although Heister quotes Hippocrates and Zwinger on the subject, and describes the method of reducing the different kinds—“ upward, downward, backward, and forward,” he evidently had no clear ideas between the displacement in hip disease, and that resulting from violence. I cannot quit this subject, how- ever, without calling attention to my remarks on the various means of reducing luxations of the head of the humerus. I would not have the surgeon invariably to persist in one mode for each kind of displacement ; he ought here also to be guided by that common- sense, which is so essential a feature in the practice of good sur- gery.