2 M OPERATIONS FOR HEMORRHOIDS. 5-29 allude principally to that relaxed and vascular condition of the mucous membrane of the gut which is far from being unusual in the adult, and which is the cause of so much distress whilst at stool, both from the copious discharges of blood and matter, as also from the eversion or prolapsus which occurs at the time. I may also include those examples where one or more hard tumours are connected with the inner part of the verge of the anus, which protrude on these occasions, or sometimes escape through the sphincter whilst the person walks, and for a time become, in a manner, strangulated. In either of these instances, supposing that the ordinary treatment by means of astringent lotions and applications in the form of decoc- tions and ointments, and a due regard to the state of the bowels, exercise, and so forth, produces no benefit, I should strongly advise the removal of the offending parts by means of ligatures, as being prefer- able to the knife or scissors. Such a proceeding as the following may be resorted to : The patient having had the gut cleared by an enema of warm water, should be desired to lean upon a bed, present his breech to the surgeon, and strain so as to cause the lower part of the mucous lining to protrude : then the surgeon should, with a curved needle in a handle, (p. 30,) introduce a very stout thread or thin whipcord through the base of the part intended to be removed; next the instrument should be thrust across at right angles to the course which it first took, and another ligature being thus inserted, each should be divided into two, and by drawing a firm noose on all four, the part will be completely strangled ; and, provided the threads have been drawn sufficiently tight, will drop off in the course of five or six days ; after which the sores will speedily heal, and the annoying state of the rectum will be permanently cured. If the relaxed and vascular mucous membrane, or the tumour, be removed with cutting instruments, the hemorrhage may be very trou- blesome ; and, besides, larger open wounds will be left, which will heal slowly, and possibly the interior of the gut may after all remain of a more capacious size than may be desirable. By the proceeding above recommended it will be observed that, besides avoiding all bleeding,— not more than a few drops of blood will be lost,—the interior is con- tracted in diameter at once ; for, supposing the punctures to be about an inch separate, when the threads are drawn tight the part included in the different loops will be compressed into a size so small, that when the slough separates the open sore will not be larger than may be covered with the tip of a finger. Judging from my own experience of this practice, I have no hesitation in stating, that it seems to me so superior to the other modes alluded to, that it should always be pre- ferred. In such a proceeding, as in many other operations in this region, the patient may for several days after have difficulty in voiding urine ; indeed there may be complete retention. The catheter, how- ever, will seldom be required, as a little camphor and hyoscyamus, or such like remedies, with the hip-bath, will seldom fail to put all to rights.