THE INFERIOR EXTREMITY. 3.54 remove it with the saw or forceps. I have seen it sometimes cause an ulcer in the skin, and exfoliate through the opening. The limb should always be held nearly in a straight position, and I am partial to the same attitude in the after treatment. If the pos- terior flap be somewhat deficient in length, the surfaces can be most readily approximated when the knee is bent, but the skin in front, being thus put on the stretch, is more apt to be injured by the spine of the tibia. Much has been said about the necessity of the surgeon’s standing on a certain side of the limb in these operations. Some of the highest authorities have contended for the one side, others, equally good, have asserted that the opposite is better. It has been said, that as the fibula, in some part'of its course, is a little behind the line of the tibia, there is danger of the point of the knife passing between the bones, if the instrument is thrust from the inner side; but it seems to me that, if the operator is not on his guard, it may happen when passed from either side. I have seen the occurrence twice on the living subject, and recommend, that, on whichever side the surgeon places himself, he should always keep in view the possibility of such a piece of awkwardness happening, and by a very moderate share of attention there will be no danger of committing such an error. I find one author, who insists on the advantages of invariably passing the knife from the outer side, equally strenuous in advising the sur- geon to stand on the inside when he applies the saw, so that the fibula may be divided first; and to follow up these directions it must of course be necessary to change sides between the use of the knife and the saw ! another, who recommends transfixion from the outer side, also advises that the fibula should be first cut; but he says nothing about the change of position, and it will be found exceedingly awkward to accomplish the section in this way ; indeed he must stoop, or perhaps get upon his knee, in order to bring the handle of the saw below the bone. Some have advised that the operator should always stand on the patient’s left side, so that, with his own left hand, he may keep the part about to be removed in a proper position for the appli- cation of the saw; for it may happen that the assistant who has charge of the lower part of the limb, will keep it so high as to cause the instrument to become locked in the groove, or else may depress it so much as to snap and splinter the bone. Ilut it is erroneous to suppose, that in either of these events the fault always lies with the youth who holds the condemned part, for the same things happen if the limb above is not properly held, and as it also may be depressed or elevated, it follows that the surgeon’s left hand must be equally useful above the wound as below it, and consequently that if he is to trust to himself to steady the parts properly, he may just as well have his left hand above as below, and therefore be either on the patient’s right side or on his left, as may otherwise be most convenient. For my own part, I think it a matter of indifference on which side the surgeon stands: the knife may be pushed between the bones from