CAUSTICS. CAUTERIES. 43 course of an hour or two should be succeeded by a poultice. Instead of applying heat in this way, some prefer to cauterize with the heated iron, thus producing death of the part touched with the metal, in a more rapid manner than with the moxa. Of these three modes of counter-irritation, I give a decided prefer- ence to the last. The caustic potash (the potential cautery, as it is usually termed) produces its effects far more slowly, and with less certainty, than either of the other two, being in some instances apt to go deeper than might be wished, or to spread too extensively over the surface; and it is chiefly on the latter account that the plaster with the hole in it is recommended, as a preventive. The moxa is trouble- some to apply effectively; and often, after the patient has been put to a deal of pain, its results on the surface are so limited that the coun- ter-irritation is slight indeed. My old colleague, Mr. Lizars, used the potash most extensively, and the groans and stifled screams of agony heard in his wards a few hours after his visit, bore ample testimony to the pain which it produced : I have myself used it frequently, and, of course, must plead guilty of the same kind of cruelty. The moxa, I believe, produces much more acute pain than the caustic, and possesses no advantage over it that I am aware of. At one time I used this remedy pretty often, but for the reasons above stated I have latterly almost entirely given it up; and now, when I have the power of selection, I almost invariably resort to the heated iron,—the actual cautery, as it is usually termed, in contra-distinction to the potential, the same term being commonly given to the moxa also. The horrors and cruelties attending the use of the heated iron in former times, afforded too good reason for the neglect with which it was subsequently treated; and it cannot be thought wonderful that, when men high in the profession, disputed about the superiority of gold or iron as a cautery, about the shape and size of the instruments, and also the smallest number with which it was possible to practise surgery, and when, moreover, it was the custom to apply it in every disease to which the human frame is liable, the character of the pro- fession suffered, and as it suffered in public estimation, so did that of the once “ powerful sceptre,”—the actual cautery. Though there are still many prejudices against it, and certainly many just objections to its indiscriminate use, it seems to be more in vogue among modern surgeons than it once was; and, under judicious guidance, it appears to me a more manageable, equally efficient, and less painful counter-irri- tant than either of those last mentioned. It is, besides, highly ser- viceable in arresting hemorrhage, when no other means will answer, and is altogether of much use in surgery, as will be explained more particularly afterwards. It must be confessed, however, that there is an appearance of rudeness and cruelty in its application, which must always render its frequent use objectionable in modern practice. In continental hospitals surgeons often take greater liberties with their patients than is the custom in this country, and the cautery seems in more general use with them than with us. Many persons