LIGATURE OF ARTERIES. 193 the orifice in the vessel will not be difficult to detect, more particularly if the pressure on the aim above be taken off for an instant: the artery should next be carefully insulated a little above and below the wound, and the ligatures applied as directed. A probe may be passed with advantage into the orifice, to serve as a kind of guide whilst dissecting the vessel from its connexions. Wounds in the axilla occasionally open the main artery or one of the principal branches, and the surgeon may perhaps have an oppor- tunity of securing the vessel immediately above and below the orifice, either through the wound in the skin already made, as was done by Hall, by extending it as I have known done on one occasion, or by making a free division of the integuments and pectoral muscle as was practised by Desault, in an example of extravasation following a sword-wound in the armpit. The axillary artery is sometimes the seat of aneurism also, in which case it may be requisite that a ligature should be applied nearer the heart. If the tumour is low down, there may be sufficient room to ope- rate below the clavicle; if it be high up, or of considerable magnitude, as is not unfrequently the case, the subclavian artery should be secured at the root of the neck, as afterwards described in the section on that part of the body; indeed, in all instances of axillary aneurism I should prefer the latter operation, as, in addition to its efficacy being equal to that of the other, I consider it less troublesome and dangerous in its performance. Some surgeons have preferred that below the cla- vicle, however, and it may be done in the following way: —The patient being laid on his back on a convenient table, with the shoulders and head slightly raised, and the elbow separated a little from the side, instead of cutting the skin, so as to get between the two portions of the pectoral muscle, or between it and the deltoid, I recommend that a lunated incision, (such as may be seen marked (a) in a drawing in the after-part of the volume exhibiting the incisions for operations on the large arteries of the neck,) should be made from within an inch of the sternal extremity of the clavicle to the point of the acromion process, and that the clavicular portion of the pectoral muscle should be cut .across in the same direction. On the dead body it is not difficult to expose the artery in either of the spaces aboved named, particularly between the pectoral and deltoid muscles. On the living, however, I should deem it much more troublesome. The circumstance of saving a small portion of the pectoral muscle I consider of very trifling import- ance compared with the advantages to be obtained by dividing it, and therefore I should not hesitate about selecting the operation now described. '1 he space between the two portions of the pectoral is so small, that it is far from desirable to attempt the operation there, and the risk of wounding the cephalic vein and branches of the thora- cica-acromialis artery is considerable, if the space between the pectoral and deltoid is selected. These vessels are in danger at the outer ex- tremity of the incisions I have recommended; the vein, however, may be held aside, should it be found troublesome, and from the size of the o