AMPUTATIONS OF TOES. 343 The great toe may be removed in the manner above described ; that is, by lateral flaps. If the distal end of the metatarsal bone can possibly be preserved, the foot will doubtless be much stronger after- wards than if it were removed, but it will often happen that the necessity for an operation depends on disease of the joint involving the end of this bone, and its amputation is therefore absolutely necessary. I have already stated, at p. 333, that excision of the metatarsal bone ,is not to be thought of here, (nor, indeed, should it be in any of these bones,) and in the event of amputation being required, as in an instance similar to the drawing at the page referred to, or the figure immediately below, the operation may be performed thus:—An in- cision should be made along the upper and inner side of the meta- tarsal bone, beginning a little behind the supposed seat of disease, therefore, in some instances, over the internal cuneiform bone, and Fig. 179. running round the joint as here re- presented (fig. 179): the skin and soft parts should next be dissected off, so as to insulate the end of the metatarsal bone, when the for- ceps can be applied behind the disease ; or, if the whole bone must • be removed, the distal extremity can be held in the left hand, so as to convert the bone into a lever, as by such a manoeuvre its disarticu- lation from the cuneiform bone can be more readily effected. In the adult I have sometimes seen the bone so hard that it was requisite to use the saw, but in general the forceps will suffice, and I recom- mend that they should be placed obliquely upon the bone, so as not to leave a sharp point on the inner margin of the foot, as there would be if thus applied at right angles. This latter direction may appear of no great moment, indeed, I do not consider it is so, yet if attended to, the operation will appear much more perfect. In disarticulating, unless the knife is used very cautiously, there is every chance of wounding the anterior tibial artery, as it dips between the metatarsal bones ; but in such an event the vessel can be readily secured after the separation ; and, under any circum- stances, it rarely happens that more than one, two, or three ligatures are required. In some instances, indeed I may say in many, oc- curring both in my own practice and that of others, I have seen much annoyance from continued bleeding in the deepest part of the wound, between the internal cuneiform and second metatarsal bones,