THE HEAD AND NECK. 39G for deUgation of the innoniinata ; and if the operation were re- quired on the left carotid, I should make a similar wound, parallel, however, with the sterno-mastoid of the corresponding side. Towards the root of the neck the jugular vein and the par vagum are but slightly attached to the artery, but the surgeon will do well to re- member that'both are close at hand. Here, as in the other operations above described, some minor veins may be troublesome ; indeed, in all incisions at the root of the neck such as those under consideration, as well as for other purposes, veins, which from their magnitude would give no trouble in other regions, may give great annoyance here, in consequence of the distended condition into which they may be thrown during the irregularity of breathing and straining incidental to such proceedings. In an instance where an aneurismal tumour is low down in the neck, it will be perceived that such an operation will be exceedingly difficult, as the deep incisions must necessarily be limited between the tumour and the upper margin of the sternum. By great care, how- ever, the vessel may be reached without serious injury to the neigh- bouring parts. Mr. Porter has successfully tied the carotid within the eighth part of an inch of the innoniinata, and Dr. Robertson, of Edinburgh, has, with equal success, cured a large aneurism, occupying nearly the entire side of the neck, when it was with the utmost dif- ficulty that he could find space between the disease and the sternum to expose the root of the carotid. It has often appeared to me an exceedingly singular circumstance how it happens so frequently, that ligature at the root of the carotid should be, upon the whole, so successful, while deligation of the origin of the subclavian has been so unfortunate. Until within a very recent date it has usually been considered that secondary hemorrhage (which is so fruitful a cause of death after these operations on the great arteries) has always occurred from the proximal end of the vessels ; but the idea is now gaining ground that this occurrence happens as frequently, if not more so, from the distal side of the seat of ligature; and certainly the post mortem examinations of some of these operations on the large arteries at the root of the neck go to favour this view. Cases in the practice of Mr. Lizars, Mr. Liston, and others, might be brought forward in support of this doctrine, and the circumstance has been very pointedly alluded to by Mr. Porter, in his published lectures on aneurism. The greater facility for retrograde circulation in the subclavian than in the carotid, will not, however, account for the unsuccessful issue of all the cases in which the former vessel has been tied on the inner side of the scaleni muscles, as death has usually occurred before the period at which secondary bleeding may be expected. Professor Miller, of Edinburgh, has, in a most able paper in the January number (1842) of the London and Edinburgh Monthly Journal of Medical Science, endeavoured to prove that death has re- sulted, in most of these operations on the great arteries of the neck, from inflammation of the lungs, and it cannot be doubted that such a