TUMOURS. 121 added to these, the whole or a great part of the thickness of a limb, or wherever the disease may be, seems to be more or less involved, there need be little doubt that the disease is malignant. Some objections to these general characters will at once be perceived, —as, for example, a tumour of bone cannot be moved like one of the soft parts; and, in certain instances, there are additional characters which indicate peculiar diseases, as the ulceration, in the latter stages of scirrhus, or the bleeding growth in fungus hmmatodes. My own experience coincides entirely with that of every unpreju- diced observer, that when malignant growths are removed with the knife their return is but too likely ; nevertheless, as excision gives the only chance of security—a point on which most parties seem to agree— an operation should always be resorted to, provided the knife can be carried beyond the supposed limits of the disease; and, moreover, I deem it one of the duties of the practitioner, to urge the patient to submit to such a proceeding. Many imagine that one time will be as good as another for such a purpose, and most will be pleased to put oif the evil day; but if our professional education does not tell us how to cure such diseases by less harsh measures, it enables us, at all events, to foresee the threatened danger, and to warn the patient of it at an early period. When the growth is supposed to be non-malignant, there is less imperative necessity for interference. Thus in a fatty tumour, or one of an encysted character, the decision may be almost allowed to rest with the patient. The latter form is frequently met with on the scalp, and the fatty often acquires an immense size, so as to produce marked disfiguration, and perhaps inconvenience, both from its bulk and weight. If, however, the patient is willing to put up with such conditions, it is not incumbent on the surgeon to press an operation, as he would in an instance of malignant affection. In all instances of a doubtful nature, if the circumstances are other- wise favourable, I believe that the surgeon best does his duty who recommends an operation. In inculcating this practice, I by no means wish it understood, that the knife is to be the immediate expedient; on the contrary, in the early stages of tumours, when- ever such measures can be resorted to as may be supposed to cause absorption, they should have a fair trial ; but when such plans fail, as they will almost invariably do, and if there is reason to sup- pose that the further continuance of the disease will be detrimental to health, I deem the practitioner highly culpable who still tampers with it, and persists in placing faith in either local applications or constitu- tional remedies. Under the supposition that the vessels in a part where tumour first begins are preternaturally excited, it is customary to apply leeches in the neighbourhood ; counter-irritation is afterwards resorted to, on similar views to those which lead to the employment of such a remedy in deep-seated inflammation. The plan of tying one or more of the enlarged arteries leading to the disease, as in the case of bronchocele,