THE SUPERIOR EXTREMITY. 100 apparatus. A bandage passed round the wrist and neck, as exhibited in figure 9(1, may be used on such occasions, or a leather case, with suitable straps (as may be had in the shops) may be preferred ; but in general a hand- kerchief-sling answers admirably ; and as such an apparatus is familiar to all, I need say no more about it. Fracture of the lower part of the hume- rus is of more frequent occurrence than that of the upper portion of the fore-arm. The bone may be broken in its shaft, as exhibited in this cut (fig. 87), the articular surfaces may be separated, or a condyle may be broken off. One of these injuries may happen by itself, or all may be com- bined, as was the case in the example from which this sketch was taken. In the shaft there will be no difficulty in de- tecting the nature of the injury, and very little extending force will be sufficient to replace the fragments ; in the condyles the swelling will often cause difficulty in the diagnosis, but a slight pressure with a bandage serves to keep the fragments in apposition ; and in both instances an appa- ratus, similar to that represented in figure 88, will be requisite. A piece of paste- board, of the shape similar to that here shadowed out, should be applied on one surface of the elbow, and another of a like kind on the opposite, and both should be retained with a bandage, which should ex- tend, as here exhibited, from the hand to the middle of the arm. Sometimes it will be found that the fingers become oedcmatous, when they also must be enveloped in narrow rollers. In many instances the swelling around the elbow will be so great, that it will be impos- sible at first to draw the bandage as tight as it is represented in the sketch ; indeed, in many of these cases a good deal must be left to the discretion of the practitioner:—often it will be necessary to temporize until inflammation has subsided ; and although I have mentioned pasteboard splints, these will sometimes be found not sufficiently strong, and wooden ones, or those of iron, tinned or japanned, will ' sometimes be preferable. Occasionally, when the condyles only are implicated, a bandage alone will keep the fragments in apposition. In a case which I saw lately, where I supposed there was fracture of the external condyle, and where, although the part was quite mova- ble, no apparatus was applied, from the supposition that the patient could not survive the other injuries lie had sustained (which he,