41 CHAPTER VII. COUNTER-IRRITANTS. CAUSTICS. CAUTERIES. ISSUES. SETONS. The various means of counter-irritation are not unworthy of notice here. Perhaps the simplest of all such means is that of hand-rubbing, with the bare palm, or with a little olive oil, or more stimulating fluid in the shape of a liniment or soft ointment, or perhaps with the dry towel or flesh-brush; but all of these are in such common use among the non-initiated, that I need not do more than allude to them here, although I am inclined to think, that frictions and manipulations are less resorted to in the practice of surgery than they really de- serve. Perhaps these means may scarcely be deemed worthy of being held as counter-irritants ; yet, in some instances, I believe they are so, whilst in others they seem to be direct stimulants, either by induc- ing nervous or muscular action, or an increase in vascular excite- ment, whether arterial or absorbent. I conceive dry cupping to be a source of considerable counter-irrita- tion, and feel assured that the practice is far less resorted to, among modern surgeons, than it deserves to be. The method of dry cupping consists in using the receivers, or glasses, and exhausting the air from them before or after they are placed over any particular part. The increase of blood in the part within the vacuum seems, in some instances, to produce as good an effect as a blister, or even a more severe form of counter-irritant, such as the caustic or cautery ; indeed, I have in some instances perceived more benefit from the dry cupping than from any such severe measures. In certain cases of deep-seated pain in the spine, in the hip, or in the knee, I have known the practice to be attended with vast benefit; and, although I am far from considering it as an infallible remedy, I do not hesitate to speak highly in its favour. Amongst the various ointments which have been used as counter- irritants, I know of none which has been so much used, or which possesses such powerful influence on the skin, as that formed by the combination of a drachm of tartar emetic with an ounce of spermaceti ointment. Sometimes it is used with a smaller proportion of the salt, and it seldom fails, when rubbed in small quantities on the skin night and morning, of producing a crop of pustules, which cannot but be of service, if counter-irritation is likely to be of any avail at all. Sina- pisms and blisters need no particular comments here: the former I believe to be, if properly made and applied, nearly as powerful as the latter, and the modern preparations of cantharides, in the shape of blis- tering fluids and papers, I look upon as great improvements on the older ointments and plasters. In warm climates, and in all diseases,