305 LIGATURE OF ARTERIES. near the handle being for the purpose of allowing the instrument to revolve, in a manner, over the clavicle. In that instance, however, I believe that a needle of the ordinary shape would have answered equally well. The case was published in the 109th number of “ The Edin- burgh Medical and Surgical Journal,” and some further particulars were given in the September number (1841) of “The London and Edinburgh Monthly Journal of Med. Science,” including an account of the post mortem appearances about four years after the operation. In a deep wound there may be difficulty in drawing the noose and knot sufficiently tight with the fingers alone; for here, as in other parts, their points should, if possible, be kept close to the artery, so as not to raise it from its natural position, as would happen if this manoeuvre were not attended to. In deep and narrow wounds, then, some substitute for the fingers may perhaps he of service :—such as an instrument somewhat similar to the polypus forceps, afterwards repre- sented, having a small eye at the point of each blade, through which the ends of the ligature can be passed after the first noose has been cast. If these be closed, slid on the thread down to the artery, and then opened, whilst each end of the ligature is held firmly, the noose can thus be tightened, and then the second may be drawn in a similar manner. Two rods of iron, about the diameter of a quill, each having a small aperture at one end, have been used in a like manner,—theyiare long, narrow substitutes, as it were, for the fingers; but the latter should always be preferred, where they can be applied, and I believe that, if dexterously used, they will seldom be found incapable of ful- filling the wishes of the surgeon. In whatever way the knot is drawn tight, it is advisable after the first twist is effected, to apply a little pressure with the point of the finger until the second is completed. An assistant generally does this ; and when the finger cannot be con- veniently used, the common forceps (p. 7) may be applied with advantage. An additional turn of the thread is a wise precaution, as it is just possible that those already made may actually become loose, and in this situation I prefer allowing both ends of the ligature to hang from tlie wound ;—but on this subject I must refer to the third chapter of the introduction to this work. In looking over the history of axillary aneurisms, for which ligature of the subclavian has been performed, one cannot but be struck with the frequency of suppuration occurring in the tumour afterwards. My attention was first directed to the circumstance by a case under my own care, when I perceived that it had happened in Mr. Bullen’s practice, and also with many others. Although this process appears to have been more frequent in this situation than in similar diseases else- where, it does not in general seem to have been attended with ulti- mately bad results. In Mr. Bullen’s case the abscess burst into the bronchial tubes, and also opened externally, (air passing freely be- tween the two,) yet the patient did well. The course of practice to •2 c