446 THE HEAD AND NECK. being laid on his back, and the head, eyelids, and eyeball fixed in the manner already described, the surgeon, with his right or left hand as he may choose, passes a Beer’s knife across the anterior chamber from one side of the cornea to the other, and by carrying the blade onwards, its back being about midway between the upper and under edge of that part, he divides one half of the circumference of the tunic, and thus makes an opening sufficiently large to permit the escape of the lens. To facilitate the latter object it is generally requisite to intro- duce a couching needle, or other such slender instrument, through this wound, and to touch the capsule of the lens in such a manner as to make an opening sufficiently large to allow the cataract to be forced through with a slight pressure on the globe; when this is done the pressure may be still further continued, until the opaque substance passes through the external incision. Possibly it may appear advan- tageous to pass a little scoop, or curette as it is called, behind the lens to expedite its escape. When this has been accomplished, and it is seen that the iris has not slipped through the wound in the cornea, the edges of the latter should be carefully placed in apposition, the eyelids closed, and the treatment afterwards conducted as in the instance of couching, being modified of course by circumstances. It is evident that the knife in an operation of this kind can only be passed from the temporal margin of the cornea. It has been proposed to touch the front of the capsule with the point of the blade as it is being carried across, but there is a risk in so doing of the aqueous humour escaping, and as it does so, of carrying the iris against the sharp edge of the knife: it is therefore, perhaps, better not to attempt this, for in all cases, even when this is not done, the difficulty will be great enough to avoid this part. To lessen the danger it is necessary before operating to see that the iris has been opened to its fullest extent by the influence of belladonna. The section of the cornea may be made either on the upper or lower margin, some having preferred the latter as being most convenient, others the former, as the aqueous humour does not escape so readily, either at the time of the operation or after- wards. I need scarcely say that all the aqueous humour escapes with the lens, or probably before it is started from the capsule, and more- over, that if the pressure be not cautiously applied, part of the vitre- ous humour also may be squeezed out, possibly even the whole of it, as has happened,—when of course the organ is completely destroyed. Some (Mr. Guthrie for example) seem to put little importance on the escape of part of the vitreous humour,— indeed the gentleman whose name I have mentioned seems even to fancy that the loss of a portion of it is rather an advantage. Most authorities, however, appear anxi- ous to inflict as little injury on the organ as the necessity demands. Immediately after the operation the cornea appears somewhat wrinkled and of a milky colour, but if all goes on favourably a full amount of aqueous humour is soon secreted again, and the cornea resumes its tenseness and transparency. There are various other operations connected with the eyeball which