492 THE CHEST, ABDOMEN, AND PELVIS. ceiving the fissure, though there may possibly be but slight separation, and very little mobility. Sometimes the outer table of this bone is driven into the cancellated structure without fissure occurring; but, unless complicated with other injury, such an instance, supposing it to be detected, would not differ in any material respect (so far as regards the treatment) from a severe contusion. In dislocations of the ribs, as above referred to, and in fractures, whether of these bones or of the sternum, the surgeon lias little else to do than to encircle the chest with a broad flannel roller, so as to keep the fragments steady during respiration, which process will then be car- ried on almost entirely by the movements of the diaphragm and other abdominal muscles. In the course of ten or fifteen days the bandage may possibly be dispensed with, although it will often be required much longer. The necessity for watching the state of the pulse and other precursory symptoms of inflammation should not be overlooked on such occasions, as the excited action in and around the seat of in- jury may possibly extend to the pleura. Leeches to the part, cup- ping, or even general blood-letting, may possibly be requisite. It cannot be doubted that in many of these injuries the pleura must be lacerated, and in such cases the probability of bad results should al- ways keep the practitioner on his guard. Besides injury of the pleura costalis, it not unfrequently happens that the pleura pulmonalis, with a portion of the lung itself is injured, in instances of fracture. Here the circumstance is generally made manifest by the escape of air from the lung, and perhaps, too, by the appearance of blood through the aerial passages. The latter circum- stance is not always to be depended upon as indicative of the lung having been torn by a spicula of bone; but when there is a fracture without any object having penetrated the chest from the surface, accompanied by the escape of air, there can scarcely be a doubt about the mode in which the lung has been torn. The air at first escapes into the cavity of the chest, in all probability, during expiration; then, as it accumulates, gets through the fissures in the pleura costalis, and makes its way between the fragments into the cellular texture around, from whence it spreads in all directions under the skin so long as it continues to escape from the lung. This condition, which is technically called emphysema, more frequently follows penetrating wounds involving the lungs ; but when it presents in fracture it calls for additional vigilance on the part of the surgeon. Its presence in the subcutaneous cellular tissue is readily detected by the fin- gers ; the feeling of crepitation, such as when air forms during putre- faction in the dead body, can never be mistaken. Sometimes even swelling is conspicuous, more especially if there be extensive effusion. In some instances of severe fractures of the ribs, when the chest has been much crushed, I have known the air extend as low as the wrists and ankles, and up the neck to the face and margin of the scalp, caus- ing enormous swelling. Usually, however, in ordinary fracture, if there is emphysema, it is to a trifling extent. Perhaps the best treatment