THE SUPERIOR EXTREMITY. 166 apparatus, with pulleys and screws, may he had of Mr. Weiss or any other instrument-maker. The belt I deem greatly preferable to a sheet, which, unless a hole be cut in its centre, only offers its resist- ance below the axilla, whilst the former fixes the scapula in a much more efficient manner ; and it is of the utmost consequence that this bone should not be acted on by the extending force. The clasp is very apt to slip from the lower part of the arm, and I am inclined to use in its stead a jack-towel, fastened to the aim by the clove-hitch (p. 153), or a thick and sufficiently long and stout skein of coarse worsted thread, which, from its softness and elasticity, is less likely than the towel to injure the skin. Such methods and apparatus as those above described, modified and applied according to circumstances, I have seen almost invariably resorted to during the fourteen years in which I was connected, as pupil and surgeon, with the Royal Infir- mary of Edinburgh, and they seldom failed to answer the objects for which they were used. The foregoing sketch (fig. 75) will make my description more intelligible. The patient is represented as seated on a couch or chair, with the surgeon in the Fig. 76. position above described. The body-belt may be supposed to be fixed above the level of the injured shoulder, whilst the pulleys are below; in some instances the latter may be placed highest, and in all it is evident that when the extending force is being applied there must be a straight line betwixt the extreme points. In addition to the apparatus above referred to, I advise that a couple of common iron staples should be kept at hand, as they will be con- venient to drive into the floor or wall for fix- ing the body-belt or pulleys,—for the handle of a door, a bed-post, or bar of a grate, will not offer sufficient resistance in such cases, as I have experienced. Such a screw as that here represented (fig. 76) may be had in the iron- monger’s shop, and two, somewhat larger than that in the figure, will answer as well as the staples. Another plan, whicli is attended with less trouble than those above described, and also obviates the necessity for pulleys, consists in pla- cing the patient on a couch or mattress upon his back, when the sur- geon seats himself alongside, and places his foot, the boot or shoe being removed, in the patient’s axilla : he then lays hold of the wrist with both hands, or a bandage, which he may have previously fastened round the arm above the elbow, and by throwing his body backwards and pushing his heel upwards, the head of the bone will be made to glide into its proper place. I have known this plan succeed when others had failed, even though aided by the pulleys; and I believe, that, if judiciously and energetically applied, few examples will be met