411 BRONCIIOCELE. directions go : perhaps the whole wound may unite by the first inten- tion, or possibly air may escape through part of it, or fluids taken by the mouth may escape: in neither of these events can complete union occur at once; but in both cases the open points may heal by granu- lation. In the air passages it will be the duty of the practitioner to watch that inflammation, or that matters from the pharynx or gul- let, do not interfere with respiration; in those leading to the stomach it will be necessary to see that sufficient nourishment is allowed to pass downwards, and possibly a small tube, leading from the mouth or from the wound to that part of the gullet below the injury, may be required for a time. Tumours in the neck are of frequent occurrence, and operations for their removal usually require more caution and surgical skill than similar proceedings in other parts of the body. The most common of all swellings in this situation is that connected with the thyroid gland so well known under the term of Bronchocele, Goitre, (fig. 198), Derbyshire Neck, &c. &c.; but such an affection is seldom, among sur- geons of the present day, considered a fit case for interference with the knife. Although Gooch, Desault, Hedenus, and others, dissected out such tumours, and Klein of Stutt- gard wrote so familiarly (flippant- ly I should say) about such oper- ations, few leading surgeons now- a-days countenance such proceed- ings ; nor, indeed, excepting in cases where the tumour attains a large size, does it appear to give any inconvenience saving that aris- ing from its unseemly appear- ance. Anatomical examinations of such enlargements display the thy- roid arteries, one, two, three, or all of them prodigiously increased in size, the carotids in close contact with the mass, which itself is so in- timately connected with the root of the neck, trachea, and oesophagus, as to forbid any attempt upon the entire growth by means of inci- sions. On one occasion, in a case where the affection produced more than usual annoyance, I witnessed an attempt to remove a portion of this gland, but the operator was speedily obliged to desist in conse- quence of the profuse hemorrhage : a needle was thrust across the swelling, (which was chiefly in the middle or isthmus,) and a stout double thread was tied tightly round the most prominent part, by which the blood was restrained; a slough followed, and the patient was relieved of a troublesome, tickling cough, which had resisted all other means of cure. Roux, after expending more than an hour in