515 HERNIA. OPERATIONS. One of the most common tests of hernia is the presence of a tumour, but this cannot always be appreciated, as has already been stated in p. 500; but there are certain symptoms usually denoting the state of strangulation which can scarcely be overlooked : the pain in the abdo- men—often of a gnawing, dragging kind,—nausea and vomiting, ob- stinate constipation, swelling of the bowels, thirst, feverishness, excited pulse, perhaps small and wiry, are all palpable symptoms of a strangulat- ed hernia, more especially if a tumour of the kind be present. If the surgeon has not been aware previously of the existence of such a dis- ease, the symptoms should be sufficient to induce him to question the patient on the subject, and should he also be in ignorance, a strict examination of all the ordinary seats of such protrusions should be in- stituted. If a tumour be present, there will be pain in it from the first, which will probably extend from thence over the abdomen, and now the protrusion will be more tense than usual, and ere long will be tender to the touch :—there may be inflammation on its surface as well as within. All the symptoms above enumerated may be present independent of hernia, or the tumour may be so very small as to be overlooked, or of a doubtful character: if, however, there be a dis- tinct swelling in the ordinary site of this disease, there need be little hesitation about the cause of the patient’s sufferings. Supposing the case to be one of hernia in a state of strangulation, as it is evident that the protrusion is in all probability the chief cause of the distressing symptoms, the first object with the surgeon should be, to return it into the abdomen by means of the taxis, as it is tech- nically called, viz., applying his fingers, and pushing the parts into their natural position,—the method of effecting which, in an ordinary case, will be afterwards explained. But it will often happen that this manoeuvre cannot be accomplished at once, and therefore certain means must be resorted to in order to facilitate the process. Usually the first step in the treatment of such a case is to administer a purge by the mouth,—this being done chiefly to ascertain if the intestinal canal is really obstructed, and partly, also, under the idea that the excited action produced thereby in the muscular fibres of the intestine, may draw the protruded portion within the abdominal cavity again,— and either before or after a purgative clyster is also resorted to : then antispasmodics are given by the mouth and per anurn, opium being administered in either way, and tobacco being given in the form of clysters and smoke, and a relaxing effect is further produced by the warm bath. Occasionally warmth is applied to the tumour by itself, but more frequently cold is put upon it by means of ether or ice. Sometimes leeches are placed upon the swelling, and generally blood is abstracted by the lancet, more especially if the strangulation be very recent, and the patient young and robust. The taxis often succeeds after one or more of such measures have been adopted ; but in many examples the efforts are unsuccessful, and the surgeon has to determine what is best to be done next. Still unwilling to put the patient to the hazard of a cutting operation, he may repeat some of these accessory means.