CHAPTER III. FRACTURES. Fractures of the lower extremity are, generally speaking, more serious in their nature than those of the upper, being accompanied with more danger to limb and life, and much more trouble in their treatment. In the foot such injuries are comparatively of rare occurrence ; and when they do happen, the destruction of the soft parts is usually so extensive, that each case must be considered more as a contused and lacerated wound of all the textures around, than as a fracture, whether simple or compound. One or more of the toes may be thus injured by heavy weights, as may be noticed in coal-heavers, quarry- men, stone-masons, and others similarly exposed ; and, as amputation is the only reasonable resource in most of such cases, the question of greatest importance for consideration will be with reference to the seat of operation. Unless the tarsus be involved in the injury, the idea of amputating the foot ought not to be entertained ; and as a general rule, applicable here as in most other parts of the body, the smallest possible degree of mutilation ought to be indicted, consistent with the object of the operation, which is, to remove such parts as are irrecoverably injured, and, at the same time, leave a properly-formed stump. In instances of fracture in the foot where there is no necessity for resorting to the knife, it is scarcely requisite to use any apparatus to keep the fragments in apposition ; in the toes the phalanges are so short, that if properly adjusted at first, they will remain so, unless the patient injudiciously bears his weight on the foot at too early a period ; even in the longer metatarsal bones, I have not found it necessary to apply splints ; leeches, with warm fomentations at first, and complete rest of the foot for twenty days afterwards, having constituted the most important parts of the treatment. The bones of the leg are greatly exposed to all injuries likely to produce fractures, and such cases form a large proportion of those that .are met with in ordinary practice. It is not usual to find the fibula broken, and the accident unaccom- panied with other injuries; such cases occur occasionally, however, and I have seen a well-marked instance of the kind where the bone was broken about four inches below its head, by the person falling against the margin of a step, so as to squeeze the outer part of the leg forcibly against it. In such a case there is little or no displacement, and the fracture can be discovered only after very careful mani- pulation ; there is no necessity for splints, as the tibia gives the most complete support, provided the patient is careful to give the limb suf- ficient rest. The fibula is sometimes broken in the lower third,