OPERATIONS ON THE UPPER JAWS. 483 disease; for though it may to all appearance occupy the whole of the antrum it may he connected with only one or other side of its circumference. Fortunately, in the greater number of cases it will be in front; it may, however, be behind and above; again in others it may involve almost the entire extent of. the superior maxilla, and in all, as it increases in size, the external projection will become more and m'ore apparent. Softness and rapidity of growth are, in my opi- nion, most indicative of malignancy in such cases ; and if combined with these the limits are indistinctly defined, and there are constitu- tional indications of such a growth, the disease is evidently one of a serious character. If, on the other hand, the swelling is hard and slow of increase; if the distinctions between it and the surrounding parts are apparent; if the person seems otherwise in good health, and in nowise disturbed by the swelling excepting by the incon- venience resulting from its bulk, then there may be every reason to suppose that it is benign in character. But, as already stated, there may be doubts about its connexions behind and above, and now pos- sibly the history of the disease may throw some light on this feature ; for, if the swelling has first become conspicuous in front, and then gradually extended backwards along the palate, and upwards and in- wards to the nostril, whilst there has never been deep-seated un- easiness, or pain, or feeling of obstruction in the back part of the nasal passage, there will be good reason to suppose that it has no intimate connexion with (i. e. that it does not involve) those struc- tures. Even yet, however, the surgeon should not be contented, and before giving a decision should pass a probe along the nostril and ascertain if it projects behind, and should also carry the point of his finger behind and above the soft palate so as to make a careful examination there too, and if he finds no swelling, or only a round solid mass similar to that in front, with a fissure (however small) be- tween the tumour and the base of the cranium, he may be well assured that the growth involves only the superior maxilla, or at most part of the palatine, spongy, and malar bones. But cases occur which in their early stages the most experienced may be uncertain about, and growths will sometimes project of a great size externally, whose deeper connexions it may be impossible to as- certain until an operation is performed. Sometimes, however, enor- mous tumours will protrude on the face from the upper jaw, when, nevertheless, the hard palate, especially the palatine piate of the palate-bone, the inner walls of the antrum, and the floor of the orbit, are so natural in condition, that it is impossible to deem the growth deep-seated. In the museum at Fort Pitt there is a specimen of a large osseous shell connected with the anterior wall of the antrum, which, doubtless, on the living body, must have produced a hideous appear- ance, in which, however, maceration shows that almost the entire of the hard palate, the inner, upper, and posterior walls of the cavity are in a natural condition. But perhaps few cases so well illustrate the enormous magnitude which such tumours will sometimes attain without