PLATE XVII. LITHOTRITY. Fig. 1. The method of M. Civiale.—The patient is laid in a horizontal position, with his seat raised up by a cushion, and his legs half-flexed out of the bed. The calculus 6, embraced by the three-branched forceps a, a, a, is seen through the bladder, at the moment at which the head-drill (foret-a-tete) r is beginning to perforate it. The left hand q of the surgeon keeps it steadily firm in the one direction against the external canula s, s, which latter, moreover, is fixed by the head c of the mandrel-lathe, and in the other direction on the free portion / of the litho- labe, while his right hand puts the bow in motion, m, A portion of the rod of the drill, which is inserted by degrees into the protecting canula or sheath provided with its leather circular box e, in proportion as the twisted or cork-screw spring (ressort on boudin) concealed in the upper branch I, of the mandrel, pushes its free portion, and that the bow acts on its pulley n. h, 6, The lower part of the mandrel, which an assistant holds solidly with his two hands o, o, placed underneath, and on which glides the portion h. The pressure-screw j is for the purpose of arresting, when we wish, the expansion of the cork-screw spring which presses against the drill, and the screw we notice at i is designed for adjusting the two portions of the instrument against each other, in the same way as the one marked at d fixes the litholabe in the interior of the external or sheath-canula. Fig. 2. The simple percussor of M. Heurteloup. Fig. 3. The volant stone-breaker, (brise-pierre a volant.) Fig. 4. The duck-billed screw and percussion stone-breaker—the screw at b. Fig. 5. The screw-socket or box which may be adapted to the preceding stone-breakers, and which resembles, in some measure, those that MM. Touzet, Leroy and L'Estrange have invented. Fig. 6. The stone-breaker of M. Jacobson, modified as is seen at b, c, d, and e, by M. Charriere, after my suggestions. Fig. 7. An ebony vice, which is opened or shut by relaxing or tightening the screw 6. It is in its opening a, that we adjust that portion of the lithotritic apparatus which is embraced by the head c of the mandrel-lathe, as seen in fig. 1, but it possesses no merit. Fig. 8. The urethral forceps of M. Civiale. Fig. 9. The percussion hammer.