PLATE II. CATARACT AND ARTIFICIAL PUPIL. Fig. 1. Cataract by Extraction at the moment when the operator is terminating the section of the Cornea.—a, The right hand of an assistant, the forefinger of which, 6, raises the upper eye- lid, while the other fingers remain spread out upon the temple, c. The left hand of the surgeon, holding the keratotome (2, in the manner of a writing-pen, and directing it slightly from above downwards, while the little finger of the right hand A, pressing upwards upon the ophthalmostat e, (of the author,) depresses the lower eyelid, and steadies the globe of the eye. The keratotome d traverses the anterior chamber through and through. The cutting edge of its point g, has emerged from the eye and arrived at the great angle, having glided under the border of the nail of the middle finger of the left hand, which nail thus serves for it as a point d'appui, and at the same time protects it from the surrounding tissues, until the section of the flap of the cornea is completed. Fig. 2. Cataract by Depression.—The upper eyelid is raised up by the forefinger b of the left hand of an assistant, while the body of the same hand a, supports the head of the patient. The lower eyelid is depressed by the forefinger d of the left hand c of the surgeon, who spreads out the other fingers e upon the root of the nose, while with his right hand /he puts into movement the needle g^ the handle of which h is supported on the forefinger of the same hand. This is at the moment when the needle having arrived into the pupil and lacerated the anterior capsule of the lens in a circular direction, is applied by its concavity upon the crystalline, in order to draw it downwards, backwards and outwards, by a simple vibratory or oscillating movement. Fig. 3. Artificial Pupil.— Corotomy and Corectomy.—Process of the author.—The knife a, introduced in the same way as for cataract, has passed through and through the cornea. When its point has arrived at 6, the flap e of the iris is found to be completely detached. The reason why the back of the knife is seen here is, because the natural pupil has been preserved. In withdrawing it from b to a, we take care not to cut through the point d, of the flap of the cornea, which still remains adherent to the sclerotica. The globe is steadied by the rounded point c, of the ophthalmostat, 4. Fig. 5. Physick's forceps, such as I have modified it. Fig. 6. The pupil forceps of Dr. Maunoir. Fig. 7. The small ocular forceps. Figs. 8, 9. M. Furnari's lance for incising the cornea. Fig. 10, 4. The ophthalmostat of tlie author, [Prof Velpeau.] Fig. 11. Dupuytren's needle, seen on its face and side. Fig. 12. Tenon's serpette, as modified by Boyer. Fig. 13. The keratotome of Wenzel. Fig, 14. The keratotome of Beer.