P L A T E I I. LIGATURE OF ARTERIES. Fig. X. The arteries raised up, on as many sounds, are seen on this figure at the great majo- rity of points where the surgeon is called upon to cut down to them. The patient is represented in a convenient position for a ligature upon each of them, except that we must suppose him to be lying horizontally for that upon the external iliac. The hands, instead of being placed from above downwards, should be in a contrary position for the carotid and subclavian, but if placed so here they would have concealed the parts of the figure too much. The other figures repre- sent, of their natural size, each wound of the kind at present under consideration. They retain its number and form, HEAD, NECK, AND UPPER EXTREMITY. Fig. 25. Ligature upon the Temporal Artery Fig. 26. Ligature on the Facial Artery. Fig. 27. Ligature on the Lingual Artery. Fig. 28, Ligature on the Occipital Artery. Fig. I. Ligature upon the Carotid.—1, 1, 1, The lips of the wound in the integuments pro- perly separated apart. 2, The platysma myoides muscle divided and drawn aside with the skin. 3, The sterno-mastoid drawn outwards. 4, The omo-hyoideus crossing the artery and dividing the infra-hyoid region into two triangles. 5, The sterno-hyoid. 6, The sterno-thyroid, 7, The fibrous layer which separates the muscles from the vessels, incised vertically and turned back towards the inside, that is, toward the trachea. 8, The clavicle, wliich the skin allows of being perceived through it. A, The common carotid artery disengaged from its sheath in the omo-tracheal triangle and raised up by the extremity of a sound. V, The jugular vein pushed back to tlie outside. N, The pneumo-gastric nerve, situated between the vein and the artery, and naturally concealed by these two vessels, N', The descending brancii of tlie ninth pair of nerves. Fig. 2. The Subclaviaji Artery outside of the Scalenus Anticus Muscle.—1, 1, 1, 1, Contour and lips of the wound. 7, 7, Direction of the clavicle. 2, Cervical border of the trapezius muscle. 3, Clavicular root of the sterno-mastoid muscle. 4, Omo-hyoideus. 5, Scalenus anticus. 6, The aponeurosis freed of its adipose layer and of the lymphatic ganglions, and then divided and raised up. A, The subclavian artery issuing from the chest, raised up by a sound from before backwards and from within outwards, between the tubercle of the first rib or the scalenus muscle and the lower cervical branch of the brachial plexus. A', The posterior cervical artery, which passes between the nervous cords of the plexus in order to reach to the rear. V, The external jugular vein, which is very voluminous in this subject and situated very far posteriorly. V, The subclavian vein partly concealed by the clavicle, and proceeding to cross the anterior surface of the scalenus, in order to enter into the chest, while passing behind the sterno-mastoid muscle. N, N, N, Bundles which contribute to form the nervous plexus of the axilla. N', N', Descending superficial branches of the cervical plexus, otherwise called the supra-acromial nerves.