PLATE VIII. EXSECTION OF BONES. Fig. 1. Exsection of the Head of the Humerus.—Left Arm.—Process adopted by the author.— In following this we make a large triangular flap, h, h, with its base above, and at the expense of the deltoid, which flap is then raised by the hand i of an assistant stationed behind. The surgeon, with his left hand, g, grasps the diseased arm j; divides on the head of the bone a, the same as for amputation of the limb, the capsule and tendons which surround it; luxates the humerus, and exposes to view the glenoid cavity b ; causes the borders of the wound^^ /, to be separated apart or depressed; finally seizes, with his right hand e, the saw c, in order to apply its blade d on the body of the bone, as low down as is required by the disease, and then to make it move in a slightly oblique direction from below upwards. Fig. 2. E.xsection of the Loioer Ar'ticular Extremity of the Humerus.— Orditiary process.— The figure represents the left limb, and the patient is lying upon his belly. After having cut a quadrilateral flap, g, g, at the expense of the triceps muscle, which flap the left hand h raises up at the same time that it supports the arm, we detach the anterior muscular tissues in such manner as to be enabled to glide between them and the bone a plate e,e, of thin wood or paste- board, or even a simple long compress folded several times double, and which the hand / is charged with keeping in place. The saw c, c, is conducted in such manner by the hand d, that its blade b falls almost perpendicularly on the body of the humerus, while the hand i, acting on the fore-arm j, is prepared to adapt itself to its movements. Upon the supposition that it were required to excise also the extremity of the ulna and of the radius, there would be nothing more to be done than to prolong downwards the first lateral incisions, and to make a third from a to in order to have two lower flaps instead of one only, and then to perform on the fore-arm what we have just described on the humerus. Fig. 3. Exsection of the Carpal Extremities of the Fore-arm.—Process of Moreau.—By means of an L incision we first cut on the dorsum of the limb i a triangular flap, e, or / Having dis- engaged the contour of the ulna, a, from the soft parts, we glide under its deep-seated surface the dismounted saw i, either by means of a grooved sound, flexible probe, or curved needle. To put this saw into action, it is necessary that the hand c of the surgeon, and the hand d of the assistant, which hold the handles j,j,j,j, should move in concert with each other, and that the hand h of the patient should be directed outwards and backwards by the assistant who has charge of it. We proceed, in the last place, but in the same manner, to the extraction of the head g of the radius. FORCEPS AND TENACULUM. Fig. 4. This forceps, which by means of a hook or opening seen at h, is very readily shut up,' as is shown by fig. «, and is at the same time opened with great facility. It is preferable to most of the slide or catch-forceps destined for the same purpose. It is found at the shop of M. Charriere. Fig. 5. Tenaculum, such as is used in France.