PLATE XXII. Fig. 15. M. Vidal's needle for the same operation. SEXUAL ORGANS OF WOMAN. Fig. 10. Tlie trivalve and developing speculum of M. Charriire.—This instrument appears to me the most perfect one we have at the present day. It is opened and shut up without the slightest noise, with the utmost ease, and almost imperceptibly. Fig. 13. The speculum with four valves and a bascule, made by the same artist. Fig. 14. Duges' trellis (en treillage) speculum. Fig. 11. A sort of piston, intended for introducing pomades or other medicated substances upon the neck of the uterus through the speculum, in which last, moreover, it may be used as a sort of mandrin or stylette. Fig. 3. The womb laid open on its internal surface, and containing a pediculated polypus, upon which the ligature is being applied by the method of Desault. The two instruments brought from behind forwards, cross each other on the anterior region of the polypus o, in such manner that the thread e, e, may strangulate its pedicle. After having turned them once or twice on their axis, there is nothing more to be done than to loosen one of the threads, by push- ing the stem li into the canula i, in order to open the forceps/. The thread-bearing tube g being removed, we apply the knot-tightener, and the operation stops there. Though applied very high up in the uterus, as is seen by its situation e, e, on the neck, the polypus nevertheless makes a considerable projection into the vagina d, d. Fig. 4. The ligature applied to a polypus, after the process of M. Mayor of Lausanne. The ligature c, c, having been passed around the neck a of the morbid mass 6, and supported thus far by the three small thread-bearing forks e, e, e, is not inserted into the cylinder d until after having been made to pass through the small balls of ivory or the chaplet, fig. 24 of Plate X. Fig. 5. The double canula of Levret. When the noose a accurately embraces the polypus^ we draw upon the threads 6, b, in order to tighten it. These threads are afterwards attached to the rings of the canula, which latter also is to be turned on its axis when we wish to make still greater constriction. Fig. 6. Ligature-bearing forceps of Desault, modified in this particular, that the ring a gives movement to it by means of a screw, and fixes it by means of the catch b. Fig. 7. Ligature-bearing forceps of Levret. Fig. 8. Dupuytren's screw-knot-tightener. The body c is slit throughout its whole length, in order to enable the fly e, which is lodged in it, to glide along freely. This fly, to which the thread 6 is fastened, tightens or loosens the noose a, as often as we act upon the plate d, and without deranging anything. Fig. 9. The same instrument, armed with a ring d, and carrying at the extremity of its screw b a button e, instead of a plate. Fig. 1. Ordinary caustic-holder, (porte-crayon,) a little longer than usual, in order to touch the neck of the uterus with nitrate of silver. Fig. 2. M. Ricord's three-branched forceps, to introduce the nitrate of silver without danger into the interior of the neck of the uterus. Fig. 12. M. Roux's needles for suture of the perineum.