PLATE XVI INTESTINAL SUTURES. Fig. 1. A, The Glover's Suture.—The borders of the wound situated lengthwise, with the gut, are turned inwards, after the process of M. Lembert. The two ends 6, 6, of the thread are to be brought forward and fixed outside, or are to be cut off very near the intestine, should we adopt the plan of leaving everything in the belly. B, The same form of wound united together by the suture of Le Dran, whose borders a are also turned inwards. The nooses 6, 6,6, 6, of the ligature, which are first rolled together sepa- rately, are afterwards seen to be all united together in c, which forms a cord, and which is to be fastened outside. C, A complete section or division through the intestine. In place of invaginating them according to the method of M. Jobert, the two ends / of the intestine 6, 6, are simply turned inwards upon their mucous coat, according to the process of M, Lembert, (see above.) Three points c of the free suture unite the divided gut. The mesentery a has been divided trans- versely in a direction parallel with the vessels d, in order to give greater facility to the manipula- ions upon the wound of the intestine. D, Transverse section or division of the gut, through and through, as in the last, (C.) The suture here is made with the three metallic rings of M. Denans, placed within the gut. These rings are here of gum-elastic, a. The central or internal ring, the external surface of which is perceived through a slight separation of the lips of the wound. 6, 6, The ends of the intestine, each of which is folded inwards upon a distinct ring, after which these ends are brought into approximation upon their rings, and thus maintained, supported as these ends are, upon the internal ring, c, A noose of thread which, after having passed through the interior of the inner- most ring, pierces the intestine externally to the other two, and has its two ends firmly knotted, so as to keep the three rings close together. We see at G, one of the ends e of the divided intestine provided with its appropriate ring, and the serous or external surface of the end of the gut dou- bled or turned in upon the inner surface of the ring, f The other end of the intestine, also turned in upon its appropriate ring, as in the last, exhibits also a portion of the common or internal ring rf, on the point of being introduced into e, in order to terminate the operation. E, A longitudinal wound of the gut, treated by the process of M. Raybard. A plate of thin wood or of gum-elastic, traversed in its middle by a noose of thread i, i, is to be first prepared. This plate is then to be glided into the intestine, the contour and position of the plate being designated by the dotted line e, e, e. Its thread is immediately passed from within outwards, in such manner as to perforate through the walls of the belly at/',/', before the extremities/',/', of this thread are tied or twisted together, cr, a, The right lip of the intestinal wound, 6, 6, The left lip of the same wound. g,g,g,g, The borders of the division through the walls of the belly. LITHOTRITIC INSTRUMENTS. Fig. 2. The straight catheter of Gruithuisen. a, a, The body of the catheter, b, The extre- mity of the stylet or mandrin g, g, uniting at e with the catheter, and moved by the ring c. / A vacant space left to show that the instrument is shorter in the figure than in the original.