PLATE XIII. I. TRACHEOTOMY. Fig. 1. The head of the patient is slightly elevated. The lips of the wound are separated apart in order to expose to view more clearly the different layers which it is necessary to divide- The canula is placed with its concavity in front and downwards, as it was by M. Bretonneau on Mademoiselle Puysegur. a, a, a, a, Angles and lips of the division of the integuments. 6, 6, Superficial layer of the cervical aponeurosis, c, Its deep-seated layer, d, d, The sterno- hyoid muscles, e, The lower rings of the trachea, i, The canula, with its two small rings, and seen at its larger extremity, g, One of the largest infra-hyoid veins divided, h, A portion of the thyroid body laid bare and pushed upwards by the canula. Fig. 6. The instrument of Baucliot, which is a sort of flattened trochar, very short, and pro- vided with a canula, and designed for performing the operation in a single movement by means of puncture. Fig. 3. Two flattish canulas of M. Bretonneau, encased one within the other, and seen on their edge. Figs. 4 and 8. Represent their openings and the rings seen in front. Fig. 5. A small brush or swab (ecouvillon) of metallic threads, used for cleansing out the interior of the canulas, when they are adjusted in their place, and for expelling all mucosities from them. (See Plate XV. fig. 4, Bivalve canula of M. Gendron, and the ordinary canula, fig. 5.) II. CESOPHAGOTOMY. Fig. 2. The division of the parts has been completed. The bistoury b is beginning to pene- trate into the oesophagus /, facilitated as it is by the beak g of the sound a, which has been previously introduced through the mouth and pharynx, down as far as to the foreign body, with the view of making the oesophagus project outwards, and in order to disengage it from the enormous vessels by which it is surrounded, d, Angles and anterior lip of the wound of the integuments, e. The sterno-mastoid muscles on the outside, and the sterno-hyoid and sterno- thyroid muscles on the inside, h, The left lobe of the tliyroid gland crossed by a branch of the superior thyroid artery, i, The omo-hyoid muscle, allowing a view of the portion k of the primi- tive carotid artery in front of the thumb of the right hand c, or on the back of the bistoury. /,/, The trachea lying on the anterior and left region of the oesophagus. Figs. 10 and 11. Instruments of Vacca, one curved, the other straight, a, a, The conducting catheter. 6, The ring of the elastic stem, which moves the branch c. III. EXCISION OF THE TONSILS. Fig. 7. Depressor of the tongue, (Colombat.) Fig. 9. Tonsillotome of M. Velpeau, armed with its movable pique d, g, h. Fig. 12. The inter-maxillary ring of M. Saint-Yves.