PLATEXXI. LATERALIZED LITHOTOMY. Fig. 1. An assistant placed on the right, holds with his left hand a, the sound c, while incli- ning it a little to that side, while with his right hand i, he gently raises up the scrotum. The legs i, i, and the thighs h, h, flexed and separated apart, and strongly raised up, are held in this manner by two other assistants. With their hand d, d, they fix the knee /, /, against their chest; while with their other hand e, e, they embrace the foot g, g, by its inner border and ♦ plantar surface. The integuments and all the soft parts in this figure, are incised down to the bladder. The lithotome of F. Come, introduced shut up, is opened, in order to incise the prostate from behind forwards. As the back of its sheath is made to rest against the right branch of the pubes, rather than directly against the symphysis or against the upper angle q, of the wound of the integuments, its blade thereby has almost a transverse direction towards the border s, and no longer towards the angle r, of that wound. Its bascule n, is held against the handle m, by the hand k, of the operator, who opens it in this manner, while his other hand /, embraces its ar- ticulation 0, laterally, between the thumb and radial border of the flexed forefinger. The whole is a little more depressed here and more inclined than it should be, because the wound and in- strument itself would otherwise have been, to a great extent, concealed by the hands of the surgeon. INSTRUMENTS. Fig. 2. Form of the Ordinary Sound.—Its plate, a, gives much more fatigue to the hand than if it were armed with a handle like that on Plate XVII. Its beak 6, though blunted, is in no respect dilated, and its groove c, c, c, has much less width than in that of Dupuytren. Fig. 3. Forceps for introducing lint, &c., upon the neck of the uterus. Fig. 4. Anal canula for preventing the rectum from re-contracting. Fig. 5. The rectal spindle (fuseau) of English practitioners. Fig. 6. Speculum ani, cleft on the back.