PLATE XX. LITHOTOMY. SURGICAL ANATOMY.—INSTRUMENTS. Fig. 1. The object of this figure is to expose to view the parts that are wounded, or that may- be wounded, in performing the operation of lithotomy. The subject is placed on his right side. All the left side of the abdomen, comprising with it the hip and breech [of that side"] are removed, in such manner, however, that the separation is outside of the median line. The lithotome j of F. Come, placed as it is, would almost unavoidably wound the termination of the rectum I, I, should we not take care to elevate its handle in withdrawing it. The uretro-anal triangle k, k', k", represents, in its upper border k, k', the line for entering [the bladder,] and by its lower border k, k", the line for the withdrawal of the bistoury, which has performed the office of opening a passage for the concealed lithotome. The lower angle k", [of this triangle] falls on the anus i, its deep-seated angle k on the neck of the bladder, and its anterior angle k' on the front part of the perineum. If the instrument were placed on the line k, c, k', it would incise the prostrate without danger as far as to b; while in the position in which we see it, it would almost inevitably wound the intestine, if we should wish to extend the wound c, C, to beyond c'. If the incision were commenced upon the membranous portion d of the urethra, it would present some advantages for the extraction of the calculus; but it would be difficult to avoid the bulb e, which has the appearance here of being strongly curved, in consequence of the remainder/ of the urethra being left pendant, and the left corpus cavernosum being raised up. The vesicula seminalis m, in reality runs no risk, except in recto-vesical lithotomy. Then, in fact, the incision, being restricted between the peritoneal cavity n, n, and the prostate 6, when we follow the original process of M. Sanson, would expose to the risk also of wounding the vas deferens p, or the pouch, [i. e. the vesicula seminalis,] which runs along its outer side. The peritoneum r, r, r, r, r, r, r, r, which, from the front part of the rectum /, I, ascends upwards behind the bladder a, a, a, in order to line the posterior surface of the abdominal muscles s, leaves the ureter o, o, and the seminal duct outside of it and in the subjacent cellular tissue. They have been raised up in this plate, in order to expose the parts to the view better. In hypogastric lithotomy, we first penetrate down to the cellular space ^, and the bladder may afterwards be opened from the root of the urachus y, down to the sheath of the lithotome, oppo- site the section of the pubis h. F'ig. 2. The gorget of Hawkins. Its languette [or small blunt point] occupies the middle line of the termination of the blade, which last is regularly concave and cutting to a great extent. Fig. 3. The sonde-a-dard of F. Come. Fig. 6. The cystotome-bistoury of M. Belmas. Fig. 4. The lithotome-trochar of F. Come. When the point a has arrived, by puncture, in the space t of fig. 1, the surgeon firmly holds its body d against the pubis /i, while with the other hand he forcibly directs its bascule b, and cutting edge c, towards the umbilicus, as far as s. Fig. 8. The suspensory-crotchet of F. Come. When its extremity a is once in the bladder, itn handle b is confided to an assistant, whose duty it is to raise up the organ [the bladder] while it is being incised from above downwards. Figs. 9 and 10. Suspensory cystotomes of M. Leroy. Fig. 11. The triploid suspensory of M. Leroy. Fig. 7. The cystotome-sound of M. Leroy. Fig. 5. Erigne-forceps of the author, for polypi and the neck of the uterus.