PLATE I. MANNER OF HOLDING THE BISTOURY. [SEE VOLUME I.] Fig. 1. Straight Bistoury loith a Spring.—Those bistouries that have the handle fixed, possess the inconvenience of not allowing of their being shut up. Those which have no spring, though they may perhaps be somewhat more easily cleaned, are handled with less facility, while this one might, if necessary, be substituted for all of them. A sliding button, such as exists on those made by M. Charriere, is moreover an excellent substitute for the spring. Fig. 2. Convex Bistoury.—The cutting edge of this bistoury being uniform from the point to the heel, it is more convenient than those in which the blade, broader in the middle part than posteriorly, has a cutting edge only on one half of it, or on its two anterior thirds. Fig. 3. Bistoury with an English form.—In England they scarcely make use of any other than small convex bistouries, movable on their handles. Their use, which is convenient when it is a matter of importance to keep the instrument at a very short distance from the parts to be divided, is never absolutely called for, and the French bistoury may always be substituted for them. Fig. 4. Straight Blunt-pointed, or Button-pointed Bistoury.—This is the bistoury with which the tonsils are excised when we perform staphyloraphy, and the one with which we enlarge certain abscesses, fistulas, &c. Fig. 5. First Position, or tlie convex bistoury held in the full hand, with its cutting edge downwards. Fig. 6. The same position, or the bistoury held in the full hand with its cutting edge upwards. Fig. 7. Second Position, the cutting edge of the bistoury held in the manner of a bow and facing downwards. Fig. 8. The same position, with the cutting edge facing upwards. Fig. 9. Tfiird Position, or the bistoury held as a writing-pen, the cutting edge upwards. Fig. 10. Same position, and the point of the bistoury turned backwards or towards the wrist. Fig. 11. Fourth Position, the bistoury held as a pen, with the cutting edge upwards. Fig. 12. Same position, and the point of the bistoury turned backwards. Fig. 13. Fifth Position, the bistoury held as a bow, the cutting edge transversely. SUTURES. Fig. 14. Simple or Interrupted, (a points separes) Suture.—A, A, A, Nooses [or points] of the suture. B, B, B, Rosettes, or bow-knots, which fix or fasten each of its points. Fig. 15. The Basting (en faufil) Suture.—A, A, Extremities of the thread, and which are to be knotted separately, and which have been left free in order to comprehend the nature of the process better. B, B, B, Points of the suture. Fig. 16. Twisted Suture. Fig. 17. Quilled Suture.—A, A cylinder of adhesive plaster, wood, whalebone, gum-elastic, or metal, fixed on one side of the wound by the nooses of each thread. B, Second cylinder of adhe- sive plaster, on which is to be fastened by a knot the free extremity of each point of the suture. Fig. 18. Spiral, Whip, or Glover^s Suture.—A, A, Extremities of tlie thread a little drawn upon in order to tighten their turns. B, B, B, Points of the suture.