PLATE IV. AMPUTATIONS. UPPER EXTREMITY. Fig. 1. Amputation at the Wrist.—The Flap method.— Ordinary process.—«, The right hand of the operator, holding the knife 6, ahnost horizontally, to cut the palmar flap and to remove the hand rf, which he supports and depresses himself with his left hand c. e. The dorsal flap raised up on the fore-arm. f., Adipose layer and anterior border of the wound, Dorsal aponeurosis of the metacarpus, /t, Ji, /i, li, Divided tendons of the extensor muscles. /, Radial and ulnar arteries divided. A', Head of the ulna. The articulation having been divided, we perceive in front the head, m, formed by the union of the scaphoid, semilunar and pyramidal bone behind, i, i, The corresponding cavities pre- sented by the radius and ulna, and then a little farther on, three fibrous sheaths, one radial, one ulnar, and the other a middle sheath, which are destined for the tendons of the three principal bundles of muscles employed in extending the hand or the fingers. Fig. 2. Amputufion of the Fore-arm.— The Circular method.—Also the modification ichich con- sists in dividing the muscles from tlie bones to the aponeurosis.—a. Right hand of the operator, holding the knife h. c, His left hand, supporting the wrist, (/, of the patient, e. The part of the fore-arm which should be embraced by one of the hands of the assistant. /, Incision through the skin at two inches below the place where the bones are to be sawed, g, The muscular tissues and aponeurosis denuded of their integuments, h, Flap of skin with its cellular tissue, dissected and raised up in the form of a ruff, i, Place of entrance of the knife, k, Place of exit of the knife. As it is the right limb, and which has to be turned in pronation, and the operator to be placed on the inner side, the skin must be kept raised up by an assistant. For the left fore-arm it would be the corresponding hand of the operator; the assistant then takes charge of the hand of the patient. ^ Fig. 3. Disarticulation of the Arm.—Ovalar method.—Process of the author.—The patient being seated, and the humerus disarticulated, the member is upon the point of being separated from the trunk. In place of being in front, the operator, if it is the left limb, would place himself behind. a, The right hand of the surgeon acting on the knife b. c, The left hand, holding the arm d in such manner as to separate its upper extremity as much apart from the trunk as possible, with the view of favoring the passage of the instrument, e, e, e, The triangular flap of the del- toid, strongly depressed, in order to expose the bottom of the wound. // The borders of the division reuniting above at an acute angle, a little in front of the acromion ^, the summit of which ordinarily forms the point of departure for the wound, h, Glenoid cavity bordered with a remnant of fibrous capsule, i, Cartilaginous head of the humerus, surrounded near its neckj with a portion of the articular capsule, k, The body of the humerus exposed to view by the depression of the deltoid flap. /, The right hand of an assistant placed behind tlie patient, which assistant is to compress the axillary vessels while the operator is terminating the separation of the limb. This manner of suspending the course of blood through the artery of the arm, and which is employed in almost all the other processes, and appears to date its origin as far back as to Le Dran, is always eflfected by the manipulation here described.