PLATE V. AMPUTATIONS. FINGERS AND LOWER EXTREMITY. Fig. 1. Amputation of the Fingers.—Ovalar method.—Process of M. Scoutetten.—1, The right hand terminating the incision, 2, of the integuments, which incision the operator had commenced on the dorsum of the carpus, 3, in such manner as to surround the entire root of the finger. 4, Aspect of the wound immediately after the amputation. We perceive there from behind for- wards the extensor tendon, the head of the bone, the cut surface of the ligaments, and the flexor tendon and its sheath. We are to suppose that an assistant is present to separate the other fingers apart, and that the left hand of the surgeon acts in a proper manner on that which he is amputating. Amputation of the Phalanges.— The Flap method.— Ordinary pj'ocess.—5, The right hand of the operator, holding the bistoury 7, and cutting out the anterior flap, [i. e. the palmar,] to separate the second phalanx from it, and which latter [i. e. the phalanx] the left hand, 6, causes to vibrate, (basculer,) and endeavors to remove from the first phalanx. An assistant should embrace with his left hand the root of this finger and the thumb, while with the right hand he keeps the three other fingers apart and flexed. Fig. 2. Disarticulation of the Metatarsus.—1 and 2, The hands of the surgeon pressing on the point of the foot and on the knife 3, at the moment at which he is about to terminate the [plan- tar] flap whicli is to cover the articular surface. 4, The bleeding surface of this flap. 5, The projection which is made on the inside by, the first cuneiform bone. 6, The anterior articular surface (facette) of the same bone. 7, 7, 7, The articular surface of the three last cuneiform bones. 8, The bottom of the tarsal mortice destined for the reception of the extremity, 10, of the second metatarsal bone. 9, 9, 9,9, The cartilaginous articulating surfaces of the four other metatarsal bones. 11, 11, The [cut] extremities of the dorsalis pedis artery. Fig. 3. Disarticulation of the Thigh.—Ovalar metlwd.—Process of M. Cornuau.—1, The haunch or hip of the patient, who is placed in a recumbent position on his sound side. 2, The right hand of the surgeon holding the knife 4, while the left hand, 3, supports the thigh 10, the separation of which from the trunk is upon the point of being accomplished. 5, 5, 5, The superior angle and lips of the wound. 6, The head of the femur, luxated and detajched from the cotyloid cavity 7. 8, The inter-articular ligament divided. 9, 9, 9, 9, The cut surface of the different muscles. We must also suppose here that there is an assistant stationed behind, with his back turned towards the head of the bed, and supporting the diseased hip, while another assistant is charged with the leg.