Situation. F requency. 22 Studies in Pathological Anatomy. Dermoid cysts have occasionally been found in the larynx (Blane, Molliere). Cysts occur frequently upon the epiglottis, and are then extra-laryngeal, on the vocal cords, or ventricular bands, less frequently springing from the ventricles. Occasionally they may be infraglottic, and exceptionally pedunculated. IV. MYXOMA. Fauvel places myxomata next in frequency to papillo- mata, and states that they belong to the variety termed papillary, and quotes Cornil and Ranvier, who further state that elastic fibres are often met with in the substance of the morbid mass. Fauvel also states that it is rare to find fibrous polypi in the larynx ; he only records eleven cases out of 300 laryngeal growths in which a microscopical examination was made, and in which it may be presumed the growths were more or less purely myxomatous, and a large number of growths under such terms as myxoid, mucous polypus, myxoma, no reference being made as to microscopic examination, and which were most probably fibro-cellular growths (or “soft fibromata”). Mackenzie states, “these growths (myxomata) are very rare,” but fibro-cellular tumours (pink or red-coloured, with smooth surface) have been more common in his practice. The only myxoma with which he has met, was reported upon by Dr. Stephen Mackenzie as exhibiting various kinds of structure in different parts; in some, connective tissue pre- dominating ; in others, fibrous tissue ; in others, gelatinous tissue; in other parts there was an abundance of papillae, “ a growth which resembles in the first portion described the connective tissue tumour of Vogel, but in the softer parts it approximated closely to a myxoma.” It was therefore not a pure myxoma. In a case of Bruns the growth before removal was regarded as a soft fibroma. It was found microscopically to consist of a capsule, composed of fibrillar connective tissue covered with epithelium, in parts a single layer, in others several layers. Inside the capsule was gelatinous or mucous