Studies in Pathological Anatomy. 7 been enabled to make a microscopic diagnosis of papilloma in the case of a young child sent to us by a very able surgeon for an opinion. It is often impossible to deter- mine the nature of a growth in the larynx by simple inspection. A portion should always be submitted to microscopic diagnosis. The situation, colour, size, &c., of a growth by no means necessarily indicate its nature. The microscope thus becomes the only certain dia- gnosis, and by systematically adopting this method of examination grave errors of diagnosis, prognosis, and treat- ment may be avoided. The locality of benign growths in the larynx varies. The anterior portions of the vocal cords have a greater predilec- tion for neoplasms than the posterior. The subglottic region is less frequently affected than the upper regions, but growths often spring from beneath the anterior commissure of the vocal cords. The mucous membrane of the ventricular bands, aryepiglottic folds, and arytenoid region is less often the site of neoplasms. The epiglottis is frequently the seat of growths, its lower (laryngeal) surface most commonly presenting papillomata, and its upper (lingual) surface cystic growths. Benign growths are sometimes met with in the trachea. It is worthy of remark that the interarytenoid region, which is so seldom the seat of benign neoplasms, is very commonly the situation of the polypoid vegetations of tuberculosis. A very important question is that of the course and terminations of benign growths. Whereas papillomata tend to grow, sometimes slowly, often quickly, fibromata and other benign tumours, as a rule, possess a very slow rate of growth. In the former, rapid increase of size may be noticed within a few months ; in the latter, it may occupy years. The accurate examination, therefore, of portions removed becomes extremely important. Papillomata some- times undergo fatty or cystic degeneration, or even excep- tionally caseous degeneration (Causit) or suppuration may detach them (Schwartz). A few cases are on record in which the tumour has been spontaneously extruded in its Importance of' microscopical examination. Situation of benign growths.. Course and terminations of benign neoplasms.