Studies in Pathological Anatomy. 19 (Plate VI., Fig. 2, and Plate VI f.). In the first figure a section of a soft fibroma is shown, composed of myxoid and fibrous tissue, and covered with the normal laryngeal epithelium. In the second figure the tumour is seen composed almost solely of closely-set fibrous tissue, with interspersed glandular masses, and a partial covering of epithelium. Both tumours are but slightly vascular. III. CYSTIC TUMOURS. Cysts of the larynx are said by some writers to be rare tumours. Moure, of Bordeaux, published, in 1881, a careful essay on cysts of the larynx, in which he had collected sixty-eight cases, thirty-four of which were entirely new. The most complete record of cases collected up to the present time is that of Ulrich, of Wurzburg. He gives details of sixty cases of cysts of the epiglottis; fifty cases of cysts of the vocal cords1; eight cases of cysts of the ven- tricles of Morgagni, and eight cases of cysts of the arytenoid cartilages and ary-epiglottic folds. Massei has seen thirteen cysts in 200 cases of laryngeal tumours, and Garel has recently related sixteen cases of cysts of the larynx. This makes a total of 165 cases recorded of cystic growths in the larynx. Moure’s definition of a cyst is good. We should understand by a cyst (1) a tumour possessing a clearly circumscribed and organized wall, the cavity not communi- cating either with the exterior, with any vascular, serous, or mucous channel ; (2) the contents of the tumour are generally liquid or serous, sometimes thick, or even gelatinous or colloid. The contents may also be sanguineous, and the case recorded by Johnson, which is sometimes included under angiomata, was a vascular cyst. Often they contain degenerated epithelial cells, granular detritus, and fat globules, and sometimes blood corpuscles. They have been found to have atheromatous contents (Schwartz). The histological structure of cysts of the larynx is the same as that of similar growths occurring in other spots. Frequency of occurrence. Definition. Contents. Pathological anatomy.