2 “ Observations on Diseases of the Throat and Nose,” 1887. Chorditis Tuberosa, &c. Ulceration and haemorrhage. Anatomy. 18 Studies in Pathological Anatomy. appear to be firmly incorporated with the tissues from which they spring. They vary in colour from pale grey to bright red : in consistence they are sometimes hard, at others soft, and easily indented with a probe. This character has caused them to be divided into two varieties—the hard and the soft fibromata. The former are considered to be composed of dense fibrous tissue, and to be more closely in- corporated with the sub-mucous tissues. The latter contain more intercellular fluid, and have wider meshes of tissue, are more readily detached, and are supposed not to extend so deeply into the sub-mucous tissue. The fibromatous tumour is generally invested exterrally with a well-defined epithelial layer. Mackenzie remarks that in some of the specimens examined by him this epithelial layer was want- ing. This has appeared to be the case in some specimens examined by us. “ The chorditis tuberosa” and “ the singers’ nodes ” of German authors are both examples of development of fibrous tissue. These little nodular hypertrophies, which are situated on the surface or free border of the vocal cord, and which arise out of chronic laryngitis, do not deserve to be included among neoplasms, being the result of chronic inflammation. Fibromata are occasionally said to ulcerate, but this is very exceptional, and ulceration of any growth should lead to great suspicion of malignancy. The ulceration of a fibrous tumour is generally quite superficial, being merely erosion of the epithelial layer. Sometimes there is more or less rich vascularization both of the tumour and its sur- rounding, and these vessels may be eroded in the process of superficial ulceration. Copious bleeding may result, and, as Stoerk has remarked, such tumours may be mis- taken for vascular growths, or the bleeding for ^haemoptysis A remarkable case of this kind, “ aphonia, haemoptysis, and large fibroid tumour in the larynx,” is related by Stoerk,1 and Chiari recently recorded a case of laryngitis haemor- rhagica combined with fibroma.2 The anatomy of fibromata is well shown in the two figures 3 “ Krankheiten cles Kehlkopfs,” 1880, p. 408.