Studies in Pathological Anatomy. 23 tissue, composed of a few cells, varying in size or shape, im- bedded in homogeneous inter-cellular substance; the fibrous tissue below the epithelium was not sharply defined from the gelatinous tissue. The tumour was divided into lobes and lobules by numerous transverse partitions. This is probably one of the rare and only true myxomata which have, as yet, been recorded as occurring in the larynx. It is not uncommon to meet with tumours of mixed character, which are partly myxoma, and even partly angioma. Most of the cases which were described by Fauvel as myxoma, and of which no microscopic examination has been recorded, were most probably fibromata of the variety known as fibro-cellular, or soft fibroma, and this accounts for the fre- quency with which myxomata are mentioned in his work on laryngeal tumours, and the rarity of their occurrence with other observers. Clinton Wagner described a case of a myxoma (exa- mined by Heitzjnann) spontaneously detached after violent paroxysms of coughing from the left ventricle of the larynx of a lady. Dr. Heitzmann described it as “ of the size of a “ small pea-nut, pear-shaped, greyish-white, of jelly-like con- “ sistence, composed of protoplasmic strings in a reticular “ arrangement, in close resemblance to the structure of the “ umbilical cord. The meshes were filled with a fine reti- “ culum of coagulated fibrin and numerous lymph-corpuscles. “ The central portion consisted at its periphery of a coarse “ reticulum of coagulated fibrin blending with that of the “ myxomatous portion, also supplied with numerous lymph- “ corpuscles. The main mass of the central portion, how- “ ever, was coagulated albumen only. “ Tne tumour was a myxoma (polypoid tumour) of a “ strictly benign character. Evidently it had grown in the “ vicinity of a large—perhaps varicose—sub-mucous lymph- “ vessel, which, by bursting, produced an inundation of “ the tumour with lymph. This fluid partly destroyed the “ myxomatous structure, and completely replaced it in the “centre.” (“Archives of Laryngology,” vol. i., p. 332.) Eeman, of Ghent, described a myxoma, smooth and round on the surface, with a certain degree of transparency,