Studies in Pathological Anatomy. 11 hours, according to the size of the tumour. In the winter a paraffin melting at ioo° F., and in summer one melting at iio°F. is the best to use. After soaking in paraffin the tumour is well permeated with it. It must now be mounted in a little paper or cardboard box, in such a way that sec- tions can be made perpendicular to the base of the tumour. For very small tumours (which are often most important in the matter of prognosis) this is often difficult; but the difficulty is much diminished by examining the growth carefully with a lens while it is in the melted paraffin. Sections are best cut with a sliding razor (as, e.g., in Swift’s microtome), and placed in a watch glass containing oil of turpentine, to remove the paraffin. When this is quite dissolved away, the section must be transferred to a slide, the turpentine soaked off with blotting paper, and the speci- men mounted in Canada balsam dissolved in xylol. If it is requisite to preserve the tumour after a few sections are made, melted paraffin is poured over the cut surface. Thus excluded from the air it will keep for months. This method has been thus detailed because it is the best for examining these tumours, especially if they are small. Though the process is a long one, the results obtained are worth the time expended, especially as accurate diagnosis is, in most cases, of the greatest importance in the matter of treatment. All tumours of the air-passages may be examined in this manner. Pathological Anatomy. The pathological anatomy of papillomata growing from Pathological membranes covered with stratified epithelium is very simple. papiSomau. Such tumours are composed of digitations, simple at first, afterwards branched. Each digitation, even the smallest, is covered with a layer of stratified epithelium, in the centre of which is a core of fibrous tissue containing blood-vessels. The core is separated from the superimposed layer of epithe- lium by a basement membrane. There are variations in different tumours, or even in dif- ferent papillae of the same tumour, which render it important