Studies in Pathological Anatomy. 13 aggrega.ti°ns of cells in the width of the epithelium of a papilla (Plate I. b), cells which, like the lowest cells of the papillae, are stained deeply with carmine ; in other parts, a central core is seen in them, which in some specimens is found to consist of fibrous tissue. This last point shows them to be merely cross-sections at various levels of secondary papillae. On close inspection they bear no resemblance to the nests of epithelioma. The latter have no central core of fibrous tissue, and are collections of flattened or oval epithelium. In some sections of compound papilloma, the lowest layer of epithelium seems to merge with the round cells of the fibrous core. This is only apparently so; as the epithe- lium under a low power of the microscope is seen to still preserve its unbroken line, and the appearance is really produced by the fact of the indistinctness, or sometimes absence of the basement membrane in the smaller papillae of the compound papilloma. The Basement Membrane in the large papillae of compound papilloma, and in the early stage of all papil- lomata, is quite distinct, and forms a limiting membrane to the epithelium. In the secondary papillae, as has just been mentioned, it is often indistinct, or even lost, and may be ruptured in the course of preparation of the specimen. The Fibrous Core varies in character greatly. It may be composed simply of fibrous tissue, as shown in Plate I., and Plate II., Fig. 1., or it may have a large number of round cells in its composition (as in Fig. 2., Plate II., and Fig. 1., Plate IV.), or again it may be very myxomatous, com- posed of branching cells separated by fluid, as in Plate III. The number of round cells bears some relation to the vascu- larity, and perhaps to rapidity of growth of the tumour, and varies in different ^parts of the same tumour. The Vascularity of the stroma varies greatly. Most papillomata have only a small number of vessels at the base, some running up the papillae (Plates I. and II., Fig. 1.). In others the vessels are so numerous that the term “ vascular papilloma ’ might be applied to the tumour. Such, for example, was the tumour from the tongue, of which Fig. 2,