Shtdies in Pathological Anatomy. 5 With regard to the etiology of benign growths of the etiology of larynx, we must admit a predisposition and an exciting neoplasms, cause. There is no doubt that occasionally they are con- genital (e.g, the well-known case of Edis, of a child which died of suffocation thirty-seven hours after birth, and in which a cystic growth was found in the larynx), and possibly many cases of papilloma of the larynx in young children are of this nature. French writers sometimes speak of a “ polypoid diathesis,” which, however, is very doubtful. Virchow spoke of a local predisposition, and Oertel has gone so far as to refer the individual predis- position to a general tendency to scrofula and tuberculosis. In many cases inquired into by him scrofula, anaemia, chlorosis, and tubercle could be traced in the families. This etiological connection is more particularly traced in those cases in which the growths occur in early life. In the adult, the cause has been sought in chronic catarrhs of the larynx by most observers. Gottstein denies that chronic iaryngitis can be a cause, but asserts that it is the common effect of laryngeal growths. We are in a position to affirm positively that papillomata may develope out of chronic laryngitis. These cases are not often seen at the commencement, but we have lately watched the papillomata appear and grow in the larynxes of two patients affected with obstinate chronic laryngitis, the mucous membrane of which was previously entirely free from such growths. Excessive use of the voice has for long been looked upon as a common etiological factor in the production of laryn- geal neoplasms. Gottstein relates a curious case, occur- ring in the practice of Sommerbrodt, in which a mucous polypus was developed at the anterior commissure of the vocal cords in a clergyman eighty years of age, probably as the result of suddenly resigning the use of his voice, with relinquishment of his profession. That a laryngeal growth may be pathologically “ benign,” Clinical aspect and yet possess certain clinical aspects of local “malig- neoplasms, nancy,” is well known. Gerhardt long ago drew attention to the fact that the removal of a papilloma from one situation, accompanied with wounding of tissue at other spots, even