6 Studies in Pathological Anatomy. perfectly healthy, to all appearance, is sometimes followed by secondary crops of papilloma at these spots, giving to the growth a sort of local contagiousness. A property possessed by papillomatous growths, in particular, is their tendency to recur at the original site, just as malignant tumours do. Another singular character possessed by them is that of occurring sometimes in heterologous situations, i.e., in spots where papillae do not usually occur. They endanger life, not as cancers do, by their profound influence upon the constitutional system, or by invasion of important neighbour- ing organs, but merely by their local effects, as offering obstruction to the normal breath-way, in degrees varying with their situation and size. They lead to dysphagia only, as a rule, when interfering mechanically with the movements of the epiglottis. The vocal function is disturbed in most cases, or abolished, and it is important to note that the smaller and more sessile growths closely incorporated with the substance of the vocal cord will often lead to a greater degree of aphonia than larger and pedunculated tumours. This is supposed to be because the vibrations of the cords are more interfered with in the former case. Fibromata, from their frequent origin in the submucous portions of the vocal cords, and close incorporation with their fibres, are especially apt to destroy the powers of vocalization. A growth may be so situated as to come between the vocal cords during phonation (or respiration), and cause aphonia by preventing their approximation, or dyspnoea by occlud- ing the glottis. Growths situated away from the region of the glottis or vocal cords may give rise to few or no symp- toms, except a slight degree of chronic laryngitis. Small growths situated below the vocal cords may escape detec- tion by an inexperienced laryngoscopist. The detection of laryngeal growths in young children is not always easy. Difficulty of breathing (sometimes markedly stridulous) and aphonia should suggest their presence, and even if a laryn- goscopic examination is impossible, it is not difficult to introduce the finger into the larynx, and gently detach a portion of the growth with the finger-nail. By removal of a piece no larger than a pin’s head in this manner, we have