24 Studies in Pathological Anatomy. situated on the anterior edge of the free half of the left vocal cord, and of grey colour, thought to be a cyst, which was, however, disproved through incision. After removal, microscopical examination showed that “ the polyp was covered by the normal epithelium of the vocal cords, presenting small papillae, under which was tissue of the mucous type, studded with a large number of corpuscles, set at liberty by the rupture of vessels ” (.Schwartz, p. 31).. King described “ a large myxoma of the larynx, in which a microscopic examination was made.” Massei states (“Tumours of the Larynx,” Naples, 1885) that he has seen myxomata twice in 200 casesj of polypi. The cases of Bruns, Wagner, Eeman, King (?) appear to be the only ones recorded of undoubted pure myxomata. It is not uncommon to meet with polypi of mixed structure ; the majority of these growths are fibro-myxomata, sometimes though more rarely angio-myxomata (Schwartz), and occa- sionally all three kinds are mixed in the same polypus, as in the drawing given, from a case operated upon by Dr. J. W, Bond (Plate VI., Fig. 2). In some of these cases of myxoma the tumour has been spontaneously detached after violent paroxysms of coughing. V. ANGIOMA. Purely vascular or angiomatous tumours are of great rarity in the larynx. Only twelve such cases are recorded.1 An illustration is given of the microscopical appearances of one of these tumours (operated upon and section cut by Dr. Percy Kidd). Transitional forms of vascular cysts (Johnson, Fournier, &c.), or vascular papilloma (Ariza, Hooper, &c.) have been met with ; but these are not true angiomatous growths. Such growths, when occurring in connection with the larynx, are intra-laryng’eal (in which case they arise from the vocal cords, ventricular bands, or ventricle), or extra-laryngeal, in which case they spring from the epiglottis or hyoid fossa. Occasionally 1 Vide Wolfenden : “Angiomata of the Larynx.” Journal of Laryngology, August, 1888.