8 Studies in Pathological Anatomy. entirety. It not unfrequently happens that small particles are detached and coughed up. On the ground that operative interference may tend to con- vert an innocent into a malignant growth by irritation, it has been proposed by some laryngologists (Lennox-Browne, &c.) to abandon the employment of endolaryngeal instrumental treatment unless life is endangered. It has been thought that the performance of tracheotomy, by giving physiological rest to the larynx, will diminish or even cause the disappear- ance of the growths. The method is frequently adopted in children, both because it is sometimes impossible to operate upon them without preliminary tracheotomy, and also in order to allow time for the larynx to develope, until a period at which removal of the growths will be easier. Virchow maintained that papillary growths were very prone to degeneration into sarcomatous, cancerous, cartilaginous, or cystic formations. The question whether benign growths ever degenerate into malignant will be discussed later. I. PAPILLOMATA. Structure of normal laryngeal mucous membrane. Researches upon the structure of the normal laryngeal mucous membrane (Coyne, Klein, Verson, and others) have shown that the mucous membrane projects into the epithe- lium as papillae on both surfaces of the epiglottis, and upon both surfaces of the vocal cords, and upon a limited sur- face of the aryepiglottic folds—-viz., the folds produced by the cartilagines corniculatae (Verson). These papillae are largest upon the vocal cords. The epithelium covering the posterior surface of the epiglottis is stratified pavement epithelium. The same variety of epithelium covers the margin of the ventricular bands, the inner surface of the arytenoid cartilages, and the vocal cords. In other regions the epithelial covering is ciliated. These facts have an important bearing upon the question of the points of origin of papillomata. When these are isolated it is rare to find them springing from any other region than the vocal cords, and chiefly from their anterior and middle portions, or the anterior commissure. They rarely occur on other regions, but they may be disseminated