26 Studies in Pathological Anatomy. Anatomy. They vary greatly in structure. Some which might be placed under this heading are merely exostoses, others are masses of cartilage, as a rule not larger than a pea, ossified or not in parts, or with foci of softening. In one case recorded, the cartilaginous tissue was mixed with sarcoma- tous, forming a chondro-sarcoma ; and in a few, fibrous and myxomatous tissue has been noticed (Porter, Caselli). VIII. LYMPHOMA. Lymphoma of the larynx is a very rare growth in that situation. In the works on pathological anatomy no men- tion is made of its occurrence. Plate V. was drawn from sections made from pieces of a growth removed by one of us. The case was that of a woman, aged forty-three, who for seventeen years had suffered from hoarseness, with occasional complete loss of voice on catching cold. At various inter- vals pieces of the growth had been removed, but the tumour was never completely eradicated. At the present time (July, 1888) it presents a cauliflower mass of a rosy-red hue, springing from both sides of the larynx above the cords, which are hidden, except on the right side in front. The patient does not suffer much inconvenience, except from the hoarseness. Occasionally, she says, she feels something loose in the throat; she then coughs violently until she brings up a little pellet of the tumour. This greatly relieves her. She has no cough, and is well bodily. None of the superficial glands are enlarged, and she has no symptoms of enlargement of any of the deep glands. The structure of the growth, as will be seen by reference to Plate V., is that of a simple lymphoma. It is composed almost solely of lymphoid tissue—that is, a slender structure- less stroma, with round cells resembling leucocytes, packed in the meshes (Fig. 1). In parts this lymphoid tissue is more dense, and is collected in roundish masses as in r. Fig. 2. The resemblance of these masses to the dense col- lections of lymphoid tissue which occur in various parts of the body, such as the tonsils and solitary glands of the intestine, is well marked. In parts of the tumour there are