Hardening. Staining. io Studies in Pathological Anatomy. Methods of Examination. The mode of examination of growths in the larynx is extremely important, as unless carefully performed, erro- neous conclusions might be arrived at. This applies to those growths, portions of which are removed during life, and of the nature of which it is requisite to have precise knowledge, both for the purposes of treatment and of prognosis. The portions of tumour removed by the forceps or other instrument should be placed directly into absolute alcohol to harden ; the hardening process is accomplished in an hour or two, or in twenty-four hours, according to the size of the tumour removed. With the tumour are often brought away shreds of epithelium and mucus. The best staining liquid is borax-carmine,1 the composi- tion of which is as follows:—4 grammes of borax and 3 grammes of carmine in 100 cubic centimetres of warm water; after solution 100 cubic centimetres of alcohol (70 per cent.) is added, and the mixture filtered. The tumour (or a part of it, if it is larger than a bean) is placed in this liquid for twenty-four hours, at the temperature of a warm room; it is then allowed to soak for ten to fifteen minutes in acid-alcohol (methylated spirit, 100 cubic centi- metres, strong hydrochloric acid 5 drops). It is then trans- ferred to absolute alcohol, in which it ought to remain for fifteen to thirty minutes; but it may remain much longer, and it is advisable, if many tumours are to be examined, to stain them together and preserve them in absolute alcohol until there is an opportunity for sectionizing them. From the abso- lute alcohol, the stained mass is transferred to oil of cloves to clarify it, and it must not be left in this too long, as the oil tends to distort and shrivel it. A few hours is sufficient to clarify a piece of tumour the size of a pea. From the oil of cloves it is transferred to oil of turpentine, and then to melted paraffin, in which the mass is to be kept at a tem- perature just sufficient to melt the paraffin, for two to five 1 The solution may be purchased ready made from dealers in microscopic reagents.