21 Studies in Pathological Anatomy. zone (d, e,f), forming the investment of the cyst, and com- posed of two epithelial layers, one coloured red strongly by picrocarmine, and formed of cells, granular and without nuclei ; the other, of polyhedral more or less flattened cells, with lengthened nuclei, and in parts showing signs of desquamation. This is identical with the most external layer of the mucosa. Some glandular alveoli were found in a state of degeneration (A), and small blood-vessels (g) with walls infiltrated with embryonic cells.” Cysts of the larynx are usually described to be retention Mode of origin, cysts, originating in occlusion of the duct of a gland. This may be caused either from inflammation (e.g., chronic or acute laryngitis) or thickening of the wall of the duct (Tobold). The secretion accumulates behind the obstruc- tion, the matter increases, the cavity enlarges, and its wall becomes formed of a thin layer of stretched mucous mem- brane. Desvernine has lately published some excellent observations upon the origin of intralaryngeal cysts. Many authors describe an ampullar dilatation of the ducts of the glands, which favours stagnation of the secretion and obliteration of the outlet with consequent cyst-formation. Desvernine’s1 very careful histological researches make it probable that his views are correct. “ The excretory ducts traverse very frequently in the supraglottic region, and constantly in the infraglottic zone, fibro-elastic struc- tures in a frequent state of energetic distension, and consequently must be compressed violently. Whilst the structures of the bands are in complete physiological in- tegrity, the obliteration is always transitory, momentary, but as soon as congestive or inflammatory derange- ments occur, of some duration and intensity, then the excretory ducts participate in the general process of hyper- nutrition, their walls become more or less thick, their elasticity is reduced or abolished, and their situation in the midst of structures actively compressing them, are all cir- cumstances which create the best adapted conditions to promote the permanent fusion of their walls.” 1 “ The Normal and Pathological Anatomy of the Vocal Bands. I. Cystic Growth. II. The Glandular Apparatus.” Havana, 1888.