12 Studies in Pathological Anatomy. to consider the epithelium, the basement membrane, and the fibrous core under separate headings. The Epithelium covers each papilla, passing into the furrows between the papillae, both primary and secondary. At the edge of the tumour it passes into the normal epi- thelium covering the part, whether of the tongue, the epi- glottis, the ventricular bands, or the vocal cords. At its junction with the normal epithelium it is often thickened (Fig. 2, Plate IV.), and this thickening may be of greater or less extent. There may be, for example, a thickening over a large extent—a pachydermatous condition—from which a few single papillae spring. This is a condition seen not uncommonly in the early stage of papilloma. The epithelium, as stated, passes in an unbroken line from one papilla to the other, and does not in any place dip down (forming finger-like projections) into the fibrous core. This is well shown in the figures in Plates I. and II. It is composed of the same layers as in the skin; below, where it rests on the basement membrane, the cells are more or less columnar in shape ; these cells are stained deeply by carmine (see Plate I.). Above this are several layers of homogeneous oval cells, each with an oval nucleus. Near the surface these cells become more and more flattened, until they form flat plates, which are cornified in the older papillae. There is relatively a greater number of oval cells in the epithelium covering the papillae than in the normal epi- thelium, but they are of the same character as in the latter. The epithelium towards the surface very often becomes vacuolated, whereby the cells are enlarged; and the cells may burst, leaving an irregular and frayed edge to the papillae. This is shown in Plate III. The vacuolation sometimes occurs in groups of cells in the width of the epithelium of a papilla, giving the appearance of a nest; careful observation, however, soon detects the change that has occurred. In sections of compound papillomata, i.e., those with numerous secondary papillae, a curious appear- ance of nests is often observed in the epithelium (Fig. 3, Plate IV.) These “nests" are seen in some parts as simple