Cooking Poultry.—Tries sing Boiled Fowl. 163 10. We pull this outside skin and turn it neatly inside the fowl over the joints of the legs. 11. We turn the fowl on its breast, and draw tightly the breast skin over the incision on to the back of the neck. 12. We cross the ends of the wings over the back of the neck. 13. We now turn the fowl on its back with the neck towards us. 14. We take a trussing needle and thread it with fine twine. 15. We take the threaded trussing needle, and pass it through the bottom of one thigh, through the body, and out on the other side through the other thigh. 16. We must now turn the fowl on its breast, and take the threaded trussing needle again, and pass it through the middle of the pinion or wing, through the little bone, called the sidesman or stepmother’s wing, catching up the skin which folds over the incision, and out through the other little bone and wing. 17. We must pull this twine very tightly and tie it as firmly as possible at the side of the fowl. 18. We turn the fowl over on its back, keeping the neck still towards us. 19. We put our finger in the incision (made for drawing the fowl), and lift up the end of the breast bone. 20. We take the threaded trussing needle and pass it through the skin over the bottom of the breast bone, over one leg, back through the body close to the back bone, and tie it firmly over the other leg at the side. 21. We take a piece of kitchen paper and butter it well. 22. We take this piece of buttered paper and wrap it well round the fowl. 23. We take a large saucepan half full of hot second white stock or zuater, and put it on the fire. N.B.—The reason why second white stock should be used is that the good- ness which comes from the fowl after boiling adds to the goodness of this stock, which can afterwards be used for soup. N. B.—If hot water be used, the goodness which comes from the foWl after boiling is only wasted, as it is not of sufficient strength to make the Large quantity of water of any use.