24 National Training School for Cookery. FRYING. And Lessons on Clarifying Butter, Fat, and Dripping. The principles of frying. 1. We must have a clear bright fire. N.B. We must be very careful it is not smoky. 2. We should be careful that the utensil used is very dean, for if there is anything sticking at the bottom of the pan, it will quickly catch or burn, and so spoil the contents. 3. We should clarify all fat (not larch), dripping; and butter, before using them, to remove the impurities from the former, and the butter-milk, and other watery sub- stance, from the latter. N.B.—Fat need not be clarified more than once. After using it we should always pour it off carefully in a basin, and when it is cold we should remove the sediment from the bottom of the cake of fat. Butter must be clarified each time it is used, to remove all watery substances. 4. We must have the fat very hot; good frying depends on the fat being properly heated. 5. We should test the heat of the fat by a frimometer, if possible; the heat should rise to 345 degrees Fahrenheit for ordinary frying, and 400 degrees for whitebait. N.B.—If there be no frimometer, the heat of the fat may be tested by the look—as fat gets quite still and begins to smoke when it is very hot—or by throwing in a small piece of crumb of bread, and if it fries directly a light brown, the fat is ready for use. 6. We should use a deep pan with plenty of fat, so that anything put in may be entirely covered. 7. We can fry bacon in its own fat, it only requires watching and turning till it is done (see Lesson on “ Liver and Bacon,” from Note 1 to Note 5). 8. We can fry chops or steaks, or slices of meat, in either an oz. of clarified dripping or butter. 9. We should melt the fat first, but it does not require to be heated. 10. We must be watchful, when the meat is frying, not to allow it to burn; we should turn it over occasionally. N.B.—If there be a gridiron it is much better to grill chops and steaks, as it prevents their being greasy (see Lesson on a “Grilled Steak’’). For frying Fish, see “ Fish,” Lessons Nos. 3, 6, 7, and 13. For frying Meat, Rissoles, Potatoes, &c., see “Cooked Meat,” Lessons Nos. 2 and 6; “ Australian Meat,” Lesson No. 4; “ Entrees,”" Lessons Nos. 4 and n : and “ Vegetables,” Lessons Nos. 3 and 4.