National Training School for Cookery. 457 Students in training are expected to attend an Evening Class held by a Staff Teacher once a week. A Student in training for 20 weeks for a Teacher first passes through the Scullery and Demonstration Classes for four weeks. She then spends four weeks learning in the Plain Cookery Practice Kitchen, and a fortnight teaching. She next goes into the Hi^h Class Practice Kitchen, and spends four weeks learning, and a fortnight teaching. The last month is devoted to Practice in Demonstrating in public, for which the Lady Superintendent has drawn up careful and full rules; these are hung up close to where the Student stands to give her demonstration. ? During her course of training at the School, the Student can, if she likes, dine with the other Pupils for 6d. or ij-. When the Staff Teachers are all employed, a few extra teachers are taken on as improvers, at^i a week, as this fits them to fill good appointments in the Provinces, when they offer. These engagements are terminable by a week’s notice on either side, but employment is not compulsory nor is it guaranteed. The work of Teachers on the Staff varies somewhat according to the nature of their appointment. If employed in the School itself she will have to be in her kitchen by 9.30 a.m. to see that her kitchen-maid has everything in proper order for the Pupils to begin work at 10 a.m.; the Teacher would in most cases be able to leave the School at 5 p.m. If a Staff Teacher be sent to the Provinces the hours of work in that case depend greatly upon the Local Committee, who for the time being employ her, but the number of hours of work are limited to 24 in the week, to be distributed by arrangement with the Local Committee and the Teacher. Students will be admitted either by payment of fees, or by sub- scribers’ votes. If by votes, the Candidate must not be under 18 or exceed 35 years of age. She must be sufficiently educated to be able to perform the duties&of an instructor after the special training in Cookery. The diplomas of Teachers are of two classes. A Candidate is to understand that she will be required to be proficient in Pronunciation, Enunciation, Common Arithmetic, and Writing and Spelling correctly, which proficiency will be tested at the final examin- ation ; and no diploma can be given unless she possesses these qualifi- cations in addition to the knowledge requisite fora Teach'er of Cookery itself.