354 National Trailing School for Cookery. 31. We place the jelly bag stand in front of the fire, and hang the jelly bag in it, we must put a basin on the stand underneath the jelly bag. N.B.—We must be sure that the jelly lag is quite clean. 32. We take a jug of warm water, and pour it through the jelly bag. 33. We must do this four or five times, always using warm water until the bag is quite warm. 34. We must look at the jelly in the stew-pan, and when the crust is formed, it is ready to be strained. N.B.—We must be sure that there is no water left in the bag, before passing the jelly through, and the basin in the stand should be quite dry. N.B.—The pouring of the jelly into the bag forces the water (the few drops that remain) first out into the basin ; these first few drops should be thrown away and a clean basin put in its place immediately. 35. We now take the stew-pan off the fire, and pour the jelly carefully into the bag to pass into the basin. 36. We repeat this two or three times, until the jelly runs through quite clear. N.B.—We must be careful in pouring the jelly through the bag, that we do not disturb the sediment at the bottom of the bag, which will serve as a filter. 37. Weadda wineglassful ofsherry, an d half a wineglassfiu of brandy, or any other wine or liqueur according to taste. 38. We take a quart mould’ scald it with boiling water, and then rinse it in cold water. 39. We place the mould in ice. N.B.—We must be careful that the mould stands quite straight and firm. 40. We pour in enough of the jelly just to cover the bottom of the mould. 41. When this jelly has set slightly, we can garnish the mould with grapes, strawberries, &c., according to taste. 42. We then pour the remainder of the jelly into the mould, and let it stand in the ice, until it is firmly set. 43. When the jelly is required for use, we dip the mould into a basin of hot water for about a second. 44. We shake the mould to loosen the jelly, place a dish over the top of the mould, and turn the jelly carefully out, so as not to break it. It is then ready for serving.