LONDON : CHAPMAN AND HALL, Limited. NINTH THOUSAND. BREAKFAST AND SAVOURY DISHES. By R. O. C., Compiler of the “ Official Handbook for the National Training School for Cookery.” Crown 8vo, Is. From “THE TIMES.” “The success which has attended the publication of the * Official Handbook of the National Training School for Cookery ’—a collection of recipes, indeed, rather than a handbook in the accepted sense of the title—has encouraged the compiler, R. O. C., to issue a shilling pamphlet entitled ‘ Breakfast and Savoury Dishes,’ for the prepar- ation of which forty-three recipes have been drawn up with careful detail. Loose phraseology of the old cookery books, such as take a ‘ little ’ or a ‘ pinch ’ora' spoon- ful,’ and so forth, is discarded, and precise terms and quantities are used instead. At the head of each recipe the quantity of ingredients required for carrying out the recipe, and the cost thereof, are given. Of the forty-three recipes three are allotted to the preparation of potables in ordinary use at the British breakfast-table. A warn- ing note is sounded against allowing tea to stand longer than five minutes, after which the decoction becomes charged with an unwholesome amount of tannin. Deliberate operations are insisted upon for the making of good coffee, and the use and re-use of cocoa-nibs are expounded. Then follow ten methods of making breads, scones, galettes, muffins, crumpets, oat-cakes, short-bread, milk-rolls, and Yorkshire tea-cakes. Somersetshire girdle (or gridiron) cake might very well have been added to this list. A daintier and not more costly way of cooking oeufs au beurre noir is by treating each egg separately, and serving it in a little pipkin or cocote ; and a few more than three recipes for various savoury omelettes might have been given in place of those for potted meats, which do not recommend themselves to small households while endless tins of potted meats are procurable at any grocer’s. Then useful recipes for cooking fish—including a succulent arrangement of lobster au gratin (at a cost of 3s. 9d.)— follow next; and the series concludes with recipes for grilled and devilled chicken or turkey, and for pigeon pie, in the completion of which the necessity of following the sound practice of pouring flavoursome gravy through the hole in the crust of the baked pie is enforced. “This little book, as will be seen, is intended for the ready and managing house- keeper. But a Vatel may not find many of its suggestions beneath his notice.” THE ROYAL CONFECTIONER: English and Foreign. A Practical Treatise. By C. E. FRANC ATELLL With numerous Illustrations. Sixth Thousand. Crown 8vo, 5s. BREAKFASTS, LUNCHEONS, AND BALL SUPPERS. By Major L . Crown 8vo, 4s. SEVENTH THOUSAND. HOW TO COOK FISH. A Series of Lessons in Cookery, from the Official Handbook to the National Training School for Cookery, South Kensington. Compiled by “ R. 0. C.” Crown 8vo, sewed, 3<i. THIRD THOUSAND. SICK-ROOM COOKERY. From the Official Handbook to the National School for Cookery, South Kensington. Compiled by “ R. 0. C.” Crown 8vo, sewed, Qd. THE KINGSWOOD COOKERY BOOK. By H. F. WICKEN. Crown 8vo, 2s.