45 B National Training School for Cookery. The conditions of admission are— (a) That the Student agrees to obey all the Rules of the School laid down by the Executive Committee. (th) That for any infraction of the Rules, the Student may be discharged at a day’s notice, without having a claim of any kind upon the School. (c) That it be clearly understood that the Committee are not responsible for finding any paid employment for the Students while in the School or afterwards, the employment of Teachers, certified by the School, resting wholly with the public. At the end of the Pupil’s course of training in the School, she will be expected, before receiving any diploma, to pass a Theoretical Examination; specimens of the questions which have been asked can be obtained in the School from the Secre- tary for id. The whole fee of T21 when the Candidate has no vote, or so much of the fee as remains due when she has any votes, to be paid in three equal instalments, each in advance. The course of instruction is as follows— Practice in scullery work and cleaning, and practice in teaching the same. The best way of lighting and managing a fire, of cleaning a fire-place, regulating flues, the management of the oven, etc., or of patent fire- places in general use for cooking, the difference between a close range and an open one, etc. The proper and highest degree of cleanliness to be obtained in pots and pans, the best method of cleaning such articles, of removing stains from enamel, burnishing copper, etc. Practice in Plain Cookery and teaching the same. Practice in High Class Cookery and teaching the same. Teaching both kinds of Cookery by Public Demonstration. N.B.—Any person may attend the Cookery Classes, and Demonstrations at ‘ the usual Fees without passing any Examination. Teachers, while on the Staff, and employed in the School, are not free to take any engagement without leave of the Committee in writing ; when their services are not required, they will receive one month’s notice. Teachers holding diplomas not on the Staff are free to make any engagement for teaching they may think fit, and may refer to the Lady Superintendent, who will give additional information as to their qualifications when requested to do so. INSTRUCTION BY DEMONSTRATION AND PRACTICE FOR LEARNERS. Courses of Teaching by Demonstration, and Courses of Practice in Cookery and Cleaning are now being regularly held at the National Training School of Cookery, Exhibition Road, South Kensington. Persons desirous of joining the Courses should apply personally, or by letter enclosing 3 stamps to the Lady Superintendent, at the School. Pupils can enter for the Courses on any Monday.