National Training School for Cookery. 465 RULES FOR THE GUIDANCE of LOCAL COMMITTEES AND TEACHERS SENT BY SOUTH KENSINGTON 1. The hours of teaching are limited to twenty-four in a week when held in the same town, but when held in different localities the hours of Lessons are limited to 20, to be distributed by arrangement between the Local Committee and the Teacher. 2. The Teacher is to be provided with a Kitchen-maid, who is to be her servant, and for whose work the Teacher is responsible. 3. The Teacher’s time (within the above limits) and services are to be at the disposal of the Local Committee, and any cause of complaint on either side should be referred to the Lady Superintendent. No private Lessons are to be given by the Teacher. 4. The Teacher will give in writing her orders for materials, and some of the Local Committee are expected to sign these orders and see that they are executed, the Teacher’s responsibility ceasing when these orders are given. 5. No testimonials or gratuities, monetary or otherwise, are to be received by Teachers, nor any commission or bonus, either directly or indirectly, from Tradesmen or Committees. 6. The Teacher is to reside within reasonable distance of her place of work, and not to make any charges for travelling, except when sent out in the service of the Local Committee. 7. The Teacher is to order nothing except on forms authorised or counter- signed by the Committee or their representative. 8. To prevent confusion, the Teachers are to cook by the recipes printed and provided by the National Training School for Cookery. 9. Courses of systematic Lessons have been prepared for the Teachers ; these, modified to suit the requirements of particular localities, are recom- mended as models for Local Committees. 10. The number of Pupils at a Demonstration Lesson is practically unlimited ; the number of Pupils at a Practice Lesson is limited to ten. 11. The sale of the dishes cooked should be under the management of the Local Committee. 12. It must be always borne in mind that the sale of food and the taking of orders for dishes must be subordinate to the great object of the School, i.e., the giving a thorough and efficient practical Lesson. 13. The Teacher is allowed Second Class Railway Fare, and the actual expenses incurred in the journey upon her certifying to them. 14. The Teacher to be allowed her dinner at the Local School, on the days when she teaches there. For further particulars, apply to the Lady Superintendent at the School. G G