THE LIVER 738 very dangerous, and as there is no special tendency to become malig- nant, tliese tumours are best left alone unless there is some distinct indication for removal. MALIGNANT TUMOURS Of the malignant tumours, the only important variety fi-om an operative point of view is that which arises as an extension from malignant disease of the gall-bladder {see p. 760). Primary carcinoma and sarcoma of the liver, though rare, are important, because they may occur in the form of massive growth which may degenerate and simulate a cyst, an abscess, or a gumma. The right lobe is usually the one affected, the growth form- ing a single large tumour. Sarcoma is even rarer than carcinoma. Secondary carcinoma and sarcoma are more common, and the growths are generally multiple and of various sizes. Treatment.—When the diagnosis of secondary malignant disease is established, operative interference is out of the question, but explo- ration is certainly justified with a doubtful localized tumour, for many inflammatory conditions are indistinguishable from new growth. If, as is usual, radical operation is not feasible, the patient should be given the chance that a course of iodide and mercury may offer. CYSTS Simple single cysts are rarely found. Though usually small, they may attain the size of a child's head. They are, as a rule, situated near the free margin of the liver, and have been found in connexion with the round ligament. Cystadenomas and multiple cystic disease also rarely occur. Hydatids These cysts occur in the liver more frequently than in all other situations put together (63'4 per cent.). The disease manifests itself between the ages of 20 and 40, but, though uncommon, cases do occur in cliildren, usually from 8 to 10 years of age. Pathology; morbid anatomy.—The tumour is usually situated in the right lobe, either deeply embedded or pointing towards the upper surface. The cyst may be single ; there may be two of about the same size ; or numbers of small cysts may be present (the multilocular variety). The true cyst is composed of two layers, an outer, wliitish, firm cuticle, and an inner cellular layer from which the scolices develop. These are surrounded by a fibrous capsule formed by an alteration of the adjoining parts. The scolices possess suckers and booklets, and, though at first attached to the capsule, later float free in the cyst