I074 THE OVARY cysts. The cyst-adenomas not infrequently contain solid masses having the structure of spheroidal- or columnar - celled carcinoma. Squamous-celled carcinoma has been recorded arising from the skin- covered surface of a dermoid cyst, whilst the cystic embryoma may become malignant in virtue of any or all of the tissues contained in it. Thus, chorion-epithelioma and various forms of carcinoma and sarcoma may all arise in it, or the whole cyst may assume malig- nancy, the metastases presenting the same multiform characters as the primary growth. A peculiar form of colloidal growth arises in some multilocular cysts. The growth perforates the cyst wall and, becoming grafted on the peritoneum, produces enormous quantities of material like painter's size, which gradually distends the peritoneal cavity. Evacuation of the contents is followed by reaccumulation, and cases are on record where this procedure has been repeated over several years. The basis of the growth is a colloid tissue containing few cells. Sarcoma of varying types may originate in a cyst wall. Secondary deposits of carcinoma in the ovary are very common, and are often partially cystic owing to the inclusion of distended follicles in the growth. They are nearly always bilateral, and are usually secondary to malignant disease of the intestine or gall-bladder. Symptoms.—The symptoms of ovarian cysts may be divided into those due to (1) bulk, (2) pressure, (3) torsion, (4) inflammation, (5) rupture, (6) malignant degeneration. Bulk.—The rate of growth of an ovarian cyst varies. Dermoids may grow very slowly. Cyst-adenomas attain a fair size in two years. Malignant cysts may reach a great bulk in a few months; while cer- tain accidental occurrences such as torsion or inflammation produce very rapid increase in size. Cysts weighing over 100 lb. have not infrequently been recorded. In the absence of complications, ovarian cysts do not at first afiect the general health, but later the increasing enlargement of the abdomen is accompanied by the so-called " ovarian cachexia," characterized by extreme emaciation and an earthy or definitely pigmented colour of the sldn. Pressure—Impaction in the pelvis may occur, with retention of urine, partial intestinal obstruction, and great pain ; but this is a much less common event than with myomas. Enormous tumours interfere with respiration and the intestinal functions, and may produce signs due to pressure on the vena cava. Torsion.—Torsion of the pedicle is the commonest complication of an ovarian cyst. It may follow a violent effort or the emptying of a pregnant uterus, but often no cause is apparent. The first twist is usually small, but sufficient to obstruct the venous return through