INTUSSUSCEPTION IN CHILDREN 49i operating diminishes the prospect of recovery. An incision is made over the most prominent part of the swelUng, which is usually either in the line of the ascending colon, or in the vicinity of the umbilicus. The opening should be large enough to admit of ready access to the invaginated segment of bowel, so tha,t it may be brought to the surface with as little handling as possible. In carrying out reduction of the invagination, the tumour should be straightened out as far as possible, after which pressure is made on the intussusceptum by compressing the sheath just beyond the apex. On no account should the entering loop be pulled upon, as this involves considerable risk of tearing the bowel. As a rule, in early cases reduction is easily effected in this way ; but the last part may be difficult to reduce on account of the apex having become cedematous, in which case, to diminish the oedema, it should be gently scjueezed for a few minutes through a pad of moist gauze. When the invagination has lasted for some considerable time, reduction may be prevented by adhesions between the apposed serous surfaces of the entering and returning tubes, or by swelling of the mesentery. After reduction has been effected, the whole length of bowel implicated should be examined for evidence of threatening gangrene or of damage to the peritoneal coat. If there is any doubt as to the viability of the gut, it should be brought out and an artificial anus established. To diminish the risk of recurrence, a longitudinal tuck or fold may be made in the mesentery of the ileum, or the mesentery may be stitched to the ascending mesocolon. If it is impossible to effect complete reduction, or if, when reduced, the bowel is found to be gangrenous, the affected segment must be excised. By a continuous suture, the sheath and the intussusceptum are united at the neck of the intussusception ; the sheath is then in- cised longitudinally, and the intussusceptum removed ; and the opera- tion is completed by closing the opening in the sheath, or by stitching its edges to the parietal peritoneum, and so forming an artificial anus. If the sheath is gangrenous, the whole of the segment of bowel implicated must be resected. The mortality after all forms of resection, whether with or without the formation of an artificial anus, is very high. Chronic Intussusception in the Child This is usually of the ileo-csecal variety, and the condition may run a very slow course, associated with attacks of colicky pain, irregularity of the bowels, and the passage of blood in the stools. Visible peri- stalsis can sometimes be observed, particularly after a meal, and in some cases a tumour can be recognized on palpation. This tumour