590 HERNIA made in the sedentary form of convenience, it can only be done by lowering the head to the level of the knees, a dangerous position for old people when maldng any expulsive effort. Both for young and old the sedentary posture is a bad one and favours the occurrence of hernia at the groins. Congenital theory of hernia.—The production of a hernial sac in later life by alterations in pressure alone has been questioned from time to time, and especially by Hamilton Eussell, who be- lieves that " acquired oblique inguinal hernia in the young subject has probably no existence in fact." He maintains that, with the possible exception of some cases of direct inguinal hernia, all hernias, whether inguinal or femoral (and probably ischiatic and obturator as well), are the result of the presence of congenitally formed sacs, and are not acquired. The grounds on which the belief is founded are (1) the results of post-mortem examinations ; (2) the examina- tion of sacs removed by operation ; (3) the results of operations in which simple removal of the sac constituted the entire procedure ; (4) the accidental discovery during operation of preformed peritoneal diverticula which had never been occupied by a hernia. I have found, in a woman of 47, both inguinal and both femoral canals patent and occupied by such diverticula, none of wliich had ever contained a hernia.^ (5) The sudden descent of hernias in adults into sacs having the anatomical characters of acquired, but the liistological characters of congenital, sacs ; (6) the curious disposition of certain femoral sacs along the branches of the femoral artery ; (7) the association of hernial sacs with other congenital anomalies, such as hypospadias, ectopia vesicae, congenital dislocation of the hip, and talipes. Russell believes that inguinal sacs are simply diverticula from the original processus vaginalis, while the sacs found in cases of femoral hernia, etc., are prolongations of the peritoneal lining of the abdomen, which are drawn out along the course of the branches of the femoral artery during the development of the embryonic limb-buds. There is much to be said for the congenital theory of hernia, with wliich I am myself in sympathy, but space does not permit of a full discussion of this subject. Clinical characters of hernia.—The contents of her- nias, of whatever variety, are in nearly every case, in their earliest stages, capable of being returned into the abdominal cavity by slight pressure, and often disappear spontaneously on the patient lying down. Such hernias are known by the term reducible. Even the sac in rare cases, especially in children, can for a period be reduced, but later, becoming adherent to its surroundings, it remains in situ, the contents ' Since this was written the patient has developed an inguinal hernia of the right side.