THE TONGUE I70 the finger should be introduced into the mouth and the tongue hooked forward. The condition is hkely to recur ; but the constant sucking of a teat will help to prevent it. INJURIES WOUNDS Injuries to the tongue, rarely the cause of serious hsemorrhage, are usually penetrating wounds produced by foreign bodies such as pipe- stems and fish-bones, but are specially important in that an abscess of the tongue may follow and the foreign body may be retained in the tongue substance. Many instances are recorded where pipe-stems or teeth have been removed from the tongue some time after an accident, comparatively few symptoms having arisen during the interval. Occasionally, severe or even fatal haemorrhage may occur, as in the case published by Bransby Cooper, where the pipe-stem penetrated through the tongue into the carotid artery, and the patient, a sailor, died from bleeding. The tongue may be severely bitten in the convulsions of epilepsy, eclampsia, or tetanus, or as the result of blows or falls on the chin, and the bleeding may be serious. In ordinary circumstances the tongue is rarely severely bitten during mastication, but if the 5th nerve is paralysed considerable damage may be done. Treatment.—The cliief indications in treatment are—first, to control any haemorrhage ; and second, to make certain that no foreign body is left behind in the muscular substance. When the tongue is bitten it is usually the anterior part that suffers, a part easily accessible and amenable to simple treatment. On the other hand, in punctured wounds the lesion may be far back; and if, as Butlin points out, there be free arterial hsemorrhage owing to the fact that the vessels lie deeply, there will be a deep wound in which a foreign body may be hidden, and in which it may be very difficult indeed to secure the bleeding-point. For the temporary arrest of severe hsemorrhage the manoeuvre recommended by Heath should be adopted. The forefinger is passed to the back of the tongue, and the whole organ is hooked forward with the hyoid bone, the lingual arteries being thus put on the stretch. In the slighter forms, where the haemorrhage is mainly venous, it will be sufiicient to approximate the edges of the wound with catgut or black silk ; the stitches should not be tied too tightly, as the tissues swell up considerably, but they must arrest the bleeding. In severe haemorrhage an anaesthetic must be given ; the mouth should be widely opened, the tongue drawn out by two stitches passed through it near the tip, the wound enlarged if necessary, and a search