THE INTESTINES As development proceeds, the primitive canal becomes greatly elongated, and the mid-gut is differentiated into the large and small intestines, the junction being indicated by an outgrowth which even- tually forms the csecum. Concurrently with the elongation of the tube and the development of its mesentery, which carries the superior mesenteric artery, there is a rotation of the mid-gut, which brings the large intestine across the duodenum, and the csecum to the right side just below the hver. From this position it gradually descends to the right ihac fossa. The small intestine goes on increasing in length, and is thrown into the comphcated series of coUs characteristic of the adult bowel. CONGENITAL CONSTRICTIONS AND OCCLUSIONS The small intestine may be narrowed or occluded in a variety of ways. At the junction of the fore- and mid-guts, for example, the canal may be interrupted by a septum, or by an annular constriction, probably due to faulty development of the embryonic buds in which the liver and pancreas arise (Bland-Sutton). A complete segment of the bowel—^jejunum or terminal portion of ileum—may be absent, together with a U-shaped portion of the mesentery ; sometimes there are multiple defects. Among the other congenital lesions of the jejunum and ileum that have been met with are septa, locahzed strictures, and adhesions from foetal peritonitis. The segment above the obstruction is dilated and elongated, that below is contracted. Congenital defects in the colon are usually met with at the various flexures, where portions may be absent or septa may occlude the lumen. DIVERTICULA Congenital diverticula are occasionally met with in the region of the duodenum, and in a certain proportion of cases masses of pan- creatic tissue are foimd at the fundus of the pouch. In the small intestine acquired diverticida are not common. They are usually multiple, varying in size from a pea to a hen's egg, and are found on the mesenteric edge of the bowel, particularly towards the lower end of the ileum. They consist of pouches of mucous membrane protruded through the muscular coat along the line of the small vessels that enter and leave the submucous tissue, and they push themselves between the layers of the mesentery. These diver- ticula are probably due to increased intra-intestinal pressure and irregular tonic contraction of the bowel. A case has been recorded by Alexis Thomson in which a locahzed focus of tuberculosis weakened the wall and admitted of the formation of a diverticulum; and another in which an accessory pancreas was present at the apex of the diverticulum. (Plate 92.)