FISTULA AND SINUS 687- The ultra-acute pelvi-rectal infection frequently terminates in acute^ peritonitis or gangrenous cellulitis. The more subacute or chronic cases present the symptoms of pelvic cellulitis ; unless rectal disease is known to exist, the cause may be entirely overlooked. Rectal:' examination may demonstrate a unilateral fullness above the level of the internal sphincter muscle. Pus may escape into the bowel with relief of symptoms, but drainage will probably be imperfect and the abscess reaccumulate. Sometimes the pus may track through the levator ani, or posteriorly through the median raphe, to the ischio- rectal fossa, and eventually reach the surface through one or more openings. In other cases the pus may track to the iliac or lumbar- regions, or even tlirough the sacro-sciatic foramen to the buttock. Treatment is a difficult matter, and depends to some extent upon the cause. Any etiological rectal disease must be appropriately- treated. Incisions into the abscess cavity must be free, and may be necessary in the perineum or the iliac region, or both. When a pelvi- rectal abscess has burst into the ischio-rectal fossa, it is to be opened as already explained, and the aperture through the levator ani enlarged' with forceps and freely drained. 5. Labial Abscess This abscess is generally confined to the labium majus. It arises fi'om disease of the anterior part of the lower rectum or anal canal.. It is incised in a manner similar to that adopted for the ischio-rectal abscess. FISTULA AND SINUS A fistula is a suppurating track opening both on to the cutaneous surface and into the lumen of the bowel. A sinus, on the other hand, has only one opening, which may either be on to the cutaneous surface, the cutaneous sinus, or into the lumen of the bowel, the rectal sinus. Both the sinus and the fistula, when of rectal origin, are practically always preceded by one or other variety of perirectal abscess. Rarely will a foreign body, such as a fish-bone, perforate the rectal wall with- out the formation of any definite abscess, causing at first a rectali sinus and later a fistula. ElSTULA A fistula may be superficial, intermuscular, or supramuscular, according to its position in the bowel wall (Fig. 501). Superficial fistula.—The track is superficial to the externaL sphincter, or may pass between the superficial fibres of the muscle. It results fi-om a subcutaneous abscess opening both on to the surface and into the anal canal at the anal margin. The internal orifice of, tlie fistula may be seen at the base of a fissure, or as a small ulcer at,