THE BREAST 14 enlarged and hard, but they are not tender nor do they lose their mobility. The further progress of the case is that of syphilis {see Vol. I., p. 729), and the appearance of secondary symptoms clears up any doubt as to the diagnosis, if a scraping has not already revealed the presence of the Treponema pallidum (Sfirochcete pallida). Chancre of the nipple would appear to be decreasing in frequency. Owing to its rarity it is apt to escape recognition. DISEASES OF THE MAMMARY GLAND ACUTE MASTITIS Acute mastitis is usually associated with the function of lactation. This variety, therefore, will be first completely considered, and the rarer ones will be separately dealt with. The acute mastitis of lactation has for its chief predisposing cause the condition known as milk engorgement, while its exciting cause is the entrance of suppurative organisms through a crack or abrasion of the nipple (see Cracked Nipple, p. 9), or along the milk-ducts. Acute mastitis may terminate by resolution, or may end in mammary abscess. Milk engorgement.—During the earliest days of lactation the normal mammary hypersemia may become excessive. This is specially likely if the milk secreted is unable to escape. Some of the mammary ducts from long disuse may be partially blocked by epithelial debris, and in this case the signs of engorgement may be restricted to the corresponding lobe or lobes of the breast. Diffuse engorgement of both breasts is usually associated with the sudden cessation of lactation, as upon the death or weaning of the child. Unilateral engorgement commonly depends upon congenital retraction of the corresponding nipple, with consequent inability to suckle on the affected side. The breast becomes swollen, hot, tense, and painful. Irregular brandling areas of induration mark out the course of the distended milk-ducts, while the breast tissue itself takes on a coarse granular hardness. The superficial veins are prominent. The axillary glands may become tender and some- what enlarged. Headache, slight pyrexia, and constipation are fre- quently present. If a portion only of the breast is affected, the swelling has a sector-shaped outline corresponding to the shape of the affected lobe or lobes. No sharp line of demarcation can be drawn between milk engorgement and acute parenchymatous mastitis terminating in mammary abscess, the one condition passing imperceptibly into the other. It is important not to mistake mere engorgement or parenchy-