THE INTESTINES 45° Tlie appropriate operation can, as a rule, only be decided upon after the abdomen bas been opened, and the actual state of afiairs recognized. When practicable, resection of the affected segment, with anasto- mosis of the bowel above and below, is the ideal operation, but as the dilatation often extends right down to the commencement of the rectum it is not always feasible. Entero-anastomosis, or short- circuiting of the bowel—^the lower end of the ileum being anastomosed laterally with the pelvic colon—has in a few cases given relief. Colostomy affords great reUef in acute cases, and may tide the patient over till a more extensive operation can be undertaken. In many cases the relief afforded by a small colostomy opening acting as a safety-valve for the escape of flatus has added greatly to the comfort and safety of the patient. Colopexy and coloplication have not yielded encouraging results. ENTEROPTOSIS (Glenard's Disease—Splanchnoptosis—^Visceroptosis) It is only necessary here to refer to the surgical aspects of tliis affection. A fuller description of its various manifestations will be found in works on Medicine. Glenard, in 1885, first systematically described the condition, which consists in a sinking of the stomach, transverse colon, and right kidney to a lower level in the abdominal cavity than they normally occupy. Other viscera sometimes share in the prolapse. Etiology.—The displacement is probably due to a combination of causes, by which the processes of peritoneum that naturally sus- pend the viscera become relaxed or stretched. Among the factors that bring this about may be mentioned weakness and atony of the muscles of the anterior abdominal wall resulting from repeated pregnancies, or following an exhausting illness; compression of the thorax and abdomen by tight corsets ; excessive dragging on the suspensory ligaments by the weight of a dilated stomach, an over- distended colon, or a tumour; or the weight of an enlarged Uver or spleen, pushing the organs down into the lower parts of the abdomen. Clinical features.—Enteroptosis may exist to a marked degree without giving rise to any discomfort, and the severity of the symptoms is not proportionate to the degree of displacement of the viscera. As a rule, however, the patient complains of a constant sense of weight, and a dragging pain in the abdomen and loins, aggra- vated by exertion and relieved by lying down, and suffers from so- called " nervous dyspepsia," with pain and distension after taMng food, flatulence, and hyperchlorhydria. There is usually obstinate