856 THE BLADDER 2. Closure of the orifice of tlie diverticulum from within the bladder, and drainage of the diverticulum outside the bladder. 3. Drainage into the bladder.—The walls of the bladder and diverti- culum are split upwards or downwards, and the edges stitched together, so that the cavity of the diverticulum is thrown into the bladder. 4. Excision of the sac and repair of the bladder wall.—This operation is the most radical, and gives good results. Where the diverticulum lies low in the pelvis and is extensive the excision is very difficult and may be impossible. HERNIA This is rare, occurring in only 1 per cent, of hernia operations. It is more frequent in men, and in advanced life. The great majority of bladder hernias are inguinal; femoral are less common; and the obturator, sciatic, and perineal varieties are very infrequent. Etiology.—The bladder is thin-walled and distended, and the abdominal wall weak. Urethral obstruction, old age, coughing, straining, traction of an extraperitoneal lipoma, traction on the peritoneum-covered area of the bladder by a large hernia, adhesions between the bladder and the omentum and intestine, are recognized causes. Pathological anatomy There are three varieties : (1) Extra- peritoneal : The bladder is prolapsed without a hernial sac of peritoneum. (2) Intraperitoneal: The peritoneum-covered portion of the bladder is drawn into a hernial sac with bowel or omentum. (3) Paraperitoneal: A sac of peritoneum is present, and adherent to this is the bladder. The large majority are of this nature. The communication between the prolapsed portion and the bladder is temporarily narrowed, but there is no permanent constriction. Cystitis may be present, and a phosphatic stone has been known to form in the prolapsed portion. Symptoms.—A swelling is present at one of the sites of hernia, and has the following characteristics: (1) It is irreducible. (2) It is large when the bladder is distended, and small when it is emptied. (3) Pressure on the swelling causes a desire to micturate, (-t) Fluctuation may be detected. (.5) The swelling is dull on percussion. Micturition in two parts is a common symptom. There is difficulty in micturition, and sometimes complete retention, and the patient may only be able to pass water by pressing on the swelling, or in a certain posture. If a catheter is introduced it may pass into the hernia and be felt under the skin. Strangulation of a bladder hernia has occuiTed in several cases. Diagnosis.—In 67 per cent, of cases diagnosis is made at hernia operations. Injury of the bladder seldom occurs if the neck of the sac is carefully inspected during the radical cure of hernia. Treatment.—The bladder should be stripped from the hernial sac (paraperitoneal variety), or reduced with the other hernial contents (intra- peritoneal variety). If the bladder is opened during an operation it should be carefully dissected off the sac, closed, and returned to the pelvis, and a catheter tied in the urethra. The hernia operation is concluded in the usual manner. INVERSION AND PROLAPSE (URETHRAL CYSTOCELE) This condition occurs in women and female children. The whole thick- ness of the bladder wall, including the peritoneal investment, is inverted