304 THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM water at 50° C, introduced directly through gastrostomy or colos- tomy openings, gave rise to sensations of cold and warmth. We considered this showed that the sensibility of the viscera resembled protopathic sensibility elsewhere. The sensation produced was never localized inside the abdomen, but usually in the umbilical region. James Mackenzie does not accept these conclusions, and explains the feeling of cold as due to vaso-constriction in the vessels of the skin of the abdomen reflexly produced. Hertz came to the conclusion that " the oesophagus and anal canal are almost always sensitive to heat and cold, the stomach rarely if ever, and the colon to a limited extent in a very small number of cases." Whatever the explanation of the recognition of ice and hot water, most of the pain complained of in diseases of the organs with which we are dealing is reflected and not direct. Pain resulting from disease of the stomach is most often com- plained of in the epigastric region, particularly on the left side, also posteriorly at the lower angle of the left scapula. It is frequently associated with tenderness (hj^eralgesia), both superficial (cutaneous) and deep, and with increase of reflexes or muscular rigidity. Cutaneous hyperalgesia is occasionally met with. Its exact surgical significance is unknown. It is most often associated with ulcer of the stomach in women, rarely in men, and has also been observed in cases of hsemorrhagic gastritis. Usually left-sided, it may extend as a band around the body in the region of the 7th, 8th, and 9th thoracic segments, or be present only in front or behind. It is certainly absent in perforation of the stomach or duodenum. Following Head, it has been the teaching at the London Hospital that the presence of deep tenderness indicates an affection of the peri- toneum. Although deep tenderness is seen in its most exquisite form in cases of recent perforative peritonitis, marked deep tenderness is often present without peritonitis. The muscular and subserous layers of the abdominal wall are supplied from the same nerves. Head and the writer have shown that the afferent fibres running with motor nerves, when stimulated as the result of pressure, cause pain, and the painful contractions of muscles are also well Imown. I believe that deep tenderness is often " reflected " ; but in peritonitis the nerves themselves are directly affected by the inflammation of the parietal peritoneum. Stimulation of these nerves subserving deep sensibility is the cause of the widespread muscular rigidity in diffuse peritonitis. The localized rigidity which may be manifest in a segment of the rectus in many cases of stomach disease is due to increased briskness of the reflex, and does not indicate peritonitis. It is not present on gentle handling, and is associated with deep tenderness ; on the other