HERNIA 6o6 rib, and (6) anteriorly to that line and immediately above the crest of the ilium. The upper of these hernial sites is the less common of the two ; it is the position frequently occupied by a lumbar abscess, and from this it must be diagnosed, since both hernia and abscess are elastic, reducible to some extent, and give an impulse on coughing. The lower hernial site is that which is known as " Petit's triangle " ; it is bounded below by the crest of the ilium, in front by the posterior margin of the external oblique muscle, and behind by the anterior margin of the latissimus dorsi muscle. The hernia is rarely more than a shght bulging, and only when there is a distinct deficiency in the extent of origin of these muscles can the triangle be said to exist. Where hernia follows operations upon the kidneys the bulging will occupy the whole space between the ilium and the last rib. Owing to the transverse division of the muscle fibres in these operations, the difficulty of approximation, and the frequent necessity for drainage, this hernia, when it occurs, is extensive and very disabling. Of whatever variety, lumbar hernia rarely contains anything but omentum and ascending or descending colon ; the sac resembles that of other ventral hernias, being ultimately incorporated with the integuments. Operative treatment is only called for in cases of hernia of large dimensions following operations on the loins, and may then present considerable difficulty. The following four varieties of hernia are of sufficient rarity to merit being considered as pathological curiosities. 1. Obturator hernia The protrusion in this case occurs through the small obturator canal, the insignificant aperture existing at the upper and anterior part of the obturator foramen for the passage of the obturator vessels and nerve. Always of great rarity, it is commoner in women than in men, and owes its importance to its danger and the difficulty of its diagnosis. The hernial contents, which are most frequently intestinal (less commonly the colon and pelvic organs), in their passage through the canal have the obturator nerve external to and above them, and, arriving outside the pelvis, are covered by the pectineus muscle. The hernia may never go beyond this poin-t, and is very liable to immediate strangulation on its first escape. It may, however, pass on downwards, forwards, and inwards, and arrive at the space between the adductor longus and the femoral vessels. Here it may at times be felt as a rounded swelling rather deeply situated, and may be confounded with a femoral hernia ; but it is always less mobile, has no palpable neck, and occupies a position rather more internal than the latter. The diagnosis of obturator hernia is always difficult, so much so that it is not infrequently only made in the post-mortem room. Strangulation is usually the first symptom, and in the absence of any