6/8 RECTUM AND ANAL CANAL Alcohol is better avoided. Regular exercise should be taken. Under such treatment many cases are immensely relieved, as regards both bleeding and protrusion. Should bleeding still continue, an astringent application should be employed, e.g. an injection of a solution of sulphate of iron or adrenalin, a powder such as dried sulphate of iron, bismuth, or zinc, a suppository containing gallic or tannic acid, or an ointment, of which the principal ingredient may be one of the fore- going, or hamamelis. Operative treatment should be advised when palliative measures have failed. It is indicated when bleeding is continuous, when prolapse is frequent, when thore is a persistent discharge causing pruritus ani, when fissure is present, or when inflammation, sloughing or gangrene has occurred. There are four methods of operation—(1) the clamp and cautery, (2) the ligature, (3) the excision of individual piles, and (4) the Fig. 493.—Clamp for internal haemorrhoids preparatory to their cauterization. removal of a complete ring of mucosa, the so-caUed " pile-bearing area " (Whitehead's opejation). (. 1. Clamp and cautery.—It is claimed for this operation that the after-pain is less than when other methods are employed, the convales- cence is shortened, and there is no tendency to a contraction of the anal canal. Practical experience shows that, provided the cautery is used at a duU-xed heat, reactionary haemorrhage is not more frequent after this than after the other methods. The method is better not employed when external piles requiring removal are also present. It is strongly indicated where the piles are acutely inflamed, sloughing or gangrenous, for no foreign body is left in the wound. After dilatation of the sphincters, each pile is grasped at its base by a special clamp (Fig. 493), and then seared ofi by the knife of a PaqueUn cautery. The clamp is gradually relaxed, and if any bleeding is seen the clamp should be tightened and the stump again cauterized ; this is repeated imtil aU bleeding has ceased. 2. Ligature.—This is the method which has most advocates. It may be employed in any case, but is especially indicated where