SECONDARY ACUTE SIALO-ADENITIS 241 The predisposing conditions may be divided into three main classes :— i. Abnormal conditions of the oral cavity, particularly all forms of stomatitis. ii. Acute diseases, such as typhus, variola, pneumonia, typhoid, and pyaemia. Less acute disorders have also been known to cause it. In carcinoma it is not uncommon, and in a case of Klippel's it was a complication of tabes. Carr has recorded an attack of acute gangrenous parotitis, as a terminal event, in a case of granular kidney. iii. Abdominal disease. Attention was first directed to the asso- ciation of acute parotitis with abdominal disease in cases in which ovariotomy had been performed. In view of the observation that, epidemic parotitis was often followed by orchitis and oophoritis, it was at first presumed that there was some sympathetic connexion between the two sets of organs, and that one responded refliexly to disease or injury of the other. Stephen Paget collected 101 cases of parotitis following upon disease of the abdomen or pelvis ; and of these " 50 were due to injury, disease, or temporary derangement of the genital organs," a percentage which lent colour to the hypothesis. Tliis view is not generally held now. After laparotomy, as in pyrexia, the mouth is dry and there is diminished salivary secretion, so that the glands are in a state which renders them particularly liable to infection. Further investigation has shown that the abdominal cases which are most constantly followed by parotitis are those in which rectal feeding is necessary, such as gastric ulcer. In patients who are being rectally fed the mouth readily becomes septic, in spite of the most skilful care and attention, and the infection spreads up to the glands along the ducts. Secondary acute inflammation is confined almost entirely to the parotid. When it occurs after laparotomy, the swelling of the parotid begins about the end of the first week. In connexion with other diseases no definite date can be stated. The lower pole of the parotid generally enlarges first, but soon the swelling involves the whole gland, so that the side of the face is broadened and the ear is pushed out. The skin over the parotid is at first tense, but later becomes red and oedematous, with dilated veins running over the swelling. Great pain is experienced by the patient because the gland is covered by dense, unyielding fascia, and the tension of the parts is considerable. General malaise is complained of, and the temperature is always raised ; it may reach 105°. Treatment. — Sjaontaneous subsidence may begin about the fourtli day from the onset of symptoms ; but this is an unusual termination. In the majority of cases suppuration sujaervenes. It is very difficult to decide in any given case whether an abscess is. 1