PROSTATIC CALCULI 909 uretbram without other symptoms. When symptoms are present they are those of cystitis of the base of the bladder, viz. pain, diffi- culty and frequency of micturition. The symptoms arise when the calculus protrudes into the prostatic urethra either through one of the ducts or by ulceration of the mucous membrane. Hsematuria may occur, but is usually slight, and urethral discharge may be present. Suppuration may take place round the calculi and lead to formation of an abscess, which may burst into the urethra, the jjerineum, or tlie rectum. The diagnosis is made by—(1) Feeling the stones per rectum, if they are large enough. In some cases the stones may be felt to grate on one another. (2) Feeling the stones in the urethra by the passage of a sound. The grating characteristic of a calculus is always felt in the same place just as the sound enters the bladder. In some cases combined rectal and urethral examination may lead to a correct diagnosis. (3) Radiography, only a positive result being of i-- ts i. 4. -i-u i. ^■ ^ Fig. 5o/.—Prostate with prostatic calculi /// si/u. Treatment.—In cases of accidental discovery of prostatic calculi no treatment is necessary, but if symptoms are present the prostate should be incised from the perineum and all the stones removed. Calculi in the prostate may also be reached through the bladder. This viscus is opened by the suprapubic route, the prostate incised, and the stones removed. Abscesses should be treated by perineal incision, removal of the calculi, and drainage. TUBERCULOSIS As in tuberculosis of the other parts of the genito-urinary tract, tuberculosis of the prostate is most commonly seen in young adults and in those who are disposed to the disease by heredity. Chronic inflammation of the prostate due to infection by the gonococcus is another very important predisposing condition, and one on which too little stress has been laid. The disease in the prostate is frequently associated with tuberculosis of the kidney, bladder, vesiculse, and testis, and it is often difficult in a given case to distinguish the primary