THE TONGUE 228 has been introduced should be removed, and the routine treatment of the mouth undertaken. Tliis consists in frequent irrigations and swabbings with weak antiseptics, preferably weak carbolic or per- manganate of potash, alternated with a solution of bicarbonate of soda to get rid of the clinging mucus. A large irrigator fixed to the wall near the head of the bed, and fitted with a glass vaginal douche nozzle controlled by a tap or clip, allows the nurse, and afterwards the patient, to wash out the oral cavity very thoroughly ; of course, provision must be made for free exit of the fluid. The patient should be propped up in the sitting position for dressing and inspection of the mouth, which should be done in a good light, and in the less severe cases he may remain sitting up after the first twenty-four hours ; in the more severe the recumbent posture must be maintained for two or more days. Dawbarn insists on the need for keeping these patients in the Trendelenburg position until they are able to swallow, so preventing them from inhaling septic matter from the wound. This position is very uncomfortable for the patient, and, if the wound can be kept decently clean, is imnecessary ; but if the wound is foul, owing to the loss of control of the epiglottis there is a real danger of septic particles finding their way down the larynx and trachea, and the position must be maintained. Every two hours during the day, and every four during the night, the nurse on duty should gently wipe away blood and debris with a small, soft sponge moistened in antiseptic. The patient should be encouraged to irrigate his own mouth every hour during the day. Adherent blood-clot can be removed with forceps, but when sloughs appear the greatest care should be exercised in detaching them, as their removal may be followed by hsemorrhage. If the case goes well the patient should be got up in a chair on the third .day. It will often be advisable to keep the patient recumbent for a longer period, and to delay his getting up if old and enfeebled, but the special points to attend to are frequent irrigations and the pre- servation of local cleanUness as far as it is possible to obtain it. Feeding—For the first twenty-four or forty-eight horns, food should be given rectally ; after that, in many cases the patient is able to swallow, and the food is given by a feeder, to the spput of which is attached a rubber tube that can be passed well to the back of the throat. It is well to make a trial with some water first, in case the food should regurgitate and soil the wound. All food given should be carefully sterilized until healthy granu- lations have covered the raw surface. In the more severe cases the patient must be fed through nasal or oesophageal tubes until the power of swallowing is regained. Great