OPERATION FOR MAMMARY CANCER 9c removed with the deep fascia. In order to accomplish tliis, tlie linea alba must be split from below upwards in the coronal plane. It is particularly in the epigastric region that wide and careful removal of the deep fascia is most imperatively called for, so as to prevent the access of cancer cells to the peritoneal cavity. In this part of the field of operation numerous small blood-vessels emerging from the rectus muscle will probably need attention. Towards the outer side of the field of operation the fascia must be dissected up from over the anterior edge of the latissimus and from the serratus magnus. Higher up, especially if the growth lies in the outer portion of the breast, the fascia over the inner margin of the deltoid muscle and about the posterior margin of the axillary outlet must be raised if it falls within the circle marked out for removal, although tlic requisite dissection is difficult and tedious. Division of muscles.—If the growth is an early one, or is situ- ated low down in the breast, it is probably safe to leave the uppermost fibres of the pectoralis major near the margin of the deltoid muscle. With this exception the whole of the great pectoral needs removal, as Halsted first pointed out. It is split below its clavicular attach- ment ; next, a finger is inserted beneath the muscle from above, so as to put its fibres on the stretch, and its chondral and sternal attachments are rapidly divided from above downwards close to their origin. The muscle is lifted from the chest and turned out- wards, and the external anterior thoracic nerve and the vessels which run with it are divided where they pierce the costo-coracoid membrane. The pectoralis minor now comes into view, and is best removed, except in early cases. It is divided at its costal origin. The pectoral muscles are now cut across at their insertions respec- tively into the humerus and the coracoid process, and the whole mass of tissue is allowed to fall over towards the axilla. Removal of axillary contents.—The costo-coracoid membrane, now freely ex^josed, is cautiously divided just below the clavicle, and the fat at the extreme apex of the axilla is thus brought into view. It now becomes easy to reach the highest axillary glands—subclavian in the strict sense of the word—which so easily escape notice unless they are carefully looked for. The axillary vein is sought for in this situation, and is carefully cleared from above downwards. As this dissection proceeds, the subscapular vein and other axillary tributaries come into view, and are secured and divided. The subscapular nerves are exposed, isolated, and preserved. The inner and posterior walls of the axilla are cleaned from above downwards, preserving the nerve of Bell, and the mass of tissues is now retained only where the lower and outer part of the breast overlies the seriatus magnus. The digitations