MAMMARY CANCER: DISSEMINATION 55 organs are very prone and others relatively immune to secondary deposits of cancer. Thus, in pyajmia, a known embolic process, the frequency of splenic to hepatic abscess is as two to three. In breast cancer the frequency of splenic to hepatic metastases is only as one to fourteen. Again, the distribution of the secondary deposits is not the same, for instance, in cancer of the uterus as in cancer of the stomach, but varies according to the site of the primary growth. Yet embolism must be by its nature an impartial process. In- cancers which affect the skeleton the secondary deposits are frequent in certain bones and very rare in others, although all the bones must be liable to embolism. These difficulties have never been convincingly met by the advocates of the embolic theory. In most cases, cancer cells which gain access to the blood-stream appear to undergo de- struction. The details of the process, as seen in the lungs, have been demonstrated by M. B. Schmidt. The peculiarities of metastatic distribution, to be further referred to, show that blocd cml)olism is a comparatively unimportant factor in dissemination. PARIETAL AND VISCERAL DISSEMINATION The secondary deposits in breast cancer may be considered under two headings—first, those in the parietes of the thorax, abdomen, and head, or in the limbs ; second, the visceral deposits within the thorax, the abdomen, or the central nervous system. Dissemination in the parietes In certain cases, widespread deposits are found in the bones or the subcutaneous tissues, while the internal organs are free from cancer. The escape of the internal organs in such cases is very difficult to explain if the seeds of the secondary deposits are distributed by the blood-stream. Moreover, on the embolic hypothesis, subcutaneous nodules might be expected to crop up at random anywhere upon the surface of the body. This is not the case. The subcutaneous nodules wliich are so frequently seen in breast cancer always make their earliest appearance close to the primary growth. Moreover, I have shown that they spread away from the growth in a centrifugal manner, and occupy an area, roughly circular, which has for its centre the primary growth. In course of time and in exceptional cases, this circle may occupy the greater part of the surface of the body, and may spread to the limbs and head. But almost invariably the patient dies before subcutaneous deposits have made their appearance upon the distal portions of the limbs—the situation, of all others, where embolic particles might be expected to lodge. The arms below the deltoid insertion, and the lower limbs below the middle third of the thigh, appear invariably to remain free from nodules. The distal portions of the limbs enjoy an immunity from bone metastases as well as from subcutaneous