COMPLETE PROSTATECTOMY 917 Above all, the general condition of tlie patient must be taken into account, and more especially the state of the kidneys, as shown by the patient's symptoms and a careful analysis of his urine. A weak heart, atheroma of the vessels, urine of persistent low specific gravity contain- ing albumin and of low molecular concentration, contra-indicate the operation, as do wasting, thirst, headache, polyuria, and a low hsemo- renal index. Pyuria from cystitis, or unilateral pyelitis, is not a barrier to operation if the urine is of high specific gravity, many cases of cystitis clearing up after the operation. To sum up, complete prostatectomy is indicated if a patient with a chronically enlarged prostate has to pass a catheter frequently or passes it with difficulty, if the use of the instrument causes pain and hsematuria, if cystitis supervene or a calculus form in the bladder, or if attacks of acute retention are common, provided that the general condition is good and the kidneys are shown to be doing their work well. The operation is more especially indicated if the prostate is large and soft. Th,e question of the route, suprapubic or perineal, to be adopted is not yet settled, but the balance of evidence at present is in favour of sufrapubic prostatectomy, and most surgeons adopt this route for all their cases. It is the easier operation, and permits a more thorough exposure of the bladder; its great dis- advantage, difficulty of drainage, seldom arises. The operation consists in opening the bladder by an incision above the pubis after the viscus has been distended with fluid, incising the mucous membrane over the prostate, and then enucleating the organ with the fingers, aided by the fingers of the other hand in the rectum pushing the prostate upwards and forwards. The prostatic urethra and the common ejaculatory ducts are usually torn across. After the prostate has been removed, haemorrhage is stopped by sponge pressure, and the bladder drained by a large tube. The after-treatment consists in washing the bladder out daily, the tube being removed on the third day. The suprapubic wound should be closed at the end of the third week. Perineal prostatectomy.—This operation may be performed in many ways, and the primary incision in the perineum may be either a median longitudinal or a transverse one. In the median perineal incision the membranous urethra is opened, the prostatic urethra dilated, and a retractor passed into the bladder, so that when it is pulled upon the prostate is drawn into the wound; the fibrous sheath of the prostate is then incised, and the gland enucleated with the finger in one or more pieces. The bladder is drained by a tube, and the cavity, left by removal of the prostate, packed with gauze. During healing a bougie must be passed at regular intervals to maintain the patency of the urethra.