CLEFT PALATE: BROPHY'S OPERATION 153 its place. The wire should be No. 20. and may be doubled in case the condition of the parts and the tension upon the tissues necessary to approxi- mate them seem to require it. Nearer the front portion of the maxilla insert another wire, carrying it through the substance of the bone above the palatal plate, and through the outer side in a position corresponding to the place of entrance. Thus we will have one wire passing over the palate in front of the malar process of the bone, and another behind it. " The next step is to make lead plates (No. 17 American gauge) to fit the convexity of the buccal surface of the bones. Have them provided with eye-holes, through which are passed the protruded ends of the wire on each side. Twist these together—that is, the right end of the posterior Avith the right end of the anterior wire, and the same on the left side. These form heavy tension sutures, and the parts when once approximated by their use cannot be separated, as the sutures do not cut out. If the cleft is a very Avide one and we are not able to close it by twisting the wires together upon the lead plates, force may be exerted by the thumb and fingers, or by means of a forceps designed for that purpose. If by such force the edges of the cleft do not approximate, then there is a further step to be taken which will obviate these difficulties. After the cheek is well raised, divide the mucous membrane and the bone through the malar process. Carry the knife in a horizontal direction, and, when well inserted, sweep the handle for\\'ard and backward. In this way a maximiun amount of bone and a minimum amount of mucous membrane will be divided. This done on either side, the bone can readily be moved toward the median line. The wire sutures passing through the lead button may now be again twisted, and the cleft of the hard palate be closed by approximation of the two sides. The incision of the mucous membrane must be made as small as possible, as this membrane must serve to retain the bones in proximity, or to hold them nearly together. If, after the parts are approximated, they are kept antiseptically clean, or as nearly so as possible, they will unite kindly, and the palate will be formed so that its full function will be established. Separation of the bones is attended with very little hemorrhage, and the parts do not, as a rule, cause more inconvenience to the patient than the ordinary operation of lifting the hard palate, according to the practice of Sir William Fergusson. Should hsemorrhage require attention it is easily controlled by the application of sponges wrung out of water at about 170° F. These hot sponges, held in contact with the bleeding surfaces a very few minutes, will be all that is required. The germs of the teeth are sometimes disturbed, and I have found occasionally certain teeth imperfectly developed when erupted. The palatal arch is in some cases contracted, but this will not be permanent, for, if the operation is performed early enough, when development is com- plete, the teeth of the upper jaw occlude naturally with those of the lower jaw. It is a well-known fact that the alveolar processes develop with the teeth, and this seems to be a pronounced factor in the formation of the jaw and the guiding of the teeth into their proper position. After the approxi- mation of the edges in the manner that I have described, the parts should be thoroughly dried, the edges of the cleft carefully examined, and, if need be. some line silk sutures inserted here and there to ensure the perfect co- aptation of the parts. These coaptation sutures, formerly used by me in the closure of the hard palate in young children, are now seldom employed." Arbuthnot Lane's operation.—As the method now to be described aims at the closure of the cleft by large flaps composed of