THE BREAST 98 the skin, the edges of the incisions, or surrounding objects. The silk ends not actually dealt with at the moment must be kept wrapped in sterile gauze, which is also useful to protect them from the edges of the incisions as they are being drawn in after the probe. If neces- sary, all the threads can be withdrawn by reopening the two incisions just above the wrist. I have never been obliged to do this. There is no need to fix the upper ends of the threads by knotting them together, for the silk soon becomes adherent to the tissues along its whole length. Lastly, it is necessary to state that severe lymphatic oedema of the arm does not usually develop until within a few months of the patient's death from her disease. A long period of survival after the operation must not, as a rule, be expected. The aim of the operation is not the prolongation of that period, but its conversion from one of torture into one of comparative comfort. Cases unsuitable for lymphangioplasty.—The operation of capillary drainage by silk threads is contra-indicated in cases where a general antesthetic cannot be borne, and in cases where the threads would have to pass through cancerous tissue. It is also inadvisable to operate if there is growth present about the shoulder, or if the pain is mainly axillary, or is a lancinating pain shooting down the arm. In the presence of pleural effusion or secondary growths the operation is hardly worth doing, for its effects at best will be transient. Amputation of the arm, or interscapulo-thoracic amputation, is the only resource in cases unsuitable for lymphangioplasty. Treatment of cancerous ulcers. — Ulceration of the growth is due primarily to necrosis of the central portions of the growth from nutritional failure. But, unless care be taken, the ulcer becomes the seat of septic processes and the source of an offensive discharge. These distressing evils can be prevented or mitigated by careful attention to the antiseptic dressing of the ulcer. Strong anti- septics such as 10-volume hydrogen peroxide at full strength, acetone, or zinc chloride 40 gr. to the ounce, may be applied once or oftener if the ulcer is foul. The separation of sloughs may be hastened by hot fomentations. Subsequently the ulcer is dressed daily with mild unirritating applications, such, for instance, as boric lint, boric oint- ment, or lint wrung out of sanitas, or solution of cyllin 10-20 minims to the pint. SARCOMA OF THE BREAST Etiology.—It is doubtful whether injury plays a definite part in the origin of carcinoma, but there can be httle doubt that sarcoma of the breast is occasionally of traumatic origin (Coley) ; that is to say, the sarcoma develops at the site of, and within a short interval