465 ACUTE OBSTRUCTION deeply congested and rrdematous, and the mucous membrane may show hfemorrhages and superficial erosions. Distension is greatest when the small intestine is obstructed, because secretion of a considerable amount of fluid is reflexly stimu- lated. The distension gradually spreads upwards and may reach the duodenum or even the stomach. When the pelvic colon is the seat of the obstruction, the distension is less, because the higher reaches of the colon continue to absorb fluid. In course of time, the surface epithelium of the mucous membrane is shed, and organisms pass through the wall and reach the peritoneal cavity, giving rise to peritonitis. Minute, sharply circumscribed ulcers may form as a result of necrosis of the mucous membrane, and these may lead to perforation (Kocher). Sometimes there are multiple pin-point perforations scattered over a segment of bowel. The strangulated coil becomes deeply congested from interference with its venous return. At fii'st, imless the strangulation is very tight, the arteries are not occluded, and they continue to force blood into the veins, with the result that the congestion is increased. The bowel becomes deep purple in colour, tense and oedematous, and blood-stained serum exudes into the lumen and the peritoneal cavity. If the strangulation is so acute as to occlude the arteries at once, the affected segment is pale, grey or green, and flaccid, and it becomes gangrenous within a few hours. The occluded segment is distended with gas, which is probably carbonic dioxide that cannot be absorbed by the veins, and the distension may be enormous—for example, in volvulus of the pelvic colon. The tension of the strangulated coil is, as a rule, much greater than that of the distended bowel above the obstruction. The strangulated loop soon loses its power of pre- venting organisms passing through its wall, and in tliis way early infection of the peritoneum may take place. Sooner or later gangrene ensues from thrombosis of the vessels, and perforations of various sizes occur, leading to peritonitis. Clinical features.—The clinical features of acute obstruc- tion vary considerably according to the cause, but certain symptoms are common to all cases, whatever the cause, and these may be con- sidered here. It is to be borne in mind that obstruction itself is not the essential or all-important cause of the symptoms. The initial symptoms are evidence of " peritonism," or shock inflicted through the peritoneum ; the next to follow are due to interference with the onflow of the intestinal contents ; those of the later stages are signs of the absorption of toxins from the stagnating contents or from peritonitis. As a rule, the onset is sudden, the patient having had no previous discomfort or feeUng of illness, and it is seldom possible to attribute