THE KIDNEY 838 also blocked by calculus, and rarely there is congenital absence of the second kidney. The suppression on the affected side is due to sudden, complete obstruction by the impacted calculus ; that on the opposite side is usually reflex. The following conditions may be found :— 1. The ureter of a single functional kidney blocked by stone ; the second kidney absent, atrophied, or completely destroyed by disease. 2. The ureters of two functional kidneys simultaneously blocked by stones. 3. The ureter of one functional kidney blocked by stone, and the function of the second kidney, wlaich is diseased, suppressed by reflex influences. Symptoms.—The kidney on the recently affected side is fre- quently enlarged and tender, and there is rigidity of the abdominal muscles, especially marked on this side. There may be tenderness per rectum along the line of the ureter and of the lower end of the ureters. The calculus can sometimes be detected by the finger in the rectum or vagina. On cystoscopic examination the ureteric orifice on the recently diseased side is congested or even ecchymosed. A severe attack of ureteric colic usually precedes the onset of the anuria, but suppression may supervene without pain or other symptom. The course of calculous anuria is divided into two stages : 1. A period of tolerance.—The average duration of this stage is five or six days, and the longest sixteen days. The anuria may be' absolute, but frequently a little urine is secreted or there are one or more intervals of copious polyuria. After some days, digestive disturbances appear and the appetite fails. There are nausea, constipation and fiatulence, sleeplessness, irritability, headache, and lassitude. 2. A period of intoxication.—This stage commences about the fifth or seventh day. Drowsiness and, eventually, hallucinations and muttering delirium supervene. The pupils are contracted and twitchings of the muscles occur, but convulsions arc absent. There may be inability to move one or both legs, and the knee jerks are slow or abolished. The pulse and respiration are slow and irregular, and eventually Cheyne-Stokes respiration develops. The temperature is subnormal, ffidema is usually absent. Hiccup and vomiting are frequent symptoms. The bowels are constipated. The patient dies either during an attack of dyspnoea or from increasing coma and gradual heart failure. Diagnosis. 1. What is the cause of the anuria?—Previous attacks of colic, and the history of calculi, or the detection of a cal- culus in the ureter by the finger in the rectum or by radiography