826 THE KIDNEY may finally increase rapidly in size. The neighbouring kidney tissue is destroyed by pressure. Active growth sometimes ceases and the cyst dies, shrinks, and the walls become calcified, the fluid being absorbed and the contents converted into a putty-like mass. A large cyst may rupture into the pelvis of the kidney, and the daughter cysts be passed in the urine.- The cyst may now collapse and die, or it may refill and rupture again after some years. Rupture into the stomach, intestine, lung, or peritoneal cavity may take place. Suppuration frequently follows rupture, and is a grave complication. Symptoms.—A painless, globular tumour not moving with respiration is found in the position of the kidney, which may be detected attached to the tumour. Percussion is dull or tympanitic on the anterior surface. The cyst is hard and fluctuation is seldom detected. The urine is normal. Rupture occurs very frequently, and is accompanied by renal pain and ureteric colic, vomiting, and collapse. The urine becomes turbid, is alkaline, and contains small hydatid cysts (complete or ruptured), scolices, booklets, fat droplets, and sometimes blood. Frequent micturition, strangury, and even retention of urine may be caused. Rupture may be followed by toxaemia, high temperature, urticaria, and occasionally convulsions. Diaignosis.—Hydatids grow very slowly, are painless, and show no variations in size. Ureteral catheterization and pyelography exclude dilata- tion of the kidney. Polycystic kidney is bilateral, while hydatid and solitary cysts are unilateral. Exposure of the individual to contagion, a hydatid thrill, booklets or cysts in the iirine, when rupture has taken place, assist in diagnosis. Eosinopliilia is present, and recently the diagnostic reaction known as " fixation of the complement" has been successfully employed. Treatment.—Nephrectomy should only be performed when con- servative measures are impossible, or when suppuration or rupture has taken place. The mortality is 19 per cent. Resection or partial nephrectomy is only applicable in small cysts. The pouch may be " marsupialized," and washed daily with iodine solu- tion. After removal of as much of the cyst as possible, the opposing surfaces may be stitched together with catgut. PERIRENAL TUMOURS These are rare, but of wide variety. Lipoma, fibroma, fibro-myoma, and mixtures of these, may grow from the capsule or at the renal hilum, but are usually small; sarcomas are also found. Mixed tumours are rare; they arise from Wolffian remains and resemble renal mixed tiunours in structure. Perirenal cysts are believed to arise in Wolffian remains or in detached portions of embryonic peritoneum (Rambaud). Perirenal tumours may be large and cause pressure-atrophy of the kidney or obstruction of the ureter. Tumour formation, slow except in sarcomas, is the only constant symptom, but pressure symptoms may be present. The urine is normal. Early removal is required, by the lumbar route for small tumours, trans- peritoneally for large ones. The kidney should be saved, if possible, except when the growth is sarcomatous. TUMOURS OF THE SUPRARENAL GLAND These growths are rare; they resemble the structure of the gland, and are grouped under the name hypernephroma. Isolated examples have been described of glioma, neuroma, glio-fibroma, angioma, lymphangioma, lipoma, and cysts. About one-third of the new growths of the adrenals are found