THE TONGUE i86 HERPETIC ULCERS While herpetic glossitis is chiefly the property of the adult, herpetic ulcers, in which the herpetic vesicles pustulate and ulcerate, are more commonly met with in unhealthy children between the ages of 6 months and 3 years. The child is thin and often ill nourished, the bowels act sluggishly, the mouth is hot and full of saliva, and the breath offensive. The teeth are often covered with tartar or are decayed. The ulcers, which are multiple, are covered with the mem- branous pellicle described above ; they affect the anterior portion of the tongue, also its under-surface, and the adjacent buccal mucous membrane. The glands in the submaxillary region may be swollen. Treatment.—Give a dose of salts, castor oil, or rhubarb, and keep the bowels acting regularly. Put the patient on a plain diet, including fruit but avoiding pastry. Chlorate of potash in 4-5 gr. doses may be given every four hours for two days, but it must be used with care as it often has an irritant action on the kidneys. The tongue should be kept clean with a piece of soft Turkey sponge soaked in boric-acid solution or a solution of bicarbonate of soda ; later, more stimulating lotions such as alum or chromic acid may be needed. Mercury in all forms must be avoided. It may produce a gan- grenous stomatitis in these subjects. TRAUMATIC ULCERS " Dental ulcers " are wounds that remain unhealed owing to per- sistent irritation. They result from rough, broken, or irregular teeth, which are often carious, or from ill-fitting tooth-plates. Sometimes a broken pipe-stem may be responsible. They vary enormously in depth and appearance, but are usually situated on the sides or the tip. In more recent cases there is a shallow erosion—sometimes, however, acutely inflamed—surrounded by oede- matous tissue, and associated with glandular enlargement. Such a syndrome points to an acute bacterial infection superadded to the trauma. In most cases, however, the ulcer is chronic, perhaps covered with a slough, the edges becoming progressively indurated the longer the ulcer is left untreated. Patients who suffer from such ulcers are usually in bad health. The tongue is covered with fur, the breath is foul, and there is often a marked condition of pyorrhoea alveolaris. The diagnosis may be very difficult in old and neglected cases, and the observer must always keep in mind the possibility of an ulcer of this appearance being tuberculous, syphilitic, or cancerous. The general points which influence the differential diagnosis will be con-