THE KIDNEY 796 Etiology.—Rupture of the kidney may be due to a direct blow, kick, or squeeze, or to indirect violence, as in a fall from a height on to the buttocks, or in forcible acute flexion of the body, when the kidney may be injured by impact against the 12th rib or the transverse process of a vertebra. Pathology.—There may be tearing of the fatty capsule alone, with perirenal haemorrhage and subsequent formation of fibrous tissue, or a slight subcapsular rupture of the kidney, with accumulation of blood beneath the fibrous capsule, or a laceration of both fibrous capsule and kidney sub- stance which may reach the renal pelvis. The tears radiate transversely from the hilum, and affect especially the anterior surface and lower pole, but may be complete. Sometimes the ureter or a large branch of the renal artery is ruptured. Laceration of the renal pelvis or of a calyx is common. The peritoneum may be torn, and blood and urine poured into the peri- toneal cavity. This occurs more frequently in children, since the protective layer of perinephric fat is not developed before the tenth year. Ribs may be fractured, or the spinal column, pelvic girdle, bowel, liver, spleen, bladder, or lungs injured. Repair takes place rapidly in slight injuries. Infection and suppuration causing perinephritic abscess, suppurative nephritis, pyo- nephrosis, and peritonitis occur in 11-8 per cent, of cases. Symptoms.'—Shock is present in all severe grades of rupture. It may be delayed for some hours, so that the patient may walk a considerable distance after the accident, and only collapse when he sees blood in the urine. Pain radiates along the ureter and is accompanied by retraction of the testicle. It is especially severe when clots are passing along the ureter. There is also dull, heavy, deep-seated pain, increased by pressure and movement. The abdominal muscles are rigidly contracted. Soon after the injury, or some days later, a tumour due to perirenal effusion of blood appears in the loin. It is dull on percussion and tender on palpation, and may be movable (pseudo- hydronephrosis). It is usually diffuse and obscured by rigidity of the muscles. If the swelling is clearly outlined and " ballottement" can be obtained, the renal pelvis has been distended with blood and a haematonephrosis formed. Hsematuria is present in 91'5 per cent, of cases. It is absent when the rupture does not penetrate the renal pelvis or calyces, when the ureter is plugged with clot or ruptured by the violence. Blood may be delayed for some days. In half the cases it has disappeared in a week, but it may persist and appear intermittently for several weeks and may be fatal after two to three weeks. In copious bleeding there is clotting in the bladder with retention of urine. Secondary haemorrhage due to suppuration and necrosis of the kidney occurs. Temporary or persistent anuria is sometimes observed, and is due to previous disease or atrophy of the uninjured kidney. Discoloration of the skin at the external abdominal ring, scrotum, or labium may appear, after a fortnight or three weeks, as the result of blood tracking along the spermatic vein. Intraperitoneal effusion of blood and urine may be detected in the pouch of Douglas on rectal examination. The possible complications and sequelae are—(1) anuria. (2) intraperitoneal haemorrhage, (3) pseudo-hydronephrosis, (4) retention of urine, (5) septic complications, (6) traumatic hydronephrosis, (7) movable kidney, (8) traumatic nephritis. Course and prognosis.—In favourable cases the urine clears in a few days, and the symptoms disappear in ten days. In severe cases the immediate dangers are shock and haemorrhage, and the remote, septic complications and anuria. The later the onset and the less acute the pro-