902 THE URETHRA are affected later, those along the iliac vessels and in the groins being first involved. Metastases occur in the bones, liver, and lungs. The diagnosis from stricture is usually difficult. Spontaneous hfemor- rhage from the urethra, repeated severe haemoniiage after instrumentation, and persistent haematuria are important symptoms. From subacute and clironic periurethritis and from periurethral abscess the diagnosis is some- times only made by exploratory operation. Treatment.—Resection of the uretlira has been performed in the early stage, and amputation of the penis has given good results, but when the growth is extensive, complete removal of the penis (Thiersch-Gould operation) is necessary. Malignant Growths of the Female Urethra These are periurethral or urethral. The former occur after the age of 50, and the latter earlier. The urethral variety may be pedunculated or sessile, appearing as a dark-red grape-like polypus or a nodular ulcerated area. The growths are squamous or rarely columnar epithelium, or sarcoma. There is pain on micturition, on coitus, and on sitting and walking, frequent micturition, difficulty, and occasionally complete retention. Incontinence is rare, haematuria is usually present. The urethra may be excised by a longi- tudinal incision on the anterior wall of the vagina. The vesical end is, if possible, preserved and implanted in the vaginal wall. TUBEECULOSIS OF THE URETHRA AND PENIS Tuberculosis of the urethra is rare. Primary tuberculosis has been ob- served, but the infection is almost invariably secondary to tuberculosis of the urinary or genital system. The female urethra is seldom affected. In the male, the posterior urethra is usually attacked by spread from the prostate or the bladder. A deep tuberculous cavity may open from the substance of the prostate into the posterior urethra, or there may be superficial ulceration or tuberculous granulation tissue. The anterior uretlira may show small super- ficial ulcers. If the penis is affected the urethral mucous membrane is involved in the tuberculous infiltration. A periurethral cold abscess may form, and eventually fistulas appear in the perineum. Stenosis of the urethra is occasionally observed in the bulbous or female urethra in cases of urinary or genital tuberculosis. There is seldom a localized stricture, but the wall is infiltrated, and an irregular fibrous thickening results. A urethral discharge is always present, usually thin and pale, but occasion- ally so abundant and purulent and associated with symptoms so acute as to suggest gonorrhoeal urethritis. Haematuria, frequent and difficult micturi- tion, and occasionally complete retention may be present. There is irregular periurethral induration. Tuberculosis of the penis may be confined to ulceration of the glans, usually on the under surface, or the corpora cavernosa may be invaded. Treatment.—Urethral tuberculosis is so seldom an isolated lesion that separate treatment is rarely necessary. Stricture should be treated by internal urethrotomy and dilatation. A cold abscess is opened and tincture of iodine applied. Fistulee are treated by scraping and injection of iodoform emulsion, bismuth paste, or iodine. Conservative treatment should be adopted when the penis is involved, but amputation may become necessary for extensive lesions. Tuberculin may be administered.