THE APPENDIX 542 IS swollen and mottled in appearance. In some instances the lumen is wholly or partly obliterated (Fig. 432). If the secretion in a catarrhal appendicitis is unable to escape freely into the caecum, several results may occur, depending partly upon the completeness of the obstruction, but chiefly upon ^ the degree of bacterial activity within the organ. ^ With complete obstruction and mild bacterial activity a cyst may result, containing clear or turbid fluid, and occasionally attaining a large size (Fig. 433). The fluid may prove to be sterile. S With only partial obstruction a concretion ^ ^ may be formed consisting of a mass of inspis- 4, 43 T3 3 3 sated mucus and fsecal matter. These concre- tions frequently present, on section, a laminated § S appearance, as though added to from time to time ^ by the deposition of fresh layers (Fig. 434). In ^ .| appearance they often resemble a cherry-stone or 3 "2 f a date-stone; and it is this resemblance which ^ has given rise to the popular notions as to the o I danger of swallowing such objects. Occasionally •S S ^ concretion attains a large size and resembles e''S a gall-stone. Once a concretion has formed and % < unable to escape into the csecum, it becomes a n c §^ source not only of discomfort but also of danger 8 g to its possessor, inducing repeated attacks of S -5 inflammation, and threatening ulceration and ^ ^ ^ perforation. If a concretion is able to escape S into the csecum, or to be shifted to a different I I g-*^ spot in the appendix, the ulcerated surface g against which it lay becomes cicatrized, and a < stricture results. \ j. When the bacterial activity is great the in- ^ flammatory changes are of a more pronounced ^ nature, and a more advanced series of changes ^ ^ takes place. The inflammation involves the whole thickness of the appendicular M'all, and the bacteria are able to pass into the subserous tissue and finally to infect the peritoneum. The most virulent forms of peritonitis can occur from the migration of bacteria through the wall of an inflamed but unperforated appendix. Bacterial invasion of the peritoneal cavity may take place in other ways also—(1) thrombosis of the appendicular vessels followed by gangrene of the organ en masse; (2) localized gangrene from vascular disturbance, or from pressure ■over a concretion, leading to rupture or perforation of the appendix