SEPTIC EPIDIDYMO-ORCHITIS 931 (a) Infection of the testis by micro-organisms wliicli have reached the organ by way of the vas deferens from the urethra, prostate, and vesiculse seminales. By far the most frequent of these organisms are the gonococcus, staphylo- cocci, and streptococci, but ia some cases the tubercle bacillus reaches the testis by this route. (b) Infective micro-organisms which reach the testis by means of the blood-stream. These cases are secondary to the general infective diseases, such as mumps, typhoid fever, scarlet fever, smallpox, etc., or are due to invasion hy the tubercle bacillus or the spirochsete of syphilis. (c) Gout. (d) Injury and strain. GONORRHCEAL EpIDIDYMO-OrCHITIS This important variety of Epididymo-Orchitis is discussed in Vol. I., p. 839. Epididymo-Orchitis of Urethral Origin other than Gonor- RHCEAL Urethritis—Septic Epididymo-Orchitis The most frequent causes of non-gonococcal urethritis are septic organisms which invade the urethra after instrumentation, operations on the urethra, and prostate, the passage and impaction of calculi iu the urethra, or the bursting of abscesses from the vesiculis, prostate, and Cowper's glands into the urethra. Urethritis due to septic organ- isms is not infrequently followed by an epididymo-orchitis which has the same symptomatology and pliysical signs as that due to the gonococcus, and at first demands the same treatment. Prognosis.-—Although the majority of cases of septic epididymo- orchitis end either in resolution or in fibrosis, a large number go on to suppuration. This pus formation may occur in one of three places : {a) In the tunica vaginalis.—This is perhaps the most common place, the fluid present in the tunica in all cases of acute epididymo- orchitis becoming more or less purulent. The redness and oedema of the sldn are most marked in front of the testis, where a fluctuating swelling forms, from which pus is evacuated. Tliis condition does not lead to fungous testis or to atrophy imless it is co-existent with suppuration in the testis. (b) In the body of the testis.—Owing to the dense timica albuginea, suppuration in the body of the testis is frequently associated with gangrene and sloughing of the organ. The body is much enlarged, and if incisions are not made into it the pus bursts externally, frequently through several fistulse. Complete atrophy of the testis is a common sequel.