INGUINAL HERNIA 595 hernia of long standing and large dimensions, and rarely even then owing to irreducibility. (9) In thin subjects it is at times possible, with the finger in the ring, to feel the pulsation of the deep epigastric artery along the outer edge of tlio neck of tlie sac. Symptoms and diagnosis of inguinal hernia.—In most cases subjective symptoms are entirely absent, and the patient is unaware of anything amiss mitil a swelling is accidentally found, or attention is directed to it by a medical man. Occasionally there is a feeling of dragging in the loin of that side, or actual shooting pain caused by the stretching of the fascial planes ; this may be accom- panied by nausea or actual retching, a small piece of omentum or a knuckle of bowel being nipped during sudden flexion of the thigh. There is also a sense of weakness and insecurity in the groin on coughing, which, even in patients ignorant of the presence or nature of a hernia, prompts them to support it by manual pressure. At times the presence of a varicocele at an unusual period of life may call attention to the trouble, or the patient may complain of gurgling in the region of the groin when making any expiratory effort. When the hernia has reached the length of producing an obvious swelling in the groin and is reducible, the diagnosis is simple ; thus, the reduction, on applying pressure, is rapid, and often accompanied by a gurgling sound if bowel be present; if the tips of the fingers be placed over the extenial abdominal ring, and the patient be directed to cough, a distinct impulse will be felt, which will be still more obvious if the little finger be passed gently into the ring by invagi- nating before its tijj the skin of the scrotum. By careful palpation the swelling will be found to lie above the level of Poupart's ligament, and, if it has reached the external abdominal ring, internalhi to tJie spine of the pubes. The empty sac may also be felt as a thickening in the course of the cord. Where the hernia is confined to the inguinal canal (i.e. a bubo- nocele ") and is irreducible, there is more difficulty ; it is then necessary to differentiate between hernia and the following inguinal swellings :— (a) Evcijsted hydrocele of the spermatic cord, or canal of Nuck.—This is firm, elastic, usually of small size, dull to percussion, fixed in position, and not usually tender. Using a small frontal-sinus transillumination lamp, it will be fomid to be translucent ; the intestine in infants, however, is also translucent. (6) Retained testis.—Testes retained in the inguinal canal are prac- tically always mobile ; they retain their characteristic sensation of tenderness to pressure, and are nearly always in association with an unobliterated processus vaginalis. (c) A lipoma of the spermatic cord is softer, more lobulated, and quite devoid of tenderness.