253 THE CeSOPHAGUS By H. M. RIGBY, M.S.Lond., F.R.C.S.Eng. Anatomy.—The cesopliagus extends from the lower border of the cricoid cartilage to the cardiac end of the stomach. Its upper extremity (Quain) is opposite the disc between the sixth and seventh cervical vertebrae. In its course downwards it follows a somewhat sinuous direction, and has two distinct curves to the left side. The first curve to the left extends from its origin to the root of the neck. As the superior mediastinum is reached, the oesophagus tends to regain the mid-line, which it attains in the posterior mediastinum about the level of the fifth dorsal vertebra. From this point it again deviates to the left side. It passes through a special opening in the diaphragm, and ends in the stomach opposite the lower border of the tenth dorsal vertebra. Its length is 9-10 in. It is especially prone to disease in three portions. These are— 1. The upper end, in the region of the cricoid cartilage and larynx, one of the narrowest parts of the cesophagus. It is situated opposite the seventh cervical vertebra, and is, in the adult, 6-7 in. from the incisor teeth. This is a very frequent site of growths and ulcerations. The oesophagus is much flattened antero-posteriorly in this part owing to the close apposition of the cartilage of the larynx and the vertebrae. 2. That part of the oesophagus in the neighbourliood of the bifur- cation of the trachea, and in close relation with the left bronchus. The trachea bifurcates just above the body of the fifth dorsal vertebra, and the left bronchus crosses in front of the oesophagus at the level of this vertebra, i.e. about 11 in. from the incisor teeth. This part of the oesophagus is also a favourite position for malignant growths. Its close relation to such structures as the trachea, aorta, pleurae, and pericardium lends additional importance to the occurrence of growths in this situation. 3. The lower end, at its junction with the stomach, 15-lG in. from the incisor teeth. Here the lumen of the oesophagus undergoes marked narrowing, and the structure of its mucous lining manifests