CONGENITAL ABNORMALITIES 925 sides. The condition is usually associated with abnormalities of the external sexual apparatus. ANTERIOR INVERSION Several forms of inversion of the testis have been described, but anterior inversion is the only one of interest. It is said to occur in one in every twenty males. With anterior inversion the body of the testis and the tunica vaginalis are posterior, whilst the epididymis is anterior. If not recognized, the condition may lead to errors of diagnosis, or, more important still, to injury of the testis in the tapping of a hydrocele, if the position of the testis has not been carefully ascertained beforehand. IMPERFECT DESCENT In the early stages of development the testis is situated in the abdomen, below the Iddney, and it is only in the seventh and eighth months of foetal life that it descends into the scrotum. The descent of the testis is governed by the gubernaculum testis, a fibro-muscular bundle with attacliments above to the lower pole of the testis, the globus, minor of the epididymis, and the caecum, and below to the skin at the bottom of the scrotum and over the perineum, the symphysis pubis, and the anterior superior spine of the ilium. In the course of its normal descent the testis passes through the inguinal canal : its arrest at any point constitutes the imperfectly descended testis ; its departure from the normal direction, into that of some of the non- scrotal fibres of the gubernaculum, the ectopic testis. The testis may therefore be situated in the abdomen, in the inguinal canal, just outside the external ring, or in the perineum, over the sym- physis pubis or near the anterior superior spine. The testis has also been found in Scarpa's triangle, having passed into the tliigh over Poupart's ligament after it had issued from the external abdominal ring. The cause of imperfect or abnormal descent is imknown, but it is probably intimately connected with development of the testis, as the incorrectly placed organ is nearly always mideveloped and functionless as far as the secretion of spermatozoa is concerned ; even if spermatozoa are foimd in the semen of a crjqDtorchid it will only be at puberty or soon after, the imperfectly descended gland imder- going premature atrophy. In all cases of imperfectly descended testis the processus vaginalis is to be foimd in the scrotum, but the upper end does not become shut off from the general peritoneal cavity, and the patient always has a potential or an actual inguinal hernia. Fluid may collect in the peritoneal pouch and form a congenital hydrocele. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of imperfectly descended testis is