RUPTURE OF STOMACH 331 of active ulceration or of many adhesions around the pylorus, this is inadmissible, posterior no-loop gastro-jejunostomy should be per- formed, the anastomosis being made to the pyloric portion of tlie stomach. The result of surgical treatment on these lines is most gratifying ; the death-rate in large numbers of cases does not exceed 5 per cent., and in the hands of those who are doing much work of this kind is less than 2 per cent. Advanced cases of atonic dilatation may in rare instances need surgical treatment, but this must only be carried out after the failure of prolonged medical treatment, rest in bed, and lavage. As first pointed out by Mkulicz, and again by Paul and the present writer, gastro-jejunostomy in this condition is frequently followed by the establishment of a vicious circle. In these cases a mechanical factor is added, namely, kinking of the pylorus. Finney's operation, followed by medical treatment, will give relief, and should be carried out. Attempts have been made to treat the condition by folding the wall of the stomach so as to make it smaller (gastroplication). This is useless, for the size of the stomach matters not at all ; the patient is suffering from weakness of the stomach wall, with or without obstruction, and in neither case can good result. INJURIES The stomach or duodenum may be injured by violence applied from without, in abdominal contusions and wounds ; or from within, as the result of the passage of instruments, over-distension, or the action of swallowed corrosive fluids or foreign bodies. EUPTURE OF THE STOMACH Uncomplicated rupture of the stomach is an accident of extreme rarity. The cases may be divided into two groups, the " spontaneous " and the traumatic. In both the rupture may be complete, involving all the layers of the stomach-wall, or incomplete : the latter can be subdivided into those involving the serous coat only; those involving serous and muscular coats—the interstitial, usually due to external injuries; and those causing rupture of mucosa, generally the result of internal violence. Spoxtaxeous Rupture of the Stomach Tliis heading should cover only cases of rupture of a presumably liealthy organ, occurring apart from external violence. It has been customary to include ruptures due to lavage and distension with air