962 SPERMATIC CORD Encysted HiEMATOCELE of the Spermatic Cord Is produced by hsemorrliage occurring into an encysted hydrocele of the cord. It is exceedingly uncommon, and the diagnosis is only made on exploring a swelling of the spermatic cord. The treatment is removal. Diffuse Hematocele of the Spermatic Cord Is caused by rupture of one of the veins of the pampiniform plexus, with hsemorrhage into the cellular tissue of the cord. The cause of the rupture may be a blow on the cord, but more usually it is a result of violent muscular exertion, such as severe straining at stool. Symptoms.—During muscular exertion a severe cutting pain is felt in the inguinal region, and this is followed by the appearance of a diffuse semi-solid swelhng in the cord, extending from the inguinal canal to the top of the testis, which can usually be plainly differentiated below. Ecchymosis of the scrotum often follows. Treatment.—A small hsematocele may be left to be absorbed, but if it is large the swelling should be incised, the clot removed, and the bleeding-point secured. VARICOCELE A varicocele consists of a varicose enlargement of the veins of the pampiniform plexus and the spermatic cord. The disease rarely, if ever, affects the spermatic vein in the abdomen, nor are the veins accompanying the artery to the vas affected. The superficial veins of the penis and scrotum are frequently enlarged and tortuous. The condition is much more frequently seen on the left side than on the right, but both sides may be affected. Varicocele is most frequently met with in adolescents, and is rarely seen in middle-aged or old men, although a varicocele present in youth may persist throughout life. Etiology.—The cause is unknown, but the condition is probably a congenital abnormality of the spermatic veins exaggerated by the feeble flow of the blood through them on account of the long, narrow, tortuous course of the spermatic artery and the assumption by man of the upright posture. Dilatation of the veins of the pampiniform plexus may, however, be entirely due to back-pressure. This is seen in the varicocele that sometimes accompanies neoplasms of the left kidney, as the result of invasion of the renal vein and blocking of the left spermatic vein. A varicocele arising in an elderly subject should always lead to examination of the kidney. The reason of the greater frequency of varicocele on the left side is unknown, in spite of many ingenious theories, the chief of which are —the entrance of the left spermatic vein into the left renal vein at a