THE UTERUS I022 (4) In the senile atrofhic variety the vaginal cervix has disappeared, and is replaced by a depression at the top of the vagina, from which blood oozes. No mass or ulcer may be felt, and the real condition is easily overlooked. Diagnosis.—When the disease is well established, the freely bleeding friable mass, fungating or excavated, can scarcely be mistaken. The massive infiltrative form is more difficult to diagnose. The size and induration of the cervix, not less than its tendency to bleed, should awaken suspicion. Allusion has already been made to the slight physical signs of the senile atrophic form. A quite early case of carcinoma of the cervix is rarely seen. Such cases present either a small reddish nodule or an irregular ulcer, difficult to distinguish from the " erosion " on which the growth is beginning. The surface of an erosion, though perhaps irregular and hard, is never friable, and though it may sometimes be made to bleed by rough handling, yet any pronounced tendency to haemorrhage immediately suggests carcinoma. The diagnosis of early cervical carcinoma is often impossible without the aid of the microscope. Therefore, all suspicious cases should be immediately examined under an anaesthetic and a portion of the suspected tissue removed for investigation. The comparative rarity with which patients seek advice in the early stages of the disease is due to their ignorance of the significance of irregular uterine haemor- rhage. The popular delusion that the pre-menopausal period is normally associated with excessive or continued bleeding cannot be too strongly combated, nor the idea that the absence of pain negatives a malady of any importance. It is, further, of the highest necessity that practi- tioners should insist on a vaginal examination before treating any case of genital haemovrhage. Treatment.—All cases in the operable stage should be promptly dealt with by surgical measures. The disease may be attacked from the vaginal or the abdominal route. Vaginal hysterectomy. Standard of operability.—Simple vaginal hysterectomy is only applicable when the growth is limited to the cervix, when sufficient of the cervix remains to get a hold upon, and when the uterus is sufficiently movable to permit of its being pulled well down towards the vaginal outlet. Induration of the broad ligaments or utero-sacral folds, or extension of the growth on to the vagina, bars the operation. Not more than 1.5 per cent, of the cases are seen in this early stage. The operation.—The growth having been scraped and cauterized, and the limit of the bladder on the vaginal vault ascertained, the mucous membrane covering the cervix is circumcised at its junction with that of the vault. The bladder is then separated from the supra- vaginal cervix by scissors and sWab pressure until the peritoneum at