MAMMARY CANCER : SIGNS 71 the skin, shrinking of the breast, elevation and retraction of the nipple). c. Those depeirclent upon lymphatic obstruction (orange-rind skin, brawny arm, serous effusions). D. Those dependent on fibrosis and failure of nutrition in the central parts of the older deposits (ulceration of primary growth, ulceration or umbilieation of the older secondary deposits). E. Those dependent upon the formation of satellite or metas- tatic nodules—■ 1. In the lymphatic glands, from lymphatic embolism. 2. In continuity with the primary gTowth, as terminal out- crops of long lines of lymphatic permeation. 3. In the viscera and serous membranes, from invasion of the serous cavities and subsequent transccelomic implanta- tion. 4. Those resulting from blood embolism. Symptoms and signs.—It is unfortunate that in the earliest stage of breast cancer the signs are equivocal. Most of the classical signs are not produced by the growth itself, but by the fibrotic pro- cesses which are the reaction of the organism to the invading epithe- lium. Thus they are only available when the disease has already made a certain amount of progress. A patient with cancer may appear well nourished and in excellent general health. The so-called cancerous cachexia is a late sign, often produced by septic absorption from an ulcerated primary growth, or due to the habitual use of morphia. First sign noticed by the patient In four-fifths of the cases of mammary cancer the patient is led to seek advice because she finds a lump in the breast. In a few of these cases an occasional sharp twinge of pain has led to the detection of the lump, but as a rule pain and discomfort have been conspicuous by their absence. It is rare to find a cancer in a patient whose only complaint is of mammary pain. If the patient comes complaining of severe pain and a cancer is found, the growth is usually so far advanced as to be inoperable. The patient may have recognized and concealed its existence for a long period, perhaps for years, or, if exceptionally unobservant, she may not have noticed the lump. Occasionally a lump in the axilla may be noticed by the patient before she detects anything wrong with the breast. Discharge or bleeding from the nipple, retraction of the nipple, discoloration or puckering of the skin, contraction or ulceration of the breast, swelling of the arm, pain in the spine, hip, or abdomen, fracture of the femur, an abdominal swelling, or signs of paraplegia^—each of these conditions may be exceptionally the reason