76 THE BREAST The diagnosis between chronic summed up in tabular form :— Ohbonic Mastitis A "mobile induration uniformly and finely granular, only vaguely palpable with the flat hand. Indurations often multiple. Indurations sector-shaped, mapping out the limits of one or more lobes of the breast. Indurated areas often tender and may be the seat of pain. The indurated areas do not adhere to skin or to fascia. Axillary glands only slightly enlarged, often distinctly tender, not hard. Nipple not retracted. Skin normal. mastitis and cancer may here be Carcinoma A definite lump fixed in the breast and easily palpable with the flat hand. A single lump. The lump is more or less rounded, and does not respect the anato- mical boundaries wliich separate adjoining lobes. Lump neither painful nor tender. Lump usually (but not necessarily) shows signs of adhesion to skin or fascia, or both. Axillary glands often (but not neces- sarily) enlarged, hard and not tender. Nipple may be retracted. Skin may present the orange-rind appearance. Diagnosis is, however, complicated by the fact that a carcinoma may arise in an area of chronic mastitis. A local lump in the midst of a sector-shaped area of granular induration may be a cyst, a fibro-adenoma, or an early carcinoma. Multiple rounded and movable lumps will probably prove to be cysts ; a single and fixed one is often a carcinoma, and imperatively demands explora- tion. Only in cases where the indurations are vague, sector-shaped, and uniformly and finely granular can a carcinoma be excluded with certainty. In the large class of doubtful cases, experience alone can decide, and less harm is done by exploring unnecessarily than by awaiting the full development of a carcinoma. Nevertheless, routine operations in chronic mastitis are much to be deprecated. A cyst deeply situated in the breast of a stout patient may simulate a carcinoma most closely, especially if surrounded by chronic mastitis. It is exceptional to obtain fluctuation in a deep cyst. The absence of enlarged axillary glands and of adhesion to skin or fascia, while suggesting that the tumour may be a cyst, does not exclude carcinoma. It is true that the puncture of the tumour by a trocar and cannula will settle whether a cyst is present; but the surgeon's anxiety is merely transferred from the tumour to the surrounding breast tissue, since a carcinoma not infrequently arises in the breast tissue near a cyst. In the absence of unequivocal signs of cancer, certainty can only be reached by exploration and histological examination.