THE BREAST 92 of this muscle, which lie in direct contact with the deep surface of the breast, should be divided at their origin from the ribs. The whole mass of tissues ianow freed and removed by the division, farther back towards the scapula, of these same digitations of the serratus magnus. A superficial layer of the digitations of the external oblique, which arise from the fifth and sixth ribs, should also be removed. The parts removed form a single circular biconvex-lens-like mass with thin extensive fascial edges. To its outer side a pyramidal mass of axillary fat and glands is attached. The mass shows a central circular patch of ablated skin on its superficial aspect. On its deep aspect are seen the pectorals, and portions of the serratus magnus and of the anterior layer of the rectus sheath. Haemostasis and drainage—Any bleeding-points wliich have escaped ligature or forcipressure are now attended to. Two small drainage-tubes are inserted through punctures in the extreme base of the skin flaps, one in the epigastric angle, the other at the posterior margin of the axilla. These tubes are removed at the fii'st dressing, twenty-four hours later. Sutures—Trial is now made to secure the best coaptation of the edges of the incision. The problem varies in each case according to the situation of the growth in the breast, and to the degree of laxity of the sldn. The most striking indirect advantage of the operation now becomes evident. The wide removal of the deep fascia so mobilizes and frees the surrounding skin that even after the removal of a 5-in. circle of integument the edges of the. incision can usually be brought together, without the use of tension stitches, by a single continuous suture of fine catgut. Tension in the skin flaps—the principal cause of prolonged shock, of pain and discomfort to the patient, of impaired circulation in the skin flaps, and of delayed union and ulceration in the sutured incision—is thus entirely avoided. Often it will be found best to bring the edges together in triradiate fashion, in other cases as a sinuous line. In growths of the upper and outer quadrant some difficulty may be met with in covering the raw area, and in these cases the axillary flap of skin may be pulled inwards to assist in covering the thoracic gap. Removal of the supraclavicular glands.—The posterior triangle should be opened up, and the siipraclavicular glands removed if these glands are palpably enlarged, or in any event if the subclavian glands at the apex of the axilla are cancerous, or if the primary growth is situated in the upper hemisphere of the breast. My experience as regards recurrence shows that the posterior triangle should be cleared much oftener than is at present the practice in this country, and that Halsted and Rodman are right in advocating the frequent if not the invariable performance of this dissection.