FORMATION OF HERNIAL SACS 581 are in reality congenital diverticula. This, as pointed out by Hamilton Russell, is especially the case with femoral hernias, and probably applies to the inguinal variety as well. The sacs of undoubtedly congenital origin are those wliich occur (a) into the patent vaginal process in the male, (5) into the patent canal of Nuck in the female, (c) at the patent mnbilical ring in the infant. These are considered later. 2. Distension diverticula (acquired sacs).—These occur as the result of muscular weakness at certain sites in the abdominal wall, assisted by forced expiratory efforts which repeatedly raise the intra- abdominal pressure. They are commonly thicker in the wall and more adherent at the neck than the sacs of congenital origin, and are often wide-mouthed from the first, especially when they are of the variety met with in direct hernia ; they are frequently multilocular, and are rarely empty. 3. Traction diverticula.^—For the formation of a sac by the constant drag of a tumour attached to some portion of the j^eritoneal surface, the action of gravity is necessary ; and for this reason such sacs are rarely seen in any position other than the pelvic floor. Sacs are, however, formed in the inguinal region by the dragging of tumours of the cord or testis, or by the weight of large hydroceles. Lipomas of the spermatic cord are often found at the fundus of a sac, suggesting the possibility that the sac has arisen first by traction and then by distension. 4. Downward displacement of the peritoneum.— This method of formation is rare ; it is usually seen in cases of hernia associated with general enteroptosis (Glenard's disease), and results in the presence of a complete sac only at the commencement of the trouble, for in time the iliac peritoneum slips down, and what was the posterior wall of tlie sac becomes first the fimdus and then the anterior wall, the posterior wall now being deficient, and its place being taken by the down-slipping caecum on the right side, or the sigmoid on the left; a partial sac is thus eventually formed (Fig. 457). Such sacs are more often met with in direct than in oblique inguinal hernias. The congenital sac.—Prior to birth, two well-recognized processes of peritoneum exist, which should be obliterated when the infant is born. These are (1) the umbilical process, and (2) the funiculo-vaginal process of the testis in the male, or the canal of Nuck in the female. The first rarely persists long ; containing at birth a small coil of ileum in connexion with Meckers diverticulum, it commonly closes within a few days. Remaining imobliterated, however, it forms the sac of a " congenital umbilical hernia."