282 THE CESOPHAGUS 2. Palliative measures.—If no instrument can be passed through the stricture, then a temporary gastrostomy should be made, to permit feeding and to afEord rest to the cesophagus. After a few days, further attempts at dilatation may be successful. If, however, after a suitable period, bougies cannot be passed down, the procedure adopted by Abbe, Dunham, and others is worth a trial. This consists of making the patient swallow one end of a string of silk (Dunham), or of a piece to which a shot has been attached (Abbe). The silk passes down into the stomach, and is found and brought out through a gastrotomy opening. Abbe employs the string to act as a saw and so divide the constricted portions : when this is done a bougie is fastened to the upper end and pulled down from below. When the stricture is placed low down in the cesophagus it can sometimes be dilated from below, through the opening in the stomach, by the passage of suitable forceps or dilators, or even the finger. Con- siderable difficulty is often experienced in this manoeuvre, but successful cases have been reported by Kendal Franks and others. Cutting instruments after the pattern of urethrotomes have been devised for the division of impassable oesophageal strictures [internal fjesofhagotomy). These are always dangerous owing to the risk of their cutting through the wall and leading to mediastinal infection. They are condemned by most surgeons. Electrolysis of the stricture has been attempted in a few cases (Franks), but the method has little value. Finally, mention may be made of operations which are planned to divide the strictures from without [external cesophagotomy), or even to excise the stenosed portion. Such operations are indicated when an impassable stricture of small extent is situated in the upper portion of the oesophagus. The oesophagus is exposed as for oesophagotomy, and the extent of the stricture determined. If possible the wall is opened below the stricture, and the latter divided from below upwards ; bougies are then passed, and dilatation effected. The opening in the wall is now carefully closed, and free drainage provided. This gives most satisfactory results, but unfortunately is seldom practicable. The stricture is often found to extend into the thorax, so that the incision has to be made either directly over the stenosed portion or above it. It is better in these cases to open the cesophagus above and attempt to find the upper opening of the stricture. This can then be enlarged by a cutting instrument or by the passage of a probe or stiff bougie. In exceptional cases, excision of the entire segment has been successfully carried out (Kendal Franks). The skin of the neck has been employed to make good the portion which has been removed (von Hacker).