THE TESTIS 924 Symptoms.—The condition is usually discovered during routine rectal examination in cases of tuberculosis of the testis, prostate, or bladder, but in some cases the first symptom may be the appearance of a chronic abscess in the perineum. There are frequency of micturition, a feeling of weight in the perineum, and occasionally a urethral discharge. On rectal examination the vesicula in the early stages feels hard and nodular, but later the nodules soften, and in advanced cases a soft fluctuating swelling is felt. Treatment.—The form of treatment is largely determined by the condition of the other parts of the genito-urinary tract. In cases of tuberculous disease of the testis submitted to epididymectomy or castration the corresponding vesicula, if diseased, should be removed at the same operation by perineal section, and this plan should also be followed if primary disease of the vesicula is diagnosed. In cases of advanced genito-urinary tuberculosis, general treatment is all that is indicated. Tuberculous abscesses should be opened from the perineum and the contents carefully scraped out. CYSTS, CONCRETIONS, AND NEW GROWTHS Cysts of these organs have been described, and are usually con- sidered to be retention cysts due to stricture of the duct. Stricture of the common ejaculatory duct is very rare, and it is probable that most cases of alleged cysts of the vesiculse have little to do with these receptacles. Concretions have been found in connexion with chronic vesiculitis, but they are very rare. New growths are usually secondary to disease of the prostate ; primary new growths are so rare as to be pathological curiosities. THE TESTIS CONGENITAL ABNORMALITIES POLYORCHISM The majority of reports of cases of polyorcliism are untrustworthy, but several definite cases of this rare condition have been described. Only cases verified by dissection and microscopical examination should be admitted, for encysted hydroceles, omental hernia, etc., have all been described as supernumerary testes. ANORCHISM—MONORCHISM These cases are more frequently met with than cases of polyorchism, but the condition still remains very rare. The testis alone may be absent, or any or all parts of the sexual apparatus, on one or both