ACUTE APPENDICITIS : DIAGNOSIS 549 whether it will proceed to abscess formation or tlie involvement of the jjeritoneum in a diffuse, spreading inflammation. The acuteness of the onset is but a poor indication of the probable course of events, because an apparently mild attack may go on to the formation of an abscess, or may, from perforation or gangrene, at any moment present the most urgent symptoms of spreading peritonitis. When the patient has not been seen from the commencement of the attack, and the course has been so atypical that the disease could not be recognized until two or three days have elapsed, the diagnosis of the degree and severity of the appendicitis becomes a matter of some difficulty. In watching a case of this kind so that surgical treatment may be adopted at the right moment, it is of the utmost importance to avoid the administration of morphia or opium, since these drugs may completely obscure symptoms of great gravity. The presence of a definite tumour, felt either through the abdominal wall or per rectum, w-hich is increasing in size, or at least not diminishing, after several days of illness, together with continued fever and high leuco- cytosis, especially if accompanied by diarrhoea, indicates the formation of an abscess. At this stage spontaneous relief may occur from the dis- charge of pus into the bowel. This would be indicated by the passage of pus and blood per rectum, followed by a fall of temperature and an amelioration of the febrile symptoms. On the other hand, the pus may approach the surface, when the abscess will be felt as a defi- nite rounded tumour. As localization becomes more complete, toxic absorption diminishes, so that even without evacuation of the jjus the febrile symptoms in such cases subside, and the presence of a large abscess, full of the most evil-smelling jjus, is not incompatible with a normal temperature and a clean tongue. The symptoms which indicate a spreading peritonitis are an accelerating pulse-rate and a subnormal temperature, vomiting, " facies Hippocratica," and increasing abdominal distension and rigidity. Hiccup is a s}Tnptom of grave import. Treatment.—^Alany slight attacks of acute appendicitis subside spontaneously, but, inasmuch as there is no means of distinguishing these cases at the onset, the decision to postpone operation carries with it a grave responsibilit3^ With cases running a mild course, which are not seen or are not diagnosed for several days, and in which opera- tion is strongly opposed by the jDatient or his friends, non-operative treatment may be adopted, for the details of which reference must be made to the textbooks of Medicine. The main points in the treatment are complete rest in bed until all pain and tenderness have disappeared, a restricted diet, a regular action of the bowels secured by enemata and mild aperients, fomentations to the abdomen, and the avoidance of opium;