THE (ESOPHAGUS The results are gloomy : 5 patients died as the result of the operation, and no case survived for longer than thirteen months. In Czerny's case the upper end of the lower segment of the oesophagus was fixed to the margins of the skin wound, and the patient was fed by means of a tube. The field of this operation is a limited one ; it is only suitable for small growths situated in the upper part of the oesophagus. The risks of infection are great, and it is generally found impossible to restore the continuity of the oesophageal wall after thorough excision of the growth. In the majority of cases, carcinoma invades the thoracic portion of the oesophagus, and the dangers and difficulty of attempting its removal by operation can be easily understood. The operation of thoracic oesophagectomy is one of great difficulty and of peculiar danger owing to the effect of the atmospheric pressure on the lungs. In order to overcome the evil results of the atmospheric pressure, various forms of apparatus have been devised. (See under Respiratory System, Vol. III.) Although by these means one risk of this operation has been minimized, yet the anatomical difficulties of extirpating a growth in this portion of the oesophagus are still present. The wall of the oesophagus, unlike that of the intestine, cannot be freely excised with any prospect of a successful union of the divided ends. An end-to-end anastomosis by suture is rarely feasible. If sutures are used, they have a tendency-to cut out owing to tension and the constant movement in the thorax. The absence of omentum and, more important still, of a serous coat on the oesophageal wall, are conditions prejudicial to satisfactory union. The total number of reported operations on the oesophagus by thoracotomy is 39 (Meyer). In 21j'cases, resection of a growth was carried out; in 9 cases, exploratory thoracotomy was satisfactorily performed. There were no cases of recovery after resection. This operation will probably only be practicable in the lower portion of the oesophagus. A cone-shaped portion of the stomach wall is drawn up into the thorax and anastomosed to the oesophagus on the proximal side of the growth. This operation, known as ceso-phago-gastrostomy, has been performed by Sauerbruch and, in dogs, by Willy Meyer, who thinks that the operation may have a future if carried out in two stages and conducted in the " positive differential pressure chamber." In the first stage, thoracotomy is performed, and the cone-shaped portion of the stomach brought up and transferred into the thorax through an opening in the diaphragm. In the second stage, two or three weeks later, the growth is resected and the oesophago- gastrostomy completed.