93° THE TESTIS of tlie testis), or, very rarely, into the epididymis. There is always accompanying ecchymosis of the scrotum. Severe contusions of the testis are rare, owing to the mobility of the organ. Symptoms.—The general symptoms are often severe, and include collapse and vomiting. Locally there is severe pain, especially if hjemorrhage is taking place inside the tunica albuginea, with swelling and ecchymosis of the scrotum. Tlie swelLLng in severe cases may extend up the spermatic cord to the internal abdominal ring (hsemato- cele of the spermatic cord). The initial symptoms in slight cases do not last long, and the patient may resume work, but in a few hours orchitis results, and the pain and swelling increase. This orchitis, in which the epididjonis may share, lasts for some days, and is frequently followed by atrophy of the testis. In very severe contusions the tunica albuginea may be ruptured ; marked extravasation of blood into the testis without rupture of the tunica albuginea is very rare. Results.—^Mild injuries are followed by complete recovery, but after severe injuries some amount,of atrophy is the rule and may be complete. Suppuration rarely follows. In a large number of cases of mahgnant disease a history of injury is obtained, but it is doubtful whether there is any direct connexion between the two. Treatment.—After sHght injuries, rest with elevation and sup- port of the scrotum is all that is necessary; but if the pain is severe, an incision to let out the blood is advisable, and a timely incision may possibly in some cases prevent atrophy. Suppuration, if it occur, should be treated by incision and drainage. INCISED WOUNDS Incised wounds require the same treatment as similar wounds in other parts of the body, and have like complications and results. DISEASES OF THE TESTIS INFLAMMATION Inflammation of the testis may be mainly limited to the body (orchitis) or to the epididymis (epididymitis), but in the majority of cases both parts of the organ are affected, and the condition wiU be described under the term epididymo-orchitis. Those cases in which the body of the testis is mainly involved will be indicated after epi- didymo-orchitis has been described. EPIDIDYMO-ORCHITIS Epididymo-orchitis may be divided into acute, subacute, and chronic forms, but a classification on etiological grounds is of more importance. The condition may be caused by—