THE BREAST 70 masses in wliicli no epithelium can be detected. But the fibrosis and cure of the older deposits does not interfere with the process of dissemination or delay the fatal event. Degeneration in carcinoma. — The improvised vascular arrangements of a carcinoma frequently prove insufiicient to meet the needs of the rapidly growing cell masses which fill the meshes of the stroma. Since these masses are themselves avascular, there comes a time when the central cells of each alveolus, cut off from their base of supply, degenerate and die. They may necrose, or liquefy, or change into colloid material. In some cancers these changes are only recognizable by the microscope; in others large visible areas of the tumour are affected. Necrotic changes.^—The greyish appearance which most car- cinomas present on section is probably due to early necrotic changes. In more marked instances, areas of necrotic material are seen as greyish dots upon the cut surface, and exude as plugs resembling sebum when the tumour is compressed. Microscopically, necrotic cells fail to stain, and present a granular homogeneous appearance. Here and there cell outlines may still be recognizable. Liquefaction.—In some carcinomas each fully developed alveolus presents histologically a central cystic cavity, often containing many leucocytes. Occasionally, larger cysts containing clear serous fluid may be formed. Colloid degeneration.—Colloid is a material closely allied to mucus, formed by the degeneration of the epithelium of a carcinoma. At first the stroma does not share this change, but remains unaltered, enclosing spaces filled with clear jelly-like colloid material. In naked- eye specimens, unaltered vessels and areas of tissue which have escaped degeneration may be seen embedded in a translucent mass of colloid. Colloid degeneration can usually only be diagnosed when the breast is cut across, and it has little clinical importance. In the specimens I have seen, the cancer has been usually rather movable and of slow growth, and the patient beyond middle age. The signs dependent upon contraction, such as retraction of the nipple, are usually absent. Calcareous degeneration has been recorded in the more fibroid forms of carcinoma. Pathological classification of the signs of breast cancer.—The signs of breast cancer may be divided into classes :— A. Those dependent upon the presence of the primary growth, and upon its infiltrative tendencies (fixity of the tumour in the breast, adhesion to skin and fascia). B. Those dependent upon permeation and subsequent fibrosis of the lymphatics of the surrounding districts (dimpling of