388 THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM Even when the abdomen has been opened and the stomach exposed it may be impossible to make the diagnosis of malignancy without microscopical examination. It is in these cases that the result of a pre- vious chemical examination of the gastric contents after a test meal may be invaluable. In recorded cases the condition has been diagnosed at the operation as carcinoma and treated by partial gastrectomy, yet subsequent microscopic examination has revealed chronic ulcer only, and a supposed palliative operation has led to complete dis- appearance of the tumour and proved to be curative. Points to be considered are the appearance and feel of the tumour, its method of spread, and affection of lymphatic glands. In carcinoma of the stomach the peritoneum is usually tliickened and opaque, small out- lying patches of the same nature are seen, and the lymphatics are often marked out. The shaggy, red-stippled appearance of the peri- toneum, and the thickening with a depressed centre, seen in chronic gastric ulcer, are rarely present. On palpation, distinct irregular induration may be felt. If there is doubt a portion of the suspected growth should be removed and submitted to rapid microscopical examination. Even in this way it may be impossible to make a definite diagnosis. Treatment.—The treatment of suspected carcinoma is surgical; if the question that a growth is present is raised, valuable time should not be wasted. In the words of Hale White : "If symptoms of serious chronic indigestion first appear after the age of 40, organic disease of the stomach should be strongly suspected, and, if a comparatively short period of medical treatment does not effect a cure, it may be quite justifiable to open the abdomen." Were his advice carried into effect, many patients would be operated upon in the precancerous stage, the percentage of cases found suitable for radical treatment increased, and the ultimate results rendered more favourable than they are at present. The percentage of cases suitable for resection must vary in every clinic, and will become greater as time goes on. As an average the following may be given : In my series of 87 cases, 21 were treated by excision ; these figures almost correspond with those given by Poncet, Delore and Leriche (in 137 cases operated upon excision was performed in 40), and with those from the Breslau cUnic given by Kiittner (102 excisions in 366 cases of carcinoma). Operation should be undertaken in all cases of suspected or proved carcinoma of the stomach, unless obviously inoperable by reason of secondary growths, the surgeon being prepared to do a partial or a complete gastrectomy. The surgical treatment can be summed up shortly : the operation of choice is partial gastrectomy ; in certain cases total gastrectomy may be necessary. Simple fjastro-jejunostomy should only be ferformed