404 THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM Treatment.—The treatment is on the same lines as in external gastric fistulse (p. 402). If spontaneous closure does not occur or delay is inadvisable, gastro-jejunostomy should be performed with simultaneous closure of the pylorus by infolding. This was carried out in Lawford Knaggs' case. GASTRIC OPERATIONS General considerations.—Care must be taken to render the upper part of the alimentary tract as sterile as possible ; the mouth must be attended to, and all septic teeth treated. For twenty-four hours before operation, nothing but sterile milk or Benger's food should be given. If examination gives evidence of gastric stasis, the stomach should be washed out an hour before operation ; if dilata- tion is great, lavage should be employed twice a day for several days before operation is undertaken. When the abdomen has been opened, the whole of the stomach and duodenum must be carefully examined ; then the condition of other organs—particularly the gall-bladder and appendix—investigated. After recovering from the effects of the anaesthetic the patient should be propped up in bed, and nursed as far as possible in this position. When lying down the dorsal position is unnecessary, and the patient may be turned from side to side as desired. Vomiting is unusual, and during the first twenty-four hours the patient should be allowed to drink as much water as he wishes. On the day following operation, milk, Benger's food, bread and milk, and tea can be given, and solid food usually by the second week. For the first week or ten days the patient is better in bed, but he may be allowed up about the tenth day. This rule may be broken without fear of evil conse- quences, if confinement to bed is inadvisable, unless the wound has been allowed to remain open for drainage. An action of the bowels should be obtained by enema the day following operation. GASTRECTOMY Gastrectomy may be described under two headings, partial and complete. The term fartial gastrectomy should be restricted to a definite operation, i.e. removal of the pyloric portion of the stomach together with the whole of the lesser curvature and a varying portion of the greater curvature, never less than its pyloric half. When small portions of the stomach-wall are removed the operation should be called resection. In complete gastrectomy the whole of the stomach is removed, from the duodenum to the oesophagus. Partial Gastrectomy In this operation, when carried out (as it usually is) for malignant disease, in addition to the part of the stomach mentioned above, the