THE INTESTINES 456 witli some danger, and are only to be undertaken when tlie condition is endangering life and there is a reasonable prospect of curing the associated disease. The prospect of being able to cure the fistula is greatest when it has originated in a chronic inflammatory disease of the colon with diverticula, which is now known to be the commonest cause. INJURIES From the chnical point of view, it is convenient to divide injuries of the bowel into (1) those that are subcutaneous, and (2) open wounds —for example, gunshot injuries or stabs. It is by no means uncommon for the intestine and its associated processes of peritoneum to be damaged by external violence without any evidence of injury to the abdominal parietes, and the gravity of the patient's condition only becomes manifest when the effects of the injury declare themselves in the form of peritonitis, or by symptoms of internal haemorrhage. These injuries are often associated with lesions of other viscera, such as rupture of the liver, spleen, or kidney, or intraperitoneal rupture of the bladder. SUBCUTANEOUS INJURIES Etiology.—^For purposes of diagnosis, it is of great assistance to obtain an accurate description of the accident, as the lesion pro- duced depends to a large extent upon the nature, intensity, and direction of the force appUed. Subcutaneous rupture of the intestine may be due to crushing, tearing, or bursting forms of violence. Injuries produced by crushing.—The most common cause of subcutaneous injury to the bowel is the direct impact of a blunt object against the anterior abdominal wall; for example, a kick from a horse, a blow with the fist, or a fall against a projecting object. The intestine, deprived for the moment of the protection of the abdominal muscles, which are taken unawares, is injured by being nipped between the impinging object and the bodies of the vertebrae. The centrally placed coils of small intestine—^that is, those in the vicinity of the umbilicus—are most exposed to such forms of violence, particularly if the force is acting either directly backwards, or obUquely from without inwards. If the force acts in a direction away from the middle-Une—downwards and outwards—the colon is more likely to be injured. Injuries produced by tearing.—If the blow is a glancing one, acting from above, or if the body is squeezed, say, between buffers or by a wheel passing obUquely over it, the more movable segments of the bowel are driven before it, while the fixed portions, particularly the duodeno-jejunal junction, and less frequently the ileo-csecal junction,