405 PARTIAL GASTRECTOMY primary lymphatic glands, the lesser omentum, and as much as pos- sible of the great omentum must be removed, together with about an inch of the duodenum. Closure of the gastric and duodenal cut ends and anastomosis by gastro-enterostomy (Billroth II.) is certainly preferable either to Billroth's original operation of pjdorectomy combined with end-to- end junction (Billroth I., 1881), or to Kocher's modification in which he closed the cut end of the stomach and implanted the open duodenal end into the posterior gastric wall. If sufficient stomach is removed both of these methods are difficult and are liable to permit leakage. After ligaturing and dividing the lesser omentum close to the liver, and the pyloric and gastro-duodenal arteries close to their origin from the hepatic, the operator divides the left gastro- epiploic artery between ligatures, and then inserts liis hand into the lesser sac behind the stomach so as to free it, if necessary, from the pancreas, and to separate the anterior layers of the great omentum from the transverse mesocolon. Care is necessary at this stage to avoid the middle colic artery. Injury to this vessel has resulted in the death of the patient from gangrene and perforation of the transverse colon. The duodenum is then divided between clamps at least an inch beyond the pylorus, and closed with througli-and-through stitches of fine chromic gut, buried by a continuous silk stitch. All the fatty tissue and glands in the angle between the stomach and duodenum must be removed. The coronary artery is then sought at its origin and divided, and all the tissue here removed down to the stomach. The stomach can then be pulled well over to the left. Posterior gastro-jejunostomy should be performed, the stomach removed between two clamps, and the cut end closed in a manner similar to that adopted for the duodenum. The right suprapancreatic glands lying along the hepatic artery should be then sought for and removed. It may be necessary to excise the whole or a portion of the trans- verse colon with the stomach, either because it is invaded by the growth or because its blood-supply is endangered. Hey Groves has suggested that operation in two stages would lower the death-rate. A two-stage operation should only be per- formed in pyloric carcinoma when the condition of the patient is bad, or when the diagnosis is uncertain. A preliminary gastro-jejunostomy is useless if the growth is not producing obstruction. In two cases of my own, after gastro-jejunostomy for early malignant growth of the pylorus, in which the condition of the patient did not justify a one-stage operation, the second stage was refused on account of the great improvement which had taken place, and both patients died within eighteen months.