702 RECTUM AND ANAL CANAL the lower rectum, the sphincters are to be stretched under anaesthesia, and some application made direct to the ulcerated surface. Nitric acid, carbolic acid, or other strong caustic may be applied. Or the ulcer may be curetted and covered with some antiseptic powder, such as iodoform. Hot hip-baths and enemata containing some antiseptic, such as perchloride of mercury, or chinosol, should be given daily. The application of the caustic may have to be repeated. Such treat- ment may succeed in early cases where ulceration is of very limited extent. When, however, the ulceration is higher in the bowel, but still of limited extent, similar treatment may be employed, but is very often attended with complete failure. In fact, rectal ulceration which is at all extensive and long continued is very rarely cured by enemata or direct applications. Zinc cataphoresis.—The principle of this treatment, according to Ironside Bruce, " is that zinc sulphate is broken up by the galvanic current, the zinc ions travel towards the negative pole, and are thus driven into the tissues surrounding the positive pole. The SO4 so liberated combines with the metallic zinc of the positive pole to form again zinc sulphate. The method of application is exceedingly simple. The necessary apparatus is as follows : A zinc rod, 6 in. in length, with suitable connexion at the end for the purpose of attacliing it to the positive pole of a galvanic supply ; a large indifferent electrcde to connect the negative pole. The zinc rod is covered with four layers of lint, which is saturated with a 4 per cent, solution of zinc sulphate (in distilled water). The negative electrode is soaked in plain water to ensure a good contact. The patient being suitably placed, lying on the side, with the aid of a little vaseline as a lubricant the positive pole is introduced in the rectum to a distance well above the ulcerated area. The indifferent electrcde is placed over the sacrum or on the abdomen ; to this is attached the negative pole of the source of the galvanic current, the positive pole being attached to the zinc rod. It is necessary to have a milliamperemeter in circuit. All connexions having been made secure, the circuit is completed, and the resistance cut out until the meter stands at 20 ma. In one or two minutes the amount of current will increase to 25-30 ma., and it is kept at this figure for ten minutes. Such an application is made once every two weeks. This method is quite sufficient where the ulceration is confined to the lower portion of the bowel, but where the disease extends higher up, slightly more complicated apparatus is necessary." This treatment, although of comparatively recent date, seems worthy of a thorough trial. Should it fail, operative measures have to be considered. Excision of the diseased bowel would seem to be the ideal method