HERNIA 6i8 OPERATIVE TREATMENT The principles governing a true radical cure are—(1) complete removal of the sac ; (2) closure of the hernial aperture ; and (3) the production of an unstretchable cicatrix. In some cases the first of these will suffice, but in most cases all three are required, and in a few the last is the most essential. Indications for operation.—Some form of operation is especially indicated in—(1) patients between the ages of 18 months and 65 years ; (2) all wage-earning workmen (in view of the Em- ployers' Liability Act) ; (3) married women, or women about to marry ; (4) patients going out of reach of surgical help ; (5) where the hernia is irreducible ; (6) where there have been signs of strangulation ; (7) where there is a gradual increase in size; (8) where the hernia is associated with an undescended testis ; (9) where a truss, having been worn, no longer controls the hernia. As regards contra-indications, it may be said that since the intro- duction of filigree implantation these have been greatly reduced in number. It is open to question whether the operation is desirable in patients over the age of 65, and the physical condition of the patient must be the determining factor here. In hernias of such gigantic size that the return of the abdominal contents presents a serious risk of paralytic ileus, operation should not be attempted without serious consideration. In cases of heemopliilia, diabetes, albuminuria of pathological origin, and severe anaemia, operation is definitely contra- indicated. Chief factors tending to a successful result.— Although many minor points must be considered, the success of a hernial operation largely depends on observance of the following conditions :— 1. Complete obliteration of the sac and its diverticula. —This is considered by some surgeons to be the chief essential of the operation, and in quite young children it is so to a great extent, but it cannot be admitted in the case of adults. In them the long-con- tinued presence of the hernial contents has widened and stretched the ring, and converted much of the sound muscular tissue into fibrous material. Further, the presence of lateral sacculi, especially in femoral hernia, must be remembered, since, if overlooked, the reappearance of the hernia may be accounted as a recurrence when it is only an evidence of faulty technique. 2. Avoidance of tension in suturing.—Neglect of this pre- caution will result in the rapid cutting out of the deep sutures, the recession of the muscles covering the gap, and the formation of an excess of fibrous cicatrix. 3. Perfect dryness of the wound.—The result of oozing of