DUCT PAPILLOMA 47 The acinous lobules of the affected lobe or lobes, if their ducts are obstructed, develop chronic mastitis, so that the affected lobe is sometimes mapped out as a sector-shaped area of granular induration even before the papillomas in its ducts have given rise to a tumour. The papillomas are soft in consistence and vary greatly in appear- ance. They may be broad-based and short, or attached inside the duct by a constricted narrow base, and giving off elongated processes. They may be closely set within the duct, or sparsely distributed over its surface. They may be minute and impalpable, or of consider- able size. The amount of fluid secreted appears to vary con- siderably. Thus in some cases the duct is distended merely by the growth of the papillomas, and the tumour is practically a solid one. In other cases one or more large, freely fluctuat- ing cysts make their appearance, each containing only one or two papillomas (Fig. 266). The healthy lobes of the breast then appear merely as a small appendage to these cysts. The fluid in the cysts, or exuding from the nipple, is often clear and straw-coloured without cellular elements. If hfemorrhage occurs the fluid takes on a shade of red. In the cysts it exhibits similar gradations, and in the older cysts it may assume a brownish opalescent appearance which is associated with the presence of cholesterin. Microscopical appearances.—The ducts of the breast are lined with a single layer of columnar epithelium. As might be expected, therefore, duct papillomas are composed of vascular branch- ing cores of fibrous tissue covered with epithelium of the columnar type (Pig. 268). Clinical features.—Duct papilloma is usually painless. Pain may, however, occur upon the sudden cessation of serous dis- charge owing to the distension of the ducts by retained secretion. It may be felt at menstruation and at no other time. The patient's attention is attracted either by intermittent discharge, which may be redder and more profuse during menstruation, or by the discovery of a tumour. The evolution of the disease is very slow, and the Fig. 267.—Section through a cystic duct papilloma. {St. Tkoiita^^s Hospital JMiiscuiiu^