THE INTESTINES Treatment.—Before the onset of acute obstructive symptoms, to soften tlie scybalous masses and to lubricate the passage, several ounces of warm olive oil should be introduced into the bowel by means of a soft tube and funnel, and after an interval a large turpentine enema is administered. It is often necessary to break down the hardened masses mechanically, and this is best done under an anaesthetic. The patient is placed in the lithotomy position, the anal sphincter is stretched, and with the gloved hand the scybalous masses are broken down, and then washed out. If there is evidence of stercoral ulceration, great care must be taken that the bowel be not perforated in this procedure. When symptoms of acute obstruction are present, the abdomen must be opened and an artificial anus estabUshed. After the upper bowel has been emptied, the fsecal accumulation may be softened and removed by injections made through the artificial opening as well as by the anus. Surgical treatment of habitual constipation.—Apart from those cases in which habitual constipation culminates in a faecal obstruction of the bowel, attempts have been made to reheve the patient of the discomfort and ill-health induced by the chronic condition of the colon by surgical measures. The separation of adhesions between the colon and the parietes or adjacent viscera, which interfere mechanically with the peristaltic action of the bowel, is often followed by marked improvement. Mansell-Moullin has suggested and practised ileo-colostomy with some degree of success, but this operation is not always feasible, and has not proved very satisfactory. Complete excision of the colon has been advocated by Arbuthnot Lane, the ileum being connected with the rectum, either by end-to-end suture or by lateral anastomosis. In a certain number of cases it has been found that habitual con- stipation has been due to an hypertrophied condition of the rectal valves of Houston, and that removal of these thickened folds of mucous membrane by means of the Imife or cautery has effected a cure of the condition. POSTOPERATIVE OBSTRUCTION This term is here used in relation to that form of acute obstruction which is an immediate and direct result of operation, and is mainly due to paralysis of the intestine. Obstruction due to strangulation by bands or to other mechanical effects of peritoneal adhesions resulting from a previous operation is described elsewhere (pp. 478, 480). After abdominal operations, the bowel may become distended with gas, which the patient is unable to expel, either on account of a spasm