770 THE PANCREAS cholecystenterostomy. This latter operation is desirable, if possible, and may even sometimes prove of benefit in malignant disease. If a satisfactory anastomosis be found very difficult, external drainage should be substituted. When painless jaundice is the only symptom, operation should be deferred for at least six weeks to give time for spontaneous clearance, lest the jaundice be only catarrhal. If there be merely attacks of pain confidently attributable to pancreatic involve- ment, operation is necessary, for the attacks may proceed from gall-stones or pancreatic calculi. If tliere be no removable gross lesion, it is a moot point whether anything further than simple laparotomy can be of service, though some recommend routine chole- cystenterostomy. When a general failure of health or glycosuria can be traced to pan- creatic involvement, without an acute onset or without any enlarge- ment of the organ, surgical intervention is to be avoided. SYPHILIS AND TUBERCULOSIS Syphilis rarely affects the pancreas. It may take the form of an indurative pancreatitis or of a gumma. Isolated gummata have been recorded sufficiently often to justify administration of iodide and mercury in any case of irremovable pancreatic tumour, without unequivocal signs of cancer. Tuberculosis is equally rare, but may occur in the miliary form, or as an isolated tuberculoma. PANCREATIC CYSTS Classification.—Cysts of the pancreas may be classified as follows :— 1. True cysts. Acinous.—(i) Retention cysts; (ii) Cystadenomas, (a) multilocular, (h) papillomatous, (c) congenital cystic. Interacinous.—(i) Lymphatic, (ii) Parasitic. 2. Pseudo-cysts. Intraperitoneal.—Inflammatory effusions into lesser sac, (a) the result of injury, (h) secondary to pancreatitis. Retroperitoneal.—Tlie result of (i) old haemorrhage or necrosis of pancreas, (ii) breaking down of a new growth. Donoghue has drawn attention to certain parapancreatic cysts which spring from the neighbourhood of the tail and probably originate in the remains of the Wolffian body. Pathology.—Of the true cysts, those due to retention are the commonest. For the most part, they have been observed post mortem, and have presented no symptoms during life. Though usually the size of an orange, they may be as large as a man's head, or even attain enormous proportions necessitating surgical interference. The obstruction is in most cases a consequence of chronic interstitial pan- creatitis.