CARCINOMA OF THE COLON 535 a fistulous communication between the intestine above and that beyond the cancer has temporarily relieved an obstruction. Fistulte may also form between the colon and the bladder. I have observed two cases in which flatus was passed with the urine ; in one this con- tinued for about a fortnight, and then ceased, and did not recur during the fifteen months the patient survived; post-mortem the opening was found occluded by cicatricial tissue apparently due to peritonitic adhesions. Similar fistulse may also form with the urethra, the vagina, or the skin. Intussusception is occasionally induced, and kinking of the bowel may occur and lead to acute obstruction. Differential diagnosis.—In the absence of acute obstructive symptoms, the diagnosis of cancer of the colon does not present great difhculty. It is to be borne in mind that in the colon cancer occurs at an earlier age than in most other situations. Many of the patients appear to be in good general health, and show no sign of what is spoken of as a cancerous cachexia. This cachectic condition only ensues in the terminal stages of the disease when the diagnosis is no longer in doubt. The conditions that have to be borne in mind when the symptoms are referred to the region of the ctecum are ileo-csecal tuberculosis, enteroUth, and inflammatory swelhngs originating in the appendix ; in the region of the ascending colon and hepatic flexure, affections of the right kidney, the liver and gall-bladder, the stomach and pylorus, and the omentum ; in the splenic flexure and descending colon, affections of the left kidney and spleen ; in the pelvic colon, diseases of the uterine appendages, fibromatosis of the colon, and fsecal accumulation. When symptoms of acute obstruction are present, apart from the history, there is nothing characteristic of cancerous stricture, and all other causes of obstruction have to be considered. It is often impossible to arrive at a diagnosis without opening the abdomen. Treatment.—As the disease remains for a considerable time confined to the bowel and is slow to implicate the mesenteric glands, a radical operation, if undertaken before there is much distension of the bowel above the stricture and before obstructive symptoms have appeared, affords a considerable prospect of permanent cure. The radical operation consists in removing the affected segment, as well as several inches of the bowel above and below it, together with the lymphatic vessels draining the bowel, the glands into which these lymphatics open, and the connective tissue in which they he. The continuity of the tube is re-established either by end-to-end suture or by lateral anastomosis. AVith the patient in the Trendelenburg position, an incision is made which will give free access to the tumoiir. To enable the ends to be brought together without tension, it is