8o THE BREAST In deciding whether to operate upon an atrophic scirrhus an especially careful general examination must be made, for the growth may have been present for years and dissemination may have made progress before the mammary signs led the patient to seek advice. Sometimes a spontaneous fracture of the femur, a deposit in the spine, or the presence of an abdominal, pelvic, or hepatic tumour may be the first obvious sign of an atrophic carcinoma of the breast, or of a tumour of some size embedded in a voluminous mamma. If a tumour is detected in a woman of middle age, whatever its situation, the breasts must be carefully examined for signs of carcinoma. Peripheral carcinoma—A carcinoma of the breast may commence in some outlying lobule apparently quite separate from the main body of the gland. The possibility that these outlying growths may begin in a supernumerary mamma must not be over- looked. The prognosis of peripheral carcinoma is worse than that of the more central variety. A peripheral growth is likely to be separated from the pleural cavity by a relatively thin protective layer of muscles, as compared, for instance, with a growth which overlies the great pectoral. Consequently the growth early becomes adherent to the chest wall, and therefore inoperable. Moreover, operations for peri- pheral carcinoma in the past have nearly always violated the rule, deduced by the writer from the permeation theory, that the primary growth must form the centre of the field of operation and of the area of tissue removed. The observance of tliis rule is of cardinal importance in these outlying growths. The case of peripheral scirrhus represented in Fig. 279 was that of a female aged about 65. Situated accurately in the middle line, just above the ensiform cartilage, at the point to which the lower contours of the mammae converge, was an irregular ulcer, about an inch in average diameter, with a sloughy base, and hard, irregular, raised edges surrounded by sub- cutaneous induration. The whole mass, whicli could be covered by a florin, was firmly adherent to the underlying sternum, which, however, was not exposed in the floor of the ulcer. The situation of the lesion suggested a gumma. This, however, was excluded by the absence of suppuration, by the fact that bone was not exposed, by the absence of a syphilitic history, and above all by the presence in both axillae of hard enlarged glands of the type familiar in carcinoma. The median situation of the growth had led to simultaneous invasion of the axillary glands on both sides. Acute cancer of the breast {mastitis carcinomatosa, hraiony cancer). — The most acute form of breast cancer is found only in women below middle age, and usually of florid aspect. It is accom- panied by an erythematous blush of the sldn over the tumour. It generally develops during lactation, though it may also occur in virgins. All the signs of inflammation are present. The whole breast