38o THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM Gastric Carcinoma arises most often as the result of direct exten- sion from the pancreas, colon, or gall-bladder, or from the oesophagus. In this group must also be placed those cases, by no means im- common, following carcinoma of the breast. It may be secondary to carcinoma of the upper ahmentary tract (auto-inoculation). More rarely still does it arise as a metastasis. Primary carcinoma of the stomach may be composed of spheroidal or cylindrical cells ; either may undergo colloid degeneration. If the fibrous stroma is abundant, the adjective " scirrhus " is applied; if small in amount, the growth is known as a " medullary " or " en- cephaloid " carcinoma. In sfheroidal-celled carcinoma the cells resemble those of the gastric tubules ; this variety is more than twice as common as the cylindrical or columnar-celled (Perry and Shaw, Fenwick), and is the usual type of " malignant ulcer." It was found by Fenwick to be " hard " in 19 out of 41 cases. " Colloid " carcinoma—the result of a mucoid or colloid degeneration which, though usually affecting the cells, may affect the stroma as well—is found in about 7 per cent, of cases. Neither form has a special preference for any portion of the stomach, but the columnar-celled variety is most common in the pyloric region, where it usually springs as a soft red fungoid growth. Either form may infiltrate the whole organ (" leather-bottle" stomach), rendering it small in the spheroidal- celled variety, rarely diminishing its size in the columnar. (Fig. 386.) Situation.—The older authorities were of opinion that 60 per cent, of all gastric cancers are situated at the pylorus. But modern observations show that the percentage is not so great as this; Boas, in 125 cases, found the pylorus affected in 34 (27 per cent.), while in 87 cases upon which I have operated the growth was on the lesser curvature in 52. The cardiac end is affected in 9-8 per cent. (Fenwick). Growths are occasionally multiple ; in most of the recorded cases they have been on opposed surfaces of the viscus. Carcinoma commences in the deeper layers of the mucous mem- brane ; if at the edge of an ulcer, it is usually in that edge nearest the pylorus. Method of spread—This may be direct, in the stomach itself or to adjacent organs immediately or through adhesion ; or indirect, by lymphatics or by blood-vessels. Cancer in the stomach tends to spread along the lesser curvature, and, as first pointed out by Roldtansky, rarely affects the duodenum. Although Brinton found the duodenum involved in 10 out of 125 cases, this high percentage has not been borne out by later observers; thus, in 131 cases, Fenwick found this structure involved in 2 only. However, as the result of microscopic examination of 63 specimens