428 THE INTESTINES that the food passed out of the stomach normally, and was carried along the duodenum. When it reached the obstruction, powerful peri- staltic waves followed each other in quick succession and hurled the contents against the barrier. As the intra-intestinal pressure rose, some of the fluid was squirted back through the narrowed lumen of the contracted portion by peristalsis. In tliis way, part of the contents might reach back to the pylorus, and so enter the stomach, without the occurrence of any antiperistaltic waves. In a second experiment, in wliich he stopped the progress of intestinal peristalsis by reversing one of the uppermost loops of the jejunum, antiperistaltic waves apparently occurred and carried the food back to the pylorus. Griitzner administered enemata of saline solution in which were suspended starch grains, charcoal, lycopodium and other substances, and he recovered these particles from the stomach and small intestine. Such a result can only be explained by the occurrence of antiperistalsis. When the intestine is paralysed, as in general peritonitis, it is difficult to conceive that one movement—^that of antiperistalsis— should remain when the other movements are lost. In these cases, the " faecal " vomiting is associated with distension of the bowel, the contents of wliich are decomposing and evolving gases that increase the pressure in the canal. This pressure may become so extreme that the bowel is kept from bursting only by the resistance of the abdominal wall. Hence, at any given point of the bowel, the contents will pass in the direction of least resistance. At the lower end of the ileum is the ileo-csecal sphincter, which, we know, may be tightly contracted although no movements are occurring in the rest of the small intestine. If, as is probable, ic is in the same condition in general peritonitis, then the accumulating gases and the copious secretion which they as irritants induce must gradually force their way upwards and fuially reach the stomach, from which the gases are got rid of by frequent eructations and the liquids by vomiting. The results following the administration of enemata in advanced general peritonitis favour the theory that the ileo-csecal sphincter is strongly contracted. Once the colon has been cleared, the injected fluid is returned unaccompanied by any intestinal contents, although imder normal conditions part of the enema reaches the small intestine and empties its lower coils. In cases of strangulated hernia, the same explanation of " faecal " vomiting is possible, because often it does not begin till all pain has ceased, and the distension of the intestine is extreme. Movements of the Colon Antiperistalsis is the most frequent movement in the caecum, and in the ascending and transverse colon. As soon as food enters