THE TONGUE i88 mercury better, and are much less liable to stomatitis and ulceration, than those whose mouths are septic and unhealthy. The ulcers are multiple, shallow, and irregular in outline, surrounded by a red area, but not so defined as the dyspeptic variety; they may lead to extensive sloughing. The tongue as a whole is swollen, showing indentations from the teeth at its sides, the breath is foul, there is profuse salivation, the gums are swollen, spongy, and retracted from "the teeth, which are loose in their sockets. Such a picture is seldom difficult of diagnosis. Treatment.—Give a saline purge, and prescribe chlorate of potash, 10 gr. every four hours for two days {see above). Order astringent mouth-washes, sulphate of iron, or acetic alum (E. Lane). Nitrate of silver is of value, and for the salivation belladonna may be prescribed. Tuberculous, syphilitic, and malignant ulcers will be considered specially in the sections on Tuberculosis {see below). Syphilitic Diseases (p. 191), and Malignant Tumours (p. 204). TUBEECULOSIS The present advanced state of our knowledge of the manifesta- tions of tuberculous disease attacking the tongue is largely due to Butlin's writings, and his descriptions and opinions are closely followed in the ensuing section. In the past many of these cases were mistaken for malignant disease, and no doubt in a few in- stances they were successfully subjected to operative treatment and a permanent cure of cancer was claimed. The systematic examination of all ulcers and tumours removed has shown us that the tongue, like other tissues of the body, is sub- ject to tuberculous invasion, and in the diagnosis of difficult cases it has given us valuable information, and occasionally unpleasant surprises. Tuberculosis attacks the tongue either as a primary infection of the subepithelial tissues, the bacilli reaching the part from the blood- stream or by means of infected food ; or as a secondary complication of tuberculous disease of the lung or alimentary canal, the tongue then being infected by the sputum. When we think of the rarity of tuber- culous disease in this region, as compared with its frequency elsewhere, and the constant exposure of the lingual surface to infected sputum in tuberculous subjects, we are forced to the conclusion that the tongue possesses special powers of resistance ; probably, unless there is some breach in the surface epithelium, secondary infection of the organ does not occur. The diagnosis of the tuberculous nature of a lingual ulcer is facili- tated by the discovery of signs of pulmonary disease.