666 RECTUM AND ANAL CANAL allantois, the postallantoic gut, a new formation entirely separated from the cloaca, but without an external opening at this stage. At the site of the future perineum, ventral to the termination of the postallantoic gut, the epiblast becomes thickened, constituting the anal plug. This thickening soon breaks down, and the anal pit or prododceum is formed. The proctodaeum meets the termination of the postallantoic gut towards its ventral surface, the two being separated by a thin membrane, which later disappears. The very short portion of the postallantoic gut dorsal and posterior to its fusion with the proctodaeum disappears. The cloaca forms no part of the rectum, but early becomes separated from it. The cloaca, receiving the openings of the genital ducts, becomes, in the male, the trigone of the bladder and the urethra to just below the openings of the genital ducts, that is, to just beyond the verumontanum. In the female, the Miillerian ducts open into the cloaca between the allantois anteriorly, and the original aperture of the hind-gut posteriorly. Later, the ducts migrate to the posterior part of the body, and their communications with the cloaca become lost. The vagina is for a great part of foetal life a solid structure and not a canal, but later the Miillerian ducts tunnel a passage through this to the hind-end of the embryo. The cloaca becomes the trigone of the bladder, the urethra, and the space between the labia minora. Thus the rectum and anal canal consist of three developmental portions— (1) the hind-gut, (2) the postallantoic gut, and (3) the proctodaeum. The posterior limit of the body cavity serves to mark the junction of the hind-gut and the postallantoic gut. This point in the fully developed body is at the reflexion of the peritoneum from the rectum to the bladder or the vagina. The posterior limit of the postallantoic gut is the level of tlie anal sinuses. The proctodaeum forms the anal canal below this level. ^ Keith explains the abnormalities by comparative anatomy and physiology. " Above all," he says, " the process of impregnation has to be kept in mind, for it was by the evolution of the penis that the rectum attained an opening on the perineum." The cloaca of the frog is represented in the mammal by the trigone of the bladder and the urethra ; it is a passage that conveys the urine, genital products, and faeces to their destination. The faeces have no lodgment there. The rectum opens higher up than the urinary and genital ducts. Rarely in the human subject does the rectum open into the trigone of the bladder, and this exactly reproduces the amphibian form. In the tortoise and turtle the rectal orifice has moved along the dorsal wall of the cloaca nearer the tail than the genital and urinary ducts, i.e. exactly in the position where the abnormal rectum commonly ends in the human subject, in the urethra just beyond the verumontanum. The termination of the rectum as a fibrous cord on the base of the prostate represents a stage of arrest in passing from the amphibian to the tortoise form. In the tortoise and turtle the cloaca is becoming modified for sexual purposes, and is less • capable of serving as a faecal passage, and hence its orifice has moved nearer to the perineum. In Monotremes the sexual modifications are carried further, the rectum opening into that part of the cloaca derived from the ingrowth of ectoderm, the endodermal cloaca becoming the urino-genital sinus. During the evolution of the higher vertebrates the anus has migrated from an intracloacal to an extracloacal or perineal position. The various forms of malformation represent arrested stages of migration. According to Keith, both the external and internal sphincter muscles are ^ This description follows that which is given by F. Wood-Jones, and is the only one which will satisfactorily explain the various malformations.