MAMMARY CANCER 93 After-treatment.—It is my practice to confine the arm to the side until the incision is healed, leaving the forearm and hand free to move. Some operators prefer to fix the upper arm in an abducted position to prevent subsequent binding of the arm to the side—a danger which, in my experience, need not be feared if, after the healing of the incision, a course of massage is applied to the skin of the thorax. The abducted position tends to increase tension in the flaps, and thus to interfere with healing. In every case, as soon as the wound is healed, a prophylactic course of X-rays must be applied to the thorax, axilla, and supraclavicular region—a precaution which I believe to be imperative. Four cases only of recurrence in the skin have come under notice in my series of operations, of which three were those of patients who had not undergone a prophylactic course of X-rays (the percentage of my patients who escape a prophylactic X-ray course is a very small one). After the operation for breast cancer a prolonged course of open-air treatment should be advised. If the patient will not consent to this, she should, at any rate, live as much in tlie open air as possible. A sea voyage may be of advantage. Plastic operations in cancer of the breast.—Much ingenuity has been expended by surgeons in devising plastic flaps to fill the gap left after removal of a cancer of the breast (Jackson's, Tansini's). These operations are unnecessary, for, if an adequate area of the deep fascia be removed, and if ablation of the skin be not pushed to the point of imnecessary sacrifice, difficulty in bringing the flaps together is rare ; it is only met with in thin women with ill-developed chests. Immediate skin-grafting by Thiersch's method is the best solution of the difficulty. Plastic methods are not only unnecessary, they are also dangerous, for the tissues utilized to form the flap are frequently situated witliin the area of possible cancerous infection. Cause of death in breast cancer.—Although dissemina- tion is the rule, a cancer of the breast may run its course without producing secondary deposits. The disease makes slow progress until the viscera are attacked. When visceral involvement declares itself, the patient has usually but a few months to live. The patient may die from general dissemination, from exhaus- tion, from septic absorption, from deposits in the brain, from pleural and pericardial effusions, from ascites, from paraplegia due to spinal deposits, and in rare cases as the direct result of bleeding from the ulcerated growth. Intercurrent diseases, especially pneumonia and ery- sipelas, are responsible for a certain number of deaths. The average duration of life after the appearance of the growth is stated by Campiche and Lazarus-Barlow to be about four years.