NEURALGIA OF THE TESTIS 949 of the neuralgia is necessary. In other cases relief of the pain does not follow the treatment of the underlying condition, or there may be no apparent organic lesion in the testis. The prognosis in these cases is not good, as the condition is very rebellious to treatment, wliich is mainly empirical. Relapses after apparent cure are common. During the attacks of pain the patient should be put at rest in the horizontal position and the testis be supported by a suspensory bandage. Local application of cold or heat should be tried, or mild counter-irritation of the scrotum employed. In severe attacks it is necessary to give morphia to relieve the pain ; quinine and aconite have been employed for the same purpose. Firm pressure of the spermatic cord against the symphysis pubis for fifteen minutes has been followed by relief of pain. The general health should be considered, and especially the ques- tion of sexual hygiene, as some cases are dependent either upon sexual excesses and irregularities or upon sexual continence. Operative treatment—The operative treatment, other than relieving any obvious pathological condition, consists in removal of the testis. Its advisability is doubtful. Cases are recorded by the older writers, such as Cooper, Curling, and Blizard, but the results were not all satisfactory. In some of tlie cases in wliich relief followed, tlie testis was the seat of obvious disease and the operation was justifi- able ; but when no lesion exists, removal of the testis has been followed by recurrence of the pain in the spermatic cord or even in the other testis. Castration may therefore be recommended if an obvious lesion of the testis is present, which cannot be remedied in any other way ; but if no lesion exists the operation is unlikely to effect a cure. In all cases the patient should be warned of the uncertainty of relief following castration. SPERMATORRHCEA This term implies a frequent escape of seminal fluid at other times than during a sexual orgasm. As a pathological condition, if it exists, it is exceedingly rare. Escape of seminal fluid not infrequently occurs during defajcation, especially if there is much straining at stool with the passage of hard faeces. It occurs in men who lead a conti- nent life, and is a purely mechanical effect, the foecal mass squeezing against the contents of the seminal vesicles, which are between the rectum and the bladder. It is a perfectly natural and harmless phenomenon. Spermatozoa may also be found in the urine wliich is first passed after coitus or an emission. Patients who have for a long time indulged in sexual excesses or masturbation not infrequently increase the irritability of the sexual organs to such an extent that emission takes place on very slight