2l8 THE TONGUE One point in the figures supplied by Kettle is very striking, and that is the rarity of anything like general dissemination. Out of 33 cases, distant dissemination was noticed only in 5 :— Axilla and bronchial glands . . . . .1 Spleen ......... 1 Lung ......... 1 Lung and pleura, 4th rib . . . .1 Cutaneous nodules over clavicle .... 1 It may be argued that patients with lingual cancer die before the period of general dissemination is reached, these cases thus differing from cases of mammary cancer ; but it is certainly strildng that in 40 per cent, of fatal cases the glands on both sides of the neck are afiected, and it suggests the lines on which further research is needed and along which operations should proceed. 4. The amount of lingual tissue to be removed.— By the ordinary intrabuccal operation of Whitehead only that portion of the tongue that is covered with mucous membrane, or little more, is removed ; and, as Cheatle very truly says, the tongue does not merely consist of the part that is visible in the mouth, but of a con- siderable extrabuccal portion extending to the hyoid bone. It would be regarded as an example of the most imperfect surgery if a surgeon were locally to excise a carcinoma of the breast or a carcinoma of the cervix uteri ; and so, in cases of lingual cancer, the entire half of the tongue must be removed down to the hyoid bone in cases where the growth is situated laterally, the entire organ when situated centrally. As can be seen from Plate 88, the growth spreads along the lymph spaces in the hyo-glossus and genio-hyo-glossus muscles, in- ferior lingualis, and stylo-glossus, and therefore every fart of the affected muscle must he cleared axvay in as systematic a manner as the great pectoral is removed in carcinoma mammse. There is a further important detail: Cheatle's specimens show the presence of glands between the fibres of the hyo-glossus, and dissemination of cancer cells in the lymph spaces of the submucosa for a considerable distance away from the primary focus, and such evidence proves the risk of partial operations in any but very early cases. In cancer of the tip of the tongue the spread of the disease, as shown in the diagram of the lymphatics (Plate 86), is through the genio-hyoids, and these muscles, together with the fascia covering them, must he removed. It has been urged that in all cases the whole tongue should be excised, but I am quite unable to agree with this suggestion. As has been shown, the tendency of the growth is to spread along