TAXIS IN STRANGULATED HERNIA 645 When a hernia which is irreducible or strangulated is subjected to forcible manipulation with a view to its reduction, certain displace- ments of the sac or of its contents may result; these displacements, Imown as " reduction en masse," may be thus enumerated :— (1) The whole sac with its mireduced contents may be displaced upwards—(i) subcutaneously between the skin and the abdominal wall; (ii) interstitially between the internal and external obHque muscles (Fig. 467), or between the transversalis muscle and the peritoneum (properitoneal) (Fig. 468) ; (iii) behind the iliac peritoneum, cascum, or sigmoid (retrojDeritoneal). (2) The sac may be ruptured circularly at the neck and the contents forced into any of the above positions, the body and fundus remaining behind (Fig. 469). (3) The sac may be ruptured laterally and the contents forced through the rent either interstitially as above, or simply into the scrotum (Fig. 470). (4) The contents may be forced from the main sac to a lateral diverticulum (Fig. 471). (.5) The contents may be forced through a rent in the omentum and the whole reduced into the abdomen, the sac remaining beliind (Fig. 472). (6) The bowel may be reduced across an adhesion at the neck of the sac (Fig. 474). 2. The bowel may be torn across at the neck of the sac (Fig. 473), general peritonitis rapidly terminating the case. 3. Short of rupture, serious ha3morrhage may be produced in the sac ; or such bruising may take place that gangrene rapidly supervenes. " Reduction en masse " is thus a very serious condition, since it suggests for the moment that reduction has been correctly performed, although an irreducible hernia may have been converted into a strangu- lated one, while a strangulated hernia may be allowed to persist. When suspected, the only possible treatment is immediate laparotomy. The possibihty of the occurrence of " reduction en masse"' should be thought of where a very sudden reduction effected under considerable pressure is accompanied by sharp pain, and is followed by persistence of the signs of strangulation, or by those of general peritonitis. The mortaUty of operation in such cases is, of course, very high. In very early cases it may be possible to assist taxis by placing the patient in the Trendelenburg position, and applying an ice-bag for some time before the attempt is made ; or by the use of ether apphed drop by drop to the swelling. These methods may reduce the volume of gases in the intestine and diminish the congestion to some extent, but on the other hand there is the danger of producing thrombosis in the constricted vessels. In any case, time is thus lost.