EXAMINATION OF THE TONGUE 167 A metal or glass tongue-depressor should be at hand, and lip- retractors are required in a difficult case. If the tongue be foul and covered with fur or adherent sloughs, these should be gently wiped away with cotton-wool swabs steeped in weak carbolic acid (1-60), or the surface of the tongue can be dried by pressing a strip of white blotting-paper over it—a pro- ceeding which brings out more clearly some of the pathological conditions met with. Palpation is of special value in detecting the characteristic indura- tion of malignant disease, the nodular hardness of a primarv chancre, and the local tenderness of an abscess ; it is advisable to protect the finger with a glove or finger-stall. Histological and bacteriological examination supplement the former procedures. These methods are specially required in the case of doubtful ulcers, of which a piece—not too small—should be removed and examined microscopically. If too small a piece is re- moved the examination will be very unsatisfactory, and an eiiort should be made to obtain some of the adjacent apparently healthv tissue, since tliis will show in a more convincing manner the spread of any malignant epithelial cells. Bacteriological investigation is required in some of the parasitic diseases, diphtheria and thrush, and abscess. Stress must be laid on the following points :— 1. It is not easy to obtain fluctuation in many cases of abscess. 2. The ulceration which occurs around a calculus impacted in Wharton's duct is easily mistaken for malignant ulceration. 3. Inflammatory conditions in the submaxillary gland may be confused with acute glossitis. 4. When an ulcer is acutely tender it should be painted with some 1 per cent, cocaine solution before palpation is practised. MALFORMATIONS ABSENCE OF THE TONGUE Several cases of so-called absence of the tongue have been recorded, but in each instance the case seems to have been one of suppressed development of the tuberculum impar rather than actual absence of the organ. In such cases the anterior portion of the organ is small and rudimentary, and is moreover firmly fixed to the floor of the mouth, rendering free movement impossible. The base is always present and apparently normal. In a case seen by me the above con- dition was associated with arrested development of the lower jaw, the whole bone being small and imderhimg. As in other recorded cases of the deformity, the speech was intelligible.