MODIFIED KOCHER'S OPERATION so as to cover up the carotid and jugular vein, and tlie skiri wound is partially closed. vii. Half the tongue is excised from the moutli after White- head's method, the division of the muscles previously mentioned making it an easy matter to complete a free removal. There is no bleeding. viii. I make it a point that the mouth and neck wounds should freely communicate with one another, so that I feel more certain that no " intervening " tissue has been left behind. The wound is packed with iodoform gauze. ix. Enlarged glands on the opposite side are removed at a second operation. I am quite satisfied with the procedure in cases where only half the tongue has to be excised. It seems sound and adequate ; there is ;rio trouble with the wound in the neck, if sufficient care has been <'xereised in cleaning the mouth beforehand ; and I have not found that it puts the recuperative power of patients to any severe test. On the other hand, if both sides of the neck have to be attacked in more advanced cases, and the whole tongue has to be excised, the risk is very much greater ; but, in my opinion, it remains the best procedure for dealing with carcinoma of the tongue. Whether the mortality which follows its employment will be so high as to render it unjustifiable remains as yet to be seen. Cheatle lays considerable stress on leaving the wounds widely open so that free drainage is obtained. He does not dissect the glands below the omo-hyoid at the time of the main operation, but defers that step, if required, until a later date. The great dangers of the operation, apart from septic pneumonia, are sloughing, cellulitis, and secondary hsemorrhage; but covering the wound surface with sterile vaseline, as suggested by Upcott of Hull for operations on the tonsil, might possibly be of service in preventing cellular infection. I have been very pleasantly surprised to find how kindly these neck wounds heal, but I spend seven or eight days in preliminary cleaning of the mouth. .3. Syme's operation.—This operation is practically identical with that now performed by Professor Kocher. It consists essentially in dividing the soft tissues in the middle line from the lip to the hyoid bone, and sawing through the mandible so as to gain access to the mouth and hyoid regions. Kocher operates with the patient in the Trendelenburg position, but the operation can be efficiently performed if the head and shoulders are. raised and held forwards as in operations upon the tonsils and throat. If it be desired, lateral incisions may be carried outwards from the lower termination of the vertical incisions, and flaps caii be P