954 SPERMATIC CORD complicated by the presence of cysts of the epididymis, hydrocele of the cord, or hernia. Complications, (a) Rupture.—Tliis may be traumatic or spontaneous ; in the latter case it may occur while the patient is quietly resting, and is probably due to the giving way of one of the finger-like processes described above, or of the wall at the site of a previous tapping. There is a sharp sudden pain, followed by alteration in the condition of the scrotum, the definite cystic swelling changing to a difEuse cedematous condition, often with evidence of blood extravasa- tion. The penis, prepuce, and the other half of the scrotum usually become swollen. The pain, as a rule, steadily increases, and causes the patient to seek relief. Spontaneous cure, suppuration, or recur- rence of the hydrocele may follow. (b) Inflammation and suppuration.—These terminations are rare, and are usually due to definite injury, although this is not absolutely necessary. (c) Transformation into haematocele may be due to either tapping or injury, or may occur spontaneously and insidiously. Treatment.—Treatment may be palliative by tapping, or cura- tive by radical operation. Treatment by injection of various irritants into the sac is obsolete. Tapping.—A hydrocele may be tapped as often as it becomes inconvenient on account of its size. The position of the testis should always be ascertained before tapping, either by marking its position when the translucency test is applied, or in the case of small hydroceles by feeling it. The skin of the scrotum is cleaned in the manner usual for all operations, and drawn tensely over the swelling with one hand whilst with the other the aseptic trocar and cannula is plunged through it into the cyst, the puncture being usually made in front, but always away from the testis. Care should be taken to avoid any superficial scrotal veins. The fluid is then drawn off, the cannula removed, and the small puncture closed with a little collodion. In a few cases no recurrence follows tapping, but as a rule it has to be repeated at intervals. Radical cure.—This can be advised in all cases except when the patient is elderly or debilitated in health, and it is usually com- pletely successful, though recurrence has been recorded. Two opera- tions are advised, and it is immaterial which is chosen—(a) excision of the tunica vaginalis lining the scrotum, or (b) inversion of the sac. (a) Excision of the tunica vaginalis lining the scrotum.—It is doubtful if the old division into a parietal and a visceral layer of the tunica vaginalis can be maintained. Some authorities consider that the body of the testis is uncovered by a serous membrane, but that the organ projects into the cavity of the tunica vaginalis in the same way that