176 THE TONGUE bacteria and particles of liorse-dung. Ansemia and constant use of the voice seem to be predisposing causes. The symptoms are practically those of a quinsy ; there is special pain on swallowing, together with an unpleasant feeling of sufioca- tion, and, from the situation of the inflammatory process, there is considerable risk of laryngeal obstruction. On examination with the laryngeal mirror the base of the tongue is seen to be swollen and congested. In many cases the acute symptoms subside, leaving, however, a mass of swollen lymphoid tissue, the crypts of which are often dis- tended with inspissated secretion ; in others an abscess forms, which is not always confined to a folUcle (follicular abscess), but may burrow into the tongue substance and form a purulent collection of considerable size. Treatment.—In the milder forms a mercurial purge, and mouth-washes of chlorate of potash, followed by 10-gr. doses of salicylate of quinine every four hours, will effect a cure. In the more severe cases, if an abscess forms, it must be opened carefully with a curved knife, the patient sitting with the head hanging down so that the risk of the pus finding its way into the larynx is avoided. At a later date, if concretions form in the epithelial crypts, they should be removed, and the walls of the crypt and follicle destroyed by the cautery; or if there is general hypertrophy of the whole lymphoid mass it may be removed by a special tonsillotome. 5. ABSCESS A lingual abscess may be acute or chronic, and owe its origin to a number of different causes. It may follow wounds of the tongue, especially those in which a foreign body becomes included in the lingual substance ; it may be due to infection from carious teeth, without any very obvious breach in the integrity of the mucous membrane ; or it may result from the acute infections previously described under the head of Glossitis. Acute abscess is characterized by a gradual onset, accompanied by pain in the tongue and often also in the ear. On examination, a tender swelling can be felt in the substance of the tongue, but fluctuation can seldom if ever be detected. Chronic abscess is much rarer than the acute, and is due to organisms of low virulence wliich do not excite a violent inflammatory reaction ; it is not necessarily tuberculous, but it may follow the secondary infection of a tubercular or gummatous area. The development is very slow and is tmaccompanied by any marked pain, and the con- dition is very likely to be mistaken for a gumma. Treatment consists in incision, care being taken that the pus