928 THE TESTIS TOESION OF THE SPEEMATIC CORD (AXIAL ROTATION OF THE TESTIS) Torsion of tlie spermatic cord (Fig. 562) is associated with develop- mental errors of attachment of the epididymis and the common mesen- tery to the testis, and these errors are more frequently found in the imperfectly descended organ than in one normally placed in the scrotum. The rotation usually takes place at the globus minor, and is of such a nature that the testis is inverted and the globus major and hydatid are found below. The twist may be half a turn, but as many as four turns have been de- scribed. Although this condition is always associated with errors of develop- ment, the exciting cause of the rotation is unknown, some cases occurring during violent exercise, others during sleep. CHnically, the cases may be divided into acute and recurring. Acute Torsion Symptoms.—The patient, usually the subject of an imperfectly descended testis, is suddenly seized with violent pain in the groin, vomits, and becomes collapsed, the symptoms and physical signs closely, resembling those of acute strangulated hernia. In the groin a firm, tender, oval lump is felt, wliich cannot be separated from the abdomen, and wliich has no impulse on coughing. The scrotum on the side of the lump is empty, and the skin usually red and cedematous. Fluid, which is generally blood-stained, may be found in the vaginal cavity. Results.—If the testis be removed and examined it wiU show extreme congestion, extravasation of blood into every part, and a purple or black colour. This extravasation of blood destroys the testicular substance, so that atrophy, wliich may be complete, always follows. In a few cases the organ becomes infected with the colon bacillus, and suppuration with sloughing results. Treatment, («) With testis In the scrotum.—If the case is seen soon after the rotation has occurred, an attempt should be made to untwist it. This has been successful in a certain number of instances, but success does not always avert subsequent atrophy. If the attempt to untwist is not successful, the testis should be exposed Fig. 662.—Torsion of the spermatic cord.