POSTOPERATIVE HiEMATEMESIS 37i a reflex nervous influence " (Mayo Robson). (3) That it is due to injury to the omentum (v. Eiselsbcrg). (4) That it is due to the ansesthetic. Sepsis, as first showTi by Rodman, is the cause in most cases. It is now known that gastric erosions and gastric ulcers are relatively common complications of septic conditions. The haemorrhage has the same origin as that in the first group, from definite lesions of the mucous membrane of the stomach. Thus, during the years 1907-9, 19 acute ulcers—18 of stomach and 1 of duodenum—were found at the Pathological Institute of the London Hospital in patients who died shortly after operation. In none of these cases had haematemesis or melsena occurred. In 12 the operations had been undertaken for acute appendicitis, in 3 for acute intestinal obstruction, in 1 for infective gangrene of the leg, in 1 for papilloma of bladder in a patient with pyuria, and in 2 for disease of the gall-bladder. During the same period 8 patients died with postoperative haematemesis. In 3 cases it originated after operation for acute appendicitis, in 2 after operation upon the gall-bladder, and in 1 each after external urethrotomy, hysterectomy, and epithelioma of tongue. In the last two of these cases the hsemorrhage arose from a chronic gastric ulcer which had eroded the coronary artery, and a chronic duodenal ulcer with an erosion of the gastro-duodenal artery. Of the remainder, in 1 case erosions were found in the duodenum, in 2 cases an acute gastric idcer was found, in 1 a bleeding erosion was discovered at operation, in 1 no cause could be found post mortem, in another no post- mortem was obtained. Postoperative hsematemesis is the result of septic gastritis in the majority of cases, but hsematemesis may occur from a chronic ulcer which has been in existence for some time without giving rise to symptoms sufiiciently severe to need treatment. Mansell-Moullin has recorded a case in which a j^oung man aged 23 died from profuse hsematemesis forty-eight hours after an exploratory incision made in the left iliac fossa for inoperable carcinoma ; at the post-mortem no cause was found in the stomach, but it is possible that an erosion was overlooked. Treatment.—Patients in whom this condition arises are always desperately ill. If the vomit is black, frequent, and small m amount, gentle lavage with warm water, to which 3i of bicarbonate of soda to the pint has been added, should be employed, and repeated if necessary. The toxjemia should be combated by continuous saline injection per rectum. 3. H^MATEMESIS FROM A ChRONIC GaSTRIC OR DuODENAL UlCER Tliis is a serious complication and leads not infrequently to a fatal result. Cecil Wall investigated the death-rate among the patients admitted into the London Hospital with hsematemesis due to chronic gastric ulcer, and found that it was 12-| per cent, in