972 THE PENIS Permanent acquired phimosis is tlie result of inflammatory lesions ending in the formation of scar tissue, such as the healing of ulcers and chancres, or fibrosis supervening on a chronic balano-posthitis. The condition is of special importance in elderly men, as it may pre- dispose to carcinoma, and it will be more fully dealt with in considering malignant diseases of the penis. PAKAPHIMOSIS This term indicates inability to draw the prepuce forward again after it has been retracted behind the gians penis. It is always associated with phimosis, which may be congenital or the result of an inflammatory condition of the prepuce or glans penis. Acute parapliimosis is frequently seen in boys and yoimg men who have retracted a tight prepuce from curiosity or when mas- turbating, but is also common after coitus or as a complication of chancre or gonorrhoea. The condition is usually recognized at a glance. The glans penis is swollen and congested, and beliind the corona is a red (edematous roll of tissue, most marked underneath, wliich represents the returning layer of the prepuce. Beliind this is a deep sulcus which corresponds to the narrow preputial orifice, and behind tliis again is a second cedematous collar of skin corresponding to the outer layer of the prepuce. The whole penis is swollen and congested, and frequently twisted. If the condition is not treated, ulceration of the constricting band formed by the preputial orifice takes place, and the congestion is relieved, but the paraphimosis may become permanent. Very rarely sloughing of the glans penis may occur. Treatment—Treatment consists in immediate reduction. In order to reduce the swelling the penis is bandaged firmly from the glans backwards with a cold-water bandage. The bandage is left in position for a few minutes and then removed. The penis is then grasped between the index and middle fingers of both hands while the thumbs rest on the glans. A combination of steady pulling forwards with the fingers and pushing backwards with the thumbs will usually effect reduction. When the oedema has disappeared circumcision should be advised. If reduction is not accomplished in this way, the con- stricting band should be cut across without delay; reduction is then easy. Chronic paraphimosis is an occasional sequel to acute para- phimosis with moderate constriction, or the condition may be chronic from the first and due to inflammation. It is rare. Treatment.—Inflammatory conditions should be treated on general principles, but if the condition is permanent from organization of the exudate, as in a case under my care, a plastic operation may be considered advisable.