795 MOVABLE KIDNEY: TREATMENT jat.—It is hoped to obtain an increased deposit of fat around the kidney, but this does not obtain in practice. This treatment is, how- ever, a useful adjunct to other methods. In severe cases the full Weir-Mitchell treatment should be insisted upon. 2. Bij mechanical afparatus.—The kidney truss exerts pressure upwards and outwards by a thin padded metal plate (Ernst). It must be applied lying down. The kidney belt is an abdominal belt coming down over the iliac crest and accurately moulded to the hips. The lower border follows the curve of the groin and overlaps the pubic bones. There is an elastic inset on each side, and perineal straps are attached. An oval or horse-slioe-shaped kidney pad is added. The belt must be applied when the patient is lying down. It may be fatted to the lower part of a corset. The corset for movable kidney (Gallant) is accurately fitted. Below the waist it is inflexible and elastic ; above the waist it permits free play of the trunk. Operative treatment.—The kidney is exposed by an oblique lumbar incision or by a vertical incision along the outer border of the erector spinse muscle. The kidney is then fixed—(a) By sutures passing through the kidney capsule or through the kidney substance, carried through the muscles of the abdominal wall at the upper edge of the wound, and tied. (6) By stripping the capsule of the kidney (decorti- cation), (c) By stitching the stripped capsule to the parietes ; the capsule may be rolled up on the anterior or posterior surface, or split into wedges or strips, {d) By partial stripping and by sutures through the substance of the kidney, (e) By placing strips of gauze below the lower pole to promote granulation and cicatrization. (/) By the formation of a shelf of peritoneum or fibrous capsule ; this may be done by stitching through the parietal peritoneum and abdominal muscles below the kidney after opening the peritoneal cavity (Bishop), or by reflecting a strip of fibrous capsule and stitching it below the kidney without opening the abdomen (Watson Cheyne). Results.—The operative mortality is stated at 1 per cent., but it is lower than this in skilled hands. In IIG cases examined not less than three months after operation. Keen found that 57-8 per cent, were cured and 12-9 per cent, improved, while in 19-8 per cent, the operation had failed. Failure consisted either in recurrence of the mobility or in persistence of the pain. INJURIES TO THE KIDNEY 1. Injuries without External Wound The right side is more often affected than the left, and the injury is rarely bilateral.