THE VAGINA 994 but otherwise must be dealt with by implantation of the injured duct into the bladder or removal of the corresponding kidney. Eecto-vaginal fistulse should be sutured. CYSTOCBLE A cystocele is a protrusion of the anterior vaginal wall and bladder base between the edges of the two levator ani muscles, which have become divaricated as a result of childbirth. Etiology.—Inadequacy of the perineum nearly always coexists. The protrusion, though a result of parturition, does not commonly follow that event for some years. It is usually seen, like uterine pro- lapse and rectocele, with which it is often associated, in women approaching the forties—the stretching of the tissues, which at first is very slow, being accelerated by the loss of muscular tone that accom- panies advancing years. Clinical features.—The patient complains of " something falling," or " the womb falling," though the uterus may not be dis- placed. The protrusion is a source of soreness or pain, and sometimes of micturitional troubles, usually partial incontinence. Diagnosis.—The pink rounded protrusion could, after digital examination, only be confused with a lax cyst of the anterior vaginal wall, which is a rarity. A sound in the bladder can be felt under the vaginal wall if the swelling be a cystocele, but not if it be a cyst. Treatment.—Cystocele may be treated (1) by pessaries, (2) by perineoplasty, or (3) by anterior colporrhaphy. 1. Pessaries.—If an operation is not possible or advisable by reason of the patient's refusal, her age or general condition, or the likelihood of further labours, a rubber ring or a Hodge's pessary should be inserted. 2. Perineoplasty.—^If the patient should not, cannot, or will not wear a pessary, a well-performed perineoplasty (p. 1003) usually suffices to prevent the protrusion. The new perineum must extend forwards so as completely to screen the vaginal orifice. In other cases, though it does not prevent the protrusion altogether, it allows of the retention of a pessary, previously impossible. 3. Anterior colporrhaphy.—An oval area of the protruded vaginal wall, with its long axis in that of the vagina, is excised, and the fascise (triangular ligaments) underlying it are divided so as to separate the bladder base from the vaginal wall very freely around the margins of the incisions, and allow it to ride upwards before the wound is sutured. The gap in the fasciae is then sutured transversely, and the gap in the vaginal mucosa longitudinally. A more elaborate procedure consists in dissecting outwards from the margins of the incision until the edges of the levatores ani are reached, and suturing