932 THE TESTIS (c) In the efididymis.—If suppuration occur in the epididymis a fluctuating swelling forms at the lower and posterior part of the scrotum. After the discharge of the pus, healing occurs by fibrous tissue, and the secretion of the testis is usually lost to the semen. Treatment. 1. The urethritis.—The patient should be given urinary antiseptics and sedatives such as urotropin, hetraline, buchu, acid sodium phosphate, etc., and encouraged to drink freely of bland fluids. If injections of astringents and antiseptics into the urethra are being used, it is probably wise to discontinue them. 2. General treatment—Wliile the condition is acute the patient should be confined to bed on a light diet and the bowels freely opened ; the more complete the rest in bed the sooner will resolution occur. Drugs such as morphia, antimony tartrate, anemone pulsatilla, sali- cylate of soda, etc., may be given for the relief of pain. Vaccine- therapy has also been employed with some success. 3. Local treatment.—The testis should be well supported either by a good suspensory bandage or, if the patient is in bed, on a small pillow. For the first forty-eight hours cold may be applied either by means of an ice-bag or by evaporating lead lotion, but warmth in the shape of fomentations equally relieves the pain, and probably is of more value in promoting resolution. If a hydrocele be present and the pain intense, relief can frequently be obtained by puncturing with a tenotomy knife and allowing the escape of fluid. Cormter-irritation by painting the scrotum with silver nitrate (3i ad §i) till smarting is complained of will often relieve the pain and allow the patient to get about if tliis is necessary. Bier's method of passive congestion can also be tried. As soon as the acute stage is over, the testis should be carefully strapped to pro- mote absorption of the inflammatory products, and the strapping with suspension of the testis should be continued until all thickening has disappeared. Tliis treatment, combined with the giving of potassium iodide and injections of fibrolysin, should also be carried out for simple chronic epididymo-orchitis. If suppuration occur the abscess should be carefully opened over the most prominent part. Great care should be taken in opening an abscess in front of the scrotum, as the pus is frequently confined to the cavity of the tunica vaginaUs, and a careless incision may open the tunica albuginea and infect the testis. Incision into the testis with a tenotomy Icnife has been advised in the early stages of epididymo-orchitis, even in gonorrhoeal cases. The proceeding is not without danger, and is probably useless. Excision of the fibrous nodules of chronic epididymo-orchitis has been done, but the results as regards sterility are doubtful. In cases of gangrene the organ should be excised and the scrotum drained.