300 THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM are seen running from the duodenum and jejunum to the parietal peritoneum. Of these, the inferior and superior, bounding small recesses with their openings directed upwards and downwards respec- tively, are most often seen. Hernias may occur in this situation, and may not only complicate the operation of gastro-jejunostomy, but render it entirely impracticable, as in a case of chronic duodenal ulcer recently under my care. A. E. Barker has placed on record a similar case. Blood-supply of stomach and duodenum.—The stomach and supra-ampullary part of the duodenum are supplied with blood from the branches of the cceUac axis. The remainder of the duodenum is supplied from the superior mesenteric artery by me3,ns of its inferior pancreatico-duodenal branch. The superior mesenteric vessels have an important relation to the third portion of the duodenum, in that they cross its middle and by the pressure produced in certain conditions have been said to cause acute dilatation of the stomach (p. 324). The veins of the stomach and duodenum pass to the portal system. Lymphatics.—Knowledge of the lymphatic system of the stomach is essential to the correct surgery of malignant disease. The present operation of partial gastrectomy is based upon the researches of Cuneo, published in 1900. His results have been confirmed and extended by Dobson and Jamieson, on whose work the following account is based. The lymphatics arise around the glands in the mucous membrane, and form submucous, muscular, and subserous plexuses continuous throughout the whole of the stomach and communicating with those of the duodenum and oesophagus. From the subserous plexuses the vessels pass out to enter the lymphatic glands into which they drain. Although no barrier could be demonstrated by injection experiments between the areas drained by the several sets of glands, yet one lymphatic territory becomes fully injected before the fluid spreads over into a neighbouring one. The groups of lymphatic glands are placed along the course of the principal blood-vessels, and, as elsewhere, they drain the corre- sponding areas. The main groups of glands are the following (Fig. 363) :— 1. The coronary set lie along the descending branch of the coronary artery and are divided into two groups, upper and lower. The lower glands lie close to the lesser curvature and rarely extend farther to the right than the mid-point between oesophagus and pylorus ; they increase in size and number as they approach the cardia. The upper group lie in the falx coronata with the stem of the artery. The paracardial are outlying members of this group, and lie around the cardia, sometimes extending to the left of the cardiac orifice ; occasion-