roro THE UTERUS and the erosion is often said to have " healed." A permanent change is, however, now established in the cervical tissues. (See under Carcinoma of the Cervix, p. 1019.) Clinical features.—The leading symptom of chronic cervi- citis is leucorrhoea, popularly known as " the whites." The mucus escaping from the cervix is transparent, but after mixture with the creamy-coloured vaginal secretion it becomes whitish and streaked. It is most copious in the earlier stages of cervicitis, and gradually lessens as the glands become occluded. The cervix is often the seat of old ununited laceration. It is doubtful if chronic cervicitis per se can cause pain, but inasmuch as it is often associated with endometritis, retro- version or prolapse, or other abnormal conditions of the genital organs, it is often associated with pain. Differential diagnosis. — Cer- vical " erosion " in its earlier phases is = readily distinguish- able from carcinoma of the cervix, but when severe and old - standing may simulate it so closely Fig. 581.—Cervical erosion, cystic stage. that diagnosis can only be made by microscopy. Nor is this surprising, since erosion is the constant precursor of carcinoma. In general, though slight oozing may follow examination, an erosion never bleeds freely, and though its surface may be irregular and rough, the consistence of the tissues is firm. Carcinoma, on the other hand, always bleeds more or less readily, and its surface, in addition to being irregularly excrescent, is friable. In all cases of doubt a microscopical examination should be made. Treatment.—Chronic cervicitis may be treated either by applications or by operation. Applications.—^Douches are customarily prescribed for leucor- rhoea. Although vaginal irrigation appUes chemicals but inefficiently to the cervical canal, it is of use, inasmuch as it washes away the discharge, benefits the surface of the erosion, and allays vaginitis. In the more acute stages antiseptic solutions should be used, such as