412 THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM experiments, in which an exceptionally large opening was found in the pyloric portion of the stomach, some of the food passed out by this channel. On the other hand, Pers of Copenhagen published in 1909 the results of X-ray examination of 40 patients upon whom he had performed gastro-jejunostomy, and found that in 38, irrespec- tively of the permeability of the pylorus, a bismuth meal passed only through the anastomosis, that in one case it passed through both anastomosis and pylorus, and that in one its course could not be ascer- tained. In 24 cases the food began to leave the stomach at once. This is in agreement with a case recorded by H. M. W. Gray, in which, after gastro-jejunostomy, pyloric obstruction not being present, food preferred to leave by the anastomotic opening. Cases have been recorded in which, after gastro-jejunostomy carried out for the treatment of a duodenal fistula, food still passed through the pylorus and escaped at the fistula. In comparing these results with those of animal experiments, and using them to aid in explaining the occurrences after gastro- jejunostomy for non-obstructive chronic ulcer, it must be remembered that in the one the stomach was healthy, in the other diseased. To settle the question a series of X-ray examinations is needed, taken immediately after operation and at intervals until the ulcer has healed. I believe, from the few cases I have examined with the screen, that after gastro-jejunostomy for chronic ulcer the food passes out by the anastomotic opening, owing to the presence of pyloric spasm, but that when the ulcer has healed this aperture may be no longer used, though by remaining as a safety-valve it prevents an ulcer from again becoming chronic. Bolton's experiments have proved the importance of impaired motility in preventing the healing of ulcers. After gastro-jejunostomy the total acidity of the gastric contents is lowered (Willcox, Paterson). This is due partly to the escape of bile or pancreatic juice into the stomach, and also in all probability, as pointed out by Paterson, to the earlier secretion of pancreatic juice and consequent earlier diminution of gastric secretion due to the presence of an acid fluid in the jejunum. The beneficial effect of gastro-jejimostomy in allowing ulcers to heal is twofold. In the first place, by more rapid emptying of the stomach it prevents irritation of the ulcer ; secondly, it leads to diminution of HCl. That the first is a factor is shown by the imme- diate relief given by operation : it is no uncommon thing to find a patient, a week after gastro-jejunostomy, able to eat solid food ; it is inconceivable that a large ulcer should be healed in a few days by diminution of gastric acidity only. That the operation has no evil effects on nutrition is proved by