607 GLUTEAL AND SCIATIC HERNIA swelling at any of the hernial rings the condition may be found at an exploratory laparotomy ; but the relation of the hernia to the obturator nerve, which it often compresses, may give rise to pain referred to the hip- or knee-joints, or along the inner side of the thigh and knee, or even the calf. Localized tenderness internal to the femoral vessels in tlie presence of signs of obstruction should suggest the possibility of this condition. It should not be forgotten that in this hernia especially, as in the two following varieties, a portion of the lateral aspect of the bowel only may be involved (Richter's hernia), and therefore the signs of obstruction may not be complete, flatus passing, and even fasces at times. 2, 3. Gluteal and sciatic hernia—In the region of the buttock there are three apertures through which a hernia may escape from the pelvis, viz. (1) the great sacro-sciatic notch, above the pyriformis muscle ; (2) the same, below that muscle (these two hernias are known as gluteal) ; and (3) the lesser sacro-sciatic notch, when the hernia is known as sciatic. All of these hernias are of very rare occurrence, and, like obturator hernia, are usually only met with when strangulated. But they mmj be recognized whilst still simply irreducible, or even in rare cases reducible ; and in such cases the swelling which is felt in the gluteal region or, in the case of the sciatic hernia, just at or below the gluteal fold, must be differentiated from that produced by a subfascial lipoma, a chronic abscess in connexion with the hip- or the sacro-iliac joint, an aneurysm of the gluteal or sciatic vessels, or cysts or other tumours of this region. Pressure of the hernia on the sciatic nerve may cause local tender- ness or deep-seated pain down the back of the thigh, and thus suggest sciatica ; or in the case of the gluteal hernia there may be pain referred to the hip-joint. Owing to the thickness of the coverings an impulse on coughing is rarely felt, and for the same reason absence of pulsation does not entirely obscure the possibility of aneurysm. In aneurysm, however, throbbing pain may be present, and, although this might suggest an acute abscess, the absence of constitutional symptoms and the duration of the tumour without rapid increase in size would negative the diagnosis. Lipomas are commonly devoid of pain or tenderness, and are of such size as to render a mistake improbable, at least as regards hernia. Cold abscesses not in connexion with joints or bone disease are also painless and definitely fluctuating ; otherwise they are only part of a condition giving rise to definite symptoms. The following points should be remembered :— (1) All gluteal swellings of doubtful origin should be exposed by open incision. (2) Puncture by exploring needles should be avoided owing to the possibility of aneurysm or hernia.