INFLAMMATORY DISEASES 173 1. ACUTE SUPERFICIAL GLOSSITIS Is seen to follow most burns or injuries of the tongue of slight extent, anil tends in these cases to be local or patchy, readily yielding to mild remedies such as mouth-washes or emollient applications of borax, borax and honey, or Listerine. The difliuse form occurs in two main types, the nervous and the membranous. The nervous variety, which is often unilateral, is associated with trigeminal neuralgia or, in some cases, with facial paralysis. There is an outbreak of vesicles on the tongue, which becomes red and tender. The associated nervous affections justify us in regarding the condition as related to herpes zoster. There is no special treatment ; sedative mouth-washes, tonics, and antipyrin or phenacetin should be tried. Membranous glossitis may occur as part of a generalized diphtlieria, the disease then not being confined to the tongue. The tongue and the submaxillary Ij'mphatic glands are swollen. Wharton published a case of primary diplitheria of the tongue—a very rare condition. Pseudo-difhtheria.—True diphtheria can only be diagnosed if the typical Klebs-Loffler bacillus be found, other forms being classed under the heading of pseudo-diphtheria. Membranous glossitis is occasion- ally met with in children who are suffering from measles and who are the subjects of impetigo and eczema. The membrane contains desquamated epithelium and streptococci or staphylococci. Hutchinson has described under the name peJIicitlar glossitis a more chronic form which occurs in smokers. Treatment of acute superficial glossitis is simple. A purge is given and the patient is put upon a liberal though fluid diet. Ice may be sucked if there is much pain, and 10-15 grains of chlorate of potash should be administered to an adult until a drachm has been taken. This drug, given internally, is of very great value in the inflammatory or ulcerated conditions of the tongue and mouth, but must be given with caution, especially in children, as it is liable to produce hematuria. Weak solutions of cocaine may be applied occa- sionally for pain, or a mouth-wash of Listerine used as an alterna- tive. When the acute stage subsides, astringent lotions—alum, 10 gr. to the ounce, or zinc sulphate, 2 gr. to the ounce—should be sub- stituted. Occasionally a solution of bicarbonate of soda, 30 gr. to the drachm, will be found more serviceable than the other lotions. In the membranous forms the tongue should be swabbed with 1-1,000 perchloride of mercury, and, if the Klebs-Loftler bacillus is isolated, antitoxin should be given.