778 THE KIDNEY Lymphatics of the kidney.—The glands earliest affected in rena malignant disease are those at the hilum, those along the vena cava, and those between the aorta and the spermatic vein. The lymphatics from the hilum to the glands, along the great vessels, do not anastomose with neigh- bouring plexuses. Attachments of the kidney.—The following structures, which pre- vent displacement, but allow free movement (3 to 5 cm.) with respiration, combine to support the kidney: (1) The renal vessels; (2) the peritoneum; (3) the attachment of the retroperitoneal surfaces of the duodenum, colon, and pancreas; (4) the adhesions to the suprarenal capsule; (5) the perirenal Fig. 537.—To illustrate the anterior relation of the kidneys (diagrammatic). I and 2, Peritoneum-covered surface of right kidney in apposition, respectively, with liver and small intestine ; 3 to 5, peritoneum-covered surface of left kidney in apposition, respec- tively, with stomach, spleen, and small intestine ; 6, duodenum ; 7, duodeno-jejunal junction ; 8, hepatic flexure of colon ; g, ascending colon ; 10, splenic flexure ; 11, descending colon ; 12, .ittachment of transverse mesocolon; 13, suprarenals; 14, gastric surface of spleen; 15, splenic vessels; 16, pancreas; 17, inferior vena cava; 18, aorta ; 19, superior mesenteric artery ; 20, superior mesenteric vein; 21, ureters. fascia and the network of fine fibres which pass to it from the renal capsule ; (6) the perirenal fat; (7) the fascia of Toldt, which connects the perirenal fascia on the right side with the hepatic flexure and the duodenum, and on the left with the splenic flexure; and (8) the intra-abdominal pressure. THE EENAL FUNCTION The function of the kidneys in disease may be estimated by observing symptoms of renal failure, by the examination of the urine, and by certain tests. 1. Signs and symptoms of renal failure.—Thirst is the most frequent symptom, and is more severe at night. The tongue is dry, at first along the centre, and later over the whole surface. It becomes red, glazed, and cracked. In the later stages of urinary septicaemia it is covered with a dry brown fur ("parrot tongue"). There are loss of appetite and inability to