985 THE VULVA bimanual examination, while the measurement of the length of the cavity is of doubtful utility, for great enlargement is obvious by other means, and small alterations in length (an inch or less), as revealed by the sound passed without anaesthesia, are often due to the point of the instrument deviating into a cornu. The habitual use of the sound in the consulting-room will result sooner or later in its passage into a pregnant uterus by mistake. Cases undiagnosable by bimanual examination should be examined under an ansesthetic and the sound passed then. Examination under anaesthesia is advisable when serious symptoms are present and diagnosis by ordinary examination is obscure. The lithotomy position is the right one for this purpose. THE VULVA DEFORMITIES AND DISPLACEMENTS PSBUDO-HERMAPHRODISM Malformations of the vulva are rare. The commonest is that seen in a pseudo-hermaphrodite hypospadiac male. Tliis subject is discussed in the preceding article (p. 970.) PROLAPSE OF THE URETHRA Prolapse of the urethral mucosa occurs in elderly women. The protrusion is purple-red in colour, with a central aperture, and may be much inflamed or ulcerated. The patient complains of a very tender swelling and of difficulty and pain in micturition. The central orifice in the swelling differentiates it from new growths in this situation. The redundant mucosa should be amputated circxi- larly and the cut edge of the urethra united to the surface by fine silk sutures. Care must be taken not to remove the mucous membrane of the vestibule, but to limit the excision to that belonging to the canal, otherwise stenosis may occur. URETHROCELE A urethrocele is a protrusion consisting of the lower inch of the anterior vaginal wall, and containing a pouched portion of the urethra. The condition is met with in multipara in whom the perineum is deficient. The patient is conscious of a lump which protrudes on standing or straining. After the expulsive act of micturition, dribbling occurs as the distended pouch empties itself. Treatment consists in excision of the redundant portion of the vaginal wall, together Avith the prolonged portion of the urethra, followed by closure of the openings in the walls of the canals by separate rows of sutures. Perineoplasty is then performed to prevent recurrence.