684 RECTUM AND ANAL CANAL must be effectually treated, and tlie motion rendered as soft as possible by the injection of oil into the bowel. For pain, a cocaine ointment may be applied. To promote healing, a stimulating ointment or powder, e.g. calomel or resin, should be used. If these measures fail to cure in three or four weeks, operation should be earnestly advised, for this painful disease causes rapid loss of flesh and great depression. The object of operative treatment is to secure temporary paralysis of the external sphincter muscle by its division. If the fissure is recent and not associated with other conditions requiring operation, local anaesthesia may be employed, but whenever possible a general anaes- thetic should be given to ensure more thorough treatment. In the former case the base of the fissure is infiltrated with eucaine and adrenalin, and divided, together with the superficial fibres of the external sphincter muscle. The " sentinel pile," if present, must be removed, otherwise healing will not follow. If general anaesthesia be adopted, the sphincters are dilated, and the anal margin everted with the finger inside, so as to bring the fissure into full view. An incision is then made through the fissure and the whole external sphincter muscle, and prolonged on to the skin for f in. The wound must be carefully cleansed after defaecation, and made to heal from the bottom. One division only of the sphincter is necessary to secure the healing of multiple fissures. Permanent loss of control never follows the operation. ABSCESS Suppuration originating in disease of the rectum and anal canal occurs in definite anatomical situation's. The following varieties of abscess may be distinguished, viz. (1) subcutaneous, (2) ischio-rectal, (3) submucous, (4) pelvi-rectal, and (5) labial. (Fig. 500.) 1. Subcutaneous Abscess This is situated in the subcutaneous tissue at or near the anal margin. It originates from infection of either a sebaceous follicle (the follicular abscess), a fissure, or an external pile. The follicular abscess is usually single, but may be multiple if more than one follicle be infected. It is situated close to, but not at the anal margin, and has no tendency to burrow towards the anal canal; hence a fistula does not follow. The diagnosis is obvious, and the treatment by a free radial incision is simple. An abscess originating in a fissure, or in a thrombotic or inflamed external pile, is situated at the anal margin, and tends to burrow towards and open into the anal canal as well as on the surface of the skin at a variable distance from the anal margin. A complete subcutaneous fistula, therefore, frequently results. This tendency to