ENTEROPTOSIS 451 constipation ; sometimes symptoms of mucous colitis develop. In many cases all tlie general symptoms of neurasthenia are present to a marked degree. On examination of the abdomen, tlie epigastrium may be seen to be flattened, while the lower part of the abdomen is unduly prominent. By percussion, both borders of the stomach are found to be lower than normally, and the natural downward bend of the transverse colon is greatly exaggerated, sometimes to such an extent that the colon reaches the pubes. As the viscera change their position with the attitude assumed, the patient should be examined successively in the recumbent, the knee-elbow, and the erect position. The position of the stomach and colon may be demonstrated by X-ray examination after the introduction into the respective viscera of an emulsion of bismuth. Treatment.—In mild cases, great benefit follows the Weir- ]\Iitchell plan of treatment for the general neurasthenic condition ; and massage, electricity, and suitable exercises should be prescribed to improve the tone of the abdominal muscles. The lower part of the abdomen should be supported by a suitable belt or bandage, applied while the patient is in the Trendelenburg position, and exerting pressure from below upwards. In aggravated cases, or when these measures have failed, operative treatment may be considered, but when the neurasthenic element is prominent, even complete restoration of the viscera to their normal position often fails to relieve the symptoms. Success has followed slinging up the stomach by " reefing " the lesser omentum. The stomach and transverse colon have been fixed to the abdominal wall, and other operations have been performed to restore individual viscera to their proper position. It is probable that when benefit follows the opening of the abdomen in these cases, it is largely due to the tightening up of the abdominal wall in suturing it, and special attention should always be directed to this part of the procedure. Arbutlmot Lane recommends ileo-colostomy in severe and per- sistent cases, and, when pain is excessive, excision of the colon. ABNORMAL ANUS An opening deliberately made in the bowel to enable the intestinal contents to escape is spoken of as an artificial anus, and is to be dis- tinguished from a fcecal or intestinal fistula which resiilts from injury or disease. Artificial Anus The most common example of artificial amis is that made in the pelvic colon to empty the bowel when it is obstructed by maHgnant