GASTRIC ULCER: DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS 349 Appendicitis Cases have come under the care of most sur- geons in which patients, after having been treated several years for " dyspepsia," develop an attack of acute appendicitis. In the early days of gastric surgery there is no doubt that cases of this nature were treated, without curative result, by gastro-jejunostomy. The symptoms may date from an acute attack of appendicitis, but as a rule no acute attack has been experienced, and there may have been no local symptoms pointing to appendicular disease. Until recently this condition has attracted little attention in this country, but papers on the subject have lately appeared from Moynihan, Paterson, and Soltau Fenwick ; it was recognized some years ago by Ewald, and in America has been written about by Deaver, Ochsner, Murphy, and others. The symptoms may mimic either gastric or duodenal ulcer, but with care may in most cases be diagnosed from them. The chief complaint is of pain situated in the epigastrium, occurring in attacks, often due to exercise. Between the attacks there is often a continual gastric discomfort. The pain may come on shortly after food, or be delayed, and, as pointed out by Paterson, often radiates to the right iliac fossa. Vomiting is rarely present, but nausea is frequent. During an attack, slight rigidity and deep tenderness may be present in the right iliac fossa, and the temperature is a little raised. Between the attacks, tenderness may be absent. HEematemesis may occur. The symptoms have been attributed by W. J. Mayo and by Moynihan to pyloric spasm, by Soltau Fenwick and Paterson to hypersecretion of gastric juice. I believe the former to be the ex- planation in most cases of this nature. In a large number of the cases of " appendix dyspepsia" that have come under my care, free HCl has been absent and the total acidity low. It must be remembered, however, that disease of the appendix may give rise to " erosions " of the mucous membrane of the stomach, which may go on to chronic ulceration. Careful attention to the history, confinement to bed, and examina- tion during the attack should in most cases enable the surgeon to make the diagnosis. Carcinoma.—The differential diagnosis between carcinoma and non-malignant gastric ulcer is discussed elsewhere (p. 386). It must first be remembered that in not a few cases carcinoma is directly implanted on chronic ulcer, and that in these cases there may be no symptoms or signs that the ulcer has become malignant ; the usual history of chronic ulcer, extending over years, is obtained, with remissions of almost complete health, and the diagnosis of malig- nancy is only made at operation. The history of primary carcinoma