THE BREAST 62 f Visceral dissemination—Although the permeation theory of dissemination seems the only tenable one so far as the superficial metastases are concerned, it might appear at first sight necessary to invoke the embolic theory to explain secondary deposits in the viscera. Careful investigation shows that this is not the case. The- visceral metastases in breast cancer mainly arise from permeation along the numerous fine anastomoses which, piercing the parietes, connect the lymphatic plexus of the deep fascia with the subendothelial lymphatic plexuses of the pleura and the peritoneum, and with the mediastinal and portal glands. But as soon as the subserous plexus is reached, permeation is relegated to a subsidiary position, for the cancer cells soon erode the over- lying endothelium and escape into the serous cavities. Under the in- fluence of muscular move- ments and of gravity, the cancer cells become widely diffused through- out the invaded cavity, and implant themselves upon the serous surfaces of the various organs. Here they grow and originate secondary de- posits. This mode of cancerous dissemination may be called transcoelomic implantation. It only occurs very late in the disease, but once initiated it rapidly leads to the death of the patient. In accordance with this view is the fact that the thorax and the abdomen may be invaded independently. That is to say, after death secondary deposits may be found only in the thorax and not in the abdomen, or only in the abdomen and not in the thorax—a fact for wliich the embolic theory fails to account. Moreover, as might be expected, the presence of serous (non-cancerous) adhesions is found to delay dissemination by hindering transcoelomic implantation. The secondary deposits, too, in the serous cavities show a preference for the serous surfaces of the viscera, and, owing to the action of gra- vity, tend to affect the lower limits of the serous cavities, especially the pelvis. Fig. 273.—Infiltration in breast cancer. Narrow columns of cancer cells are growing along the cellular interspaces. X 20. Cf. Fig. 274.