589 ETIOLOGY OF HERNIA these organs has not been diagnosed, the case may be treated sinijaly as one of inflamed sac, with the result that an abscess forms, and in the one case a fsecal fistula, and in the other sloughing of the ovary and its tube, is the result. Etiology of hernia.—It has been customary hitherto to divide all hernias into two classes, viz. (1) those dependent on some arrest in the development of the abdominal wall at or previous to birth, and therefore known as congenital ; and (2) those which, owing to weakening of the abdominal wall at its most vulnerable points by subsequent strains and injuries, originate in later life, and are known therefore as acquired. Much doubt has been thrown on the accuracy of the latter term by Hamilton Russell, whose theory is dealt with later (p. 590). Whether a hernia be congenital or acquired, certain factors are essential to its formation—(1) a weak spot in the abdominal wall, and (2) an increase in the intra-abdominal pressure. 1. Weak spots in the abdominal wall.—Inasmuch as fibrous tissue lacks the power of resistance to strain and of recovery after stretching possessed by muscle, all areas in the abdominal wall that depend for their strength upon either aponeuroses or cicatrices are to be considered as weak spots. If the entire abdominal wall were guarded by muscular tissue alone, hernia would probably be comparatively rare. The naturally weak points of the abdominal wall are as follows : The inguinal canal; the femoral canal; the umbilicus ; the median line of the abdomen ; the lumbar (Petit's) triangle ; the obturator foramen ; the sciatic notch ; the intermuscular spaces in the levator ani ; and the costo-xiphoid inter-space. 2. Increase of intra-abdominal pressure.—This is probably only a potent factor—(i) When it is quicMy deveh-ped, as in rapid ascites or in general obesity, (ii) When it is sudden, fowerful, or inter- mittent, as in heavy manual labour, in the playing of wind instruments, in coughing or screaming, in repeated pregnancies in weakly women, or in the straining necessitated by phimosis, stricture, constipation, etc. (iii) When gradual pressure is suddenly relieved and followed by intermittent increase, e.g. when large old-standing pelvic tumours are removed in asthmatic or bronchitic patients. CIradual increase ; lone has probably but little influence. Defaecation and hernia.—Although the squatting position during defajcatiou is both natural and anatomically and physiologically cor- rect, most modern conveniences demand a sedentary posture, in which the groins are undefended, the abdominal muscles lack a point d'appui, and consequently the eiiort required is a serious tax on the weak spots. If the effort to support the abdomen on the thighs is