862 THE BLADDER witlaout cystitis. In certain diseases of the kidney, notably tuberculous disease, calculus, and pyelitis, frequent micturition and pyuria may occur without cystitis. Is the cystitis primary or secondary ? Renal calculus, pyonephrosis, renal tuberculosis, pyeloneplu:itis, and urethral or prostatic disease may all cause secondary cystitis. The diagnosis is made by the history of the primary infection and the use of the cystoscope and urethroscope. Prognosis.—In uncomplicated cystitis the attack lasts from two to five weeks, and recovery is usually complete. When a diverti- culum or sacculi of the bladder are present, recurrent attacks and eventually chronic cystitis may be expected. When there is urethral obstruction the cystitis rarely disappears until the obstruction is completely removed. Cystitis in a paralysed bladder is permanent. When the cystitis is secondary to renal disease it will persist until this is cured. Treatment. Acute cystitis.—The patient is confined to bed and placed on low diet. Diuretics are administered, such as Contrexeville water, barley-water, parsley-tea, and buchu. When the urine is acid, citrate of potash, potassium bicarbonate, magnesium sulphate, and liquor potasste should be given, and sandalwood oil added. To relieve spasm, belladonna, hyoscyamus, opium, and bromide of camphor are given, and hot fomentations applied to the lower abdo- men and perineum. Hot sitz-baths are recommended twice or thrice a day, and relief may be obtained by means of a hot rectal enema or a vaginal douche containing antipyrin. The bowels should be opened with a saline purge. No attempt should be made to wash the bladder at this stage. Subacute cystitis.—The patient is allowed up and a less restricted diet permitted, but all highly spiced foods, curries, much meat, coffee, and all alcoholic drinks are forbidden. Urinary antiseptics such as urotropine, hetraline, helmitol, urodonal, and salol should be administered, and sometimes benzoate of soda and ammonia and boric acid will be found valuable. If the cystitis is due to Bacillus coli or other bacteria wliich flourish in acid urine, alkalis should be given, but if the urine is alkaline from ammoni- acal decomposition, dilute mineral acids, boric acid, benzoe^te of scda and ammonia, and especially sodium acid phosphate, are indicated. Bladder-washing should be commenced, and vaccine treatment with an autogenous vaccine will be found useful (see below). CFironic cystitis If renal, prostatic, or urethral disease is present, this must be treated. The treatment is similar to that of subacute cystitis. Bladder-washing plays a prominent part in the treatment ; a visit to one of the Continental spas, such as Wildungen,