PALLIATIVE TREATMENT 617 If used, the truss must fulfil the following conditions: it must fit the patient; be neither too strong nor too weak in the spring; be of a pattern intended for the variety of hernia under treatment; and only be applied in the recumbent position after the hernia has been reduced. For a description of the numerous forms of truss the reader is referred to the surgical instrument-makers' catalogues. The most jiopular variety is the circular spring truss ; a modification of this witli a prolonged perineal pad, known as the " rat-tail " truss, is sometimes more efficient for large inguino-scrotal hernias. The " Moc-main " truss gives more with the movements of the body, but is readily damaged. For inguinal hernias in children the best forms are the india-rubber horseshoe-shaped truss and the woollen-skein truss. The former is the better, but is expensive, for new ones must be bought as the child grows, and the rubber deteriorates on the moist skin of a young child and may cause irritation. The skein is applied as follows : A thick skein of undyed berlin wool is passed round the waist from behind forwards ; the end on the side of the hernia is threaded through its fellow and drawn taut, so that tlie crossing lies immediately over the inguinal canal. With the child in the recumbent position the hernia is reduced, a cotton-wool pad placed beneath the crossing, and the free end of the skein carried back tlirough the perineum and fixed to the girdle portion just to tlie outer side of the sacro-iliac joint. The skein should not be removed in the bath, but replaced by a dry one afterwards. For umbilical hernia in an infant a binder over a pad is sufficient ; no pad small enough to enter the umbilical ring must be used. Nothing is better than a leaden disc covered with lint or cotton-wool and sewn to the binder. Indications for use of a truss.—Unless there is some definite contra-indication to operation, the surgeon will do well to advise a radical cure at any age. Trusses may, however, be advisable in infants under 18 months of age, in patients refusing operation or out of reach of surgical assistance, in those in whom any surgical inter- ference is contra-indicated, e.g. in the victims of hfemophilia, diabetes, or nephritis, and sometimes in very old people. The characters of a n-ell-fitting truss should be as follows : (1) The spring should lie closely to the pelvis without undue pressure at any point. (2) It should control tlie hernia when the patient, standing with legs wide apart and thighs everted, and stooping so as to rest his hands on liis knees, exerts his full expiratory force. (3) The pad should be soft and elastic, and rather flat. (4) The pad should fall not on the external abdominal ring, but on the whole length of the inguinal canal.