SUBPHRENIC ABSCESS 573 Pathology.—The bacteriology of subphrenic abscess is as varied as that of peritonitis. Pus spreading from the primary focus may find itself at once in the subphrenic region, or it may reach this region from a distance, traversing intraperitoneally the anatomical routes already considered, or paths determined by adhesions, or spread- ing in the retroperitoneal tissue of the posterior abdominal wall. Per- foration of the diaphragm is said to be more likely to occur in the last- named class of case. In a certain number of cases (about 15 per cent.) the cavity of a subphrenic abscess contains gas, which may be present either as the result of bacterial activity within the abscess, or may have gained admission by direct continuity from the alimentary canal, or even from the air-passages. Symptoms and diagnosis.—The onset may be very acute and present most of the features of an abdominal " catastrophe " ; it may be subacute, with pain in the upper part of the abdomen, fever, and possibly a rigor, and pain in the shoulder is common. Pain and tenderness over the lower ribs, and limitation of the respiratory move- ments, together with cough, slight expectoration, and irregular fever, following upon a history of gastric ulcer, an operation for suppurative appendicitis, or other recognizable cause of subphrenic suppuration, would make up a clinical picture of such a case. The onset may, on the other hand, be so slow and insidious, and present so few localizing symptoms and physical signs, as to make the diagnosis a matter of the greatest difficulty. As the symptoms and causes vary within such wide limits, so also do the physical signs. Broadly speaking, the physical signs are those of a limited collection of fluid at the base of the lung. In a well- marked case there may be an area of dullness sharply marked off from the resonance of the lung above, together with loss of breath sounds and diminution or loss of vocal fremitus and resonance. When the abscess contains gas there may be on percussion a characteristic series of changes from the dull area below, through a tympanitic area, up to the normal pulmonary resonance. Alteration of the position of the patient may cause alteration of the position of the resonant area as the gas and pus adjust themselves to the new position. The lower lobe of the lung may be so compressed as to present a zone of tubular breathing and impaired resonance above the level of absolute dullness. If the collection is a large one, the liver may be pushed downwards so as to be easily palpable below the costal margin ; the heart may be displaced upwards. A screen examination with the X-rays sometimes proves most valuable by indicating the level and degree of mobility of the diaphragm. The diagnosis is often complicated by the presence of clear or puru- lent fluid in the pleural cavity above the subphrenic collection. The