HERNIA 652 is the only safe treatment where the patient is old, feeble, and exhausted by pain and vomiting, and where the mass is too great for resection and anastomosis. It should also be done, as a rule, in strangulation of the large bowel, in preference to primary resection, which has a higher mortality than in the case of the small bowel, because (1) the blood supply is less extensive and more longitudinal, and there- fore union is more difficult to secure ; (2) the contents are more solid and therefore more irritating ; (3) the arrangement of the musculature is less adapted to anastomosis ; and (4) flatus accumulates with greater rapidity here. It should not, however, be done when there is reason to suppose that the strangulation is liigh, for although life can be saved by artificial feeding through the jejunum for a considerable period, as proved by me in conjunction with Bruce Clarke, it is extremely difficult, and would not succeed in all cases alike. Points regarding the methods of operating.—When resection and anastomosis is proposed in the case of inguinal or femoral hernia, it is better that the operation should be done in situ than that the abdomen should be opened and the damaged bowel withdrawn through the abdominal wound for the purpose. When a perforation exists there is danger of soiling the peritonemn ; while even when none is present, the manipulation necessary to reduce the damaged bowel, especially when wrapped in gauze as a precautionary measure, is hkely to result in a tear and in extravasation of the contents. In performing the anastomosis the hernial aperture must be enlarged, the bowel must be well drawn through the ring from the abdomen, thorouglily cleansed, and reduced. Where foul fluid is present, a light gauze wick or a " cigarette " drain should be placed in the wound for twenty-four hours. The surgeon may be faced with the difficulty of dealing with a section of intestine wliich is gangrenous, or at least " dangerous," at two or more points.'- He must rapidly determine on one of tluree courses : he must either (a) perform two or more separate resections ; (b) resect the whole length of bowel involved ; or (c) bring the whole length outside the abdomen and make an intestinal fistula or an artificial anus. Each case must be judged on its merits, and the following points will help in tlie decision :— 1. A large section may be resected and an anastomosis performed more rapidly than two short sections ; thus a prolonged operation is avoided. 2. When, however, the section to be removed is very long (6 to 8 ft.) the shock may be equally great; in even longer sections it may be much greater than from the resection of two separate sections. ^ This was so in Williams's case, referred to on p. 651 (footnote).