THE URETHRA 900 urethra, the opening in that canal closed, and the bladder drained supra- pubically for a fortnight. In larger defects, plastic operations are necessary (Fig. 553). For fistula at the base of the glans penis the edges of the fistula are excised, and the raw surfaces united with catgut and covered with a flap of skin from the penis (Dieffenbach's operation). For fistula on the under- surface of the penis various flap operations have been used. For the repair of extensive urethral defects the operations are autoplastic or heteroplastic. In the former a defect in the floor of the bulbous uretlira is repaired by uniting longitudinal flaps over a catheter and covering these by undercut- ting and approximating the skin. The latter methods are suitable for cases where portions of the urethra have been completely destroyed or removed. Portions of tissue from other parts of the patient's body have been used, such as the foreskin, mucous membrane from the lower lip, or the long saphenous vein. Mucous membrane has also been transplanted from other human beings, such as the mucous membrane of a prolapsed uterus, and from bullocks, goats, and birds. The results of these operations have varied, but the autoplastic have been more satisfactory than the hetero- plastic. In uretliro-rectal fistula, stricture, calculi, and other complications should first be treated, and the bladder drained suprapubically. A curved prerectal incision is made, and the urethra and rectum dissected apart. The fistula is cut across and the openings sutured. The rectum may be twisted so as to remove the sutured fistulse from immediate proximity. NEW GEOWTHS Growths are comparatively rare, the male urethra being more frequently affected than the female. The benign growths met with are papflloma, fibroma, caruncle, myoma, adenoma, and cysts ; the malignant, carcinoma and sarcoma. Gonorrhcea is said to play an important part in their etiology. In the male papilloma and adenoma, and in the female caruncle, are the most frequent forms of growth. Benign Growths : Papilloma Papillomas are found in the anterior urethra, rarely in the prostatic urethra, and resemble those met with on the glans penis and foreskin. There is a purulent discharge, and sometimes a peculiar sensation during micturi- tion. The diagnosis is made with the urethroscope. The growths bleed very readily, and are easily torn by the passage of instruments. There may be a few isolated growths, or the urethra may be choked with papillo- matous masses. The warts should be removed through the urethroscope. Uretliral forceps or a specially constructed urethroscope tube is used for the purpose, and the bases are touched with nitrate of silver. Polypi Urethral polypi usually occur in the prostatic urethra, springing from the verumontanum or close to it, rarely in the anterior urethra. Two forms are found—(1) fibroma, wliich consists of loose fibrous tissue covered by a thin layer of mucous membrane ; (2) adenoma, in which there are numerous gland follicles having appearances identical with those of the " hypertrophied" prostate. Myoma and fibro-myoma have also been described. A chronic urethral discharge is usually present, but may consist of only a few shreda