RUPTURE OF THE SPLEEN vasa brevia are branches of the splenic artery to the greater curvature of the stomach, running in the gastro-splenic omentum. These, together with the gastro-epiploica sinistra (the large vessel supplying the cardiac end of the greater curvature of the stomach), should be avoided, if possible, when separating the spleen from the stomach by division of the gastro-splenic omentum. The splenic artery ends by crossing the upper end of the left kidney, and its terminal branches pass through the lieno-renal ligament to reach the hilum, so that the close relationship of the spleen to the kidney must be remembered when the pedicle is dealt with. In some instances dragging on the pedicle has produced alarming symptoms of collapse, probably due to injury of the splenic nerve plexus, which arises from the solar plexus and runs with the splenic vessels. The capsule of the spleen is normally very thin, and the splenic tissue very friable, so that rough handling of the viscus is to be avoided. RUPTURE—PROLAPSE-TORSION RUPTURE OF THE SPLEEN In severe injuries to the abdomen (e.g. when a cart-wheel passes over the thorax or abdomen) the spleen may be torn, severely lacerated, or even severed from its vascular pedicle. Such a case generally presents associated injuries to the liver or other viscera, with or without injuries to the bones of the thoracic wall, and seldom comes within the range of surgical interference. In other instances a crush or blow upon the abdomen may produce an injury to the spleen without damage to other viscera, and be followed by grave internal haemorrhage wliich demands prompt operative treatment. In a few instances a similar result has followed a fall without any direct blow upon the abdomen. When the spleen is enlarged, as in malaria, even slight injuries have been known to produce rupture of the capsule and severe internal h?emorrhage (p. Ill), and spontaneous rupture of the spleen some- times occurs in enteric fever and in splenic infarction. Diagnosis.—Traumatic splenic rujjture can seldom be diagnosed with certainty, but may be assumed when signs of internal htemorrhage are associated with injury in the splenic region, especially if at the same time the natural splenic dullness is increased. Deepening pallor, restlessness, great thirst, acute abdominal pain, and faintness are combined with a pulse which diminishes in volume as it increases in rate until it becomes running and almost imperceptible. Abdominal rigidity is soon general, but is locally exaggerated and accompanied