372 THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM men, 6| per cent, in women. It is not yet sufficiently realized that death from this cause is common. The bleeding occurs usually from an artery of medium size, although it may take place as the result of ulceration into a vein. A small aneurysm often forms on an artery exposed in the floor of the ulcer, ruptures, and gives rise to profuse bleeding, the artery being imable to retract. The hsematemesis may be acute and lead to death so rapidly that there is no time for surgical treatment; this was the result in 8 out of 54 fatal cases collected by Savariaud : in these cases it most often occurs from the splenic artery. Usually, however, the bleeding ceases spontaneously, only to recur later, with perhaps a fatal result. The coronary, pancreatico-duodenal, and right gastro-epiploic are the usual sources of the bleeding. Treatment.—In this group, unhke the first, operation must be carried out in all cases. It must be undertaken as soon after the cessation of the first bleeding as the patient's condition will permit ; this will usually be in thirty-six to forty-eight hours. During tliis time absolute rest and the avoidance of oral feeding are essential. If in spite of this treatment the bleeding continues or recurs, opera- tion should be resorted to without delay. During the period of waiting after the first attack, a careful watch must be kept to see that bleeding is not continuing although no blood is being vomited. In this group the blood is usually escaping from an artery; direct treatment of the bleeding-point is therefore necessary. It has been stated that gastro-jejunostomy is sufficient to arrest the bleeding ; this is probably true when the blood is coming from a small vessel, but there is no way of telling the size of the vessel, and it is safer to treat the ulcer directly. That gastro-jejunostomy is not sufficient to arrest arterial haemorrhage is seen in the cases in which fatal hsematemesis from an artery in the floor of a chronic ulcer occurs some weeks after a successful gastro-jejunostomy. In a case under my care in which this happened, gastro-jejunostomy was performed in a patient with a large saddle-shaped ulcer of stomach which had per- forated anteriorly and was firmly adherent to the pancreas posteriorly. The patient did extremely well until the day on which he was to leave hospital, a month after operation, when he had a fatal hsematemesis. At the post-mortem examination the ulcer had healed anteriorly, but posteriorly the pancreas was exposed in the floor of the ulcer and a small aneurysm of the splenic artery had ruptured. After opening the abdomen, the stomach should be carefully examined, and if an ulcer is seen on the lesser curvature it should, if possible, be infolded, after ligature of the vessel on either side of it, or excised. If this is impossible from its size or the presence of adhesions, or if the ulcer is situated on the posterior surface of the stomach and adherent to the pancreas, the stomach should be opened,