711 RECTAL PROLAPSE—ADENOMA hfemorrhage must be arrested. The edges of the proximal portion of tlie gut are now sutured to those of the distal portion surrounding the anal margin. The patient should be kept under observation for some time, for fear of contraction necessitating dilatation. 4. Fixation of the gut within the abdomen.—This procedure is an alternative to the foregoing, and opinion is by no means unani- mous as to which operation gives the better results. The method is, of course, only applicable to cases of complete prolapse. Its object is to anchor the pelvic colon within the abdomen, and so long as the anchorage remains prolapse cannot recur. There are two places at which the colon may be fixed—(a) the peritoneum of the anterior abdominal wall and underlying transversalis fascia, and {b) the iliac fascia and peritoneum of the iliac fossa. In either case, after the abdomen is opened the colon is drawn upwards as far as possible and fixed in this taut position by sutures. In the former case the peritoneum is raised from the anterior abdominal wall on either side of the incision and its two edges sutured to the walls of the colon, and the longitudinal band upon the latter is sewn directly to the transversalis fascia. Thus a broad surface for adhesion is secured. In the latter case the principle is similar ; the j)eritoneum having been lifted from tlie iliac fossa, the bowel is sewn to the iliac fascia, and the peritoneum to the walls of the bowel. In all probability this gives a firmer anchorage than the former method, and it is certainly less likely to cause, at a later date, intestinal obstruction or pain from the dragging of the adhesions, both of which have been known to follow the anterior fixation. BENIGN TUMOURS Adenoma of the Rectum Adenoma of the rectum is common in childhood, but less frequent in later life. It originates in the mucosa, at first is sessile, but usually becomes pedunculated ; it forms a firm, bright-red swelling with a smooth or lobulated surface. It is composed of glandular tissue similar to the glands of Lieberkiihn ; occasionally it may undergo cystic degeneration. In children it is invariably pedunculated, and rarely exceeds the size of a cherry, whereas in adults it is relatively more frecjuently sessile, and may attain much larger dimensions (Fig. 507). It is usually single in the child, but in the adult it is relatively more commonly multiple (Fig. 508). In children the adenoma in- variably remains a simple tumour, but in later life it by no means infrequently becomes malignant. Many instances are recorded in which the removal of an adenoma by cutting through the base of attachment has been followed by a malignant growth. Simple