565 ACUTE DIFFUSE PERITONITIS vary greatly in pathogenicity as regards the peritoneum. The most virulent is the Streptococcus fyogenes, and next to that the Bacillus qnjocyaneus. The colon bacillus is sometimes extremely virulent, the differences in behaviour being due to the particular strain present, and to the patient's powers of resistance. The course of a case of peritonitis depends upon many factors, the chief of which are the nature and virulence of the infecting organism, the dosage, the sudden- ness with which the peritoneum is invaded, and the power of resist- ance of the individual patient. Infection may reach the peritoneum by many different channels :— (a) From the exterior of the body, either through an acci- dental or an operation wound or along the Fallopian tube. [h) From some part of the alimentary canal, (c) From disease of an adjacent organ other than the ali- mentary canal, such as the gall-bladder or the pancreas. {d) From an adjacent pathological structure such as a retro- peritoneal abscess or an inflamed ovarian cyst, (e) From the blood-stream (hremic infection). The following are the most common forms of acute diffuse peri- tonitis :— 1. Colon Bacillus Peritonitis The great majority of these cases originate from disease of the vermiform appendix. Perforation of that organ is a frequent though not a necessary starting-point, for the colon bacillus can infect the peritoneum through an acutely inflamed or gangrenous though un- perforated appendix ; it may spread from an imperfectly localized col- lection of pus around a diseased appendix ; or it may result from the rupture of an appendix abscess. Other causes of colon bacillus peri- tonitis are—penetrating wounds, contusions or lacerations of the intestine ; intestinal obstruction of any kind; perforation of any form of ulcer, simj^le or malignant, of the intestine ; acute inflamma- tion, gongrene, or perforation of the gall-bladder ; acute pancreatitis ; suppuration and rupture of an ovarian cyst; and inflammation, gan- grene, or perforation of a Meckel's diverticulum. The exudate in these cases is usually large in amount; that in the immediate neighbourhood of the causative lesion is turbid, and may be, but is not necessarily, of an offensive odour, whilst in more remote parts of the peritoneal cavity it is less turbid and odourless. Cover- slip preparations from this odourless exudate usually show innumer- able leucocytes and cocci; in the exudate nearer the focus of infection are seen cocci, bacilli, and phagocytes, many of which are degenerated. As the peritonitis spreads, bacilli are found in the exudate farther and farther from the focus of infection; the intestinal coils become