PSEUDO-HERMAPHRODISM 969 It is not, therefore, surprising that individuals are met with in whom the rudiments of the sexual apparatus of the opposite sex become more developed than normal, and a condition results in which it is not easy to determine the sex of the patient without micro- scopical examination of the genital gland. Such an individual is termed a pseudo-hermaphrodite, and two varieties, external and internal, are differentiated, according as the internal or the external genital glands are chiefly or wholly affected. Careful examination in recent years of these pseudo-hermaphrodites has shown that about 95 per cent, of them possess testes, and are therefore males. It might be expected that at puberty the sexual instincts of the pseudo-hermaphrodite would indicate the sex, but this is not always so, and instances are known of individuals with congenital abnormality of the external sexual apparatus living happily as married women although microscopical examination of the genital gland has revealed the presence of spermatozoa. Internal Pseiido-Hermaphrodism In these cases tlie external organs of generation are normal and well developed, the secondary sexual characters—breast, distribution of pubic hair, and voice—are of the normal type, but the indi\adual possesses a large iiterus and Fallopian tubes. The condition is only discovered during operation or post-mortem examination. The reason for operation is frequently the presence of an inguinal hernia, in the sac of which the uterus is found, having been dragged there by the descent of the testis, which in these cases is attached to the uterus. In such individuals imperfect descent of the testes is common. Treatment.—^It is only when the uterus is foimd in the sac of an inguinal hernia tliat treatment is required ; then the uterus should be removed, and the canal closed as in the usual radical cure. External Pseudo-Hermaphrodism In the course of development of the external genitalia the male passes through a stage which closely resembles the female. The testes are not yet descended, the folds of the scrotum have not formed, and the penis is represented by the small genital eminence. Arrest of development at tliis stage will give rise to an individual with external genitalia resembling those of the female, although the genital glands are testes. The opposite condition, in which in an individual with ovaries the development continues till the male external organs are formed, is unloiown, although cases of hypertrophy of the clitoris are recog- nized. The testes not infrequently descend later, and are sometimes removed during an operation for supposed hernia, and the sex of the patient becomes recognized on microscopic examination of the genital gland.