THE SPLEEN no has been performed. An incision is made through the parietal peri- toneum under the left cupola of the diaphragm, and the peritoneum freed from the parietes until the spleen can be passed through the parietal peritoneum and couched in such a way as to lie in contact with the diaphragm over the area from which the peritoneum has been stripped and to which it should become adherent. It should be kept in position by suturing the stripped peritoneum together round the pedicle of the spleen. If firm adhesions quickly form, and the spleen is not greatly enlarged, this operation may be successful, but if not, the weight of the spleen, the stretched pedicle, and the constant movement of the diaphragm are factors which militate against fixation. Absolute rest on the back should be enforced for at least a month after the operation. TORSION OF THE SPLEEN The movable or wandering spleen, especially if enlarged, is very liable to become twisted on its vascular pedicle and to undergo stran- gulation through obstruction to the blood supply and, ultimately, gangrene with thrombosis of the splenic vessels. The condition is analogous to the twisting of the pedicle of an ovarian cyst or a re- tained testis, and the symptoms are very similar—acute abdominal pain and vomiting, and later, if unrelieved, general peritonitis. The strangulation may come on gradually, or quite suddenly, and, if a movable spleen has not been previously recognized, may so closely resemble acute perforation of a viscus or intestinal obstruction as to escape diagnosis before laparotomy. Treatment.—The only satisfactory method of treatment is that of splenectomy. Splenopexy, or simple relief of the strangula- tion, is liable to be followed by recurrence. It will be remem- bered that normally the spleen is slung beneath the arch of the diaphragm by the phrenico-colic ligament, and closely connected to the greater curvature of the stomach by the gastro-splenic omentum, and to the left kidney by the lieno-renal ligament. The tail of the pancreas lies in contact with the hilum of the spleen just below the point of entry of the large vessels. All these points should be borne in mind in dealing with torsion of a prolapsed spleen. HYPERTROPHY IDIOPATHIC AND MALARIAL HYPERTROPHY Chronic splenic enlargement without obvious cause is not common in this country, but White Hopkinson states that in Southern China and the Malay States it occurs in about 90 per cent, of the population. Some cases may be explained by past acute infective disease or by