871 MALIGNANT DISEASE ing conditions are unsuitable for resection, though they do not contra- indicate cystectomy, viz. (1) very extensive growths confined to the bladder, (2) rapidly growing malignant papilloma, (3) growths involving both ureters, the trigone or urethra, (4) intractable cystitis. Free exposure, the Trendelenburg position, and good illumination are necessary. The area of the bladder wall with the perivesical fat giving a margin of an inch all round the growth is removed. If this includes the ureteric orifi.ce the ureter is implanted into the upper part of the bladder wound. 2, Cystectomy.—The ureters must first be transplanted and the bladder removed at a subsequent operation. Implantation into the rectum, large intestine, urethra, vagina, sldn of the loin, or suprapubic wound, or bilateral nephrostomy, has been performed. Implantation into the vagina in the female and into the skin in the male has given the best results. In the male, cystectomy is performed by a combined perineo-abdominal method. The posterior surface of the prostate and seminal vesicles is first exposed by a curved prerectal incision. The patient is then placed in the Tredelenburg position, and the bladder exposed suprapubically. The peritoneum is stripped off, the ureter and large vessels exposed and clamped, and the bladder raised and detached from the prostate. The prostate may be removed with the bladder (cysto-prostatectomy). In the female (Pawlik's operation) the ureters are exposed from the vagina, cut across and implanted in the vaginal wall, and after some weeks the bladder is exposed and removed by a suprapubic operation. The urethra is implanted into the vagina, the outlet of which is closed. The vagina forms a reservoir for the urine. Results of operation.—In 30 cases in which I resected the bladder wall for malignant growth, there were 3 deaths (10 per cent.). In 10 of these, one ureter was transplanted. Watson collected 96 cases, with a mortality of 21'8 per cent. Kiimmel found that of 47 cases 10 were well sixteen, fifteen, eight, and six and a half years after operation. In 39 cases of cystectomy collected from the literature the operative mortality was 46'1 per cent. Only 10 cases could be traced, and in but 2 of these was the period longer than fifteen months ; one was above five years (Hogge) and one sixteen years (Pawlik). Palliative treatment—This is adopted when radical operation is contra-indicated. Hcematuria.—The patient is confuied to bed, and the foot of the bed is raised. Opium, ergot, and calcium lactate are given. The bladder is washed with large quantities of hot silver-nitrate solution (1 in 10,000), continuous irrigation being made through a double-way catheter. Tliis is followed by the instillation of a little adrenalin solution (1 in 1,000). If the bladder is distended with clot an attempt should be made to remove the clot by means of an evacuating