INTESTINAL INJURIES 459 be ignored in forming a diagnosis, as it may be due to gaseous dis- tension of tlie colon displacing tbe liver. Empliysema of the subperi- toneal tissue is rare, except in cases of rupture at the duodeno-jejunal junction, or of the colon behind the peritoneum. In the early stages the pulse has the character associated with shock, and, in the later stages, that associated with peritonitis. A rapid rise in the pulse-rate, especially if associated with a rise of temperature to 103° or 104° F., is usually of bad omen, as is also per- sistence of rapid, superficial breathing. Inability to pass fteces or flatus is usually present, but the patient often empties the lower bowel soon after tjie accident, and if the motion contains blood, an injury to the bowel is strongly suggested. Even after a careful analysis of all the symptoms it is often impossible to be certain whether or not the bowel has been ruptured, and it is seldom possible to localize the seat of the lesion when present. Treatment.—When the nature of the accident and the symp- toms presented by the patient render it probable that the intestine has been damaged, an exploratory operation should be performed, even although there is no conclusive evidence of visceral injury. Experience has shown that in many of these cases it is only when signs of peritonitis develop that a positive diagnosis can be made, and that operations carried out then are comparatively seldom successful. The best results have followed operations performed between seven and twelve hours after the accident, in the interval between the passing oft" of the initial shock and the onset of peritonitis. The abdomen is opened over the seat of injury if this can be determined, and the lesion in the bowel or blood-vessels sought for and dealt with. If a single tear is found, it is closed by Lembert sutures inserted at right angles to the long axis of the gut. More extensive lesions necessitate resection of portions of the bowel, with lateral anastomosis. The peritoneum is then cleansed, and the abdomen closed, with or without drainage as may be found necessary. OPEN WOUNDS Stab Wouxds The presence of a penetrating wound of the abdominal wall always raises the presumption of a punctured or incised wound of the intestine. If the puncture in the bowel is a small one, the contraction o{ the muscular coat may close it, or the mucous membrane may protrude and prevent the escape of intestinal contents. Nothing can be learnt by exploring the external wound with the probe, and this procedure is dangerous in that it may introduce infec- tive material deeper into the tissues, or may determine an escape of