243 SALIVARY CALCULI Some of them had discovered for themselves that pressure on the swelling caused a discharge of watery fluid into the mouth, with a temporary relief of the symptoms. On examination, the orifice of the duct of the affected gland was found red and inflamed, and, in some cases, stood up like a papilla. Pressure on the swelling caused first the extrusion of a plug of mucus from the duct, followed by a flow of watery saliva. In the way of treatment, relief is obtained by the application of dry heat exter- nally, with frequent use of hot moutli-washes combined with the peri- odical passage of a probe along the duct. Raymond Johnson followed up the history of his cases and found that the swelling usually took some months to disappear ; and in certain instances reappeared at intervals, although the attacks tended to decrease in severity. In his opinion, the enlargement of the gland is due entirely to obstruction, and not to any secondary inflammation in it. In some cases it is certain that if an inflamed duct becomes stenosed by fibrosis, the enlargement of the gland is then very chronic, if not absolutely persistent. The only measure that is of any avail is to slit up the fibrosed duct into the buccal cavity. SALIVARY CALCULI The genesis of a salivary calculus is so intimately connected with inflammation of the duct, tliat the condition may well be considered at this juncture. The mode of formation is analogous to that of calculi in other parts—the gall-bladder, for instance. As the result of the sialo-ductitis a plug of mucus containing bacteria is retained within the duct, and forms a nucleus for the successive deposits of inorganic salts, principally the phosphate and carbonate of lime. Calculi are more often found in the ducts of the sublingual and submaxillary glands than in that of the parotid. This is only wliat might be expected, seeing that their secretion is viscid and highly charged with salts, wliile that of the parotid is more watery. They are greyish-wliite in colour, and generally ovoid in shape, like the stone of an olive. Their surface is usually roughened. A salivary calculus may exist for a considerable time without giving rise to symptoms ; but as the stone gradually enlarges, it will eventu- ally obstruct the duct more completely. When this occurs, periodic enlargements of the aft'ected gland will be noticed, particularly at mealtimes, owing to the obstruction to the discharge of the secretion. The patient complains of pain, occasionally of a quite acute nature, so that French writers have given the name " coliques salivaires " to th ese attacks. Suppuration may occur round the stone, as it lies in the duct ; a circumstance which can be diagnosed by the periodic discharge of