192 THE TONGUE the degree of " mixed " infection that has occurred, and upon the presence or absence of trauma. The smooth chancre appears as a firm, hard, well-defined nodule, aptly compared in shape and feel to a nux vomica seed embedded in the tongue. The ulcerated form has a characteristic appearance like the bowl of a spoon, the induration being accompanied by more infiltration than in the preceding variety, and by pain and salivation. A fissured chancre has been described. Within ten days of the appearance of the primary lesion the sub- maxillary and submental lymphatic glands will be found enlarged ; and, as so often happens in the glandular enlargement associated with an extragenital chancre, the degree of swelling is considerable, and relatively greater than that of inguinal adenitis in genital chancres. The characteristic induration, the glandular enlargement, and the short history of the lesion make the diagnosis easy ; in a doubtful case it may be necessary to try Wassermann's reaction, or even to wait for symptoms of the generalized disease, before a definite opinion can be given. Active treatment of the disease must be undertaken as soon as the diagnosis has been made ; a mercurial mouth-wash should be ordered, and a little iodoform powder may be applied occasionally to the ulcerated varieties. The infectious character of the disease in this and in the secondary stages should be pointed out to the patient. I may add that soft chancre of the tongue has been described by Emery, Sabouraud, and Fournier. Secondary Stage In this stage, mucous nodules or patches are met with which present the characteristic pathological features of sypliilitic lesions, arising from localized proliferation of the connective-tissue cells, the resulting elevation being covered with tliickened epithelium. The proliferation of the connective-tissue cells extends over a wider area than in the primary lesion, and does not proceed to the same degree of development, the resulting papule or projection only just standing out from the surface of the tongue. Influenced, no doubt, by the agencies referred to above, the surface of the patch may ulcerate, even deeply, and the so-called secondary ulcer may be formed. These patches may be met with anywhere on the tongue or fauces, but they are more common on the dorsum in front of the circumvallate papillae ; they are also found on the under-surface. In their course they arise as small nodular elevations the size of a pea, and gradually extend to the size and shape of an almond. The