744 GALL-BLADDER AND BILE-DUCTS without an infective catarrhal process, may lead to the formation of cholesterin stones by simple deposition from the bile. When infection is added, there is an increased production of cholesterin, and also of calcium salts, which are deposited on the cholesterin nucleus. These, in conjunction with bile pigment, constitute the pigmented calculi. Though usually formed in the gall-bladder, calculi may originate in any of the extrahepatic or even intrahepatic ducts. Some autho- rities state that very small calculi deposited in the ducts may be washed into the gall-bladder by the normal bile current. The gross forms gall- stones usually take are illustrated in Plate 99. As a rule, no nucleus can be found, but with- out doubt small gall- stones often form the centres on which larger ones are built (Fig. 523, a). It is important to recognize that unabsorb- able ligatures and sutures may later form the start- ing-point of calculi (Fig. 523, b). Inspissated mu- cus, degenerated epithe- lium, and more rarely masses of bacteria, may constitute a nucleus round which bile pigments, etc., may be deposited. Pathological consequences of gall-stones.—Gall-stones are often found post-mortem which have exhibited no previous evidence of existence, but they may cause inflammation and sometimes obstruction. Inflammation depends on organisms which may be similar to those associated with the gall-stone origin, or may be the result of a secondary invasion. The Bacillus coli is most frequently found. In slight cases or very early stages the gall-bladder may show very little beyond microscopic changes in its walls, though the bile may be turbid or flocculent, and later the contents may become purulent, forming an " acute empyema of the gall-bladder." After a time the Fig. 523.- -Gall-stones, showing nuclei. (Actual size.) a. Calculus from the common duct. The quadrilateral stone forms the nucleus around which an oval stone has formed, this in turn being covered by amorphous material. d. Calculus Irom the gall-l)ladder, a catgut suture forming the nucleus. i^Fi oin a spfciincti kindly lent by Hamilton Vruniniond.)