SURGICAL ANATOMY 423 vertebra downwards to the right iliac fossa. Between its layers are conveyed the blood-vessels—intestinal branches of the superior mesenteric artery and vein ; the lymphatics, which are connected with numerous (40-150) mesenteric glands ; and the nerves of the superior mesenteric plexus, derived from the solar plexus. Some fibres from the vagus ultimately reach the intestine. The bowel itself is enclosed in the fi-ee border of the mesentery, which thus furnishes it with its serous covering. The ileo-csecal junction.—The opening between the small and the large intestine—the ileo-csecal orifice—is guarded by the ileo-csecal valve, comjjosed of two crescentic segments enclosing a slit-like opening, wliich, when the csecum is distended, is closed and prevents regurgitation of its contents into the small intestine. In all likeliliood, the circular fibres of the lowest part of the ileum form, as in some animals, a true muscular sphincter. A short distance below the valve, the vermiform process opens into the csecuni. The large intestine extends from the ceecum, which occupies the right iliac fossa, to the beginning of the rectum in the pelvic cavity. It is about 5| ft. in lengtli ; its widest part is the cfecum, which, when distended, has a diameter of about 3 in., and from this it gradually narrows till, at the lower end of the pelvic colon, it is only about H in. in diameter. When the abdomen is opened, the normal colon can be distinguished from the small intestine by its sacculated appearance, by the presence of three longitudinal muscular bands running along its surface, and by the appendices epiploicfc which project from its serous covering. When the bowel is greatly distended, and is covered with inflammatory exudate, it may be difficult to distinguish large from small intestine. Wliile it may be said that normally the colon arches round the small intestine, the coils of which lie witliin the concavity of its curve, those segments of the bowel that are completely enveloped by peri- toneum or that have a mesentery are subject to great variations in their disposition. The csecum, for example, instead of lying in the right iliac fossa, may be found in the right lumbar region, even as high as the under aspect of the liver, or it may hang down into the pelvic cavity. The transverse colon, wliich normally arches across the abdomen in the upper part of the umbilical region, frequently dips downwards as a U- or V-shaped loop, reaching sometimes to the pubes, and thus increasing the sharpness of the angles at the hepatic and splenic flexures. When distended with gas, it may rise in front of the stomach. The pelvic colon also varies considerably in lengtli and position. It may form a short, horseshoe-shaped loop of not more than 6 or 8 in., or may be two or three times as long, and be thrown into several curves, assuming an S- or j£2-shape, in