THE TONGUE i66 1. The apical set pass from the submucous network on to the genio-hyo-giossus; some of the vessels pierce the genio-hyoid and terminate in the submental glands and the inferior cervical glands. This latter fact is of supreme importance, since in malignant disease of the tip of the tongue both the submental and submaxillary regions may escape, the infection being carried directly to the glands which lie along the internal jugular vein at the point where it is crossed by the omo-hyoid muscle. 2. The lateral set descend from the sides of the tongue and ter- minate mainly in the submaxillary lymph-glands ; these are situated not only in relation to the submaxillary salivary gland, but are actually embedded in its substance—a condition which necessitates removal of the gland in mahgnant disease. A few lymphatic channels pass directly to the superior deep cervical glands. The lymph from the submaxillary region passes into these cervical glands, one of which, situated at the level of the bifurcation of the carotid, is especially important, and is often described as the principal gland of the tongue. 3. The basal set arise in the submucous tissue and lymphoid follicles of the posterior part and pass deeply to the superior deep cervical glands. 4. The mediayi set arise from the submucous network in the middle line in front of the circumvallate papillae. The vessels pass deeply between the genio-hyo-glossi, and finally, after piercing this muscle and the hyo-glossus, end in the submaxillary glands. A point of special importance is to be noted in connexion with this median set, namely, that according to Piersol they may pass to either side of the middle line, thus accounting for infection of the glands of the neck on the side opposite to that upon which a cancerous ulcer is found. The lymphatics from the floor of the mouth have a termination similar to the termination of those of the tongue. Occasional glands will be found embedded in the substance of the hyo-glossus. Methods of examination of the tongue.-—In examining the tongue for the many surgical diseases which attack it, both inspection and palpation are necessary. In the case of the former a good light is essential, and the patient should preferably be sitting opposite to the surgeon. If daylight should not be available, or if swelling of the tongue should impair the view, a laryngeal mirror will afford great assistance, especially in cases of deep haemor- rhage, or, better still, a small portable lamp which can be sterilized may be introduced directly into the mouth ; an old cystoscope acts admirably.