686 RECTUM AND ANAL CANAL in the fossa may be appreciated both externally and internally. If allowed to progress, redness and oedema of the skin, and eventually fluctuation, will appear. Treatment.—An acute inflammatory mass in the ischio-rectal fossa should be incised at once, even before the presence of pus is certain. Early operation will materially shorten convalescence and perhaps prevent the subsequent formation of a fistula. Under antesthesia a curved incision is made, parallel to the anal margin over the most prominent part of the swelling, and extended anteriorly and posteriorly beyond the limits of the swelling. A second incision is made at right angles to this outwards, well beyond the limits of the induration. The finger is inserted into the cavity, and all septa broken down. Free opening is necessary to prevent the burrowing of pus, which so constantly results from any smaller incision and leads to persistent sinus or fistula. The abscess usually heals satisfactorily under such treatment, but a sinus may persist, or a fistula form, and require further treatment. At the time of evacuating the abscess a communication with the rectum may be present, usually through or close to the space between the two sphincters. Should this be so, or if merely a thin stratum of mucosa separate the abscess from the bowel cavity, the case should be treated as fistula or cutaneous sinus (p. 689). 3. Submucous Abscess An abscess in the submucosa of the lower rectum shows a marked tendency to track towards the anal margin and open there, but also burrows to some extent laterally in the bowel wall. Usually tliis abscess bursts of its own accord, but if seen before this occurs it should be opened at its lower margin. Heahng is generally rapid, but occasionally a submucous track persists and should be freely laid open in the longitudinal direction, care being taken to check all haemorrhage, which may be free from one of the terminal branches of the superior hasmorrhoidal artery. 4. Pelvi-Rectal Abscess This abscess is a suppurative cellulitis of the coimective tissue between the levator ani muscle and the peritoneum. This tissue is continuous with that between the layers of the pelvic mesocolon and the broad ligament, and also with that surrounding the prostate and the neck of the bladder. Disease of the latter organs, rather than of the rectum, is more frequently responsible for a pelvi-rectal abscess. But occasionally ulceration of the rectum, malignant disease, or perforation by a foreign body may cause an infection of the con- nective tissue surrounding the bowel above the levator ani.