1025 WERTHEIM'S OPERATION the vagina. The utero-sacral folds are then divided, the vireter being protected by the fingers during the process. The uterus is now prin- cipally tethered by the strong lateral cervico-pelvic ligaments that sweep out on either side under the ureters like a pair of buttresses. The ureters being held out of the way, these ligaments are clamped by angular forceps and divided. The uterus riding up, the bladder is still further separated from the vagina until the latter can be clamped well below the limit of the growth. For this purpose the Berkeley- Bonney vaginal clamp (Fig. 592) will be found the most convenient. The vagina is divided below the clamp either with the cautery knife or with a scalpel. All bleeding-points and previously-clamped tissues are ligatured, and the operator then proceeds to ablate such of the parametric and paravaginal tissue as has escaped removal with the uterus. The most important part of this is a sheet of tissue against the side wall of the pelvis at the upper border of which runs Fig. 592.—Berkeley-Bonney vaginal clamp. the obliterated h}'pogastric artery. When this sheet is removed the obturator fossa and the glands there are exposed. The latter should be removed. The glands along the iliac arteries are then stripped off, whether enlarged or not, and all bleeding is finally arrested. The vagina is left open for drainage, and the operation completed by sewing the anterior peritoneal flap to the front of the rectum and back of the pelvis. Inability to empty the bladder always follows the ojjeration for a few weeks, but never persists. Advantages and disadvantages.—The surgeon can inspect the con- dition from above, and proceed no further if he finds the operation impracticable; he can excise the whole adjacent lymphatic tract with the primary growth ; by removing the growth encapsuled in the upper part of the vagina he minimizes operative cancer infection ; the possibility of removal is greater, and the number of patients alive five years afterwards is higher than by any other method. Against these advantages may be set the high primary mortality of the operation—about 18 per cent- for all cases, and the troublesome complications, such as ureteral, vesical, or rectal fistulse, that sometimes follow it. In estimating the mortality, however, the enormously 3 n