INTESTINAL FISTULA 455 Treatment.—It is evident tliat if a fistula is associated with some irremovable disease of the bowel, such as carcinoma or tuber- culosis, no attempt need be made to close it. If, on the other hand, it has resulted from some condition which has been overcome, such as an appendicular abscess, it should be dealt with. It is to be borue in mind that those fistulfe that are lined with granulation tissue show a marked tendency to close spontaneously so long as the bowel beyond is unobstructed. If, after a reasonable time, this fails to take place, the patient should be confuied to bed, the diet regulated so as to leave a minimum of residual material to pass through, and the granulation tissue gently scraped with a sharp spoon. If there is an abscess cavity in the track of the fistula, this should be opened up, and the wound packed lightly with iodoform worsted to induce it to heal from the bottom. Purgative medicines should be avoided, and the bowels emptied by enemata if necessary. When the fistula is lined by mucous membrane, spontaneous closure seldom takes place, especially if there is a double loop of bowel with an intervening spur as in an artificial anus. It is then necessary to separate the bowel from the parietes by dissection, and to invaginate the aperture by sutures. If the opening is a large one and its closure by invagination unduly narrows the lumen, the segment of bowel implicated should be resected and a lateral anastomosis made. Internal Intestinal Fistula As a result of disease, particularly in malignant and tuberculous affections of the abdomen, fistulous communications are occasionally established between the intestine and other viscera. Sometimes an adventitious opening forms between two coils of bowel, but this is serious only if the upper opening is high in the jejvuium and the lower one well down the bowel ; in this case a long tract of the intestine is short-circuited, and is lost for purposes of absorption, with the result that the patient rapidly emaciates. The stools may contain unaltered bile and imperfectly digested food materials. A commimication is sometimes established between the stomach and the transverse colon as a result of malignant disease spreading from one of these organs to the other. Undigested food may appear in the stools, or faecal matter may be vomited, with eructation of intestinal gases. In malignant or tuberculous disease of the pelvic colon or rectum, and as a complication of chronic inflammatory diseases of the colon associated with diverticula, fistulse may form with the bladder or urethra. This not only causes great discomfort, but is attended with considerable risk to life from the spread of infection to the kidneys. Operative measures for the closure of such fistidte are attended