620 HERNIA sac ; (2) closure of the inguinal canal; and (3) completion of the operation. 1. The incision extends from a point just external to the pubic spine outwards, parallel to and slightly above Poupart's Hgament, for a distance of 4 in. or more. In the case of a scrotal hernia it may be necessary to extend it downwards over the outer aspect of the scrotum, but this should be avoided, if possible, for three reasons : firstly, for fear of sepsis ; secondly, on account of the troublesome oozing following division of the hernial coverings here; and thirdly, because of the difficulty of bandaging the scrotum. The aponeurosis is next split from the external abdominal ring outwards, and the edges held widely apart by flat retractors—not by pressure forceps, which tend to tear the edges and make it difficult to cover a thick cord or implant a filigree. The spermatic cord is raised from its bed, and the sac sought. If three fingers are passed beneath the cord, and the coverings are di- vided in its length by a light touch of the knife and then peeled upwards and downwards with the point of a pair of dissect- mg lorceps, there will be no dimcuity in recognizing the transverse white fold which marks the fundus of the sac. Then, avoiding injury of the cord-like vas, the sac is stripped from the surrounding tissues as high as its origin from the parietal peritoneum, and the fundus, held up by three pairs of pressure forceps, is opened. A finger is introduced, the sac is explored, any adherent omentum being detached, and the bowel reduced; lateral saccuK must be dissected out and removed with the sac. The finger being still kept in the latter, to prevent the escape of con- tents, the neck is transfixed by a needle carrying a ligature, and is firmly tied off as close to the abdominal wall as possible. The sac is then removed at a short distance from the ligature. The dangers to be avoided at this stage are as follows : (a) Puncture of the bladder, where this organ lies close to the neck of the sac. [h) Transfixion of the bowel from omitting to guard it with the finger, (c) Tyiug-in a loop of bowel or piece of omentum