494 THE INTESTINES examination. The conditions for which it is most liable to be mis- taken are cancer of the bowel, ileo-csecal tuberculosis, colitis, and recurrent appendicitis. Treatment.—-The only treatment is to open the abdomen and deal with the invagination. Hitherto the results obtained by resection have been satisfactory. VOLVULUS The term " volvulus " is applied to a condition in which a segment of bowel is twisted on its mesenteric axis. It is one of the most fatal of all forms of obstruction. Volvulus of the Pelvic Colon The pelvic colon is the segment sf bowel implicated in about 75 per cent, of cases. Etiology.—This portion of the colon, which approximates in shape to the letter il, is rendered liable to be twisted by the fact that its mesentery is comparatively narrow in proportion to the length of the bowel so that the two ends of the loop are approximated. The loop varies in length from about 8 in. to 2 ft., and the longer the loop in proportion to the width of its mesentery, the greater is the liability to volvulus. The secondary changes in the mesocolon which further predispose to volvulus are—(1) elongation, such as may result, for example, from chronic constipation—the overloaded bowel by its weight hanging down into the pelvis and dragging upon the mesentery ; (2) narrowing of the base of attachment to the sacrum, resulting in closer approxi- mation of the two ends of the il-loop, produced, for instance, by inflammatory adhesions, by changes occurring in infected lymph- glands, or as a result of chronic inflammatory or ulcerative conditions in the bowel itself ; (3) fixation of the parietal attachment, as a result of thickening or adhesions due to inflammatory changes, forming an axis around which the bowel readily rotates. The actual twisting is usually brought about by irregular peristalsis, induced, for example, by overloading of the pelvic colon in chronic constipation, or by efforts on the part of the bowel to expel a hardened mass of fgeces, or by an excessive accumulation of flatus. The mere weight of an overloaded sigmoid may cause it to fall into the pelvis and twist its base. A violent straining eilort, such as making a heavy lift, a sudden alteration in the intra-abdominal pressure, or even a change in the attitude of the patient may induce rotation. As a rule, the upper part of the sigmoid rotates downwards and forwards, so that the rectum lies behind the twisted loop (Fig. 420). Less commonly, it passes backwards, and the rectum lies in front