248 THE SALIVARY GLANDS A. Tumours of Epithelial Origin A pure adenoma of the salivary glands is so rare (Nasse has reported four cases) that it demands only passing mention. It grows slowly, and on section resembles the normal structure of the gland atypically arranged. It is possible that several of the cases described as hypertrophy of the parotid were in reaUty adenomas. Carcinoma attacks the salivary glands, usually the parotid, in two forms, the medullary or adeno-carcinoma, and the scirrhus. Adeno-carcinoma may occur at any age, but generally does so in early adult life. A rapidly growing tumour develops. It is firm and elastic in consistence. Ulceration of the overlying skin and subsequent fungation are common features if the condition is allowed to progress. Facial paralysis, of varying degrees, is usual, according to whether the main trunk of the nerve or some of its branches are involved. Scirrhus in this region is closely analogous to the mammary form. It attacks elderly patients, grows slowly, forms a densely hard tumour, and the overlying skin soon becomes fixed to the growth and puckered. Metastatic deposits are found in the lymphatic glands in both varieties. The sublingual gland may also be the seat of carcinoma. In fact, some authorities believe that all carcinomas of the floor of the mouth are derived from tliis source. The prognosis with regard to life is bad in either case, but worse in the medullary form. The diagnosis can only be made with certainty by removing a portion of the growth and subjecting it to microscopical examination. As soon as the diagnosis is certain, no time should be lost in enu- cleating the affected gland completely, if this is still feasible. It can rarely be done if the surface is already ulcerated. In this case the outlook is very bad indeed, but improvement is sometimes produced by the application of X-rays or of radium, or by zinc ionization. B. Tumours of Connective-Tissue Origin The innocent tumours of this class are exceedingly rare. Clinically, their characteristics do not differ from those presented when they occur in other parts of the body. An accurate diagnosis is rarely arrived at before the tumour is removed and examined histologically. Sarcoma.—Many forms of sarcoma have been described, as the table of classification shows. Pure sarcomas, whether round- or spindle-celled, form rapidly growing ill-defined tumours which are difficult to distinguish from subacute inflammation. The mixed forms, particularly the fibro-sarcomas, are more often encapsuled and present as localized swellings, which can be enucleated in their capsule from their surroundings. It is said that if this is done completely they do not tend to recur. I am sceptical of the truth of this statement.