FOREIGN BODIES IN THE BLADDER 877 In the practice of surgeons who perform lithotrity, suprapubic or perineal lithotomy shows a high death-rate, as all the gravest cases are treated in this way. Thus, Freyer's statistics show a perineal lithotomy mortality of 18-2 and a suprapubic lithotomy mortality of 12-75 per cent. When, however, the sa))ie cases are treated in the two operations, the results are less disproportionate. Assenfeldt, in -160 cases of suprapubic lithotomy, found a death-rate of 3-6 per cent. FOREIGN BODIES Foreign bodies reach the bladder by the urethra or through tlie bladder wall. They may result from surgical operations. Silk ligatures used in operations upon the bladder or pelvic viscera, or the flexible guide of a urethrotome, are examples. Foreign bodies are frequently introduced by tlie patient. The mucous membrane becomes inflamed at the points of contact with the foreign body, and ulceration and even penetration of the bladder wall may follow. The foreign body becomes encrusted with phos- phatic deposit, and a large phosphatic stone is formed. The symptoms are similar to those of stone in the l&ladder, and the diagnosis is made from the history, hy i-adiographic examination, and by cystoscopy. Treatment.—Urethral operations are most suitable in the female subject, but are also feasible in some cases in the male. In the female a large Kelly's tube is used after dilatation of the urethral orifice, and the patient placed in the Trendelenburg position. The foreign body is seized with fine forceps and removed, a finger in the vagina assisting the manoeuvre. In the male, Luys' direct cystoscope should be used. When these methods fail (50 per cent.) the bladder is opened suprapubically, the foreign body removed, and, unless severe cystitis with ulceration is present, the wound is closed. PERICYSTITIS AND PERIVESICAL ABSCESS Etiology.—Pericystitis may be secondary to disease or injury of the l)ladder, or it may arise in the neighbouring organs or structures, such as the urethra, rectum, prostate, appendix, or pelvic bones. Men are more frequently affected than women. Two forms are recognized: (1) Chronic fibro-lipomatous pericystitis with or without points of suppuration; the bladder is surrounded, especially at its base and around the seminal vesicles and lower ends of the ureters, by a thick fibro-lipomatous mass. (2) Perivesical suppuration and abscess ; in the diffuse form the areolar tissue is widely infiltrated, in the circumscribed form the pus is thick and foul. The abscess may rupture into the bladder, rectum, peritoneum, or bowel, and a recto- or entero-vesical fistula follow. Symptoms. 1. Pericystitis from bladder disease.—There is a greatly thickened bladder wall, and perhaps an abdominal tumour. When a diver- ticulum is present it may be demonstrated by radiography after distension of the bladder with bismuth emulsion. Localized perivesical suppuration may develop slowly and escape recog- nition. An acute abscess may rupture into the bladder, causing an acute cystitis. The temperature is high, the patient is seriously ill and may have repeated rigors. A tumour is found on suprapubic or bimanual palpation, which may be mistaken for malignant growth, or a boggy mass can be felt from the rectum. The abscess may rupture into the rectum or bowel, and a recto- or entero-vesical fistula forms with discharge of faeces and gas by the urethra. Prevesical abscess, or abscess of the space of Retzius, may be acute or