252 THE SALIVARY GLANDS all surgeons. Butlin, in an interesting paper in the Lancet (1904), admitted that recurrence had taken place in several cases in which he thought he had completely removed the primary growth. Further, the recurrent tumour was in nearly all cases more rapidly growing than the primary one. The probable explanation is that an apparently complete enucleation is rarely so in fact. Processes of the growth, so small as to be inappreciable to the finger, invade the capsule, and are left behind. Under the influence of the altered tissue tension resulting from the operation, they take on a new and rapid growth, and, when seen on a subsequent occasion, are often found to be in- operable. It is therefore essential in all cases to remove the whole capsule with the growth. In view of these facts it would seem reason- able to remove the entire submaxillary gland when this is the situation of a mixed tumour. When enucleating a parotid tumour, care must, of course, be taken not to injure the facial nerve. It is better not to search directly for the nerve, but merely to avoid wounding any branches wliich happen to become exposed during the operation. Operative technique.—Mention has been made in connexion with malignant tumours of complete removal of the parotid and sub- maxillary glands. A brief account of the technique of these operations will therefore be added. The parotid is best exposed by a T-shaped incision, the vertical part extending from an inch above the zygoma down directly in front of the tragus to a point an inch below the angle of the jaw. A second incision is made extending forwards from this at right angles about half an inch below the zygoma. Two flaps of skin can thus be dissected up, and the gland exposed. The external carotid artery should be found at the bottom of the wovmd and divided between two ligatures. No hard-and-fast rule can be laid down about the actual enucleation of the gland, but it is generally best to begin below and work upwards. The greatest difficulty will be experienced in removing the posterior deep part which extends down to the spine of the sphenoid. If all vessels are tied as they are met, and the field of operation thus kept bloodless, the gland can nearly always be removed entire by the exercise of patience and care. The facial nerve must of necessity be sacrificed. The lymphatic glands which drain the parotid should, if possible, be taken away at the same operation. The extirpation of the submaxillary gland is a more simple procedure. An incision is made parallel to and below the mandible, curving slightly downwards in the centre. After exposing the gland the facial artery should be sought for at its lower border, and tied between two ligatures. When this is done, the gland can be enucleated without danger or difficulty.