FEMORAL HERNIA 597 and the inner, which is loiowii as the femoral or crural canal, is unoccupied save for a lymphatic gland and a small plug of extraperi- toneal fat. It is along this inner canal that the contents of a femoral or crural hernia descend. Its mouth is known as the crural ring." The anterior Avail of tlie canal formed by transversalis fascia is covered by the falciform " ligament," derived from the iliac portion of the fascia lata, whilst beliind the posterior wall (formed of iliacus fascia) passes the pubic portion of the fascia lata. The outer wall is the septum between the canal and the femoral vein, whilst to the inner side of the inner wall lies Gimbernat's ligament above and the pectineus muscle below (internally and posteriorly). Overlying the lower end of the canal is the saphenous "opening" in the fascia lata of the thigh; this is closed by the cribriform fascia, wliich transmits some lymphatics and veins. The " crural ring " is closed by a thick mass of areolar and often fatty tissue, the septum crurale. The immediate relations of this ring are as follows :ѥ Internally : Gimbernat's ligament, the little, sharp-edged, triangular band of fascia wliich fills in the pubic angle between the inner end of Poupart's ligament and the horizontal ramus of the pubes. Exter- nally : The femoral vein. Anteriorly: Poupart's ligament. Posteriorly: The horizontal ramus of the pubes. In the course of its descent, a femoral hernia, lea\ang the abdomen through the crural ring, passes down to the bottom of the crural canal, and, taking the line of least resistance, passes forwards through the saphenous "opening" and appears as a swelling in the groin. In its passage, therefore, it acquires the following coverings, which are given in order of dissection, viz. (a) slcin ; (b) superficial fascia ; (c) cribriform fascia ; {d) crural sheath ; (e) septum crurale ; (/) extra- peritoneal fascia ; (g) sac of the hernia. If Hamilton Russell's theory be accepted, the sac of a femora] hernia is always of congenital origin, and may occupy one of three positions ; this is due to the fact that the peritoneal process from which it is formed is, in the course of the growth of the limb-bud in the embryo, drawn out from the abdomen along the line of the vessels proceeding from the femoral artery. Thus at times the sac will be found passing inwards along the course of the external pudic, upwards along that of the superficial epigastric, or outwards following the superficial circumflex ihac artery. A compromise between the latter two positions is the more common, the sac passing out of the saphenous opening and then turning upwards and outwards to a position between the two latter vessels. At times more than one sac may be present; this is said to be one of the chief causes of the recurrence of femoral hernia after operation, one of the sacs being overlooked at the time. As regards frequency, femoral hernia is much more common in