THE SPLEEN io6 by tenderness in the left subcostal region. If the haemorrhage is abundant, a shifting dullness in the flanks soon follows—a valuable sign when obtained. If, when the signs of fluid are increasing, the dullness in the right flank can be made to shift by a change of position^ while that in the left remains constant, an injury to the spleen is strongly suggested. In many cases of severe abdominal injury it it is quite impossible at first to arrive at any certain diagnosis, and it may be difiicult to decide whether a patient is suffering only from severe shock, or from collapse due to a concealed haemorrhage.^ Treatment.—In all cases of suspected injury of the spleen, exploratory laparotomy is imperative if there are signs of internal haemorrhage. The question whether laparotomy should be immediate,, or whether reaction from the shock and collapse incident to the injury should be awaited, can only be decided by the circumstances of the- individual case. Speaking generally, delay is dangerous. Frequently, by slowing of the heart's action and temporary clotting, natural arrest of haemor- rhage occurs, and encourages the surgeon to hope that by masterly inactivity he may allow the arrest to become permanent without subjecting the patient to the additional danger of operation ; too often, however, recovery from shock leads to a recurrent and not seldom fatal flood of haemorrhage. On the other hand, cases occur in which, after the initial haemor- rhage has ceased, recovery without recurrence follows. There are two specimens in the Museum of St. Bartholomew's Hospital which demonstrate repair of the spleen after rupture from injury. One (Fig. 289) is the spleen of a woman aged 30, who, falling 30 ft. from a window, fractured her femur and died ten days later, but without symptoms of abdominal injury. At the autopsy it was apparent that the spleen had been torn across, and a firm white scar had formed (\ in. thick), uniting the lacerated surfaces. There was also an encapsuled collection of blood (partly fluid) around the spleen, and the subperitoneal tissue in the neigh- bourhood was stained with blood pigment. The other specimen (2308b) was removed post mortem from a woman aged 39, who was run over by an omnibus and died sixty hours later. The spleen had been torn on the outer surface near the upper extremity, and the rent was closed by a firm clot. Doubtless similar specimens are to be met with elsewhere. Each case must be judged on its merits. Some cases are hopeless from the first, but in most the collapse resulting from the loss of blood opens a loophole for recovery, although, as already stated, a recurrence of haemorrhage usually follows. Occasionally the spleen may be injured and yet no symptoms of haemorrhage occur for many hours or even days after the accident. Possibly in some of these cases the 1 See Vol. I., p. 305.