336 THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM and it is important to remember that stab wounds of the lower chest are not infrequently complicated by injury to the stomach. Symptoms.—These will depend to a certain extent upon the contents of the stomach at the time of the infliction of the injury, and the size of the wound. Sudden leakage of gastric contents into the peritoneal cavity will be followed by the usual signs accompanying perforation of an abdominal viscus. In a few cases the escape of gastric contents from the wound, their presence upon the instrument inflicting the injury, or hsematemesis may render the diagnosis certain. But it must be remembered that the stomach may be wounded and no symptoms be present at an early stage, also that htematemesis may occur from bruising or laceration of the mucous membrane of the stomach without penetration. Treatment.—If it is certain from the symptoms that the wound is a penetrating one, it should be opened up and a careful examination made, remembering, if a wound is found on the anterior surface of the stomach, that the posterior surface may have been simultaneously damaged. The wound in the stomach should be closed by a continuous stitch of fine chromic gut through all its coats, this being buried by a Lembert stitch of silk, Pagenstecher, or linen thread. Any extravasated contents should be gently wiped away. If there is extensive soiling of the peritoneum, a tube should be put in above the pubes ; if general peritonitis is present, the appropriate treatment should be adopted. Prognosis.—If operation is carried out within the first twenty- four hours the prognosis is good ; recovery took place in 8 of the 9 recorded cases. Gunshot Wounds It is rare for the stomach to be injured alone in wounds of this nature. Thus, out of 126 cases collected by Forgue and Jeanbrau, in which the lesion was verified post-mortem or by operation, in only 32 did it suffer alone. In about 10 per cent, of these cases only one perforation existed; and in 3 cases the bullet lodged in the stomach. In wounds in war, from modern rifles the bullet usually passes through the body unless turned aside by bone. On the other hand, in the gunshot injuries of civil life the wounds are large and the bullet usually remains in the body. Symptoms.—The most important are shock and hsematemesis. Diagnosis.—This may be possible from the presence of the above symptoms, but all penetrating abdominal wounds in civil life must be explored even if symptoms are absent. Treatment.—The abdomen should be opened through a median