995 RECTOGELE—VAGINITIS these together in the middle line under the bladder before the vaginal wound is closed. In either case, perineoplasty must be performed as well, or the condition will recur. RECTOGELE A rectocele is a protrusion of the recto-vaginal septum and posterior vaginal wall through the vaginal orifice. It is constantly associated with a deficient perineum, and frequently with cystocele and prolapse of the uterus. Etiology.—The deformity is due to two factors—(1) deficiency of the perineum, (2) relaxation of the posterior part of the pelvic floor. The rectum falls forwards on the posterior vaginal wall, which, unsup- ported by a perineum, stretches and protrudes. Clinical features.—The patient complains of " something falling." In most cases cystocele is present as well. The protruded mass, when large, may become very sore or even ulcerated from the friction of the clothes. Diagnosis.—On inspection it may be impossible to tell whether the pink swelling is a cystocele or a rectocele, but digital examination will immediately decide the question. Treatment.—A pessary may be employed to retain the redundant vaginal wall, but if the perineum is deficient it may be impossible to keep the instrument in place. The best treatment is perineoplasty, perhaps combined in severe cases with excision of a portion of the posterior vaginal wall (fosterior colporrhaphy). INFLAMMATION OF THE VAGINA VAGINITIS Inflammation of the vagina is best classified according to its cause, as follows :— Streptococcal and Pneumococcal Vaginitis (Erysipelatous or Gangrenous Vaginitis) This is chiefly seen in some of the more virulent forms of puerperal sepsis. The appearance varies, the surface being erysipelatous, diph- theroid, or frankly sloughing. Treatment is that of streptococcal infections generally. Hydrogen peroxide (10 vols.) is the best application if necrosis has occurred, otherwise biniodide of mercury solution (1-2,000) should be used. Staphylococcal Vaginitis (Simple Vaginitis) Simple vaginitis may be due to injuries, operations, excessive chemical applications, the prolonged wearing of foul pessaries, or the