THE BLADDER 868 Diagnosis.—Symptomless hsematuria in a young or middle- aged adult is usually due to papilloma of the bladder, to " essential " renal hsematuria, or to early renal growth. The presence of tube casts and renal colic from the passage of clots indicates a renal source. Portions of vesical papilloma may be passed in the urine, or may be removed in the eye of a catheter. The diagnosis is made with the cystoscope. Cystoscopy.—A papilloma is seen as a sessile or pedunculated, round or irregular tumour, with tendrils of varying length, which float in the fluid medium. A leash of vessels passes up to the growth from the trigone. A large growth may obscure the cystoscope light. Treatment. 1. Non-operative.—Daily instillations for six months of 2 oz. of nitrate of silver solution (1 in 3,500 at 100° F.) or resorcin (2 per cent.), by means of a Guyon's syringe, have been advocated by Casper and others. Necrosis of the tumours has apparently occasionally followed. 2. Operative, (a) Removal through the urethra (" intravesical opera- tion ").—This is carried out by means of a Mtze operating cystoscope or by Luys' direct cystoscope, or in the female through the Luys or Kelly cystoscope. The papilloma is snared by a fine platinum wire, and left in the bladder to be expelled with the urine. Many sittings may be required, small portions being snared at a time. The growths must be favourably situated for easy access. Subsequent hsemorrhage is sometimes severe. Good results have been obtained with small easily accessible growths by some surgeons. The mortality in Wein- rich's collected cases was 1 in 150, and 71 per cent, had no recurrence after three or four years. (6) Removal hy open operation.—This should be adopted in all cases. If multiple papillomas are present a chart showing their number and position should be drawn at a preliminary cystoscopy. Suprapubic cystotomy is performed, and the patient placed in the Trendelenburg position. The growths are fully exposed by proper retractors and a powerful head-lamp. With special scissors and forceps the growth is removed with the mucous membrane on which it is set, the cut edges stitched together, and the interior of the bladder treated with silver nitrate solution (4 to 6 per cent.), and drained with a large suprapubic tube. For some years after the operation the bladder must be inspected at intervals for recurrence. At the earliest appearance of a recurrent bud of papilloma it should be destroyed with the electric cautery through Luys' direct cystoscope. When the bladder is filled with large masses of papillomatous growth the contents should be cleared out, and the hot douche, cautery, adrenalin, or other means used for stopping the bleeding.