RECTUM AND ANAL CANAL 698 Although it has been customary to assign to tertiary syphilis a promi- nent place in the etiology of chronic rectal ulceration, probably it is but seldom an effective cause. There is a decidedly rare form of diffuse gummatous infiltration, called by Pournier the " ano-rectal sypliiloma." Commencing in the submucous tissue, it involves a considerable part of the rectal wall, Avith or without implication of the anal canal. Ulceration may or may not occur. The bowel wall is converted into a rigid and much thickened tube, which later becomes diminished in size by fibrous contraction. It appears to be analogous to the diffuse syphilitic deposit which occurs in other viscera, e.g. the liver and testicles. Anti- syphilitic treatment in the early stage gives good results, but later, when fibrosis has occurred, is of little value. Chancroids {see Vol. I., p. 834) occur on the skin in the vicinity of the anus. They are much more common in the female, and arise by direct infection from the vulval discharge. The sores are multiple, and in appearance, prognosis and treatment are similar to those occurring on the genitals. Occasionally, the ulcerating chancroid may, without doubt, extend into the rectum. According to some, this is one cause of chronic ulceration of the rectum, but it must be a decidedly rare one. Dysentery.—Many different forms of rectal rdceration have been ascribed to dysentery, but the term should be reserved for cases caused by the organisms of tropical dysentery. The rectum may be involved in true dysentery, but probably only in association with disease in tlie colon. The ulcerations are then superficial, and in their healing give rise to but little contraction. It is stated, however, that occasionally a stricture productive of symptoms may follow. Actinomycosis may very rarely occur in the perianal skin and in the anal canal. ULCERATION Septic ulceration of rectal sinuses—When well de- veloped, the sinuses j^eculiarly lend themselves to the lodgment of faecal material, which may cause abrasions and open the path for septic infection. Though occasionally two or more may be present, the ulcer is usually single, situated dorsally, and may be as large as a three- penny piece. Symptoms may be absent; but sometimes pain radiating around the perineum and down the thighs is present without any relation to defaecation ; it differs from that of a fissure, since the ulcer is above the level of the external sphincter muscle. Sometimes there are traces of blood and pus in the motions, and pruritus ani may be present. Discovery of an ulcer in a sinus, concealed by a swollen valve, may be difficult without anaesthesia ; hence a faulty diagnosis of