THE USE OF AN OBTURATOR i49 Treatment of Cleft Palate The number of cases in which the partial or total closure of the cleft by suture cannot be attempted must be very small indeed, but occasionally the surgeon meets with one in which the gap is so wide and the available tissue so scanty, either as a result of the magnitude of the deformity or of cicatricial contraction after an operation that has failed, that he has to consider seriously the advisability of having a suitable obtur tor fitted rather than subject the child to an opera- tive procedure which, from the nature of the cleft or of the tissues bounding it, is doomed to failure from the outset. Though the use of an obturator gives the best result in connexion with a cleft in the hard palate alone, its employment for this purpose is seldom required, for such clefts can nearly always be closed by operation. At the present time such an instrument is rarely employed, and then only for irremediable defects in the soft palate, when its function is to close the naso-pharynx and so improve a defective articulation. The appliance consists of a dental plate (held in position by the permanent molars), to which is attached either a soft elastic balloon (Schlitsky) that fills the naso-pJiarynx and adapts itself to the changes in shape that occur therein during the act of phonation, or a flexible indiarubber velum (Moriarty) that hangs down in front of the soft palate, and is blown against the posterior wall of the pharynx when the air is compressed in the buccal cavity. Except in rare cases, when any means are justified in securing an improve- ment in phonation and deglutition, mechanical devices should only be used as a complement to surgical treatment. Age at which the operation should be performed. —This important consideration has been, and still is, the subject of much argument. Surgeons experienced in the treatment of cleft palate may be divided into two classes : those wlio favour operation within the first three months of life, and those who defer treatment until the third to the sixth year. Both bring forward analogies, arguments, and proofs in favour of their conten- tions, and each school criticizes severely the methods advocated by the other. In discussing the advantages and disadvantages of the early and late operations, it should always be remembered tliat the cleft is only one manifestation of a developmental error that has involved not only the soft parts but also the bony walls of the oral and nasal cavities, so that the mechanical closure of the cleft at an early age, no matter how perfect it be, seldom confers upon tlie patient a normal speaking apparatus. The same considera- tion applies with even greater force to the result of the late operation, for the child who passes tlie first few years of his life