OPERATIONS FOR INGUINAL HERNIA 619 blood, serum, and liquid fat into an oj^eration wound is, in the first place, to furnish a nidus for bacterial growth, wliich is especially favoured in the vicinity of the groins and genitals ; secondly, it separates the layers of the abdominal wall near the wound ; and, tliirdly, it increases the amount of fibrous tissue by organization of the exudate, and thus tends ultimately to atrophy of the muscular la}'ers involved in it. 4. SuflRciently prolonged convalescence.—Few things tend so greatly to vitiate the result of hernial operations as an undue cur- tailment of convalescence. Young cicatrices are easily stretched long after the occurrence of primary union. The present-day custom of discharging hospital patients at the end of fourteen to twenty-one days is a directly predisposing cause of recurrence. Operative Treatment of Inguinal Hernia The operation may be divided into two essential parts, viz. (a) the obliteration of the sac, and (b) the closure of the canal. In Bassini's operation, the one usually adopted, the sac is emptied and removed, the open neck being closed either by transfixion and ligature or, if wide, by suturing ; this method secures good results and is advised. Earlier recommended ligature and removal of the sac, the stump being afterwards carried upwards by the two ends of the ligature passed through the abdominal wall and tied together there. Macewen puck- ered up the sac like a Venetian blind by a purse-string suture from below upwards, and fixed it as a pad over the internal abdominal ring. In Kocher's first operation the fundus was passed through the muscles above the internal ring, from within outwards, the sac drawn after it and then turned downwards and fixed to the anterior surface of the external oblique aponeurosis. Later, Kocher invaginated the sac into the abdomen like an inverted glove-finger, and, bringing it out through peritoneum and muscles, fixed it as above. To close the inguinal canal, two methods may be mentioned— (1) Hcdsted's, in which the inguinal canal is obliterated by suturing all the layers of the abdominal wall behind the cord, which therefore is made to run subcutaneously to the scrotum ; (2) Bassini's, in which, after removal of the sac, the conjoint tendon is stitched to Poupart's ligament behind the cord, and the gap in the external oblique closed in front of it, so as to maintain the valvular action of the canal. Choice of anaesthetic.—The best results are obtained with spinal analgesia, which procures a maximum of muscular relaxation, avoids postoperative vomiting, and minimizes oozing and congestion. {Sec Vol. I., p. 688.) Bassini's operation (Fig. 4.58).—This operation may be divided into three stages—(1) isolation, ligature, and removal of the