DIAGNOSIS OF HERNIAL CONTENTS 585 accompanied by pyrexia and vomiting, but in the absence of definite signs of strangulation, should suggest the presence of an inflamed appendix. Its presence may at times be diagnosed by palpation, from the peculiar shape of the organ, and from the tenderness on pressure being referred to McBurney's point, or to the umbilicus. Omentum in the sac gives rise to a spongy, lobulated mass of ill- defined outline, usually irreducible, dull to percussion throughout the length of the inguinal canal, although in the scrotum there may be areas of resonance which are due to bowel. It lacks the tenseness and rounded character of hydrocele, and the plastic character of fa?ces. The presence of an ovary is generally indicated by tenderness and enlargement of the hernia coincident with each menstrual period, irregularity of these periods, some displacement of the uterus to the side of the hernia, and absence of the ovary of that side when a bimanual examination is made. In either femoral or inguinal hernia its characteristic shape and sensation on pressure may be elicited in the quiescent period. Hernias which contain c;ecum, colon, or sigmoid are usually very large with wide necks, contain fteces from time to time, and are often associated with constipation and incarceration. It is not always possible to be certain of the presence of the bladder in the sac of a hernia, since only a small part of its wall may be involved, but it should be suspected in all cases of direct inguinal and in femoral hernia accompanied by urinary symptoms, whether in the way of frequency, pain, strangury, or unexplained cystitis ; and in cases where an overfull bladder is associated repeatedly with an increase, and micturition with a decrease, in the size of the hernia. In femoral hernia the bladder should never be forgotten, whether symptoms are present or not, since it is frequently found at operation without any external evidence. Where doubt exists, it may be cleared up by the passage of a sound per urethram, after the bladder has been emptied ; it may thus be possible, especially in the female, to direct the beak of the sound into the diverticulum in the sac, and so avoid an accident during operation. Coverings of the sac—These naturally depend on the variety of hernia in question, and will be discussed as each variety is considered. Secondary changes in the sac—Although at first a simple protrusion of almost unaltered peritoneum, the sac does not long remain in this condition ; it is influenced especially by pressure and irritation from without, and by the character and weight of its contents. At first it is thin, avascular, usually unilocular, and easily reducible into the abdomen; but with the constantly increasing