CESOPHAGEAL CARCINOMA: TREATMENT 289 The presence of the stricture can be shown by the stoppage of the bismuth, given either as a suppository or as an emulsion. If in the latter form, it will be seen to collect and form an oblong opaque shadow, somewhat cone-shaped, with the base uppermost. The apex of the cone points into the mouth of the stricture, through which tlie solution may be seen to drop down slowly into the stomach. In early growths, when slight stenosis exists, the method is of little value. I have observed a case in which bismuth solution passed into the stomach, but sounds could not be made to pass the site of the growth. In doubtful cases of aneurysm the method is of great value, as the use of sounds is contra-indicated. The presence of the aneurysm may be demonstrated by a pulsating shadow, and a stricture by the dense ojjacity produced by the retained bismuth. 3. Direct inspection with the oesophagoscope.—This method gives the most exact information as to the character and extent of an oesophageal growth. By its means portions of the tumour can be removed for microscopical examination, and local applications can be made or radium applied. The employment of this instrument, however, is not to be advised as a routine method of examination in general practice. The introduction of an oesophagoscope, even under anaesthesia, is a proceeding which entails certain risks and requires technical experience. The diagnosis of an oesophageal carcinoma can generally be confidently made without its use. It is invaluable in cases in which the diagnosis of a malignant growth is doubtful, or in which treatment by radium, or some other local application, is thought advisable. As seen through the oesophagoscope, a carcinoma of the mucous membrane of the wall can be easily recognized. In the very early stages only a slight swelling may be seen, but in the average case the raised ragged edge of the growth and the ulcerating surface are quite distinctive. The fixation of the oesophageal wall at the site of the growth is a noticeable feature, and the natural rhythmic respiratory movements, which are always present in the healthy oesophagus, are absent. Examination with the laryngoscope will only reveal a growth situated at the commencement of the oesophagus. This instrument, however, should be employed in every case in order to investigate the condition of the vocal cords. Treatment.—Operations for the removal of carcinoma of the oesophagus have up to the present time met with but little success. Excision of growths in the cervical portion have only been tem- porarily successful. Records of 15 cases treated by cervical oesophagectomy have been collected byQuervain, and these include the well-known cases operated on by Czerny, Mikulicz, and Garre.