344 THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM more tlian one ulcer is present in 21 per cent, of the cases), but chronic gastric and duodenal ulcers are usually single. Site—Ulcers of the stomach are usually situated on the lesser curvature towards the pylorus, and involve more often the poste- rior than the anterior, wall. Those which are situated on the lesser curvature not infrequently involve both walls and constitute the so- called " saddle " ulcers (Fig. 373). The acute ulcers which perforate are most often situated on the anterior wall (Fig. 375). Morbid anatomy The acute ulcer sometimes called " round" is well de- fined and has a punched-out appearance. In shape it is conical, the deeper layers being affected to a less extent than the mucous membrane. The floor, usually formed of the muscular coat, is not covered with granulations, and post mortem no peritoneal afEec- tion is found. Microscopical examination reveals necrosis Fig. 374.—Diagram showing the situa- without any special infiltration lion of the ulcer in Fig. 373. ..^j^h small lymphocyte - like cells or granulation tissue cells, and the mucous membrane is usually healthy right up to the margin of the ulcer. In cases of acute ulcer leading to perforation, as seen at operation, the surrounding stomach wall may be cedematous, but this condition is absent post mortem, and is not marked if operation is performed within a short time after the perforation. 1 The edge of a chronic ulcer is often irregular, indurated and smooth, and the floor covered with scattered granulations.- Satellite acute ulcers are sometimes present. The peritoneum covering it is thickened, and adhesions are often met with. When seen during life the peritoneum is rough and often red-speckled, and there is frequently a " sentinel" enlarged lymphatic gland between the layers of the neighbouring omentum. Adhesions to surrounding organs may take place, and in this way, with a continuance of the ulcerative pro- cess producing destruction of the stomach wall, the floor of the ulcer may be formed of pancreas or of liver. Blood-vessels may be laid bare, and the consequent weakening of their coats may lead to the formation of an aneurysm and to fatal hsematemesis (Fig. 376). Symptoms.—The most striking feature in connexion with the