RECTUM AND ANAL CANAL 714 examination is essential, and if malignant transformation has taken place the case must be treated accordingly. Papilloma of the Anus Papillomatous masses occasionally arise in the anal canal, or in the skin immediately surrounding the anus. They are typical papil- lomas, covered with squamous epithelium. They resemble the venereal warts of the genitals, and are probably always caused by the irritation of discharges, either from the genitals or from the rectum. These warts must be treated by attention to their causes, strict cleanliness and the application of a dry powder. If no improvement follows, they may be removed by the Imife or by the application of carbonic dioxide snow. Fibroma Swellings consisting of fibrous tissue are frequently seen in the rectum and anal canal, but the majority of these are not tumours in the true sense of the word ; they are inflammatory in origin. Occasionally a true fibroma occurs ; it may be single or multiple, sessile or pedunculated, and is usually of small size, although a few instances are recorded in which the tumour reached large proportions. Mixed fibromas, such as fibro-myoma and fibro-myxoma, have been recorded but are very rare. The symptoms are similar to those of adenoma. Lipoma of the Rectum Rectal lipoma is rare ; in many of the cases recorded as such the tumours really originated in the pelvic colon either as submucous or subserous growths ; when the latter, the pedicle has contained a pro- trusion of peritoneum—a point to bear in mind when operating upon these tumours through the rectum. The symptoms are very indefinite. If large, lipomas may cause obstruction ; they have been known to become extruded and cast off. Vascular ticevi, lymphomas, and tumours consisting in part of bone and cartilage have been described as occurring in the rectum, but they are all exceedingly rare. MALIGNANT TUMOURS Sarcoma of the Rectum Rare anywhere in the intestinal tract, sarcoma attacks the rectum slightly more frequently than the bowel above. It afEects the two sexes equally ; it has usually been recorded in middle-aged or elderly subjects. All types of sarcoma have been recorded—round-celled, spindle- celled, alveolar, lympho-, and melanotic. The spindle-celled is the