MOVABLE KIDNEY: SYMPTOMS 793 the kidney descends below the costal margin, at first vertically, and then the lower pole swings towards the vertebral column so that the hilum faces upwards. Exceptionally, the pedicle is so long that the kidney may be found in almost any part of the abdomen, and may descend into the true pelvis. The movable ■ kidney is uninfluenced by respiratory movements, and escapes from the grasp with a sudden slip that is characteristic, the patient experiencing a sickening sensation. The tumour can be reduced into the loin, and is then no longer palpable. (c) Some lack of resistance is detected in the loin of the affected side when the patient is examined on her hands and knees. (d) Enlargement of the kidney.—Intermittent hydronephrosis not infrequently results from abnormal mobility. (e) Changes in the urine.—Hfematuria is rare, but it may follow muscular exertion. Albuminuria is frequently observed, and dis- appears on resting. Tube casts due to venous congestion are present in the urine in 8 out of 180 cases (Newman). Transient polyuria co- incides with the relief of an attack of hj-dronephrosis. Anuria may result from torsion of the renal pedicle, and has been known to last for nine days without ill after-effects. Frequent micturition may be reflex during an attack of pain, or the result of polyuria after an attack of hydronephrosis. 2. Symptoms referred to other organs, (a) Gastro-intestinal symptoms.—There may be epigastric pain and burning unconnected with the taking of food. The patient complains of a sinking sensation, loss of appetite, nausea, eructations, a feeling of distension, and vomit- ing, and becomes thin and ansemic. In such cases the stomach is usually distended, and may be displaced ; the right kidney is movable and the condition is due to the drag of adhesions on the second part of the duodenum or of a thickened band of peritoneum on the pylorus. Recurrent attacks of flatulent distension of the colon and constipation, perhaps resembling intestinal obstruction, may be caused by adhesions between the kidney and large intestine. Jaundice, epigastric pain, and distension of the gall-bladder may repeatedly occur ; they have been ascribed to pressure of the kidney on the common bile-duct, or to dragging of the kidney upon the second part of the duodenum. (b) Nervous symptoms.—Mobility of the kidney is often accom- panied by neurasthenia of various degrees, and is considered by Suckling to be a cause of some forms of insanity. Dietl's crises.—The patient is liable to crises which may be due to dragging on adhesions connected with the pylorus or bowel or to torsion of the vascular pedicle or kinking of the ureter. The attack may follow a muscular effort, [a) When the stomach or bowel is affected there is severe epigastric or general abdominal pain. Vomiting and