THE TONGUE 222 and can then be secured with forceps or, better, ligatured by means of an aneurysm-needle, before the final severance of the affected portion. It is well worth while to spend a little time securing the vessel, for the lingual tissue is extremely friable, and as the tongue is brought forward under tension the forceps may be dragged ofE and troublesome bleeding may ensue ; if tliis does occur, the fingers should be passed back beyond the epiglottis and the base of the tongue should be hooked forward, after the method recommended by Heath—a step which, while it checks the bleeding, temporarily enables the stump to be brought well into view. Cathcart (quoted by Jacobson) secures the artery in the following way : After the ordinary steps have been taken and the tongue, well freed, has been dragged out of the mouth, " the anterior border of the hyo-glossus is defined by a few vertical strokes of the director; this instrument is next insinuated beneath the muscle, the tissues being separated with the point before it is pushed in. The muscle is next carefully cut through on the director for about two-thirds of its extent (this incision should be close to the hyoid), and the fibres retracting leave the artery exposed at the bottom of the wound, covered only with a little connective tissue ; it can be under-run with a ligature carried by an aneurysm-needle and leisurely tied." Whitehead relied mainly on twisting the artery, but it is wiser to ligature it with silk or chromicized catgut. If the whole tongue is to be removed, it may be split, provided that the split does not pass through diseased tissue, and each half may be dealt with as recommended above; or each side may be freed without the median incision, and the arteries secured by the methods previously recommended. In any case when the whole organ is ex- cised a stout ligature should be left through the stump close to the epiglottis to enable the surgeon to pull it forward in case of haemorrhage, and also to prevent the falling back of the stump and consequent obstruction to respiration. After the diseased tissues have been freely removed, any vessels which still bleed should be clamped, and tied if possible, but the friable tissue and the depth of the wound may make tliis procedure difiicult. Any mucous membrane that is left should be used to cover over the raw surface, being fixed in position by catgut sutures ; if only half the tongue has been excised, the anterior part may be folded back and used to cover the raw surface near the median line. Such a step checks the oozing and accelerates the healing of the wound. If, in spite of the above precautions, bleeding still continues, gauze strips should be packed on to the raw surface. Whitehead swabs the wound over with a special varnish, made by substituting for the spirit used in Friar's balsam a saturated solution