CYSTOSCOPY 847 For sounding the bladder the organ should contain 6-8 oz. of fluid. The stone sound is introduced in the same way as a metal catheter, and when the beak engages in the prostatic urethra the handle is fully depressed between the thighs and then pushed onwards so that the beak rides over the j)osterior lip of the internal meatus. The bladder sliould be systematically searched by turning the handle from side to side while slowly withdrawing. Exploration by operation.—When necessary the bladder may be opened suprapubically and the patient placed in the Trendelenburg posi- tion. With bladder retractors and the help of a head-lamp the interior of the bladder can be thoroughly searched. The perineal route in the male and the uretliral and vaginal routes in the female are vnisatisfactory and inadequate methods of exploration. Radiography is discussed elsewhere (Vol. I., p. 029). Cystoscopy.—There are two methods of cystoscopy—(1) indirect, (2) direct. 1. Indirect cystoscopy.—This is carried out by means of a cystoscope after distension of the bladder with fluid. The various forms of cystoscope are described in special works on the subject. For routine use an "irrigation'" cystoscope is most useful. This consists of a hollow tube with an angled beak which carries a small electric lamp. At the proximal end of the tube there is a valve which prevents the escape of the fluid until required. A tele- scope with a prism and lenses fits the interior of the tube and is slipped in after the bladder is washed and distended. The patient lies on a couch with a sand-pillow beneath the pelvis, or sits in a special chau-with the knees and hijjs flexed and the thighs widely apart. The urethra is ana'sthetized by instilling 15 minims of a 2 per cent, solution of cocaine into the prostatic urethra by means of a Guyon's syringe. The catheter portion of the cystoscope is lubricated with glycerine and introduced, and the bladder filled with warm boric solution. The telescope is now introduced, the light switched on, and the window turned to the base of the bladder. Careful and prolonged washing may be necessary to obtain a clear medium when ha?maturia or pyuria is present, and a weak solution of silver nitrate (1 in 10,000) or a small quantity of adrenalin may be used in order to stoii oozing. 2. Direct cystoscopy.—This method was perfected by Kelly, and has been modified by Luys and others. Kelly's specula are used for women only, and are plated metal cylinders in. long with a funnel-shaped expansion and a handle at the outer end. The instrument is introduced with an obturator after dilatation of the urethra. General ana?sthesia may be necessary. The patient is placed in the knee-chest position, the speculum is introduced and the obturator withdrawn. Air rushes in and distends the bladder, and light is projected through the tube from a head-lamp. Luys has modified this method, and uses it in the male also. His instrument con- sists of a metal tube 10 cm. long for female, and 18 cm, for male subjects. The patient is placed in the Trendelenburg position with local or general an;esthesia. The direct methods are inferior to the indirect where examination only is desired. There is frequently difficulty in obtaining the proper distension of the bladder with the atmospheric pressure, and the position of the patient is irksome and embarrassing. Urine tends to collect in the bladder during the examination, and must be removed with a suction apparatus. Where applications to the interior of the bladder are necessary, or foreign bodies have to be removed, the direct methods are invaluable. Tiie methods of collecting urine from each kidney have already been