1015 CHRONIC ENDOMETRITIS uterine dilators up to No. 12 are now passed, the cavity is again sounded, in case the wall has been perforated, the curette inserted, and the mucous membrane erased in strips from above downwards. The cervical canal is then scraped with a sharp spoon and the erosion suitably treated {see under Endocervicitis, p. 1011). Where very marked evidence of infection is present, especially if gonorrhoeal, the operation may be concluded by swabbing out the uterus with iodine or iodized phenol. The dangers of curettage are perforation of the uterus either by a dilator or by the curette, and postoperative sepsis. Other methods of treatment—Curettage may fail, or only succeed temporarily. In fibrotic endometritis, and still more in diffuse fibrotic metritis (p. 1016), the curette removes nothing, and does little good. In gonorrliceal cases the infection may be very persistent. In such circumstances, the operation may be repeated, and the uterus swabbed out with chloride of zinc (30 gr. to an ounce), or with pure nitric acid applied through a glass tube, but these measures are not without risk. To the same end superheated steam has been applied with a special apparatus (atmocausis). When severe menorrhagia persists in spite of a thorough trial of styptic drugs and properly performed curettage, and particularly when the curette scrapes hard and rough without removing any appreciable amount of tissue, diffuse fibrotic metritis is probably present. In such cases the best treatment is hysterectomy (p. 1022). PYOMETRA Distension of the uterus with pus occurs sometimes in senile endo- metritis, the cervix being stenosed by atrophy. It is also seen in the later stages of cervical carcinoma. The uterus is soft and enlarged, and viewed from the abdominal aspect presents a number of dilated capillaries on its surface. Fever and pain may be present, but some cases show very few symptoms. The condition is only discovered on the escape of thick greenish pus when the sound is passed. Treatment.—Carcinoma, if present, must be eradicated, if possible. In senile endometritis vaginal hysterectomy is the best pro- ceeding, but curettage and strong iodine solution may first be tried. TUBERCULOUS ENDOMETRITIS In this rare affection the mucosa is greatly thickened by diffuse cell proliferation, amidst which giant cells are found. The condition is sometimes found post mortem in persons dead of tubercle elsewhere. Often there have been no symptoms. In other cases, irregular bleeding and offensive discharge have led to a diagnosis of carcinoma. Treat- ment consists in removal of the uterus.