OPERATION FOR GALL-STONES 755 Operative treatment. The time to operate.—An inter- val between attacks should be chosen, imless sj^reading inflammation, acute pancreatitis, or sudden perforation and acute peritonitis demands immediate operation. Even in the presence of localized suppuration some preparation is usually advisable, and long-continued jaundice requires a period of probation owing to the danger of h;emorrhage and of toxsemia. Preliminary treatment.—Obesity should be reduced by the prohibition of starches, sugars, and fats, combined with free purga- tion and abdominal massage. In the presence of jaundice or symptoms of cholangitis, thorough clearance of the alimentary canal and the liberal use of saline solution with small doses of uro- tropin are the most valuable preparatory measures. To obviate the ha3morrhagic tendency, calcium chloride has been much vaunted, but its value is doubtful ; a far better method is the free flushing of the system with normal saline. Bleeding has also been prevented and checked by alien serums ; fresh horse or rabbit serum is best, ox serum being unsuit- able. Antidiphtheritic scrum ^-^ 530.-Incisions used in gall-bladder IS often the readiest to hand, surgery. The vertical incision is that and may be given subcuta- usually employed. The transverse is neously or intravenously in recommended by Rutherford Morison. doses of 10 to 30 c.c. The operation In acute gall-stone conditions, ether by the open method afEords the safer aneesthesia owing to the risk of aceton- uria after chloroform. A convenient incision is a vertical one extending 4 in. downwards from the costal margin, through the outer half of the right rectus muscle. Freer access may be gained by carrying the cut upwards and inwards to the costo-xiphisternal notch (Robson) ; and still further room can be obtained by adding a similar extension obhquely outwards below (Bevan) (see Fig. 530). The deeper ducts can be brought nearer the surface by placing a long, narrow sand-bag transversely beneath