787 HyEMATURIA—PYURIA case of severe renal haimaturia which preceded other symptoms of tuberculous disease by two years. Symptomless hfematuria may occur in some growths of the kidney at a very early stage of their developmnet. Treatment of haematuria.—Only exceptionally is treatment for hsematuria, apart from operative measures, required. Morphia, ergot, ergotine, tincture of hamamelis, and calcium chloride or lactate may be used. Local treatment.—In renal luematuria dry cupping and ice-bags may be applied over the kidney. Adrenalin has been injected into the renal pelvis through a ureteric catheter, 1 drachm of l-in-5,000 solution being used. In vesical hcematuria a catheter should be passed and the bladder washed out with large cpiantities of hot boric solution or of a hot, very weak solution (1 in 15,000) of silver nitrate. Afterwards 10 or 12 oz. of a solution of anti- pyrin (10 per cent.), or 1 or 2 drachms of adrenalin solution (1 in 2,000), are injected into the bladder, left for a few minutes, and then run out. Any clots in the bladder may be washed out through a large catheter, or, better, tlirough a large evacuating catheter such as is used in lithotrity. The rubber lithotrity bulb may be attached and the clots sucked out. These methods should not be persisted in for long; if the clots are large, and distending the bladder, suprapubic cystotomy should be performed, the clots cleared out, and a stream of hot boric solution (1L5° to 120° F.) passed through a catheter in the uretlu'a, and allowed to well out of the suprapubic opening. In a case of unilateral renal hmmaturia nephrotomy is necessary, and if a j^apilla of the kidney shows congestion it may be cut away with a sharj) spoon. Where nephrotomy fails to discover any lesion in the renal substance the wounds in the kidney and renal pelvis should be closed with catgut sutures. The hajmatiu-ia in the majority of cases ceases after the exploration, apparently as a result of pressure upon the bleeding vessel by the sutures. Nephrectomy should not be performed for this reason, and also because bilateral nephritis may give rise to unilateral hematuria. Very rarely recur- rence of ha?morrhage necessitates a second operation. Decapsulation may be combined with nephrotomy, but the results are similar to those of nephrotomy alone, the haematuria recurring in rare cases. PYURIA Pyuria indicates inflammation in one or more parts of the urinary tract. Bacterial infection may occur in an otherwise healthy urinary tract, or may be superadded to stone, stricture, growth, or other gross lesions. Further, one bacterial inflammation may be superimposed upon another of a different character. Apart from acute inflammation of the urethra, the position of which will be evident from the discharge of pus at the meatus, the largest quantities of pus are derived from purulent collections in the kidney. In cases of long- standing bladder inflammation the total quantity of deposit may be large, but the proportion of pus is not so great. The fluffy muco-purulent deposit of urethritis settles quickly to the bottom of the glass, while that of cystitis forms billows in the urine, which is usually highly coloured and concentrated. In severe old-standing cystitis the urine may be like coffee with milk. The sediment, after standing for an hour or two, is viscous and clings like slmie to the bottom of the vessel. Pus from the renal pelvis, or from a dilated kidney, produces a milky urine when passed, but later lies at the bottom as a heavy, fiat, yellowish layer, which rolls lieavily to the lowest part when the vessel is canted. The supernatant fluid is cloudy with sus- pended pus or bacteria.