8l2 THE KIDNEY RENAL AND PERIRENAL FISTUL/E Of these fistulse the great majority follow an operation ; a few appear spontaneously or result from injury. 1. Perirenal fistulas unconnected with the urinary organs. —Perirenal fistulte unconnected with the urinary organs may take origin in an empyema, appendicitis, or other purulent collec- tion. The original seat of the suppuration is shown by the history of the case or the presence of scars. Much information can be obtained by radiography after injection of a bismuth emulsion. Examination of the urine, cystoscopy, and catheterization of the ureter on the fistulous side demonstrate that there is no urinary in- fection, and that the ureter on this side is patent and the kidney active. 2. Spontaneous renal fistulas.—These are rare. A fistula may follow wounds of the kidney, but is rarely permanent. Pyo- nephrosis may rupture into the perinephric tissue and burrow to the surface of the body or open into the pleural cavity, a bronchus, the stomach, duodenum, or elsewhere. Calculi may be discharged on the surface from a spontaneous fistula. The discharge is purulent or uropurulent. Diagnosis is usually difficult. To symptoms of pyonephrosis there are superadded those of rupture of a large abscess into a bronchus or elsewhere. The escape of pus is usually intermittent. 3. Postoperative renal fistulas.—There is usually a single fistula opening at the posterior part of the operation scar, but in tuberculous disease several intercommunicating fistulse may be present. The discharge may be pus, pus and urine, or pure urine. The fistulous track is narrow and usually straight. The walls are thick, fibrous, and rigid. The factors which cause a permanent fistula may be obstruction of the ureter or pelvis, tuberculous infection of the track, a thick, hard, unyielding track wall or Iddney, or calculi or concretions in the lumen of the fistula. A fistula after nephrectomy may be due to necrotic portions of the kidney being left in the pedicle, to an infected pedicle ligature, or to septic or tuberculous infection of the wound. Diagnosis.—Usually the cause of the fistula and the condition of the kidney are well known, but it may be uncertain if the fistula is urinary or not. The discharge should be examined for urea. After an intramuscular injection of methylene blue a urinary discharge will be tinged with blue. The presence of stricture of the ureter and the quantity of urine that escapes down the ureter are ascertained by ureteral catheterization, Treatment.—In some cases nephrostomy has been performed with the view of producing a permanent fistula. A modification of Hamilton Irving's suprapubic drainage apparatus should be fitted to