8ii PYONEPHROSIS and a purulent collection communicating with the ureter. The cystoscope will distinguish a diverticulum of the bladder, and pyo- nephrosis has a characteristic tumour. In pyelonephritis without retention there is a small quantity of pus in the urine, and catheterization of the ureter reveals no obstruction. In tuberculous pyonephrosis there are tubercle bacilli in the urine and often tuberculous lesions elsewhere ; the tuberculous ureter is thick and hard, and the general tests for tuberculosis are positive. Treatment.—1. Continuous drainage by ureteral catheters of in- creasing calibre and daily lavage of the pelvis are seldom practicable. 2. Plastic operations are referred to under Hydronephrosis (p. 818), but they are usually rendered worthless by the extensive functional destruction of the kidney. 3. Nephrotomy may be confined to incision and drainage of the kidney, or an attempt may be made to re-establish the lumen of the ureter. The pyonephrotic sac is opened through an oblique lumbar incision, the contents evacuated, septa broken down, search made for interstitial abscesses and for stone, and a large tube placed in the nephrotomy wound and another outside the kidney. This operation is rapid and devoid of shock, and is suitable for the worst cases. The mortality is 17-23 per cent. After the operation the general health and the function of the second kidney show great improvement. In 27 per cent, of cases (Kiister) the wound closes, the sac shrinks, and the patient is cured. A fistula remains in from 45-6 to 56 per cent, of the cases (Kiister). Attempts to obviate it have been made by passing sounds from above downwards (Bazy) or from the bladder upwards (Albarran), and by tying a catheter in the ureter. A fistula may be cured by removal of its fibrous wall, the opening up of the sac, removal of calculi, and free drainage. Should these fail, a urine-collecting apparatus may be fitted, or nephrectomy may be performed. 4. Secondary nephrectomy is indicated where septicaemia persists or exhaustion is following the prolonged suppuration. The mortality is 5-9 per cent., but to this must be added the mortality of nephi'otomy (23-3 per cent.), making the total mortality 29-2 per cent. Primary nephrectomy may be partial in rare cases. Total nephrec- tomy is performed by the lumbar route, and the best method is subcapsular nephrectomy, the mortality of which is 17 per cent. (Kiister). The chief danger is the inadequacy of the second kidney from disease—in 40 per cent, of cases (Legueu). Nephrectomy should not be performed until the condition of the second kidney has been thoroughly investigated.