GASTRIC CARCINOMA: SYMPTOMS 385 In some cases, as first pointed out by Wickliam Legg in 1880, metastases are seen at the umbilicus. Anaemia, loss of weight, and change in gastric secretion are other symptoms to be found in all late cases. Anaemia is present in all advanced cases ; in a few the resemblance of the symptoms to those of pernicious anaemia has led to error of diagnosis and treatment, but examination of the blood will prevent this mistake. The blood-changes in carcinoma of the stomach are those of a secondary anaemia. The red corpuscles are rarely reduced lower than 3,000,000, the average of 59 cases recorded by Osier and McCrae being 3,712,186. There is a slight leucocytosis in most cases It has been stated by Miiller that digestive leucocytosis is absent in carcinoma of the stomach. Very little reliance can be placed on this test, for it is present in nearly half the cases examined (Osier and McCrae, Fenwick). Progressive loss of weight may very rarely be the first sign of disease. Thus, in one patient under my care, a man of 57, progressive loss of weight, from 16 st. 3 lb. to 12 st. 6 lb., was noticed for twelve months before the onset of any gastric symptom. Changes in gastric secretion are present in the late stages of the disease. Golding Bird, in 1843, pointed out that free HCl was absent in cases of cancer of the stomach. Among 495 cases published by various authors, free HCl was absent in 89 per cent. (Fenwick). It has been stated that free HCl is only present in those cases which originate from ulcer ; it is certainly usually present in patients with a previous history of long-standing gastric trouble, and absent in those in whom the carcinoma develops without previous history of gastric disease. It is a test on which too much stress should not be laid, for it is a late sign and due to concomitant chronic gastritis. Hammerschlag, from the examination of mucosa removed from the stomach in cases of gastro-jejunostomy, found that when free HCl was absent the specific glandular elements had disappeared and been replaced by cylindrical epithelium. Free HCl may be present throughout the whole course of the disease, and it may be absent from the gastric juice in patients witli carcinoma of other organs (Mansell-Moullin, ]\Ioore, Palmer). This statement is disputed by Willcox, who has found free HCl present in the gastric contents of patients with carcinoma of organs even contiguous to the stomach. This is in agreement with my own experience. It has been stated (Seidelin) that free HCl is absent in 40 per cent, of people over the age of 50. Fragments of growth, blood, sarcinae, and the Oppler-Boas bacil- lus may be found on microscopical examination of the vomit (p. 311). Salomon has stated that the presence of nucleo-albumin and mucin.