THE BREAST 90 this precaution is likely to be followed by ulceration of the edges of the flaps. At this period of the operation no attempt should be made to apply artery forceps to every small bleeding-point. Sj^outing vessels in the deep surface of the skin flap should be clamped, but bleeding from the exposed surface of subcutaneous fat is sufficiently checked by the pressure of large flat swabs, for nearly all the exposed vessels will again be divided at a deeper level. Delimitation of the area of deep fascia to be removed. —An annular incision, marking out the 10-in. circle of deep fascia to be removed, is now carried down to the muscles through the deeper subcutaneous fat close to the base of the skin flaps, wliich are mean- while strongly retracted by the assistant. Elevation of deep fascia from the underlying muscles. —The circular area of deeper subcutaneous fat and deep fascia, in which lies embedded the presumably permeated area of the fascial lymphatic plexus, is now dissected from the subjacent muscles for some distance from its circumference towards its centre, so as to form a wide marginal fringe of the main mass, consisting of breast, pectoral muscles, and axillary contents, which is to be subsequently removed. The fringe of deep fascia is to be raised up all round the field of operation until the knife reaches either the margin of the great pectoral muscle, the margin of the axillary outlet, or the edge of the breast, as the case m&j be. The amount of dissection required varies in difierent parts of the field of operation. At the upper limit of the field of operation hardly any freeing of the fascia will be required, since in this region it will come away with the great pectoral when that muscle is divided below its clavicular origin. Towards the middle line the fascia will usually require dissecting up from the inner margin of the opposite great pectoral and from the sternum. In doing this the perforating branches of the internal mammary artery on the side opfosite to the growth are often divided, and must be secured. The division of these branches necessarily implies also division of the lymphatics which run with them from the pectoral lymphatic plexus to the anterior mediastinal glands, and thus additional security against thoracic invasion is obtained. (The corresponding perforating branches on the same side as the growth are divided later during the detachment of the great pectoral.) As regards the lower limit of the field of operation, it will be found that a 10-in. circle of deep fascia with the growth at its centre will usually extend well down over the epigastric region of the abdomen. In this part of the field of operation the anterior layer of the rectus sheath on both sides of the middle line should be raised up, and