630 HERNIA (Fig. 452). The rectus slieath must be very freely opened on either side, and a complete separation of both muscles effected from both anterior and posterior layers. As soon as the edges of the peri- toneum, together with those of the posterior layers,^ are united, all oozing is arrested, and the edges of the recti muscles being widely retracted, the filigree is lifted straight from the sterilizer and at once introduced into the wound, being laid upon the posterior layer of the sheath of the muscle. There is no need to suture it in place, since, being of the exact width of the sheath, it camiot get out of place. The recti muscles are now approximated as far as possible over it, and the anterior layer of the sheath is also closed by a continuous suture. No drainage is used, and the wound is closed by the clips from end to end. Before operation is undertaken, the size of the filigree to be used must be determined. The vertical length of the hernial gap should be measured, and the filigree made at least one-third longer than this measurement; the width remains constant—4J to 5 in. When successfully implanted, these filigrees do away entirely with the neces- sity for any kind of belt or truss after convalescence. The patient may wear an _. A , ,■ abdominal binder for a month from the Fig. 463.—Author's modi- , ^ , ,- , ,. fication of Bartlett's ab- operation, when consolidation dominal filigree, will be complete. No inconvenience or discomfort is felt subsequently, nor does the method interfere with pregnancy. Operative Treatment of Ventral Hernia What has been said of umbiUcal applies equally well to ventral hernia. These gaps are from the first so large as to preclude any operation by the superimposition of flaps, and the tendency to recur- rence is so great that only a few are cured by direct approximation of the abdominal wall in tiers. It is, therefore, best to treat them by filigTee implantation from the first. Since they are commonly the result of trauma or of operative interference, they present greater difficulties than simple umbilical 1 Unless these are taken together the peritoneum will be much torn by the sutures.