THE BLADDER 864 women. It is doubtful whether primary tuberculous cystitis ever exists. It was held that when the bladder and Iddney were affected the infection was primary in the bladder and secondary in the Iddney (ascending) ; but it is now recognized that the early symptoms of cystitis are usually reflex, the bladder being non-tuberculous. In cystitis secondary to tuberculosis of the kidney there is either direct spread by continuity along the ureter or deposit of bacilli from the urine. In cystitis secondary to genital tuberculosis in the male the tuberculous process either passes directly through the bladder wall from the seminal vesicles or prostate, or spreads from a tuberculous 23rostatic urethra into the bladder. Pathology.—Greyish tubercles form in the mucosa, caseate, and break down into a tiny superficial ulcer with sharply cut edges. Several of these ulcers may run together, and a large area of bladder wall may thus be ulcerated. Deep ulcers may also form. They are round, oval, or serpiginous, with a greyish-red granular base and a deeply undermined edge. Irregular masses of granulation tissue are occasionally seen. In old-standing tuberculosis the bladder is contracted and adherent to the rectum and female genital organs, and there is tuberculous deposit in the pelvic lymph-glands. Tuber- culous lesions of the kidney on one or both sides, or of the seminal vesicles or prostate, are also present. Tuberculosis of the female genital organs is rare. Symptoms.—Cystitis arises spontaneously and insidiously in a young patient, and progresses gradually but persistently. Frequent micturition is the earliest symptom ; at first diurnal and moderate, later it becomes nocturnal also and the intervals much less. Micturition becomes urgent, and urine is passed every quarter- or half-hour, day and night, sometimes involuntarily during heavy sleep. There are vesical pain, urethral scalding, and cramp-like pain at the end of the penis. A little bright blood often appears at the end of micturi- tion. Severe attacks of hsematuria may occur at intervals. Polyuria is present and is due to tuberculous changes in the kid- neys. The urine is pale and opalescent, faintly acid, of low specific gravity, and contains a small quantity of pus well mixed. The symp- toms are unaffected by movement, but are influenced by dietetic indiscretion and cold damp weather. Course and prognosis.—If septic complications are avoided the disease is slowly progressive, and death takes place after some years from renal failure due to bilateral renal tuberculosis. Fre- quently, however, septic complications arise, almost invariably as the result of catheterization, and occasionally secondary stone forma- tion follows. Subacute or chronic septic pyelonephritis eventually supervenes.