CYSTITIS 86i together, and may be surromided by a halo of inflammation. Extensive phosphatic deposit may take place. Necrosis of the superficial layers of mucous membrane mixed with fibrin forms a membrane which is cast off in the condition known as croupous or diphtheritic cystitis. The infection in these cases is usually streptococcal. In very virulent infections exfoliation of the mucous membrane may take place and the necrosed membrane come away as a cast of the bladder. Ulceration is usually confined to the superficial layers, especially along the summits of ridges and folds. Less frequently there is a circumscribed deep round or oval ulcer with a heaped-up, sharply cut edge. A spreading ring-like ulcer is rarely observed. Leucoplakia is found in chronic cystitis. In chronic cystitis the sub- mucosa and muscular layers are infiltrated and sclerosed, and the perivesicular fat becomes fibrous, adherent, and greatly increased. The bladder contracts and the cavity is permanently diminished. Calculi frequently form in the bladder in chronic cystitis, especially where there are sacculi or residual urine. Symptoms.^—The symptoms are frequent micturition, pain, and changes in the urine. In slight cases the urine is passed every two hours and there is some urgency. In severe cases a few drops of urine are passed every few minutes, active incontinence may be present, and the frequency is as great during the night as during the day. Polyuria is often present. There is pain on attempting to hold water, and scalding pain in the urethra during micturition ; in severe cases, cramping pain may radiate from the neck of the bladder down the thighs at the end of micturition. Pyuria is always present. The pus is mixed with mucus and forms a slimy, tenacious deposit which clings to the bottom of the receptacle. Blood is present in severe cases and appears at the end of micturition. Complications.—Retention of urine may occur, especially where obstruction (stricture, enlarged prostate) is already present. Ascending infection of the kidneys is a serious and fatal complication. Abscess of the walls of the bladder or in the perivesical tissue may complicate chronic cystitis. Diagnosis.—1. Vesical symptoms may be caused by extra-urinary conditions such as tabes, hsemorrlioids and anal fissure, pregnancy, ovarian or uterine tumours, and prolapse of the uterus. Pyuria is absent in these cases. 2. Urinary conditions other than cystitis may cause frequent micturition, such as the passage of large quantities of urine in diabetes insipidus, diabetes mellitus, and hysterical polyuria. In highly acid urines, oxaluria, and phospliaturia, frequent and urgent micturition with pain is often present, but pyuria is absent. In enlarged prostate, stricture, and urethral polypi, frequency of micturition may be present