MALFORMATIONS OF RECTUM 667 developed from the proctodasum. which would, therefore, form the anal canal as far as the upper Umit of the columns of Morgagni. Wood-Jones, however, considers that the anal sinuses limit the perineal invagination. Whether the sphincter muscles are developed in the absence of the j^roctodaeum appears not to have been determined. In two cases where tlie rectum ended blindly at the base of the prostate and the jiroctodseal invagination was not developed, but the site of the anus merely marked by a little cutaneous eminence, I found a few muscle fibres in the position and having the course of the external sphincter. There was certainly no development of the internal sphincter. If the external sphincter were developed in such cases, operation might be undertaken with some prospect of success; but if it were not developed, however brilliant the first results of the operation might appear, there could be no possibility of control. Malformations are conveniently classified according to Wood- Jones's account of the development as follows :— 1. Persistence of the Original Communication with the Cloaca i. Males.—The common abnormality is the ending of the rectum in the urethra at the lower end of the verumontanum, immediatelv Fig. 483. Fig. 484. Fig. 483.—Rectum opening into the urethra immediately below the uterub masculinus, represented by a slight depression in the floor of the urethra. Fig. 484.—Rectum openiiig into the navicular fossa of the vulval cleft. beyond the openings of the uterus masculinus and the vasa deferentia (Fig. 483). The opening is too small to allow the passage of fjeces ; it seems to be provided with a sphincter. The opening has been seen in the trigone of the bladder (amphibian form), at the internal meatus, and at the apex of the prostate. Cases are also recorded in which the rectum opened into the frajnum of the prepuce, the under surface of the penis, the raphe of the scrotum or the perineum. According to Keith, " it occasionally happens that not only is the perineal orifice of the cloaca carried forwards on the outgrowing penis, but the rectal orifice is also transplanted with it."