THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM 414 may cause a kink at the anastomosis. In a few cases a kink may- obstruct the efferent opening, or adhesions obstruct the jejunum beyond. As has been pointed out by Paul, Stanmore Bishop, and my- self, regurgitant vomiting is liable to arise not only from faulty technique but also from operation upon unsuitable cases, particularly cases of atonic dyspepsia. The only two severe cases of regurgitant vomiting I have met with were in cases in which no lesion was demonstrated in the stomach ; both recovered. These are cases which would not now be treated by operation. Symptoms.—^Vomiting after gastro-jejunostomy is uncommon; in most cases no vomiting at all takes place. When, from the presence of adhesions or from trouble in administering the anaesthetic, operation proves to be difficult, copious bilious vomiting may occur, but passes off within forty-eight hours ; this I am in the habit of referring to as " paralytic." If it persists longer it is probably truly regurgitant. In the typical case vomiting does not develop for several days after operation. Bilious vomiting may first appear many weeks or months later, although it is unusual to see it after the third week. In severe cases, large quantities of bile-stained fluid are vomited once or twice a day. The vomit gushes up with very little effort, and as a rule contains no food. Emaciation is rapid, and death occurs unless relief is given. These cases are rare with modern methods of operating. In less severe cases, vomiting of a similar nature occurs at irre- gular intervals. In still slighter cases there is regurgitation of small quantities of bilious fluid. In the slight cases the patient may put on weight and obtain complete relief from the symptoms for which the operation was performed. Treatment.—Lavage should be employed once or twice a day, and continued until the passage of the stomach-tube reveals no excess of fluid in the stomach. In the severe cases coming on soon after opera- tion, if lavage does not speedily relieve, further operation must be undertaken. If a loop has been left, it is usually found distended. Entero-anastomosis between the afferent and efferent Umbs should be performed, or the afferent Umb divided and implanted into the efferent below the anastomosis (Eoux's operation). It may happen that neither is possible, there being no loop ; in these cases entero- enterostomy should be carried out by the method employed by Finney for gastro-duodenostomy (p. 418), or a commimication made with the second part of the duodenum. If the operation was performed for symptoms only, and no lesion of stomach found, the anastomosis should be excised and the con- tinuity of intestine re-established. 3. Peptic jejunal ulcer.—Ulceration of the jejunum after gastro-