MALFORMATIONS AND MISPLACEMENTS 311 Microscopical examination of tiie vomit may reveal, in addition to fragments of undigested food, various micro-organisms. Tlie most important are the Oppler-Boas bacillus, sarcinse, and yeast fimgi. These are usually found in cases of dilatation of the stomach. The Oppler-Boas bacillus is said to be constantly present in advanced cases of cancer of the stomach, and is a cause of lactic-acid fermentation ; it is usually absent in non-malignant disease of the stomach. It is a long, non-motile bacillus, frecjuently joined end to end to form threads. Sarcinse occur in the form of colonies of cocci arranged in squares, said to resemble bales of cotton ; they are rarely found in advanced cases of carcinoma of the stomach. 5. Examination of the faeces.—After the exclusion of other causes of hemorrhage, especially haemorrhoids, the discovery of occult blood in the ffeces may be useful in the diagnosis of duodenal ulcer and of cancer of the stomach. It may be recognized spectroscopically, by the formation of hsemin crystals, or by Adler's benzidin test. Extreme care in preliminary dieting is unnecessary, as well-cooked meat does not interfere with the test. (For methods of examination, the reader is referred to Hutchison and Rainy's " Clinical Methods," 5th edition, 1912.) MALFORMATIONS AND MISPLACEMENTS, ETC. Congenital malformations and misplacements of the stomach and duodenum are rare. Stenosis may occur at the pylorus, in the de- scending portion of the duodenum, or at the junction of the cardiac and pyloric portions of the stomach (congenital hour-glass stomach) ; occasionally diverticuli are present. Acquired malformations almost invariably result from contraction of fibrous tissue or from new growth. Congenital misplacement may be present in situs transversus or in hernia, wliile the acquired variety may be part of a generalized enteroptosis or may occur as the rare volvulus. CONGENITAL ATRESIA OP THE PYLORUS Cases have been described in which the pyloric end of the stomach terminated blindly, or in which only an exceedingly fine communication existed between the stomach and the first part of the duodenum. In these cases no thickening is found around the pylorus. In all the recorded instances the disease has run a rapidly fatal course. Frequent vomiting from birth should direct attention to the possibility of this condition. Hitherto no case has been diagnosed. Gastro-duoden- ostomy or gastro-jejunostomy should be performed.