7S2 THE KIDNEY 6. Anuria from destruction or removal of renal tissue: (i) Gradual destruction. (ii) Sudden complete destruction or removal. 1. Hysterical anuria.—Anuria may last for several hours or even days, but no symptoms of m'semia supervene. A copious polyuria imme- diately follows the anuria. 2. Circulatory anuria.—After severe, prolonged operations temporary oliguria or anuria may result from the low blood-pressure of shock, and also from the effect of the anaesthetic and the absorption of antiseptics. If the kidneys are diseased, this may initiate continuous and fatal anuria. In shock caused by grave injuries to the body, and in the collapse of cholera, anuria is present. 3. Reflex anuria.—The passage of urethral instruments, especially if roughly used, or if necessitated by disease in the deeper part of the canal, may be followed by suppression of urine. The urethra may be healthy and its mucous membrane intact. The kidneys may show chronic nephritis or deep congestion, but sometimes they appear normal. There is usually a rigor with rise of temperature to 103° or 104° Fahr. In the majority of cases the symptoms are due to septic absorption, and in some to a combina- tion of septic absorption and a reflex effect on the circulation of the kidneys, while in a few they are purely reflex in nature. Surgical interference with the bladder may be followed by suppression of urine. Reflex impulses from a ureter, started by a catheter or stone, may inhibit the secretion of the corresponding kidney. The function of both kidneys may be suppressed and complete anuria result owing to the lodging of a stone in one ureter or the kinking of the ureter of a movable kidney. The second kidney is always diseased. {See Calculous Anuria, p. 837.) Disease of one kidney, such as pyelonephritis, may reflexly cause oliguria or tem- porary attacks of complete anuria. 4. Infective anuria, (i) Hcematogenous.—In acute nephritis caused by a hfematogenous infection, in septicaemia, influenza, pneumonia, typhoid fever, and in auto intoxication from gastro-intestinal infection, suppression of urine is frequently present, and may be fatal. Anuria following urethral operations is toxic in nature in many cases. In haematogenous infection of the kidney with the Bacillus coli communis complete suppression may occur. ((See Hsematogenous Pyelonephritis, p. 802.) (ii) Ascending.—An acute ascending infection of the kidneys may cause fatal anuria. Chronic septic pyelonephritis secondary to disease of the lower urinary organs is accompanied by oliguria, and complete anuria may super- vene. (iS'ee Ascending Pyelonepliritis, p. 802.) 5. Urinary-pressure anuria.—Complete anuria may follow the sudden relief of urinary tension such as is caused by the quick emptying of an over-distended bladder. Rapid occlusion of both ureters by stone or malignant disease also leads to complete suppression of the renal function. {See Calculous Anuria, p. 837.) 6. Anuria from destruction or removal of renal tissue. —The removal of a solitary kidney, or of the only working kidney, is followed by anuria, and death in a few days. If the second kidney is active, but incompetent from disease, the patient may survive the operation and die some months afterwards. Where the kidney is slowly destroyed by disease there are attacks of partial or complete anuria, and finally complete suppression.