638 HERNIA 2. Badly chosen cases and unsuitable metliods. Thus, even Bassini's method is incapable of dealing with large hernias, especially in men over 40, and in the presence of atrophied abdominal walls. Operations done under general anaesthesia on patients the subjects of asthma or bronchitis are likely to result in failure. Simple approxi- mation of the abdominal layers in umbiUcal or ventral hernias of any size is generally quite useless. 3. Tightly tied sutures—especially if "mattress sutures " are used, since strangulation of the tissues is produced and the sutures cut out too soon. The forcible dragging down of the conjoined tendon is apt to produce a separation of the muscular fibres above the level of the inguinal canal. The practice of dragging up the neck of the sac by sutures passed through the abdominal wall and then tied produces a cicatrix and therefore a weak spot in the muscle, and tliis may easily be the starting point of a recurrence. In my opinion the practice is unsound and should be abandoned. 4. Unduly short convalescence : tlus should never be less than three weeks in bed, and one week on a couch or chair. 5. Postoperative vomiting : this is best avoided by the use of spinal analgesia. 6. The overlooking of lateral sacculi in a hernia: this, however, is rather a failure to cure than a recurrence. 7. Omission to relax the tension on the sutures after operation, by flexion of the knee and liip. 8. Constipation, which induces straining, especially when the patient has to use a bed-pan. The bowels should be kept loose and the semi- recumbent (Fowler) position permitted during the act. 9. Distension due to flatulence: this apphes especially to abdo- minal hernia. 10. Allowing the patient to come round from the ansesthetic before appUcation of the bandages. A sudden spasm of vomiting is often enough to rupture the deep sutures and undo the whole of the work. After-treatment of hernial operations.—Firm bandag- ing should be the rule after operation, a soft, thick pad of wool being placed over the part to prevent any oozing. On his return to bed the patient's hips and knees should be semiflexed, and kept in this position by means of a rest or pillow for a period of a fortnight in cases of inguinal and femoral hernia when any plastic closure has been attempted. For some time after the bandages are discarded, wliile the cicatrix is still young, the rings should be supported by the pressure of the hand during defsecation, coughing, or other expulsive effort. On no account should any form of truss be applied. In young children, care must be taken to prevent the soiling of the