ACUTE OBSTRUCTION: SYMPTOMS 467 odour is due to bacterial decomposition of the intestinal fluids accumu- lated above the obstruction, and may be as marked in cases in which the obstruction is high up in the jejunum as in obstruction of the large intestine. In fact, regurgitant vomiting occurs earUer and is more severe the nearer the obstruction is to the stomach, and it is often entirely absent when the colon is the seat of the obstruction. The third symptom characteristic of the onset of acute obstruction is shock, which is usually well marked within a few hours, and is at first due to the profound impression made upon the sympathetic and other nerve fibres distributed in the abdomen. Later, the patient passes into a condition of collapse, which is aggravated by the loss of fluid from persistent vomiting and sweating, and by intoxication from absorption of toxins formed in the decomposing contents of the bowel above the obstruction. The face is pale, the eyes are sunken, the pulse is rapid, feeble, and thready, the respiration shallow and sighing, and the temperature persistently subnormal. The skin is covered with a cold, clammy sweat. The hands, the feet, and the tips of the nose and ears become cold, blue, and shrivelled, and there is persistent, insatiable thirst. The patient often suffers greatly from cramps, especially in the calf muscles. He usually remains conscious ; indeed, is often abnormally alert, even to the very end, and fails to realize the gravity of his condition. Frequently a motion is passed just after the onset of pain and vomiting, the lower bowel being emptied by spasmodic contraction of the segment below the obstruction. Thereafter there is complete arrest of the passage of faeces and flatus, and the patient has no desire to defalcate, except in those cases in which the bowel is strangulated low down, when there may be tenesmus. Enemata are often retained, and if returned the fluid flows away without force and unaccompanied by faeces or flatus. The presence of indican in the urine is fairly common in cases of acute obstruction, but it is not characteristic of this condition, as it may be a symptom of other acute affections. It is due to bacterial decomposition of proteins, resulting in the formation of indol in the small intestine, wliich is excreted by the Iddney as indican. Tliis symptom is most marked in obstruction of the small intestine, and is generally not present till the second or third day. An examination of the abdomen in the early stages, as a rule, gives httle information. The belly is usually flat, flaccid, and not tender. Later, it is more prominent, and when peritonitis begins it becomes rigid. Tympanites occurs to a greater or less extent in all forms of acute obstruction, but is most marked in obstruction of the large intestine, particularly in volvulus of the pelvic colon. Distension