204 THE TONGUE 1 See also Vol. I., p. 498. are unquestionably liable to become cancerous ; indeed, it is sometimes impossible to distinguish clinically between the simple tumour and one that has already undergone a malignant change. They should be removed by elliptical incisions which pass deeply into the tongue, and the edges of the wound should be sutured. MALIGNANT TUMOURS Sarcoma Primary sarcoma of the tongue is rarely met with, and probably many of the recorded cases do not properly fall under this heading. Microscopically the tumour may consist of round or spindle cells, and in most cases there is a very well-marked liistory of injury or prolonged irritation. The degree of malignancy in the recorded cases varies so enor- mously that it is, perhaps, too early yet to speak with decision of the diagnosis and treatment of sarcoma of the tongue. In some cases the growth appears distinctly encapsuled, as do sarcomas elsewhere in the body; in other cases the tongue is exten- sively invaded and the growth soon spreads to the lymphatic glands. Lympho-sarcomatous tumours originating in the lymphoid tissue at the base of the tongue have been described, and seem to form the most malignant variety. The large round-celled tumour grows much more slowly, while slowest of all is the fibro-sarcoma, that patho- logical cross-breed, midway between the fibroma and the malignant growth. With regard to treatment, we may repeat what has been said above in connexion with simple tumours. All new growths of the tongue should be removed. If the rate of growth of a tumour suggest a sarcomatous nature, or if there be recurrence after removal of a doubtful tumour, an attempt should be made to extirpate the disease by cutting widely into the healthy tissues beyond the limits of the growth. Glandular involvement, which has been a not infre- quent concomitant in reported cases, will be a contra-uidication to operative treatment, unless there be a good prospect of getting wide of the disease. Endothelioma, or Endothelial Sarcoma ^ Tumours of this nature starting in the lymph spaces or blood- vessels of the tongue have been described by Eve and others. They appear to vary much in maUgnaiicy, in some instances growing slowly and causing a local invasion only. At the present time much uncertainty exists as to the exact nature of some of the tumours which have been described as endotheliomas. Here, as