993 VAGINAL DEFECTS By careful dissection between the bladder and tlie rectum the distended cervix or upper part of the vagina, as the case may be, is reached. The retained blood having been evacuated, the wall of the cavity is freed, pulled down, and sutured to the lower part of the canal or to the surface skin. Systematic dilatation must be employed for many months afterwards. Where the length of vagina to be restored exceeds 2 in. hysterectomy should be performed. Baldwin has successfully constructed a vagina on four occasions by transplanting a portion of the ileum between the bladder and the rectum. DOUBLE VAGINA This deformity is due to want of fusion of the vaginal segments and of the Miillerian ducts. It is usually, but not always, associated with a double uterus ; when it is not, the longitudinal septum ends just below the cervix. The deformity may be discovered accidentally, or the patient may complain of marital difficulty. If causing no dis- ability, it should be left untreated ; otherwise the longitudinal septum should be removed and the two halves of the vagina joined by sutures. VAGINAL SEPTA Occasionally an annular septum occurs in the vagina, giving rise to dyspareunia. It must be cut away if causing inconvenience ; other- wise it should be let alone. VAGINAL FISTULA Vesico-vaginal fistulse occur as a result of prolonged laboiu' or of operative procedures. Uretero-vaginal fistulaj are occasionally met with after total hysterectomy. Recto-vaginal fistulas result either from laceration during childbirth or from an abscess in the recto-vaginal septum. Treatment.—A vesico-vaginal fistula may be dealt with either by simply paring the edges and drawing them together by suture, or, when large or intractable, by separating the bladder and vaginal walls and suturing the aperture in each separately. In some cases it may be necessary to deflect a flap from the adjacent part of the vaginal wall to cover the deficiency, or the upper part of the vagina can be detached from the lower portion, closed, and left as an annexe of the bladder {colpocleisis). If these methods fail, the abdomen should be opened, the bladder separated from the vagina, and the apertures in each closed. It is absolutely necessary to cure cystitis, if it exists, before performing any operation. A ureteric fistula, if the communication of the ureter with the bladder is still maintained, may be treated by paring and suturing, 3 /