958 SPERMATIC CORD scrotum, lying in front of the testis and running up into the abdomen. There is frequently an impulse when the patient coughs or cries. By steady pressure the fluid can be returned into the abdomen, but the sac soon refills when the patient stands upright. The diagnosis has to be made from congenital hernia, with which, however, it may be complicated. Treatment.—As the condition always represents a potential hernia, it should be treated as a hernia. A truss must be worn con- stantly for two years, and the hydrocele must be tapped occasionally. As this treatment is irksome, a radical cure as for a congenital hernia is better and surer. HEMATOCELE OF THE TUNICA VAGINALIS By this term is meant an extravasation of blood into the cavity of the tunica vaginalis. The condition is not common. Etiology.—In the majority of cases a hsematocele is preceded by a hydrocele, but this is by no means necessarily so, although French writers generally believe that previous inflammatory conditions of the tunica vaginalis are nearly always present before the onset of the hsematocele. 1. Spontaneous origin.—In some cases of hsematocele the condition appears to arise without any cause. The most careful questioning both before and after the diagnosis is established fails to elicit any history of injury, strain, or previous disease of the testis or its covering, and examination of the testis after removal gives no clue to the origin of the hsematocele. It is possible in these cases that the blood-vessels are primarily at fault, but this has still to be proved. 2. Injury.—The great majority of cases of hsematocele are due to a definite injury, perhaps the most frequent being in the tapping of a hydrocele. It follows in one of two ways : (a) During the tap- ping a vessel is injured in the tunica vaginalis, which rapidly fills with blood. A warning of this may be given at the time of tapping, by the escape of blood-stained fluid from the cannula, (b) A vessel may rupture after the tapping, owing to the sudden relief of pressure due to the removal of the hydrocele fluid. In these cases the swelling will rapidly return after tapping, but the physical signs will alter from those of hydrocele to those of hsematocele. Hsemorrhage into a hydrocele may also be due to a blow, or to the strain of muscular effort or even coughing; and for the same reason a hsematocele may occur in the tunica vaginalis without the previous formation of a hydrocele. 3. A hsematocele may in rare instances be secondary to a malignant new growth either of the testis or of the tunica vaginalis.