23 CHRONIC MASTITIS than upon any other point. The breast is made up of a number of sector-shaped lobes which are practically independent organs, each opening upon the summit of the nipple by the separate orifice of its own proper duet. Very frequently chronic mastitis afiects one of the lobes alone, or several adjoining ones, while the rest of the breast remains normal and unaffected. It will be observed that these facts supply a most important means of distinction between chronic mastitis and malignant disease. It is a characteristic feature of carcinoma that it has little or no respect for anatomical boundaries. If a carcinoma starts at one point in the breast it will not remain confined strictly to the lobe in which it originated, but will infiltrate the surrounding tissues in a more or less centrifugal manner, producing a rounded lump which has no relation to the anatomical shape of the particular lobe in which the growth originated. Sometimes the breast contains two or more non-contiguous sector- shaped areas of induration, while in other cases, of course, the whole breast presents an indefinite induration. It must, however, be remembered, in respect to this important physical sign, that it does not exclude the possibility that an early carcinoma is present within the sector-shaped area. If, however, the area of induration is uniformly and finely granular, without any localized lump or induration, this unpleasant possibility may be excluded almost with certainty. Chronic mastitis and fibro-adenoma—Areas of chronic mas- titis are not infrequently met with in the immediate neighbourhood of a fibro-adenoma, giving to the smooth surface of the tumour a rough, granular feeling. The pathology of such areas is not difficult to fathom if it be borne in mind that a fibro-adenoma often arises in connexion with, and necessarily obstructs, one of the ducts of the breast. The acini which open into this particular duct, having no outlet, undergo the usual changes of chronic mastitis. It is often exceedingly difiicult to differentiate a fibro-adenoma, thus obscured by surrounding chronic mastitis, from a carcinoma. I have most frequently met with such fibro-adenomas in or near the axillary tail of the breast. F. T. Paul has, moreover, shown that a fibro-adenoma may originate in an area of pre-existing chronic mastitis by the over- growth of the connective tissue of one particular lobule of the affected area. Thus fibro-adenoma may be either a cause or a consequence of chronic mastitis. Chronic mastitis in duct papilloma.—In another condition chronic mastitis may arise from obstruction of the ducts, namely, duct papilloma. When a duct papilloma obstructs one of the large ducts near the nipple the corresponding lobe is often mapped out