THE TESTIS 938 out. If suppuration occur, consent for removal of the testis will often be given, but if not the abscess should be opened and the disease eradicated as far as possible. Bpididymectomy is not indicated in acute cases, as the body is invariably afiected. Chronic cases.—The usual constitutional treatment for tuber- culosis should be carefully carried out, and beyond supporting the testis in a suspensory bandage no local treatment is necessary. Treatment by injection of tuberculin has proved of value, and should always be tried in chronic cases. Bier's method of passive congestion has also been used with success in cases of tuberculous testis, and may be given a trial before more radical methods are tried. If general treatment fails, and the condition goes on to suppuration, one of the three follow- ing operations may be advised :— (a) The abscess is opened and the diseased parts are thoroughly scraped with a sharp spoon so as to remove, as far as possible, all tuberculous tissue. This may be followed by healing, and the testis is saved, although its function is lost. Frequently, however, a sinus persists, and further treatment becomes necessary. (b) Epididymectomy.—In this operation the diseased epididymis is dissected off the body of the testis, care being taken to save the vessels, and an attempt made to obtain healing by first intention. The proce- dure has the advantage of leaving the patient his testis, but the advan- tage is a sentimental one, as the organ is functionless. Consent for this operation can often be obtained when castration is refused. Its chief value is in those cases where the second testis has already been removed or is the seat of advanced disease. (c) Orchidectomy.—It is a question for consideration, in all cases of tuberculous epididymo-orchitis in which the disease is limited to the testis, whether early castration is not the best treatment. The loss of one testis is no real disadvantage to the patient, while the risk of a general genito-urinary tuberculosis is a matter of supreme import- ance. It cannot be gainsaid that a large number of patients with chronic tuberculosis of the epididymis recover and remain well if general constitutional treatment for tuberculosis is efficiently carried out; but in many cases the disease progresses to other parts of the genito-urinary tract, leading ultimately to the death of the patient. This result may be prevented by an early orchidectomy. When castration is performed for tuberculous disease the cord and vas should be removed as high as possible, and it is usually advisable to remove the vesicula seminalis at the same operation. TUBEECTJLOUS EpIDIDYMO-OeCHITIS IN CHILDREN Tuberculous disease of the testis is rare in children, only nine cases being diagnosed in the London Hospital in children under the age