3o8 THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM and trachea stimulated to further research. Chevalier Jackson of Pittsburg introduced in 1907 the direct examination of the stomach through a straight tube, and by its means has diagnosed many surgical conditions. The Souttar-Thompson gastroscope was a great advance and showed that the greater part of the stomach could be investigated by indirect vision. I believe, however, that the use of an indirect-vision gastroscope of this type is more dangerous than exploratory laparotomy in the hands of a competent surgeon. The Hill-Herschell gastroscope, which combines both direct and indirect methods, is a great improvement, and has already been used with success in the differential diagnosis between multiple hsemorrhagic erosions and chronic ulceration. 2. Inflation—Inflation with air is useful in the diagnosis of gastroptosis, dilated stomach, or hour-glass stomach, and in showing the relationship of certain tumours to the stomach. In the latter case dilatation of the colon is sometimes also employed. This method was first adopted in England by Samuel Fenwick. It must be used with care in selected cases, and never employed when evidence of active ulceration is present. Fatal accidents after inflation have occurred from rupture of the stomach and from hsematemesis in cases with active disease. The stomach may be inflated in two ways—^with air through a stomach-tube to which a Higginson syringe is attached, or by CO2 evolved from the intragastric mixing of tartaric acid and sodium bicarbonate. The former method is the more accurate, and is abso- lutely under the control of the observer, its only disadvantage being that it involves the passage of a stomach-tube. It should be used in all cases in which the patient permits this manoeuvre. On the other hand, inflation with CO2 is easier and involves less manipulation. A little less than a teaspoonful of tartaric acid dissolved in about 2 oz. of water is administered; a teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in half a tumbler of water is then given slowly until the desired degree of inflation is reached. The outline of the stomach in many cases becomes visible, or is easily mapped out by light percussion. 3. X-ray examination.—Examination of the stomach by means of a screen after the ingestion of a bismuth meal is of aid in the diagnosis of obscure cases, and may demonstrate the shape, size, and position of the viscus, the presence of gastroptosis, dilatation, hour- glass deformity, or cardiac stricture. (Fig. 364.) From 1 to 2 oz. of bismuth carbonate is given in bread-and-milk or arrowroot, and the patient screened at intervals according to the nature of the case.