86 THE BREAST have been unduly restricted, the small size of the breast and of the primary lesion seeming to invite a limited excision. Exploratory in- cision prior to operation. — Some surgeons believe it to be dangerous to incise a doubtful carcinoma be- fore removing it, on ac- count of the danger of liberating cancer cells wliich may become im- planted upon the field of operation. The risk is a very small one if precautions are taken ; but, of course, a carcino- ma should not be incised if the diagnosis is certain. In case of doubt a small incision is made down upon the growth and its enucleation is attempted. If the effort is unsuccess- ful an incision is made into, but not through, the central portion of the growth. If, after inspection, or removal of a small piece, malignancy is diagnosed, the wound is stuffed with a small swab, the deeper portion of wliich has been dipped in pure phenol, and the small wound is tightly sewn up over the swab. The instruments, towels, swabs, and gloves so far used are discarded, and the operation for carcinoma is begun. Naked-eye characters of an incised carcinoma.— The tumour may creak \mder the knife, but more commonly cuts like a piece of potato. It cannot be shelled out of its bed, save in rare instances, and it exliibits radiating fibrous processes firmly anchored amid the surrounding fat. In colour it is greyish or pinkish- grey, in this respect and in its consistency contrasting with the leathery toughness and yellowish tinge of chronic mastitis, and with the whitish enucleable fibro-adenoma. Upon the greyish surface of a carcinoma, yellow dots representing areas of necrosis are frequently visible. An opaque fluid (cancer juice) can be scraped from the cut surface, wliich becomes characteristically concave as soon as the section is made. Fig. 283.—Duct papilloma and duct car- cinoma in the same microscopic field. A large duct crosses the field vertically. From its right wall a small duct papil- loma projects into the lumen. From its left wall is seen an outgrowth of columnar-celled carcinoma which is in- filtrating the surrounding tissues, x 20.