758 GALL-BLADDER AND BILE-DUGTS is rarely total, and nearly always first reaches the peritoneal surface at the fundus (Plate 100). In most cases drainage is safest and best ; in a few the fundus only may be excised; and, even for total gan- grene, ample drainage and isolation by gauze packing is probably the wisest course, for in these cases the shortest possible operation, with little loss of blood, is essential. If the gall-bladder is firmly adherent to surrounding structures as the result of chronic inflammation, it may be impossible even to see the viscus until the adhesions are separated. To avoid peritonitis or fistula, great care is ne- cessary in separating the stomach, duo- denum, or colon, for where the gall- bladder has leaked into these viscera communications frequently exist. After exposure, these densely adherent gall- bladders are often found to be quite small and closely contracted on a mass of stones. They are frequently very tliick-walled, and often white and shiny (Fig. 532). Such gall-bladders should be removed, for a certain proportion of them turn out to be the seat of malig- nant disease. Sometimes the greater part of the gall-bladder has been destroyed, only the neck and cystic duct remaining. After removal of the calculus, a tube must be led out from the duct and the cavity walled off by gutta-percha tissue or gauze. The omentum is useful as a covering for the involved area. Cholecystectomy.—The removal of a moderate-sized gall-bladder, if the region of the cystic duct is free, may be com- menced by catching and dividing the cystic artery and duct, and then separating the gall-bladder from the liver from below upwards. A very large viscus must sometimes be emptied to secure a view of the region of the neck. When the gall-bladder is shrivelled, or when the parts about its neck are obscured (Fig. 525), then it is best to separate the organ from the liver as a first step, and to use it as a tractor while the cystic duct and artery are carefully exposed. As a rule, the gall-bladder is not removed when drainage of the ducts is necessary, but if thought desirable; a tube may be brought Fig. 532.—Chronically in- flamed and thickened gall-bladder with cal- culi. Such a gall-bladder is often the seat of malignant disease.