THE PENIS 970 Patients with external pseudo-liermaplirodism therefore resemble females, and are often named and educated as girls; but, in view of the fact that 95 per cent, of all pseudo-hermaphrodites are males, the patients should always be educated and treated as boys. External pseudo-hermaphrodism is sometimes complicated with ectopia vesicae. The condition of the secondary sexual characters in these patients and their sexual instincts vary. In some cases the secondary character- istics are undoubtedly masculine, and no doubt of the sex exists after puberty ; but in others the secondary characters which in the human race are almost confined to the male do not develop, and the sexual instincts may be so perverted that the patient, although a male with testes, may live happily as a married woman. Determination of the sex may be impossible in some cases without microscopic examination of the genital gland. The psychology of these patients is important from the medico- legal standpoint, and the condition may account for some cases of sexual coldness or perverted sexual instincts met with in apparent females who are really males. Fortunately, pseudo-hermaphrodites are usually sterile, either from obvious reasons or because the undescended testes are malformed and non-functional. PHIMOSIS In phimosis the prepuce cannot be retracted freely over the gians owing to its length, to smallness of its opening, or to adhesions. These conditions are frequently combined, and the phimosis may be either congenital or acquired. Congenital Phimosis In the newly-born infant the prepuce is normally slightly adherent to the glans penis, but these adhesions disappear as the child gets older, so that inabiUty completely to retract the prepuce in the newly born should not be called phimosis and does not necessarily call for circum- cision. Apart from compHcations, circumcision is necessary—(a) if the preputial orifice is so small that the end of the glans and the orifice of the urethra cannot be easily uncovered ; (6) if the prepuce is long and projects well beyond the glans (this may be associated with a narrow preputial orifice or not) ; (c) if the prepuce is closely adherent to the whole of the glans penis ; (d) if, although the prepuce can be retracted behind the corona, there is difficulty in getting it back—^in other words, if there is a tendency to paraphimosis. Symptoms.—Children with phimosis are brought to the surgeon for two reasons—because the parents think that circumcision is required, or because some complication has arisen.