HERNIA 6i4 cases, supposed to be congenital, are conjecturally attributed to overaction of the gubernaculum testis, but elongation of the mesen- tery and enteroptosis furnishes a better explanation. Hernia of the bladder.—The bladder is occasionally met with projecting into the sacs of inguinal or femoral hernias ; at other times it is seen, especially in the direct form of inguinal hernia in elderly subjects, with prostatic obstruction or pulmonary diatheses, and in the perineal and pudendal hernias, presenting as a bulging fleshy mass quite uncovered by peritoneum. In such cases great care must be exercised not to mistake it for a thick-walled sac. The presence of loose muscular fibres running in various directions and of large veins on its surface should be noticed, and any doubt as to its character cleared up by the passage of a rigid bougie, the beak of the instrument being turned into the protrusion. The nature of the hernia may be suspected when, in such patients, a history is obtained of the swelling being more marked before, and less prominent after, micturition. The chief characteristics of hernias which lack a peri- toneal sac are those of irreducibility and liabiUty to incarceration ; this applies especially to hernias of the csecum and sigmoid. TREATMENT OF HERNIA IN GENERAL The following points must be considered, bearing in mind that only two methods are available, viz. palliative and operative, and that only the latter is curative. Age. Infancy. — Hernia has occasionally been cured spon- taneously in quite young children. In most cases it is not cured, for, although apparently so, it frequently reappears in early adult life. The difficulty of treating young children by palliative means is considerable, for the following reasons: (1) Their restlessness and irritability and constant crying tend to force the rings open and shift the truss. (2) Their skins are tender, and in the poorer classes are easily excoriated by the accumulation of dirt and sweat beneath the truss. (3) Constant increase in size demands a relay of fresh trusses. (4) The tissues are so delicate that the perpetual pressure of a truss probably does more harm than good. (5) The ignorance of the mothers in the poorer classes, and the question of expense, result in the treatment being improperly and intermittently applied. The objections to operation during infancy are the possibility of spontaneous cure, the delicacy and weakness of the tissues, and the danger of fatality or of sepsis. In young adults a hernia can only be cured by operation. The surgeon's decision will be influenced by the following factors :—