395 THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM Chemical examination of the gastric contents gives a result similar to that found in gastric carcinoma (p. 385). In the spindle-celled variety gastric symptoms may be absent, but hiematemesis was observed in half the cases. A tumour is nearly always present, smooth, painless, and mobile. Prognosis.—The average duration of life is about fifteen months in round-celled sarcoma, twenty-eight months in spindle-celled. Death usually occurs from exhaustion. Perforation has taken place in 10 per cent, of the cases of round-celled sarcoma. Treatment.—This is the same as for carcinoma. Ziesche and Davidsohn have collected records of 53 operations, in 32 of which resection was carried out, with a mortality of 25 per cent. Partial gastrectomy on the lines of that carried out for carcinoma is necessary in all cases of diffuse growth. In the pedunculated form, removal of the growth with the portion of gastric wall from which it springs is all that is necessary. Gastro-jejunostomy should be carried out when resection is im- possible and pyloric obstruction is present. SARCOMA OF THE DUODENUM Primary sarcoma of the duodenum is extremely rare. As a rule it is round-celled and involves the whole duodenum. Obstruction is rarely produced, the lumen of the gut being usually increased. TUBERCULOSIS, SYPHILIS, FISTULA, ETC TUBERCULOSIS OF THE STOMACH Tuberculosis of the stomach is usually secondary to tuberculosis elsewhere, most often in the lung. It may occur as a primary lesion ; Barchasch states that 6 cases had been recorded up to 1907. Of 107 cases studied by Ricard and Chevrier, in 3 only was the stomach alone involved. It is more uncommon than tuberculous infection of the intestine ; thus, in over 3,000 autopsies on tuberculous subjects (Diirk, Simmonds, LetuUe) the stomach was affected 13 times only, whereas intestinal infection is stated to occur in over 50 per cent, of post-mortems on tuberculous subjects. Infection probably occurs through an erosion becoming infected by the tubercle bacillus. Tuberculosis of the stomach presents two clinical types—(1) hyper- trophic ; (2) ulcerative. 1. The hypertrophic variety usually affects the pyloric region, and, as in other parts of the alimentary canal, is frequently mistaken for carcinoma. This is the least usual form of disease, and shows itself by symptoms of stenosis.