3IO THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM tied with three threads of fibrin hardened in alcohol. One is swallowed three-quarters of an hour after an Ewald test meal, and the saliva tested for KI at intervals of fifteen minutes till the reaction is obtained, normally in an hour to an hour and a quarter. Another test of a similar character is the " desmoid " test of Sahli. It is based on the assumption that catgut in the raw state is soluble in the stomach. A pill is made of 0-5 grm. of methylene blue and enclosed in a rubber sac made by twisting up the pill in a thin piece of rubber tissue and tjdng the neck with thin catgut. The pill is given with or just after the midday meal, and the urine examined five, seven, and eighteen or twenty hours after. Its excretion is recognized by the bluish colour given to the urine. If tliis be absent, the chromogen alone may be occasionally though rarely present; it may be demon- strated by the appearance of a greenish-blue colour when the urine is boiled with one-fifth its volume of glacial acetic acid. If it be found within eighteen or twenty hours the test is called positive. Opinions differ as to the value of these tests ; the information obtained is approximate only ; they should not be used when it is possible to give a test meal. The fasting stomach should be empty or nearly so. Motor in- sufficiency is present if, on the morning after a light evening meal, or six hours after a test meal (Leube) of a quarter of a pound of minced meat and bread, food can still be extracted from the stomach by the tube. After the stomach-tube has been passed in the morning in the fasting stomach, Ewald's test breakfast (a slice of stale bread or toast and a pint of weak tea) should be given, following gastric lavage if necessary. It is withdrawn by the stomach-tube an hour later. The general appearance is noted, and total acidity and free HCl estimated. Examination of the vomit.—The quantity vomited should be noted as an indication of dilated stomach, as also the characteristic yeasty smell, and presence of food known to have been taken by the patient some days previously. The presence of blood in large quantities is obvious ; in smaller quantities it may be difficult to discover oe may demonstrate itself as coffee-groxmds vomit. The presence of traces of blood may be proved by the detection of hsemin crystals, by spectro- scopic examination, or by the benzidin test. Pus is occasionally found in the vomit from communication with an empyema of the gall-bladder, rupture of an abscess of the gastric wall, or of a perigastric abscess into the stomach cavity. The presence of bile in the vomit is important in cases of duodenal stricture and in regurgitant vomiting following gastro-enterostomy; it is detected by Gmelin's test. Fsecal vomit is found in cases of gastro-colic fistula.