INFANTILE PYLORIC STENOSIS 315 of a stenosis of pylorus of this nature obtained from young or new- born infants. It has been suggested, as explaining differences in the result of treatment (p. 318), that there are two groups of cases, one a true congenital condition, the other the result of pyloric spasm Infantile stenosis is more frequently met with in male than in female children (80 per cent, males) ; of the 6 cases at the London Hospital, 5 were males. The stomach is large and has thickened walls. The pyloric region feels firm, and on section shows a marked thickening due to hyper- plasia of the circular muscular fibres, sharply limited on the duo- denal side, but extending for some distance into the j^yloric antrum. (Fig. 367.) The pyloric canal may be completely blocked to the passage of fluid, although a probe may pass readily. The mucous membrane in the pyloric region is thrown into longitudinal folds (Fig. 368). As Cautley and Dent have pointed out, " A single longitudinal reduplication of the mucous membrane, much more marked than any other fold, forms a conspicuous feature in many of the specimens. This prominent fold may be compared to the verumontanum of the male urethra. Indeed, these stomachs in appearance commonly resemble the dissected - out bladder and prostate." A chronic gastritis often complicates these cases, and aids in the production of the obstruction. Symptoms.—These are characteristic. The child is perfectly healthy at birth, and in most cases is breast-fed for about a fortnight and does well. Then vomiting unaccountably commences, perhaps as early as three days or as late as six weeks after birth. It is forcible, projectile, contains mucus, and occurs sometimes after every feed, at others after three or four have been retained. Bile is never present in the vomit. The food is changed ; apparent improvement occurs in many cases for a few hours or a day, but relapse inevitably occurs. Considerable delay in the adoption of proper treatment is often occasioned by this intermission. The child loses weight and becomes constipated. If the abdomen is examined shortly after a meal, peristalsis may be noticed passing across the epigastric region from left to right, and a definite tumour lying transversely—the liypertrophied pyloric portion of the stomach—may be felt. The remainder of the abdomen is sunken. In some cases tetany develops. Diagnosis-'—Tlie history of vomiting coming on a few days or weeks after birth, its projectile character, the presence of visible peristalsis and a palpable tumour, make a clinical picture which is unmistakable.