THE (ESOPHAGUS 254 an abrupt change into that of the stomach. This is again a favourite position for stricture from ulcer or malignant growths. According to Bryant, the average diameter of the oesophagus is f in., but at its commencement the diameter is | in. The transverse exceeds the antero-posterior diameter. In the dead subject the lumen-is small and the mucous membrane thrown into folds. The appearances as seen in life are very difEerent. Viewed with the oesophagoscope, the oesophagus is an open tube, its lumen enlarging and diminishing with each respiratory movement. Anatomical relations in the neck.—The deep situation of the oesophagus in the neck renders its exposure difficult. Its most important relations, laterally, are the carotid artery and jugular veins. The posterior surface of the left lateral lobe of the thyroid is in relation with its anterior surface. The left recurrent laryngeal nerve has close relation to its wall. The trachea lies directly in front, the vertebrae, prevertebral muscles, and fasciae behind. Operation for exposure in the neck (Fig. 34.5).—The oesophagus can be satisfactorily exposed by an incision along the anterior margin of the sterno-mastoid muscle on the left side, low down in the neck. The great vessels are identified and drawn out- wards with the sterno-mastoid muscle. The trachea and left lateral lobe of the thyroid are displaced inwards. The superior and middle thyroid veins are divided or avoided. The inferior thyroid artery and recurrent laryngeal nerve should be avoided. The oesophageal wall will then be exposed after a little blunt dissection. Anatomical relations in the thorax.—The oesophagus traverses the superior and posterior mediastina. It is situated imme- diately behind the lower part of the trachea and the left bronchus, the latter structure crossing it from right to left. It then lies in close relation to the posterior surface of the pericardium and the diaphragm. It passes through a special aperture in the diaphragm, and enters the cardiac end of the stomach about in. below this opening. It has close relation with both pleurae. The arch of the aorta crosses in front of it from right to left. The descending thoracic aorta first lies to its left side and then passes behind it, and finally reaches its right side at a point 3 in. above the diaphragm. Behind the oesophagus are the vertebral column and left longus colli muscle ; the thoracic duct in the superior mediastinum ; the vertebral portions of the right intercostal arteries and the vena azygos minor. The vagus nerves have close relation to its wall, forming the " plexus gulae." Operation for exposure in the thorax—The oesophagus may be exposed in the thoracic part of its course by removing portions of the ribs between the angles and the transverse processes of the