THE PENIS 966 HYPOSPADIAS Hypospadias is a congenital abnormality of the urethra and penis in which the external opening of the urethra is on the under surface of the corpus spongiosum. It is the result of arrested development of the penis occurring in early foetal life,, so that the differentiation from the female condition is not complete, and in cases of complete hypospadias the diagnosis of the sex may be difficult. Such a con- dition is termed pseudo- or external hermaphrodism. Depending upon the situation of the urethral orifice and the amount of deformity of the penis, three varieties are distinguished —(1) hypospadias of the glans penis, (2) penile and peno-scrotal hypospadias, (3) perineo-scrotal hypospadias. 1. Hypospadias glandis.—This variety is due to the failure of the invagination of the surface epithelium forming the urethra in the glans to join the genito-urinary sinus which forms the urethra in the body of the penis. The opening, which may be double, is situated just at the attachment of the glans penis to the body of the organ. The penis is usually well formed, and the prepuce, which is generally redundant, forms a land of hood over the glans. If the opening of the urethra is sufficiently large, the condition causes no difficulty in coitus or micturition. 2. Hypospadias penis.—The external opening of the urethra is in the body of the penis, and usually at the junction of the penis and scrotum (peno-scrotal variety). It is due to failure in development of the uro-genital sinus and the corpus spongiosum. The penile urethra is represented by a moist red furrow, and the corpus spongiosum by two dense fibrous bands lying on either side of the under surface of the penis, and representing the sides of the original cloaca. These two bands cause the penis to be curved downwards and incapable of normal erection. The glans penis and the corpora cavernosa are usually ill developed. The patient suffers from difficulty in micturition, and is unable to project the stream beyond the scrotum, wliich is therefore liable to become eczematous. Coitus is in most cases incomplete or impossible. 3. Hypospadias perinealis.—This form of hypospadias is rare, and is usually associated with cleft scrotum and undescended testes, making differentiation of the sex difficidt or even impossible. The opening of the urethra is in the perineum (Fig. 574). The penis and glans are ill developed, the corpora cavernosa being very small, and the scrotum is bifid. Coitus is impossible, and the patient has to micturate in the squatting position. There is never incontinence of urine in any degree of hypospadias, as the opening is always below the constrictor urethrse. The diagnosis of the condition is obvious on examination. Treatment.—Hypospadias glandis usually requires no treat-