MAMMARY CANCER: DISSEMINATION 57 embolic theory, should most frequently occur. It is noteworthy also that cancerous deposit in the femur, with the rarest exceptions, com- mences in the upper third of the bone. The intimate connexion of the periosteum with the deep fascia in the region of the great tro- chanter facilitates the invasion of the bone in the trochanteric region as soon as permeation has spread so far. Moreover, spontaneous fracture of the humerus occurs most frequently at the level of the deltoid insertion. As in the femur, fracture occurs most often at the point nearest the trunk at which the bone is subcutaneous, and consequently in close relationship with the fascial lymphatic plexus. Speaking generally, the liability of a bone to cancerous deposit or spontaneous fracture increases with its proximity to the site of the primary growth. All these peculiarities, difficult to explain on the embolic theory, show the working of a slow centrifugal process of spread from the primary focus. It may be especially mentioned that spontaneous fracture of the femur is three times more common upon the side of the primary growth in the breast than upon the opposite side. A femur fractured owing to secondary cancerous deposit presents a characteristic skiagraphic picture in that the fracture is situated just below the great trochanter, while the troclianter itself j^resents an area of rarefaction owing to the replacement of bone by soft malignant tissue. Perhaps the most extreme instance of secondary bone deposits is the case of whicli a plaster cast is preserved in the nauseum of St. Thomas's Hospital. The patient had a cancer of the right breast. At the time of death the skeleton was greatly distorted. The sternum and ribs sank until the former appeared to touch the vertebral column, the whole thorax being flattened out transversely. The pelvis exhibited a precisely similar modi- fication. The right humerus and both femora were fractured. But the forearms and the legs preserved their normal shape. Thus even in this extreme case no support can be found for the embolic theory. Taking centrifugal spread in the parietes as proved, the question arises, In what plane does the growth spread ? On the assumption that the growth could spread along the skin to a considerable distance, many operators have advocated the ablation of very large areas of skin. My researches show that invasion of the skin is secondary to spread in the plane of the deep fascia. The sldn nodules are isolated efflorescences springing up from below, and the skin is not a highway for the spread of cancer. The growth spreads in the plane of the deep fascia because in this layer is situated the main parietal lymph- atic plexus, the fascial plexus. The results of operators who remove large areas of skin are less satisfactory than those of surgeons who remove less sldn and a wider extent of deep fascia. In my own