ACUTE DIFFUSE PERITONITIS 571 by its use. A pliable tube of soft metal, provided with many open- ings, is inserted in the rectum, and connected with a reservoir con- taining normal saline solution maintained at a temperature of 105° to 110° F. The reservoir is raised from one to two feet above the level of the buttocks, and the fluid allowed to run slowly in. By this means some twelve or more pints of fluid can be absorbed in a day. Care must be taken to keep the quantity within reasonable limits, lest the lungs become waterlogged. If drainage-tubes have been used, they should not be allowed to remain in place for more than three or four days. By that time they will have done all that can be done by drainage, and longer retention may be followed by a troublesome sinus and an imnecessary weakening of the abdominal wall. Vomiting may be controlled by small repeated doses of tincture of iodine or of cocaine ; sometimes gastric lavage may be advantage- ously employed. The use, in cases of B. coli peritonitis, of a multivalent anti-coli senmi has yielded promising results, and may be given a trial. Complications of acute diffuse peritonitis.—Most of the fatal cases terminate by septic intoxication, and many from a general septica3mia. When, with the removal of the focus of infec- tion, and the placing of the peritoneum under the best conditions for dealing with the remaining infection, death from these causes has been averted, the chief complications to be looked for are the following :— 1. Intestinal obstruction.—Paralytic distension is very common, and, unless peristaltic action is quickly restored, death from septic absorption mil soon occur. But, apart from this paralytic form of obstruction, mechanical obstruction may occur from adhesions and kinking of the bowel. This is shown by inability to get the bowels open in spite of the presence of peristalsis, by increasing distension, and by renewed vomiting which sooner or later becomes fseculent in type. A further operation (enterostomy or enterolysis) may possibly succeed, but the outlook in such cases is extremely grave. 2. Cellulitis and gangrene of the abdominal wall around the wound are occasional, but very uncommon, complications. 3. Residual abscesses.-—After the subsidence of a diffuse peri- tonitis a localized collection of pus may appear anywhere within the peritoneal cavity. The commonest variety is the subphrenic abscess (see p. 572) ; whilst after the use of the Fowler position, without efE- cient drainage of the pelvis, a pelvic accumulation of pus may occur. 4. Pneumonia and empyema.—These complications sometimes occur within the first week or fortnight after the operation for diffuse peritonitis.