PYONEPHROSIS If bacilluria or clironic pyelonephritis is present, this should be energetically treated. The production of abortion or the induction of premature labour is seldom necessary, but may be called for in a severe case. Urinary antiseptics and vaccine treatment should be given. Nephrotomy has yielded good results, in severe cases. In acute ]:)ilateral pyelonephritis, premature labour should be induced. Nephrectomy may be necessary in grave unilateral pyelonephritis. It is well borne in the early months of pregnancy, but less so after the fifth month. The mortality is 9-5 per cent. (Cova). PYONEPHROSIS Pyonephrosis is distension of the kidney and its pelvis with pus or purulent urine. There are two forms—(1) pyonephrosis secondary to hydronephrosis, or uro-pyonephrosis ; (2) pyonephrosis from acute pyelonepliritis. Etiology.—The etiology of uro-pyonephrosis is similar to that of hydronephrosis. The condition is unilateral, most frequent on the right side and in women. The obstruction is usually situated high in the ureter and is due to stone, stricture, or ureteral duplication. The superadded infection is either ascending, from recent cystitis, or hsematogenous. Pyonephrosis developing in acute pyelonephritis may complicate chronic disease of the lower urinary organs, and is more frequent in men. The bacteria are those of other renal infections. A pyonephrosis is " open " when the obstruction is incomplete, and " closed " when it is complete. Pathology.—When the infection ascends, the pelvis is greatly dilated. In other cases the kidney is transformed into a large multi- locular sac, and the pelvis is small and hidden. The kidney is frequently firmly adherent to its surroundings, and may be sur- rounded by a thick fibro-fatty layer. The interior is lined with smooth, tough, thick membrane, and the wall contains sclerosed and infiltrated renal parenchyma. Partial pyonephrosis may occur from blocking of one section of a dichotomous pelvis or of one or several calyces by stone. In uro- pyonephrosis the contents are urine with a varying admixture of pus. In pyonephrosis there is pus with little urine. Primary or secondary calculi may be present. (Fig. 538.) The ureter is dilated, thickened, and tortuous when the obstruction is low down. Clinical features.—The symptoms of cystitis may obscure those of pyonephrosis. In the ascending variety there are usually symptoms of pyelonephritis. Suppuration in a hydronephrosis is shown by a rigor and a rise in temperature.