THE PENIS 974 the subcutaneous tissue of tlie groin, abdomen, or scrotum. The skin of the penis hangs down empty in its usual position. Treatment.—The wound must be freely opened up so as to arrest all haemorrhage, and the penis brought back into position and sutured. Laceration of the urethra should always be examined for and appro- priately treated. CONSTRICTING BODIES Constriction of the penis by thread, string, rings, and other foreign bodies is not infrequent. The constricting band is either placed round the penis to satisfy morbid sexual impulses, or in children and young adults to prevent nocturnal enuresis or emissions. In a few cases it is a form of practical joke of the patient's companions. The penis in front of the constricting band becomes swollen, con- gested, and oedematous, so that the band cannot be removed, and in a few cases gangrene results. The swelling may be so severe that the constricting band is completely hidden, and the diagnosis can only be made by the liistory and the swelling. Treatment.—In most cases an ansesthetic is necessary, and the band is then removed as ingenuity suggests. The use of a director and a Gigli saw is sometimes necessary for the division of metal rings. NEW GROWTHS OF THE PENIS INNOCENT GROWTHS Angiomas (nsevi) of the penis have been described, but are rare, the only common innocent growths of the penis being papillomas. Papilloma Warts of the penis may be divided into hard and soft varieties. Hard papillomas are usually single, and are less common than the soft variety. They resemble warts in other parts of the body, and if left untreated or irritated may become carcinomatous. In some cases a horny growth develops in them, and horns of several inches in length have been described. In elderly men, hard warty growths should be looked upon with suspicion as the commonest starting-point of car- cinoma of the penis. The growth should be carefully microscoped after complete removal. Soft papillomas are frequently associated with venereal disease or retained secretion from phimosis, but may occur independently of either of these two causes. They are usually found in the sulcus behind the corona, or on the glans, are multiple, bleed readily, and have a foul secretion. They may be either pedunculated or sessile, and there is frequently associated enlargement of the inguinal glands. Treatment.—Papillomas both of the hard and of the soft variety