LINGUAL CARCINOMA in tlie tongue substance continuous with the ulcer. The surface bleeds readily on examination. If the mouth has been kept clean, and especially if, with the idea of cleaning up a dental ulcer, washes have been ordered or iodide of potash prescribed, the appearance may be different. The surface of a foul ulcer readily cleans under proper treatment, and sloughs and offensive smell may both be absent. 4. The fissured form commences in the cracks or clefts left after chronic glossitis, syphilis, and more rarely tuberculosis. Fissured cancer is uncommon, and is difhcult to diagnose in the early stages ; the chief features being the callous character of the ulcer and the induration of its edges. 5. Indurative form ("wooden tongue"). — The whole tongue becomes peculiarly fixed, shrunken, and hard, often as the result of previous inflammatory changes. The amount of ulceration present may be quite slight, and may be overlooked when situated at the posterior part. An attempt has thus been made to describe the chief clinical varieties of the disease ; and it may be well to emphasize again the fact that ulceration, although usual, does not invariably accompany the development of cancer. 6. Double epithelioma—Diffuse and hypertrophic forms have been described. Situation.—Any part of the tongue may be attacked, but the disease is much commoner in the anterior two-thirds. The sides of the tongue, more liable to irritation, are also more liable to cancer. I have seen a great many cases at the junction of the anterior faucial pillar with the side of the tongue. Cancers at the back of the tongue are easily overlooked ; they spread rapidly and deeply, and are difficult to deal with. Epithelioma may affect the tongue from surrounding structures, such as the floor of the mouth, tonsil, and lip, but these will be con- sidered under their respective headings. Symptoms.—Pain, salivation, bleeding, inability to open the mouth, are some of the symptoms which cause a patient to seek relief. Pain often referred to the ear is common in cancers at the back of the tongue. The pain in the ear is generally regarded as referred from the lingual to the auriculo-temporal, but it may well be con- nected with the course of the glosso-pharyngeal or vagus, especially the latter, since similar auricular pain is common in cancer of the larynx. Sometimes pain is curiously absent, and the patient comes dissatisfied with the non-healing of an ulcer, or delays seeking advice until a large fungating mass involves the tongue. Salivation is usually present and troublesome. 0