CHRONIC ENDOCERVICITIS lOII iodine (1 drachm of the tincture to a pint of water), biniodide of mercury (1-4,000), or lysol (1 drachm to the quart). Later, astringents are employed, such as tannic acid, alum, or sulphate of zinc (2 drachms to the quart). Soluble vaginal pessaries containing ichthyol or other drugs in a glycerine basis are a more potent method of making applications to the cervical surface. The direct application of antiseptics such as carbolic acid or '" iodized phenol " (iodine 1, phenol 3) on a swab is the most efficient method of direct medication, and if persisted in cures a certain pro- portion of cases. It is, however, a lengthy, troublesome, and uncertain means of treatment. Operations.—Scraping th.e diseased cervical mucosa with a sharp :scoop is the most rational treatment. Not infrequently it is also necessary to curette the corporeal endometrium, but owing to the depth to which the cervical glands penetrate the tough cervical tissue, nothing short of the vigorous application of a strong, sharp scoop will suffice to eradicate them. The surface of the erosion is similarly treated. In bad cases one of the following operations may be per- formed. Trachelorrhafhy is indicated where, in addition to the cervicitis, the cervix is badly split. The lips of the laceration are denuded on their inner and opposed surfaces, except for a narrow strip in the centre of each, and they are then approximated by sutures, so that most of the eroded area is removed and the laceration repaired at the same time. The cervical endometrium above should always be scraped as well. The operation is faulty, in that a strip of the eroded area is utilized to form the lining of the restored part of the cervical canal. Tracheloplasty.—The disadvantage attaching to trachelorrhaphy is avoided in tracheloplasty, in which a wedge of the cervix is excised, including the whole of the eroded area. The edges of the two lips thus formed are then sutured to the edges of the cervical canal and to one another on either side of this. Amputation of the vaginal cervix.—A culi of mucous membrane covering the cervix is reflected, the cervix amputated circularly, and the edge of the cuff sutured to the edge of the cervical canal. It is the best operation for persistent and severe chronic cervicitis, and is specially indicated where the vaginal cervix is much hypertrophied. TUBERCULOUS CERVICITIS This very rare condition usually coexists with corporeal disease. It presents as an ulcerating surface, commonly mistaken for carcinoma, but dis- tinguishable from it by microscopy. It requires hysterectomy.