"3 ABSCESS OF THE SPLEEN HYPERTROPHY IN LEUKAEMIA The distinction between splenic leukjemia and splenic anpemia can only be made by a differential blood examination. The charac- teristic change in the blood is the presence of myelocytes and a great increase in the total number of white corpuscles. Treatment.—In Johnston's table only 6 out of 49 cases of splenectomy for leukremia survived operation. This heavy mortality would suffice to contra-indicate operation, apart from the fact that enlargement of the spleen is only one manifestation of a general disease, and that its removal, although relieving the abdomen of a heavy- burden, is unlikely to check the progress of the disease should the patient survive the operation. INFLAMMATIONS ABSCESS In general blood infections the spleen is frequently the seat of acute congestion. The circulation in the large capillaries and veins is slow, and the walls of the vessels are very pervious, so that micro- organisms are readily deposited from the blood-current. Abscess of the spleen may occur in the course of acute infective diseases, or in any general pysemia. It not uncommonly results from the breaking down of a septic infarct, e.g. in infective endocarditis, and sometimes follows on injuries, the abscess probably resulting from the breaking down of a hsematoma. The pneumococcus has been found in some cases of acute splenic abscess (Fig. 290), and J. P. Maxwell has recorded 2 cases of splenic abscess in South China in which he found the amceba of dysentery. Chronic suppuration may be due to tuberculosis, actinomycosis, or hydatid disease, or result from the breaking down of a gumma or a septic infarct. A splenic abscess may rupture and invade the general peritoneal cavity, the subphrenic space, the stomach, or the colon, or may burst through the diaphragm and cause an empyema. Perisplenitis and adhesions readily form. The area of splenic dullness increases, and, when adhesions form with the abdominal wall, localized swelling and oedema may occur. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of splenic abscess is based on the general signs and symptoms of suppuration—a septic temperature, leucocytosis, etc.—and the local signs of pain, tenderness, and swelling in the situation of the spleen. The condition may generally be dis- tinguished from renal suppuration by the absence of colon resonance, between the tumour and the anterior abdominal wall.