37 HARD FIBRO-ADENOMA Morbid anatomy.—Fibro-adenomas are always surrounded by a very definite capsule of fibrous tissue which is but loosely adherent to the surrounding breast substance. In shape the smaller examples are spheroid or ovoid, while the larger ones are more or less lobulated (Fig. 260). On section the capsule is seen as a layer clearly defined from the whitish or pinkish-white substance of the tumour. Knobbed and foliated fibrous masses may protrude from the cut surface, or the tumour may be homogene- ous, presenting a smooth section marked by whorls and bands of fibrous tissue, in which here and there a few small stellate chinks f ' f are just visible to the naked eye. Microscopical anatomy. —Fibro-adenomas arise from local hypertrophy of the transparent fibrous tissue surrounding the epi- thelial tubes of the breast, called by Warren the periductal tissue, which develops at puberty. The epithelium in many cases of fibro- adenoma appears to play a purely passive role, but sometimes the acini exhibit considerable pro- liferative activity. The micro- scopical varieties of fibro-adenoma are not elinicallv distinguishable. Origin and development of fibro-adenomas.—In the common form of fibro-adenoma, called by American autliors intra- canalicular, the growing fibrous tissue around a duct becomes con- voluted and infolded into the interior of the duct in the form of blunt rounded processes, each of which is covered by atrophic epithe- lium representing the stretched epithelium of the duct. Secondary knobs and convolutions develop upon the ingrowing processes. The whole interior of the rounded tumour, within its fibrous capsule, is packed with these blunt polygonal processes. If in this stage the tumour is cut into, the closely packed lobulated masses come apart and protrude through the incision (Fig. 261, b). If an empty paper bag, squeezed together by the hands into a tight ball, be cut through with a knife, the appearance of a fibro-adenoma in section is closely simulated. Such a paper ball is structurally comparable to a fibro- adenoma. A microscopical section at this stage shows masses of fibrous tissue of polygonal outline separated by narrow epithelial-lined clunks. Fig. 260.—A typical fibro-adenoma after enucleation.