VESICAL DIVERTICULA 855 DIVERTICULA A diverticulum is a pouch lined with vesical mucous membrane, surrounded by fibrous tissue, coarse fat, and often some non-striped muscle, and com- municating with the bladder by a nairow opening. Diverticula should be distinguished from the pouches or saccules of a sacculated bladder commonly seen in prostatic obstruction. They are single or multiple, small as a pea, or as large as or larger than the bladder cavity. Small diverticula are frequently multiple. The orifice has sharply defined edges, may admit a crow-quill or the point of the forefinger, and frequently is surrounded by trabeculation. The ureteric orifice sometimes opens in the wall of the diverticulum or close to its orifice. (Fig. 547.) Diverticula are most frequently found in the lateral walls or on the posterior wall. Rarely they open on the trigone. They may occur in infants, but are most fre- quently found in male adult life. Symptom s.—T h c symptoms are usually puz- zling and irregular. There may be apparently causeless attacks of frequent micturi- tion at varying intervals or almost continuously, or re- ciu-rent attacks of difficulty and retention of urine. Symptoms are sometimes entirely absent, and the diverticulum is discovered accidentally. Micturition in two parts may be present in large diverticula. Some- times the second supply is purulent when the first is clear. On passing a cathe- Fig. .547.—Diverticulum of bladder ter the bladder is apparently (cystoscopic view), emptied, when the point of the catheter slips onwards and a large quantity of urine is passed. The edge of the diverticulum may sometimes be felt with a sound. A large diverticulum can be felt as a tumour in the lower part of the abdomen \\ hen the bladder is distended. Diagnosis is made with the cystoscope. The dimen- sions and position of a diverticulum are demonstrated by skiagraphy after distending the 1)ladder with a bismuth emulsion. Complications.—These are—(1) dilatation of one or both kidneys, (2) infection, (3) calculus in the diverticulum, (4) malignant growth at or near the opening. Prognosis and treatment.—The prognosis is grave when infection has taken place or when malignant growth exists. After infection, washing the bladder has little effect on the diverticulum. In the female subject a Kelly's tube may be passed, and a catheter introduced through this into the orifice, and the diverticulum washed out. The following opera- tions have been performed : — 1. Drainage outside the bladder.—This is only applicable to large diver- ticula, and leads to a permanent urinary fistula.