596 HERNIA (d) A fibroma of the inguinal canal begins at the inner end of the canal, arising as a rule from the sheath of the rectus abdominis muscle, and is very fixed and hard ; it is painless, of slow growth, and of rare occurrence. (e) Glandular swellings may be recognized by their marked lobula- tion, association with other such swellings, rapid increase in size, and tendency to break down, and by the rarity with which single glands are affected here. (/) For the differentiation from femoral hernia, see p. 598. When the hernia is scrotal, the diagnosis is again easy except in some cases of old-standing hydrocele of the vaginal process, in which reduction of the fluid is accomplished only gradually, and the walls are too thick to allow of translucency. The following points will help : The mass is dull to percussion ; tliis means either fluid, omentum, or incarceration. Fluid gives a smooth, tense, heavy tumour, which in this case will reduce very slowly, and as slowly return, and which will often give a characteristic " tlurillto one hand when flicked smartly by the finger of the other. Omentum is rarely reducible in large hernias, is always lobulated, and seldom tense. Incarceration produces constitutional disturbance, and has the characters already described {see p. 591). At times it may be difficult to diagnose the presence of a hydro- cele of the tunica vaginalis when in association with an irreducible omental scrotal hernia, if both are of long standing. There is, how- ever, generally a slight constriction to be felt between the two, but the question is not one of much practical importance. Such a case is shown in Fig. 459. From hydrocele of a hernial sac, or from a large vaginal hydrocele, a hernia may be diagnosed by the fact that in the former conditions the swelling is localized to the lower two-thirds of the scrotum, is tense, elastic, heavy, painless, dull to percussion, devoid of tender- ness, often translucent, and by the cord being distinctly felt for a space between the upper end of the swelling and the external abdominal ring. Femoral hernia.—All structures which leave the abdomen to pass into the limbs or abdominal wall carry with them for a short space an investment from the transversalis fascia which lines the abdomen, and which is gradually lost on their surface. In the case of the femoral vessels this investment, known as the " crural or femoral sheath," is well marked, and is constituted by a downward prolongation of the transversalis fascia in front and the iliacus fascia behind. It forms a funnel-shaped passage which is subdivided into three compartments by two fascial partitions. The outer of these contains the femoral artery, the middle contains the femoral vein.