RECTAL ULCERATION 699 rectal neuralgia lias been made in some cases. An ulcer in the sinus may cause infection in the ischio-rectal fossa, and possibly may rarely be the starting-point of chronic difiuse ulceration. Ulceration caused by injuries.—Accidental wounds of the rectum are rare, but may initiate chronic diffuse ulceration. Ulcera- tion has followed injury with the stem of an enema tube, and also wounds made for the removal of haemorrhoids, etc. ; this postoperative danger is enhanced if the patient be feeble and resume the upright posture before the wound has healed. Some authorities consider that erosions of the mucosa by hard scybalous masses may be a possible starting point of a progressive ulceration. Portions of the rectal wall may be so severely damaged by the passage of the fa'tal head during labour tliat an infective gangrene may ensue. In such cases large portions of the mucosa or even the deeper parts of the bowel wall may slougli. This latter cause is held by some to be a cause of chronic septic ulcera- tion, and in this way it is sought to explain the greater frequency of ulceration in the female sex. Follicular ulceration is rare. Numerous ulcers, more or less circular, and with sharply cut edges, involve the whole thickness of the mucosa, and may be associated with a similar condition through- out almost the entire colon. In some cases the condition seems to liave a relationship to chronic renal disease. It probably plays no part in the etiology of chronic rectal ulceration. Chronic diffuse ulceration.—Excluding tuberculous disease, where the diagnosis is made upon bacteriological or pathological grounds, most cases of chronic diffuse ulceration are of obscure origin. Whatever be the prime cause, the common organisms of sup- puration, viz. streptococci, staphylococci, and the Bacillus coli, are in great part responsible for the spread and chronicity of the ulceration. Hence it is that some put forward syphilis as a primary cause, others maintain that chancroid is more often responsible than syphilis, some tliink that gonorrhoea may be the initial lesion, and others maintain with very good reason that some form of injury, particularly injury to the rectal wall during labour, is the most important cause. It is certain that women are more often affected than men, and a reference to these causes will show how much more frequently the female sex is predisposed. Symptoms of chronic diflFuse ulceration.—Whatever the cause, the symptoms are characteristic. The accumulation of the dis- charges in the lower bowel creates a frequent reflex desire to defsecate. Since the lower bowel contains scarcely any fa?cal material, little but flatus, mucus, pus, and perhaps blood, is passed. This frequency of deftecation is particularly present in the early morning immediately the patient assumes the upright position, or at any other