ANATOMY OF THE URETHRA 883 urethrae muscle into the posterior urethra (corresponding to the prostatic urethra) and the anterior urethra, which, again, is divided into the bulbous or perineal and the penile urethra. The urethra has an S-shaped curve. The internal meatus is situated on a level with the middle of the pubic symphysis and about 2 cm. behind it. Thence the canal passes vertically downwards for about i to J in. to the level of the verumontanum ; there it turns slightly forwards and maintains a forward and downward direction to the junction of the membranous and bulbous urethra. The canal now turns sharply upwards and foi-n-ards along the under surface of the triangular ligament. At the peno-scrotal junction it turns downwards in the flaccid penis to the meatus. The fixed curve of the urethra extends from the peno-scrotal junction to the internal meatus, the deepest part of the curve lying at the termination of the bulbous urethra, the cul-de-sac du bulhe. This is 4 cm. from the internal meatus and 3 cm. from the peno-scrotal junction. The angle formed by these two segments is one of 93 degrees. The walls of the urethra lie in contact. Its calibre a and musculature are described elsewhere (Vol. I., p. 805). The lining epithelium is columnar, except at the fossa navicularis, where it is squamous. On the posterior wall of the prostatic urethra is the verumontanum, on which the sinus pocularis and ejaculatory ducts open. On each side of this ridge is a gutter-like prostatic sinus, into which the prostatic ducts open. The membranous urethra, which is surrounded by the compressor urethrse muscle, has numerous mucous glands. On each side of this lie Cowper's glands. In the mucous membrane of the anterior urethra there are mucous glands (glands of Littre), the ducts of which open obliquely forward. There are also 10 or 12 larger lacuna? on the roof, and the largest of these (lacuna magna) opens on the roof of the fossa navicularis. The ducts of Cowper's glands open on the floor of the bulbous uretlua, 1 in. in front of the mem- branous urethra. The lymphatics of the prostatic urethra pass to the glands along the internal iliac vessels, those of the membranous and bulbous urethra to the glands along the external iliac vessels and internal pudic vessels, those of the spongy m-ethra to the inguinal and femoral glands. Female urethra.—The female urethra is IJ in. long, has a slight anterior concavity, and is intunately united with the anterior vaginal wall. The external meatus is the narrowest part. The epithelium is squamous at the external end and columnar near the bladder. EjXa.niinaition.—On rectal examination the membranous urethra can be felt in the middle line below the prostate, and the prostatic methra lies in the vertical sulcus between the lobes of the prostate. For examination of the urethra with sounds, an acorn-tipped bougie or boiujie a boule is used. If it is arrested, the distance from the external meatus is noted and a smaller instrument is tried. There may be creaking on passing through a cartilaginous stricture, grating in passing over a stone or a phosphatic deposit, or a tearing sensation when a false passage is made. Resistance is felt 5^- or 6 in. from the meatus at the contracted membranous urethra; this is overcome by gentle pressure on the perineum. There is slight resistance at the entrance of the bladder. Urethroscopy.—There are two varieties of urethroscope. In one the light is I'cflected from a lamp at the jjroximal end of the tube, and in the other the lamp is placed in the lumen of the tube at its distal end. For the anterior urethra the tube is 5^ in. long, and straight, being provided with a metal obturator. For the posterior urethra the tube is 8^ in. long, and has a curved beak, the distal opening being on the convexity of the beak.