l82 THE TONGUE Clinical appearance.—The appearance of the organ varies with the stage of the disease and with the response of the tissues. One of the earliest phases, which can be well studied in a smoker's patch, is the development of a smooth, red, slightly raised area on the dorsum of the tongue. In cases where the epithelium has not proliferated to any extent, or where it has been shed, this stage may persist for some time, and involve smaller or larger areas of the dorsum linguae ; to this condition, in which the papillise have been removed, the term " red glazed tongue " has been applied. In others, and perhaps the majority, the patch slowly becomes covered with a layer of thickened epithelium, which gives it the appearance of having been covered with white paint that has " hardened, dried, and cracked " (Butlin). The patches may be multiple, or the whole surface may be uniformly affected ; the process tends to spread on to the buccal mucous mem- brane, or it may begin there and spread to the tongue. The thickened epithelium may form a definite plate of a warty nature. Cracks and fissures are apt to appear, and a spreading ulceration which soon becomes malignant is often associated with it. Symptoms.—There is little pain, hence many patients do not ask for advice until an advanced stage is reached. Occasionally, " hardness and dryness " of the tongue is complained of, wliile, if fissures and cracks are present, highly seasoned food or hot dishes may cause a sharp smarting, or even severe pain. Taste is not impaired. Course.—The disease is extremely chronic, and when well advanced a cure is very doubtful. There are recurrent attacks of inflammation, and slowly but surely in a large number of cases the inflammatory stages pass into malignant ulceration. Drugs have little effect in advanced cases, and antisyphilitic remedies, far from being of benefit, are often actually injurious. When there is a well-marked history of syphilis, or if other stigmata of the disease be present, mercury and iodide may be tried, but they should not be given indiscriminately. Very marked results are obtained by the use of salvarsan. The prognosis is always unfavourable. Treatment is mainly directed to removing any source of irritation, such as carious teeth or ill-fitting tooth-plates. Smoking must be prohibited. Tobacco-chewing is especially to be condemned. Spirits, strong wines, highly spiced or hot foods, should not be taken. Mouth-washes of chlorate of potash, and paints of chromic acid 1-2 gr. to the ounce, salicylic or lactic acid, will be successful only in the early cases. When the tongue is harsh and dry, it should be wiped dry with a clean, soft cloth, and a little ointment {see p. 180) rubbed in night and morning. No caustics should be employed;