HERNIA THROUGH SCAR TISSUE 605 1. Hernia never occurs through the muscular wall of the abdomen except as the result of its conversion at some point into scar tissue. 2. Tliis may occur as the result of suppuration or ulceration, trans- verse division of the muscular fibres with subsequent stretched vmion, destruction by disease, or extensive division of the nerves supplying the muscles. 3. The whole thickness of the abdominal wall being converted into scar tissue, there is no true sac ; all the layers are welded together and the contents are invariably adherent, often densely so. 4. Owing to the alteration in structure of the muscle fibres, and to the fact that only by the primary union of healthy muscle can such a hernia be prevented from recurring, these hernias are particularly difficult to cure, and often necessitate extensive and difficult plastic operations. 5. Where approximation of the above nature cannot be accom- plished, recurrence can only be prevented by converting the distensible cicatrix into material which cannot stretch [see Bartlett's Method, p. 629). 6. The period requisite for the formation of a fully organized cicatrix produced by a primary imion is probably not less than forty to sixty days. Such a hernia may follow the cicatricial weakening of any part of the abdominal wall either by accident, by disease, or by inadequacy of suturing of operative wounds—whether due to faulty technique or to the character of the operation, as in drainage of abscesses or of the gall-bladder. However produced, traumatic I'entral hernia is, like umbilical hernia, constantly progressive, crippling to the patient, and difficult to repair ; it is not amenable, as a rule, to any form of truss or belt. In spite of the extensive adhesions found in the sac, possibly because of them, strangulation is seldom seen, the excursions of the contents being very limited. Lumbar hernia.—A hernia appearing through the lateral aspect of the abdomen—that is, between the iliac crest and the last rib—is known as lumbar. It is by no means common, and much doubt exists as to the etiology of those cases which are not definitely traumatic. In some cases it is apparently congenital, depending on defects in the musculature, or on absence of the last rib ; in others it follows the development of abscesses arising in the muscular wall or in con- nexion with caries of the twelfth rib ; the commonest form, however, is that which follows stretching of the scar resulting from operations upon the kidneys, especially where prolonged drainage has been emplo}'ed. The congenital form may appear in two different situations, viz. [a) behind the posterior axillary line and just beneath the last