THE VAGINA 996 presence of other foreign bodies. Occasionally it is seen in virgins without obvious cause. The surface is red, smarting and painful, and a purulent discharge flows from the vagina. The cervical canal is often infected as well, and is apt to remain inflamed long after the vagina has recovered ; by persistent re-infection it may render treatment directed to the vagina alone of no avail, particularly in the vulvo-vaginitis of children. Diagnosis.—This is made absolute by bacteriological examina- tion of the pus. The possibility of gonorrhcBal origin must never be mentioned until bacteriological proof has been obtained. The vulvo- vaginitis of children, while sometimes gonococcal, is usually staphylo- coccal, but parents are almost uniformly apt to assume the graver infection. Treatment.—Simple antiseptic douching usually suffices. In virgins, and particularly in children, the hymen may hinder douching, and, by obstructing drainage, maintain the inflammation. Where an ordinary douche tube cannot be inserted a glass catheter may be used. Gonococcal Vaginitis The clinical features and treatment of this condition are discussed in Vol. I., pp. 832-34. The disease runs a more severe course where the hymen is practically intact, because drainage and medication are alike interfered with. The hymen becomes swollen, scarlet, and so sensitive that any attempt to pass a douche nozzle causes severe pain. Complications.—Bartholin's gland often suppurates. Exten- sion of the infection to the body of the uterus and to the Fallopian tubes is common, but does not usually occur for several weeks after the initiation of the attack. Gonorrhoeal cystitis is also frequently met with. Diagnosis.—No definite statement should be made unless sup- ported by bacteriological proof ; even then caution is to be observed; The treatment of the complications of gonorrhoea generally has already been considered (Vol. I., p. 836). During the acute stage, urinary antiseptics should be given to prevent cystitis. NEW GROWTHS OF THE VAGINA CYSTS Although the vaginal wall normally contains no glands, small aberrant glandular retention cysts are occasionally found there. They rarely exceed the size of a pea. A rare condition, adenomatosis vagincB, in which the whole vaginal wall is beset with glands, has been described by the author and Glendinning.^ ' Proc. Boy. Soc. Med., vol. iv.