THE PERITONEUM 560 consequently be directed, in the one case towards the right kidney, and in the other towards the spleen. Near the summit of the pelvic ridge on the right side the appendix often lies, so that a purulent efiusion resulting from a diseased appen- dix, if it does not gravitate towards the pelvic cavity, is directed upwards alongside the colon towards the right renal or subhepatic pouch. From the arrangement both of the watersheds and of the peritoneal folds, together with the anatomical disposition of the viscera which are most frequently the source of intraperitoneal efiusion, namely the appendix, pylorus, duodenum, and bile passages, it will be seen that the right renal pouch is a region of great clinical importance. The boundaries of this pouch are : " above and in front, the right lobe of the liver and its ligaments ; below, the hepatic flexure of the colon and its attachment to the posterior abdominal wall; internally, the peritoneum covering the descending duodenum and the lumbar spine, and stretching forwards to the foramen of Winslow; externally, the parietal peritoneum of the lumbar region." The subphrenic region is also of special importance. A subphrenic abscess on the left side lies between the spleen, stomach, and left lobe of the liver on the one hand, and the diaphragm on the other, being separated by the diaphragm from the lower border of the lung, the pleural cavity, and the chest wall; below, it is limited by the phrenico- colic fold, and to the right by the falciform ligament. Similarly, a right-sided subphrenic abscess, lying between the right dome of the diaphragm and the liver, may be limited leftwards by the falciform ligament. There are, in addition, certain smaller pouches which may become the seat of internal hernias, the chief of which are the paraduodenal, superior duodenal, and inferior duodenal fossae at the left side of the 2nd lumbar vertebrae ; the retrocolic, ileo-CEecal, and ileo-colic fossae in the right iliac fossa ; and the fossa intersigmoidea close to the left sacro-iliac joint, marking the position at which the ureter crosses the external iliac artery. None of these fossae is of constant occurrence. Lymphatics.—There is no direct communication between the peri- toneal cavity and the lymphatic system, though fluids and solid par- ticles are readily removed from the peritoneal cavity into the lymphatics. There are no " stomata " between the endothelial cells, nor, over the greater part of the peritoneal membrane, are there any subendothelial lymphatic spaces. The diaphragmatic peritoneum, however, presents a vast number of pits or wells, penetrating between the tendon bundles, which are microscopic diverticula of the peritoneum, and, like it, are lined in their whole extent by endothelial cells. The peritoneal cavity is very intimately related with the subpleural diaphragmatic lymphatics, which present, according to MacCallum,