961 HEMATOCELE or lisematocele has been diagnosed instead of neoplasm and valuable time has been wasted. The diagnosis can often be settled by watching the case and noting the steady increase in size of a malignant tumour; but time is wasted in this way, and it is much better to employ an exploratory incision. The diagnosis from syphilitic orchitis is made by the history and by noting the effect of the administration of large doses of iodide of potassium and mercury, or by the employment of Wassermann's serum test (Vol. I., p. 32). Treatment.—In acute cases with small hsematoceles, or when the condition or wishes of the patient do not permit of more radical methods, the treatment consists of rest in bed, support of the scrotum, and tapping with a large-sized trocar. If the case is seen soon after the hgematocele forms, an ice-bag or evaporating lead lotion may be applied to the scrotum. When the hsematocele is very large or old-standing, or has been preceded by a hydrocele, an operation is indicated, and this results in rapid and permanent euro of the condition. Three operations may be considered :— 1. Incision and removal of the blood-clot, with or with- out drainage. This may be done to recent large hsematoceles not preceded by hydrocele or associated with well-marked changes in the testis. 2. Excision of the tunica vaginalis lining the scrotum, with removal of the clot. This operation is similar to that performed for the radical cure of a hydrocele, and is the one usually to be advised in hgematocele ; it generally results in permanent cure. In cases with a greatly thickened or calcareous tunica it may be difficult to per- form, and great care must be taken to arrest all hemorrhage. 3. Castration.—In many cases the subjects of hgematocele are elderly men, and, as has been stated, the testis may be very atrophic. Before operating on old-standing hfcmatoceles with very thick walls it is well to obtain permission to remove the testis, and to do this without hesitation if the operation prove long and tedious. It has the advantages of speedy recovery after the operation, and a certain freedom from recurrence. If suppuration occur in a hasmatocele, the swelling should be freely opened and drained, or in old-standing cases orchidectomy should be performed and the scrotum drained. HiEMATOCELE OF THE SPEEMATIC CORD Hsematoceles of the spermatic cord are divided into encysted and diffuse varieties ; both are rare. 37