CHRONIC INTUSSUSCEPTION IN ADULTS 493 The symptoms may come on gradually in the form of gastro- intestinal disturbance with occasional attacks during which there is a threatening of obstruction, which, however, passes off in some hours. This state of affairs may last over a period of months or even years, and the illness runs a very obscure course. The most constant symptom is the occurrence of repeated attacks of abdominal colic coming in paroxysms, and lasting for a period which may vary from a few minutes to some hours. It is characteristic of the pain that at the end of the attack it disappears suddenly, and the patient is at once quite comfortable again. This is especially the case in the earlier stages, and it is attributed to the bowel becoming disinvaginated and to the sudden relief of congestion. In the later stages when adhesions have formed, the relief comes more gradually. At first the attacks recur every two or three days, but as time goes on the intervals become shorter, and there is more or less constant dis- comfort, with periodic exacerbations which are frequently determined by the taldng of purgatives or unsuitable food, or by exertion. Vomiting is seldom absent during an attack of pain, and may occur between attacks ; recovery has followed an attack in which the vomiting was distinctly stercoraceous. Constipation is not a constant symptom; in fact, there is often diarrhoea, the bowels moving three or four times a day, the motions being watery and offensive, and containing much mucus and often some blood. Tenesmus is a common symptom. The patient gradually becomes exhausted from pain, is anxious and depressed, and soon shows signs of anaemia. Emaciation may be so extreme as to suggest malignant disease. On examining the abdomen, distended coils of intestine can be recognized during an attack. In the entero-colic variety there is often a localized flattening of the right iliac fossa, while the rest of the abdomen is prominent. In the majority of cases a localized, sausage-shaped tumour can be made out. It is usually ill defined towards its ends. It may be firm and elastic, or soft and doughy from fsecal accumulation. It is characteristic that the tumour varies in shape and size from time to time, and may even temporarily disappear. In some of the recorded cases the tumour only appeared during an attack of pain, and vanished with a gurgling sound when the pain ceased. Symptoms of acute obstruction eventually supervene, or per- foration occurs and gives rise to peritonitis. In a few cases spon- taneous separation of the intussusceptum has taken place, but this has been followed by stenosis. Differential diagnosis.—The majority of cases have hitherto been diagnosed only on opening the abdomen, or on post-mortem