DOUBLE-FILIGREE OPERATION 625 left in the sterilizer in the centre of the most actively hailing area till the moment of implantation, when they are lifted straight from the sterilizer into the wound. The operation is at first conducted exactly as in performing an ordinary Bassini's closure, except that the aponeurosis should be split to a point rather farther out, and the peritoneum must be more freely separated from the posterior surface of the conjoined tendon, as must tlie latter be from the aponeurosis overhang it. From this point the steps are as follows : The sac having been isolated and dealt with, the cord is held out of the way, and the first two of the sutures which are to approximate the conjoined tendon to Poupart's hgament are inserted, and their ends are caught by pressure forceps. These sutures being held aside by the assistant, the pubic section of the filigree is placed upon the peritoneum, its narrow end being close to the pubic spine, and its wide end at the inner margin of the internal abdominal ring. If the peritoneum is very loose and inclined to sag, a fine suture may be used to unite it to the filigree; as a rule, however, this is umiecessary, and all that is required is to bring the conjoined tendon into close apposition with Poupart's hgament over the -filigree by the two sutures already inserted, and then to insert as many more as maybe deemed necessary, care being taken to keep the bed in which it lies as dry as possible. In cases in wliich the muscular wall of the abdomen external to the internal ring is sound and strong, the cord is placed in position, and the iUac section of thefihgree is taken from the sterihzer and placed beneatli the aponeurosis in such a way that its inner end lies over the internal abdominal ring and upon the cord for a space of |- in., the outer end being carried outwards and laid upon the surface of the internal oblique muscle, one or two sutures holding it in place (Fig. 462, a). If the above-mentioned weak- ness is present, the muscular wall is divided from the ring outwards towards the ihac spine for about an inch, and is separated from the peritoneum by the handle of a scalpel; upon this peritoneum the outer end of the iliac section is laid, being lightly sutured in place, and the muscles are brouglit together again over it (Fig. 462, b), the inner end ■1 0 Fig. 462.—Positions of filigree sections in inguinal canal. A, In ordinary cases ; i;, where there is exces- sive weakness of inguinal region.