998 THE UTERUS ATRESIA OF THE CERVIX The cervix may become imperforate as a result of the appHcation of strong caustics. Rarely it is congenitally so. In either case, if the uterus be functional, retention of menstrual blood occurs. The site of retention varies ; if the obstruction be limited to the external os, the cervix is distended first {hcematotrachelos), and later the tubes ; if the obstruction be at the internal os, hsematosalpinx is usually the first event, the uterus distending subsequently. The clinical features are those of retained menses with symptoms of hsematosalpinx and salpingitis. Communication with the vagina should be established if possible. If, however, this cannot be done, or if the tubes are already disorganized, removal of the uterus and tubes is indicated. DOUBLE UTERUS (Fig. 580) The following degrees of double uterus depend on the extent to which the Miillerian ducts have failed to fuse :— 1. Uterus duplex.—Two distinct organs. A peritoneal fold from rectum to bladder passes between them. 2. Uterus bicornis unicoUis.—Two bodies joined to a single neck. 3. Uterus unicornis.—A bicornuate uterus in which only one body has developed, the other remaining as a narrow tube. 4. Uterus septus.—The uterus is outwardly single and of normal shape, but a longitudinal septum divides its cavity down to the external os. 5. Uterus subseptus.—A similar condition to No. 4, but the septum only reaches the internal os. Clinical features.—The deformity usually causes no symp- toms, and is only accidentally discovered. Though any uterine deformity militates against conception, repeated pregnancy has occurred in one half of a double uterus ; a decidua is formed in the unimpregnated half, and is expelled after the labour. Pregnancy sometimes occurs in the undeveloped horn of a unicorn uterus and runs the same course as pregnancy in the Fallopian tube, except that rupture is less common and a greater proportion of the cases go on to term. Hsematometra in one half of a double uterus is occasionally met with, the symptoms being those of recurring monthly pain and a cystic tumour to one side of the apparently unenlarged uterus. There is, of course, no amenorrhoea. Septate uteri have been discovered during mechanical dilatation of the organ, the edge of the partition obstructing the passage of the dilator. The half of a bicornuate uterus has heen found in the sac of an inguinal hernia, in the male as well as the female (internal pseudo-hermaphrodism).