547 APPENDICITIS Meamvliile the temperature is raised, ranging from 100° to 103° or 104° ; the pulse-rate is correspondingly accelerated, the tongue is furred, and the appetite lost. These s\anptoms last from about three to ten days according to the severity of the attack. 2. APPENDICITIS WITH LOCAL ABSCESS ^\ The symptoms at first are the same as those described above, except that they are usually more severe, though this is not necessarily the case. The probability of abscess formation increases in propor- tion as the sj^mptoms of fever and the local signs persist beyond the customary time for an ordinary attack to last. The presence of a tumour in the right iliac fossa which increases in size and definition, especially when diarrhoea replaces the initial constipation, or the existence of a tender pelvic mass together with vesical s}Tnptoms at a time when an ordinary attack would naturally be clearing up, indicates the formation of an abscess. The patient prefers to lie with the right thigh drawn up, full extension being pamful. Leucocytosis is regarded by some as of value in the diagnosis of abscess ; but, like the elevation of temperature, it is to be taken as an indication of absorption and reaction rather than of the actual presence of pus, for a large completely walled-ofi abscess may exist without either leucocytosis or fever. In a neglected case the skin of the abdominal wall may become Q3dematous and reddened, and it may even be possible to detect fluc- tuation ; but this is a sign which is rarely present, and should never be expected. If untreated the pus may make its way to the surface, but it is much more likely to rupture into the general peritoneal cavity, the bowel, vagina, or bladder ; or it may track upwards to the sub- phrenic region and rupture into the pleura or respiratory passages. 3. APPENDICITIS WITH DIFFUSE PERITONITIS The rupture or perforation of a diseased appendix, giving rise to a diffuse peritonitis, may be abrujjt and unexpected. A patient, apparently in perfect health, may be suddenly seized with violent abdominal pain and vomiting, and rapidly evince the symptoms of profound collapse. Often there are premonitory symp- toms of a more or less definite character pointing to appendicitis, but in most cases the onset of the peritonitis is sudden or at least rapid. In some instances the actual moment of perforation is indicated by sudden relief of the pain due to distension of an acutely inflamed appendix ; in others the peritonitis spreads swiftly, but more insidi- ously, from an imperfectly shut-off collection of pus around the appen- dix ; in others, again, the rupture of a localized abscess provides the starting-point of a diffuse peritonitis.