739 HYDATID CYSTS fluid. The fluid is clear, often opalescent, of sj^ecific gravity 1002 to 1010, and, when the cyst shows active growth, contains no albumin. Hooldets may be found in the fluid, but are not numerous. Secondary changes.—Hydatids may die, the cysts usually shrivelling up and the contents becoming less fluid and more gelatinous,' and, later, may become converted into a cheesy mass, sometimes with calcareous deposits. Rupture may follow slight trauma or gradual erosion. Suppuration is common and may be determined by injury. The infection may come from the bile or some adjacent hollow viscus, or may be hfomic as in typhoid fever. Clinical features.—Hydatid cysts usually obtrude them- selves on account of their size, but they may be very large without giving rise to injurious pressure on neighbouring organs. The patient may complain of dragging or a feeling of weight, or of attacks of pain depending on peritonitis or suppuration. Physical signs.—As a rule the liver is enlarged ujjwards and may compress the lung, and also cause bulging of the costal arch. When the cyst can be felt below the costal margin it is dull and usually very tense and elastic, so much so that it may resemble a solid tumour ; it rarely presents the so-called hydatid thrill. Marked tenderness, jaundice, and ascites when present are usually due to inflammatory changes, or to pressure on bile-ducts, j^ortal vein, or inferior vena cava. Jamidice is rare. Diagnosis.—Malignant disease and cirrhosis, syphilis, suppura- tion and hcpatoptosis may all be mistaken for hydatids, and even on operation midtilocular hydatids may be difficult to diagnose from cancer. When the hydatid enlarges the liver upwards, pleural effusion or hydatid disease in the lung may be simulated. In these circum- stances sldagraphy may help, the fluorescent screen clearly showing the diaphragm and its movements. Exploratory puncture should not be done when the presence of hydatids is suspected. Prognosis.—Although natural deatli of the parasite may occur at any time, the cyst may burst and disseminate, or become infected. Perforation into the peritoneum or pleura may occur with fatal results ; but rupture into the stomach, duodenum, or bile passages is less rapidly disastrous and may even result in cure. Treatment.—The essential treatment is to remove the mother ■cyst and to deal with the adventitious capsule as best possible. Cysts tliat project downwards are most safely reached through an abdominal incision, wliile for those that occupy the dome of the liver, and that cannot be satisfactorily reached from the abdomen, the thoracic route must be chosen, an incision being made in the 8tli or 9th interspace. It is necessary to protect the surrounding parts from contamination by the fluid, for fear of secondary implantation. This may be done