HERNIA 626 lying as already described. Finally, the aponeurosis is sutured in place, and the wound closed by means of Michel's cUps, which are removed on the fifth day. It will be seen that the cord comes to be " sandwiched " between two layers of filigree in the canal, the natural relations of wliich are hardly altered ; and further that the area outside the internal abdo- minal ring is fortified by a filigree which may be made of any size that is deemed necessary. Granted a primary union of the wound, the hernial gap will be found to become as impermeable and as unstretchable as a pad of leather. There will be neither pain nor discomfort afterwards ; there is not the least fear of interference with the cord or with the functions of the testis ; the necessity for any form of truss is done away with permanently, and the operation thus offers the patient a radical cure in the truest sense of the word. Operative Treatment op Femoral Hernia The sldn incision in this case is a vertical one over the site of the saphenous opening, and extends from ^ in. above the inner point of trisection of Poupart's ligament downwards for a distance of 4 in. A network of veins will be met with, formed from the superficial epigastric and circumflex iliac, and the superficial external pudic vessels ; these must be divided between ligatures. The sac will usually be found without difficulty, lying in the superficial fascia and directed towards the centre of Poupart's ligament, the neck being long and narrow, and curving round the falciform process of the fascia lata to reach the parietal peritoneum. The neck should be entirely freed from its surroundings as high as possible, and treated exactly as described under inguinal hernia, the first four of the precautionary points there mentioned being again borne in mind. The necessity of using some means for closing the femoral canal has been much debated by surgeons, and the following methods may be mentioned here :— 1. Three or four catgut sutures (not mattress sutures) may be passed deeply through the substance of the pectineus muscle, and then through the falciform process and lower edge of Poupart's ligament, so that, when tied, these two structures are closely approximated, and the saphenous opening is partially obliterated. This method does not, however, close the upper end of the femoral canal, and involves the exercise of considerable tension if the saphenous opening is to be even narrowed ; for this reason the sutures probably cut out early and do more harm than good. 2. An attempt has been made to cover the gap by turning up a flap