PRESSURE DIVERTICULA 261 From an etiological point of view these pouches are classified as follows :— 1. Pressure diverticula. 2. Traction diverticula. 3. Traction-pressure diverticula. According to Halstecl they occur in the following situations, viz. (a) in the pharynx ; (b) at the pharyngo-cesophageal junction ; (c) at the upper margin of the left bronchus (epibronchial) ; {d) just above the diaphragm (epiphrenic). 1. Pressure Diverticula The commonest and most interesting are those found at the junction of the oesophagus and pharynx. They give rise to flask-shaped pouches communicating with the lower end of the pharynx by a narrow opening which has a constant position on the posterior pharyngeal wall at the lower border of the inferior constrictor muscle. Like other diverticula in the alimentary canal, they really consist of herniated pouches of mucous membrane protruding between the fasciculi of the muscular wall. The muscle fibres generally end more or less abruptly at the neck of the sac, and the main part of the wall of the pouch is com- posed of mucous membrane covered with an envelope of thickened fibrous connective tissue. As this pouch enlarges it takes the path of least resistance, and therefore tends to protrude on either side of the oesophagus, more commonly the left. It may extend gradually downwards, and its neck become so elongated that the fundus of the sac reaches the mediastinum. It may give rise to a well-marked swelling in the posterior triangle of the neck. The gradual enlargement of the pouch is due to food being forced into its interior from above by the contraction of the constrictor muscle of the pharynx. The etiology of these diverticula has been much discussed. They are said to be congenital, but there is no actual proof of this statement. At the lower border of the pharynx, where it joins with the cesophagus, there is said to be a natural deficiency of muscular support, the so- called " Lannier " triangle (Mayo). Probably, as Keith suggests, they are generall}^ produced as follows : In the act of deglutition the bolus of food is rapidly thrown to the lower and narrowest part of the pharynx, when it is immediately grasped and driven downwards by the forcible contraction of the lower constrictor muscles. The food is squeezed between the broad resisting base of the cricoid in front and the upper end of the cesophagus behind. The posterior part naturally presents a weak resistance, owing to the peculiar arrangement of its muscle fibres, and so a small protrusion may readily occur. A slight protrusion, once formecL can be easily enlarged by intake of food at each act of deglutition. >