693 COMPLICATED FISTULA orifice is large, cure can only be obtained by perineal dissection, separat- ing the rectum from the prostate and bladder, paring the edges and suturing them. The operation is severe and difficult, and often attended with failure. (6) Recto-urethral fistula usually results from urethral dis- ease (e.g. a stricture), and very rarely from penetrating woimds. The symptoms are those of the original urethral disease and the passage of urine into the bowel during micturition. The treatment is, in the first place, that of the original disease. A stricture should be dilated and the urine drawn off by catheter. Tliis simple measure may be successful. If it fail, the fistula should be exposed by a dissection from the perineum, and the apertures closed with sutures. (c) Recto-vaginal fistula may be due to any form of peri- rectal suppuration wliicli opens both into the bowel and the vagina, to injuries during parturition, to tuberculous or syphilitic infection of either the bowel or the vagina or both, and also to cancer originating in either viscus. The symptoms peculiar to a recto-vaginal fistula are the passage of flatus and fa;>ces from the bowel to the vagina. The treatment of the fistula obviously depends upon the cause. If due to malignant ulceration the disease in all probability will be too exten- sive for removal, and a palliative colostomy is indicated. Syphilitic and tuberculous disease must be appropriately treated before any attempt is made to close the fistula. When the aperture is of small size, cauterization may effect a cure. In other cases the edges of the fistula may be pared and sutured either from the vagina or from the rectum as seems most accessible. In yet others the fistula may be exposed by a perineal dissection, the edges of the openings pared, and approximated by sutures. 2. Fistula dependent upon bone disease.—^Abscesses arising from bone disease occasionally open into the Tectum. A psoas abscess which enters the pelvis by perforating the sheath of the muscle, an abscess originating from the sacrum or ischium, or perhaps more frequently an abscess due to coccygeal caries, are examples of those which may communicate with the rectum. The diagnosis is usually easy from the liistory of the case and the physical examination. Radiography may, when necessary, aid the diagnosis of bone disease. The treatment of these fistulre is that of the original bone disease. INFLAMMATION—PROCTITIS Much remains to be learnt about the bacteriology of proctitis, and the classification adopted is clinical rather than pathological. For clinical purposes proctitis may be considered under the heads of Simple Catarrhal Proctitis, Gangrenous Proctitis, Proctitis due to Specific Organisms, and Ulcerations.