THE UTERUS roo6 alone or aided by the uterine sound. If the organ tends to roll back- wards immediately the control of the fingers or sound is withdrawn, the introduction of a pessary is contra-indicated, for its slight retaining power is inefficient unless assisted by gravity. Reposition is most satisfactorily carried out under an anaesthetic; and where cervicitis or endometritis coexists, the unhealthy mucosa should be curetted at the same time. Operations.—Of the many operations devised for retroversion, ventro-suspension and shortening of the round ligaments are the two best. Ventro-suspension consists in fastening tlie upper part of the anterior uterine wall to the anterior abdominal wall by three or four sutures that, picking up the superficial muscular layers of the former, pass through the peritoneum and aponeurosis on either side of the wound. A strong peritoneal adhesion is thus formed, which gradually stretches into a short artificial ligament about J in. long. Ventro-suspension thus performed is a very satisfactory operation, and does not interfere with subsequent pregnancy. Where, however, real fixation of the uterus has been performed, or where the fundus or posterior wall or one of the cornua has been attached instead of the anterior wall, great difficulties both in pregnancy and in labour have been experienced. Cases are on record of intestinal obstruction by the artificial ligament, but this sequel is very rare. Shortening the round ligaments.—The original operation devised by Alexander was extraperitoneal, the ligaments being exposed at the external abdominal ring. Since only cases of movable retroversion could be so treated, the operation has been largely given up in favour of intraperitoneal ligamentopexy. There are many ways of performing this operation. The most ingenious and best is as follows : The abdo- men having been opened, and the uterus anteverted, a ligature is passed under each round ligament about | in. from its uterine attachment, and tied, the ends being left long. A special curved forceps is then inserted through a little slit in the aponeurosis | in. outside the edge of the wound, and is pushed outwards, first between the rectus muscle and aponeurosis, and subsequently between the aponeurosis and peri- toneum, till the internal abdominal ring is reached. The point of the forceps (still extraperitoneal) is now made to return towards the middle line under the peritoneum of the broad ligament and parallel to and just in front of the round ligament. When it has reached the position of the previously applied ligature it is thrust through the peritoneum and the Ugature ends are grasped and withdrawn along the track taken by the instrument. The forceps being removed, traction is made upon the ligature ends until a knuckle of round ligament appears at the aponeurotic slit.