346 THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM the lesser curve the pain appears late, and is definitely relieved by taking food. The pain may be referred to the left dorsal region, and not infrequently, in an ulcer of the anterior surface, to the left shoulder. The pain is often associated with tenderness, superficial and deep {see p. .303). Superficial tenderness is uncommon, and is found in other gastric conditions ; it most often extends as a band around the body at the level of the 8th and 9th dorsal segments. Deep tenderness in the epigastric region is usual, and is accompanied by rigidity of the rectus muscle ; in ulcers of the cardiac end it is most often met with over the upjDer part of the left rectus, in those of the pylorus over a similar part of the right rectus. A patch of tenderness is sometimes present in the dorsal region to the J eft of the 9th and 10th dorsal spines. In a large proportion of cases of chronic ulcer, free HCl and the total acidity of the gastric con- tents are increased slightly in amount, or only little altered from the normal; but cases occur in which free HCl is diminished. Vomiting is usual at some time during the course of the disease, and may be one of its most prominent features. Its occurrence relieves the pain experienced from the ingestion of food. The emesis may be self-induced, but this is more often the case when the ulcer is duodenal. It must not, however, be forgotten that vomiting is infrequent in many cases of chronic ulcer. Bleeding into the stomach takes place in the majority of cases of gastric ulcer. Although it produces hsematemesis in only about 50 per cent, of the cases, microscopical examination of the vomit or fjBces will prove its existence. Anaemia may be present in patients with acute and also with long-standing chronic nlcers. Occasionally a definite tumour is felt, resembling that discovered in carcinoma of the stomach. There is no certain means of difEerentia- Fig. 376.—Portion of posterior wall of stomach, showing a chronic ulcer which had eroded the splenic artery. (^London Hospital Must'iini.)