244 THE SALIVARY GLANDS pus into the mouth. More rarely, the stone may ulcerate through the wall of the duct either into the mouth or, in the case of a stone in Stenson's duct, externally, giving rise to a salivary fistula. Calculi may also be situated in the substance of one of the salivary glands. In this position they are nearly always small and multiple, and each calculus is surrounded by a small abscess. In such a case the gland is chronically enlarged and tender, and there is a more or less constant escape of pus into the mouth. The diagnosis is not a matter of difficulty in the absence of secondary septic changes. In most cases, the calculus can easily be felt as a hard body through the mucous membrane, on bimanual examination. But if acute inflammation has supervened, the true cause may easily be overlooked, and the case treated as one of septic adenitis due to an ascending infection. To avoid this error, an attempt should always be made to probe the affected duct. Alsberg states that an X-ray examination is of material assistance. Treatment. — If the stone lies in the duct, this is easy. All that is necessary is to slit up the mucous membrane and remove the calculus with forceps. Antiseptic mouth-washes should be prescribed. The symptoms will rapidly abate, even in cases in which sepsis has supervened. Calculi in the gland are not so easily dealt with. If the affected gland is the submaxillary, it is best to enucleate it entirely ; but in the case of the parotid this is not feasible. Here an incision must be made and the calculi extracted, care being taken of the facial nerve. A gland fistula may result; this must be subsequently treated in the manner already described. ACTINOMYCOSIS, TUBERCULOSIS, SYPHILIS, MIKULICZ'S DISEASE The infective granulomata very rarely attack the saUvary glands. Actinomycosis has not been recorded as a primary infection, but any of the salivary glands may become implicated by a direct ex- tension from the disease when it starts in the face or jaw. Tuberculosis is also exceedingly rare; only about a dozen cases have been recorded in all. The main clinical interest lies in the difficulty of diagnosing the condition from subacute septic in- flammation. Too much reliance should not be placed on the tuberculin reaction. The only positive method of diagnosis is microscopical examination of a portion of the enlarged gland removed by operation. The clinical history closely resembles that of tuberculosis of lymphatic glands, i.e. the enlargement is chronic, but cold abscess formation is prone to occur. Treatment consists in draining the abscess or in partial removal of the parotid or total excision of the submaxillary gland, according to the pathological condition present, and its position.