357 GASTRIC ULCER : PERFORATION in a bladder-like way by the air contained in the peritoneal cavity. The stomach should be quickly found. As a rule the perforation is easily discovered, as it is usually on the anterior wall. Unless the case be very recent, it will generally be surrounded by yellow l3rniph. If the ulcer is not seen on the anterior surface or in the duodenum, a wide opening should be made in the gastro-colic omentum and the posterior surface examined. If no ulcer is present, the gall-bladder and pancreas must be examined, and then the appendix and pelvic organs. The perforation shoixld be infolded, chromic gut being used, and the area buried by a continuous stitch of silk. It is sometimes impossible to close the perforation in this way on account of the friability of the tissues immediately around the ulcer or the amount of induration present; in these cases the ulcer should be rapidly excised, or, if the condition of the patient will not permit, a piece of omentum may be brought up and stitched over the ulcer, or, if this is impossible, the perforation should be covered by iodoform gauze packing. As perforation of two ulcers has occurred simultaneously in many recorded cases, search should always be made for other lesions. Gastro-jejunostomy should be performed at the same time in all cases in which closure of the perforation produces pyloric contraction or any deformity of the stomach likely to interfere with its action, when more than one ulcer is present, or when the ulcer that has perforated is a chronic one. It is unnecessary in perforation of an acute ulcer on the anterior wall. The performance of this operation at the time of closure of the perforation will lead to a more rapid convalescence and the prevention of after-trouble. Various opinions have been held with regard to the need for this step. W. J. Mayo found that only one out of 18 patients needed gastro-ieiiinostomy later, and Hale White states: " Judging from the results at Guy's Hospital, it appears that patients who survive an operation for perforated gastric ulcer do so well that gastro-enterostomy is unnecessary." But this has not been the experience of most observers. Paterson found 23 per cent, of patients relapse within a year of operation. Of the 16 patients upon whom I operated and who recovered, I performed gastro-jejunostomy at the time in 6, and excised the ulcer in 1, gastro-jejunostomy was necessary at a later date in 4. After the perforation has been closed and gastro-jejunostomy performed, if this has been considered necessary, all extravasation should be gently wiped away and the abdomen closed without drainage, unless the extravasation has been considerable, when a tube, brought out on the loin, should be placed in the right or left Iddney pouch according to whether the extravasation has been from an ulcer at the pyloric or the cardiac end. If the peritoneal soiling has been general, it will be well to drain suprapubically also.