"PEAU D'ORANGE" 65 Infiltration is a very slow process, because of the resistance offered to tlie passage of cancer cells through the cramped and tor- tuous tissue interspaces. Infiltration, on account of its slow- ness, is of relative unimportance as a factor in general dissemina- tion. Permeation is a more rapid process than infiltration, because the cancer cells are growing with little resistance along the open lumen of the lymphatic vessels. Permeation may carry cancer cells to a very considerable distance from the primary tumour, and is capable of traversing the minute anastomotic lymphatic plexuses. It is accordingly the principal factor in general dis- semination. I,,,, Summary.—It will be clear from what lias been said that the processes concerned in dissemination are mainly three in number— (a)^permeation, (b) infiltration, (c) transcoelomic implantation. To these must be added, as playing subsidiary parts—[d) lymphatic embolism, whicli leads only to gland deposits, and (e) blood embolism, which is usually ineffective owing to the inability of the cancer cells to colonize the blood-stream.l Effects of lymphatic obstruction in breast cancer. —Certain of the later manifestations of breast cancer do not depend upon actual cancerous growth, but upon interference with the return of lymph from the affected part owing to obstruction of its lymphatics by permeation and perilymphatic fibrosis. The changes due to lymphatic obstruction are seen in the skin, the arms, and the serous cavities, and need brief separate consideration in each of these situations. " Pig-skin," or " peau d'orange."—One of the most charac- teristic signs of cancer of the breast in a somewhat advanced, though perhaps still operable, stage is the appearance known as pig-skin or peau d'orange. In this condition the orifices of the sebaceous glands, normally just visible, become enlarged and deepened, to form obvious dotted depressions, sometimes blackened and emphasized by ingrained dirt. The affected skin is obviously thick and leathery, and has lost its suppleness. It overlies the carcinoma, and is usually adherent to it, but later the surroiuiding skin may be involved to a considerable distance (Fig. 275). It is sometimes erroneously stated that orange- rind integument is seen only in carcinoma. Although due to cancer in nearly all cases, it may occur in syphilis, in tubercle, in cold abscess of the breast, and in elephantiasis. Pathology.—It has been taught until recently that peau d'orange depends upon the anchorage of the breast to the overlying skin by means of the fibrous bands called the ligaments of Astley Cooper, and that it is produced by the contraction of these ligaments following