628 HERNIA advantageous also to expose the neck of the sac from above Poupart's ligament, so gaining access to the entrance to the canal. Operative Treatment of Umbilical Hernia The points to be aimed at are complete removal of the sac and the closure of the abdomen in separate layers. The incision is made in the middle line of the abdomen above and below the hernia, the actual prominence being enclosed by an ellipse between these incisions. Where there is a deep layer of superficial fascia, the skin incision must be long enough to give free access to the hernia. The abdomen is opened above the level of the hernia and a finger is introduced to search for adhesions. These are separated, and the incision is then carried through the whole thickness of the abdominal wall along one side of the tumour, and the sac everted and emptied of its contents. Any degenerate omentmn is ligated and removed, care being taken to see that all vessels in the stump are fully secured. The sac, including its cutaneous covering, is then removed close to the neck of the hernia. If the gap is very wide it is often well to avoid too free a removal of the peritoneal sac, lest difficulty be foimd in closing the abdomen without the exercise of tension. The bowels are now retained by a large gauze pad placed within the abdomen, and the peritoneum is closed by a continuous suture, the pad being removed before closure. The margins of the rectus sheath are laid open above and below the gap, and the edges of the posterior layers approximated like those of the peritoneum. The rectus muscles are brought out of their sheaths, and their edges united by interrupted sutures which should include a considerable thickness of the muscle on either side, without the least constriction. If approximation can only be effected by the exercise of tension, either the muscles must be more freely brought out, or the case must be treated by filigree implantation {see p. 629). In freeing the muscles it is necessary to detach, them from the linese transversse which bind them to their sheaths. This is easily done, but, as these lines) transversse carry large vessels, care niust be taken to arrest all bleeding before proceeding to imite the muscles. Only round-bodied curved needles should be used here, since bayonet- edged or Hagedorn's needles are liable to divide muscular branches of the vessels, and so give rise to bleeding and cause loss of time. The anterior layers of the rectus sheaths are now united by a continuous suture ; one or two interrupted sutures are inserted to hold the super- ficial fascia together and obliterate dead spaces, and finally the skin incision is closed by Michel's clips. A firm binder should be apphed for the first twenty-four hours, and the patient should be placed in the semi-recumbent position.