370 THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM symptoms suggestive of gastric ulcer. Tlie hsemorrhage is alarming and profuse, but is very rarely fatal. Tuffier has stated that the death-rate is only 1-7 per cent, when medically treated; this corre- sponds with my experience. Instances have been recorded in which at operation or at the post-mortem examination no ulcer could be discovered. Hale White collected 29 such examples of this condition, and suggested for it the name gastrostaxis. It is difficult to examine the interior of the stomach satisfactorily during life, and recent acute ulcers or erosions are easily overlooked even post mortem unless the stomach be carefully examined with a lens. It is probable that there is a definite lesion of the mucous membrane in all the cases in this group. Charles Miller has described swelling and necrosis of the lymphoid foUicles in cases of this description in which the patient died from haemorrhage or the operation for it. Fred. J. Smith has found small ulcers, hardly visible to the naked eye, leading directly into blood-vessels. Treatment.—Operation should never be undertaken in these cases. The death-rate after operation is over 60 per cent., and the bleeding has recurred after all forms of treatment. Absolute rest in bed should be insisted upon and a hypodermic of morphia given. High rectal injection of hot water from 112° to 120° F. (Tripier), repeated once or twice, may be useful. Nothing should be given by mouth for forty-eight hours, salines being given per rectum every six hours. At the end of forty-eight hours feeding may be carefully begun, small quantities of albumin-water being first given, and the quantity gradually increased if well taken, followed by Benger's food or milk-and-water. 2. Postoperative H^matemesis Haemorrhage from the stomach occurs occasionally after operation upon the abdomen, and in rare instances after operations upon other parts of the body. In most cases the operation has been for some septic condition. In these cases the general condition of the patient is bad and indicative of a severe toxaemia. In most instances the haematemesis occurs within twenty-four hours of the operation, although it may be delayed, particularly in such cases as appendicitis in which there is prolonged sepsis. As a rule the blood vomited is altered in colour, and the name " black vomit " has been given to it. The death-rate of this condition is high. Purves estimated it at 69 per cent. This is in accordance with experience at the London Hospital. Several theories have been put forward with regard to its causa- tion : (1) That it is due to sepsis. (2) That it is " dependent on