SYPHILIS OF THE TONGUE 191 the infected sputum, healing does occur. The enlarged glands should also be removed. Cases which are not submitted to operation should be treated like those of chronic glossitis or simple ulcer (q.v.). Sootliing, weak astringent mouth-washes are to be preferred, and caustics are to be avoided. It may be necessary to give all food finely minced so that its pro- longed presence in the mouth for mastication may not be needed. Cocaine and orthoform are useful applications, but the first must, of course, be used with care. An application to the ulcer of iodoform 1 gr., morphia ^-i gr., borax 3 gr., by means of a soft brush, is advisable after the surface lias been gently cleaned with cotton-wool. A bismuth ointment is Sometimes valuable as an alternative. SYPHILITIC DISEASES The tongue may be attacked by syphilis in any of the three recognized periods of the disease, and the frequency with which the organ suffers makes it a valuable signpost in cases of doubtful syphilis. As in other parts of the body, these syphilitic manifestations copy, often in a very accurate manner, the appearances produced by other pathological conditions, so that the possibility of a lesion of the tongue being sypliilitic must always receive due consideration. At the same time it will not be out of place to quote Butlin's warning in this respect : " Nothing leads to greater errors in diagnosis and treatment than the tendency to see syphilis in every form of obscure affection of the tongue, or to persist in a diagnosis of syphihs when a short and vigorous administration of antisyphilitic remedies has proved of no service." Chancre The initial lesion of syphiUs is occasionally found on the tongue. Pournier discovered it here 53 times in 642 cases of extragenital chancre. The infection is conveyed by direct personal contact, or indirectly by the use of cups, pipes, glass-blowing and other instru- ments, contaminated by infected persons. As a rule the chancre is situated on the anterior part of the tongue, and, as in the case of the genital affection, may or may not show well-marked ulceration. The pathology of the lesion is the same here as elsewhere ; there is extensive proliferation of the fixed connective-tissue cells of the subepithelial layer, some infiltration of leucocytes, and thickening of the arteries and veins. As these changes cease fairly abruptly at the margin, the chancre feels like a hard nodular mass embedded in the normal supple tongue. The amount of ulceration present probably depends upon the extent to which the epithelium is affected, upon