DIFFUSE MAMMARY CANCER 53 (Fig. 269). If, on the other hand, the proliferative power of the epi- thelium is low, while the fibrotic processes are active, the " atrophic scirrhus" of old age results. If these two opposing processes are balanced, a hard tumour of not inconsiderable size, the ordinary scirrhus, is produced. The name scirrhus is often reserved for those carcinomas where the epithelium has lost its tubular arrangement (Fig. 270). If the epithelium possesses sufficient power of cohesion to retain in some degree its arrangement in gland tubes, the name acinous carcinoma or adeno-carcinoma is applicable (Fig. 271). It is important to recognize that all gradations occur between the forms of carcinoma which have just been named, and, moreover, that these gradations may occur in the same tu- mour. Thus, one part of a tumour may present a medullary appearance, while an older part shows a densely fibroid growth containing few epithelial cells. It must be remem- bered that a mass of cancer cells becomes in- creasingly fibrotic with age. But it is clinically convenient to classify the tumour according to its size and hardness, as me- dullary cancer, scirrhus, and atrophic scirrhus. Diffuse carci- noma of the breast. —Cancer of the breast usually begins in one small district of tlie breast, if not at one mi- croscopic point, and is correctly described as unicentric in origin. Cases are, however, met with where the whole breast or several of its lobes appear to undergo carcinomatous degeneration en masse, the disease lighting up simultaneously in every part of an extensive district. These cases may be described as multicentric carcinoma, diffuse scirrhus, or diffuse carcinoma. They include the most virulent forms of breast cancer, and the term diffuse carcinoma may perhaps be regarded as the pathological equivalent of the chnical term acute carcinoma or mastitis carcinomatosa {see p. 80). Fig. 270.—Typical appearance in chronic fibroid cancer of the breast. In a groundwork of dense fibrous tissue are embedded single lines of compressed and deformed cancerous epithelium. The terminal cells of the line are usually triangular in shape, x i6o.