66i ANATOMY line a little above the anus, thought by some to indicate the line of fusion of the hind-gut and proctodajum (p. 666). The intervening depressions—the rectal sinuses of Morgagni—end abruptly below and are guarded by the miniature anal valves (the intercolumnar portions of the " zig-zag" line). The sinuses and valves vary in development, and are better marked posteriorly. The appearance below the " zig-zag " line is whitish, resembling modified skin, whilst above it resembles modified mucous membrane. Squamous epithelium lines the lower part of the canal, and extends to the bases of the columns, columnar epithelium extending to the sinuses. The transformation of epithelium is a gradual one. Sometimes minute tiny pits or depressions Fig. 480.—The lower rectum and anal canal, incised longitudinally and held widely open. E.s., External sphincter muscle ; i.s., internal sphincter muscle ; L.A., levator ani muscle ; ]\i., columns of Morgagni ; s., sinus of Morgagni ; v., anal valve. are seen on the mucosa of the lower rectum and anal canal. It has been stated that infective diseases may originate in these depressions. Muscles and fasciae.—The external sphincter is a subcutaneous muscle, about 1 in. in breadth, encircling the anus, attached posteriorly to the coccyx, and anteriorly to the central point of the perineum. It is superficial to the internal sphincter muscle, the sulcus between the two being readily detected on digital examination of the anal canal. It overlies the fat of the ischio- rectal fossa. It is supplied by the inferior hsemorrhoidal and perineal branch of the 4th sacral nerves. The levator ani and the coccygeus form the pelvic floor or diaphragm ; they are enclosed in sheaths derived from the pelvic fascia, and with their fascial prolongations help to support the bowel. The levator ani is attached to the back of the os pubis in front and the ischial spine posteriorly, and between these two points to the pelvic fascia, near its " white line." The fibres pass downwards and backwards—the