LYMPHANGIOPLASTY FOR BRAWNY ARM 95 growth and large secondary deposits may shrink and disappear, and the patient may regain her health and activity. But the disturbing effect of the menopause upon the patient's general health rarely ex- tends beyond two or three years. In the same way the carcinoma appears to recover from the shock, and reasserts itself after the lapse of a few years only. And in some cases the progress of the growth is not even temporarily disturbed by the operation. Oophorectomy should be reserved for inoperable cases in women who are still actively menstruating, and who are anxious for pro- longation of nfe. Owing to the uncertainty of its action the operation should not be urged, though in suitable cases it may fairly be offered. Beatson, who introduced this method of treatment, regards case.9 of acute carcinoma and cases where metastatic growths are already in evidence as unsuitable for oophorectomy. It should be stated that he advises a subsequent course of thyroid extract. His experi- ence shows no case of permanent cure. Though in one instance the disease remained in abeyance for six years, in another for four, and in several for two years, in a majority of cases it reasserted itself within twelve months. In any given case the results of the operation cannot be predicted, but in a large number of cases the general health is improved, pain is relieved, and there is a slackening in the progress and activity of the disease. The operation is probably more beneficial before the menopause, but, in Beatson's opinion, is not contra-indicated in older women. Treatment of lymphatic oedema of the arm. — In sliglit and early cases, where the cedenia still pits on jDressure, habitual elevation of the arm, either during the night or for several hours daily, will afford relief for some time. Later on, in properly selected cases, the writer's operation of lymphangioplasty affords great relief at a very small risk ; but it is, of course, a palliative only, and does not delay the progress of the growth. In suitable cases the following benefits may be expected : {a) Complete relief from pain within twenty-four hours unless the pain is partially due to some cause, such as nerve pressure, independent of the oedema, (b) A marked and rapid fall in the tissue tension of the whole area drained by the threads, so that the arm becomes soft and flabby, (c) Rapid subsidence of the swelling, commencing immediately in the hand, and extending to the forearm within twenty-four hours. At first the upper arm is unaffected, or its diameters may even slightly increase ; but within a week or two the diameters of the upper arm also are markedly lessened. The subsidence is usually permanent, unless and until pleural effusion supervenes to interfere with drainage. These effects are at first dependent upon the adoption of proper postural after- treatment, but, after a few months, elevation of the arm may be