430 THE INTESTINES When nutrient enemata are administered, the contents lie at first in the descending and pelvic colon, and are then carried by anti- peristaltic waves towards the csecum. Hence the function of anti- peristalsis is inherent in the colon throughout its whole length, although under normal conditions it is not called into action beyond the splenic flexure. The repeated passing of the waves mixes the contents of the enema with any digestive juices that may be present, and promotes absorption of the nutriment at least as far down as the splenic flexure ; beyond this there is little evidence of the absorption of anything except water. From Cannon's experiments on animals it seems likely that, if a bulky enema is administered, part of it reaches the lower ileum. Innervation of the Intestine The intestine can carry on its functions to a great extent indepen- dently of the central nervous system. In its walls lie two nerve- plexuses with ganglionic cells—Meissner's plexus in the submucosa, and Auerbach's plexus between the circular and longitudinal layers of muscle. Meissner's plexus is distributed to the mucous membrane, glands and villi, and is concerned with the secretory activities. Auer- bach's plexus controls the movements of segmentation and peri- stalsis in the small intestine, and of antiperistalsis and the tonic constrictions in the colon. Hence these movements can be investi- gated in the excised gut, and they can be induced or inhibited by various mechanical and chemical stimuli. Thus, pinching of the gut, or the introduction of butyric or some other organic acid, stimulates peristalsis, and oxygen gas inhibits it. The best stimulus is a bolus introduced into the lumen, apparently because it produces a local distension of the bowel. At the same time, the intestine is linked to, and its functions are under the influence of, the central nervous system. It is through these connexions that the emotions so commonly produce derange- ments of the alimentary functions. Cannon has shown in cats that excitement and anger stop segmentation and peristalsis in the small intestine, and antiperistalsis in the colon. The small intestine is innervated by the vagi and the splanchnics. The latter are also distributed to the large intestine, and the fibres corresponding to those of the vagi are supplied by sacral nerve-roots through the pelvic visceral nerves. The extrinsic nerve supply gradually increases in activity, and the local mechanism decreases, from the ileo-csecal valve to the anus. Thus, the strong contraction of the colon that produces defsecation is due to stimulation of the fibres of the sacral nerve roots. The relationship between the three systems—local, sympathetic,