438 THE INTESTINES or general distension of the bowel, enlargement of a viscus, such as the gall-bladder, the spleen, or the pancreas, or the presence of a tumour may be recognized. If a localized swelling is detected, its size, shape, consistence, mobility, and degree of tenderness should be determined, and an attempt made to ascertain whether it moves with respiration. In estimating the degree of tenderness, more reliable information is obtained by watcliing the facial expression of the patient than from his verbal statements. A swelling in the line of the bowel should be firmly pressed upon with the finger-tips to see if it is indented or " pitted " by the pressure—an indication that it is a fsecal mass. In testing for fluctuation when ascites is suspected, an assistant should press with the ulnar side of his hand in the line of the linea alba to cut off vibrations of the parietes. The lateral aspects of the abdomen should be examined with one hand placed behind in the loin and the other over the abdomen in front. It is sometimes useful to examine the patient lying on the side or in the knee-elbow position. Percussion.—The note elicited by percussion over the hollow viscera is tympanitic, the pitch varying with the quantity of gas present and its tension. The character of the note is influenced by the presence of fluid or fseces in the viscus. Under pathological con- ditions, it is not always easy to identify one part of the intestinal tract from another by percussion alone, but the employment of com- bined percussion and auscultation is sometimes helpful. The stetho- scope is placed over the viscus under examination, and by percussing close to it the characteristic note of that viscus is recognized. Percus- sion is then made well beyond the limits of the viscus, and a different note is elicited. If the percussion is now continued towards the stethoscope, the original note is again recognized when the limit of the viscus is reached. Variations in pitch of the note over different viscera may be detected by scratching the surface instead of percussing. When a moderate amount of free fluid is present in the peritoneal cavity, as in ascites, the most dependent parts yield a dull note on percussion while the higher parts are tympanitic, as the intestine is floated up by the fluid. By changing the attitude of the patient, the dull and tympanitic areas are found to alter. When the ascites is extreme, this test is less convincing. If the intestine is paralysed and full of fluid, a dull note may be elicited in the flanks, and, on succussion, splashing may be detected. In every case the suprapubic region should be percussed to define the upper limit of the bladder, and if it is found to be distended it should be emptied, by the catheter if necessary, before the examina- tion is completed.