979 PRIAPISM appears at the spot. On this patch of erythema appear a group of small vesicles which soon burst, leaving small ulcers that rapidly heal. The affection usually runs its entire course in a week. In most cases the pain is trifling, but it may be severe (neuralgic herpes). Prognosis.—The condition rapidly gets well, but recurrence is common, and the excoriated surface may be infected by the Spiro- chcete fallida or other organism if the patient is exposed to infection. Treatment.—Local cleanliness is all that is needed, but no measures can be absolutely relied upon to prevent recurrence. Arsenic has been strongly recommended. Even if the disease is limited to the prepuce, circumcision may fail to cure, as the disease may reappear on the glans penis. PRIAPISM When this condition is pathological there is continued erection of the penis, often accompanied by severe pain, without sexual desire. The condition is rare, and usually only affects the corpora cavernosa, the corpus spongiosum being, as a rule, unaffected. The causes are said to be excessive coitus, injury, alcoholism, leukaemia, gout, and irritation from worms or a tight prepuce. In fracture of the lower cervical or upper dorsal portion of the spine, with injury to the cord, the penis is often turgid but without rigidity. Symptoms.—The penis is turgid and erect, tender and very pain- ful. Micturition may be interfered with, but this is not usual. The duration of the priapism varies, but it may last for weeks. Treatment is unsatisfactory, but the drug that has been used with most success is bromide of potassium, whilst morphia may be necessary on account of the pain. Incision of the penis has been tried in some cases with success, and under proper precautions should be given an early trial if bromides fail. THE SCROTUM ACUTE SEPTIC INFECTION (CELLULITIS) Acute septic infection of the scrotal tissues does not differ in cause or course from a similar infection of the sldn or subcutaneous tissue in other parts of the body. Locally it is characterized by excessive swell- ing of the scrotum, and its tendency is to end in gangrene, especially of the anterior part of the scrotum, so that the testes are exposed. The general symptoms are those of acute sepsis. Treatment.—At first the scrotum should be supported and warmth applied by means of fomentations. If the swelling does not quicldy subside, free long incisions on each side of the median raphe should be made, going through the dartos. These incisions should be