780 THE KIDNEY EXAMINATION OF THE KIDNEYS BY INSPECTION, PALPATION, AND PERCUSSION A greatly enlarged kidney forms a rounded, unilateral, abdominal swell- ing a little above the level of the umbilicus and more prominent in the recumbent posture. There is fullness in the flank, but no projection back- wards. Where the renal pelvis is greatly distended with fluid a vertical groove may be seen on the surface of the swelling. On palpation a renal tumour presents rounded borders, without any sharp edges, and frequently retains a reniform shape. It projects forwards into the abdomen, and backwards into the posterior kidney area at the angle between the ribs and the spinal muscles. With the fingers in the loin, the kidney tumour, if small, can be projected against the anterior hand by a sudden push (" ballottement"). Unless fixed by adhesions, renal tumours descend with inspiration, though rather less freely than tumours of the spleen, liver, or suprarenal body. The tumour can usually be separated from the liver, and seldom reaches the middle line. Percussion gives a dull note, merging into that of the spinal muscles behind. Anteriorly there is a zone of comparative resonance, when the colon lies on the front of the tumour. If the colon is collapsed and dull on percussion, it can be rolled beneath the fingers. On the right side there is usually an area of resonance between the renal dullness and that of the liver. EXAMINATION OF THE URINE OF EACH KIDNEY- EXPLORATION Examination of the urine of each kidney.—The urine of each kidney may be obtained by the following methods : — (a) Separators.—The principle of the separators is the formation of a septum in the middle line of the bladder, so that one ureter opens on each side of it, and the draining of each of these compartments separately. The separators of Luys and Cathelin are those most commonly used, but they have largely been superseded by ureteral catheterization. In the former, the patient lies on the back on an operating chair, and the urethra is cocainized. The bladder is washed, and 6 or 8 oz. of fluid injected. The instrument is passed ; in the male, deep depression between the patient's thighs is necessary in order to make the curved portion of the separator ride over the posterior lip of the internal meatus. The patient is now fully raised into a sitting posture and the screw turned to render the chain taut and form a membrane. The urine is collected in tubes, and the examination continued for twenty or twenty-five minutes. (6) Catheterization of the ureters.—A fine catheter, 30 in. in length, is introduced into the ureter either through a specially constructed cystoscope or tlirough an open tube under the guidance of a reflected light. The bladder is washed and distended with 10 oz. of clear fluid, and the cysto- scope, loaded with a catheter, is introduced. The window is manoeuvred into a position close to the ureter, the catheter is gently inserted into the opening, and pushed gently on for 12 in. Then the other ureter is catheterized if a double-barrelled instrument is being used; or if a single- barrelled cystoscope is being employed it is withdrawn—leaving the first catheter in position—reloaded and reintroduced, and the second ureter catheterized. In direct catheterization of the ureters (Kelly's method), which is only applicable to the female bladder, the urethra is dilated suffi-