INFLAMMATORY DISEASES OF THE TONGUE i77 has free exit from the mouth. Attention should be given to any exciting cause, and mouth-washes sliould be employed. 6. GANGRENE OF THE TONGUE Is a rare complication. It has followed an acute glossitis, the inflam- matory reaction having been so severe that thrombosis has ensued. Syphilis has been responsible for its production in several instances, possibly favoured by the injudicious administration of mercury. Cancrum oris may spread to the tongue, and lead to considerable destruction of the tissues. In one case seen by me, after ligature of both lingual arteries, one half of the tongue then being excised for cancer, the remaining half became gangrenous. Treatment.—The general treatment consists in keeping the mouth as clean as possible, and assisting the separation of the dead material. Frequent washing of the mouth with carbolic or perman- ganate lotions should be enjoined, while occasional applications of chlorate of potash or iodoform powder are of great service. Tlie former is somewhat painful, and the latter must be very sparingly used, and care should be taken that the patient does not swallow the drug. INFLAMMATORY DISEASES CHRONIC In considering the following affections of the tongue we are justified in grouping them under the above headmg, since the pathological findings support their inflammatory origin, and they may, therefore, fittingly be described as the varying expressions and results of a chronic superficial glossitis. In the following descriptions Butlin's classification is adopted :— L Erythema migrans. 2. Dyspeptic tongue. 3. Furrows and wrinkles. 4. Glossodynia exfoliativa. 5. Herpes. 6. Leucoplakia. 7. Black tongue. 1. ERYTHEMA MIGRANS Synonyms. — Wandering rash ; geographical tongue ; superficial excoriation (Miiller). Erythema migrans is a rare affection and appears to be almost entirely confined to the earlier years of childhood, occurring in children of impaired general health and nutrition who are nervous and often subject to skin eruptions. It lias no special sex predilection. m