THE KIDNEY 792. cent, of men. The right kidney is affected in 8 out of every 10 cases. Both kidneys are affected in 5 per cent, of cases. No single cause satisfactorily explains the occurrence of abnormal mobility of the kidney in all cases. The following factors are of importance :— 1. Congenital mobility is rarely observed. 2. Anatomical factors.—The kidneys lie in shallow recesses, one on each side of the vertebral bodies, the paravertebral fossae. Wolkow and Delitzen state that persons with movable kidneys have shallow para- vertebral fossaj which are open at the lower end. In women they are shallower and more open than in men, and on the right side more than on the left. Mansell-Moullin holds that there is a slight rotation of the vertebras to the right in a large number of right-sided people, and this makes the right lumbar recess shallower. The liver does not cause downward displacement of the right kidney. 3. Atrophy of the perirenal fat is found in many cases. 4. Weakness of the abdominal walls.—Glenard states that general visceroptosis always accompanies movable kidney and results from weakness of the abdominal wall. This is disproved by statistics and experience. 5. Injury and fressure.—In 11'4 per cent, of cases there is a distinct history of a blow, severe muscular strain, or other injury in the region of the kidney. The wearing of corsets does not produce movable kidney. 6. Drag of adhesions between kidney and bowel.—Bands of adhesions, probably the result of chronic constipation, pass between the kidney and the colon, and the drag of these is a cause of movable kidney (Arbuthnot Lane). 7. Pathological conditions of the kidney.—Tumours, hydronephrosis, calculus, and other diseases may coexist with movable kidney, and in some cases appear to be a factor in the causation of the mobility. Clinical features.—Mobility of the kidney, even with wide range of movement, may be unaccompanied by symptoms. 1. Symptoms referred to the kidney, (a) Pain and dis- comfort.—There is renal pain of a heavy, aching character, and attacks of acute pain may occur, followed by enlargement and tenderness of the kidney. The pain is initiated and aggravated by movement and relieved by rest; it is increased during the menstrual period. (b) Undue ^nobility.—In slight degrees of mobility the kidney usually moves parallel with the vertebral column, but it may swing round so that the lower pole approaches the bodies of the vertebrae— " cinder-sifting movement " (Morris). In another form the upper end of the kidney falls forward, while the lower end remains in contact with the posterior abdominal wall. In the wider ranges of movement