I028 THE UTERUS Symptoms.—Persistent lisemorrliage and watery discharge are first noticed, but pain is often an early symptom. Fetor occurs rela- tively later than in cervical carcinoma. On examination the uterus may be found moderately enlarged and soft, whilst in many cases the cervix is so patulous that the finger passed through it detects the soft growth above. In other cases, however, the diagnosis can only be established after dilatation of the canal, digital exploration, and removal of a portion of tissue for microscopical examination. Later, diffuse peritoneal and omental metastasis occurs, or the patient succumbs to massive growth in the lumbar glands or multiple nodules in the liver or lungs. In either case, irregular nodules and lumps will be felt through the abdominal wall. Diagnosis.—Corporeal carcinoma is the commonest cause of post-menopausal bleeding. Senile endometritis sometimes gives rise to slight irregular haemorrhages, but the discharge is principally pus. It is, however, to be remembered that this form of endometritis is the common precursor of carcinoma of the corpus. Before the menopause patients are apt to attribute the symptoms to that event; the fatal results of this error have already been mentioned {see p. 1022). The diagnosis may be obscured by the presence of a uterine myoma, but continuous loss is not characteristic of these tumours. All cases of per- sistent haemorrhage at or about the menopause should be immediately investigated, the uterus being explored under an anaesthetic if necessary. Treatment—If there is no evidence of metastatic growth the entire uterus with both appendages should be immediately re- moved. This is best accomplished through an abdominal incision, but in very stout women, with a uterus scarcely or not at all enlarged, the vaginal route may be chosen. The after-results of hysterectomy for corporeal are far better than those for cervical carcinoma. For inoperable cases the treatment is similar to that for inoperable carcinoma of the cervix (p. 1027). CHORION-EPITHELIOMA This rare and interesting growth is derived from the foetal tropho- blast. It usually follows abortion or labour after an interval of but one or two months, but occasionally does not declare itself for a much longer period. It is peculiarly associated with vesicular moles, and all gradations between that condition and pure chorion-epithelioma have been found. Though usually primary in the uterus, it has originated in the tube after tubal'gestation. A number of cases are also on record of primary vaginal growth, elements of the trophoblast having migrated there from the gestation site and initiated the tumour. Its occurrence in teratomas will be referred to later (p. 1074).