CARCINOMA OF THE PROSTATE 921 Cachexia is marked and occurs early. It is not relieved by feeding and by treatment of the symptoms of urinary infection, as in - cases of simple enlargement. Physical signs.—The prostate should be examined per rectum after taking tlie precaution to empty the bladder. It is always con- siderably enlarged, and the surface presents marked irregularities, which are usually hard and nodular. Hard, conical projections can often be felt extending along the vesiculse seminales or along the wall of the pelvis; the glands in the pelvis can frequently be felt to be enlarged and hard. The rectal mucous membrane is not freely movable over the tumour. Examination of the urethra and the bladder by the catheter, sound, or cystoscope is contra-indicated, if the diagnosis can be made by rectal examination, as likely to cause severe ha;morrhage and cystitis. If examination of the urethra is carried out, only soft instruments should be used. The cystoscope is difficult to pass, and gives little information, especially as bleeding rapidly obscures the view. In a few cases the growth resembles a vesical tumour, but a differential diagnosis is at once made on rectal examination. Late in the disease complete retention of ru'ine, rectal obstruction, involvement of the ureters, with subsequent hydronephrosis and pyonephrosis, aneemia, and secondary deposits, occur, whilst hypostatic pneumonia is fre- quently the direct cause of death. Treatment.—In the great majority of cases palliation of the symptoms is the only treatment possible. The pain should be relieved by morphia, antipyrin, hot bottles and hot applications. For the retention of urine, catheterization with soft catheters is permissible if their passage does not cause severe pain and hajmaturia, but if it does so a permanent suprapubic opening should be made. All local treatment should be put o£E as long as possible, as it will only hasten retention of urine, cystitis, and htematuria. The radical treatment of removal is sometimes carried out, under a mistaken diagnosis of chronic enlargement, by the suprapubic route, but rapid recurrence is inevitable, and the danger of death from haemorrhage considerable. Lately, attempts at radical cure have been made by removing the entire prostate, the seminal vesicles, the vasa deferentia, and the trigone of the bladder as far as the entrance of the ureters, but it is too early to speak of the results of this treatment, although patients have been reported as being alive three years after operation. NEUROSES Nervous disturbances of the prostate are of three kinds—hyper- sesthesia of the gland, hypersesthesia of the mucous membrane of the