897 PERIURETHRITIS Excision of strictures.—A single stiictmc of moderate dimen- sions may be resected. The whole thicloiess of the spongy body is removed with the stricture, and the severed ends carefully united. The urine is drained for a fortnight through a suprapubic opening. Satisfactory results have been obtained, but the operation is limited in applicability. PERIURETHRITIS AND PERIURETHRAL SUPPURATION The source of infection is the urethra, and the inflammation takes various forms, such as abscess, masses of fibrous tissue, gangTcnous or phlegmonous inflammation (" extravasation of urine "). Etiology.—The urethra is usually the seat of stricture, but injury during uistrumentation or internal urethrotomy, new growths of the urethra, foreign bodies, calculi, or a retained metal catheter may be the predisposing cause. There is usually a mixed infection of Bacillus coli, streptococcus, and staphylococcus ; rarely one of these is present in pure culture. Anaerobic bacteria are usually found mixed with aerobic bacteria, but occasionally alone. They are especi- ally frequent in phlegmonous periurethritis (" extravasation of urine "). Inflammation spreads either by tlu'ombosis in the corpus spongiosum or by the spread of inflammation along the urethral gland ducts. Periurethral Abscess (Urinary Abscess). The abscess may develop in relation to the penile or bulbous urethra during the course of acute gonorrhoea or chronic m-ethritis. A tender swelling appears on the under-surface of the penis, and by rupture both externally and into the urethra may establish a urinary fistula. Abscess around the bulbous urethra may develop insidiously and. form a hard, tender nodule, or may commence with a rigor and run air acute course with fever, local tenderness and pain, and rapid forma- tion of a swelling. The swelling is limited posteriorly at the middle of the perineum by the fascia of CoUes, but passes forwards under cover of the scrotum. Partial or complete retention of urine is fre- quently present. Treatment.—A penile periurethral abscess in the anterior part of the canal should be opened through the urethra with the help of a wire speculum or a short urethral tube. A perineal periurethral abscess is opened by a free median perineal incision, and the cavity flushed with biniodide solution. All pockets are opened, counter- openings made if necessary, and the cavity freely drained and lightly packed with iodoform gauze. When a narrow stricture and cystitis coexist a median perineal cystotomy with drainage of the bladder should be performed. 3/