HERNIA 644 Strangulated umbilical hernia.—This condition is almost confined to women of the age of 40 to 60, especially those who are markedly obese, of plethoric habit, and frequently the subjects of chronic asthma and broncliitis. For these reasons umbilical strangulation is very dangerous, and its mortality high. Reduction can very rarely be effected owing to the size of the mass, its omental adhesions, the tightness of the constriction, and the numerous lateral sacculi present. The constricting agent is in this case the neck of the sac itself, and this is often of almost cartilaginous consistence. The especially dangerous nature of the strangulation is further due to the following factors :— 1. The depth and extent of the wound necessary for its relief. 2. The jejunum as well as the transverse colon and omentum being at times involved, the shock is proportionately greater than when the lower end of the ileum is in question. 3. The size of the mass to be exposed and returned ; many feet of bowel being frequently involved. 4. The fact that such patients are bad subjects for any kind of operation, more especially those which involve resection, anastomosis, or drainage of the intestine. 5. If jejunostomy is required, rapid emaciation is Likely to result. 6. The amount of handUng necessary to replace these large hernias in an abdomen already full of tensely distended bowel frequently leads to the occurrence of paralytic ileus. Case for case, strangulated umbilical hernia is attended by a worse prognosis than any other form of external strangulation, and therefore admits of less delay in its relief; next to it comes femoral, and lastly inguinal strangulation. TREATMENT OF STRANGULATED HERNIA The only sound and safe method when strangulation of any variety of hernia has been diagnosed is immediate operation. Employment of taxis.—When a case of apparent strangu- lation comes under consideration, the question will arise as to the justifiability of taxis for its reduction. In only a few cases, however, is it possible, and in fewer still is it safe ; it should only be used as a last resource, as where a patient obstinately refuses any operation. If it can ever be said to be justified, it can only be where the trouble is of but a few hours' duration ; in a hernia hitherto easily reducible ; where there is absence of pain and tenderness ; and even then it should be of the gentlest kind, and should neither be prolonged nor repeated. Dangers of forcible taxis.—1. " Reduction en masse " (Figs. 467 474). The following remarks apply especially to inguinal hernia.