898 THE URETHRA Diffuse Phlegmonous Periurethritis (Extravasation OF Urine) This is a virulent, rapidly spreading infection, witli sloughing of the urethra. Stricture is usually present, but is not necessarily narrow, and may even be absent. The condition rarely commences as a periurethral abscess. Usually the onset is sudden, and the symp- toms at once become severe. After a rigor the temperature rises to 102° F., or liigher, and profound toxaemia rapidly develops. The patient is pale, and the skin clammy ; the tongue and mouth are dry, and delirium quickly appears. The urine is passed with diffi- culty and in small quantity. A dull-red, brawny induration appears in the perineum and rapidly increases. The spread is limited by the attachment of CoUes's fascia behind the transverse perineal muscle posteriorly and to the rami of the pubes laterally. The scrotum becomes red and oedematous, the penis swollen and distorted, and the infiltration rapidly mounts on to the pubes and abdominal wall. Crepitation from the formation of gas is sometimes detected. A fatal result from toxaemia is not uncommon, and may occur after operation. Treatment. — Immediate multiple incisions should be made wherever the infection has spread, and washed through several times in the twenty-four hours with hydrogen peroxide or biniodide solu- tion (1 in 2,000). Hot fomentations should be applied, stimulants freely administered, and subcutaneous and rectal saline infusions given. Slougiiing of the urethra occurs, and fistulse form and later require treatment. Chronic Indurative Periurethritis There is a stricture of the bulbous urethra, usually of the irregular cartilaginous type, and large masses of fibrous induration form in the perineum and scrotum. There are usually several urinary fistulse, and the indurated mass frequently contains one or several small abscesses. Calculi may form in the fistulse and behind the stricture, and a malignant growth has been known to develop. Treatment.—Internal urethrotomy should be performed and a catheter tied in as a preliminary to operation on the periurethral induration a week or more later. If the stricture is impassable, external urethrotomy is performed at the time of the perineal operation. A staff is placed in the urethra, and, with the patient in the litho- tomy position, the indurated mass is split down the centre to the corpus spongiosum and each half dissected away, removing fistulse and small abscesses in the substance of the mass. The opening in the urethra is repaired with catgut sutures and a catheter tied in the urethra.