THE UTERUS Very large tumours may press upon tlie vena cava and produce oedema of tlie legs, or may distend the abdomen sufficiently to embarrass respiration. 3. Degeneration symptoms.—One feature alone is common to most degenerated myomas, viz., tenderness supplants the insensi- tiveness of the " normal " tumour. If the degeneration be oedematous, myxomatous, or cystic, the tumour rapidly increases in size. The sudden onset of pain characteristic of red degeneration has already been mentioned. In many forms of degeneration slight fever is manifested. The supervention of carcinoma in the body of a myomatous uterus is characterized by the haemorrhage becoming continuous instead of periodic. Sarcomatous degeneration is accompanied by severe haemorrhage, rapid bossy enlargement of the tumour, ascites, and emaciation. 4. Symptoms due to complications and accidents—In- ■flammation of a myoma is usually caused by infection from the uterine cavity. This very serious complication especially follows labour and abortion, and presents the signs of acute local peritonitis, which later may become generalized. An infected myoma usually undergoes necrosis, and, if submucous, may slough out. Salpingitis is a common complication, and produces its usual symptoms. It is, as a rule, of the chronic type, the tubes being thickened or distended with clear fluid. Occasionally, owing to re- gurgitation of menstrual blood, a double htematosalpinx is present, and especially with cervical myomas. Pyosalpinx is less frequent {see p. 1048). Ovarian cysts so frequently complicate uterine myomas that no wise diagnostician would often pledge himself that the ovaries were undoubtedly sound. Many masses thought to be purely myomatous are found at operation to be partly ovarian, and vice versa. Extrusion of a myoma is commonest with a polypoid submucous tumour, but may follow injury or ulceration of the capsule of a sessile one, and is then a septic process from the beginning. Extrusion pro- duces severe, painful, colicky, uterine contractions and free haemor- rhage, accompanied, if the tumour be infected or sloughing, by fever and foul discharge. (Fig. 605.) Axial rotation of a pedunculated subperitoneal myoma is charac- terized by sudden violent pain recurring at intervals, tenderness and rapid enlargement of the tumour, and the early development of local peritonitis. Occasionally the uterus itself partakes in the torsion. Such cases present severe shock and profuse external bleeding. The supervention of pregnancy varies in its results. A subperitoneal tumour of moderate size permits a normal termination of gestation.