292 THE (ESOPHAGUS an instrument inserted into the funnel-shaped upper extremity. They may be left in situ for several months. A piece of silk fastened to the upper end is brought out of the mouth, and secured to the auricle or cheek. The patient is able to swallow and enjoy nourishment. This procedure is not suitable for strictures in the upper part of the oesophagus, as the tube is apt to irritate the larynx. The disadvantages are that the tubes get very foul, may require to be frequently changed, and sometimes tend to stimulate the spread of an ulcerating growth. Jacobson recommends their employment so long as the patient can swallow sufficient food by this means. In discussing this method of treatment, Symonds summarizes as follows :— (a) In cricoid obstruction the long rubber tube gives good results. (b) In disease of the central portion of the oesophagus the short tube is advised, though if pulmonary symptoms arise the long tube is substituted for it. (c) In disease of the cardiac orifice, gastrostomy is preferable to intubation. Success has recently followed the use of a permanent feeding-tube devised by William Hill and consisting of a malleable silver stilette of small diameter surrounded by a rubber tube. This is passed through the stricture with the aid of the oesophagoscope. It can be used even when the obstruction is at the lowest portion of the oesophagus. The upper end is fixed to the teeth. It is surprising how soon food can be swallowed beside this tube, and its presence is generally well tolerated. 3. Radium has been employed recently in carcinoma of the oeso- phagus, with some hopeful results. A small tube containing radium is passed down by means of the oesophagoscope, and left for some hours within the stricture. In some cases ulceration and fungation of the growth have disappeared, and the lumen has markedly increased so that feeding-tabes can be inserted (Hill, Finzi). 4. The operation of cervical oesophagostomy, whereby an opening is made in the oesophagus in the neck, has little to recommend it. It can only be employed when the growth is at the upper end of the oesophagus. The reasons against it are thus epitomized by Fagge :— (1) The greater difficulty and danger of the operation. (2) The difficulty of making the opening sufficiently below the growth to prevent later involvements. (3) Discomfort from the flow of saliva over the wound, and risk of local infection of the cellular tissues from this source. 5. Treatment by gastrostomy is indicated when intubation has proved unsatisfactory.