345 GASTRIC ULCER: SYMPTOMS symptoms of chronic gastric and chronic duodenal ulcers is their remission. In the former, severe attacks of pain and vomiting, lasting for a few days or weeks, intermit with periods of almost though rarely quite perfect digestive health; whilst in duodenal ulcer the patient may experience months of perfect health before the onset of another attack. Savariaud has stated that 20 per cent, of ulcers are latent; these are frequently on the lesser curvature. But this percentage is far too high; that gastric ulcers are common without the so-called classical symptoms is now well estabUshed, but few are really " latent." The classical symptoms are pain, vomiting, hsematemesis. Pain is the most promment feature, and is rarely absent. It is closely associated with the ingestion of food ; it usually appears within an hour of a meal, there is always a definite latent period, ajid the pain persists until the stomach is emptied naturally or by vomiting. The pain is of a stabbing or burn- ing character, situated in the epigastric region. On account of the frequent multiplicity of the lesions and complications, dogmatic state- ments are impossible regard- ing the relationship of the situation of the pain and tenderness, and the time at which it appears, to the situation of the ulcer. But it can be stated that in ulcers on the posterior surface and lesser curvature the pain is usually to the left of the middle line, and that the nearer the cardiac end of the stomach the lesion is situated the higher in the epigastric region is the site of the pain. This fact was first pomted out by Brinton, and stress has lately been laid on itf by James Mackenzie. In pyloric ulcer the pain tends to appear later, and to be to the right of the middle line. In some cases of chronic ulcer situated on Fig. 375.—Multiple acute gastric ul- cers, one of which has perforated. The stomach has been opened along its greater curvature. The ulcer which has perforated is on the anterior surface, and shows the typical characteristics of an acute ulcer. (London Ifos/tiial Pathological Institute.)