URETHRAL CALCULUS 889 are deposited on raw surfaces in the urethra, especially when stricture is present, or in a para-urethral pocket. Pathology.—Primary urethral calculi are composed of calcium and magnesium phosphate, ammonio-magnesium pliosphate, or calcium carbonate. Secondary calculi have a nucleus of uric acid, calcium oxalate, or other ingre- dients found in renal or vesical calculi. As the calculus grows it is moulded by the shape of the urethra, and the urethra itself becomes dilated. Several faceted calculi may be found. When a urethral calculus projects into the bladder it takes a mushroom or umbrella shape. In the majority of cases one or several strictures coexist, and the calculus lies behind a stricture or between two strictures. Perineal fistulse may be present. A calculus may lie in a pouch communicating with the urethra, and project into the canal. Symptoms. 1. Impaction of a migrating stone—There is frequently a preliminary attack of renal colic, when the stone descends from the kidney. The stone is felt to enter the urethra during mic- turition, and there is sudden arrest of the stream, intense pain, and continuous ineffectual straining, witli the passage of a few drops of blood, followed by complete retention of urine. On passing a metal catheter the membranous urethra is found spasmodically contracted, and the click of a stone is felt in the prostatic urethra. The calculus may be felt from the rectum. Recurrent attacks of difficult micturi- tion or complete retention occur when the stone becomes impacted behind a stricture of the bulbous or penile urethra, and the calculus can be felt on palpating the urethra. 2. Stone lodged in the urethra.—There are pyuria and a urethral discharge, difficult and frequent micturition, discomfort, and a feeble, twisted stream. Urinary fistulje may be present, and there is usually a stricture. The stone is felt on palpation and seen on urethroscopic examination. Treatment.—A migrating calculus of the prostatic urethra is usually pushed back into the bladder on passing a catheter. It should be evacuated with a lithotrity bulb or crushed and removed. If the calculus is not pushed back into the bladder the catheter may be tied in position for a few days ; on its being removed the stone will jirobably be expelled. Small calculi in the penile and bulbous urethra can sometimes be removed with urethral forceps or a snare if no stricture is present. If they lie behind a stricture, external urethrotomy is necessary. A fixed calculus in the prostatic urethra should be removed by median perineal section, and the bladder explored for other stones. When calculi are embedded in para-urethral pockets the wall of the pocket should be carefully destroyed. FOREIGN BODIES A large variety of foreign bodies may be found in the urethrse of erotic individuals, and portions of surgical instruments may be accidentally left