OVARIAN CYSTS: TREATMENT 1077 peritonitis. In most cases a pelvic tumour can be felt, which excludes the hepatic condition. In tuberculous peritonitis, however, a mass may also be felt per vaginam, but in this condition there is usually much more fever than in ruptured cyst. In all cases of doubt the peritoneal cavity should be explored. Many a woman has been tapped repeatedly for an ascites due to an unsus- pected papilliferous cyst. An inflamed cyst simulates acute pyosalpinx, but the mass is from the commencement more circumscribed and defined. Treatment.—All ovarian cysts should be removed as soon as possible, through an abdominal incision. A pedunculated cyst is treated by excision, the pedicle being first clamped. Ligation of the pedicle should be carried out in sections, to minimize the risk of the ligatures slipping. Large unilocular cysts with clear fluid contents should be tapped before removal, but all others should be excised whole for fear of escape into the peritoneum of irritant or infected matter or transplantable tumour cells. Multi- locular cysts cannot be satisfactorily tapped. Adhesions to the cyst wall should be separated as far as possible before tapping if this course be followed. Sessile broad-ligament cysts are to be treated by enucleation from their peritoneal investment. This is often easy, the gap in the broad ligament being subsequently closed with sutures. In other cases only part of the cyst can be so removed ; the remainder should be brought up to the abdominal wound and drained. The excision of a broad-ligament cyst is sometimes facilitated by removal of the uterus. Where the cyst has burrowed deeply its removal may be a very difficult operation. Ovarian cysts are sometimes universally adherent. In many instances the cyst wall can be readily shelled out, but in others this is impossible without serious damage to the intestines and mesentery. In this case the best course is to empty the cyst and then suture up the aperture, leaving the patient to be tapped subsequently as the fluid reaccumulates. Cysts of the ovary or ovarian hilum burrowing into the broad ligament are treated by enucleation, like actual broad-ligament cysts. Malignant cysts should be removed whenever possible ; but great judgment must be exercised, for the bleeding in these cases may be so free that, once started, the operator may find it impossible to go back. The operation of ovariotomy has nowadays a mortality greater than that of simple hysterectomy. This is on account of the large pro- portion of malignant cases dealt with, in which the death-rate is high. Excluding these, the average risk is probably 2 per cent.