EXAMINATION OF THE (ESOPHAGUS 257 though at first decidedly unpleasant to the patient. When the larynx is reached, violent expiratory efforts with a closed glottis are generally excited, often followed by retching as the stomach is entered. How- ever, tolerance is surprisingly soon established by custom. In passing a bougie the surgeon should stand facing the patient. The instrument should be dijDped into a basin of warm water, lubri- cated with oil or vaseline, and curved so as to pass easily over the base of the tongue. The patient is then directed to extend the neck and open the mouth. A gag is unnecessary, and any introduction of fingers or instruments to depress the tongue should be avoided, inasmuch as it only excites retching and additional discomfort. The point of the bougie is now pushed over the dorsum of the tongue and gently on down the posterior pharyngeal wall, past the region of the larynx, where it is generally arrested by spasm of the inferior con- strictor and the narrowness of this part of the oesophagus. With slight gentle pressure forwards, the point then enters and passes down the oesophagus to the site of the obstruction. Any further mani- pulations must now be carried out with gentleness. If the wall of the oesophagus is ulcerated, considerable pain may lie caused by the contact of the bougie. Haemorrhage may occur, and even perforation of the wall has resulted from violent efforts to overcome an obstruction. If the bougie will not readily pass, smaller ones should be tried. Should the obstruction prove impassable, the further methods of examination to be presently described should be employed. If there be a stricture through which a bougie can be made to pass, its extent and diameter can be estimated by means of a bougie with an acorn-shaped extremity (Fig. 346, a). 5. X-ray examination.—This method depends upon the intro- duction of certain substances which are known to be impervious to the X-rays. Sounds containing metallic cores of lead or mercury are passed down the oesophagus and held in position while the X-rays are passed through the thorax and focused on a screen. More fre- quently, in the place of sounds, certain preparations of bismuth or iron are administered by the mouth. Bismuth oxychloride, subnitrate, or oxide is given in the form of a cachet or suppository paste, or in suspension. For this purpose the oxychloride is preferable to the subnitrate. This method of examination is very valuable in the recognition of strictures and pouches of the oesophagus. The patient is made to stand or sit with the arms raised and the hands resting on the top of the head. The thorax is so placed that the rays traverse it in the oblique direction, usually from right to left. By this means the shadows formed by the vertebral column and heart and great vessels are avoided. The rays are focused on a screen r