FIBROMATOSIS OF THE COLON 515 the whole constituting a firm, ill-defined, dif?use mass, which simulates malignant disease or tuberculosis. The treatment consists in opening up the sinuses and removing the infected tissues with the sharp spoon and scissors, but the difficulty of eradicating the whole disease renders this line of treatment unsatis- factory. Equally good results have been claimed for treatment by large doses of potassium iodide or of copper sulphate. Irrigation of the sinuses with a 1 per cent, solution of copper sulphate has proved beneficial (Bevan). Injections of iodipin are also of value. FIBROMATOSIS OF THE COLON Under this name may be described a condition frequently met with in the colon which in its clinical aspects and on naked-eye examination is almost indistinguishable from carcinoma or the hyperplastic form of intestinal tuberculosis. In the majority of cases hitherto reported the nature of the con- dition has only been recognized after the growth had been removed in the belief that it was a malignant tumour, or on post-mortem examination. The microscopic appearances, however, show that the mass is inflammatory in character, and presents none of the signs of malignant disease. It is highly probable that many of the cases which are recorded of malignant disease of the bowel having disappeared after colostomy or short-circuiting operations performed for obstruction were of this nature. Morbid anatomy.—Any part of the colon may be involved, but the condition is most common in the pelvic colon and rectum. The aiJected segment of bowel, varying in length from one to several inches, is converted into a firm, rigid tube. The peritoneal coat is thick, rough and granular, and may show signs of adhesive inflam- mation. Beneath the serous coat is a uniform layer of dense fibro- adipose tissue, sometimes half an inch in thickness. The muscular coat may show some degree of atrophy, or may be luialtered in appearance. More strildng changes are seen in the submucous layer, wliich is greatly thickened by an overgrowth of dense fibrous tissue. This tends to contract, and in so doing drags upon the mucous membrane, which forms a series of irregular folds with deep recesses between them ; these are sometimes spoken of as " false diverticula."' The mucous surface may thus assume a festooned or cauh flower- like appearance, simulating that of multiple adenomas or papillomas. Ulcers form in the recesses of the thickened mucosa and burrow under the surface, making long, undermined tracts with overhanging flaps of mucous membrane. The ulceration may extend through all the