341 GASTRIC ULCER: ETIOLOGY recorded in children and in old people, yet the majority occur between the ages of 20 and 45. Among the London Hospital cases of perforated gastric ulcer the youngest patient was 3 years, the oldest was 81 ; but the condition has been recorded in a centenarian, and in infants of 45 hours, 2 months, and 1 year respectively. Mayo Robson states that in women 75 per cent, of the cases are found before the age of 20, whilst in men only 25 per cent, occur so early ; these figures agree with those at the London Hospital. Perforation occurs later in men than in women ; for example, in 92 consecutive cases of perforated gastric ulcer in women at the London Hospital, 55 occurred between the ages 15-20, whilst of 44 in men only 6 occurred during this period, 14 between 25 and 35, and 13 between 35 and 45. In women the greatest number of chronic cases are treated between the ages 25-35 (43 out of 107). in men between 35-45 (42 out of 100). It is evident, therefore, that chronic gastric ulcer is most often met with in adult life, in men later than in women. Immediate etiology.—In discussing tlie causation of gastric ulcer, gastric erosions and acute and chronic ulcers must be considered together. Certain observations, experimental and clinical, stand out pro- minently. It lias been found possible to produce gastric ulcers experi- mentally by methods which will lead to ulceration in other parts of the body, as the result of injury to the mucous membrane, injury to nerves, embolism and thrombosis, and local infection : but as a rule the ulcers so produced heal rapidly. Bolton has shown that gastric ulcers are due to the action of the gastric juice upon devitalized gastric mucous membrane. By injecting into guinea-pigs gastrotoxic serum prepared by injecting the gastric cells of the guinea-pig into the rabbit, areas of necrosis and punched- out ulcers were produced. The formation of these could be prevented by neutralizing the gastric juice with 20 c.c. of a 1 per cent, solution of bicarbonate of soda. Hyperacidity of the gastric juice alone would not produce ulcers, but any excess of hydrochloric acid increased the lesion produced by the injection of gastrotoxic serum. The injection of hepatotoxin, enterotoxin, and lisemolysin also produced necrotic patches in the mucous membrane of the stomach indistinguishable from those produced by gastrotoxin. A chronic ulcer could not be produced either by repeated injections of gastrotoxin, by increasing the percentage of hydrochloric acid, or by feeding on infected food ; but motor insufhciency of the stomach delayed healing for at least twice the normal time, and when the ulcer healed the mucous membrane was of a lower type than normal. Turck has been able to produce gastric and duodenal ulcers in dogs by feeding them for prolonged periods on food containing cultures of the colon bacillus. When the feeding was stopped the ulcers healed. There are certain pathological and clinical data bearing on the subject.