785 HEMATURIA Treatment by vaccines gives varying results. In some cases the bacteria in the urine rapidly diminish in quantity and in a few cases disappear. Vaccines should be autogenous. In Bacillus coh infections small doses of vaccine up to 10 or 15 million bacteria are less efficacious than higher doses of from 30 to 50 or even 100 million, which should be given at intervals of a week. Where the bacteriuria is superimposed on some pre-existing disease of the urinary tract, the latter should be suitably treated. HiEMATURIA An appearance resembUng blood is given to the urine in hsemoglobinuria, and after the ingestion of some drugs, such as senna, rhubarb, sulphonal, etc. The final test for hsematuria is the microscope. The urine in hsemo- globinuria has a peculiar purple colour, it contains no clots, and shows no blo(jd corpuscles, even after centrifugalizing. Localization of the source of haematuria.—Blood from an area anterior to the compressor urethra escapes from the meatus inde- pendently of micturition ; that from any part behind this muscle is mixed with the urine and is only discharged with it. Hoematuria may be the solitary symptom, or it may be accompanied by localizing symptoms. Severe pain in one kidney and ureteric colic will localize the haemorrhage to this kidney, renal pelvis, or ureter; but dull acliing in one kidney may be present in vesical disease such as papilloma and malignant growth. Pain at the end of the penis on micturition points to an affection of the base of the bladder, or of the prostatic urethra; while pain at the base of the sacrum, in the rectum, or in the perineum suggests the prostate. Frequent micturition localizes the point of htemorrhage to the prostatic urethra or bladder. Copious bleeding from the kidney may, however, cause vesical irritation and frequent micturition. The combination of obstruction and hfematuria is most frequently duo to prostatic or urethral disease, but may result from a papilloma of the bladder near the internal meatus, or with a long pedicle, or even from tem- porary impaction of a clot in the urethra. The longer the blood remains in contact with the urine, the more likely is it to be discoloured. The higher the source of blood in the urinary tract, the better the admixture with the urine. Blood in a highly acid urine is brownish, and in an alkaline urine bright red. A brownish or smoky appearance of the urine indicates that the blood is small in c£uantity, well mixed with the urine, and the reaction acid. Such bleeding is usually renal in origin, and only forms a sediment after several hours. In coffee-coloured urine the source of bleeding is frequently tlie kidney or kidney pelvis, but may be the bladder or the prostate, especially if there is urethral obstruction. A purple tinge denotes venous bleeding, which may be derived from any part of the urinary tract. If the urine has a delicate pink colour, the blood usually comes from the bladder or the prostatic urethra. Bright-red blood indicates copious bleeding from an arterial source, and may arise in any part of the urinary tract, most frequently in the bladder or prostate. Blood ajipearing at the beginning of micturition (initial hematuria) usually comes from the prostatic uretlira. Terminal hajmaturia (aj^pearing at the end of micturition) is derived from the prostatic urethra or the bladder. No inference can be di-awn as to the source of blood mixed with the whole of the urine (total hsematuria).