695 TUBERCULOUS PROCTITIS throat, and it is said that the lesions in the perineum have preceded those in the more common situations. It is also stated that diphtheria has followed an operation in this region. The signs, diagnosis, and treatment arc similar to those of the disease in the usual situations. Tuberculosis is not uncommon, and is usually secondary to pulmonary disease. It is stated, however, that the lesion may be primary, the bacilli entering with the food. Imperfect gastric digestion may permit the passage of undestroyed bacilli, which may lodge in the anal sinuses and there cause single or multiple tuberculous ulcers. The ulcer is small and shows no tendency to spread widely over the surface of the bowel, though it is very apt to perforate to the perirectal tissues. Usually the first indication of the disease is a slowly forming ischio-rectal abscess, which differs from the acute abscess already described in its slower development and less severe symptoms. The abscess tends to burrow in the fossa, eventually making its way to the surface and discharging through one or more openings which show the undermined edges and bluish discoloration of the surrounding skin, and the jjrominent pale granulations characteristic of tuberculous sinuses. Clinically the tuberculous fistula may generally be differentiated by the following points : The buttocks are thin and the ischio-rectal fossa feebly developed ; the perineal hair is abundant, long and silky ; the abscess preceding the fistula forms insidiously, the external orifice is more or less characteristic of a tuberculous sinus, the discharge is thin and watery, and the internal opening, is often easily felt and seen, being sometimes so large as to admit the finger-tip. It can only be certainly diagnosed by finding the tubercle bacillus in the discharge, or by the microscopy of the granulation tissue lining the sinus. Por treatment the subjects of tuberculous fistula may be divided into three classes : (a) Fistula associated witli advanced jndmonary tttbercidosis.—As little should be done as is consistent with relief of symptoms. If the abscess has not burst externally, but a rectal sinus is present, consider- able pain may be caused by the passage of faeces into and the accumu- lation of pus in the cavity. Under local anaesthesia external drainage should be provided. No active interference should be considered if free drainage is already established. (b) Fistula associated tvith clironic tuberculosis.—In the majority of these cases an attempt may be made to cure the fistula, and with considerable prospect of success. (c) Fistula not associated with pulmonary tuberculosis—In these cases there is a liability to the later development of pulmonary tuber- culosis. Every endeavour should be made to cure the fistula. All the tracks should be slit up and their walls scraped, or in some cases