GASTRIC ULCER: DIAGNOSIS - 347 tion, but examination of the stomach contents after a test meal may give valuabk^ help (see p. 387). Complications.—The foiiowing are the important compli- cations : (1) Perforation, acute and chronic (p. 353); (2) hsematemcsis ; (3) pyloric stenosis (see p. 327) ; (4) hour-glass stomach [see p. 321) ; (5) perigastritis (p. 358) ; (6) gastric fistula, internal and external (see p. 401) ; (7) carcinoma of stomach (see p. 378). Diagnosis.—If a patient presents the symptoms of epigastric pain originating a short time after food, relieved by vomiting, and especially if he has hrt'matemesis, he is suffering from a definite lesion of the mucous membrane of the stomach, in the form of either an erosion or an ulcer. It must, however, be remembered that, as shown by clinical observations and by the experiments of Bolton, lesions of the mucous membrane of the stomach occur in many diseases, and may present all the symptoms of ulcer. It should also be borne in mind that although the alimentary tract is divided for convenience of description into many parts, it is a whole, and that interference with the functions of any one section may cause trouble in the others. When the symptoms occur in young women, considerable doubt should exist as to whether we are dealing with a case of true gastric ulcer. Young ana?mic women often have pain after food, and vomit, with occasional ha;'matemesis, yet their symptoms are certainly not in the majority of cases due to an ulcer, using the term in its usual signifrcance. There is a group in which ha'matemesis is a prominent symp- tom, called by Sir Bertrand Dawson "' hsemorrhagic gastralgia," identical with that described by Hale White under the term " gastros- taxis." These cases are not necessarily associated with anaemia, and although uncommon after 40, and most frecjuently met with in young women, may occur at any age and in the male sex. In some examined at operation and post mortem no ulcer has been found. But in many cases erosions " have been present, seen during life, but escaping observation post mortem unless the stomach is examined with a lens. Ha;matemesis may be the first symptom (see p. 369). Apart from these cases in which pain, vomiting, and hsematemesis occur, there are others in which the symptoms are atypical, but which frequently prove to be due to chronic gastric ulcer. These diagnostic difficulties most often occur in women, but are not rmknown in men. I have explored 11 such cases, in all of which symptoms had persisted for over three years. All had undergone systematic medi- cal treatment. All were women ; 4 had had haematemesis, all pain after food was relieved by vomiting. All were operated upon as cases of clironic gastric ulcer, although in 2 only did the operative findings