MYOMA : MORBID ANATOMY 1031 originate de novo after this epoch. Their cause is unknown, but is probably related in some way to sterility, since they are rare in women who have borne children early in life. On the other hand, their presence is in varying degree a bar to conception. Morbid anatomy—Myomas occur in three main sites—(1) the uterine body, (2) the cervix, and (3) the broad ligament. They are, however, rarely solitary, so that the various forms are often combined. 1. Corporeal myomas.—It is customary to divide these myomas into three groups, according to whether they arise in the midst of the musculature of the uterine wall [interstitial myomas), or under its mucosal or peritoneal surfaces respectively [submucous and sub- peritoneal myomas). An interstitial myoma of any size bulges both inwards and out- wards. The surrounding uterine musculature is much hypertro- phied, so that the organ, quite apart from the tumour, is much larger than normal. The cavity is correspondingly enlarged. (Fig. .596.) Submucous myomas bulge on the mucosal surface only. The uterus is uniformly enlarged over them and its cavity is much in- creased. All submucous myomas Fig. 597.—Large subperitoneal pe- are at first sessile, but small tu- dunculated myoma, growing from mours often become polypoid. the posterior wall of the uterus. Subperitoneal myomas are also at first sessile, but as they grow they tend to become pedun- culated, so that a very large tumour is frequently attached to the uterus by quite a narrow stalk. The uterus is not enlarged by a sub- peritoneal myoma, but, inasmuch as it may form the peduncle of a large tumour, its vascularity may be much increased. (Fig. 597.) 2. Cervical myomas.—About G per cent, of all uterine myomas grow in the cervix. These tumours, when large and growing inter- stitially or under the mucous membrane, cause a very characteristic elevation of the uterine body on the top of them. (Fig. 598.) The cervical canal is immensely elongated, and the broad ligaments and bladder are undermined and stretched. A cervical myoma develop- ing on the front of the cervix (Fig. 599) burrows under the bladder and