516 THE INTESTINES coats of the bowel and lead to perforation. In some cases, the mucous membrane is unaltered in appearance, and no false diverticula are present. The lumen of the bowel is usually considerably narrowed, some- times to such an extent as to give rise to symptoms of obstruction. On microscopical examination, the wall of the bowel is infiltrated with chronic inflammatory tissue, and there is an overgrowth of the mucous glands with aggregations of lymphoid cells between them. The epithelial cells of the glands may show proliferation, but they do not extend beyond their basement membranes, and have none of the appearances of carcinoma. Etiology.—These changes resemble those met with in other organs as a result of chronic irritative conditions, and in all probability are due to infection talcing place through some lesion of the mucosa— for example, an abrasion caused by a foreign body, a small ulcer, or the lodgment of a fsecal concretion in an acquired diverticulum, or in one of the deeper recesses of the mucosa. Cases are recorded in which the infection appeared to originate in other organs, such as the uterus and Fallopian tubes, with which the colon had formed adhesions. Clinical features.—This condition is most frequently found in patients over 40 years of age, but it occurs also in younger subjects. The history of the illness is very like that of malignant disease of the colon. There is generally habitual constipation, with periodic attacks of diarrhoea, usually induced by the taking of a strong purgative, the motions often containing blood and mucus. The patient complains of persistent abdominal pain, and there is a progressive failure of health. When the disease extends into the rectum, a digital examina- tion reveals a soft condition of the mucous membrane, which has been compared to thick velvet or moss, and considerable narrowing of the lumen. With the sigmoidoscope the excessive rugosity and thickening of the mucosa can be seen. On examination, the pelvic colon is felt to stand out as a firm, sausage-shaped swelling, wliicli is tender on pressure. A positive diagnosis is seldom possible without an exploratory operation. Treatment.—The only satisfactory treatment is to remove the affected segment of bowel. If there are symptoms of obstruction, or if the patient is not in a condition for such an operation, colostomy should be performed to empty the bowel, and the major operation undertaken at a later date. When the mass is considered irremov- able, short-circuiting should be performed if it is practicable. In a considerable number of cases, these palliative operations have been followed by diminution or even disappearance of the swelling.