TUMOURS OF THE SMALL INTESTINE 525 1 See Vol. I., p. 379. - See Vol. I., p. 550. Innocent Tumours Of tlie innocent tumours met with, perhaps the most common are adenomas, which arise in Lieberkiihn's folHcles and form pedunculated growths projecting into the lumen of the bowel. They may be solitary, or may be found scattered throughout the whole length of the intestine. They show less tendency to become mahgnant than similar tumours situated in the colon. Fibromas and lipomas usually arise in the submucosa, and, becoming pedunculated, project into the bowel. They are almost always met with in the lower part of the ileum. ^ Myomas originate in the muscular coat, and also tend to become pedunculated. Angiomas are so rare that their occurrence has been denied. Innocent tumours of the small intestine seldom give rise to trouble, unless they increase to such a size as to obstruct the lumen of the gut, or by dragging upon the wall of the bowel induce an intussusception. In either case, the symptoms are those of intestinal obstruction, and the presence of the tumour is only discovered after opening the abdomen. Malignant Tumours Malignant tumours are much less common in the small intestine than in the colon. Carcinoma.-—Not more than .5 per cent, of carcinomas of the bowel affect the small intestine, and of these the great majority are found in the lower part of the ileum. The tumour is almost always of the columnar-celled variety, and tends to grow round the bowel, gradually narrowing the lumen. As the contents of the small intestine are fluid, the constriction of the bowel may progress till tlie lumen is reduced to the size of a crow-quill before signs of obstruction develop. The exposed surface of the growth may ulcerate, and the changes characteristic of gradually increasing obstruction are evident in the bowel above and below the tumour. Secondary deposits are occasion- ally found in other parts of the bowel, but these seldom give rise to obstruction. Clinical features.—The symptoms of cancer of the small intestine are less characteristic than those of cancer of the colon. Vomiting and pain are more severe and persistent, and the pain often fol- lows the talcing of food. The distended coils are centrally placed, and tend to assume a " ladder pattern,"' and strong, rapid peristaltic waves may be seen passing along them from time to time. Unless, however, a palpable sweUing can be recognized, it is seldom possible to affirm more than that some form of stenosis is present.