555 APPENDIGECTOMY the abdominal wall, but Battle's lias this advantage over McBurney's, namely, that it can be extended upwards and downwards if the exigen- cies of any particular case require a larger abdominal opening, whereas the additional room which can be obtained in McBurney's incision by firm retraction is very small. Since it is never possible to be sure beforehand whether the identification and separation of the appendix will be easy or difiicult. Battle's incision is the more generally useful. Whichever abdominal incision is adopted, the first care of the sur- geon on opening the peritoneum is to ascertain the position of the appendix. As a rule, the csecum first comes into view, and then it is an easy matter to find the appendix by following downwards the anterior muscle-band of the csecum. Any adhesions which may be present are next carefully separated, and the appendix is brought out of the wound and isolated from the peritoneal cavity with strips of gauze. The mesoappendix having been ligatured and divided, the little process is ready for amputation. Innumerable details of tech- nique have been devised, most of which are perfectly satisfactory. Probably the two methods most frequently adopted in this country are Barker's " cufi " method and Kocher's " clamp " method. In the former the peritoneum is divided about a quarter of an inch from the base of the appendix, and turned back towards the caecum. The rest of the appendix is ligatured and cut away, the stump being touched with a drop of pure carbolic acid. The little cufE of peritoneum is then used to cover in the stump. In the latter method a strong crush- ing clamp is applied to the base of the appendix close to the caecum. This instrument divides the inner coats, which retract in either direc- tion, leaving a flat band of crushed peritoneum which can be divided without opening the lumen of the appendix at all. This band is liga- tured and divided, and the tiny stump is invaginated into the caecal wall with a single purse-string suture. When the appendix is inflamed and swollen, the clamp method is unsatisfactory, as the instrument is often found to shear the appendix across. RARE DISEASES OF THE APPENDIX Diseases of the aj^pendix other than those due to pyogenetic bac- teria are rare, and still more rarely do they cause symptoms inde- pendently of secondary infection. It is usually a superadded acute inflammation which directs attention to the appendix, and, as a rule, the tumour or other rare condition is discovered accidentally when the appendi.x is removed. TUMOURS Although very rare, primary appendicular tumours are probably sometimes overlooked, owing to their small size and freedom from