683 ANAL FISSURE the stretcLing due to defsecation and by tlie activity of the external sphincter muscle. A fissure is usually, though not always, single ; multiple fissures suggest syphilis, but this is not invariable. A fissure is somewhat pear-shaped or triangular in form, broader below than above, situated between the normal rugae of the anal orifice, and of varying length and depth. Often the upper extremity is at the lower margin of, or even overlies, the internal spliincter muscle, and the lower extremity is at the lower margin of the external sphincter muscle. At first it is quite superficial, but later its base may be formed by the muscles. In a minority of cases there is an oedematous tag of skin, the so-called " sentinel pile," at the lower end of the fissure and partly obscuring it. This may occasionally be an anal valve, torn down during defsecation, but more often is one of the normal rugae, cedematous tlu'ough infection from the fissure. Fissure may rarely result from partial detachment during defseca- tion of a polypus originating low in the rectum, or from laceration during tlie passage of a foreign body. It may also follow direct infec- tion due to imperfect cleansing of the crevices between the circum- anal rugae. Symptoms.—Pain of a characteristic and often pathognomonic type is the one symptom. It occurs during defaecation, and lasts for a variable time after. It is often most intense, incapacitating the patient for an hour or more. It is of a tearing character, and radiates from the anus to the perineum, thighs, and back. Its severity causes voluntary abstention from defsecation, with consequences disastrous to the fissure. Sometimes pain is not so severe, but passes off as soon as the bowels are relieved. The degree of pain appears to vary with the depth of the fissure. The skin of the anal canal is richly supplied with sensory nerves, some of wliich are probably exposed, as points of exquisite tenderness may be found by passing a probe over the surface of the fissure. The passage of faeces over the raw, sensitive surface is responsible for the pain during defaecation, and the spasm of the sphincter muscle for its persistence. Hamorrhage during defsecation may occur ; this is usually a mere drop, but occasionally is more extensive. A little pus is secreted from the fissure, and may cause pruritus ani (p. 727). The spasmodic contractions of the sphincter muscle during defsecation may render the motions somewhat flattened or tapering in shape. The examination must be conducted with all gentleness. On separating the circumanal folds a fissure will be readily seen. A digital examination is usually necessary to determine the presence or absence of coexisting disease. Treatment.—Palliative measures should first be tried, and will often greatly relieve a recent and superficial fissure. Constipation