366 THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM which absolute relief of symptoms occurred, but by demonstration at a second operation performed for some other condition. In one patient upon whom I operated the ulcer was demonstrated as healed during the course of an operation undertaken for another condition three years later. At the operation I had found " a large indurated mass on the anterior surface of the first part of the duodenum adherent to the liver." The surgeon who performed the second operation wrote: " The duodenum was quite free from induration and was loosely adherent to the liver. There was a greyish-white scar on its anterior surface f in. from pylorus, which was, however, quite soft and no thicker than the neighbouring gut. The anastomosis was quite perfect, with the mesocolon merely adherent to the suture line." In another patient I opened the abdomen four years later for another condition, and found that the ulcer had healed. Similar cases have been recorded by Moynihan. But death has occurred from haemorrhage or perforation after a successful gastro-jejunostomy had been performed, and Moynihan has recorded a case in which, on opening the abdomen three years later for recurrence of symptoms, two recent ulcers were found close to the large scar of the old one. For these reasons the ulcer should be infolded if it is situated on the anterior surface; if on the posterior, the duodenum should be obliterated by infolding the anterior wall. The after-treatment should be similar to that carried out in chronic gastric ulcer. HsBmorrhage must be looked upon as a serious symptom, and operation carried out as soon as the patient can stand it, usually within forty-eight hours. It will rarely be justifiable to operate during the course of the bleeding, but if the patient has had a severe haemorrhage, and the bleeding recurs while he is absolutely at rest, operation without loss of time is indicated. The ulcer should be infolded, the gastro-duodenal artery ligatured, and gastro- jejunostomy done. Perforation of Duodenal Ulcer It has been stated that perforation is a relatively more frequent accident in duodenal than in gastric ulcer, but this is impossible of direct proof, for we have no means of knowing the number of patients suffering from this lesion. The old figures (Chvostek, 42 per cent. ; Collin, 69 per cent.) certainly over-state the frequency, and were compiled before our present laiowledge of the condition. It is more common than in chronic gastric ulcer, for chronic duodenal ulcer is most often situated on the anterior and upper wall of the duodenum. That it is a fatal termination and not infrequently occurs while the patient is under treatment is certain. The perforation is more common on the anterior wall of the first part of the duodenum—90 per cent, of the cases. (Fig. 380.)