LINGUAL CARCINOMA: OPERATION Ol- factory and the wound heals well, if care has been taken in preparing the mouth. Many surgeons are of opinion that, having in mind the risks and dangers of the operation mentioned above, tlie needs of the case are adequately met by removing the tongue first by means of an intra- buccal operation, the glands being dissected out by a routine dissection in ten days' time. Such a procedure may pass as satisfactory in early cases, or if it is the intention of the surgeori to perform a palliative operation. In most cases, however, it must be regarded as incomplete. If the operation must be performed in two stages, especially in ad- vanced cases, it would seem better to dissect the triangles of the neck, ligating the external carotid on one or both sides, and then in a week or so to remove the tongue very freely by some intrabuccal method. There is still another detail for consideration, and that is whether the glands should be removed from both sides of the neck. As before stated, the tendency in modern surgery is to progress to more radical methods, but at the same time these methods should be checlced by pathological and clinical observations. It will be seen from the description of the lymphatics of the tongue (p. 16.5) that certain vessels near the middle line communicate with the glands on both sides. The same occurs in the case of the lymph- vessels at the tip. In cancers situated near the middle line or tip of the tongue, both triangles, therefore, should be attacked. Cancer of the posterior third of the tongue also leads to rapid bilateral glandular infection, and in these cases the glands must be removed from both sides as a routine. Out of 27 cases of lingual cancer carefully examined post mortem by Dr. Kettle, pathologist to the Cancer Hospital, the glands were affected on both sides of the neck in 11. Out of 6 cases of cancer in the floor of the mouth, both sides of the neck were attacked in 5. Obviously, therefore, in cancer situated in the floor of the mouth that is presumably near the middle line, the glands on both sides must be removed. With regard to other cases of lingual cancer, when but a small part of the side of the tongue is affected it will be sufficient to remove the glands on the affected side only, but they must, of course, he removed even if the disease is met with at an early stage, and although they may show no obvious infection. In more extensive cases both sides must be operated upon. In clearing away the glands in the anterior triangles of the neck it must be remembered that, in order efficiently to remove those embedded in the substance of the submaxillary salivary gland, tliis latter must be sacrificed. It is also well to remember that at least one of this submaxillary group is actually on the face at the anterior border of the masseter.