DUODENAL ULCER: PERFORATION 369 kidney poucli should be carefully sponged out and the abdomen closed. If necessary the right renal pouch is to be drained, and, in addition, if there has been extensive peritoneal soiling, a tube may be placed suprapubically. The after-treatment follows the lines laid down for cases of perforated gastric ulcer (p. 358). Prognosis.—At the present time, owing chiefly to the less acute onset of many cases of perforation, the death-rate is higher than in similar perforations of the stomach. Mayo Robson collected 155 cases, with a mortality of 66 per cent.; during 1899-1908, 4'2 cases were operated upon at the London Hospital, with a death-rate of 80 per cent.; up to December, 1911, I hatl operated upon 20 cases, with 9 recoveries. A. B. Mitchell of Belfast has jaublished a series of 16 consecutive opera- tions for perforation, without a single death. Of these cases, 11 were operated upon within 12 hours of perforation, 6 within 5 hours, 1 each at 17|, 18, 25, 36, and 49 hours after perforation. In my own cases, successful results attended operations done 4, 5, 7, 12, 14, 17, 20, and 21 liours after perforation, whilst death followed those performed after 6 days, 5 days, 4 days, 3 days, 70 hours, 65 hours, 40 hours, 30 hours, 25 hours, 12 hours, and 6 hours respectively. In this last case I found fat necrosis and did not search for the duodenal perforation. The death-rate in the first 29 cases recorded in 1899 (Pagenstecher) was nearly 86 per cent., and the mortality has been gradually falling. As knowledge of the early symptoms which accompany perforation becomes widely spread, earlier operation will render treatment more successful, and recognition of chronic duodenal ulcer will lead to the prevention of perforation by appropriate treatment. HiEMATEMESIS Hsematemesis occurs in many diseases, in the majority of which there is a definite lesion of the stomach, but it may arise secondarily in cirrhosis of the liver or in Banti's disease. In cirrhosis of the liver the bleeding usually takes place from a ruptured oesophageal varix. As shown by Preble, in over two-thirds of the cases the bleeding was the first symptom calling attention to the disease. In Banti's disease the history of anfcmia and the presence of the enlarged spleen will lead to the correct diagnosis. Cases of hsematemesis fall into three groups : (1) Those in which the bleeding is the first obvious symptom of disease. (2) Hfema- temesis occurring after operation. (3) Hsematemesis occurring in patients presenting the symptoms of chronic gastric or duodenal ulcer. 1. Bleeding without Premonitory Symptoms In tliis group the patients are usually young anaemic women. The haemorrhage is the first symptom in 75 per cent, of the cases; in the remainder it may have been preceded for a few days or weeks b}^ y