578 THE PERITONEUM gland. The coexistence of phthisis or other tuberculous focus, unless of an advanced character, is no contra-indication to operation. Other operative measures are called for in certain cases, as for the relief of intestinal obstruction, or the opening of localized infected abscesses. When fistulse are present, no surgical procedure is likely to be of any benefit. Prognosis.—The immediate result of operation in the ascitic form, and in dealing with encysted collections of exudate, is strikingly beneficial, whilst the operative risk is very small. Borsch's series of collected cases showed an operation mortahty of 5"6 per cent., 70 per cent, of immediate cures, and li'S per cent, of cures of two or more years' duration. //. TUMOURS The peritoneum is often involved secondarily by malignant growths, but is rarely the seat of a primary tumour. It is said to be sometimes the seat of a primary endothelioma and of colloid carcinoma. Other neoplasms, described as peritoneal tumours, such as lipomas, are in reality connective-tissue tumours of the retroperitoneal tissues. Carcinoma and sarcoma- of the gastro-intestinal tract, uterus, ovaries, and biliary passages often involve the peritoneum, the affec- tion taking the form of nodules of growth of various sizes every- where studding the serous membrane, and involving in particular the omentum, which tends to become rolled up into cake-like masses, especially in the upper part of the abdomen. The gTowth may consist of hard nodules, but is sometimes of gelatinous consistency. Effusion of fluid into the peritoneal cavity is the rule, the fluid being clear or straw-coloured and often blood-stained. The symptoms of such peritoneal involvement by malignant growth are usually overshadowed by those of the primary tumour. Sometimes, however, the primary growth is small and so situated as to produce no symptoms, in which case those of the peritoneal involvement will predominate, ifhe existence of ascites, together with the presence of nodules or large masses palpable on abdominal examination, in a patient of or beyond middle age, would point to the possibility of intraperitoneal carcinomatosis. Similar cases of sarcomatosis occur in children and young people, and such a condition may be very difficult to distinguish from tuberculous peritonitis {see above). The treatment can only be symptomatic. HYDATID CYSTS These cysts sometimes arise primarily in the omentum. Multiple hydatid cysts occasionally result from rupture into the peritoneal cavity of a primary cyst in the liver or elsewhere.