GASTRIC CARCINOMA: TREATMENT 391 The death-rate of total gastrectomy appears to be about 40 per cent.; in 27 cases collected by Paterson it was 36 per cent. The average duration of life in those in which recurrence took place was nineteen months ; 17 per cent, were free from symptoms five years after operation ; 1 was well at eight, and 1 at seven years after operation. Gastro-jejunostomy should be performed for the relief of symptoms when pyloric obstruction is present. The death-rate in these cases is considerably higher than when the operation is performed for simple diseases. Poncet, Delore and Leriche have recorded 87 cases with 33 per cent, death-rate; Kindl, 21 per cent. ; Moynilian, 35 cases, 14 percent, doath-rate; Sherren, 27 cases, 5 deaths. With regard to the duration of life : this cannot be predicted. The average appears to be about six months, but the operation must be done only in the cases stated. The longest duration in my cases was two years, with absolute comfort for twenty-two months ; another lived fifteen months, with comfort for thirteen ; a third nine months, with comfort for eight; whilst in the others death took place within six months; but the relief afforded by the operation in all made it worth doing. Unless the growth is causing pyloric obstruction, reUef of symptoms is not obtained. The radical treatment of carcinoma of the cardiac end of the stomach is at present in the experimental stage. The researches of Sauerbruch, Willy Meyer, Janeway and Green, Meltzer and Auer, Brauer, and others have raised hope that it may be possible to extend operative interference to this portion of the stomach. Three cases have been recorded in which operation was carried out, the growth being removed and oesophago-gastrostomy done (Wendel, Wiener, Janeway and Green) : death occurred from secondary hemorrhage in the first case, in the second from subphrenic abscess twelve days after operation ; and the third died fifty-four hours later with an empyema. Gastrostomy shotdd be performed when it becomes impossible to take food. The immediate mortahty is not high, and an interval of comfort of from tliree to six months, in some cases as long as eighteen, is given. Jejunostomy is an operation rarely advisable for carcinoma of the stomach, though it may be performed to obtain relief from pain and vomiting. Patients seldom survive operation longer than a few weeks. The immediate mortality in 127 cases of jejunostomy collected by Billon was 29 per cent., and the majority of patients succumbed under two months ; only one Uvcd for a year.