971 PHIMOSIS Complications.—Tlie complications of pliimosis are— (a) Difficulty and pain on passing urine. {b) Retention of urine, with its sequelte on the bladder, ureters, and Iddneys. (c) Incontinence of urine. (d) Retention of secretion or formation of calculi under the prepuce. (e) Inflammatory conditions. Balano-posthitis. (/) Hernia or prolapsus ani, due to straining. ig) Sexual excitement. Masturbation and its effects. (h) Difficulties in coitus. {i) Paraphimosis. (j) Malignant disease. An important associated condition wliich should always be looked for, and, if found, treated when circumcision is performed, is a small (pin-hole) urinary meatus. If this condition is overlooked, difficulty of micturition may continue after the operation. Treatment.—Cases in which the prepuce in a child cannot be freely retracted owing to slight adhesions between the prepuce and the glans should be treated by separating the adhesions with a probe, retracting the prepuce, and smearing the glans with vaseline. Retrac tion should then be practised daily till the prepuce retracts easily and without pain. These cases are the exception ; all other cases of congenital phimosis should be treated by circumcision unless surgical interference is contra-indicated by some disease, e.g. haemophilia. In doing the operation care must be taken to remove a sufficiency of both layers of the prepuce, otherwise the condition will not be remedied ; but at the same time too much should not be removed. When the wound has healed, the corona glandis should be covered. The operation in adults can be readily performed under local anaesthesia. Acquired Phimosis Acquired phimosis may be transitory or permanent, and the former may pass into the latter. Transitory acquired phimosis is due to inflammatory conditions of the prepuce or glans, such as soft sores, hard chancres, balano-postliitis of gonorrhoea, septic sores, etc. In these conditions the inflammatory oedema of the prepuce prevents retraction. The treatment is cleanliness and relief of the primary affection. The patient should sit in hot baths, syringe with hot weak antiseptic lotion under the prepuce, and endeavour to retract it so that it may be thoroughly cleaned. If it is found impossible to secure freedom from foul secretion, the prepuce should without delay be freely slit up dorsally as far as the corona in, order to avoid sloughing and to establish an exact diagnosis.