RENAL CALCULUS 833 are important etiological factors. Calculous disease is common in India both in Europeans and in natives. In Europe calculus is spe- cially prevalent in Central Russia, Hungary, Holland, Italy, Northern (Germany, Western France, and the eastern counties of England. Structure and chemical composition.—The calculus consists of a central nucleus surrounded by laminae of varying com- position. The nucleus generally consists of urate of ammonia in infants, of uric acid in adults, and of oxalate of lime after the age of 40. In rare cases a fragment of blood clot forms the nucleus, and the ova of bilharzia have been found in countries where billiarziosis is rife. Fre- quently there are alternate layers of uric acid and oxalate of lime or triple phosphates or calcium carbonate. The following substances enter into the composition of renal calculi, viz. uric acid, ammonium and sodium urate, calcium oxalate, calcium phosphate, calcium carbonate, ammonium and magnesium phosphate, cystin, xanthin, indigo, blood. Calculi are rarely composed of a single salt. Phosphatic deposits take place where the urine becomes alkaline. Oxalate of lime is much the most frequent component, 44 per cent., and uric acid next, 22 per cent. (Morris). Oxalate-of-lime calculi are usually single, very hard, dark-brown or black, with a nodulated surface, or covered with tine or coarse clear crystalline spicules, and are laminated on section. Sometimes they form small multiple seed-like bodies. Uric-acid calculi are single or multiple, hard, smooth, sometimes highly polished, and yellow or red-brown in colour. Ammonium and sodium-urate calculi occur in children, and are small, soft, friable, and pale fawn in colour. Calcium-phosphate calculi are greyish-white, hard, with irre- gular and sometimes crystalline surface, and are found in neutral or slightly alkaline urine. Calculi of mixed phosphates (fusible calculus) are whitish-grey, non-laminated, mortar-like friable masses, which grow rapidly in alkaline urine. Cystin calculi are yellow, smooth, and soft, assume a greenish waxy appearance after removal, and have a radiating structure. Xanthin calculi form smooth, hard, reddish or cinnamon- coloured stones. Indigo calculi are blue-black with a grey, polished surface, and leave a blue mark on white paper. Blood or fibrin calculi form faceted masses of putty-like consistence, and have a brown colour and laminated structure. The majority of calculi removed by operation are single, but multiple calculi are not uncommon. (Fig. 545.) Small calculi may form in a pouch in the pelvis or a calyx, and pass down the ureter at intervals for manv years. Larger calculi are rounded or oval, and may be freely movable in the pelvis or firmly fixed. Large calculi are branched, and the branches fill the calyces. (Plate 104.) Calculi of 1| lb. (Shield) and 3 lb. (Le Dentu) have been found. A calculus has very rarely been found embedded in the substance of the kidney. 3 h