1075 OVARIAN CYSTS: SYMPTOxMS the pedicle. As a result, the cyst wall and the pedicle distal to the twist become oedematous and swell. This occasions a further twisting, with increased oedema ; and so on, until the blood-flow through the pedicle may be entirely arrested. The cyst becomes purple or black from venous congestion, and its contents are rapidly augmented by the effusion of serum and blood into the cavity. Occasionally large quantities of blood may be thus poured out. The necrotic wall induces peritonitis around it, with the formation of adhesions through which the circulation may be re-established. Spontaneous recovery some- times takes place, the necrotic cyst becoming sequestered by universal adhesions. More commonly, however, general peritonitis is set up, to which the patient would succumb if untreated. A twisted cyst rapidly increases in size and becomes very tense and tender. It usually crosses the middle line to the opposite side, becomes markedly unilateral, and pulls the uterus in the same direction by the tension of the pedicle. The pain is at first spasmodic, the exacer- bations coinciding with the successive twists ; later on, as peritonitis is set up, the distress becomes continuous, and vomiting and flatulent distension appear. Rupture.—Spontaneous rupture is most commonly seen with papuliferous cysts. The abdomen rapidly fills up with ascitic fluid, and some tenderness and pain may be present, owing to the secondary peritoneal implantations ; these may be felt, on deep palpation, as irregular masses. The patient wastes, and often shows slight con- tinuous fever. Cyst-adenomas rarely rupture, owing to the early formation of adhesions. The escape of the mucous contents sets up a subacute peritonitis with pain and tenderness. Ruptured colloidal cysts present the same clinical picture as ruptured papilliferous cysts, but the dis- tension and general deterioration are slower. The bursting of an ovarian blood cyst or profuse hsemorrhage from a corpus hsemor- rhagicum almost exactly simulates a ruptured tubal gestation, but a history of preceding amenorrhcea is absent. Thin-walled follicular cysts may rupture spontaneously, or in the course of examination. The fluid is non-irritant and is soon absorbed, but the cyst re-forms after a while. Very rarely the sudden effusion of blood into the cavity of a twisted cyst has caused tlie wall to rupture. Malignant degeneration.—Malignant ovarian cysts give rise to a fixed mass, ascites, and rapid emaciation. Later, metastatic masses are felt in the omentum, parietes, and liver. These secondary growths, especially those in the omentum, are often the first to attract attention. They have the bossy feel of a number of rounded nodules partially fused together, and when omental may be very movable.