FACE, LIPS, AND PALATE 132 blending laterally and below with the mucous membrane enveloping the premaxilla. The nose is flattened, and the antero-posterior length of its columella is shortened in proportion to the degree of projection of the premaxilla. The teeth of the premaxilla are liable to many variations from the normal; they are generally irregular in position and obliquely directed ; in the majority of cases only two, the central incisors, are present, but occasionally there are four or more. Site of the cleft.—In true median hare-hp the cleft lies between the two globular processes, outgrowths of the mesial nasal process, while in lateral hare-lip it is placed between the globular process on the inner side and the maxillary process on the outer side —not between the globular process and the lateral nasal process, as suggested by Albrecht, for it is now well known that the latter process takes no part in the formation of the lip. The much-discussed position, of the cleft in the alveolus is described under Cleft Palate (p. 146). Treatment of Haee-Lip Obviously the only method of treating such an unsightly defect is by an operative procedure, having for its object the closure of the cleft and the restoration of the red margin of the lip. The only detail on which opinions have differed is the age at which the operation should be performed. This depends to a certain extent (1) uj^on the size and nature of the defect and the condition of the child, and (2) upon the skill of the operator, the rapidity with which he works, and his familiarity with the method he pro- poses to employ. No surgeon should approach the task in a light- hearted manner, for, no matter how slight the defect, its accurate closure requires a certain degree of skill only to be acquired by practice, as the tyro will readily confess when he sees the result of his work, six months or a year later. Speaking generally, the best time for operation is during the second month, for by then the infant' has become accustomed to its nurse, is familiar with its surroundings, sleeps for the greater part of the day, and, in the event of the size of the cleft or the condition of the mother having rendered bottle or spoon feeding necessary, should be free from gastro-intestinal dis- turbances. But if the child is undeveloped or badly nourished, the operation must be postponed until the patient's condition has materi- ally improved, for the mere remedy of tlie defect at an early age is unlikely to have a marked effect upon its general health. In slight cases the child can generally suckle without difficulty, so that if the mother can nurse it properly it is wiser to defer the operation until the time for weaning arrives; for, if the lip is sutured at an earlier date, lactation is necessarily interfered with for at least a week, and may have to be discontinued altogether. When the