197 LINGUAL DERMOIDS In a case under my care, a French boy complained of tliis ofEensive discharge, but at first notliing could be detected on examination of the mouth. Closer inspection, however, showed a few fine hairs pro- jecting from the side of a fistula in the position of the submaxillary papilla. A probe passed into a deep cavity let out a quantity of very offensive sebaceous matter ; an attempt was made to destroy the cyst wall, and this failing, the cyst was completely dissected out after division of the mandible. Treatment.—Dermoid cysts must be excised, either through the open mouth or, if large, by an incision below the jaw (RegnoU's incision, p. 226). As a rule they shell out easily by blunt dissection, though they are usually adherent to the hyoid bone at one point. Sometimes great difficulties from surrounding inflammation are encountered, rendering a larpigotomy or a tracheotomy necessary ; while, if the cyst has ruptured, the dissection of the sinus is a matter of the greatest trouble, and may, as in the case recorded above, neces- sitate division of the jaw at the symphysis. The whole cyst wall or fistulous track must be removed, or the operation will be a failure. The cavity should be plugged with iodoform gauze, kept clean, and allowed to heal up from the bottom. Lateral dermoids are treated in the same way. Tubulo-Dermoids, Thyeo-Dermoids, or Thyro-Glossal Dermoids These growths are found at the back of the tongue, in the region of the foramen caecum, or deeply embedded in the posterior part of the tongue substance. When situated near the surface they are more often solid than when placed more deeply. As in the case of the thyroid gland itself we meet with adenomas in which there is no cystic change, and with others in which the whole tumour under- goes a cystic transformation, so in the thyroid tumour of the tongue it is a mere chance which variety will occur. These cystic tumours are generally regarded as retention-cysts of the thyro-glossal duct, and as such are infinitely commoner below than above the hyoid bone ; in actual fact, however, we are hardly justified in putting this interpretation on their origin, since there is no evidence to show that the thyro-glossal duct was ever a functional canal for the purpose of conveying secretion into the mouth ; it is rather the track of the developing thyroid, and would be better called the thyro-glossal tract, along the course of which aberrant thyroid particles may develop into cysts or tumours. The thyro-glossal tract, indicated in Fig. 338 by a thick black line, passes from the foramen caecum, through the base of the tongue, to the hyoid bone. It usually runs behind, but occasionally in front of this bone, and