HERNIA 634 Operative Treatment of Perineal Hernia The majority of perineal hernias should be attacked by the com- bined abdomino-perineal route. They are extremely difficult to deal Avith, and so variable in their character that no definite rule can be laid down for their operative treatment. The difficulties to be over- come are the reposition and retention in place of the pelvic organs, especially the bladder, which at times occupies the sac ; and the depth of the hernial ring both from within and from without. The Trendelenburg position is, of course, essential, and there are no sound structures to assist in closing the gap. My spider-web filigree (Fig. 465) may be used, being implanted either beneath the peritoneum from within, or beneath the levator ani muscle from without, as may be found easiest. In either case it should lie between the peritoneum and the muscle, the sac having been invaginated and tied off within the abdomen. In women this may necessitate the separation of the broad hgament from the pelvic floor, but that is of little consequence, since it can easily be sutured in place again. Where the hernia is found to contain the ovary, broad ligament, uterus, and bladder, it will be advisable to complete the operation by performing a ventro- fixation of the uterus, and possibly removal of the ovary and tube of the affected side at the same time. The greatest care must be taken to ascertain the presence or absence of the bladder in these cases, since any injury to it in so deep a wound is difficult to repair. On one occasion a pudendal hernia appearing in the labium majus was mistaken for a vaginal polypus, and, being ligatured and removed,, was found to contain a length of intestine and a mass of omentum (Graser, see Bibliography). POSTOPERATIVE COMPLICATIONS OF HERNIA These fortimately are few. The following have been noted :— 1. Chronic pain and hyperaesthesia of the cicatrix. —This is probably due to the inclusion of some of the cutaneous nerves in the hgatures and sutures. If severe and genuine (many of these patients are malingerers or neurotic youths), the cicatrix may be undercut with a tenotomy knife where the condition is one of h}'3)er8esthesia ; but where chronic pain is complained of it is better to open up the old wound down to the aponeurosis, or even to the conjoined tendon, and divide high up any nerves found in the course of dissection. Where pain is complained of only in wet or cold weather, the condition is not to be benefited by operation. 2. Formation of a haematoma.—This may occur in the course of the inguinal canal or in the scrotum. It is not imcommon after extensive stripping away of large adherent sacs in scrotal hernias.