GALL-STONE DISEASE 743 the temperature is seldom maintained so liigli as in cliolecystitis. In appendicitis the j)ain is lower, vomiting is more likely to be promi- nent, and breathing is not interfered with. It may be impossible to differentiate the very acute cases from acute pancreatitis, intestinal obstruction, or pneumonia. Treatment.—The milder cases may completely recover on rest, limitation of diet, and the exhibition of alkalis. Persistent tenderness with fever, or obvious enlargement of the gall-bladder, necessitates surgical interference, which in the very severe cases must be prompt. The operation will usually consist in drainage of the gall-bladder. Cholecystectomy adds to the operative risk, and fails to provide drainage of the deeper ducts, and is therefore not generally advisable. Cholangitis Cholangitis is nearly always associated with tlie presence of gall- stones, and it may persist even after the calculi have been passed. The ducts ar(> full of bile-stained pus. Clinical features.—The condition may be preceded by the symptoms of gall-stones, and may follow directly on an attack, or be ushered in by a rigor, with perhaps uneasiness about the hepatic region ; the patient feels ill and generally looks poisoned, and is more or less drowsy. Chills may be repeated irregularly, while the temjjerature between them is either a little raised or subnormal. Jaundice is usual, but not invariable, and, if well developed, probably depends on some causative obstruction. The liver is enlarged and tender, and the spleen may be palpable. The disease is subject to remissions. Treatment.—Operation for calculi is unwise during an attack of chohmgitis. Free purgation, abundance of fluid by the mouth, infusion of saline, and the exhibition of urotropin in 10-grain doses are the most useful therapeutic measures ; opium should be studiously avoided. If improvement does not follow, the ducts must be drained, usually througli the gall-bladder. (LVLL-STONE DISEASE Pathology; etiology.—Experimental research has proved that, though mild intlammation due to attenuated infections is a potent etiological factor, a virulent infection is not followed by calculus formation. When gall-stones cause symptoms, organisms, especially bacilli of the colon group, are generally found, not only in the bile, but in the calculi themselves. Their presence leads to a mild catarrh of the mucous membrane, and, therefore, to an increased production of cholesterin. According to Aschoff, mere stagnation of bile in the gall-bladder,