3i8 THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM The ultimate condition of tliese children remains for further investigation. Maylard, Robson, and others have recorded cases of chronic gastric disease in young adults due to congenital narrowness of the pylorus, with dilatation of the stomach, and cases have come under my notice in which symptoms of dilatation of the stomach in early adult life were associated with a history of difficulty in feeding in infancy. The relation of these cases to the disease imder discussion has yet to be fully worked out. Treatment.—Opinions differ as to the advisability of surgical treatment at any stage of the disease. All, however, are agreed that lavage and appropriate feeding should be adopted in the early stages. Robert Hutchison considers that " operation is never in any sense justified in these cases," and Carpenter states that medical treatment has proved " eminently satisfactory." On the other hand, Fisk holds that all cases should be submitted to surgical treatment after a week or ten days' careful feeding. It has been stated by Harold Stiles that the cases which get well are cases of pyloric spasm without con- genital hypertrophy, and that the treatment of the true stenosis is surgical. In one patient imder my observation in whom all the symptoms— propulsive vomiting, visible peristalsis, and the presence of a tumour— were those of congenital stenosis, recovery followed lavage continued for over three months, and now at the age of 5 the boy is in good health. The stomach should be washed out daily, and small feeds of peptonized milk given. Gastric lavage is easily carried out through a No. 12 rubber catheter attached to a glass funnel. If vomiting is severe, normal safine cnemata of 2 to 3 oz. should be given two or three times a day. Lavage with suitable feeding must be continued often for three, four, or five months. At first there is no gain in weight and the child may appear to be going downhill. Hutchison states that this should not prevent continuance of lavage. This treatment must be persisted in until the necessity for surgical intervention arises or the stomach is repeatedly found free from curds. If, in spite of lavage, weight is steadily lost and the quantity of curd returned shows no diminution, operation should be undertaken. Since surgical treatment was first advocated by Schwyzer, in 1896, various operations have been performed, among others pyloroplasty, pylorodiosis (pyloric dilatation), and gastro-enterostomy. If operation be indicated, some form of pyloroplasty is undoubtedly the ideal procedure. The death-rate of all methods of operative treatment is high—taken as a whole, certainly not less than 40 per cent. A considerable number of the cases of pylorodiosis have relapsed. Nicoll's operation, which has hitherto given the best results with