466 THE INTESTINES the condition to any exciting cause. The first symptom is intense abdominal pain, which is usually so severe as to double the patient up, or cause him to writhe in agony on the floor. When the small intestine is implicated, the pain is continuous, and is referred to the region of the umbilicus. The higher up in the intestine the strangu- lation occurs, the tighter the constriction, and the greater the extent of bowel implicated the more severe is the pain. When the obstruc- tion is in the more fixed parts of the bowel, such as the duodeno- jejunal junction, the ileo-csecal jimction, or the colon, the pain is usually correctly located in the affected segment. After a time, when the nerves of the strangulated segment become exhausted, or when perforation occurs and the tension in the loop is relieved by the escape of gas and fluid, tliis initial pain may be temporarily alleviated. Sooner or later, however, severe griping pain is experienced from the excessive peristaltic efforts of the bowel to force its contents along the tube. As the muscular coats become exhausted, this pain to some extent abates, and the relief may be contributed to by the poison- ing of the nerve mechanism with toxins derived from the stagnating contents. The paralysis thus induced may prevent the bowel from emptying itself even if the obstruction is removed. Up to tliis point, the pain is not increased, and may even be reUeved, by pressure, and there is no marked rigidity of the abdominal muscles. Unless the obstruction is relieved, organisms pass through the wall of the gut and set up peritonitis, and this is associated with a characteristic stabbing pain, which is increased by pressure, and attended by rigidity of the abdominal muscles. In cases of extreme toxaemia, the abdominal muscles may relax and the tenderness dis- appear—symptoms of grave omen. Vomiting almost always commences within a few hours of the onset of the pain. This early vomiting is a reflex symptom due to interference with the sympathetic nervous system, and is, as a rule, proportionate to the severity of the pain. It is attended with nausea, retching, and eructation, and affords no relief to the patient's suffer- ing. It occurs independently of the taking of food, and is continuous and persistent. The vomited matter consists at first of the stomach contents ; later, it contains a large admixture of bile, which appears to be excreted in excessive quantities, and is permitted to enter the stomach by the relaxation of the pylorus induced by the alkalinity of the bile (Pavlov). As time goes on, the character of the vomiting changes, and assumes the characteristic regurgitant or gushing type, in which mouthfuls of dark-brown or yellowish fluid are brought up without retching or effort. The fluid has a highly offensive odour resembUng that of faeces, but is not really fsecal in character. The