896 THE URETHRA Internal urethrotomy.—This consists in cutting the stricture by means of a specially guarded knife (urethrotome) introduced along the urethra. A filiform guide is passed through the stricture, the fine grooved staff is screwed on to it and follows it. A triangular knife is run along the groove and cuts the stricture. A catheter is tied in the urethra for forty-eight hours. Large metal instruments are passed at increasing intervals after the operation. Results.—Of 1,018 patients treated for stricture by internal urethrotomy at St. Peter's Hospital, 8 died (0'78 per cent.). The causes of death were: (1) exacerbation of old-standing pyelonephritis (50 per cent.); (2) anuria and uraemia ; (3) septicaemia ; (4) haemorrhage. Internal urethrotomy usually affords complete relief if followed by the passage of instruments at long intervals. If after-dilatation is neglected, recontraction of the stricture is common. External urethrotomy with a guide (Syme's opera- tion).—The stricture is dilated to a No. 4 English gauge and a Syme's staff introduced. The patient is placed in the lithotomy position, and an incision made on the staff just above its shoulder and carried back through the stricture to the membranous urethra. A gorget is introduced and guides a perineal drainage-tube into the bladder. External urethrotomy without a guide.—The following operations are undertaken when the surgeon has failed to pass an instrument through the stricture :—- (a) Wheelhouse's operation.—A Wheelhouse staff is passed down to the stricture and an incision made upon it about 1 in. from the end. The staff is hooked in the upper end of the wound, the mucous mem- brane picked up on each side, and careful search made for the opening. When this is found a probe is passed through the stricture, which is then slit up and the operation finished as in Syme's method. (b) If Wheelhouse's operation fails, the incision is carried back and exposes the dilated urethra behind the stricture ; a probe is passed through the stricture from behind forwards, and the scar tissue slit on this. (c) Cock's o-peration was originally introduced for cases of acute retention in impassable stricture. The tip of the left forefinger is placed in the rectum on the apex of the prostate, and a knife entered in the middle line of the perineum ^ in. in front of the anus and pushed straight for tliis point. The dilated urethra behind the stricture is opened. (d) Suprapubic cystotomy and retrograde catheterization followed by perineal section has little to recommend it over the perineal dis- section (b). Results of external urethrotomy.—The mortality was 8 per cent, in 100 cases at St. Peter's Hospital. Gregory found a mortality of 8'8 per cent, in 992 cases. Bougies should be passed at regular intervals after the operation.