623 DOUBLE-FILIGREE OPERATION When a filigree operative treatment, of doing away entirely with the truss, and of establishing a method of treatment wliich should honestly deserve the term ' radical cure,' that I devised, in 1905, the method which is known as the ' double-filigree method,' and wliich has been used since that time with the best results. The principles which underhe it are, simply, the removal of the sac, the approximation of the conjoined tendon to Poupart's ligament, and the rendering abso- lutely unstretchable of the whole operative cicatrix by the introduction of a scaffolding of silver wire known as ' filigree, of silver wire such as will presently be described is in- troduced into the tissues of the inguinal canal, pre- suming that it is perfectly aseptic, the first effect is that of local irritation of the parts in contact with it; this results in the ex- udation of lymph, which rapidly organizes about the fihgree, and in a very short time new vessels and young fibrous tissue are produced, and grow around, among, and between the wires of the filigree to such an extent that ere long a solid plaque is formed that once and for all converts the inguinal canal into a sound, resistant area which will neither stretch nor bulge, the muscles, peritoneum, and aponeurosis being welded together by the fihgree, which acts much as the backbone of a sole does upon the tissues which it supports, with this difference, that the ends of the fihgree wires, being in the form of a loop, are capable of acting as retaining sutures, whereas the bones of the sole only act as a scaffolding for support." Method of constructing filigrees.—These are made in two sections (Fig. 460), a pubic (a) and an iliac (b). The former measures 1| in. in length (the normal length of the inguinal canal), | in. in width at the narrow end, and 1| in. at the wide end. All filigrees being constructed on the principle of eight loops to the inch, there will be thirteen loops on either side of the pubic section. The iliac section is constructed in such a way that its inner third corresponds in shape and size to the outer two-thirds of the pubic section. Its outer end nuist meet the requirements of the case, being trapezoid, square, or, what is more usual, oblong, and of a total length Fig. 460.—Pubic (a) and iliac (b) sections of author's filigree for inguinal hernia, (c) Midrib.