MAMMARY CANCER: DISSEMINATION 63; ✓ - Epigastric invasion of the abdomen.—According to the researches of Stiles, the lower and inner margin of the breast overlies the sixth costal cartilage—that is to say, this part of the mammary circum- ference is distant only about an inch from the ejaigastric angle. In the epigastric angle the deep fascia is separated from the subperitoneal fat and the peritoneum only by a single layer of fibrous tissue, the linea alba. As soon as fascial permeation has spread an inch beyond the margin of the breast, cancer cells are thus brought into close proximity with the peritoneal cavity, and they have only to infiltrate the linea alba and pass through the loose sub- serous fat before reaching it. This mode of ab- dominal invasion, which , I have traced microscop- ically in all its stages, may be called epigastric invasion. Reaching the peritoneum by this route, the cancer cells first im- plant themselves upon the convex upper surface of the liver, close to the falciform ligament. Other cancer cells may fall into the pelvis and give rise to deposits filling the pouch of Douglas, or to secondary ovarian growths. Epigastric in- vasion probably occurs sooner or later in at least one case in three. It is especially likely to super- vene early in cancers affecting the lower and inner quadrant. It may be suspected when epigastric pain and tenderness are present, even apart from hepatic enlargement and jaundice, and may be diagnosed with confidence if subcutaneous nodules are present in the epigastric region. Other modes of invasion of the abdomen.—The retroperitoneal abdominal organs, especially the liver, kidneys, and suprarenals, or the lumbar spine may be attacked by the downward extension of permeation through the diaphragm from pleural deposits. This may be called retroperitoneal invasion of the abdomen. In rare cases Fig. 274.—A permeated lymphatic in longi- tudinal section. The endothelium of the lymphatic is visible outside the mass of cancer cells which fills it. Above it is seen a normal blood-vessel. Infiltration of the tissues is absent. X 150. Cf. Fig. 27.S. {Frojii I/anciity's " Cauci Opcialk'c Tt >■ of the Bi cast and its uitnwnt.'')