844 THE URETER At the upper part of tlie ureter the symptoms are rarely distinguish- able from those of calculus in the renal pelvis. When the stone lies just outside or in the wall of the bladder, symptoms of bladder irritation become prominent, and there is pain along the urethra to the end of the penis. Genital symptoms also appear, such as painful emissions, hsemospermia, and testicular pain, and there may be constant pain in the rectum, aggravated by defsecation. Hsematuria may be severe, and usually follows renal colic. During an attack of colic there may be oliguria or temporary anuria, and under certain conditions calculous anuria becomes established. Pus, bacteria, crystals, and tube casts may be present, and phos- phaturia is sometimes observed. The complications that may occur are calculous anuria, infection (usually hasmatogenous), and chronic obstruction. As a result of infection, pyelonephritis or pyonephrosis may develop, and as a result of obstruction, hydronephrosis. Examination —There may be tenderness over the impacted calculus ; if the stone is at the lower end of the ureter it may be felt per rectum or per vaginam. On cystoscopy the ureteric orifice is unaltered, or shows surrounding congestion and thick and gaping lips ; sometimes it is puckered and surrounded by heaped-up veLvety mucous membrane or by oe-dematous bullae. Occasionally the trigone is hidden with ceclematous mucous membrane. A stone impacted in the intra- mural portion of the ureter is seen as a red swelling outside and above the ureteric orifice ; its brown or white tip may project from the opening. The efflux may be rapid and forceful, and may be tinged with blood or cloudy with pus. If a stone be impacted low down, the movements of the orifice are often slow, and the efflux is discharged feebly. The ureter may be sounded by means of a ureteral catheter or a solid bougie. In female subjects Kelly has used wax-tipped bougies which show scratches on the wax when a calculus is present. Radiography is the most reliable method of diagnosis. Stones as small as a split pea, or even smaller, can be demonstrated. Very minute calculi may be overlooked, and pure uric-acid calculi, which are rare, do not throw a shadow. The diagnosis of small stone shadows may be confused by the shadows of the vertebral transverse processes, the sacrum, ischial spine, and the horizontal ramus of the pubes, or by calcified lymph-glands, calcified appendices epiploicse, opaque bodies in the appendix, atheromatous arteries, phlebolitlis, calcareous deposits in old scars or chronic inflammatory tissue or on ligatures, calcareous deposits in the seminal vesicles, intestinal contents (Blaud's pills, bismuth-covered faeces, etc.), or enteroliths. A differential diagnosis