154 FACE, LIPS, AND PALATE muco-periosteum in the case of the hard palate, and naucous mem- brane and submucous tissue in the case of the soft palate, it is essen- tial that it be performed before the milk teeth erupt, or the size of the flaps will be seriously curtailed. Though Lane advises the per- formance of the operation within a few days of birth, I have found by experience that from six weeks to three months is the most suitable age. In spite of the apparent severity of the procedure, haemorrhage is inappreciable in amount and there is little if any shock. The cosmetic result, even with extensive clefts, is as good as can be desired. There are very few clefts that cannot be closed at one operation, and, what is more important still, the closure is permanent. There is only one place where gaping is liable to occur, and that is at the junction of the hard and soft palates, but the aperture is usually so small that it can easily be closed a few weeks later by a simple plastic operation. So excellent is the result of this operation, as far as it concerns the closure of the cleft, that in a series of upwards of forty cases,, operated upon between six weeks and five months of age, I am able to record only two real failures, and in both of these the malnutrition of the infant was the predisposing factor. General principles of the operation.—The following description is quoted from Arbuthnot Lane's article on the Treatment of Cleft Palate in the Lancet of January 4th, 1908 :— " Practically the flap formation employed to close in the hard and soft palates resolves itself into two methods. If the soft parts overlying the edges of the cleft are thick and vascular, a flap is cut from the mucous mem- brane, submucous tissue, and periosteum of one side, having its attachment or base along the free margin of the cleft. The palatine vascular supply (the great or anterior palatine artery) is divided while the flap is being reflected inwards, and it depends for its blood supply on vessels entering its attached margin. The mucous membrane, submucous tissue, and periosteum are raised from the opposing margin of the cleft by an elevator, an incision being made along the length of the edge of the cleft. The reflected flap, with its scanty supply of blood derived from small vessels in its attached margin, is then placed beneath the elevated flap, the blood supply of which is ample, and it is fixed in position by a double row of sutures. In this way two extensive raw surfaces well supplied with blood and uninfluenced by any tension whatever are retained in accurate apposi- tion. If, on the other hand, the cleft is too broad to admit of its safe and perfect closure in this manner, one flap, comprising all the mucous membrane, submucous tissue, and periosteum on one side, is raised, except at the point of entry of the posterior palatine vessels, while the soft parts on the opposite side are raised in a flap from which the posterior palatine supply has been excluded, and which turns on a base formed by the margin of the cleft. Here we have a mobile, well-vascularized flap, which can be thrown as a bridge in any direction and can be superimposed on the flap of the opposite side, the closure being necessarily rendered ccmplete by flaps from the edges of a hare-lip. ... As time goes on, the damage done to the temporary teeth by the separation of the superjacent mucous membrane becomes