THE TONGUE 232- 3. If in these advanced cases a two-stage operation is decided upon,, the glands should be attacked first, the external carotid or its branches should be tied, and the tongue should be excised later. 4. In all advanced cases, and in those specially mentioned above,. the glands on the side opposite to the disease should be removed subsequently. Results. Mortality.—Whitehead reports 101 cases with only S operative deaths. Butlin gives two tables, 11 out of 98 in the first series, 9 out of 99 in the second ; the mortality in the second series, would be lower but for the severe procedures practised in advanced cases. Recurrence has been the rule, the successful cases being 28. in the first series, 32 in the second. These are better figures than most stirgeons can quote. If our results are to improve, we must operate- early, and even more extensively than has been the custom in the past- Some of the procedures described are still in the experimental stage, and very careful observations will be required to decide whether the simpler and less dangerous method of Whitehead is to be pre- ferred, in spite of its incompleteness, or whether, by improvements in operative technique, we can so lower the mortality of the extensive and scientific modern operations as to make them more generally applicable. Palliative treatment—For the unfortunate patients who seek surgical advice when the growth has extended too far for radical treatment, little can be done beyond an attempt to relieve the more distressing symptoms—pain, salivation, and fetor. How far a surgeon is justified in removing a fungating cancer merely for the relief of the- local condition must be left to his discretion, and the prospects of the case must be clearly explained to the patient. Pain can be mitigated by local applications of cocaine and mor- phia, and the lingual nerve may be divided—a measure which is said to check the salivation. Ligature of the lingual arteries has little effect. For the fetor no application is better than iodoform, but the odour of this drug is so disagreeable to some patients that carbolic acid, per-* oxide, thymol, or creosote may be used instead. Atropin, ^on-g^, gr.,. combined with morphia, may be given liberally to ease the final stages- of one of the most distressing diseases to which man is subject. Radium treatment.—The emanations of radium contain cer- tain rays, u, ft, y, which have a powerful action on the tissues of the body, the 7 rays being very potent in restraining cell-activity, and so are of value in the treatment of cancer, nsevi, etc. Eadium should never be employed by anyone unfatniliar with its application and effects, but in suitable cases it is of decided assistance to the surgeon. As in the case of ntevi elsewhere, its action is prompt and