984 THE FEMALE GENITAL TRACT By victor BONNEY, M.S., M.D., B.Sc.Lond., F.R.C.S.Eng. History.—Note should be taken of the patient's age, her symptoms and their duration, the dates of any pregnancies, the frequency and duration of the menses and the date of the last one. If pain be present, its position and its relation to posture and to the menstrual period should be ascertained. Examination in the consulting-room is best conducted with the patient lying half on her side and half on her back, but with the shoulders more horizontal than the hips, so that the trunk is some- what twisted at the waist. This position allows the examiner to apply his weight through his left hand on the patient's abdomen, and materially facilitates bimanual examination. Vaginal examina- tion should be made with one finger, as two may cause pain, and is assisted by turning the patient during its performance, first into the semi-prone and then into the semi-supine position. By this manoeuvre the quadrants of the pelvis are successively rendered more accessible. In bimanual examination, palpation must be chiefly conducted by the hand on the abdomen, the finger in the vagina being held stationary on the cervix or vaginal vault. " Gravity " displacements like prolapse or retroversion should be investigated with the patient standing erect. Rectal examination is often useful, especially in virgins. The tyro must be careful not to mistake the projection of the vaginal cervix for a tumour in front of the rectum. The speculum.—An expert can distinguish almost all diseases of the vagina and vaginal cervix by touch alone, and therefore can frequently spare his patient the discomfort of examination by speculum, Fergusson's speculum is easy to introduce, but shuts up the lips of a lacerated cervix, and fails to demonstrate the condition of the cervical canal. Sims's speculum in a narrow vagina may fail to show the cervix well. The hinged bivalve speculum is better for consulting- room use. The uterine sound.—This instrument is much less employed than formerly. The direction of the uterus can be estimated by