THE KIDNEY 820 3. Hypernephroma.—These tumours in some respects resemble the cortex of the suprarenal gland in structure, and Grawitz showed that they take origin in small aberrant nodules of suprarenal tissue found in the cortex of the kidney beneath the capsule. Stoerk has recently disputed their suprarenal origin, and looks upon them as papillomatous in structure. More recently, Wilson and Willis have shown that they arise from the Wolffian body. The growths are most frequently found under the capsule and in the upper pole of the kidney, the right being more frequently affected than the left, and male subjects more often than female. They are very rarely bilateral, and are the most common form of renal growth. The growth may become active at any age. It is surrormded by a firm fibrous capsule, and its substance is broken up by fibrous bands. The presence of a large quantity of fat in the cells gives the growth a characteristic yellow-red colour. Patches of necrosis and haemorrhages are common. Microscopically there is a network of capillary vessels, and set directly upon these, in one or several rows, are large polyhedral cells with clear protoplasm containing fat droplets. (Fig. 543.) 4. Mixed tumours—These tumours usually arise during the first four years of life. There is a basis of immature connective tissue, the cells being round, oval, or spindle-shaped. In this are found embryonic striped muscle fibres, also non-striped muscle fibres, car- tilaginous nodules, fatty and elastic tissue, and epithelial tubules. When striped muscle fibres are abundant the growth is termed a " rhabdo-myo-sarcoma " ; when the epithelial elements are numerous the name " embryonic adeno-sarcoma " is used. These growths arise from the tissues of the sinus of the kidney and distend the organ (Bland-Sutton). Extension and metastasis.—^New growths of the kidney .spread along the renal veins to the vena cava, and extend to the peri- renal tissues, suprarenal gland, lymph-glands, along the aorta and vena cava, renal pelvis, and ureter. The most frequent seats of metas- tatic deposit in renal growths are the lungs, liver, lymph-glands, bones, and rarely the second kidney, the pleura, omentum, suprarenal gland, and brain. Concomitant disease of the kidney, such as movable kidney, tuberculosis of the kidney, or calculus, occurs, but has no etiological value. Symptoms.—The cardinal symptoms are htematuria and tumour. Hsematuria is present in over 90 per cent, of adult cases, and is the first symptom in 70 per cent. In children it is much less frequent (15 per cent.), and occurs late. The hsematuria is spontaneous, inter- mittent, and capricious, and is but little influenced by rest. The blood is well mixed and varies in quantity. Ureteral clots like long, slender