VARIETIES OF MAMMARY CANCER 79 bleeding, and dissemination lead rapidly to death. To growths of this character the name medullary carcinoma was formerly applied, as indicating their soft, marrowy consistence. They occur more especially in young women, and are of bad prognosis. Many of the cases which clinically present the features to be described as characteristic of sarcoma are nevertheless found on microscopical examination to be carcinomas of this type. Atrophic scirrhus.—Cases are not uncommon in whicli the struggle between the cancer and the individual is prolonged and doubtful. Such appears to be the true explanation of cases of atrophic scirrhus. In the most marked form of atrophic scirrhus a puckered scar, to which the slcin may be attached, slowly forms in the breast. The whole breast becomes somewhat shrunken and the nipple indrawn, but no definite tumour makes its appearance. The disease in this form is usually painless, and the patient's attention is attracted only by local puckering and adhesion of the skin. Frequently the patient attaches no importance to these signs, and it is only when she consults a medical man for some other con- dition that the lesion of the breast is discovered. The condition may persist for many years without obvious change until the patient dies of some other disease, but if she survives long enough it is likely that local malignant ulceration or dissemination resulting from permeation will terminate the case. In less extreme cases of atrophic scirrhus the primary focus, after attaining the dimensions of a definite tumour, subsequently shrinks and disappears, or leaves only a mass of dense fibrous tissue, in the central portion of which no trace of malignant epithelium can be found. The breast is reduced to a small fibrous relic resembling the male breast. Complete fibrosis of the primary growth does not necessarily or usually prevent dissemination, which, however, in these cases is very slow, attacking rather the skin, subcutaneous tissue, and bones than tlie internal organs. Some authorities state that cases of atropliic scirrhus should not be operated upon—an opinion which probably dates from the time when nearly every operation upon breast cancer was an incomplete one. If any part of the growth is left behind, it is quite likely that it may be stimulated to vigorous activity by the operative interference. But there is now a reasonable hope of complete operative eradication of the disease, and, even if this end is not attained, the inhibitory action of X-rays may be called in to assist the effect of the operation. I hold, therefore, that cases of atrophic scirrhus, except in very old or very feeble patients, should be operated upon. No one can tell wlien an atrophic scirrhus may blossom forth into a carcinoma with active powers of dissemination.