VAGINAL TUMOURS 997 Thin-Walled C3^sts sometimes occur on the lateral or lower part of the anterior vaginal wall. These are Wolffian in origin, and have been found extending up into the broad ligament in the course of Gartner's duct. The cyst should be excised if it is causing trouble. SOLID TUMOURS, INNOCENT AND MALIGNANT Solid tumours of the vagina are very rare. Myomas are most often encountered. They appear as rounded hard tumours bulging into the lumen of the canal, and covered by the mucous membrane lining it. Papillomas and soft fihromas occur occasionally. Malignant disease is uncommon in the vagina. Squamous-celled carcinoma may be primary there or secondary to a growth in the cervix. It assumes the form of a nodular ulceration. Adeno-carci- noma secondary to carcinoma of the corpus is sometimes seen. Me- tastatic nodules of chorion-epithelioma are relatively common in the course of this interesting disease, and in addition a good number of cases are recorded in which this variety of malignant disease has appeared there primarily. Sarcoma of the vagina occurs both in children and in adults. In the former it assumes the same " grape-like " appearance that charac- terizes infantile sarcoma of the cervix. In adults it presents as a soft, red, " velvety "-surfaced mass. Both types are exceedingly rare. Symptoms.—The innocent growths may give rise to no symptoms, or, by their size, may cause marital difficulty or pain. The malignant tumours present the clinical features common to them elsewhere. Treatment—The innocent tumours should be removed. Vaginal myomas are well encapsulated, and shell out easily. Malignant disease of the vagina is a very serious matter, owing to the readiness with which it spreads to the rectum or bladder, and the frequency with which it is already inoperable when the patient presents herself. Where limited to the vagina, the growth demands total removal of this canal together with the uterus—total hystero-vaginectomy {see rmder Carcinoma of the Cervix, p. 1022). Where a small primary growth exists close to the outlet, the lower part of the vagina alone may be excised, and the upper portion pulled down and united to the skin. THE UTERUS DEFORMITIES AND DISPLACEMENTS ABSENCE OF THE UTERUS V~ The uterus may be absent altogether. Such deformity is usually- asso- ciated with more or less deficiency of the vagina and maldevelopment of t!ie ovaries.