642 HERNIA weight, defsecation, vomiting, coughing, etc., the immediate effect being the forcing of a fresh mass of omentum or a coil of bowel into the sac, the neck of which is too narrow for it; or the production of a volvulus of bowel already in the sac. 2. Some violence applied from without, such as foolhardy and clumsy attempts at the reduction of an irreducible hernia ; the result being its conversion into one of the forms of " reduction en masse," the setting up of an inflammatory oedema of the sac or its contents ; or the forcing of the bowel through a rent in the omentum. 3. Simple rapid increase, from overgrowth of fat, of the omental contents of the sac. 4. Sudden distension of the bowel in the sac from acute enteritis. 5. Gradual increase in the bulk of an incarcerating mass in the bowel. 6. The growth of a tumour in the sac. Of the above causes, the first is by far the commonest. Pathology of strangulation. — The process may be divided into three stages, between which there is no real dividing Une, but which are easily recognizable at operation and are important as a guide to treatment and prognosis. The first stage is that of con- gestion from venous engorgement, the bowel being cyanosed and the omentum dark and covered by large loops of over-filled veins. As the result of this, oedema of the contents shortly occurs, and the pressure within the sac is increased. Soon the engorgement becomes so great that fluid accumulates in the sac, and this is frequently turbid or blood-stained. The sac is now tense, and the bowel becomes deep- purple in colour, and blood may be effused into its lumen. The second stage is marked by the loss by the bowel of its smooth, ghstening appearance, by its blackish-grey colour, and by its wet-wash- leather consistence. The fluid now becomes distinctly faeculent in odour. The third stage is that of actual gangrene of the bowel, or of ulceration and perforation at the site of constriction. In the case of Richter's hernia, where only the lateral wall of the bowel is involved, it is clear that perforation may take place without the signs already described as characterizing strangulation being present. Results of untreated strangulation.—The prognosis is usually fatal; at times, however, recovery takes place as the result of the formation of a faecal fistula on the surface of the body. Strangulated inguinal hernia.—Inguinal hernia becomes strangulated more frequently in males than in females, owing prob- ably to the nature of their work; the immediate cause is usually