1012 THE UTERUS ACUTE ENDOMETRITIS Pathology.—Acute infection of the interior of the uterus is most typically seen after labour and abortion. The streptococcus is usually found in the more virulent puerperal infections, but the pneumococcus, staphylococcus, and B. coli also occur. In the absence of recent pregnancy, acute endometritis is most commonly caused by the gonococcus, but it may also arise after operations, in the course of the extrusion of a polypus, or as a consequence of a breaking-down carcinoma. In acute streptococcal endometritis the mucosa is necrotic, either diphtheroid or foully sloughing, and the whole uterine wall is cedematous, and often presents multiple abscesses. In the less virulent infections, such as the gonococcal, the endometrium is frankly suppurating, the interglandular stroma is packed with polynuclear leucocytes, and much of the epithelium has desquamated. Clinical features.—The symptoms of puerperal endometritis are those collectively known as " puerperal fever," a full description of which will be found in obstetrical textbooks. Gonorrhoeal endo- metritis usually supervenes some weeks after the initiation of the infection. There is much pain in the lower abdomen and the vagina, and the uterus on examination is very tender. The pulse and temperature are raised. The menstrual period may be suppressed or excessive. Diagnosis.—The symptoms of acute gonorrhoeal endometritis closely resemble those of acute gonococcal salpingitis, with which, indeed, the acute uterine inflammation is often associated. The presence of a definite swelling on one or both sides of the uterus, coupled with lower abdominal rigidity and distension, is an indication of salpingitis. In the absence of these signs it may be in- ferred that the affection is limited to the uterus. Treatment.—Acute puerperal or postabortional endometritis is dealt with by immediately exploring the uterine cavity, removing all gestational fragments, and thoroughly irrigating with a strong antiseptic. Antitoxic serums or vaccines may be tried. The removal of the uterus is a very fatal proceeding in these cases. In non-puerperal cases, especially if gonorrhoeal, no operation is usually indicated. The patient must be kept in bed, and pain alleviated by fomentations to the abdomen and the administration of sedatives. The vagina should be frequently douched with some mild antiseptic in hot solution, and the bowels kept open by saline aperients. Opera- tive interference is to be avoided, for it might precipitate extension to the tubes. Where a sloughing tumour is the cause, it must be removed if possible.