THE INTESTINES 520 If it is necessary to divert the fseces from the colon, entirely, an artificial anus is made in the first part of the ascending colon, and through this irrigation can be carried out. The artificial anus is closed when the disease has been overcome. When it is possible to implant the lower end of the divided ileum into the pelvic colon (ileo-sigmoidostomy) beyond the ulcerated area, this operation is preferable to the formation of an artificial anus. Ulcerative Colitis Under tliis term are included certain forms of ulceration of the colon which cannot be ascribed to any specific organism or irritant, although they are closely allied to dysenteric ulceration. The ulcers, which may be met with at various stages, vary greatly in size, some being no larger than a pea, while others destroy large tracts of the mucosa. The edges are raised and irregular, the base is covered with feeble granulations to which shreds of tenacious mucus adhere, and the surrounding mucous membrane is inflamed and red. The mucosa between the ulcers is cedematous and raised, so that it may assume the appearance of a series of polypi. The destructive process gradually spreads through the coats of the bowel, and may end in perforation, and set up a localized pericolitis or peritonitis. If a large artery is involved, copious hsemorrhage may result. Abscess of the liver is a rare complication of this type of ulceration—a point in which it differs from the dysenteric form. Clinical features.—The disease is commonest in early adult life and afiects the sexes equally. The outstanding symptom is diarrhoea attended with abdominal pain and tenderness along the line of the colon. The bowels move very frequently, sometimes every two or three hours ; there is seldom tenesmus unless the rectum also is implicated. The motions are watery and contain only a small proportion of fseculent matter, but a great quantity of mucus, some pus, and often blood. The dejections are very offensive. As the food passes through the bowel quickly and is imperfectly digested, the patient emaciates rapidly. The disease is a very intract- able one, and is attended with a high mortality. By the use of the sigmoidoscope, the ulcers in the pelvic colon may be seen. Some cases run a less acute course, the symptoms disappearing and recurring at intervals. Treatment.—General dietetic and medicinal treatment, carried out on the same lines as for other forms of inflammation and ulceration of the colon, should be tried in the fiirst instance. The use of a Bacillus coU vaccine has proved beneficial (Hale White). If these measures