THE KIDNEY It is necessary to localize the disease to the kidney and to ascertain which kidney is affected. The presence of symptoms such as pain and enlargement of the kidney is not always reliable, for a hyper- trophied healthy kidney may be enlarged and ache, while a kidney •destroyed by tubercle may not be palpable, painful, or tender. On cystoscopy general cystitis without typical tuberculous appear- ances may be found, or there may be tubercles or ulceration of the vesical mucous membrane or a collection of tiny cysts grouped around one ureteric orifice. The orifice may be open, trumpet-shaped, and extensively ulcerated. In old-standing tuberculosis of the kidney the ureteric orifice may be dragged upwards and outwards, and appear like a tunnel (Fenwick). The urine of each kidney should be obtained by means of the ure- teric catheter and examined for tubercle bacilli, pus, blood casts, etc. Treatment. 1. Tuberculin.—Amelioration of symptoms, and in some cases disappearance of pus and tubercle bacilli from the urine, may be observed, but recurrence of the symptoms may take place after some months or years. Tuberculin treatment is recommended in —(a) cases of unilateral renal tuberculosis where nephrectomy has been refused, (b) vesical tuberculosis after nephrectomy, (c) bilateral xenal tuberculosis, (d) renal with active extra-urinary tuberculosis, and {e) renal tuberculosis in children, on account of the great frequency of bilateral disease. 2. Climatic and medicinal.—A warm equable climate is most suitable (Egypt, Morocco, South Africa). Nourishing diet, with plenty of milk and fats, should be recommended. Urotropin is unnecessary if no septic infection be present, and it may irritate the hypersensitive bladder. Sandalwood oil soothes the vesical irritation. Washing the bladder is useless therapeutically, and involves great danger, of introducing sepsis. 3. Operative. Nephrectomy.—^Nephrectomy in the early stage of lenal tuberculosis is the only method by which a cure can be assured, and the operation is indicated whenever the diagnosis of unilateral Tenal tuberculosis is made. Nephrectomy is contra-indicated in—(i) Bilateral renal tuberculosis ; but nephrectomy of the more advanced organ is sometimes advocated to diminish the toxaemia. (ii) Non-tuberculous nephritis of the second kidney ; but if the tests for the fimction of this kidney be satisfactory, neplu-ectomy should be performed. (iii) Tuberculous lesions of the bladder ; although these do not contra-indicate nephrectomy if the second kidney can be proved healthy. After nephrectomy the cystitis either subsides spontaneously >or disappears under tuberculin. ^ |