THE URETHRA 890 in the canal. The foreign body does not remain for long in the urethra. It is either forced out by the urine or removed by the surgeon, or it may pass backwards into the bladder. When it remains in the urethra there are puinlent discharge, pain, burning, and hiemorrhage, increased by erections. Frequent micturition, difficulty, dribbling, and sometimes complete retention of urine occur. The foreign body quickly becomes encrusted with phosphates. Periurethritis and periurethral abscess may result. The situation is usually the fossa navicularis or bulbous urethra, rarely the prostatic urethra. Treatment.—The body may be swept out by the stream of urine if the meatus is compressed during the flow and then suddenly relaxed. A long firm body may be pressed out from the perineum or penis. Meatotomy is frequently necessary. A pin with a round head lies in the urethra with the head bladderwards and the point buried in the mucous membrane. The point should be mani- pulated tlirough the uretlira and skin, and the pin drawn out, the head reversed, and then pushed out of the meatus. Small bodies or portions of catheter may be withdrawn by means of long fine urethral forceps, and a magnet has been employed to remove an iron foreign body. The uretliroscope is used to diagnose and remove foreign bodies, uretliral forceps being passed along a large urethral tube. If these measures fail, external urethrotomy should be performed and the foreign body removed. When the foreign body lies in the prostatic urethra it will be easier to push it back into the bladder and deal with it as a foreign body of the bladder. STRICTURE Stricture of the urethra is congenital, inflammatory, or traumatic. The congenital variety has already been described (p. 886). Etiology.—The female urethra is very rarely affected. Acquired stricture has been observed in male infants, but the age is usually between 20 and 40 years. Inflammatory stricture results from chronic urethritis, which has a gonorrhoeal origin in 90 per cent, of cases. Any condition which tends to prolong the inflammation in chronic urethritis, such as a narrow meatus, phimosis, injudicious treatment, alcohol, or exposure, acts as a predisposing cause. Rarely, chronic urethritis due to tuber- culosis of the urethra or diabetes produces stricture. Stricture has followed a urethral chancre or a gumma. Pathological anatomy.—In traumatic stricture, fibrous tissue develops between the severed ends of the ruptured urethra, the extent of which depends upon the distance they lie apart, necrosis from the injury, or subsequent sloughing from septic complications. The lesion develops rapidly, is single, and the seat of election is the bulbous urethra. A thick tough mass of fibrous tissue involves the mucous and submucous coats and the cavernous tissue, and sometimes also the perineal tissues and sldn. Gonorrhoeal strictures are usually multiple, and most frequently affect the bulbous urethra. The prostatic urethra is very rarely affected in gonorrhoeal stricture. The strictured portion of the wall is confined