THE SPLEEN io8 In hospital practice, and in private practice when surgical aid is obtainable, preparation for an operation should be made as soon as a diagnosis is established. Meantime, absolute rest and freedom from any disturbance must be enforced. The foot of the bed should be raised, and the extremities firmly bandaged. If operation be decided on, continuous subcutaneous saline infusion should be com- menced as soon as the abdomen has been opened. For this purpose the rubber bags designed by Arbuthnot Lane are very efficient. As «ome uncertainty as to the nature and extent of the injuries in these cases must always exist, it is advisable to open the abdomen freely in the middle line above the umbilicus so that the liver and kidneys as well as the spleen can be examined. If it be found that the spleen only is ruptured, further procedure will depend on the extent of the injury, and it may then be necessary to make an incision in the left Jinea semilunaris. In most cases splenectomy (p. 103) is advisable. In cases of minor injury, packing with gauze may suffice to arrest bleeding, but this method is not free from risk of subsequent haemorrhage, and may be followed by infection, suppuration, and a septic sinus. In extreme ■cases, however, when the collapse is so great that excision seems out of the question, it may be employed.^ Attempts to suture tears in the spleen have usually failed, and time devoted to this procedure will be more profitably spent in liga- turing the splenic vessels and excising the damaged viscus. If suture be employed, the linked mattress-suture should be used, as less liable to " cut out " than other forms of suture. Immediately the splenic origin of the hsemorrhage is ascertained an assistant should secure and digitally compress the splenic vessels until the surgeon is prepared to ligature these and remove the organ. At the conclusion of the operation all blood-clot should be removed from the abdomen, and the peritoneal cavity flushed out with hot saline solution (115-120° Fahr.). The abdominal flushing can be commenced as soon as the abdomen is opened, and carried on con- tinuously by an assistant while the surgeon proceeds with the operation. As a rule, drainage is unnecessary. As much saline solution as possible should be left in the peritoneal cavity. Rectal or subcutaneous infusion should be continued after the operation, and regulated by the condition of the pulse. Complications.—Sepsis is the complication most to be feared. Pneumonia and empyema frequently follow operation, and may be ^ D'Arcy Power successfully plugged the splenic area in the case of a boy who was kicked by a horse and who developed symptoms of severe haemorrhage two days after the injury. Encouraged by this success, he employed the same method on the next occasion that he operated for ruptured spleen, but unfortunately the haemorrhage recurred and death resulted.