286 THE (ESOPHAGUS mediastinum on the right side may be invaded, and a case of ex- tensive subcutaneous emphysema has been recorded as the result of this occurrence. An oesophageal cancer sometimes extends to the pericardium. A carcinomatous ulcer, situated at the upper or lower end of the oesophagus, may spread to the pharynx or stomach respectively. At the upper end the ulcer may extend (a) forwards over the cricoid, and involve the arytenoids or larynx, or (b) backwards, and become adherent to, or even erode, the vertebrae. Growths at the cardiac end have been seen to spread for some distance into the wall of the stomach. Carcinoma of the cardiac end of the stomach spreads to the oesophagus. Of 26 cases of malig- nant disease of the cardiac end of the stomach, in 16 it had invaded the oesophagus for some distance (Fawcett). It would appear that the growth is sometimes determined by some previous change in the epithelium, such as scarring due to old ulcera- tion from various causes. The common location of the growth in the narrow portion of the wall suggests that irritation may be a factor in its development. It has frequently been noted that oesophageal carcinoma is associated with raised plaques of thickened epithelium scattered over other portions of the mucous membrane. They appear to be analogous with leucoplakia of the tongue, and their association with carcinomatous change is most significant of the presence of some chronic irritation. Sex- and age-incidence. — Carcinoma of the oesophagus is essentially a disease of the male sex. It is estimated that about 80 per cent, of the cases occur in males. A family history of car- cinoma was found in 6 per cent. (Rolleston). It is a disease of later life, and but seldom met with before the age of 40. In the female sex it is found to occur at a somewhat earlier period (Rolleston). Its greater frequency in the male sex has been attributed to the greater liability to irritation from tobacco, alcohol, etc., and possibly to the more frequent occurrence of syphilitic lesions. Distribution. — Carcinoma tends to arise in certain well- defined areas of the oesophageal wall. It afiects the narrow portions of the tube, namely, the origin, the neighbourhood of the tracheal bifurcation, and the lower end. The relative frequency with which carcinoma involves any one of these portions has been a matter of dispute. Mackenzie (1875) maintained that the upper portion of the oesophagus was affected in 40 per cent, of all cases. Other authorities (von Hacker, Butlin, Rolleston) favoured the lower portion and the part in relation to the tracheal bifurcation. Von Hacker (Kraus) in 100 cases found that 40 per cent, arose at the tracheal bifurcation, and 30 per cent, at the lower end, whilst only 10 per cent, involved the upper portion. Von Bergmann maintains that the region of the bifurcation of