822 THE KIDNEY symptom. It is due to pressure of enlarged glands or of the growth, or to engorgement of the capsular vein which anastomoses with the spermatic vein. It disappears after nephrectomy, and shoidd not be considered a contra-indication to operation. The development of a varicocele in a man past 35 should always lead to careful examination for renal tumour. Cachexia appears late. A specific fever of a re- mittent or recurrent type is observed in 8 per cent, of cases (Israel). Increased arterial tension has been noted, and in hypernephroma an abnormally rapid pulse is not uncommon. The X-rays give a dense shadow with indefinite outline, and metas- tatic nodules in the lungs can be clearly demonstrated by this means. Course and prognosis.—The average duration of the disease from the appearance of the first symptom to the fatal issue is three and a half years (Garceau). Diagnosis.—Where hsematuria is the only symptom the disease can be localized to one kidney by the cystoscope. Portions of the growth may be found in the urine, but exploration of the kidney is the sole certain method of diagnosis. Where tumour is the only symptom an exploratory laparotomy may be necessary to establish the diagnosis. Tumour with hsematuria, without other symptoms, is characteristic of growth. Treatment.—Palliative treatment consists in the administration of ergot, adrenalin, or calcium lactate to control haemorrhage, and of opium and morphia to soothe pain. Nephrectomy is sometimes justifiable for the relief of pain, even when secondary growths are known to be present, but is seldom necessary. Early total nephrectomy alone holds out a prospect of cure. Opera- tion is contra-indicated where (a) the growth has spread beyond the kidney, (6) the second kidney is functionally inadequate, (c) the patient is weak and cachectic, or {d) the heart is dilated and feeble. In all large growths the peritoneum should be opened and the peritoneal aspect of the tumour examined. The liver and lymph- glands should be examined. The efficiency of the second kidney must be previously determined, and thoracic radiograms taken to exclude pulmonary metastases. The ideal operation should remove the kidney and growth, adipose capsule, the lymphatic vessels, and the suprarenal capsule. Nephrec- tomy is performed by the lumbar route. The mortality of this opera- tion for renal growth has fallen during recent years from 76 per cent. (1885) to 22 per cent. (1902). Eecurrence takes place in 60 per cent, of cases, and in over 70 per cent, of these it occurs during the first year. Recurrence is rare after the third or fourth year, but has been described after four and a half years (Abbe) and five years (Witzel).