807 PYELITIS Cystoscopically the ureteric efflux is copious, frequently repeated, and cloudy. The lips of the ureteric orifice are reddened and thick and surrounded by a halo of congestion. Urethral catheterization demonstrates the characteristic urine, which may be alkaline on the diseased side. The symptoms of pyelitis may be obscured by those of cystitis. Diagnosis.—In cystitis the diagnosis depends upon the presence of renal aching, the observation of a cloudy efflux and changes at the ureteric orifice, and the examination of a specimen drawn by the ureteric catheter. It is incomplete until calculus has been found or excluded. Treatment.—Any cause of local irritation such as stone should be removed, and diseases of the lower urinary tract such as stricture and enlarged prostate treated. Urinary antiseptics (urotropin, hetraline, helmitol) and diuretic waters (Contrexeville, Evian, Vittel) should be given. Vaccine treatment should be tried in chronic cases (see Pyelo- nephritis, p. 805). Instillations of argyrol and other silver preparations may be made through the ureteric catheter, but are only justifiable in expert hands. In severe cases, where all methods of treatment have failed, the kidney should be exposed, the pelvis opened, drained by a rubber tube and washed with nitrate of silver solution. Pyelitis of Infancy and Childhood Many cases are met with in infants and older children, especially girls. There is frequently a history of constipation, and sometimes of diarrhoea. The symptoms begin suddenly with a rigor, followed by rise of temperature (104° to 106° F.), which becomes remittent in type. The child is pale, restless, and distressed. Anorexia is marked, and delirium, squinting, and vomiting follow. Emaciation is slow. There may be repeated chills. The local symptoms are insignificant. Attacks of screaming due to colic occur, and there may be tenderness on palpation of the kidney. There is occasionally pain during and increased frequency of micturition. Yellowish staining of the diapers may be the first sign. The urine is strongly acid and contains pus, some albumin, red blood-corpuscles, epithelial cells from the renal pelvis and sometimes from the bladder, and occasionally hyaline and finely granular casts. Bacteria are present, usually the Bacillus coli, occasionally the staphy- lococcus or the strejjtococcus. Diagnosis.—This depends upon the examination of the urine.