INFANTILE PYLORIC STENOSIS 317 Willcox and Miller liave shown that the condition may be diagnosed from acid dyspepsia with pyloric spasm by examination of the stomach contents. In infantile stenosis the total acidity and active HCl are low, mucus is present in considerable amount, and ferment activity is liigh. In pyloric spasm, on the other hand, the total acidity is high, mucus is absent, and the ferment activity is low. They also point out that acid dyspepsia presents neither visible peristalsis nor tumour, and that it occurs in infants of 3 months or older. Prognosis.—This is largely determined by the time at which the condition is recognized and treatment adopted. If untreated or treated late, it is in- evitably fatal. Of the 6 cases, all under the age of 6 months, treated by medical means at the London Hospital, all died. Neuratli has re- corded 41 cases in infants less than a year old, all of whom died under medi- cal treatment. Cautlcy and Dent state that, un- less operated upon, all die before reaching the age of 4 months. Robert Hutchison records a death- rate of 78 per cent, in a series of 64 cases medi- cally treated fat Great Ormond Street Children's Hospital. Thomson has had 41 cases under his care in 13 not operated upon there were 4 recoveries. Still has had 42 cases with 36 complete histories : of 14 which were operated upon, 8 recovered; whilst of the 22 who were medically treated, 11 recovered. On the other hand, Robert Hutchison has seen 20 cases of undoubted infantile stenosis in his private practice: of these 17 were treated at home, and all recovered without operation; 3 were sent into hospital, and 2 died. Blocli has re- ported 12 cases : 8 patients recovered after medical treatment, 2 died after operation, and 2 were moribund when first seen. Heubner records 19 recoveries out of 21 cases treated medically. There can be no doubt that the prognosis is grave, and that spontaneous cure rarely if ever occurs ; if the condition be recognized and treated at an early stage, recovery will take place in the majority of cases. This opinion is supported by Deaver and Ashurst, who state it as their belief that " in the immense majority of cases, medical treatment promptly instituted and energetically applied will be successful in curing the patient." ■73 Fig. 368.—Infantile pyloric stenosis. Stomach opened to show the longitudinal folds of mucous membrane in pyloric portion. {Loudon Host'iial Museum.) : 27 were submitted to operation, with 8 recoveries;