987 VENEREAL AFFECTIONS infection witli pyogenetic or necrogenetic organisms, leading to great ■destruction of the parts. In tlie secondary period of syphilis various manifestations may appear on the vulva, usually taking the form of superficial ulcerations ■vdth elevated warty edges. The initial swelling of the labia minora ■due to lymphangitis may persist, and result in an elephantoid hyper- trophy. Tertiary lesions are rare on the vulva, but when occurring take the form of gummatous masses which by their subsequent changes may ■occasion much deformity. Venereal warts, though commonly known as " gonorrhoeal," are not •due to the gonococcus. They may occur without gonorrhoea, and occasionally in situations other than the vulva (e.g. the umbilicus). Microscopically they are pure papillomas. They are multiple, grow rapidly, and may attain an enormous size, the surface resembling that of a cauliflower. They emit a foul odour and a serous discharge. Treatment.—Mercury should not, as a rule, be administered until the diagnosis of syphilis is certain. Meanwhile the local condition •should be treated by frequent irrigation with biniodide of mercury solution (1-1,000), and by the application of boric ointment on a piece of lint inserted between the labia. After the lymphangitis has •subsided the ulcers are best treated with a dusting powder such as aristol. If the inguinal glands suppurate they must be opened. Secondary lesions may be similarly treated, the patient having been put on a mercurial course or treated by salvarsan. Tertiary lesions require iodide of potassium internally, combined with mercury. Re- ference has already been made to the local treatment of phagedsena. Venereal warts should be snipped away with scissors. Oozing may be considerable, but can be checked by sutures or by the light appli- ■cation of a dull-red cautery. Elephantoid hypertrophy of the labia minora is treated by excision. TUBERCULOUS VULVITIS This is very rare, and is almost invariably associated with tuberculosis ■elsewhere. The ulcers are very jjainful, often foul, and may even be mis- taken for malignant disease on account of the granulomatous thickening of the tissues. The diagnosis can only be made by examination of an excised portion of the tissue. The ulcers should be scraj^ed with a sharp sj)Oon imtil healthy tissue is reached, and carbolic acid then apjilied. In some cases ■excision of the diseased area is feasible. Vaccine treatment is of value. HERPES OF THE VULVA (APHTHOUS VULVITIS) Occasionally shallow, whitish excoriations are found on the vulva, producing considerable irritation. They are distinguished from vene- leal disease by the absence of swelling, of labial lymphangitis, and of