242 THE SALIVARY GLANDS present or not. Owing to the denseness of the fascia over the parotid, the ordinary signs of an abscess, a red, fluctuating swelling, may be entirely absent. In my opinion, an incision should be made into the swelling in every case in which the symptoms have steadily increased in severity or have even persisted without abatement for five days or longer. In making the incision, regard should be had to the course of the facial nerve. Even if no abscess is found, the tension will be relieved by division of the deep fascia. If a localized abscess is discovered, it should be drained by means of a rubber tube, and hot fomentations should be applied. In other cases no definite abscess can be found, but the whole gland is disintegrated and infiltrated with pus (this was the state of the gland in Carr's case, already quoted). In these circumstances the prognosis is extremely grave, and a fatal termination must be expected. If relief is not afforded by early surgical interference, a parotid abscess may travel and point in several directions. Most commonly it makes its way backwards and discharges its contents through the external auditory meatus ; or it may burrow behind the pharjmx and oesophagus, and extend into the mediastinum. Beveridge has recorded a case in which a parotid abscess travelled upwards behind the zygoma, and pointed in the temporal fossa. Other untoward results which have been observed are complete destruction of the facial nerve and thrombosis of the jugular vein and lateral sinus, with extension of the septic process to the interior of the cranium. SUBACUTE AND CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE SALIVARY GLANDS This condition is very rare apart from inflammation of the duct; in fact, to Kiittner alone we owe our knowledge of it. According to him, it is only found in the submaxillary glands, which become enlarged so as to form an oval swelling. This tends to enlarge in size, and to become adherent to surrounding tissues ; for this reason Kiittner advises enucleation of the afiected glands. When examined micro- scopically they are found to contain foci of granulation tissue and small abscesses. The chief point of cUnical interest is the difficulty of diagnosing the condition from a sarcoma or a gumma. INFLAMMATION OF THE SALIVARY DUCTS The salivary ducts are liable to inflammation from the same causes which produce parotitis, i.e. septic conditions of the mouth. The condition is peculiarly prone to occur in any form of xerostomia. A series of cases of this nature has been reported by Raymond Johnson. The patients sought advice on account of a swelling of one parotid gland, which was painful and became larger at mealtimes.