ioi6 THE UTERUS ENDOMETRIAL HYPERTROPHY Hypertrophy of the endometrium may follow non-infective chronic uterine enlargement and hypervascularity, particularly that caused by myomas. In such cases the mucous membrane exhibits a diffuse hypertrophy, differing from that of endometritis in the absence of inflammatory cells. Cervicitis and cervical erosion are not present. A watery discharge. more marked after the menstrual period is the characteristic symptom. It comes from the enlarged uterine glands. Menorrhagia is also present. Removal of the thickened mucosa by the curette is indicated if no tumour of the uterus exists. Where a myoma is present, either myomectomy or hysterectomy is called for. Curettage of a myomatous uterus may produce degeneration or infec- tive necrosis of the tumour, and in any circumstances is likely to fail. FIBROTIC METRITIS (UTERINE FIBROSIS) Within the last few years a pathological condition of the uterine wall has been distinguished, characterized by diffuse fibrous over- growth and corresponding muscular degeneration. Its causation is not known in all cases, but the most marked examples are secondary to long-continued endometritis. In others it is possibly the ultimate outcome of subinvolution after labour or abortion, whilst in a third group a primary cirrhosis of vascular origin appears probable. Macroscopically, the uterus is usually somewhat enlarged and very hard, and from its cut surface a number of thick-walled and inelastic vessels project. Microscopically, diffuse fibrosis is seen, especially under and in the endometrium, which is shrunken and hard, and in the worst cases ecchymosed. The vessels have largely lost their muscular tunic, and in places are converted into sinus-like channels without definite coats. Symptoms.—Profuse and intractable menstrual haemorrhage from a uterus but slightly enlarged and not deformed is the characteristic symptom. The loss may become almost continuous, and the patient intensely anaemic. Diagnosis.—^Absolute diagnosis is impossible until the uterine cavity has been explored, for similar profuse losses may be caused by intra-uterine polyps, or small sessile myomas or adeno-myomas. In fibrosis the cavity is empty, and the curette scrapes hard and rough on the sclerotic surface. A characteristic feature is the inability of ergot or other styptic drugs to control the haemorrhage, owing to the degeneracy of the uterine musculature. Many cases are repeatedly and uselessly curetted before the true diagnosis is made. Treatment—Hysterectomy is usually necessary, total if the cervix is unhealthy. In doubtful cases a thorough curetting should first be tried.