1051 SALPINGITIS Clivical co?/rsc.—This varies. In favourable cases the symptoms begin to subside in about three days, and after a period of some week or two complete recovery may ensue. More commonly, however, subsidence is only partial, a permanently tender fixed swelling being left in the region of the appendage, accompanied by the symptoms of chronic hydrosalpinx or fibrotic salpingitis. In the more severe cases {acute pyosalpinx) the temperature con- tinues to rise after the fourth day, and becomes markedly remittent, indicating the formation of pus in the tube. Rigors may occur. Three courses are now possible. In the first, after some days, a discharge of pus from the rectum may indicate spontaneous evacuation of the retained pus. The symptoms may greatly ameliorate after this event, but since both tubes are usually affected and these spontaneous openings do not drain well, the symptoms after initial improvement fi'equently recur. In the second course no spontaneous discharge occurs, but the patient gradually passes into a state of chronic fever and pain with recurring exacerbations [chronic pyosaljmix). Finally, in the worst cases, namely, those in which -pus escapes through the abdominal ostium into the peritoneal cavity, the symptoms of generalized peritonitis may be present. Except in this event, and the still rarer one of spontaneous rupture of the distended tube into the peritoneal cavity, it is uncommon to find pus actually in the peritoneum in cases of salpingitis. Chronic salpingitis. Symptoms. — The symptoms of chronic salpingitis vary with the condition of the diseased tube. Where a pyosalpinx is present, the leading feature is continual pain and tenderness over the affected tube or tubes, with recurring exacer- bations accompanied by fever and sickness. These exacerbations are often synchronous with the menses and are provoked by exertion or intercourse. Coitus is usually impossible. Intermittent discharges of pus from the tube, via the uterus, may take place. The menses are excessive, prolonged and often anticipated. In hydrosalpinx and in fibrotic salpingitis these exacerbations are not so marked, but pain is continual in the lower abdomen on one or both sides. Dysmenorrhoea, dysjsareunia, and sterility are present. All forms of salpingitis are almost constantly accompanied by endometritis and cervicitis, the symptoms of which are also present. The uterus is often retroverted, especially in salpingitis of postparturi- tional origin. Diagnosis. Acute salpingitis.—The symptoms of ruptured tubal gestation, of axial rotation of an ovarian tumour or a peduncu- lated myoma, of appendicitis, of a suppurating ovarian cyst, and of acute pelvic cellulitis, all more or less resemble those of acute salpingitis. The physical signs of ruptured tubal gestation are almost identical