POSTOPERATIVE COMPLICATIONS 637 Care should be taken not to disturb the wires of the fiHgree by the introduction of probes, etc., for the presence of loose wires in the sinus is the surest means of preventing healing. 10. Retention of urine.—In all operations on the groins or perineum this is liable to occur from time to time ; it would appear to be less frequent where the operation is performed under spinal analgesia. In any case, it is a temporary complication of no great importance, and is readily overcome by the use of a catheter. 11. Orchitis and epididymitis.—This is seen in a certain proportion of inguinal hernias. It usually comes on within the first four or five days after operation, and may last for a week or ten days, gradually subsiding on the application of hot fomentations, or the use of glycerine and belladonna ; the patient's bowels should be kept freely open, and the testes should be kept raised upon a pad of soft wool supported on a band of strapping passed across the thighs. The prognosis is good, suppuration being rare, and little damage resulting to the testes. The trouble is probably due to rough handhng of the vas and to congestion of the pampiniform plexus of veins. 12. Paralytic ileus.—Tliis is by far the most serious com- phcation of hernial operations, and is rarely met with except in the case of prolonged manipulation of the bowels in dealing with unusually large hernias, especially umbilical ones in plethoric subjects. The symptoms are those of gradually oncoming intestinal obstruction, and unless the bowels can be induced to move, the case is likely to terminate rapidly. If distension occurs and cannot be relieved by the rectal tube and turpentine enemata, time should not be wasted in the ad- ministration of drugs, but the abdomen should be opened and the caecum or distal end of the ileum brought out of the wound, and a Paul's tube inserted, after which strychnine, sulphate of magnesium, croton oil, etc., may be given. Eserine salicylate and pituitrin are also of value, and may be given hypodermically. Where vomiting has actually set in, the prognosis is very grave ; and where the vomit is faecal the case is, as a rule, hopeless. In extreme cases, where the manipulation gives reason to fear the possibility of ileus, prevention is better than cure, and the csecum should be opened at the time of operation, a Paul's tube being inserted and the bowels evacuated at once.^ Such drastic treatment must, of course, be reserved for the most exceptional cases. Recurrence of hernia after operation.—Although less commonly seen than formerly, recurrence is still far from rare, and may be met with as the result of—■ 1. Suppuration, which accounts for about 60 per cent, of all cases. ' On this subject the reader is referred to a valuable article by Victor Bonney {see Bibliography).