HOUR-GLASS STOMACH GASTRIC VOLVULUS In gastric volvulus the stomach may become twisted in one of tliree directions : (1) Around its transverse axis; (2) around an antero-posterior axis ; (3) around an axis at right angles to its greater curvature. This is an extremely rare condition, of whicli the recorded cases number 20. Deaver and Ashurst have collected 13, and individual cases have been recorded by Jiano, Knaggs, Hermes, Tiirmoos, Payer, Niosi, and Delangre. Until the normal relations of the stomach have been altered in some way, volvulus is impossible. It may arise in gastroptosis, and has occurred (Knaggs) in association with diaphragmatic hernia ; in 3 cases it complicated hour-glass contraction of the stomach in which the pyloric pouch was large; cases have been recorded following injury, in others the symptoms have appeared suddenly during apparent health. In most of the cases the stomach became twisted around its transverse axis, the transverse colon passing up- wards and backwards. As a result of this, both orifices of the stomach are usually obstructed. Symptoms.—The onset is sudden, with pain in the epigastric region, followed by collapse. As a rule the patient does not vomit, but only regurgitates food which enters the oesophagus. A tense, resonant swelling rapidly forms in the epigastric region. The signs resemble in many respects those of acute dilatation of the stomach, but diagnosis can be made by the absence of vomiting and by the imj)Ossibility of passing a tube from the oesophagus into the stomach. Treatment.—Operation should be undertaken at once. In most cases, as soon as the abdomen is opened the stomach presents as a tense cyst which usually needs puncture before the type to which the volvulus belongs can be determined or the volvulus reduced. The opening should be sutured and the volvulus reduced. In the usual t}'pe of case (1) the posterior gastric wall presents. The operations recorded number 14, with 3 recoveries. HOUR-GLASS STOMACH (SEGMENTED STOMACH—Wolfer) In this condition the stomach is divided into cavities, as a rule two, but occasionally three or even four. It is more often met with in women than in men ; among L54 cases collected by Schomerus, 128 were in women. Etiology.—Its chief cause is gastric ulcer (Fig. 369); more rarely it results from cancer (Fig. 370); very rarely indeed it may be con- genital. A " saddle-shaped " ulcer of the lesser curvature usually produces the condition, but perigastric adhesions as the result of the ulcer may constrict the stomach or bind it to the abdominal V