912 THE PROSTATE If enlarged as a whole it becomes more spherical, and the groove between the lateral lobes is obliterated. The enlargement may be slight and hard, or very great and soft. In partial enlargements the middle lobe (i.e. that part between the mucous membrane of the bladder and the common ejaculatory ducts) is the part usually affected, and projects into the bladder as a spherical mass or as a collar sur- rounding the orifice of the urethra. Such an enlargement of the middle lobe cannot be felt per rectum, although it may attain the size of a large walnut and block the entrance of the urethra. The anterior commissure is rarely affected. (Fig. 558.) Results, (a) Effects on the urethra.—The enlarge- ment of the prostate takes place in an upward direction, owing to the resistance of the triangular ligament, and car- ries the base of the bladder with it. This produces a lengthening of the prostatic urethra, so that an ordinary catheter may not be able to reach the bladder. The total urethra may increase in length from the normal 8 in. to 12 in. The calibre of the urethra may be altered in two ways : either it may be narrowed by Fig. 558.—An enlarged prostate after pressure inwards of the removal by the suprapubic route. i n i , i i i The median lobe is particularly enlarged lateral lobes, or it affected. ma^J t>e widened by being stretched over the mass ; the latter is the more common. Deviation of the urethra may also occur from excessive enlargement of one or other lateral lobes. The shape of the prostatic urethra is frequently altered by enlargement of the middle lobe, so that it is more curved than usual, and requires the use of a catheter with a special bend. (&) Effects on the bladder.—With the increasing difficulty in expelling the urine, the muscular wall of the bladder becomes hyper- trophied ; but this change soon reaches its limit in elderly men, and is followed by dilatation of the bladder, fasciculation and vesiculation, with fibrosis of the muscle bundles. The projection into the bladder of the enlarged prostate causes the orifice of the urethra to be no longer the lowest part of the bladder, and there is the formation of