722 RECTUM AND ANAL CANAL route for liigh-lying growths, and, although the operation has been modified by many surgeons, it still bears his name. The bone is exposed by a median or slightly left lateral incision terminating a little behind the anus. Some surgeons remove the coccyx only, others a piece of the left border of the sacrum, others (following Eydygier) turn back a flap of the sacrum and coccyx, which is replaced at the close of the opera- tion. The levatores ani are divided on either side, the rectum separated by blunt dissection with as much of the perirectal tissues as possible, the peritoneal cavity opened, and the pelvic mesocolon divided piecemeal until sufficient bowel has been freed to permit approximation of the proposed site of section to the anal margin without undue tension. The further steps are modified to meet the requirements of the case. When the colon can be brought well down to the anus the best pro- cedure is to divide the rectum just above the internal sphincter muscle, and the bowel above at a point wliich will allow it easily to reach the anus ; the mucous membrane of the anal canal is removed, the bowel drawn through the sphincteric orifice and sutured to the sldn of the anal margin. If some extent of the lower bowel is healthy, this may be left and the upper cut end anastomosed to it. This is not so good a method, as it may tempt the surgeon to encroach too near to the growth; moreover, the stitches nearly always give way, and fsecal extravasation results, followed by prolonged suppuration and probably some constriction. Neither procedure may be applicable, from inability to free the upper bowel sufficiently. In such case, a perineal anus is established. The many attempts that have been made, by means of various treatments of the bowel, to gain some control over such an anus have been uniformly unsuccessful. The main arguments against all operations from the perineal aspect are these : (i) The branches of the superior hsemorrhoidal vessels are cut close to the bowel wall, that is on the distal side of the junction of the anastomotic loop between the lowest sigmoid and superior hsemorrhoidal arteries ; hence, gangrene of the transplanted bowel is liable to occur, followed by prolonged suppuration, and constriction. Similarly, if the bowel is united to the anal skin with any tension, the sutures give, the bowel retracts, and a stricture results in the healing process, (ii) Not infrequently, owing to the fact that the bowel cannot be brought to the anal margin, the operation has to be terminated by a perineal anus. This can never be foretold previously to operation. An inguinal is better than a perineal anus, (iii) Little, if any, of the mesentery of the pelvic colon is removed ; hence the glandular lymphatic drain is very imperfectly eradicated. Although some surgeons claim encouraging ultimate results from these perineal operations, the majority agree that recurrence is very frequent. Indeed, one surgeon reports recurrence within periods from