CALCULOUS ANURIA 839 and cystoscopy, may aid diagnosis. The absence of fever excludes pyelonephritis as a cause. Other forms of obstruction, such as bladder or pelvic growths, must be excluded. The history and examination readily exclude anuria resulting from advanced tuberculous disease, polycystic disease, or chronic nephritis, and the symptoms are unlike those of acute nephritis. 2. Which side is affected?—When there is a history of bilateral ureteral colic the side of the recent pain is that of the active kidney and recently blocked ureter. The abdominal muscles are rigid on the affected side. The kidney is tender and may be enlarged, and the ureter also is tender. Extensive radiographic shadows in one kidney show that this organ was previously destroyed, and a shadow in the line of the opposite ureter would indicate and localize the cause of the anuria. Catheterization of the ureter may demonstrate the affected side and the position of the stone. Prognosis.—Death occurs in 71 per cent, of unoperated cases (Legueu), usually on the tenth or twelfth day. In cases which recover spontaneously, relief is usually obtained on the fifth to the tenth day. Treatment.—Operation should be performed at the earliest pos- sible moment in all cases. The mortality rises each day the operation is delayed, from 25 per cent, before the fourth day to 42 per cent, before the sixth day. In addition, other means should be adopted to re-establish the secretion. Diuretics such as Contrexeville water, tea, theociu sodium acetate (4 gr. every four hours) combined with digitalis, should be given. Two pints of normal saline or a 2^ per cent, solution of glucose should be infused into a vein during or after the operation. A purge should be administered, and every means taken by hot packs and vapour baths to obtain a free action of the skin. The nature of the operation depends on the position of the obstructing stone, the possibility of localizing it, and the ease or difficulty with which it can be removed. It is more important to relieve the obstruc- tion quickly than to remove the calculus. Nephrotomy should be performed when the stone is localized to the pelvis, when no accurate localization has been possible, or when it has been localized to the ureter but its position would necessitate a prolonged operation for its removal. If the stone is found it should be removed ; if it is not found a large drainage-tube is placed in the renal pelvis and the kidney wound lightly packed with gauze. The obstructing calculus can be removed later. Pyelotomy or ureterotomy may be substituted for nephrotomy when the stone is readily accessible. The mortality of cases treated by operation is 46'3 per cent.