GASTRIC ULCER 353 must be placed on the history and on the chemical examination of the stomach contents. If the ulcer be malignant, induration is more marked, the peritoneum is often thickened and does not show the same rough red appearance, the lymphatic glands are enlarged and hard, and thickened lymphatics are frecjuently seen running from the growth to the glands. The preferable operation is posterior gastro-jejunostomy (seep. 406), the opening in the stomach being vertical. When possible the ulcer should be excised or infolded in addition. If gastric adhesions render the posterior operation impossible, the anterior no-loop gastro- enterostomy should be done (see p. 408). If there is any suspicion that the ulcer is malignant, a portion of its edge or an enlarged gland should be removed for rapid microscopical examination ; a gastro-jejunostomy suitable for use after partial gastrectomy should be performed, and the latter operation completed on receiving the pathologist's report. After-treatment.—As soon as the patient has recovered from the anaesthetic he should be propped up in bed and remain in a sitting position. When any ana?sthetic vomiting has ceased, feeding may be commenced. I am in the habit of ordering Benger's or Allenburys' food in preference to milk, but any form of bland diet may be given. Food should be increased cautiously; many patients develop a ravenous appetite, hwt they should be cautioned against over-eating. It is wise to put the patient on alkalis ; a powder composed of equal parts of bismuth oxycarbonate, heavy magnesium carbonate, and sodium bicarbonate, in doses of 3i three times a day, is useful. It must be remembered that prolonged supervision is necessary after operation, which, though the most important, is only the first step in the treatment. Perforation of Gastric Ulcer Among the complications of gastric ulcer, perforation is the most serious, fully 95 per cent, of the cases thus complicated terminating fatally unless treated by operation. Various figures have been given stating the percentage of cases in which perforation occurs, but all such figures, based as they are upon a diagnosis of gastric ulcer made from symptoms, are useless. The ulcer which perforates may be an acute one of a few hours' or days' duration, or a clironic one which has been in existence for many years. In many cases gastric symptoms suggestive of ulceration have been present for a considerable time. Thus, of 28 cases which have been under my care, in 16 symptoms had been present over two years, in 2 ten years, and in 1 thirteen years. In 1 case only were the symptoms of less than two months' duration (a week). X