THE KIDNEY 794 collapse are usual. The abdominal muscles are rigid, especially on the side of the movable kidney. Later, the abdomen becomes dis- tended and tympanitic. The bowels are constipated, and the tem- perature may be raised, (b) When the ureter is obstructed the kidney becomes large and tender, the urine is diminished, and there may be complete anuria. The attack lasts some hours or even days, (c) With torsion of the renal pedicle there are again acute abdominal symptoms. In addition the urine becomes scanty, albuminous, and sometimes bloody, and complete suppression may supervene. The kidney is painful, large, and tender. Polyuria may follow the attack, and the urine contains blood, and hyaline, granular, and blood casts. Diagnosis.—The following conditions may give rise to difficulty in diagnosis :— 1. A distended gall-bladder.—The presence of jaundice, the con- stantly palpable tumour, the restricted range of movement, the area of dullness blending with that of the liver, the absence of a bowel note in front of the tumour, are characteristic of the distended gall-bladder. 2. RiedeVs lobe of the liver.—The respiratory movement is the same as that of the liver, and greater than that of the kidney, the dullness is continuous with that of the liver, and the edge of the swelling is sharp. 3. Small ovarian tumour with a long fediele.—TDxis, can be reduced into the pelvis, but not into the loin ; the pedicle is attached below and can be demonstrated from the vagina. 4. Malignant growth of the intestine. 5. Scybalous masses in the intestine. In doubtful cases an opaque catheter should be passed up the ureter, the pelvis of the kidney filled with coUargol (10 per cent.), and a radiogram obtained. Treatment.—Operation is imperative—(1) where the mobility is causing disease of the kidney; (2) where the kidney is exerting harmful traction on other organs ; (3) where the kidney lies below the waist line and is uncontrolled by a mechanical apparatus ; (4) when the patient is going to reside in tropical and uncivilised countries ; (5) where the patient has to perform manual labour and cannot afford an expensive apparatus. But in most cases palliative treatment may be tried before resorting to operation. Operative treatment is likely to fail—(1) where general visceroptosis is present; (2) where there is severe neurasthenia and no symptoms can be referred to the kidney. In a few cases of movable kidney with neurasthenia, control of the renal movements by a mechanical apparatus will alleviate or cure the neurasthenia, and in these cases also operation will be followed by a similar result. Palliative treatment. 1. By rest and by increasing the body