CESOPHAGEAL MALFORMATIONS 259 The patient may be placed in the following positions during the passage of the instrument, viz. : (1) Sitting on a stool with the neck extended and head thrown well back ; (2) recumbent with the head hanging well down over the end of the operating table ; (3) lying on the side with the neck again fully extended. The tul)e is to be warmed and oiled ; it may then be introduced with a pilot bougie inserted through its lumen, but it is far safer and more satisfactory to pass the instrument by direct vision with the illuminating apparatus attached. This method obviates the risk of per- forating an ulcer just below the cricoid, or of pushing on an impacted foreign body ; it also permits the examination of the pliarynx during the passage of the tube. While the patient's head is held well extended by an assistant, the surgeon with his left hand passes the tube over the dorsum of the tongue until he sees the posterior pharyngeal wall ; he then tilts the handle upwards and continues the introduction until the upward movement is checked by the upper incisor teeth. The assistant now slightly inclines the head towards the left shoulder, without rotating Or tilting the neck, and the surgeon slips the tube into the right angle of the mouth and passes it onwards down the oesophagus. The whole manoeuvre is carried out by direct vision through the tube. MALFORMATIONS The following rare malformations may occur (Whipham and Fagge) Congenital absence of the entire oesophagus. Bifurcation of the oesophagus with union of the two divisions towards the lower end. Congenital atresia, often associated with O'sophago-tracheal fistula. Pressure pouches. Strictures due to the pressure of a valve-like fold of mucous membrane. Congenital stenosis of the lower end of the oesophagus. Only two of these conditions need be considered here, viz. con- genital atresia and congenital stenosis. Congenital Atresia. Tracheo-Q^sophageal Fistula This malformation has more of a developmental than a surgical interest, and little can be done to remedy it. Loss of continuity of the oesophagus with the pharynx, in these cases, occurs near the lower end of the trachea. There is normally a narrowing of the oesophagus about 2| in. below its origin, marking the origin of the pulmonary diverticulum. In congenital atresia the