THE INTESTINES 434 symptom of great diagnostic value. The rigidity may extend widely and cause " boarding " of the whole anterior abdominal wall, or it may be localized to a small area. Unlike the muscles of the limbs, in which if part is stimulated the whole contracts, the muscles of the abdominal wall are capable of contracting in segments; hence, in limited intestinal lesions, a correspondingly small area of rigidity is present. The best examples of this are the rigid contraction of the upper portion of one or other rectus in cases of gastric or duodenal ulcer, and the " boarding " of the muscles of the right iliac fossa in localized appendicitis. The contraction may be so well defined as to simulate a definite tumour. In perforative conditions of the intestine, the rigidity involves the whole abdominal wall, being apparently due to reflexes set up by peritoneal irritation. As a rule, in localized inflammatory conditions, the area of muscular contraction approximately overlies the inflamed viscus, but occasionally it is distant from it; for example, in some cases of pelvic appendicitis and of intussusception, the anal sphincter is in a state of spasm. Clinically, this rigidity may be detected by noting that the respiratory movements of the abdominal wall are restricted or absent in the contracted area ; and on palpation this region is firm and " boarded." The reflex muscular contraction cannot be voluntarily inhibited, and the rigid segment is the last to relax during the induction of anaesthesia. In chronic conditions in which the rigidity is of long standing, and in exceptionally acute inflammatory affections, the contraction may not be overcome even when the ansesthetic is pushed to the utmost limit of safety, the fixation of the abdominal wall adding greatly to the difficulties of the operation. In children who resist handling, it is more reliable to test the abdominal reflex. Any part of the muscle which is rigid does not twitch when the associated area of skin is stroked, as it is already in a state of contraction. Yaso-motor reflexes.—It is a common clinical experience that if the abdominal wall is incised over an inflammatory lesion—for example, a gastric ulcer—the vessels may bleed more freely than normal. This is due to a vaso-motor reflex originating at the seat of the lesion and leading to dilatation of the blood-vessels. Reflexes of peripheral origin.—The intestine may be affected reflexly by stimuli originating peripherally, its motor and secretory functions being disturbed in various directions. Thus, constipation or even complete obstruction, due to diminution or loss of peristalsis, may follow severe injuries, not only of the abdominal wall, but also of the chest, or even of the limbs. Reflexes between different parts of the alimentary