275 CARDIO-SPASM muscular hypertrophy is most noticeable; the lumen is here greatly diminished, and the mucous membrane is thrown into longitudinal folds. There is, however, no ulceration seen in this part. Such marked changes are found in tlie chronic forms of the disease. Etiology.—It is doubtful whetlier a true primary dilatation occurs irrespectively of obstruction to the cardiac orifice. In most cases the dilatation and hypertrophy are probably secondary to a narrowing of the cardia dependent on muscular spasm, which may be of nervous origin, and has been said to follow emotional dis- turbances (Sippey). This spasm may be secondary to inflammation or actual ulceration of the mucous membrane, but very often stands alone. In a case reported by Ledderhose it appeared to be caused by the presence of a polypus. Malignant growths at the cardia are often associated with spasmodic contraction of the muscular coat, but the obstruction is then dependent chiefly upon the presence of the growth itself. Cardio-spasm is, however, frequently independent of any patho- logical change in the mucous membrane, and many theories have been suggested to explain this fact. Some authorities hold that an alteration in the nerve muscular mechanism exists. Degeneration of the vagi nerve fibres which supply this part of the oesophagus has been demonstrated by Kraus. According to Rosenheim, the con- dition is due to primary action of the muscle wall, associated with disturbance of innervation. Klebs found fatty degeneration of the muscular wall. Pleimer believes that the dilatation is due to some developmental anomaly. Mikulicz, Meltzer, and Leichtenstern agree that spasm of the cardia is the cause of the dilatation, but are unable to explain the spasm. Young adults of both sexes may be the subjects of this curious condition, though females of hysterical tendencies are, perhaps, more frequently afiected. The clinical course of/the disease is suggestive of a congenital origin. The symptoms may be of long duration, and the intermittent form sometimes lasts over many years. The onset may be either sudden or gradual. The most important symptom is dysphagia. The onset is some- times acute, and for some time the patient is quite unable to swallow either solids or fluids. A stage of remission follows, with recurrence of symptoms after a variable period. The dysphagia due to mechanical obstruction differs in that it is gradual and progressive. Nothnagel points out as a characteristic sign that solid food may sometimes pass down more easily than liquids. Dysphagia is accompanied by a feeling of pressure in the thorax, and sometimes by burning pains