422 THE INTESTINES By ALEXANDER MILES, M.D.. F.R.C.S.Ed. For the purposes of this article, the intestines may be taken to include that portion of the alimentary canal which extends fi'om the termination of the duodenum at the duodeno-jejunal junction to the lower end of the pelvic colon, where it becomes continuous with the rectum. Although the duodenum belongs anatomically to the small intestine, its surgical associations are with the stomach, and are considered in the preceding article. The affections of the vermiform appendix and of the rectum are also most conveniently described elsewhere (pp. 5-37 and 658). ANATOMY The small intestine, arbitrarily divided into jejunum and ileum, is about 20 ft. in length, and with the exception of the first part of the jejunum and the terminal part of the ileum, which are fairly constant in their position, the numerous coils enjoy a wide range of mobility, and show considerable variation in their disposition. As a rule, however, the jejunum, which includes the first 8 ft. of the canal, lies towards the upper and left part of the cavity, below the level of the stomach, while the ileum, about 12 ft. in length, lies in the lower and right regions. Although there is no definite point of transition between the two portions, in the living subject the jejunum can usually be distinguished from the ileum by its greater width, its thicker and more vascular walls, its brighter colour, and the more prominent yellow lines formed by the lacteals. The valvulse conni- ventes are larger and more closely approximated in the jejunum, while the Peyer's patches are larger and more numerous in the ileum. The arcades formed by the mesenteric vessels become more numerous as we pass down the intestine, while the vessels entering into their formation become smaller (Monks). The mesentery is a double fold of peritoneum which connects the small intestine to the posterior abdominal wall along a line 6 or 7 in. in length, extending from the left side of the second lumbar