INJURIES TO THE PENIS 973 CALCULI UNDER THE PREPUCE Preputial calculi are rare, and are only found in association with marked degi'ees of phimosis. They may be single or multiple, and have been known to reach the size of a man's fist. They arise in three ways : (a) deposits of lime salts in retained smegma ; (&) deposits of urinary salts, chiefly phos- pliates from decomposing urine retained under a long prepuce; (c) bladder- stones which have passed along the urethra and are there retained by the phimosed prepuce. The condition gives rise to a purulent discharge from tlie prepuce, and the diagnosis is readily made by examination. Treatment consists in slitting up the prepuce, removing the calculi, and then circumcising the patient. SHORTNESS AND RUPTURE OF THE FR^NUM This is usually of little importance, but the frsenum may be so short that the glans penis curves downwards during erection, and so renders coitus painful. Of more importance is rupture of the freenum, a not infrequent accident during coitus, which may lead to severe hfemor- rhage, and the small wound is liable to venereal infection. Treatment.—If the frsenum is so short as to interfere with coitus, it should be divided and the artery secured. INJURIES TO THE PENIS Contusion of the penis is an uncommon accident, and usually occurs during erection. It may be due either to violent attempts at coitus, or to acts of resistance or revenge on the part of the woman. In some cases the sheaths of the corpora cavernosa are ruptured, causing so-called fracture of the penis. In the graver injuries there is severe pain, followed by great swelling of the organ due to extravasated blood, and the urethra is usually injured at the same time. Retention of urine is a common consequence. Treatment.—In the slighter injuries the treatment consists in wrapping the penis in evaporating lead lotion and waiting for the absorption of the extravasated blood. If the penis is fractured, with laceration of the urethra, the treatment is operative. The wounded part should be freely laid open, the lacerated urethra sutured, all blood- clots removed, and the sheaths of the corpora cavernosa sutured. In some cases contusion of the penis is followed by alteration in the normal erection of the penis. The part in front of the fracture remains flaccid, whilst the posterior end is rigid. This condition is due to the fibrosis that has occurred in the corpora cavernosa in the liealing of tlie lesion. This serious result is best prevented by careful suturing at the time of the accident. DISLOCATION OF THE PENIS In tliis rare accident the prepuce is torn away from its attachment to the glans penis, and the penis itself with the glans is dislocated into