1043 HYSTERECTOMY Where a solitary myoma is already in process of extrusion, and especially if it is sloughing, vaginal myomectomy should always be undertaken in preference to hysterectomy. Hysterectomy.—Most gynfecological surgeons hold that where the vaginal cervix is healthy it should be conserved. A few prefer the total operation for all cases, on the ground that the cervical stump may, if infected, cause troublesome discharge, or may develop carcinoma ; but infection is an avoidable fault of technique, and cervical carcinoma in these patients is unlikely because of their sterility. The conserva- tion of the cervix maintains the integrity of the vaginal vault, while the subtotal operation is always easier than the extirpation of the entire uterus. The following are the most important methods of per- forming hysterectomy :— Subtotal hysterectomy.—The uterus having been pulled up through a median incision, a pressure forceps is clamped on the tube and ovarico-uterine ligament with its contained ovarian vessels on each side, and a second pair is applied to the round ligaments about an inch from the uterus. The broad ligaments are now divided between the clamps and the uterus as low down as the level of tlie internal os. A flap of peritoneum on the front of the uterus is then reflected from the upper limit of its loose attachment downwards. The uterine vessels are now in view as they run up either side of the uterus. They are clamped by pressure forceps just above the point where they leave the parametrium to enter the uterus, and the latter is amputated about t| in. above this line. The uterine vessels on each side are next secured by a ligature which, transfixing the tissue of the cervical stump just within them, is carried round them and tied on their outer side. The clamped broad ligament on each side is transfixed between the forceps holding the ovarico-uterine ligament and tube and the round ligament, and the transfixing ligature divided into two : one half is used to secure the tube and ovarian pedicle with its contained ovarian vessels ; and the other, rethreaded on a needle, is inserted as a pucker- ing suture along the edge of the divided broad ligament as far as its junction with the cervical stump. The two ends of this thread are then made to encircle the round ligament and are tied together. Any oozing from the cervical stump may be stopped by one or two mattress sutures. The anterior peritoneal flap is then united to the peritoneum on the posterior aspect of the stump, and the operation concluded by closing the abdominal wound in three layers. Total liysterectomy.—The steps of the total operation are similar to those just described up to the point at which the anterior peritoneal flap is turned down. After this the bladder is gently separated by swab pressure from the supravaginal cervix, sufficiently low to expose freely the anterior vaginal wall. The vagina has now to be opened,