RECTUM AND ANAL CANAL 670 of the degree of development of the rectum. Usually, when the rectum ends in the vulva the proctodseum is absent. When the rectum ends in the prostatic urethra the proctodseum, as a rule, is absent or imperfectly developed. Generally speaking, the nearer the rectum is to the perineum the better developed is the proctodaeum, but to this there are many exceptions. Conversely, if a well-developed proctodseum be present, it does not always follow that the rectum is well developed. The symptoms depend upon the type of deformity present. When a narrowing at the junction of the postallantoic gut and procto- dseum only is present, the severity of obstruction will depend upon the tightness of the stricture. The stric- ture may be very slight, and symp- toms may be practically absent; on the other hand, obstinate constipation and abdominal distension may be pre- sent. Symptoms may be delayed for some time after birth in this variety. When there is no outlet for the meconium, abdominal distension and vomiting will be present soon after birth. Rapid wasting occurs, and, if the condition be not relieved within a few days, death ensues. When the rectum opens into the vulva the opening is often sufficient to allow the passage of meconium. Adult age has been reached with this deformity, sometimes with very little inconvenience, except constipation or recurrent attacks of subacute intestinal obstruction relieved by aperients. When the rectum opens into the urethra the outlook is far less favourable, for the opening is rarely large enough to transmit the fseces, and symptoms of intestinal obstruction in various degrees are soon evident. In a few cases, however, life has been prolonged for three or four years, but rarely longer. Treatment.—This may be considered with reference to (1) those cases in which the intestinal canal ends blindly and there is no outlet for its contents, and (2) those in which there is an outlet in an abnormal situation. 1. Immediate relief is necessary, failing which death will occur witliin a few days. The deformity is often overlooked through care- lessness for the first day or so of the infant's life, and recognized only when symptoms of intestinal obstruction appear. When relief has Fig. 491. — Postallantoic gut and proctodseum fully de- veloped, but the two cavities separated by a thin mem- brane.