CHRONIC ENLARGEMENT 915 Examination.—Examination per rectum may reveal a large soft prostate pressing baclcwards into the rectum, or a firm, slightly enlarged prostate. In both cases the enlargement is smooth and the mucous membrane of the rectum moves easily over it. One or other lateral lobe may be chiefly enlarged, but the condition of the middle lobe cannot be examined through the rectmn. Examination of the urethra with a catheter reveals an obstruction to the passage of the instrument at the entrance to the bladder. The urethra is foimd to be lengthened, and the curve of the instrument has to be altered to allow it to slip past the obstruction. The catheter is not gripped on removal, as it is by a stricture. The endoscope is not of much value in examination of the enlarged prostate, but the cystoscope will permit examination of an enlarged middle lobe, besides showing the condition of the bladder walls, the mouths of the ureters, and the presence or absence of pouches and calcidi. Residual urine is examined for by making the patient micturate until he thinks the bladder is emptied, and then passing a catheter; but several examinations are necessary, as the condition fluctuates. The condition of the kidneys can be ascertained by a careful analysis of a twenty-four hours' specimen of urine, by examining the blood pressure, the hjemo-renal index and the electrical conductivity of the urine. The urine should also be examined for pus and bacteria. General treatment.—The patient should carefully avoid all causes of prostatic congestion, such as alcoholic and venereal excess, constipation, bicycling, horseback riding, the use of highly spiced food, and the prolonged holding of the urine. He should avoid late meals, drink freely of non-alcoholic fluid, and take as much exercise as his general condition will allow. By following the rules of a regular, simple life, a prostatic patient may live for years in comfort, and avoid both catheterization and operation. Catheterization—This should only be resorted to when abso- lutely necessary, and then under strict aseptic precautions. For acute retention the catheter must be passed {see later); for chronic retention also this instrument must be employed, but the frequency of its use varies considerably. It may only be necessary to empty the bladder at long intervals (months intervening), when some slight prostatic con- gestion is present, but the frequency with which catheterization is required generally increases. A patient with a large bladder rarely has to pass the catheter more than twice a day, but if the bladder be small and spasm of the muscle be present, more frequent catheter- ization is necessary. " Catheter life," with the infrequent or regular passage of a catheter, may be lived for years with comfort, and is consistent with great bodily and mental activity.