THE OESOPHAGUS 294 By any of the modern methods in use a perfectly dry wound can be guaranteed. The results would be better still if only the operation were performed before the patient is in a state of starvation, as is only too often the case. Leakage of stomach contents after a gastrostomy operation is prevented by the formation of a valvular opening, which is constructed by one of the following methods :— (1) Inversion of a cone-shaped portion of the anterior wall of the stomach round a rubber feeding-tube, inserted through a small opening, and fixed by absorbable sutures. The cone-shaped portion is inverted, and secured either by rows of purse-string sutures, after the method of Senn or Abbe, or by means of layers of transverse sutures inserted on the Lembert principle (Kader's operation). (2) The tube is passed through a small opening in the anterior wall of the stomach, and some inches of the tube are secured in a groove formed by two ridges of the wall sutured over it (Witzel's method). In each of the above methods the stomach wall is secured to the abdominal wall by sutures. (3) The principle adopted by Frank and modified by other surgeons (viz. Kocher, Albert and Cheyne) depends on drawing up a cone-shaped portion of the stomach wall, which is fixed at its base to the opening in the abdominal parietes. The cone is then passed beneath the skin, or through the rectus muscle, and its summit fixed to the edges of a second smaller opening made either above or to one side of the original incision. By this means a subcutaneous oesophagus composed of stomach wall is formed. The opening into the stomach is finally completed a few days later. All the above methods of operation are valuable. In my experience the operation devised by Senn has given extremely good results. Leakage can be certainly avoided, the operation is very simple, and the patient can be fed immediately. Sarcoma of the (Esophagus Primary growths of this nature are very rare, but have been reported. They are either spindle- or round-celled, and are some- times pedunculated (Albrecht) They are more commonly situated at the entrance of the CBSophagus, or near the bifurcation of the trachea (Bergmann). The primary growth may lead to secondary bony metastases (Rolleston). One primary lympho-sarcoma has been reported. Secondary sarcomatous growth in the oesophagus is generally an extension from neighbouring bones or soft structures in the neck or thorax. The employment of the oesophagoscope is necessary for the correct diagnosis of this condition.