THE INTESTINES 470 emptied, as suggested by Mo}Tiihan, by opening it, and passing a straight glass tube over which long stretches of the gut may be pulled. The methods of deaUng with the various lesions which cause obstruction will be referred to later. 2. Chronic or Gradual Obstruction The freedom with which the bowel contents pass along the tube may be gradually interfered with in a variety of circumstances. In the great majority of cases, the interference occurs in the colon, and is due to mechanical causes, such as the growth of a tumour in the bowel wall slowly encroaching upon the lumen and narrowing it, the cicatricial contraction of inflammatory adhesions constricting, Idnldng, or binding down the bowel, or the pressure of an extrinsic tumour interfering with the peristaltic action of the gut or narrowing its lumen. In these circumstances, either there is no disturbance of the vascular and nervous mechanism of the affected portion of bowel, or this is a factor of secondary importance and one which only comes into play late in the progress of the disease. Sooner or later, if left alone, the interference with the function of the bowel becomes so great that symptoms of acute obstruction supervene, and in many cases the crisis comes on suddenly from some superadded complication. This phase will be considered separately, later (p. 474), as the clinical procedure is different. Pathology and morbid anatomy.—Gradual obstruction is seen in its most typical foim in malignant disease of the colon, in which, without completely occluding it, the growth gradually narrows the lumen of the bowel, either by filling it up or by cicatricial con- traction, or by a combination of these processes. In those portions of the bowel—the small intestine and the higher parts of the colon—in which the faeces are usually fluid, a very con- siderable degree of narrowing may exist without appreciable inter- ference with the onflow, and there are no secondary structural changes in the bowel of any importance, or only a moderate degree of dilata- tion. When the narrowing has progressed sufficiently to interfere with the onward passage of the contents, the segment above the seat of the obstruction becomes distended, its walls, particularly the muscular coat, are hypertrophied as a result of prolonged and repeated attempts to force the passage, and the tube becomes elongated and tortuous. Hypertrophy is most marked in the small intestine, the circular muscular fibres increasing in size and number so that the wall becomes thicker and firmer than normal (Fig. 431). In the colon, dilatation is more prominent than hypertrophy, and in some conditions may reach extreme limits, the diameter of the bowel being as much as a foot (Fig. 402).