THE BREAST the peritoneal cavity may be reached, when the pleura is already cancerous, by cancerous infiltration of the anterior portion of the diaphragm (diaphrenic invasion). Invasion of the thorax.—Breast cancer may reach the interior of the thorax in several ways, (a) Permeation may extend, by means of lymphatic anastomoses piercing the anterior end of the intercostal spaces, to the anterior mediastinal glands, and thus to the other thoracic glands and to the pleura. Fortunately this is not common, for cancerous anterior mediastinal glands are found in only 6-5 per cent, of necropsies on breast cancer, (b) The pleural cavity may be invaded by direct infiltration of the chest wall beneath the primary growth, (c) Cancerous supraclavicular glands may become adherent to the dome of the pleura. Subsequently, cancer cells infiltrate the pleura and escape into the pleural cavity. Thoracic dissemination may be delayed or prevented by the presence of old pleural adhesions. Secondary deposits in the brain.—Secondary deposits occur in the brain in about 4 per cent, of cases, and in the dura mater with about the same frequency. They may be due to blood invasion, but often they result from upward permeation along the cervical lymphatics from enlarged supraclavicular glands. Permeation and infiltration contrasted.—Some recent writers have used the terms permeation and infiltration indiscriminately, and it will be well to lay down clearly the diiierences between these two modes of spread of carcinoma, and to indicate their rela- tive importance. Infiltration (Fig. 273) In point of time, the earliest dis- seminative process. Best seen at the edge of the primary growth, as defined by the naked eye. The cancer cells are spreading along the tissue interspaces, e.g. between fat cells, or between adioining fibrous bundles. (See Fig. 273.) If infiltrating cancer cells intrude into a capillary lymphatic vessel the process of infiltration merges into that of permeation. Pekmeation (Fig. 274) In point of time, begins after infiltration. Best seen at the microscopic growing edge, which, in advanced cases, may be situated in apparently normal tissues, 6 in. or more from the apparent edge of the primary growth. The lymphatic vessels, not the lymphatic spaces, are filled up and choked by solid cords of cancer cells. The tissue inter- spaces are free from cancer cells. (See Fig. 274.) If a permeated lymphatic ruptures, the cancer cells set free may infiltrate the surrounding tissues. Thus permeation may lead to infiltration.