ABSCESS 799 PERINEPHRITIC ABSCESS A perinepliritic abscess may occur at any age, and may be primary or secondary. Men are more frequently affected than women, and the ri(;ht side more often than the left. Etiology.—The primary form may follow injury. More fre- quently it develops during the course of t3rphoid, scarlatina, measles, or pneumonia, tonsillitis, carbuncle, or even eczema. The secondary form complicates suppuration in some neighbouring organ, such as the kidney (25 per cent.), liver, gall-bladder, appendix, pelvic organs, or vertebrae. Tuberculous perinephritic abscess is especially found in tuberculous disease of the vertebrae, and is very rarely secondary to tuberculosis of the kidney. Pus from an empyema or an abscess of the lung may track through the costo-lumbar hiatus of the dia- phragm and form a perinephritic abscess. Bacteriology.—The bacteria found, in their order of frequency, are Bacillus coli, streptococcus, staphylococcus. The gonococcus and pneumococcus are rare. Pathology.—The collection is usually unilocular, but occasion- ally multilocular. It is situated outside the fibrous capsule, and may be inside or outside the perinephric fascia. In the former case the pus will spread along the ureter into the bony pelvis, while in the latter it will appear on the surface of the body over the iliac crest or pass into the iliac fossa. Four varieties are distinguished according to situation : 1. Above the kidney, or subphrenic, which is frequently connected with intrathoracic suppuration. The kidney is pushed down and may be felt below the mass. 2. Below the kidney, which tends to pass downwards to the iliac fossa and may rupture into and pass along inside the psoas sheath and appear in Scarpa's triangle, or pass into the pelvis and escape at the sciatic notch. 3. In front of the kidney, limited by peritoneum ; this is rare. It may rupture into the peritoneal cavity, bowel, bladder, or vagina. 4. Behind the kidney, a much more common variety which may pass through the lumbar muscles at the triangle of Petit. Symptoms.—When perinephritic abscess complicates some other disease the symptoms are superadded to those of the primary disease. When the perinephritic suppuration is primary the onset is usually insidious and the pain slight and insignificant. The general condi- tion of the patient is bad, and there is high remittent fever, though in rare cases the temperature is not raised. Occasionally the onset is sudden and heralded by a rigor. Pain and tenderness over the kidney become marked. The pain may radiate to the shoulder or arm, but more frequently passes downwards to the scrotum or labium. It