THE TONGUE the lupoid ulcer is a crusted sore without surrounding inflammation ; when the crust is removed a nodular or mammillated area is ex- posed, with perhaps some small caseous foci, the general colour being bluish-pink. The true ulcer, as has been explained above, occurs in very many different forms. The pure tuberculous ulcer is oval in shape, with a pale, flabby, ansemic surface, the granulations having a gHstening, watery appearance ; the edges are sloping, not everted or indurated, and rarely undermined. The anterior part of the dorsum is the usual situation of the ulcer, the margins being often involved. Occasionally, caseous areas may be seen. There is no surrounding inflammation. The above type represents the unmixed tuberculous infection ; there are also dozens of different varieties, some with induration, some with surrounding inflammation and oedema, others with a large foul sloughing surface, but no useful end is served by trying to classify these diverse appearances. Suffice it to say that in a doubtful case a careful clinical examination of the lungs and a microscopical exam- ination of the ulcer will be required to make the diagnosis clear. The adjacent set of lymphatic glands which drain the affected area are enlarged. Symptoms.—Tuberculous manifestations are usually painful when ulceration has occurred ; indeed, in some cases there is excru- ciating pain, and the misery of tuberculous disease in tliis situation may be compared to that which results from tuberculous infection of the bladder. There is a tendency to profuse salivation, and in neglected cases the mouth becomes exceedingly foul. Prognosis.—Most authorities agree in giving a very gloomy prognosis. Butlin asserts that the disease is usually fatal in from one to two years, and he goes on to say that " the patient is to be regarded as fortunate if he is relieved by rapidly progressive tuberculosis of the internal organs before the ulcer of the tongue has become larger and painful." Pcuzergues and Ducrot take a more hopeful view. If a primary lesion can be removed, or if an early secondary infection can be radically treated and the pulmonary disease checked by appropriate remedies, there is some hope of the picture being a little brighter in future. Treatment.—The main line of treatment is operative. All tuberculous manifestations should be freely excised, unless pulmonary disease or other constitutional debility is a contra-indication. The question of the wisdom of operating in the presence of active pulmonary tubercle must be left to the discretion of individual surgeons ; but if by performing a comparatively simple operation we are able to prevent the pain and suffering which the progress of the ulcer entails, we are entirely justified in pursuing that course. Even in the presence of