803 INFECTIVE PYELONEPHRITIS round lympliocyte-like cells are seen. At places the tubules and glomeruli may be destroyed by the newly formed fibrous tissue. In very advanced cases the kidney may be much reduced in size, very tough, and firmly adherent to the surrounding tissues. It may con- tain small cysts. Clinical features. (1) Acute haematogenous pyelone- phritis—The attack is often preceded by headache, lassitude, and anorexia, and by diarrhoea or by an exaggeration of habitual con- stipation. In (1 per cent, of cases there is a sudden desire to micturate, followed by great frequency and strangury lasting a few hours or a day or two. In a mild case there is a rigor followed by rise of temperature to 101° or 102°, aching in one loin, and tenderness, without enlargement, of one kidney. The urine is abundant, pale, with low specific gravity and a stale-fish odour, and bacteruria is present. The attack lasts ten or fourteen days. In a more severe attack the temperature reaches 102° or 103°, the patient is prostrate, drowsy, perhaps delirious, and suffers general abdominal pain, and also backache, especially in one loin. The diseased kidney, which, as a rule, is palpably enlarged, is intensely tender, and the abdominal muscles on that side are rigid. The urine is scanty, acid (very rarely alkaline), and contains bacteria, pus cells, blood corpuscles, tube casts, and epitlielia from the renal pelvis and bladder. The leucocyte count is 18.000 to 20,000. The Bacillus col" has been found in the blood, especially in children. After two or three weeks the acute s}Tiiptoms may subside, but may repeatedly recur owing to exacerbations in the first kidney or to fresh infection of the second kidney. The illness may last for months. Instead of pursuing a benign course, there may be repeated rigors, a high swinging temperature (106° to 107°), and death occurs in four or six weeks from the onset. In the rare fulminating cases a severe rigor and rise of tempera- ture to 104° or 106° is followed by drowsiness and coma. There are abdominal pain and rigidity, vomiting, and scantiness or com- plete suppression of urine. (2) Acute ascending pyelonephritis.—Dm-ing the course of some disease of the lower urinary organs, and usually as a sequel to instrumentation, there is a rigor with a rise of temperature to 102° or 104°. Drowsiness, apathy, and backache, more marked on one side, are frequently associated with nausea, vomiting, absolute con- stipation, and increasingly distressing hiccup. The tongue is dry, red, and glazed, and later becomes covered with brown o]- black fur ("parrot tongue"). The abdomen shows flatulent distension and rigidity, especially on one side. At first both kidneys are tender,