THE INTESTINES 514 evidence of pulmonary disease. It may, however, occur at the extremes of life. It is insidious in its onset, and for many months may merely be associated with some loss of appetite and symptoms of indigestion, slight occasional discomfort in the right iHac fossa, and the passage of blood and mucus. As time goes on, the patient loses strength and emaciates, and he suffers from frequent attacks of griping pain, coming on usually two or three hours after meals, and from alternating constipation and diarrhoea. In some cases there is frequent vomiting, which affords the patient relief. There may be localized distension of the bowel, with loud borborygmi and visible peristalsis, the intestine presenting a characteristic ladder pattern (Fig. 406, p. 472). Soone^ or later, a palpable swelUng can be detected in the right loin, the lower border being fairly well defined, while above it shades away in the colon. It is slightly mobile and tender, and jdelds an impaired note on percussion. The illness may culminate in an attack of acute obstruction. Abscesses may form, and, if they rupture externally, may cause per- sistent sinuses, or a faecal fistula. Generalized tuberculous peritonitis is a rare sequel. Diagnosis.—Compared with cancer, with which it is most liable to be confused, the progress of the disease is slow, and there is a characteristic intermission in the symptoms, which may last for one or two years before becoming urgent. In some cases tuberculosis and cancer have coexisted. The differential diagnosis from chronic lesions resulting from appendicitis is seldom difficult. It is impossible to distinguish clinically between ileo-csecal tuberculosis and fibromatosis of the colon affecting the csecal region. Treatment.-—The treatment consists in excising the caecum, and establishing a lateral anastomosis on the same lines as for cancer, and the results of tliis operation, whether performed in one or in two stages, have proved very satisfactory. If this is found to be impossible, an anastomosis may be effected between the small intestine and the colon well beyond the limits of the disease. ACTINOMYCOSIS The csecum is by far the most common seat of actinomycosis in the intestine, but the pelvic colon also is sometimes attacked. The infection takes place from the mucous membrane and spreads through the various coats to the peritoneum, and thence to the abdo- minal wall, leading to the formation of abscesses and sinuses. In the mucous membrane lining the sinuses, or in the pus that escapes from them, the ray fungus may be found. Before the disease infiltrates the parietes, the affected segment of bowel becomes greatly thickened and adherent to adjacent structures,