983 IMPOTENCE abstinence for a time from attempts at sexual intercourse, physical exercise, mental occupation, and common sense. 3. Nervous impotence.—This condition is one of irritable weakness of the sexual centres in the cord or brain, resulting in imper- fect erection of the penis, with premature ejacidation. The patients are usually neurasthenics who may not have indulged in sexual inter- course, but in other cases they have been habitual masturbators. The penis becomes erect or partially erect under the normal stimuli, but the erection passes off before intercourse can be indulged in, or the semen is ejaculated at the moment of intromission into the vagina, or even before. These patients often fear marriage because they feel they are not capable of sexual intercourse, and psychical impotence may be added to the nervous impotence. The treatment of nervous impotence is similar to that of psychical impotence. 4. Paralytic impotence.—Tliis form of impotence differs from the three previous forms in that in them erection of the penis occurs with the ejaculation of semen, but the erection is not properly used, while in tliis variety of impotence erection does not occur. It may be due to excessive indulgence, especially in the form of mastur- bation, but is more commonly due to organic disease. It may occur in certain chronic diseases such as diabetes, anaemia, phthisis, morphin- ism, in certain diseases of the brain and cord such as tabes dorsalis, general paralysis of the insane, or injury or disease of various cerebral centres. The condition may also follow atrophy of the testis from disease or loss by injury or operation, but not necessarily. Certain drugs such as alcohol, iodine, salicylic acid, and potassium nitrate can also cause diminution of the sexual powers, but the loss is usually recovered directly the use of the drug is stopped. Treatment in many cases of paralytic impotence is useless, and in others, such as those due to the use of drugs, is obvious. In all cases of impotence, self-control, with a clean, healthy mode of life and thought, is of the utmost importance, BIBLIOGRAPHY Casper, Urinary Surgery. 1911. Cooper, Astley,. Diseases of the Testis. 1830. Curling, Diseases of the Testis, 4th. ed. 1878. Eccles, W. McAdam, Imperfectly Descended Testis. 1903 Fenwick, E. H., Clinical Cystoscopy. 1904. Fuller, Diseases of the Gctiito - Urinary System. 1900. Hutchinson, Sir Jonathan, Syphilis. 1909. Jacobson, W. H. A., Diseases of the Male Organs of Oeneration. 1893. Mansell-MouUin, C. W., Enlargement of the Prostate. 1894. \ Manson, Sir Patrick, Tropical Diseases. 1907. Monod et Terillon, Traite des Maladies dn Testicule. 1889.