THE BREAST 6o The permeation theory.—Although the force of the lymph stream carries cancer cells to the axillary glands, they are there filtered off and detained. If a reflux lymph stream carries them towards the- opposite breast they are similarly filtered off and detained, near the middle line, in the meshwork of fine vessels which forms the only lymphatic communication between the opposite sides of the body. Thus the force of the lymph stream is ineffective as a means o£ general dissemination ; it is effective only within the limits of the lymphatic area in which the primary focus is situated. In whatever- direction the cancer cells attempt to leave that area, they find aa effective filter blocking the way. But they do actually succeed in leaving it, as the facts of dissemination show. An illustration wilS make clear the method by which they overcome the obstacles to their spread into other lymphatic areas. Certain bacteria, which cannot be forced through a porcelain filter, will nevertheless, if left in it for a few days, grow through its pores and infect its outer surface. In the same way, cancer cells are able to traverse the lymphatic plexuses by actually growing along the fine vessels which compose them. This process, which I have called fermeation, is the master-process of dissemination, for no barriers exist to stop its slow centrifugal pro- gress. Permeation spreads in all directions with approximate equality, independently of the direction of the lymph stream, but keeping in the plane of the main lymphatic plexus until the pressure within its- vessels forces the cancer cells up its minute tributaries to invade the adjacent layers. That is to say, in the case of the breast, the deep- fascia will be extensively invaded over a circular area of which the primary growth is the centre, while a smaller circular area of the skiiL and of the subjacent muscles will show permeation or nodular deposits. Perilymphatic fibrosis—In view of its importance it may seem strange that the process of permeation so long eluded notice. In certain situations, such as the pleura, where it is sometimes visible- to the naked eye, it had been described under the name lymphangitis carcinomatosa, but its importance remained unsuspected, and it was. regarded as a pathological curiosity. Large areas of a tissue thickly sown with cancer nodules may be examined without finding any trace of permeation. Such nodules, it was therefore argued, must have resulted from embolism; and the argument appeared conclusive until I detected the crucial fact that a lymphatic along wliich cancer cells have pushed their way does not persist unchanged. The cancer cells by their continued growth distend and finally rupture the lymphatic. An inflammatory reaction is set up, abundant round- celled infiltration occurs round the liberated cylinder of cancer cells,^ the vitality of which has been much impaired by pressure, and a capsule of newly formed fibrous tissue contracts upon and strangles