PYELONEPHRITIS: TREATMENT 805 of urinary antiseptics such as urotropine, lietraline, or helmitol, and the free use of allialis and diuretics such as theocin sodium acetate, potassium citrate, and Contrexeville water. A smart purge, followed by small doses (-nV to ^ gr.) of calomel, should be given. (b) Serum treatment.—The suitable anti-serum, usually the anti- bacillus coli serum, may be hypodermically injected in daily doses of 25 c.c. for three days, accompanied by calcium lactate in 20-gr. doses thrice daily by the mouth to prevent joint pains and serum rashes. This treatment is only suitable for acute cases, and should be abandoned if not effectual in three days. (e) Vaccine, treatment.—Graduated doses of dead bacteria are injected from autogenous cultures, or from stock vaccine if time prevents the preparation of an autovaccine. Beginning with small doses of 2 or 3 millions, repeated in four or five days, the dose rises rapidly to 10, 15, 20, 25, 30 millions, and so on to 100, 150, and 200. These injections should be made once a week ; if any reaction occurs, the doses should be reduced and a longer interval allowed. This treat- ment is only suitable for chronic cases where no complication such as growth or stone is present. {d) Operative treatment.—Only nephrotomy and nephrectomy need be considered. I have collected 20 cases of nephrotomy with 7 deaths ; these inchrde 5 personal cases, all of whom survived nephrotomy. The after-results of nephrotomy are unsatisfactory ; chronic pyelo- nephritis persists, and nephrectomy may be required later. Nephrec- tomy gives the best results in acute cases ; of 17 collected cases, all recovered. (2) Acute ascending pyelonephritis.—(a) Prophylactic mea- sures consist in rigid asepsis and the utmost gentleness in all urethral manipidations. (b) Non-operative treatment is conducted on the lines laid down for acute hsematogenous pyelonephritis (above). Sweating may be induced by a hot pack or hot vapour bath, and by hypodermic injection of pilocarpine. Suppression of urine demands rectal or intravenous infusion of glucose solution {see Anuria, p. 783). (c) Operative treatment.—This is necessary if non-operative measures fail ; it aims at two objects—removal of urinary obstruction if present, and relief of congestion and drainage of the kidney. Any unre- lieved urinary obstruction first receives attention. Suprapubic cyst- otomy rapidly performed, and the insertion of a large tube, gives the best drainage with the least shock. The obstruction can be more permanently treated later if the patient survive. For relief of the renal congestion and sepsis, the kidney should be freely incised along the convex border and a large rubber drain introduced into its pelvis ; another large drain is placed outside the kidney.