4o8 THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM jejunal flexure and a second clamp applied, care being taken that the jejunum does not become twisted longitudinally. At least 3 in. of stomach and jejunum should be in the clamps. A strip of gauze should be placed between the clamps, the stomach and jejtmum brought together, and the omentum, colon, and rest of the stomach returned to the abdomen. In performing the anastomosis four stitches are used, two of silk and two of chromic gut. The stomach and jejunum are first united by two silk stitches passing through serous and muscular coats at least 3 in. apart (Fig. 390). The thread at the patient's right is then taken, and a continuous sero-muscular stitch inserted from right to left. On reaching the left stitch it is tied off, and its end tied to the loose end of the left stitch. The viscera are opened, redundant mucous membrane is removed, and a chromic- gut stitch passed at each end of the opening through all the coats of the stomach and jejunum. The right-hand needle is then taken and a continuous stitch inserted, care being exercised to pass the needle through all the coats and to insert them sufficiently closely to stop all bleeding. This stitch is tied ofi in a way similar to that adopted for the silk. The left stitch of chromic gut is inserted continuously from left to right and tied off. After removal of the clamps the left silk stitch is taken, and the sero-muscular suture finished anteriorly. The posterior surface of the anastomosis is inspected by pulling on the gauze, and finally the opening in the mesocolon is stitched to the stomach close to the line of anastomosis. Performed in this way the residts are most satisfactory. Various modifications have been suggested and used. Mayo imites the jejunum to the stomach in such a manner that it passes to the left. This has not proved so satisfactory in the hands of other surgeons as the vertical operation described above. Anterior Gastro-Jejunostomy Tliis was the original operation performed by Wolfer in 1881. It should only be carried out when conditions render the posterior operation impossible. As usually performed it is a " loop " operation. A portion of the jejunum 18 to 24 in. from the duodeno-jejunal flexure is taken and brought up beneath and then in front of the transverse colon, and united to the anterior surface of the stomach. This loop is unnecessary and dangerous. Since 1904 I have always performed the anterior operation without a loop. This operation is, I believe, original, the nearest approach to it being the operation described by Brenner in 1891, in which the jejunum was brought to the stomach by the same route but a long loop was left. The duodeno-jejunal junction is foimd and an opening made in the transverse mesocolon and gastro-colic omentum immediately over it; a portion of jejunum