75 MAMMARY CANCER : SIGNS favourable ones for operation. Those now to be described indicate that the case, though perhaps still suitable for operation, is an unfavourable one. Shrinkage of the breast.—The whole breast in fibrotic growths becomes flattened and smaller than its fellow, owing to the conver- sion of its permeated lymphatic vessels into a network of threads of fibrous tissue. Ulceration of the growth—Adhesion of the skin is soon followed by discoloration, infiltration, and ulceration. The ulcer has a sloughy, irregular base and thickened rampart-like edges, and the skin around it is puckered and indrawn. On the average, ulceration begins two and a half years from the time when the disease is first noticed. Unless the ulcer is kept aseptic by local applications it gives rise to a thin offensive discharge, sloughs form upon its surface, and serious haemorrhage maj' occur. Many cancers are inoperable by the time ulceration begins, but this is by no means invariably the case. Pain in the breast.—It is an unfortunate fact that, as in cancer generally, pain is not an early symptom of cancer of the breast. As a rule the onset of serious pain coincides with the apjjearance of ulceration, but in rare cases pain may be absent almost throughout. It is usually described as pricking, throbbing, or stabbing in character. Tlie really severe pains of breast cancer occur in the inoperable stages, and are then associated either with supraclavicular deposits pressing upon the brachial plexus, with lymphatic cedema of the arm, or with spinal deposits, or other deposits in the bones. Nodular invasion of the surrounding skin is a very un- favourable sign, and if the nodules extend more than 2 in. from the primary growth the case should be looked upon as inoperable, for the area of fascial permeation will be too large for removal. Enlargement of the supraclavicular glands is regarded by some authorities as placing a case in the inoperable category. But if the glands are still mobile, operation should, in my opinion, be advised. The conditions which render a case of breast cancer inoperable are detailed at p. 88. Diagnosis.—It is desirable that breast cancer should be operated upon before the signs of adhesion and contraction have manifested themselves—that is to say, before the disease is clinically recognizable. This object can only be attained by exploring all doubtful tumours of the breast occurring in patients over 30 years of age. The conditions which most closely simulate breast cancer are chronic mastitis, a deep cyst, especially if surrounded by an area of chronic mastitis, a fibro-adenoma situated in an area of chronic mastitis, a gumma of the breast, and tuberculosis.