UTERINE SARCOMA 1045 side having been secured, the body of the uterus is amputated towards the tumour, the uterine vessels on that side being clamped as they come into view or spurt. The enucleation of the tumour from its bed in the base of the broad ligament is now easily effected, and the whole mass removed. The difficulty in these cases arises from the danger of htemorrhage from the uterine vessels on the tumour side. During the removal of either a cervical or a broad-hgament myoma the greatest care must be taken to avoid injuring the ureters ; this is best done by working inside the capsule of the tumour in the manner just described. ADENO-MYOMA These tumours, the " unencapsuled fibroids "' of the older writers, have only recently been generally recognized. Macroscopically they form a mass in the uterine wall underneath the mucous membrane, and blending with it ; this may be limited to one part, or may extend right round the cavity. The cut surface has a peculiar honeycombed appearance, shown by the microscope to be due to areas of tissue, exactly resembling the structure of the endometrium, embedded amongst the interlacing muscle bundles which make up the rest of the tumour. The etiology is unknown. The age-incidence and symp- toms are indistinguishable from those of myomas. The treatment is that for myomas, from which they can only be diagirosed after removal of the uterus. They cannot be enucleated. SARCOMA Sarcoma of the uterus is usually met with as a degenerative com- plication of uterine myomas, but it may occur apart from those tumours. Histologically it may belong to the round-, spindle-, or mixed-celled types, while myo-sarcoma, endothelioma, and giant-celled sarcoma are occasionally encountered. Symptoms.—^A sarcoma may appear as a rapidly growing intra- uterine polyp, wliich soon recurs after removal; at other times it forms a large nodular tumour resembling a myoma, but differing from it in its rapidity of growth, its fixity, and the presence of peritoneal fluid. In either case uterine haemorrhage is likely to be marked. Diagnosis.—The malignant nature of polypoid sarcoma has often been overlooked from failure to investigate microscopically the tissue removed. When a large mass can be felt from the abdomen a diagnosis of myoma may be made and operative treatment postponed under this error. The rapidity of growth and the signs of ascites should awaken suspicion. Sarcoma of the cervix is very rare. A peculiar form is occasionally seen in young children, in which the surface of the mass is studded with numerous elevations (grape-like sarcoma). In adults it most commonly