I024 THE UTERUS The immediate mortality is somewliat lower than that of the radical abdominal operation, but the convalescence is protracted, the deep hole which is left taking weeks to granulate up, and frequently sloughing badly. Radical abdominal hystero-vaginectomy (Wertheim's operation).—This operation aims at removing the uterus, together with the upper third or half of the vagina, in such a way that the cervix is encapsuled by the latter, across which a clamp has been placed before amputation. Together with the uterus are also re- moved the appendages, broad ligaments, and as much as possible of the pelvic cellular tissue and regional glands. Standard of Oferability.—So long as the growth has not extensively involved the bladder or rectum, or absolutely fixed the uterus in the pelvis, its removal is possible by this method. That the cervix cannot be pulled down is of no moment, if it can be pushed up. It is often impossible to be certain that the fixation of the uterus is due to carcinomatous infiltration, because similar physical signs may be produced by the chronic salpingitis which commonly accompanies advanced growth. In estimating the degree of involve- ment of the bladder or ureter, the cystoscope may prove useful. In cases of doubt, examination under an ansesthetic is advisable, and if the possibility of eradication is still undecided the abdomen should be opened and the condition explored from above. By Wertheim's method between 60 and 75 per cent, of all the cases seen are operable, according to the views of the individual surgeon. The O'peration.—The growth, if foul or fungating, is first thoroughly scraped and cauterized. The abdomen is then opened, either imme- diately or a couple of weeks later, and the ovarico-pelvic and round ligaments on either side are ligatured and divided at the pelvic brim. The peritoneum is now incised across the front of the uterus at the limit of its loose attachment, and by swab pressure, aided by cautious snips, the bladder is pushed off the supravaginal cervix and the upper inch of the anterior vaginal wall. The ureter of one side is now felt for as it runs in close attachment to the posterior peritoneum of the broad ligament, and its direction onwards having been ascertained, the uterine artery is sought outside this line, is lifted by pressure forceps, and is divided and ligatured as far outwards as possible. By tracing the distal portion of this vessel inwards the point at which it crosses the ureter is attained. From this point onwards the ureter is separated up to its entry into the bladder. Care must be taken not to injure the periureteral sheath. The other ureter is then similarly treated. The uterus being pulled well forwards, the peritoneum at the bottom of Douglas's pouch is incised and the rectum separated from