398 THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM in patients taking antisypMlitic remedies by tlie mouth, and that gastric syphilis is a late manifestation. Treatment.—The usual antisyphilitic remedies should be given. If pyloric or cardiac stenosis is present, unaffected by drugs, gastro- jejunostomy or gastrotomy must be undertaken. PLASTIC LINITIS (CIERHOSIS OF STOMACH; FIBRO- MATOSIS OF STOMACH—Alexis Thomson) This rare disease, first named cirrhosis of stomach by Andral in 1845, was accurately described by Brinton in 1859. It is characterized by a dilluse fibrous thickening usually starting at the pyloric region, chiefly involving the submucous coat, and diminishing the capacity of the stomach. Writers are by no means agreed that this condition is a clinical entity, but there seems to be no doubt that, although rare, such a condition exists. Definite cases have been recorded by Osier, Leith, Sheldon, and Jonnesco. It may be impossible, even after microscopical examination of the stomach or, in most cases, of the enlarged lymphatic glands, to say if the condition is simple (plastic linitis) or malignant (diffuse scirrhus carcinoma), for the section exam- ined may show no sign of malignancy, but secondary deposits of car- cinoma may be present in the liver; or the after-course only may render the diagnosis certain. I have had 4 cases under my care; in 3 the section of the stomach wall showed no sign of malignancy, but in one of these secondary growths were present in the liver, and in another the after-progress left no doubt that the growth was malignant. The causation of the condition is obscure when those cases secondary to diffuse atrophic carcinoma are excluded. It is a disease of adult life more common in men than in women. The stomach is of normal size or contracted ; it may be freely mobile or fixed by adhesions ; externally it presents a peculiar pearly-white appearance. On section it is found to be of diminished capacity, and all its coats stand out {see Fig. 386). The thickening chiefly affects the submucous coat, which is many times the normal thickness. The mucous membrane is not usually affected. The change is, as a rule, most marked in the pyloric region. Symptoms.—As pointed out by Brinton, the condition may be found after death, no symptoms having been produced during life. It is a disease of insidious onset, with pain and vomiting. The patient loses weight, and a tumour is usually found extending from under the left costal margin. Rarely, free fluid may be present in the peritoneal cavity. Free HCl is usually absent from the gastric con- tents after a test meal. Diagnosis.—This should be suggested by a tumour under the