989 URETHRAL CARUNCLE KRAUROSIS VULViE This condition was first described by Briesky. In tlie early stage multiple red patclies are seen around the vaginal introit and on the vestibule. The urethra is usually carunculous. Microscopically, the red patches consist of massive aggregations of plasma cells with many dilated capillaries. The epithelium over them is thinned. Later, shrinkage occurs around the introit, while the whole vulva becomes atrophic and its inner surface smooth and shiny. Great soreness and dyspareunia are early symptoms ; later the dyspareunia may also be experienced by the male. The disease is very intractable. In the earlier phases sedative ointments may be tried. Dyspareunia or other distress is best treated by dissecting out the diseased area and at the same time performing a plastic operation to enlarge the vaginal orifice (p. 993). Recurrence is common. URETHRAL CARUNCLE A urethral caruncle appears as a bright scarlet " cockscomb-like " protuberance from the posterior edge of the urethral orifice. Occasion- ally, however the whole orifice may be carunculous without localized protrusion. The formation is entirely inflammatory, and microscopic- ally presents the features of a massive plasma-cell aggregation (plas- moma) intermixed with lymphocytes. Its colour is due to numbers of dilated thin-walled capillaries. Embedded in its deeper parts may be found elements of the urethral glands. The condition usually occurs in elderly women, and frequently in association with kraurosis, to which disease it bears a definite histological relation ; but it is occasionally seen in the young. The symptoms are those of great sore- ness, dysuria, dyspareunia and occasional bleeding, but sometimes a caruncle may inexplicably cause no symptoms. The caruncle should be snipped off with scissors and its base well burned with the cautery. Recurrence is extremely likely ; if this happens, the lower end of the urethra should be dissected free and removed, and the cut edge of the upper portion sutured to the vestibular mucosa. ABSCESS OF THE VULVA The labia majora are occasionally the seat of boils or carbuncles. Suppuration may also occur in one of the numerous glands of the lesser lips. The commonest form of vulval abscess is that of Bartholin's gland at the vaginal introit. Primary infection of this gland is common in gonorrhoea, but may also be due to non-venereal pyogenetic cocci. Frequently a retention cyst of the gland has preceded the infection. Redness, swelling and pain appear in the neighbourhood of the gland, and pus eventually points on the inner surface of the swelling. Where the condition is complicated by previous cyst formation, a persistent