PERITONEAL AFFECTIONS 579 MESENTERIC CYSTS Apart from hydatids, the origin of mesenteric cysts is obscure. They are usually unilocular, contain clear or milky fluid, and may attain a very large size. Possibly traumatism accounts for a certain number of the cases, though it is more likely that the injury merely calls attention to a cyst which had previously caused no symptoms. The presence of a freely movable painless tumom- is usually all that the clinical picture presents, though indefinite pain or intestinal dis- tm'bance may call attention to the disease. The diagnosis is usually only made with any certainty by exploratory operation. Treatment.—Removal by means of an incision through the over- lying mesenteric peritoneum, with due regard to the position of the intestinal blood-vessels, is the most satisfactory method. When the cyst cannot be so shelled out without risk of damage to the blood supply of the overlying or adjacent intestine, it may be brought up to the abdominal wound and 02:)ened, the lips of the incision in the cyst being sutured to the abdominal wall and a tube or gauze drain inserted. ///. ASCITES Any non-inflammatory collection of serous fluid in the peritoneal cavity is called ascites. It is the result of such circulatory disturbances as arise from cardiac or pulmonary disease ; from portal obstruction of hepatic origin, such as cirrhosis ; or from renal disease. It is there- fore not a disease of the peritoneum, but a secondary transudation of fluid into the peritoneal cavity symptomatic of disease elsewhere. Its symptoms and treatment will therefore be found dealt with in tlie various articles devoted to those causes. For chylous ascites, see under Lymphatic System, Vol. III. BIBLIOGRAPHY Box, C. R., Lancet, March 26, 1910. Box and Eccles, Clinical Applied Anatomy. London, 1900. Buxton and Torrey, Joum. of Med. Research, xiv. 5. Durham, H. E., Mrd.-Chir. Trans., London, Ixxx. 191. Dudgeon and Sargent, Bacteriology of Peritonitis. London, 1905. Gohn, A., Wicn. klin. Woch., 1904, xvii. 207. Lennander, Mittheil. Grenz., 1902. MacCallum, Johns Hopkins Hosp. Bull., 190,3, xiv. von Mikulicz, Cavendish Lecture. 1904. Muscatello, Virchours Arch., cxlii. Ramstrdm, Inaug. Dissert., Wiesbaden. Veillon and Zuber, Arch, dc Med. Exper., Jidy, 1898.