THE BREAST 36 their growth either (a) imitate the normal gland tissue, forming new acini and ducts, accompanied by supporting connective tissue (adenoma), or (b) grow out in a disorderly manner, sometimes pre- serving for a time their tubular arrangement (adeno-carcinoma), but later penetrating the basement membrane and then infiltrating other tissues (carcinoma and duct carcinoma). If the cells grow into the lumen of a duct they may similarly (a) form a regularly organized simple papilloma (duct papilloma), or (6) form an irregular mass of cells which ultimately breaks through the wall of the duct and infiltrates the tissues beyond (duct carcinoma). FIBRO-ADENOMA^ This simple tumour consists of an encapsuled mass of fibrous tissue containing tubes or spaces lined by epithelium. A large majority of the simple tumours of the breast are fibro-adenomas. When the term fibro-adenoma is used alone, the ordinary or hard fibro-adenoma is meant. This will be first described, and afterwards the rare soft variety will be considered. Fibro-adenomas may be single or multiple, and may present themselves in one breast or in both. They are very rare in the male breast. The smallest examples are of microscopic dimensions, while the largest may be 3 in. or more in diameter, en- larging the breast and forming a considerable part of its bulk. Usually they do not exceed the size of a hen's egg. They most commonly affect the neighbourhood of the nipple and the axillary tail of the breast. Their outline is sometimes obscured by a surrounding area of coarse granular induration due to local chronic mastitis, probably caused by obstruction of some of the ducts by the tumour. Etiology.—Nothing certain is known with regard to the causation of these tumours. Among 100 cases of fibro-adenoma observed by Bryant, 27 were first discovered between puberty and the age of 20 ; 35 between 20 and 30 ; 22 between 30 and 40 ; 13 between 45 and 50 ; and 3 after 50. Forty-six of the patients were unmarried, 37 fruitfully married, and 15 married but sterile. In reference to these figures, it must be noted that a small tumour in the breast may remain undiscovered for years, and it is probable that nearly all fibro-adenomas arise between puberty and 30 years of age ; they do not occur before puberty. They sometimes respond by increased growth, after remaining stationary for years, to the stimulus of pregnancy. In a case of Erichsen's a fibro-adenoma the size of a walnut, after persisting unchanged for eighteen years, assumed the characters of a soft fibro-adenoma, and rapidly grew until in six months it weighed 5 lb. Such cases suggest the origin of sar- coma from fibro-adenoma, a question which will be again referred to. ^ See also Vol. I., pp. 432 et seq.