OPERATION FOR HARE-LIP 135 cleft or the cutting of a good-sized flap or flaps ; (4) the accurate suturing of the raw surfaces. 1. The free liberation of the lip is the first and most important step in the operation, for unless this be thoroughly and systematically carried out, coaptation without tension will be impossible. In uni- lateral cases the lip on the outer side of the cleft should be raised with the fingers, and the mucous membrane divided with a sharp knife at its junction with the gum. The handle of the scalpel is then used to detach the lip and cheek from the bone, care being taken to stop the dissection short of the infra-orbital foramen lest the infra- orbital nerve be damaged. If the ala of the nose is flattened in the slightest degree, it must be freed from the subjacent bone at the same time. Provided the tissues are torn and not cut from the maxilla, the haemorrhage is very slight and can easily be controlled by pressure. When the outer portion of the lip has been sufficiently mobilized, the inner margin and the columella of the nose, if at all displaced, are freed in a similar manner. 2. The next step consists in so shaping the nostril as to make it harmonize with that of the opposite side. Needless to say, this is only necessary when the hare-lip is a complete one, as the contour of the nose is seldom altered in the partial variety. To commence with, a straight, sharp needle threaded with a salmon-gut suture is entered at the lower end of the naso-labial groove, and carried inwards and downwards to emerge at the junction of the nostril with the outer margin of the cleft. It is then passed in an upward direction from the inner margin of the cleft, through the base of the nasal septum, into the opposite nostril. The parts are now approximated, and, if the deformity has been properly corrected, the ends of the suture are secured with split shot after the edges of the Up have been pared. In many cases this simple procedure produces the desired result, but occasionally the cartilage of the ala becomes so folded upon itself as partially to block the aperture. In such cases a large V-shaped piece may be excised, as depicted in Fig. 306, or a flap of mucous membrane can be turned up and the redundant cartilage bodily removed ; or a por- Method of rec- tion of the ala may be excised (by an incision that tifying infolded ff)llows the naso-labial groove), and re-attached to excision the lip and cheek with a few fine sutures. Though °? V-shaped , ^ .„ . r 1 1 • -1 piece of mucous the rectincation of the ala nasi appears smiple membrane and enough in theory, in practice a perfect result is cartilage. seldom obtained. 3. The paring of the margins of the cleft or the shaping of -flaps is accomplished with a pointed, sharp, narrow-bladed scalpel, in