556 THE APPENDIX recognizable symptoms or to involvement in tlie necrosis of the appendix. Innocent tumours are mere pathological curiosities. Up to 1906 Rolleston and Lawrence Jones found 42 undoubted records of primary malignant growth starting in the appendix, of which 37 were carcinoma, 3 endothelioma, and 2 sarcoma. The size varied from that of a pea to that of a marble, and in nearly half the cases the growth was situated in the distal third of the appendix. Metastatic growths are recorded as having been present in only 12 per cent. The average age of the patients was—for the carcinomas 30'6 years, for the endotheliomas 30"3 years, and for the sarcomas 39 years, the average being thus lower than that for carcinoma in other parts of the intestinal tract by 17 years. The commonest type is represented by a small, white, firm growth consisting of polyhedral or spheroidal cells showing an alveolar arrange- ment, and often exhibiting vacuolation. The commoner type of car- cinoma of the appendix differs, therefore, from the common type of carcinoma of the alimentary canal elsewhere in being spheroidal- celled instead of columnar-celled. These spheroidal-celled growths are also comparatively benign in their cUnical character. In no case was a diagnosis made before operation, and the reasons which led to the operation were either symptoms of acute, chronic, or recurrent appen- dicitis, symptoms referable to the female pelvic organs, or persistent fistula following abscess in the right ihac fossa. Secondary involvement of the appendix in malignant growths of the caBCum and other parts is less uncommon. In a series of 3,770 autopsies mentioned by Kelly, there was not a single example of primary tumour of the appendix, but there were 11 cases in which the organ was secondarily involved in malignant growth—10 times by carcinoma, and once by sarcoma. TUBERCULOSIS While the appendix is not infrequently involved secondarily in tuberculous disease arising in the ileo-csecal region, or from a tuber- culous ovary or Fallopian tube, it is rarely the primary seat of the disease ; even then it gives rise to no symptoms by which it can be recognized cHnically. In 2,000 autopsies upon patients who had died of tuberculosis, Fenwick and Dodwell found 17 cases in which the intestinal ulceration was limited to the appendix. ACTINOMYCOSIS Abdominal actinomycosis is most often found in the csecal region, and in several reported cases there is no doubt that the appendix waa