1049 CHRONIC HYDROSALPINX The pus, if secondarily infected by organisms from the bowel, may he very fetid. It is an interesting fact, however, that the pus is often sterile, the bacteria having perished from prolonged sequestration. 2. Chronic hydrosalpinx.—The abdominal ostium of an inflamed tube becomes occluded in one of two ways. In the first, adhesion takes place between the fimbriae and the adjacent ovary or broad ligament. In the second, the oedema of the muscular coat causes the tubal peri- toneum gradually to overfold the fimbriae so that they appear to indraw until they disappear altogether, and the peritoneal surfaces adhere over them. The occlusion soon loads to accumulation in the tube of the secretion from its walls. A pyosalpinx or hydrosalpinx is thu s formed. In the latter case the accumulated fluid is clear in colour and odourless. A hydrosalpinx as- sumes the same general curve as a pyosalpinx, but even more markedly be- cause, as a rule, it is less tethered by adhe- sions. (Fig. 609.) It may attain a large size, and is surrounded more or less by ad- herent omentum and pig. 609.—Uterus with large hydrosalpinx bowel. Both tubes attached, are usually affected. A hydrosalpinx may intermittently discharge through the uterine ostium, and may on occasions undergo axial rotation, producing symptoms like those of a twisted ovarian cyst. Tubo-ovarian cyst.—For reasons already stated, the ovary adjacent to a hydrosalpinx frequently contains follicular cysts. Sometimes a cyst in the ovary communicates with the tube, the whole forming a very characteristic retort-shaped swelling. The history and symp- toms of a tubo-ovarian cyst are the same as those of a hydrosalpinx. .3. Chronic fibrotic salpingitis.—In many cases of chronic salpingitis the inflammatory changes are most marked in the substance of the tube wall, and there is comparatively little exudation into its lumen. The tubal plicae become much liypertrophied, and the epithelium covering them tends to dip downwards, forming many crypts, and therefore presenting an adenomatous appearance under the micro- scope (Fig. 610). The wall becomes greatly thickened, at first by cell