518 THE INTESTINES has the same appearances as the peptic ulcer of the stomach or duodenum (p. 344). The presence of a peptic ulcer should be suspected when symptoms similar to those for which the gastro-enterostomy was performed recur after the operation. This may happen within a few days, or not for many months. In some cases perforation has been the first evidence of the presence of an ulcer. Treatment.—If medical measures fail, and if the hyperacidity persists, it may be necessary to enlarge the gastro-enterostomy opening, if this has contracted or is not sufficiently large, or to perform a gastro- enterostomy by the Y-method, implanting the proximal limb of the Y into the stomach, so that the bile and pancreatic secretions are mixed with the gastric juice before it reaches the jejunum (H. J. Paterson). Typhoid Perforation It has been estimated that perforation of an ulcer occurs in about 2| to 3 per cent, of cases of typhoid fever. This complication usually arises during the second or third week of the fever, in patients who are under treatment for a severe attack, but it may be delayed until the patient is in the convalescent stage, or it may even occur in mild and " ambulant " cases and be the first manifestation of the disease. The ulcer which perforates is usually situated in the lower end of the ileum, within 2 or 3 ft. of the ileo-csecal junction. Occasionally more than one iilcer perforates. The opening may be no larger than a pin's head, and is only dis- covered when some flaky lymph is removed from the serous covering of the bowel. When sloughing of the wall of the gut has taken place, the opening may be of considerable size. It is usually on the convex side of the bowel, where the blood supply is least. Clinical features.—Perforation is most frecjuently met with in young adult males, but it may occur at all ages, and in both sexes. In patients who are seriously ill with general symptoms of typhoid fever the diagnosis of perforation is often extremely difficult, but if there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that the bowel has given way, an exploratory incision should at once be made. Experi- ence abundantly proves that success largely depends on the shortness of the interval between the occurrence of perforation and the opera- tion for its closure. The symptoms that suggest perforation are the sudden onset of acute pain referred to the umbilicus or to the right lower half of the abdomen, with tenderness on pressure, and muscular rigidity, most marked in the right lower quadrant of the abdomen. There is nausea and vomiting, and other symptoms of acute infective peritonitis soon supervene.