SPERMATIC CORD 952 The treatment of secondary hydrocele is that of the primary condition, but in the case of hydrocele secondary to syphilitic orchitis tapping or radical cure may be necessary. Primary Hydrocele The primary form of hydrocele may be acute or chronic. Acute primary hydrocele due to an acute vaginalitis is rare, but cases have been described of acute pneumococcic and acute septic infection of the tunica vaginalis, with effusion of inflammatory lymph into the tunical cavity; and it is possible that acute rheumatic vaginalitis occurs. Chronic primary hydrocele may also be due to a chronic vaginalitis such as tuberculous infection of the tjinica, which is most common in children, and is frequently associated with tuberculous peritonitis ; but the pathology of the common vaginal hydrocele is unknown, and it will be described under the title of primary idiopathic hydrocele. 1. Primary Idiofathic Hydrocele of the Tunica Vaginalis Two views are held as to the causation of this disease : (1) that it is secondary to a chronic inflammation of the testis or epididymis ; (2) that it is a passive effusion into the cavity of the tunica vaginalis from unknown causes. Of these two views the latter is the one most generally held by English surgeons, while the former is favoured by French surgeons. The condition is most frequently met with in elderly patients, and especially in Europeans resident in the tropics, but it may occur at any age. A preceding or accompanying history of inflammation of the testis or epididymis is unusual, the patient rarely giving any cause for the disease. Pathological anatomy. Fluid.—The usual amount of fluid in a hydrocele is about half a pint, but occasionally hydroceles are seen containing quarts of fluid. The fluid closely resembles blood serum ; its specific gravity is about 1022, and it contains about 6 per cent, of albumin, the fluid becoming solid on boiling. It is generally straw-coloured, but may be brownish from admixture of blood, or may sparkle from the amount of cholesterin in it. It contains fibrinogen, and therefore coagulates on the addition of blood or other source of fibrin ferment. Tunica vaginalis.—The tunica vaginalis even in old-standing cases may be simply thinned owing to the pressure of the fluid, and show no other feature. On injection with soft paraffin, long finger- like processes may sometimes be seen projecting into the connective tissue of the scrotum. In other cases thickening of the tunica occurs.