THE BREAST 30 with active manifestations of the disease in other regions—a fact which is of great assistance in diagnosis. A gumma presents itself as a firm and even hard tumour, fixed in the breast, painless, palpable with the flat hand, and sharply defined from the surrounding tissues. It soon becomes adherent to the skin and to the underlying pectoral fascia. The adherent skin may present the feau d'orange appearance. Retraction of the nipple may be present if the tumour is subareolar. Up to this stage the diagnosis from carcinoma depends chiefly upon the history, and upon the presence of other syphilitic lesions. Soon, however, the adherent skin over the tumour becomes tliinned and congested, and a central area of softening appears in the hard tumour. The skin now gives way and a puriform discharge escapes. The ulcer thus formed may present the characters of a typical gummatous ulcer with a sloughy base. Occasionally a massive slough is thrown off, and the ulcer spontaneously heals. The glands in the axilla do not, as a rule, become enlarged unless secondary infection occurs through the ulcer. Treatment is an important means of confirming a pro- visional diagnosis of gumma. In rare cases, diffuse unilateral indura- tion of the breast has been observed comparatively early in the secondary stage of sypliilis. Treatment.—The only treatment required is the regular and vigorous administration of potassium iodide, beginning with 5 or 10 gr. thrice daily, and increasing the dose to 20 or even 30 gr. The induration rapidly and completely disappears. If the gumma is ulcerated a mild mercurial ointment should be applied. HEMATOMA OF THE BEEAST This condition is not often seen, and is usually due to a blow. The rapid appearance of a traumatic swelling, associated after a day or two with cutaneous ecchymosis, and its disappearance within two or three weeks, are characteristic points. The swelling may correspond in outline to the sector-shape of a single mammary lobe, or of several adjacent lobes. Hsematoma may follow an operation for the removal of a simple tumour, unless the cavity left is carefully obliterated. Treatment.—The breast should be strapped, or at least sup- ported in a sling, and manipulation must be avoided. In view of the fact that trauma is a possible cause of malignant disease, a short prophylactic course of X-rays may be advisable. If a swelling remains after the lapse of some weeks, an exploratory incision must be made. ELEPHANTIASIS In tropical countries, in one case in 690 of elephantiasis, the disease affects the breast. The breast becomes enormously and uniformly enlarged, and the skin over it thick, leathery, and pitted