BAGTERIURIA 783 Treatment of anuria.—Hysterical anuria is treated by bromides; valerian, etc. Diuretics sliould be administered, and care exercised to prevent fraudulent disposal of any urine that is passed. Circulatory anuria is treated by raising the blood pressure by means of stryclinine, ergot, adrenalin, and pituitary extract, and by saline infusion. In reflex anuria the cause of the reflex inhibition should be removed (see Calculous Anuria, p. 837, and Pyelonephritis, p. 801). In infective anuria it may be necessary to incise one or even both kidneys (see Pyelonephritis). Sudden relief of long-established severe obstruction, as, for example, the complete emptying of a chronically over-distended bladder in a case of enlarged prostate, should be avoided. The following measures should be adopted in cases of anuria: Diuretics are administered such as caifeine (5 gr.), diuretin (10 gr.), theocin sodium acetate (5 gr.), hot Contrexeville water, and citrate of potash (15 gr.). Hot fomentations and poultices are applied over the loins, or the kidneys may be dry-cupped. The patient is placed in a hot pack or a vapour bath. In severe cases the introduction of one to two pints or more of glucose solution (2\ per cent.) into a vein has a powerful diuretic effect. In urgent cases a pint of glucose solution (25 per cent.) is infused into a vein. This solution is hypertonic and increases the molecular content of the blood. In less urgent cases the injection may be given subcutaneously or intramuscularly, or introduced into the rectum. Jeanbrau recommends an isotonic solution of glucose (47 grm. per 1,000), or of saccharose or lactose (90 grm. per 1,000). BAGTERIURIA (BACILLURIA) Bacteriuria (bacilluria) is a condition of the urine in wliich bacteria are present in so great abundance that they render the fluid cloudy to the naked eye, yet inflammatory products are almost or entirely absent. Bacterial growth is excessive, and reaction minimal. Bacteriuria is found in infants and children, as well as in adults. Women are more frequently aft'ected than men. Pathology.—The Bacillus coli is present in pure culture in over 80 per cent, of cases. The bacillus of typhoid is next most frequent; less frequent are the Staphylococcus albus, the Proteus vulgaris, the Streptococcus, and the Bacillus subtilis. Tliese bacteria are usually present in pure culture. Bacteriuria may arise spontaneously, or it may complicate some urinary disease. In spontaneous cases a history of constipation or indigestion can usually be obtained, and pronounced pliosphaturia may precede the bacteriuria. Other predisposing causes are chronic septic conditions of the mouth and throat, operations upon the rectum or anus, boils or carbuncles, appendicitis, and dysentery. Tyjihoid fever jji-ecedes the typhoid form, and other fevers, such as smallpox, dij)htheria, scarlet fever, and measles, may be accompanied by bacteriuria. Bacteriuria may supervene during the course of chronic prostatitis or seminal vesiculitis, or it may immediately follow the passage of a sound or catheter. The bacteria gain admission to the urinar}' tract through the kidneys (hsematogenous infection), or may be introduced into the urethra or bladder by instrumentation, or may ascend from the urethral opening in women and female children (urinary or ascending infection). The state- ment that they may pass directly through the rectal and bladder walls is unsupported by direct evidence. In uncomplicated cases, post-mortem