VISCERAL PAIN 303 gastric or duodenal ulcer, the sudden onset of symptoms of an abdo- minal catastrophe is the first indication of alimentary disease. The course of the disease must be as carefully investigated, and the occurrence of complications inquired for. In some cases, par- ticularly in chronic ulcers of the duodenum, and less often in chronic gastric ulcers, the symptoms intermit and there are periods of perfect health. It must never be forgotten that " dyspepsia " may be caused by disease of neighbouring organs, particularly the gall-bladder and bile-ducts, and appendix, by direct involvement or reflexly. It should also be remembered that although for anatomical reasons the diges- tive tract is split up into separately named portions, physiologically it is a whole, each part of which is dependent for its efficient working on the health of the others. Hedblom and Cannon have shown experimentally on cats that irritation of the colon or caecum retards the discharge of food from the stomach. Pain and tenderness.—It is universal laiowledge that pain in the epigastric region after food is a symptom of interference with the normal fxmctions of the stomach. The causation of this pain in disease of the stomach and duodenum, however, is a matter for dis- cussion. Considerable research on the sensibility of the viscera has been carried out since Lennander's pioneer work appeared in 1901. The stomach and intestines are insensitive to those stimuli which cause pain when applied to the surface of the body ; they can be cut or burnt without the patient evincing any sign of discomfort. It is evident, therefore, that the afferent nerves of the stomach require for their excitation stimuli different from those of the skin. The parietal peritoneum was considered by Lennander to be sensitive ; this has been shown by Ramstrom to be due to the rich plexus of nerves in the subserous tissue. These nerves are branches of those which supply the muscles of the abdominal wall, and are beset with Pacinian corpuscles. The sensibility of this layer is that form named by Head and the present writer " deep." According to Lennander and his followers, visceral pain is due in all cases to stimulation of the parietal peritoneum as the result of direct pressure, traction upon mesenteries, or inflammation. That other factors must come into play is evident. The most severe ab- dominal pain is associated with irregular muscular contractions in hollow organs, due to irritation or obstruction (colic). In these cases it is difficult to believe that it is due to pressure on the parietal peritoneum or traction on mesenteries, and observation upon ex- posed portions of intestine in breaches of surface of the abdominal wall has proved this view to be incorrect. Henry Head and the present writer showed that ice-water and