865 TUBERCULOUS CYSTITIS Vesical tuberculosis secondary to unilateral renal tuberculosis may disappear after nephrectomy. When the disease is secondary to tuberculosis of the seminal vesicle or prostate the prognosis is unfavourable. Diagnosis.—The spontaneous development of subacute cystitis in youth or early adult life should raise the suspicion of tuberculosis. The appearance of the urine, the discovery of the tubercle bacillus, and the result of inoculation of animals are important in diagnosis. Tuberculous disease may be found in the genital system or elsewhere in the body. The cystoscope shows discrete greyish-yellow opacjue tubercles or deep tuberculous ulceration. Changes at the ureteric orifice and grouping of tuberculous inflammation round it show disease of the corresponding kidney. Treatment.—Tuberculous cystitis secondary to vmilateral renal tuberculosis generally diminishes or disappears after neplu-ectomy. In other cases further or different treatment is necessary. General treatment.—Residence in a warm, dry climate, such as Egypt, Algiers, the French or Italian Riviera, has a very bene- ficial influence. The food should be plain and nourishing ; highly spiced foods and alcoholic drinks should be avoided. If the infection is mixed, urinary antiseptics should be used, but in pure tuberculosis they have no effect. Guaiacol (.5 minims in a capsule thrice daily), cacodylate of soda (|-1 gr. hypodermically), and disodium metliyl arsenate (J gr. hypodermically) have been recommended. Sandal- wood oil is useful for its sootliing effect, and belladonna and hyos- cyamus for reducing the spasm of the bladder. Tuberculin should be given in all cases, and very striking results are frequently obtained. Pain, frequency, and irritability diminish, tlie Ijlood disappears from the urine, and the patient increases in body weight. When the bladder alone is affected the tuberculous process may disappear completely. When the cystitis is secondary to renal tuberculosis, marked improvement is observed in early cases, but relapses occur. In genito-urinary tuberculosis the results are less favourable, but amelioration of the symptoms may be antici- pated. The treatment should begin with small doses (to'oo mg- T.R.) and be very slowly increased b)^ weekly injections to joVo mg- The treatment extends over one or several years. Local treatment.—I am opposed to local treatment by means of bladder-washing and instillations. Temporary improvement is observed in many cases, but septic complications almost invariably supervene. The following local treatment has been used : The bladder is washed with boric acid, and otlier solutions containing antipyrin or opium to scothe pain. Instillations of drachm have been given with Guyon's syringe : corrosive sublimate (1 in 10,000 up to 1 in ■id