892 THE URETHRA bladder muscle is liypertrophied, and cystitis is common. There may be acute retention of urine or chronic vesical distension. The ureters and eventually the kidneys become dilated, and ascending septic pyelonephritis is usually present in old-standing cases. Symptoms.—In stricture of large calibre the only symptom may be a persistent purulent discharge (gleet). In stricture with small lumen the stream is small, thin, twisted, forked, or sprayed, or it may appear in small jets or only in drops. The projection is feeble, there may be a pause before micturition commences, and the stream finishes in a dribble. Frequent micturition is usually due to chronic urethritis of the prostatic urethra or to cystitis. Pain may be felt at the seat of the stricture during micturition, at the external abdominal rings, or in the back over the kidney on one or both sides. Pain on ejacula- tion and backward flow of semen into the bladder occur and are a cause of sterility. Retention of urine may be transient, lasting a few minutes or half an hour. Acute total retention of urine is caused by a chill, dietetic or alcoholic indiscretion, or sexual excess. There is severe suprapubic cramping paroxysmal pain, the patient is pale and sweating, and the bladder is felt as an oval suprapubic swelling. No urine escapes, or only a few drops from time to time. In some cases there is a remarkable absence of pain. Retention of urine is due to spasm of the compressor urethrse muscle or congestion of the mucous mem- brane at the stricture. Incontinence of urine is observed in narrow strictures. A small quantity of urine may be retained in the urethra behind the stricture and dribble away after micturition. Involuntary dribbling of urine is observed when the bladder is chronically over- distended. In the later stages chronic cystitis is present, and there is frequent and painful micturition day and night. In long-standing stricture dilatation and septic infection of the ureters and kidneys lead to symptoms of urinary septicsemia and of renal failure. Examination.—^A cartilaginous stricture can be felt on palpa- tion, and becomes more distinct when a bougie is passed. To detect a stricture a large gum-elastic bougie (No. 20 F. or 21 F.) should be introduced along the urethra ; it is arrested by the stricture. Spasm of the compressor rarely causes obstruction sufficient to resist gentle pressure with a bougie of this size. Smaller instru- ments are now passed until one is found which will enter the lumen of the stricture. In strictures of comparatively large calibre an acorn- tipped bougie is used. The acorn tip passes through the stricture, and on being withdrawn the shoulder of the acorn hitches at the stricture and the length of the stricture can be ascertained. The aero-urethroscope is useful in diagnosing strictures of wide calibre.