352 THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM and anterior surface. It had originally been saddle-shaped, but its anterior part had healed after operation. As to malignant disease, cases have been recorded by Robson, Moynihan, Czerny, Deaver, and others in which a malignant tumour developed as long as three years and a half after gastro-jejunostomy had been performed. In two of my own cases—one of adherent ulcer on the lesser curvature, and the other of pyloric ulcer—malignant disease declared itself within twelve months. The first could not have been excised, the second could. Both these cases were instances of errors in diag- nosis ; the difficulties in distinguishing between the two conditions are notorious, and it is likely that in some of the recorded cases similar mistakes occurred. Perforation and haemorrhage can be avoided by infolding the ulcer where possible, but the onset of malig- nant disease cannot be prevented. Against this are the records of many cases in which tumours thought to be malignant and irre- movable at operation disappeared after gastro-jejimostomy. In one case under my care no tumour could be felt fourteen days later. At the present time it may be said that gastro-jejunostomy is the operation of choice for chronic gastric ulcer, but it should be combined with infolding where possible, and, if there is any doubt as to malignancy, with excision of the ulcer or partial gastrectomy. The abdomen should be opened by an incision over the right rectus muscle dividing its anterior sheath. The muscle should then be pulled outwards and its posterior sheath and the peritoneum divided. After protecting the edges of the wound with gauze, the whole stomach and duodenum should be carefully examined in order to avoid such a catastrophe as performing gastro-jejunostomy to the pyloric pouch of an hour-glass stomach, an operation that has been invariably fatal. If no lesion is found on careful examination of both surfaces of the stomach, the posterior being inspected through an opening made in the transverse meso-colon, the cause of the trouble should be sought elsewhere—^in the gall-bladder or appendix. Even when a lesion is found in the stomach these organs should always, if the patient's condition will permit, be examined, and any disease should be dealt with. The stomach should not be opened ; if the lesion cannot be discovered by external examination it is not a chronic ulcer, and is unsuitable for surgical treatment. It cannot be too often insisted upon that gastro-jejunostomy must never be per- formed unless a definite lesion is present in the stomach ; it must never be done for symptoms. A chronic ulcer will show definite signs of its presence on inspection or palpation. On inspection a rough, red-stippled area is usually seen, often somewhat puckered. If the ulcer be on the lesser curvature, an enlarged lymphatic gland is frequently present. In the diagnosis from carcinoma due weight.