893 STRICTURE : TREATMENT Diagnosis.—1. Spasm of the compressor urethrse (spasmodic stricture) is caused by acute or chronic inflammation of the prostatic urethra. The difficult micturition is here intermittent in character ; the obstruction lies in the position of the membranous urethra, gentle continuous pressure succeeds in overcoming this resistance, and the aero-urethroscope shows the contracted membranous urethra. 2. Malignant disease of the prostate gives rise to increasing difli- culty of micturition. The onset of symptoms in stricture dates from a much earlier age, and the position of the obstruction and rectal examination are sufficient to make a diagnosis. Complications.—The following are complications that may be observed :—• 1. Retention of urine. 2. Septic complications (acute or chronic urethritis, periurethral abscess, acute or chronic prostatitis, epididymitis, cystitis, pyelonephritis, pyonephrosis). 3. Extravasation of urine. 4. Fistula. 5. Stone in the urethra. 6. Malignant growth of the urethra. Treatment by dilatation—Metal instruments or flexible bougies of silk or cotton web are used. The surgeon stands on the left of the patient and handles the instrument with his right hand while he manipulates the penis with the left. In introducing a metal instrument the tip is inserted into the meatus while the shaft lies transversely across the left Scarpa's triangle. The handle is carried towards the patient's abdomen and onwards to the middle line, and gradually raised. The left hand leaves the penis and is used to support the perineum. The handle is now raised to the vertical and swings down between the thighs, being transferred to the left hand. In passing elastic bougies the penis is grasped behind the glans and the organ kept on the stretch. The bougie is introduced and lightly held by the fore&iger and thumb of the right hand. If the bougie is arrested it is withdrawn a little and again pushed gently on. If this fails, progressively smaller instruments should be used until the size that will pass is reached. A filiform bougie .should only be used after larger instruments have failed ; if it does not pass, the end may be bent to an angle and the face of the stricture searched around its periphery. Assistance may be obtained by introducing a syringeful of oil into the urethra and gripping the meatus to retain the oil. If this is unsuccessful a number of filiform bougies may be passed together down to the stricture and each tried in succession. An instrument sometimes passes readily when the patient is placed under an anaesthetic, or under spinal analgesia, when all other methods