297 THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM By JAMES SHERREN, F.R.C.S.Eng. Anatomy and physiology.—Altliough the stomach and duo- denum are anatomically separate, it is advisable, for surgical reasons, to consider them together. From an embryological standpoint they are closely related, and they are liable to similar diseases. The stomach and the duodenum, as far as the entrance of the common bile-duct, are developed from the foregut and receive their blood supply from the coeliac axis, while the duodenum below tliis point is developed from the midgut and, like it, is supplied by the superior mesenteric artery. Our conception of the size and shape of the stomach has altered during the last few years owing to the frequency of direct operative examinations, to the introduction of X-rays, and to improved methods of anatomical investigation. Formerly regarded as a bag or sac into which the food dropped, it is now Icnown to resemble more closely the intestine, and to be normally in a state of contraction. From the anatomical, embryological, physiological, and patho- logical standpoints the stomach can be divided into two portions, pyloric and cardiac, which are in health functionally separated by a band of transverse muscle, the mid-gastric sphincter (Figs. 361, 362). The cardiac portion lies to the left of the right margin of the cardiac orifice, its boundary being marked by a notch on the lesser curva- ture. At this point tlie stomach turns almost at a right angle to run horizontally to the right, as the pyloric portion. X-ray examination of the normal stomach after the ingestion of a bismuth meal reveals the same condition. Systematic work in this method of examination was first done in this country by Hertz, on whose early observations the following account is based. When food is swallowed it is received into the cardiac reservoir, from which it is passed on into the pyloric portion. Fresh food swallowed passes to the centre of the mass already there, the action of the ptyalin in this way being allowed to continue unchecked by the gastric juice. Very little active movement takes place in the cardiac part of the