THE TONGUE 174 2. DEEP OE PARENCHYMATOUS GLOSSITIS This is a comparatively rare condition and affects adults, males rather than females. The disease comes on with pain and stiffness in the tongue, the pain often being referred to the neck and ear ; the tongue swells progressively until in extreme cases it cannot be retained in the mouth, but is protruded, indented and cut by the teeth which have pressed into it. The swelling is hard and tender. The dorsum of the tongue is covered with a thick white fur and there is profuse salivation, the glands in the neck are swollen and tender, and the temperature and general condition are indicative of an acute septic intoxication. Etiology.—This affection is said to be more common in cold and damp weather. Over-indulgence in alcohol appears to have a predisposing influence, but the most important factor is undoubtedly a septic state of the mouth and teeth. Of the many organisms which normally inhabit the mouth, the staphylococci and the streptococci seem to be the most important agents in exciting the condition. The staphylococcal form is the less acute and tends to be more localized. The streptococcal variety, on the other hand, is asso- ciated with extreme swelling of the tongue, which may pass back to the aryteno-epiglottidean folds, and of the glands in the neck. Sabrazes and Bousquet quote a fatal case secondary to puerperal fever, and Syme records two cases that occurred in workmen engaged in cleaning out a sewer. Mercurial glossitis will be considered later. Course.—The disease runs on to resolution in the milder forms, but some permanent thickening and stiffness may be left for months after the acute process has subsided. In other cases, suppuration follows, a deep abscess being formed, which is not easily detected. Occasionally, sloughing and even gangrene may occur, and the tongue may be extensively destroyed and become fixed to the floor of the mouth. The risk of cedema of the glottis and of septic pneumonia is very great in the streptococcal variety. After the acute stage has subsided, some permanent thickening of the tongue substance may be left—one variety of the " glossites profondes chroniques " of the French, a condition easily mistaken for one of the manifestations of syphilis. Treatment must be active from the start. It should begin with a calomel purge ; hot mouth-washes of 1-60 carbolic acid should be prescribed, and leeches applied to the submaxillary region. If the swelling be great, as in the streptococcal type, free incisions should be made into the dorsum of the tongue two-thirds of an inch on either side of the middle line, and one-third of an inch deep (Butlin),