VASCULAR TUMOURS 2:03 possibly as the result of injury. Capillary nsevi bleed readily and profusely, and in this respect are similar to the small but dangerous capillary haemorrhoids described by Allingham. The cavernous nsevi, usually found on the anterior part of the tongue, may attain some size, and may be associated with a similar state of the lip and cheek. They are quite painless, and as a rule circumscribed, but they have an unfortunate tendency to increase in size, and are liable to bleed profusely if injured. A cavernous ntevus is recognized by its dark colour and soft consist- ence, in addition to the enlargement of tlie vessels in the neigh- bourhood. Treatment.—Njcvi should receive active treatment, as there is always a risk of severe bleeding, which cannot in all cases be readily controlled. Capillary or even small cavernous nsevi should be treated by the galvano-cautery—the point, at a dull-red heat, being thrust deeply into the spongy tumour. The application must be repeated until the blood spaces are finally obliterated. Electro- lysis is often of use in these cases. In more extensive and diffuse cases excision is indicated, by means of a wedge-shaped cut placed well outside the line of the nsevus, care being taken to secure the larger vessels as they are cut. As a pre- liminary measure, one or both lingual arteries may require ligation. VARICOSE VEINS May be met with in the tongue as in other parts of the body ; some degree of varicosity is usually associated with na'vi. As a rule no treatment is required, especially when the posterior part of the organ is affected, as there is little danger here of injury and bleeding. In the anterior part, if increasing in size they should be treated as nsevi, of which very often they form a part. Papillomas These growths are fonnd chiefly on tlie dorsum, and are in many cases congenital. They may be single or multiple. Irritation unquestionably plays a part in the production of a certain number of papillomas. One variety, found on the side of the frjenum from contact with the incisor teeth in whooping-cough, appears to follow the development of an ulcer which is commonly present in this situation. Tongues which are the seat of chronic superficial glossitis are prone to develop large sessile papillomas, which must be regarded as examples of local irritative liypertrophy. Warty growtlis also occur in syphilis. Treatment.—Papillomas should be excised or, if small, destroyed completely by the galvano-cautery. The inflammatory papillomas