7IO RECTUM AND ANAL CANAL I prolapse of the rectum, aniong which the following may be men- tioned :— L Searing the mucous membrane with the actual cautery. —This is applicable where the prolapse is only partial. It is especially useful in children, and for slight cases in adults where there is no hsemorrhoidal condition of the mucosa. The object of the cautery is to cause limited sloughing of the mucosa, and thus narrowing of its circumference, and also to promote adhesions of the mucosa to the muscular coat. With the bowel protruding, the point of the Paquelin cautery at a dull-red heat is drawn from its base to its apex, in a series of radiating lines. In healing, cicatrices will contract in both the longitudinal and the transverse direction. A second application may be necessary. 2. Excision of the mucous membrane.—In prolapse of slight degree, and particularly in children in whom the cautery has failed to efEect a cure, V-shaped portions of the mucous membrane may be excised. It wiU generally suffice to remove two such pieces, one anteriorly and the other posteriorly. The cut edges of the mucosa are united by sutures. The extent of removal depends upon the propor- tions of the prolapse. The whole circumference of the mucous membrane may be excised and the cut edges of the mucosa united to those of the skin—White- head's operation. This procedure is suitable for prolapse caused by a hsemorrhoidal condition of the mucosa of the rectum, for any partial prolapse, and for some cases of complete prolapse of very moderate degree. In the latter class, when the mucosa has been united to the skin the muscular wall of the bowel will be folded, and adhesions of the mucosa to the pleated muscular wall will prevent a further ten- dency to j^rolapse. 3. Excision of the prolapsed portion.—This method is suitable for all cases of complete prolapse. It is attended with a greater risk and, according to some, a less promising after-result than the method described next. The protrusion is covered with sterile gauze and drawn well down, and an incision is made about f in. from the anal margin, and parallel to it, into the prolapse. This will in all probability be below the level of the internal sphincter muscle. The incision is deepened through all the layers of the gut and the peritoneal cavity opened. When this is done, care must be taken to avoid injury to any herniated intestine, which, if present, should be returned into the pelvic cavity. The incision should then be carried through the whole circumference of the protruded gut. The latter may now be unfolded, as it were, by pulling the cut edge of mucosa downwards and turning it inwards. The gut can then be drawn taut and clamped close to the anal margin, the part distal to the clamp being cut away. All