OPERATIONS FOR FEMORAL HERNIA 627 of the pectineus muscle and fascia, and suturing it to Poupart"s ligament. The only effect of this has been to damage the pectineus muscle, and, since the transplanted flap undergoes fibroid degeneration, no good results from it. 3. An attempt has also been made to suture Poupart's ligament to the horizontal ramus of the pubes, by passing deep sutures round the ramus or through the periosteum covering it. 4. With a similar object an endeavour has been made to unite these two structures by the use of steel staples driven thrxough the ligament into the bone. The method fails owing to the rarefying osteitis which shortly loosens the grip of the staples, and is moreover dangerous, since the points of the loosened staples are apt to wound the bladder and femoral vessels. 5. The femoral canal has been plugged with decalcified bone or with a graft of bone raised from the ramus of the pubes. 6. I have attempted to close the crural ring by means of a "spider-web" filigree introduced from behind Poupart's ligament (Fig. 465). The incision was made above and parallel to the ligament. The operation was difficult, and it is as yet too early to judge of its merits. These operations are founded on an erroneous belief that femoral hernia has a special tendency to recur. Such recurrences as are seen are fi-equently due, as Hamilton Russell has pointed out, to incom- plete removal of the sac, or to the overlooldng of lateral diverticula, which are especially common in this form of hernia. If it is thought necessary, owing to the unusual length of a femoral canal, to treat the sac in any special way, the best method is probably that of Kocher, which has already been described. In young subjects nothing more is necessary than to remove the sac completely after ligature, and close the wound by suture or clips ; but. care must be taken to leave no lateral saccidus overlooked. The difficulty of closing the femoral canal is an anatomical one. The outer wall of the canal being formed of the flaccid femoral vein, complete closure without compression or obliteration of this vein is practically impossible, and any method of closing the saphenous opening, whether by silver filigree or simple suture of its margins, still leaves the femoral canal unguarded, and causes compression of the long saphenous vein. If it is intended to utilize the first method of narrowing the canal, care must be taken in passing the sutures to guard the femoral vein from puncture as the point of the needle passes beneath Poupart's ligament, and to avoid passing the point so deeply that the peritoneum is in danger of being wounded. In some cases, especially of strangulated fermoral hernia, it is