THE INTESTINES 500 When it becomes impacted, vomiting is the most prominent symptom. It is continuous and profuse, and at first the vomited material may be tinged with blood from the fistulous track ; later, it is bile-stained, and it very soon becomes stercoraceous. The quantity of fluid vomited far exceeds that taken by the mouth. Shock and collapse are less marked symptoms and are more delayed than in the case of most other forms of acute obstruction, presumably because the vascular and nervous mechanisms of the intestine are not interfered with. Arrest of the passage of ffeces and flatus is not a constant symptom at the beginning of the illness. As the displace- ment of the stone from the duodenum is often brought about by the taldng of a strong purge, the bowels may act several times after the onset of the pain and vomiting, and this is apt to be misleading in diagnosis. After the stone becomes firmly impacted, however, con- stipation is complete. Tenderness and rigidity of the abdomen are not marked, and distension is usually slight and not easily recognized owing to the obesity of the patient. It is sometimes possible to palpate the stone through the parietes or from the rectum while the patient is under an anaesthetic. The diagnosis is always a matter of great difficulty, and is seldom made with certainty before the abdomen is opened, doubtless because the possibility of this cause for the symptoms is often over- looked. The late H. L. Barnard, who had an extensive experience of this condition, laid great stress upon the unusual character of the grouping of the symptoms as an aid in diagnosis. Treatment.—As in other forms of acute obstruction, the only rational treatment is to remove the stone by operation, and the high mortality in this form of obstruction is chiefly due to delay in operating, although in addition the age and obesity of the patients render them unfavourable subjects for operation. If this cause is suspected, the abdomen should be opened to one or other side of the middle line below the umbiMcus, and the lower part of the cavity explored. As a rule, the cause of the obstruction is speedily discovered, as the stone is usually impacted low down in the ileum. If not, the ileo-csecal junction should be found and the intestine traced upwards from it. When distended bowel predomi- nates, the first presenting coil should be traced towards the right until the stone is reached. The occluded loop is then withdrawn from the wound and packed off with gauze, and opened in the long axis of the gut. The bowel is opened at some distance above the seat of im- paction. The stone having been removed and the distended bowel emptied, the opening is closed by a Czerny-Lembert suture inserted at right angles to the long axis of the bowel. In some cases it has been necessary to resect the loop of bowel implicated.