CYSTIC FIBRO-ADENOMA 43 scopical examination the stroma {see Fig. 263) was highly cellular, and its appearance, apart from the clinical history, would suggest sarcoma, except for the fact that epithelial structures usually disappear from a sarcoma of the breast. Diagnosis.—Beatson points out that there are practically only three conditions which lead to the formation of really large tumours of the breast, i.e. soft fibro-adenoma (often cystic), hypertrophy, and sarcoma. Hypertrophy is bilateral, while the other conditions are unilateral. A sarcoma, if still encapsuled, cannot be distinguished from a soft fibro-adenoma. Only when a sarcoma begins to infiltrate, so that the breast becomes fixed and the skin involved, can the diagnosis be made. Treatment.—Since soft fibro-adenoma is a large tumour to which the breast itself is merely a small appendage, amputation of the whole breast is usually preferable to enucleation. The pectorals need not be removed, nor the axilla opened. Cystic Fibro-Adenoma Most large soft fibro-adenomas contain cysts. If these are of any size the tumour is called a cystic fibro-adenoma. A cystic fibro- adenoma may be produced from fibro-adenoma by the collection of fluid in the epithelial-lined spaces and chinks which represent the distorted original duct. This must obviously take place before the stage of consolidation has begun. When the cystic tumour is cut into, fluid escapes and blunt foliated or lobulated masses are seen projecting into the interior of the cyst. Such a tumour must be clearly distinguished from cystic duct papilloma. Another form of cystic fibro-adenoma is due to partial or complete mucoid degeneration and liquefaction of the fibrous substance of the original tumour. A perfect tangle of nomenclature has grown up around this form of tumour. Owing to the large size it rapidly reaches, and the cellular character of its stroma, it was formerly considered to be a sarcoma, and Brodie applied to it the name sero-cijstic sarcoma. Johannes Miiller called it cysto-sarcoma. French authors called it a cystadevoma, a correct term, but one which has led to confusion between this form of tumour and the cystic duct papilloma (papil- lary cystadenoma), an absolutely different condition. For this reason the term cystadenoma should be deleted from the nomenclature of breast tumours. Other names which have been applied to the cystic fibro-adenoma are adenocele, cystoid glandular tumour, and cystic fibroma. These obsolete terms are recorded, not to burden the student's memory, but as a key to the literature of the subject. Clinical features.—The characters of cystic fibro-adenoma are those of the soft fibro-adenoma from which it originates, except