CHRONIC COLITIS 509 in such subjects. The patient suffers from chronic dyspepsia with hyperacidity, and is habitually constipated, but has periodic attacks of severe colicky pain, attended with siclcness and vomiting, and cul- minating in a spurious diarrhoea with the passage of large quantities of mucus intimately mixed with some pale fajculent matter, containing less than the normal amount of bile. The mucus is sometimes clear like white of egg or boiled sago, sometimes in flaky shreds, and some- times it takes the form of fibrinous casts of the bowel, which may be several inches long. If broken up into strips, these casts are apt to be mistaken by the patient for intestinal worms. There is usually a moderate amount of blood in the motions, and occasionally intestinal sand is present. Sometimes the patient loses a considerable quantity of blood—hcBmorrhagic colitis. During an attack, tenderness can usually be located on maldng pressure over the colon, and the bowel may be felt to contract under the fingers, forming a firm, elongated, sausage-shaped swelling. There is an absence of muscular rigidity. On examining the pelvic colon with the sigmoidoscope, the mucous membrane may be found to be inflamed or ulcerated, and is covered with patches of shreddy mucus. These acute attacks may recur every few weeks or months, but in the intervals the patient, as a rule, does not regain strength, and often becomes extremely emaciated. The absorption of toxins affects the nervous system, and aggravates the neurasthenic tendencies of the patient, who eventually passes into a condition of chronic invalidism. Treatment.—Medical and dietetic treatment should always have a fair trial before recourse is had to operative measures. To relieve the acute symptoms during one of the paroxysmal attacks a hypodermic injection of morphia with atropin should be given to relax the spasm of the colon; then, the patient being placed in the knee-elbow position and directed to retain the enema as long as possible, about a pint of warm olive oil is slowly injected into the colon ; after an hour or two, the colon is Avashed out with saline solution. To correct the irritabiUty of the colon, the patient must be put on a carefully selected diet. According to von Noorden—and my experi- ence agrees with his—the diet should be a full one, and should consist of such things as fruit, vegetables, brown bread, and a moderate amount of butcher's meat, which leave a considerable indigestible residue. To prevent constipation and to render the ffeces soft, a liberal allowance of fatty food should be given in the form of cream, butter, cod-Uver oil emulsion, or petroleum preparations. The local treatment consists in injecting from 6 to 8 oz. of warm olive oil into the colon every night. This is to be retained till morning, when the bowel is washed out with sahne solution. The inflammation