MISPLACEMENTS AND INJURIES 73i the liepatic artery. Tliis portion of the duct is often in relation with one or two lymphatic glands, and small veins or an arterial twig may cross it and be the source of serious ha?morrhage if wounded. The second or retroduodenal ■portion is 1 in. to \\ in. long, and in two cases out of three is more or less surrounded by pancreas. The third or transduodenal portion passes obliquely through the duodenal wall and ends in the ampulla of Vater, which opens into the bowel on a papilla. The common duct gradually diminishes in diameter from 8 mm. at the beginning to 2"5 mm. at its orifice. THE LIVER MALFORMATIONS AND MISPLACEMENTS As a result of constriction by corsets and belts, the liver may be pushed up, or may be flattened antero-posteriorly with downward elongation of the whole of the riglit lobe, or of its lower border. Sometimes a definite, very mobile, tongue-like lobe arises by a broad attachment or a thin pedicle from the lower border, without elongation of the whole lobe. Such a process ("floating lobe" or " Riedefs lobe'") is often associated with gall-stones. It is distinguishable from an enlarged kidney by the facts that it can be pushed beyond the middle line, and that the kidney can be felt separately. Hepatoptosis, or Movable Liver Dislocation of the normal liver is only commonly met with in association ■with general visceroptosis (Glenard's disease). The liver is displaced down- wards and rotated so that the upper surface looks forwards, and the heavier right lobe is advanced inw-ards as well as downwards. It may be loose and replaceable, or may be fixed in its abnormal position. Total hepatof)tosis, a rare condition, is commonest in women bet\^ een 40 and 60. Etiology.—Ptosis may be due to congenital weakness of the hepatic sup])orts, and has been met with in children. The exciting cause may be trauma, but is usually the general weakening associated with rapid child- bearing or Avith neurasthenia. Treatment.—When the visceroptosis is general, most benefit is likely to accrue from abdominal massage and exercises (Swedish), combined with a well-fitting abdominal belt or corset. For hepatic displacement alone, attempts have been made to support the organ by forming adhesions between the liver and the parietes, by shortening the suspensory ligament, or by stitching the edge of the liver to the abdominal wall, INJURIES The liver is more often injured than any other solid abdominal organ. Usually the violence is direct and considerable. The injury may be entirely subcutaneous, or associated with an open wound. Morbid anatomy.—The right lobe is involved six times as often as the left, and the convexity twice as often as the concavity. The actual injury to the liver may take the form of a contusion, a subcapsular rupture, or a laceration. In the subcapsular variety the liver may be very extensively torn, leaving & gap an inch or more wide beneath its capsule (Fig. 520). Whatever the type, the most