HERNIA 6l2 Partial enterocele (Richter's hernia) Occasionally a portion only of the lateral wall of the bowel may protrude through a hernial ring, or through some adventitious opening (Fig. 456). The ileum is the part most commonly affected, and though the site of the hernia may be very various, the condition is most often seen at the femoral ring. A rare form of hernia, it is said to be more frequent in women than in men, and in adults than in children. The hernia is always small in size, being rarely larger than a marble, and the ring, wherever it may be, is always narrow ; thus strangulation is commonly the first evidence of the trouble. Its chief importance hes in the fact even when it is accomplished by operation, the constricted neck, which is on the antimesenteric aspect of the bowel, may be permanently altered by the development of cicatricial tissue in its wall, with the result that the herniated portion remains as a permanent diverticulum. The hernia is rarely diagnosed; the mortality is consequently high (60-6.5 per cent.), even when operation is undertaken. In some cases, however, gangrene has supervened and a spontaneous recovery has resulted, leaving the patient with a faecal fistula into the scrotum, or at the groin or umbilicus. Hernia of Meckel's diverticulum (Littr6's hernia).— Although only differing from the last-mentioned variety in its embry- onic origin, this hernia must be mentioned separately, since the lateral diverticulum is in this case the cause of the hernia and not the result. Meckel's diverticulum, the unobhterated remains of the vitello- intestinal duct, when present, springs from the antimesenteric aspect {From Could and Warren s " Intertiational 'Text-Book of Sitrgery") Fig. 456.—Richter's hernia. that the strangulation fails to give rise to two of its cardinal signs, viz. complete obstruc- tion and faecal vomit- ing. The entire lumen of the bowel not being involved in the ring, flatus and fseces may continue to pass from time to time, and con- sequently fsecal vomit- ing may be absent. Therefore gangrene of the constricted portion may easily supervene before a diagnosis is reached. Reduction is rarely possible, and