HERNIA 650 of the external iliac artery. Fortunately the accident is of rare occurrence ; it may to some extent be avoided by using a hernia knife with a shghtly blunted edge, since the tense ligament is more readily cut than the lax vessel. The director should be passed with the groove facing the pubic spine, and the incision made directly inwards, no more being done than is necessary to free the bowel. In umbilical hernia.—The incision may be made upwards or downwards ; usually without danger ; the director is rarely necessary, since the constriction, being due to the fibres of the Unea alba, can be divided from without; if there is still a constriction due to the neck of the sac, this too can be dealt with from without. Operative treatment of obturator hernia.—For reasons already given {see p. 606), this hernia is rarely submitted to operation except when strangulated. The sldn incision should be made vertically downwards and inwards from a point 1 in. external to the pubic spine, for a distance of 5 or 6 in. This will He along the inner edge of the femoral vein. The femoral vessels are retracted outwards and a separation is effected between the adductor longus and pectineus muscles. The bulging of the hernial sac either through the obturator canal or through the muscle fibres should now be seen. If access to the parts is difficult, the fibres of the pectineus muscle may be divided, care being taken to avoid its nerve which Hes behind it. If an attempt to reduce the hernia fails, a hernia director is passed along the neck of the sac above or below, and the hernia laiife passed along it so as to divide the constriction either upwards or downwards, the vessels usually lying anteriorly or posteriorly to the neck of the sac. Failing success in reduction by this method, the abdomen should be opened to the hernial side of the middle line, and reduction effected by gentle traction from within, the greatest care being taken not to rupture the bowel, nor to allow of the escape of foul-smelHng or blood- stained fluid into the abdominal cavity. The sac is then transfixed, tied, and removed, and the wound is closed. Gluteal and sciatic hernias can be released by a downward incision, but in these cases the irregularity of the vascular anastomosis may be considerable, and the best rule is that of free access to the parts by a wide incision, the division being effected by careful dissection. Is the bowel recoverable?—As soon as the constriction has been divided, the state of the bowel must be ascertained. It should be gently withdrawn from the wound, remembering always that the release must be sufficiently free to permit of this being done without the least force; for if at this moment a tear should occur at the constriction, the bowel above being tensely filled with liquid fseces and flatus, the lower abdomen is immediately flooded and the patient's doom is sealed.