SALPINGITIS 1053 In chronic cellulitis and encysted broad-ligament abscess the mass is strictly miilateral, displaces the uterus to the opposite side, and does not extend behind it. The diagnosis of the exact condition of a chronically inflamed tube is important. A fyosalpinx may be suspected if recurring attacks of fever are a feature of the case, or if the mass is very large and tender. A Injdrosal'pinx may be felt as a fluctuating elongated swelling, and is much less tender than a pyosalpinx. Fibrotic salpingitis is distin- guished by the smaller size of the mass, its fixity and hardness, and by the fact that the symptoms are those of chronic pelvic pain without exacerbations. A tuberculous origin is to be suspected where, in a virgin, a con.siderable mass is found, unexplained by the history. In conclusion,' the frequency of diagnostic error in these cases, even b}^ the most expert, must be strongly emphasized ; the surgeon's primary duty is to determine the correct treatment, rather than the actual anatomical nature of the swelling felt. Prognosis—A patient rarely dies of salpingitis. In acute cases that rapidly subside without the formation of pus the tube may possibly return to the normal, although in most cases the abdominal ostium probably remains permanently sealed up, and so produces sterility. If pus has formed, the tube is permanently disorganized. In chronic cases all hope of restitution to the normal must be abandoned. The longer the duration, the greater the likelihood of secondary disorganiza- tion of the ovary by adhesion, peripheral sclerosis, and follicular cyst formation. Treatment. Acute salpingitis.—Whenever possible, operative measures should be postponed until the acute stage is passed, (1) because if no pus forms the condition may entirely subside, and (2) because an operation during the height of the attack is much more difficult and dangerous, for the tubal contents are virulent, the tissues are so soft and vascular that ligatures cut through them, the bowel wall is friable and easily tears, and the patient's general condition is unsatisfactory. Immediate operation is, however, proper—(1) when the severity and extent of the peritonitis suggest a direct outpouring of jms into the peritoneal cavity, and (2) when the cause of the sj^mptoms cannot with reasonable certainty be diagnosed. If it be decided to temporize, hot antiseptic fomentations should be applied to the lower abdomen, the patient put on a liquid diet, the bowels opened every other day by an enema, and the intestinal dis- tension relieved by the passage every six hours of a long rectal tube. Pain may be met by morphia cautiously given, or better by Bromidia. Directly the temperature has fallen below 100° F., operation should be undertaken, supposing a considerable mass still remains in the