THE BREAST 2 tissue, enclosing a small milk-duct surrounded by a group of acini or alveoli, the blind glandular recesses which discharge their secretions into the duct. A large amount of fibro-fatty tissue intervenes between the lobules, and serves to cushion and protect them. In microscopic sections the ducts are distinguished by their single lining of columnar epithelium, while the alveolar or secreting epithelium is cubical. The epithelium of the alveoli and ducts rests upon a basement membrane of flattened endothelial cells. In microscopic sections, breast tissue can be recognized by these characteristic groups of cubical-celled alveoli containing one or more columnar-celled ducts. The inter- vening fibrous and fatty tissue contains here and there the section of a larger duct, the whole presenting a characteristic histological picture. Limits of the mamma.—Stiles showed that the outlying lobules of the breast extend as a thin marginal fringe in the subcu- taneous fat considerably beyond the limits of the mammary promi- nence. Including these outlying portions, the vertical diameter of the breast extends from the lower border of the second rib to the sixth costal cartilage at the angle where it begins to sweep upwards to the sternum. Its horizontal diameter extends from a little within the edge of the sternum, opposite the fourth rib, to the fifth rib in the mid-axillary line. The lower and inner margin of the breast over- lies the sixth costal cartilage midway between the angle and its sternal end, and is situated only about an inch from the dangerous area in breast cancer—the area of epigastric invasion. In a majority of cases a tongue-shaped projection of breast tissue, known as the axillary tail, extends to the base of the axilla, under cover of the lower edge of the great pectoral. Trecjuently the axillary tail lies in almost direct contact with the lowest of the axillary lymphatic glands. Relations to the underlying muscles.—Roughly speak- ing, the upper and inner two-thirds of the breast rests on the great pectoral muscle. The lower and outer third of the breast lies mainly on the serratus ma gnus—a fact often unwisely ignored in the operation for cancer. At its periphery the breast rests to a small extent below upon the aponeurosis of the external oblique and the origin of the rectus, externally upon some of the digitations of the external oblique. A portion of the breast, and especially its axillary tail, rests against the lower part of the inner wall of the axilla, and is separated from the axillary glands only by a fatty and ill-defined portion of the axillary fascia. The muscular relations of the breast are of great importance in the operation for breast cancer, for every muscle which directly touches the affected organ is very likely to be infected by microscopic secondary growths quite early in the case.