PRURITUS ANI 727 Treatment.—This consists in early and free removal. In all cases, whether obviously enlarged or not, the inguinal glands of both groins must be freely removed. It is impossible, for anatomical reasons, to remove the primary growth and lymphatic drain in one piece. The glandular operation is naturally performed first. The removal of the primary growth is conducted in a manner similar to that described already (p. 721) for the removal of a rectal cancer through the true perineum. The cut ends of the bowel are sutured to the perineal skin. No attempt can be made, of course, to preserve the external sphincter muscles. PRURITUS ANI An affection of the perianal skin, in which the one symptom is itching. There are two distinct cHnical conditions—(1) that due to some obvious source of irritation, (2) that occurring independently of any lesion in the rectum or the anal canal. 1. The irritation may be set up by oxyurides or by the discharges from internal haemorrhoids, fistulfe, ulcers within the anal canal, or from tumours, simple or malignant. It may arise from the unconscious escape of mucus, owing to weakness of the sphincters, wliether natural to the patient or due to prolapse or to previous operation. It may also result from lack of local cleanliness, or the joresence of redundant circumanal folds which allow of the collection of secretion or ffecal matter. In advanced cases the itching is intolerable, rendering the patients very depressed and at times suicidal. It varies from day to day, and from week to week ; it is worse at night-time and when the body is thoroughly warmed. When the condition has been present for some time the skin of the perineum shows evidences of prolonged and forcible scratching ; the dermatitis extends backwards over the coccyx, forwards over the scrotum or vulva, and outwards over the buttocks. The primary cause must be removed. After this, when the condition is of long standing, itching will not be relieved at once, and local treatment may \>e necessary. No one application will suit all cases. The changes must be rung between powders, ointments, and lotions. If the itching is acute a soothing application is preferable, but if chronic a stimulating remedy is more efficacious. Before any application the parts should be washed with some non-irritating soap, e.g. Castile soap, or oatmeal and water, and carefully dried. The powders may contain boric acid, starch, zinc oxide, calomel, calamine, bismuth, etc. Ointments may contain any of these, or chloroform, morphia, cocaine, salicylic acid, aconite, subacetate of lead, balsam of Peru, belladonna, ichthyol, etc. Many of these substances may be used in lotions. 2. Tliis variety is regarded as a nervous manifestation, possibly associated with the gouty, the neurotic, or some other constitutional diathesis. The patients are often of the nervous irritable type, and the pruritus is rendered worse after any excitement or nervous strain. The skin involved is an elliptical area, supplied by the 3rd and 4th sacral nerves, immediately surrounding the anus, and extending up the anal canal, back nearly to the coccyx and anteriorly along the perineum ; it becomes dry, thin, and atrophic. The condition may be relieved by one or other of the drugs already men- tioned, but often only temporarily. Good results from the employment of radium are reported by Sir Malcolm Morris and others. In cases in which