50 THE BREAST CARCINOMA OF THE BREAST ^ Etiology.—A carcinoma of the breast originates when the mammary epithelium, which is normally confined within its basement membrane, escapes into the tissue spaces of the breast, and continues to proliferate therein. In females the breast comes second only to the uterus as a seat of election for malignant disease ; one case of malignant disease in every three affects the breast. On the contrary, only one case in every hundred of cancer in males is of mammary origin. The com- monest sites of growth are in the upper and outer quadrant or beneath the nipple. Though no portion of the breast is exempt, the lower and inner quadrant is the part most rarely affected. In exceptional cases the growth begins in an outlying lobule situated beyond the visible limits of the breast. Campiche and Lazarus-Barlow find that the point of origin may be expressed in percentages as follows :— Beneath nipple ^ . . 12-2 Upper and inner quadrant 16'7 In nipple . . . 7'6 Lower and outer ,, . 12'4 Upper and outer quadrant 44'9 Lower and inner ,, . 6*2 The proportion of married persons in the general female popula- tion above the age of 25 is about three out of four, and three out of four cancers of the breast are seen in married women. Thus the liability of married and unmarried women to cancer is about the same. Though a few striking family histories have been adduced, the influence of heredity in this and in other forms of cancer is unproven. Failure or inability to suckle at the breast, blows and injuries, a family history of tubercle, and a brunette complexion, have each been alleged as predisposing causes. A history of injury is present in about 10 per cent, of cases of carcinoma, but a relation of cause and effect has never been proved. Age-incidence.—Carcinoma of the breast is unknown before puberty, and very rare before 35. Most commonly it begins in the years immediately following the menopause. It remains frequent up to the end of life, in proportion to the reduced number of persons living at the more advanced ages. Chronic mastitis as a precursor of cancer.—The most impor- tant factor in the production of breast cancer appears to be chronic mastitis. Taking first the clinical evidence, Bryant found that out of 360 cases of cancer, mastitis had occurred at some antecedent period in 80. Gross found similar evidence in 71 of 365 cases of cancer. Sheild found evidence of past inflammatory trouble in only 10 per cent, of the St. George's Hospital cases, but he justly points out that 1 See also Vol. I., pp. 561, 572. 2 This table probably underestimates the frequency of growths beneath the nipple.