LINGUAL CARCINOMA : GLAND DISSECTION 231 submaxillary gland and the lower portion of the parotid gland should be removed deliberately. This point is especially important, as there are a number of lymphatic glands situated among the glandular alveoli in both instances. The wound should be freely drained. Healing is, as a rule, by first intention, and the results are excellent ; some saliva may escape from the posterior angle of the w^ound, but this soon ceases to run. I use two drains. The operator sliould bear in mind that the lymph-vessels from the tip of the tongue pass directly to the glands of the internal jugular vein. Maitland's operation is somewhat more radical, and is suited to more advanced cases. The skin incisions are similar, except that the lower vertical incision is carried back along the clavicle. Maitland is careful not to leave the subcutaneous fat behind in tlie submental and submaxillary regions, as the glands here are very superficial. He begins his dissection posteriorly and above after reflection of his flaps, and insists on the removal of the lower part of the parotid and the whole of the submaxillary gland. Next he dissects the anterior triangle from below, dividing the sterno-mastoid, and then, working upwards, he approaches the region already attacked, finally severing the sterno- mastoid at its upper attachment. If necessary, he removes the internal jugular vein subsequently ; he does not recommend secur- ing it before, as the veins become congested, and there is then a great deal of venous oozing. This is a very radical operation, and efficient; it gives easy access to the upper deep cervical glands, which are reached with difficulty when the sterno-mastoid is preserved, and it is not open to the same objection as Crile's dissection, which entails temporary compression of the common carotid. Block dissection, as practised by Crile, should be reserved for the most advanced cases. It is an operation of the greatest magnitude, and consists in removing the glands, the sterno-mastoid, and the internal jugular vein in one solid mass from below upwartls. A clamp is placed on the common carotid artery. Tlie main skin incisions are similar to those employed by Butlin. Cases so advanced as to require these extremely radical measures are regarded by most surgeons as inoperable. General conclusions with regard to operations for lingual cancer.—1. For very early cases the removal of the tongue by Whiteliead's method, and dissection of the glands in ten days' time, may be adequate, but it is inferior to Butlin *s. 2. For more advanced cases, with definite enlargement of the glands, Cheatle's modification of Kocher's operation is to be preferred. On the whole, I recommend this as the routine operation for all cases that permit of its being done.