837 RENAL CALCULUS in 81 per cent, of all cases (Watson) and in 22'2 per cent, of infected cases (Schmieden). 2. Pyelolithotomy—The calculus is removed through an in- cision in the pelvis of the kidney. The kidney is drawn out of the lumbar wound and turned forwards and upwards, a longitudinal incision made in the wall of the pelvis, and the stone removed. The edges of the opening are then stitched with fine catgut. I turn down a flap of kidney capsule and cover the closed incision to j^revent leakage. Mayo recommends a flap of fatty tissue for the same purpose. Results.—The mortality in 54 uncomplicated cases was 111 per c-ent., and a fistula remained in 22'2 per cent. (Schmieden). 3. Nephrectomy.—Primary nephrectomy is rarely performed for calculus. It may be necessary—(1) in severe uncontrollable hccmor- rhage during nephrolithotomy, (2) when the kidney is atrophied or destroyed by suppuration, (3) when calculi are so numerous and large that they cannot be removed without destroying the kidney, (4) when a malignant growth is present. Secondary nephrectomy may be called for in—(1) urinary fistula causing great discomfort and irremediable by other means, (2) re- currence of stone with atrophy of the kidney, (3) prlonged renal suppuration. Results.—Primary nephrectomy for calculus has a mortality of 301 ])ov cent., and secondary nephrectomy 181 per cent. (Watson). Bilateral calculi and calculi in a solitary kidney. —It is unwise to remove the stones from both kidneys at the same operation. The less affected Iridney should first be operated upon, in case it may become necessary to perform nephrectomy on the second kidney later. Statistics show a mortality of 35 per cent, in operations on double calculi (Kiister). In operating on a solitary kidney, pyelolithotomy should be preferred to nephrolithotomy. CALCULOUS ANURIA Calculous anuiia occurs usually in men between the ages of 40 and 60. The calculus is small and single, and the exciting cause is violent exercise, shaking, or jarring. Pathology.—There is usually only one calculus, which is arrested at the upper end of the ureter (61 per cent.), the lower part (28 per cent.), or the middle (11 per cent.). The obstructed kidney is large and deeply congested with ecchymoses on the surface, and the pelvis contains 2 or 3 draclmis of blood-stained urine under con- siderable tension. The second kidney is always the seat of organic disease, usually interstitial nephritis. In a few cases this ureter is