852 THE BLADDER ing difficulty, and rectal examination shows that the prostate is enlarged. Treatment.—The following is the treatment suitable to the chief types :— 1. Acute inflammation of the urethra {gonorrhoea, etc.).—Every means should be tried to relieve the retention without the passage of a catheter. A hot bath or sitz-bath, followed by a rectal injection of hot water and a suppository containing belladonna and opium, should be given. If relief is not obtained in half to three-quarters of an hour an anaes- thetic should be given, the urethra thoroughly washed out with potassium permanganate (1 in 5,000), and then a rubber catheter passed. The bladder should be washed with permanganate or prot- argol (1 in 10,000) solution and a little of the solution left in the bladder. If acute prostatitis and prostatic abscess is present early operation is indicated. 2. Obstruction of the urethra by stone, foreign bodies, fedunculated bladder growths, blood clot, etc.—Belief by catheter should be given without delay. Spasm of the compressor muscle may hinder the passage of the catheter and may necessitate the use of several metal sounds before the catheter can be introduced. If the bladder is distended with blood clot an attempt may be made with a large metal catheter to break up the clot and wash it out, or a lithotrite may be used and an evacuating cannula. Should these methods fail, the bladder must be opened suprapubically, the masses of clot removed, and a large rubber drain inserted. 3. The distended atonic lladder of spinal disease should be regu- larly catheterized with the same precautions as in enlarged prostate. 4. Retention from reflex spasm after operations, and retention due to hysteria.—In operation cases the catheter is passed without delay. In other cases hot baths and other means of relieving spasm {see Acute Inflammation) should first be tried. A metal catheter is the best instrument for these cases. 5. Retention with enlarged prostate.-—The preliminary measures detailed above may be tried, but recourse to the catheter will nearly always be necessary. The following points are of the utmost import- ance :— i. The most rigid asepsis must be practised. ii. The delicate handling of instruments is essential. iii. All the urine of an over-distended bladder must not be withdrawn at once, or must be drawn off very slowly. Coude and bicoude catheters are most suitable. When obstruc- tion is felt the greatest gentleness is exercised ; sometimes twisting to one side or another, or withdrawing a little and pushing on, will be successful. In cases of enlarged prostate the urethra is greatly