OPERATIONS FOR LINGUAL CARCINOMA 229 care should be exercised in the feeding, and absolute cleanliness is essential. Complications.—Haemorrhage may occur shortly after the patient has been returned to lied, and is commoner after the more severe operations. It may be due to the slipping of a ligature, or to the opening up of veins which had ceased to bleed during the operation. Such a complication must be carefully watched for, since a sudden ha3morrhage of this kind may choke the patient, or by trickling down the trachea favour the development of septic pneumonia. If the bleeding is free, the mouth should be widely opened, clots swabbed out with a sponge, and a strip of gauze packed on to the bleeding area. If thought advisable, forceps may be applied and the vessel ligated. True secondary ha?morrhage is rare, in spite of the often septic state of the wound ; even when extensive operations are done upon the neck, which is thrown into communication with the mouth, it is rare for the ligated vessels to bleed. The precaution should always be taken, in these cases, to tie the vessels a little distance, from half an inch to an inch, away from the main trunk ; if the external carotid is tied, it should not be secured too close to the common vessel. Should this secondary bleeding occur, it is usually encountered when the sloughs separate, is rarely s<?rious, and readily yields to treatment. The mouth should be opened widely, washed out and swabbed ; if the bleeding-point can be seen, it should be caught with forceps and a ligature applied. Failing this, it is often sufficient to pack a strip of gauze firmly down towards the bleeding-spot and get the patient to close his mouth upon it. As a temporary, even as a permanent, measure this is wonderfully efficient ; in the only case of secondary haemorrhage imder my care, this method of treat- ment was followed by the complete arrest of the bleeding. Sloughing and cellulitis.—After extensive operations, especially where the mouth has been unusually septic beforehand, cellulitis may occur. It should be treated by free incisions and carbolic fomenta- tions. As a preventive measure, few sutures should be employed in the large ne^^k wounds, as they favour the retention of discharges. Frequent irrigations are the surest way of dealing with these infected wounds. I have no experience of antistreptococcic serum, but recom- mend the preparation and use of a vaccine. This complication, following on a long and exhausting operation, is a very serious one, likely to lead to a fatal issue. Septic pneumonia is responsible for the fatal termination of a large number of cases. More can be done to prevent it than to treat it when it has supervened. Local cleanliness, avoidance of