PALLIATIVE TREATMENT 615 1. The well-known progressive tendency of hernia. 2. The influence of hard manual labour on the one hand, and of sedentary occupation on the other ; both of which conditions favour the growth of a hernia. 3. The constant danger of strangulation. 4. The influence now exerted by the Employers' Liabihty Act, which makes it very difflcult for any man who is ruptured to obtain employment. 5. The greater prospect of permanent cure the earUer the operation is undertaken. The longer the hernia has been in existence the less this prospect can be entertained, at least so far as tlie ordinary methods of operating are concerned. In old age.—At the age of 50 and over, hernias tend to become very large and the tissues much degenerated, and, although operation is still capable of curing many of these patients, the risk to life and the difiiculties of the operation are greater, while the ordinary form of operation is useless, recurrence being the general rule. In such cases the use of my double-filigree operation (p. 622) is strongly advisable. PALLIATIVE TREATMENT OF HERNIA This consists essentially in {a) the reduction of the hernia, and (b) the application of some form of truss to prevent its re-descent. In the earlier stages of hernia the saccular contents return to the abdomen, by their own weight, on the patient lying down. Later on, for reasons already given, there is some delay in the process, and manual pressure is required to effect the reduction ; even this may at first fail, and the return may only be accomplished after some hours of recumbency, with or witliout the use of the ice-bag and the Trendelen- burg position, both of which tend to empty tlie vessels of the omentum and reduce the size of the swelling. Reduction by manipulation.—The patient is placed in the recumbent position, the thighs are flexed upon the abdomen to relax the abdominal muscles, and, in the case of inguinal and femoral hernia, are rotated inwards to relax the fascia of the tliigh and the neck of the sac. The latter is then grasped by the hand in such a way as to straighten out the body of the sac, wliile with the otlier hand pressure is evenly applied to the fundus, gently but firmly, in such a mamier as to favour the return first of that portion of the contents occupying the neck, following which the contents of tlie fundus will usually shp back easily. In the case of omentum alone, the sudden flaccidity of the sac will indicate the completion of the process, while in that of bowel the characteristic gurgle of air and fluid will be both felt and heard at the moment of reduction. Gentleness is most essential in these manipulations, since roughness