378 THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM of injury (traumatic cysts), or as the result of degeneration of tumours (degeneration cysts) ; while hydatid cysts may develop in the wall of the stomach, and ia one iustance, recorded in 1732, a dermoid cyst was said to be present. Retention cysts may arise from the obstruc- tion of ducts in chronic gastritis, but they are devoid of clinical importance. Gastric cysts produce symptoms which resemble those of other benign tumours, but in addition they are liable to rupture or to become infected, causing a perigastric abscess or general peritonitis. Symptoms of benign tumours.—In many cases benign tumours give rise to no symptoms unless they obstruct the pyloric or cardiac orifices ; but if large and situated in the body of the stomach they may cause pain of a dragging character. Vomiting is imusual unless the tumour obstructs the pylorus. Hsematen:esis may arise in adenomas or in myomas, when the mucous membrane covering them has become ulcerated. Diagnosis of benign tumours.—The possibility of a tumour being benign should be remembered, for imnecessarily severe operations have been performed—for example, partial gastrectomy for myoma. MALIGNANT TUMOURS CARCINOMA OF THE STOMACH This is a disease of appalling frequency. It has been estimated to be the cause of death in over 4,000 people in England annually ; during the years 1897-1904, 36,331 deaths were registered as due to gastric cancer. Dowd states that 9,000 deaths from cancer of the stomach were recorded in the United States in 1900. Virchow estimated that nearly 35 per cent, of all cancers that terminated fatally originated in the stomach. Haberlin, analysing the records of over 27,000 cases of carcinoma, found that 41 per cent, were connected with the stomach. In England and Wales it is the seat of disease in 22 per cent, of the fatal cases. Etiology.—Carcinoma of the stomach may be met with at any age, but is most common between the ages of 40 and 70. Thus, in 230 cases of carcinoma of the stomach admitted to the London Hospital between the years 1899-1908, in which the diagnosis was verified by operation or post-mortem examination, 196 occurred during this period, the greatest number being between 50 and 60. From a study of 2,604 post- mortems on patients who had died from gastric carcinoma, Fenwick found the age of death to be between 60 and 70 in 77 per cent, of the cases. It is rare under 20, according to Osier and McCrae 2'5 per cent., but among the London Hospital cases only 1 was below the age of 20. Six cases have been reported in children under 10, but of these only 2 can be definitely claimed as examples of carcinoma. Sex.—Men are affected more frequently than women. Fenwick found