762 GALL-BLADDER AND BILE-DUCTS closely simulate cancer. The diagnosis confirmed, and the possibility of complete clearance ascertained, the surgeon should freely remove the gall-bladder, with a wedge of healthy liver tissue. Direct extension to the liver does not necessarily preclude successful operation, but careful examination is required to determine the absence of associated secondary deposits in that organ. If complete excision be impossible, operation should be abandoned, for the mere removal of calculi never does good. Even in apparently favourable cases, early recurrence in the liver or peritoneum is very frequent. Cases in which a chronically inflamed gall-bladder is found microscopically to harbour cancer present better results. Caecinoma of the Bile-Ducts Primary malignant disease of the bile-ducts occurs more frequently than is supposed. The disease differs from cancer of the gall-bladder in that it is usually without gall-stones, and that males are more commonly affected than females, though it occurs at the same period of life. Pathology.—'The growth may affect any duct, but usually attacks one or other end of the common duct. It forms a columnar- celled carcinomatous ring and appears as a stony, hard, white nodule, not larger than a cherry, easily mistaken for a calculus. Obstruction is absolute, the ducts above become greatly dilated and the liver bile- logged, death occurring from cholsemia or cholangitis. Clinical features.—Jaundice commences insidiously and gra- dually deepens without intermissions until the skin may assume a dark bronzed or olive-green tinge. Pain is inconstant; there may be an attack of colic, but this is seldom repeated. There are no physical signs beyond enlargement of the liver, and of the gall-bladder when the common duct is involved. The diagnosis is suggested by painless, persistent, and other- wise unexplained jaundice in a patient between 50 and 60. Gall-stone obstruction is nearly always attended by a history of repeated attacks of pain and sudden onset; cancer of the pancreatic head may be palpable, or may be indistinguishable ; while catarrhal jaundice so surely clears up as to render diagnosis certain. Prognosis.—Death inevitably occurs from choleemia, haemor- rhage, or infection, in from six months to a year from the onset. Treatment.—It may be possible to excise the growth, either with end-to-end union, implantation into the peritoneal surface of the duodenum, or ligature of both ends and cholecystenterostomy. Gener- ally, however, cholecystenterostomy without excision will be the only available measure. This may enhance the patient's comfort by reliev- ing pruritus ; and it ensures against a possible mistake in diagnosis.