io82 FUNCTIONAL DISEASES FUNCTIONAL DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENITAL ORGANS PRURITUS Pruritus may be due to some structural change like leucoplakic vulvitis, or to glycosuria, but cases also occur in wliicli no gross cause- can be discovered, especially at the climacteric and during pregnancy. Such cases are to be treated by sedative ointments, and by the administration of bromides internally. DYSPAREUNIA All abnormalities of the genital tract tend to dyspareunia, but especially senile atrophy of the vagina, kraurosis vulvse, vaginitis, salpingitis, and fixed retroversion of the uterus. Besides these, a purely functional type exists in which, with total absence of sexual feeling,, the mere idea of the act is abhorrent. In cases of both classes coitus is more or less resisted by spasmodic contraction of the vaginal sphincters {vaginismus). The two types are often combined, for the actual pain due to organic deformity or disease, by abolishing sexual feeling, evolves the painful idea that is the basis of the functional affection and inhibits the flow of mucus that assists the act. Where organic deformity or disease is the sole or underlying cause of the affection it must be treated on the lines already laid down. Purely functional cases are very difficult to treat. A plastic operation enlarg- ing the vaginal orifice may be tried. DYSMENORRHCEA There are four types of dysmenorrhoea—(1) " virginal," (2) obstruc- tive, (3) congestive, and (4) " ovarian." 1. "Virginal" dysmenorrhoea {" sfasmodic" dysmenorrhosa).—Vir- ginal dysmenorrhcea begins, as a rule, a year or more after puberty. The pain starts either with or slightly before the discharge, and at first endures for a few hours only, but in the course of years it becomes more prolonged. It is of a heavy, continuous, " tearing" character, felt in the lower abdomen in the mid-line and down the vagina. When severe it is accompanied by nausea or actual siclmess. Its cause is not known, but its character suggests tension, and it is probably due to the stretching of the tense peritoneum and rigid musculature of the virgin uterus by the menstrual congestion. It rarely persists after childbirth, and in some instances is improved by marriage. The old term "spasmodic" is misleading, for the character of the pain is continuous. Obstructive dysmenorrhoea.—This may be actual or relative. Actual obstruction is seen in congenital or acquired atresia of the cervix or vagina. At first these conditions cause no pain, because the cervix and