742 GALL-BLADDER AND BILE-DUCTS has always been absent. The treatment consists either in excision of the gall-bladder, or in thorough curettage with use of pure carbolic acid, etc. Calcareous tuberculous glands along the cystic or common ducts may simulate gall-stones. Syphilis.—Sometimes gummata or syphilitic cicatrices have caused obstruction of the common duct, and given rise to symptoms of gall-stones, while a gumma in the margin of the liver may suggest a similar diagnosis. Cases with a strong syphilitic history should be given a course of mercury and iodide before operation is contemplated. INFECTIONS Cholecystitis Cholecystitis is much commoner than cholangitis, owing to the readier drainage of the ducts into the intestine. Cholecystitis, though usually associated with gall-stones, may occur independently, and there is evidence to show that such infections may exist for quite a time before the gall-stones appear. This is borne out by a series of the Mayos' cases of cholecystectomj'. In 365 cases, all inflammatory, gall-stones were found in only 69 per cent, of the specimens in an acute catarrhal condition, in 76 per cent, of the chronic catarrhs, and in 93 per cent, of the advanced chronic cases. Pathology of non-calculous cholecystitis.—The causa- tive organism may reach the gall-bladder either directly fi-om the bowel and ducts, or through the blood stream. The commonest infections are' probably by B. typhosus. Bacillus coli, B. influenzse, and the pneumococcus, in that order. The different varieties of cholecystitis, apart from the special type of causative organism, are really only different stages of the ordinary processes of inflammation. Clinical features.—The milder cases merely present indis- tinctive dyspeptic symptoms. In the more severe varieties there may be continuous or paroxysmal local pain and tenderness, with nausea and vomiting, catching of the breath, a very slight tinge of jaundice, and rise of temperature to 101° or higher. As the local rigidity dis- appears, the enlarged and tender gall-bladder may be felt. In the most acute cases the onset is very sudden, with rigors, liigh temperature, and often peritonitic symptoms. Chronic cases so closely simulate chronic cholelithiasis that the same description will serve (see p. 7-52). Diagnosis.—Gall-stones and acute appendicitis are the conditions most likely to be confused with cholecystitis. In the former the attacks of colic are more sudden and pass off more abruptly, and