THE CESOPHAGUS 288 The diagnosis is made (1) by a consideration of the above- mentioned symptoms, (2) by certain routine methods of examination conducted in a methodical manner in order to exclude the many other causes of dysphagia. Careful inspection and palpation of the neck should be vindertaken to eliminate tumours originating either in the lymphatic glands, the thyroid gland, or the vertebrae. Increased fixation or undue bulkiness of the oesophagus can be noted. Earely, the presence of a pharyngeal diverticulum may be discovered by this means. Evidence of alteration of the pupils should be noted, or inequality of the palpebral fissure. Signs of venous obstruction, or increased hyperaemia of one side of the face, are suggestive. External examination of the thorax should next be undertaken, and the condition of the heart and lungs carefully noted. The upper abdomen should then be palpated for the presence of a possible tumour. The methods employed in the internal examination of the oesophagus have been previously described. They include— (1) Examination by sounding ; (2) the employment of X-rays and fluorescent screen after the administration of bismuth by the mouth ; (3) examination with the laryngoscope and the oesophagoscope. 1. Examination with bougies.—This method is most commonly employed, and is of great practical value. By its means the site, extent, and permeability of an oesophageal stenosis can be estimated. In careful hands the risks of this procedure are slight. The chief dangers are—(a) perforation of the wall of the oesophagus, already thinned by an ulcerating growth ; (h) rupture of a sac in cases of aortic aneurysm. The former danger can be minimized, in cases where the growth appears to be of long duration, by employing a soft stomach-tube in place of the usual gum-elastic or whalebone sound. Careful con- sideration of the symptoms and physical signs should render the latter risk an unlikely one. Gum-elastic sounds, either oval or round, should be used, or Symonds's whalebone sound with olive-shaped end. The sound is passed as described at p. 257. If an obstruction be felt, no attempt should be made to push the instrument forcibly past the constricted part. A smaller-sized bougie should be used, and gradually smaller ones inserted until one is felt -to pass the site of the obstruction. By the employment of Symonds's sounds the length of the con- stricted portion can be measured. 2. Examination with X-rays.—Radiography after the adminis- tration of bismuth is now extensively employed in this condition. Its chief value is to exclude the presence of a pouch or foreign body.