272 THE CESOPHAGUS without much difficulty. The end of the instrument must be passed with great gentleness until below the foreign body, and then pulled upwards. When the coin reaches the narrow portion at the cricoid a hitch is generally felt, but with a little manoeuvring this can be overcome. If the foreign body be of angular shape, the coin-catcher is not of much use, and various forceps (Fig. 351, A, B, c) should be used for the extraction. The use of X-rays is invaluable, again, for this latter procedure. Treatment for an adult should be conducted on the same lines. If careful attempts at extraction have failed by these means, and the foreign body is firmly impacted owing to its irregular shape or sharp edges, it may be possible to alter its position, or even to extract it, by means of the cesophagoscope. Von Hacker considers that extraction by means of this instrument is generally practicable. It is hardly possible to extract any but small bodies through the largest tube of this instrument, but it is an easy matter to grasp them with forceps introduced through the tube, or even to cut them up with an instrument suitable for the purpose. 3. Extraction through an incision in the wall of the oesophagus.—The indications for this are— i. When the foreign body cannot be displaced and extracted through the mouth. ii. When evidence of ulceration of the wall of the oesophagus is present. iii. When symptoms of perforation of the wall of the oesophagus are present. iv. When complications, such as haemorrhage or septic infection of the surrounding tissues or thoracic viscera, have supervened. Cervical oesophagotomy is indicated, as a rule, for the removal of sharp, jagged bodies, such as a tooth-plate, impacted in the upper part of the oesophagus. It is possible by this means to remove, by the introduction of suitable forceps, a body situated as low down as the position of the bronchi (Bennet May). On one occasion I removed a tooth-plate which was impacted opposite the 3rd dorsal vertebra (Fig. 352). Richardson says that a length of oesophagus 6 in. below the cricoid is accessible by this route. In certain cases it is necessary to cut up the foreign body to facilitate its extraction. In the case of a toy bicycle impacted in the oesophagus, and removed by me, this manoeuvre had to be carried out before extraction was possible (Plate 89). This procedure was also necessary in a case recorded by Lawson. The operation of cervical oesophagotomy is not difficult, but is attended with some danger owing to the risk of septic infection of