532 THE INTESTINES omentum or an adjacent coil of bowel having become adherent to the tumour. On examining the rectum, it is often observed that the external sphincter is tightly contracted, the anal canal unduly short, and the rectal cavity blown up with gas, so that the finger can scarcely reach its walls, a condition wliich is known as " ballooning of the rectum." This is most frequently observed when the stricture is in the pelvic colon, but is not a characteristic sign of cancer. When ascites is present, there are usually advanced secondary deposits in the peritoneum, or in the liver. As time goes on, the patient suffers greatly from recurring attacks of colic, during which visible coils of intestine may stand out and be felt to harden as a wave of peristalsis passes over them. There is increasing distension, and rumbling sounds are heard in the abdomen. The constipation becomes more marked, and, in spite of the talcing of purgatives or enemata, the bowels may fail to act for days or even weeks, without acute symptoms of complete obstruction coming on. When acute obstruction has swpervened.-—As a rule, acute symptoms a,ppear suddenly in a patient who has for some time shown signs of gradually increasing stenosis. In a considerable proportion of cases, however, the compensation has been so efhcient that the muscular hypertrophy has been able to overcome the obstruction, and it is only when a severe strain is suddenly thrown upon the musculature of the dilated bowel—for example by the talcing of a strong purgative, or by a foreign body or a hardened faecal mass becoming impacted in the stricture—that the compensation fails and signs of acute obstruction manifest themselves. The usual symptoms of acute obstruction are present, and there may be nothing, apart from the previous history, to indicate either the cause or the seat of the obstruction. The whole colon above the stricture usually becomes greatly dilated, the dilatation supervening rapidly, and being so marked that, when the abdomen is opened, the longitudinal striae cannot be recognized, and the peritoneal coat often splits with the removal of the support of the abdominal wall. The distended bowel forces its way between the layers of the mesentery, which may become so much shortened as to anchor the gut. Patches of gangrene may form on the dilated bowel and perforation occur, leading to peritonitis, which adds to the distension. Sometimes the caecum alone is acutely distended, the other parts of the colon above the obstruction showing only moderate dilatation. This is probably due to the ileo-caecal valve remaining competent and to violent anti- peristalsis forcing gas and fluid faeces back to the caecum. When the colon is fuU and bulges into the flanks, it yields a dull note on percussion, and an apparent sense of fluctuation with distinct splashing may be detected on succussion.