601 UMBILICAL HERNIA stomacli full, the supine position results in a falling back of tlie latter and a dragging upon the former. Where such a "blind herma" is present, it may in a very; stout patient become strangulated without the external evidence of a swelling to assist the diagnosis. Owing to the thiclmess and the loose character of the subcutaneous and extraperitoneal fat layers, the expansion of the hernial contents causes the sac to bulge in various directions along the lines of least resistance into either or both of these layers (but especially into the former). The result is that in small hernias the swelling is hidden in the fat, while in large ones there is produced a two- storied and complicated ar- rangement of secondary sac- culi, radiating from the central passage which represents the original sac (Fig. 449). If, then, the hernia commences by the protrusion of a lateral sacculus into the extraperi- toneal, or into the deep por- tion of the subcutaneous lawyer, a "blind hernia" is produced (Fig. 450). More commonly there will be noticed at the umbilicus a slight protrusion which trans- mits an impulse on coughing. In the early stages, at least, it can always be easily re- duced, and the sharp edges of Fig. 450.—"Blind hernia" of umbili- cus ; appendix epiploica occupy- ing lateral sacculus (transverse section). ' 1 ilirid " sac : epiploica; L.s., lateral sacculus ; a., appendix ., colon ; jK., rectus muscle. the ring can then be felt. At a later period these hernias may assume gigantic proportions, spreading out on either side on the abdomen in an ill-defined and lobulated mass, or pro- jecting directly forwards, with a tendency, by their own weight, to sink down and overhang the pubes (Fig. 451). At an early stage the sac becomes adherent to the coverings—peri- toneum, aponeuroses, and sldn being welded into one layer ; later, as distension increases, these coverings become thinned out, so that the intestinal movements may be observed through them. At the same time, extensive adhesions are formed between the contents themselves (the omentum being chiefly involved) and the sac walls. In very