212 THE TONGUE extent. Lulled into a state of false security, patient and surgeon allow valuable time to elapse, and then, when the true state of affairs is realized, the ulcer is probably much more advanced, and less favourable for treatment than it was at first. If there is an obvious source of irritation, let it be removed, and let the ulcer be treated with a mild antiseptic and occasional touches of chromic acid ; strong caustics are never to be applied. If there is no obvious improvement in ten days, remove a piece of the margin for examination as suggested above. Tuberculosis should be less frequently confused with cancer, as it is much rarer and occurs in younger subjects, who are generally sufferers from pulmonary tubercle ; Nedopil, however, cut out several tuberculous ulcers under the impression that they were cancerous. As this is a recognized treatment for tuberculous ulcers, no harm is done, provided notliing very extensive is attempted. In a case of my own, in a man of 65, a large ulcer sprang from the side of the tongue, crossed the mouth, and involved the lower jaw extensively. There were hard, enlarged glands in the submaxillary triangle. All who saw him agreed that the condition was malignant, and the general appearance certainly favoured this diagnosis. I removed the growth and the glands at one sitting, and he did very well, recovering completely; but further microscopical examination showed that the growth and glands were tuberculous. Prognosis. — Unless a lingual cancer is operated upon, death is certain. Unfortunately, the operative results still leave much to be desired. They will be considered later. Treatment.—Cases of carcinoma which come for treatment fall into four main groups :— 1. The condition is inoperable ; it is not reasonable to attempt to remove even the primary growth ; palliative measures alone must be employed. 2. The condition is too advanced to permit of complete extirpation, but local removal of the primary focus may be attempted, with the view of prolonging hfe and averting some of the horrible terminal complications. This applies especially to carcinoma situated in the posterior part of the tongue. 3. There is a good or reasonable chance of clearing away the disease. Here each case must be judged on its merits, and the opinion of different surgeons will vary as to what may be considered operable or otherwise. No absolute rules can be laid down. Extensive and fixed glandular metastases will contra-indicate a complete operation. Extensive local spread may do the same, but with the knowledge of the certain fatal issue and its attendant sufferings we should be ready to operate on all but the most hopeless.