THE INTESTINES of the mucous membrane may be allayed by injections of one or other of the albuminous silver preparations, such as protargol or argyrol to 1 per cent.). Purgatives should be avoided if possible. If they cannot be dis- pensed with entirely, a small dose of castor oil should be taken regularly every four or five days till the tendency to constipation has been overcome. When such measures are ineffectual, operative interference is necessary. The best results have followed appendicostomy, the appendix being brought out in the right iliac fossa and used as a means of irrigating the colon. Several pints of warm saUne solution are injected into the colon through the artificial opening two, three or four times a day. As a rule, no antiseptic need be added, but benefit is sometimes derived from the silver salts. The irrigation must be kept up for several months, and the opening then allowed to close, which it usually does soon after the use of the injections is discontinued. During the treatment, the patient is able to continue his work and is seldom incommoded by the fistulous opening. This procedure should be tried before recourse is had to right inguinal colostomy or ileo-sigmoidostomy. PERICOLITIS Diverticulitis Changes similar to those which occur in the vicinity of the csecum as a result of appendicitis are frequently met with around other parts of the colon. These are most common in relation to the pelvic colon, and are generally due to infective processes originating in acquired diverticula—so-called diverticulitis. The formation of a concretion in a diverticulum may be followed by ulceration or suppuration, and if the infective process spreads to the peritoneum, a localized abscess may form or a general peritonitis be set up. Similar results may follow ulceration of the colon apart from the presence of a diverticulum—for example, a stercoral, tuberculous, or malignant ulcer, or an ulcer resulting from an injury produced by a foreign body, such as a fish or game bone. The pathological processes, the clinical features, and the general principles of treatment are the same as those of allied conditions resulting from appendicitis. TUBERCULOSIS OF THE INTESTINE Tuberculosis affects the intestine in two distinct ways : (1) in the form of multiple ulcers, and (2) by the formation of localized tumour- like masses.