355 GASTRIC ULCER: PERFORATION perforation. This is also the experience of Moynihan, who states : " The perforation of an ulcer of the stomach is a catastrophe which, in my experience, never comes unannounced." The patient is suddenly seized with agonizing pain in the epigastric region ; in some cases the pain shoots to the left shoulder. If seen shortly after perforation, shock is, as a rule, absent, and the pulse-rate is not increased ; this should be borne in mind. Board-like rigidity and deep tenderness appear early, both signs being first present and most marked in the epigastric region. In a few cases tliis early rigidity may be absent, but tenderness is always present. Gradually the pulse-rate rises, collapse sets in, and the abdomen becomes distended, indicating that the most favourable time for operation has passed. The initial severe pain passes off usually in less than an hour. Vomiting occurs shortly after the onset of the pain in about halt the cases, but is usually not repeated, and is not frequent until peri- tonitis has developed. In many cases the temperature is subnormal directly after the perforation. Liver-dullness may be absent if much gas has escaped into the peritoneal cavity, but it is not a sign on which reliance can be placed. General subcutaneous emphysema has been noticed as a rare complication. Cases have been recorded in which death occurred from the severe pain or shock of perforation. In a case which recently came under my notice, death took place two hours after perforation of an acute ulcer, in a girl of 19. In subacute perforation there are often for several days premonitory symptoms of stabbing pain, or a feeling of acliing or stiffness, but at the time of perforation the symptoms are less acute. Unless operated on, the condition usually leads to the formation of a perigastric abscess (see p. .37.3). Diagnosis.—No difficulty arises in the majority of cases. The sudden onset of acute abdominal pain in a young woman who has had gastric symptoms previously should lead to the correct diagnosis. In men it is often difficult to decide before operation whether the ulcer is gastric or duodenal, but this is a matter of no importance. But cases occur in which no previous history of gastric trouble can be obtained. In many catastrophes in the upper abdomen no definite diagnosis can be made, but these are cases in wliich the correct treat- ment is operative—e.g. perforation of the gall-bladder, or acute pan- creatitis. Acute appendicitis may be simulated by a subacute perforation of the stomach, but with much less frequency than by perforation of duodenal ulcers. Ruptured tubal pregnancy should also give rise to no difficulty