884 THE URETHRA For anterior urethroscopy the patient lies on a high table, and the tube with the obturator in position is oiled and introduced. The instrument sinks as far as the membranous opening, the obturator is removed, and a pledget of cotton-wool on a carrier introduced to remove the moisture. The lantern is applied to the tube and the light switched on. The urethra is examined as the tube is slowly withdrawn. The tap of the air-bulb, which has pre- viously been distended, is now opened, and the urethra distends like a tunnel. Air-distension is especially useful in examining a stricture. For examination of the prostatic urethra the pelvis of the patient is raised on a cushion, or the patient is placed in a special chair with the hips and knees well flexed. The posterior urethra is anaesthetized by introducing 20 minims of a 1 per cent, cocaine solution by means of a Guyon's syringe. The posterior urethroscope tube is well depressed when the beak reaches the membranous urethra, so that it passes on into the prostatic portion. The obturator is withdrawn, a tampon of wool introduced to remove the moisture, and the lantern is applied. The female urethra can be palpated on the anterior wall of the vagina. The uretliroscope is used in the same manner as in the male, but without air-distension. Urethral shock.—On the first instrumentation a nervous patient may feel faint, but quickly recovers on the application of the usual remedies. True urethral shock is rare, and is a much more serious condition. During or immediately after the passage of an instrument the patient gives a few short gasps, becomes unconscious, and after one or two inspiratory stridors stops breathing. The pupils dilate, the pulse becomes imperceptible, and the heart sounds cease. A loud expiratory effort may occur after breathing has stopped. The condition is fatal in a large proportion of cases. Energetic stimulation and artificial respiration may be tried, and are occasionally successful. URETHEAL, URINARY, OR CATHETER FEVER The rise of temperature that sometimes follows instrumentation has been ascribed on one theory to nervous influences, and on another to sepsis. It is now generally accepted that urethral fever is septic in origin, the infection originating either in a septic instrument, in an already infected urethra, or in septic urine. Infection is more likely to take place when an obstructive lesion is present than in an unobstructed urethra, in lesions of the bulbous than of the penile urethra, and in those of the prostatic than of the anterior urethra. A rough inexperienced hand is more likely to produce urinary fever than a gentle educated touch. Types of urethral fever. 1. Urethral fever without suppression of urine.—(a) The temperature may rise to 100° F. or 101° F., with slight malaise, but falls again in a few hours to normal. (b) A single severe rise to 102° F., or higher, accompanied by a rigor, may occur a few hours after the passage of an instrument. The patient is restless and ill, the tongue dry, the mouth parched, the urine scanty and high-coloured. In twenty-four to thirty-six hours, after profuse perspira- tion, the temperature falls to normal. (c) The fever is prolonged (acute remittent type). After an initial rigor the temperature rises to 102° F. or higher, remaining high for several days, then falling gradually to normal, sometimes with a short recurrent rise. (d) A rigor follows internal urethrotomy, and the temperature rises to