OBSTRUCTION FROM SPASM ENTEROSPASM The term " enterospasm" lias been applied to a condition in which, as a result of spasmodic contraction of the circular fibres of a limited segment of the bowel, symptoms suggestive of acute intestinal obstruction develop. Clinical features.—The condition is chiefly met with in neurotic women, between 20 and 50 years of age, who have suffered from chronic colitis with diarrhoea and blood-stained stools, or who have recently undergone a pelvic operation. Without obvious cause, the patient is seized with severe abdominal pain attended with vomit- ing, distension of the abdomen, and complete arrest of the passage of ffeces and flatus. The attack may last for a few hours or for several days, and then pass off as suddenly as it began, and after the bowels have acted, the patient again feels perfectly well. During the attack, a firm, sausage-shaped swelling can sometimes be made out in the position of the contracted gut, wliich is usually the pelvic colon. In its less severe forms, in which there are merely repeated short, sharp attacks of colicky pain, with moderate flatulent dis- tension, lasting for an hour or two, and then passing off completely, the condition is suggestive of recurrent appendicitis, renal or biliary colic. It is characteristic of the affection that full doses of belladonna and hyoscyamus rapidly relieve the spasms, and the symptoms dis- appear. Opium acts in the same way, but should only be given for diagnostic purposes when there is reasonable certainty that no organic cause of obstruction exists. Etiology.—The true nature of these attacks has only been recognized within recent years as a result of laparotomy having been performed for the relief of what was believed to be an organic obstruction. A careful search for the cause of the obstruction has only revealed a firm contraction of a portion of the bowel—usually the pelvic colon—varying in length from one to several inches. Above the contracted segment, which is pale, firm, and rigid, the bowel is distended with gas and fteces, and below, it is contracted and empty. In some cases the spasm has relaxed and come on again while the bowel was actually under observation. In view of the almost constant history of chronic colitis with blood in the stools, it is probable that the spasm is set up by some local lesion of the mucous membrane, such as an ulcer. Treatment.—It must be emphasized that enterospasm giving rise to symptoms so severe as to suggest acute obstruction is rare, and that treatment directed towards relief of spasm alone is seldom justified, and is only to be adopted when the various causes of organic