740 GALL-BLADDER AND BILE-DUCTS by gauze pacldng, or by stitcliing the sac to tlie abdominal wound before opening it. Some surgeons prefer to divide the operation of evacuation into two stages, leaving the opening of the sac to a second operation ten days later. Whenever possible, complete excision is the ideal operation. As, however, the adventitious capsule is intimately associated with the surrounding parts, this can seldom be carried out; but enucleation of the true cyst may be combined with partial excision of the capsule. The large area left after excision or enucleation may be completely or partially closed by tier sutures, any part not so closed being treated by gauze pacldng. In any case, drainage must be provided. If excision is not expedient, the cyst should be opened and emptied, and every part of the lining membrane removed by forceps or by gauze scrubbing. The remaining cavity must be packed if there is much haemorrhage, and in all cases freely drained. Very large tumours, of which the whole interior cannot be reached, should be marsupialized by stitching the edges to the peritoneum or fascia of the parietal wound. The interior may then be packed and drained. GALL-BLADDER AND BILE-DUCTS MALFORMATIONS Congenital Obliteration of the Bile-Ducts This condition is probably due to antenatal descending cholangitis. Clinically, there is jaundice, either at birth or very soon afterwards ; this rapidly increases and becomes associated with chotemia and tendency to hsemorrhage, life seldom being prolonged beyond six montlis. Treatment.—In cases that have survived infancy an opera- tion may be undertaken. If the gall-bladder is not distended with bile, cholecystenterostomy will be useless, and an attempt will have to be made to unite a dilated duct or a free surface of the liver to the small intestine. Cystic Dilatation of the Common Bile-Duct There are two classes of cases : (a) those with a free opening into the duodenum ; (b) those with definite obstruction in the common duct. The condition is most frequent in children, l)ut may first show itself about middle life. Clinically, there is a large cyst below the liver, associated with jaundice. The onset is gradual and the whole condition painless. Treatment must be operative, usually by anastomosing the cyst and some part of the intestine, preferably the duodenum.