HEMATOCELE OF THE TUNICA VAGINALIS 959 This condition is rare, although small localized hydroceles are not uncommon with malignant tumours of the testis. 4. With acute torsion of the spermatic cord a small liajmatocele always forms in the cavity of the tunica vaginalis. Symptoms.—CUnically, hajmatoceles may be divided into two classes : (1) acute cases, wliich usually have a very definite liistory of injury and in which diagnosis is generally easy ; and (2) chronic cases without a definite history, and in which diagnosis is always difficult and often impossible without exploratory incision. Acute hsematocele.—The onset of these cases is sudden, and follows a blow on the scrotum or a muscular strain, the patient usually being the subject of a hydrocele ; or it follows the tapping of a hydrocele. The scrotum rapidly swells, and there is generally marked ecchy- mosis of the scrotal skin. The swelling is painful and tender, semi- fluctuant and non-translucent. As a rule the position of the testis cannot be made out, but it is usually situated below and behind the swelling. Tapping causes escape of blood and diminution, but not disappearance, of the swelling. If left the ecchymosis of the scrotum disappears, the pain diminishes, and the swelling gets smaller, but in a few cases inflammation terminating in suppuration may occur, the physical signs changing to those of a scrotal abscess. Complete resolution of a ha^matocele is rare, some thickening of the tunica vaginalis and blood-clot remaining. Chronic hsematocele.—The onset in these cases is insidious, the patient giving no history of a cause. The swelling grows slowly, but usually there are irregular increases in size, followed by retro- gression, suggesting small and repeated haemorrhages. It may be months before the hfematocele grows to a size that is inconvenient to the patient. The swelling is firm, and feels solid, and is not tender or translucent. It is often irregular and nodular, and testicular sensation cannot be obtained. It is frequently impossible to ascertain the position of the testis or to differentiate between body and epididymis. The cord may be thickened, and the skin of the scrotum may not be freely movable over the swelling. If tapping is resorted to, no fluid may escape from the cannula, but usually there issues some dark-brown or black fluid containing degenerated blood-corpuscles and cholesterin. In these chronic cases as in the acute, inflammation and suppuration may occur and cause a scrotal abscess. Pathological anatomy—If a recent case be examined there may be no definite changes in the tunica vaginalis or in the testis, the only pathological condition found being blood, partly coagulated and partly fluid, in the cavity of the tunica vaginalis and in the scrotal