330 THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM {b) Hour-glass stomach.—It is rarely possible to distinguish this by its symptoms from pyloric obstruction, which not infrequently coexists; but its possible presence should always be borne in mind, and its diagnosis attempted, in order to prevent errors in operative treatment. Certain symptoms (p. 323) noticed on the passage of a stomach-tube may facilitate the diagnosis ; in other cases, X-ray examination after the ingestion of bismuth will reveal the condition. (2) An attempt must be made to discover the nature of the dilata- tion or its causation. Chief reliance has to be placed on a careful anamnesis. A history of preceding abdominal disease, pointing to gastric or duodenal ulcer, is obtained in many of the simple cases. The rapid onset of the symptoms of dilatation in an adult who has had no previous gastric trouble will point very strongly to malignant disease. Examination of the stomach contents after a test meal may be of service in the differential diagnosis. A Mstory of biliary trouble would point to the condition being secondary to disease of the biliary passages ; one of difficult feeding in infancy or of life-long dyspepsia followed by dilatation of the stomach would suggest a congenital origin. Prognosis.—Obstructive dilatation is a disease of grave prognosis unless treated surgically ; but if treated on modern surgical Unes the death-rate is small and the ultimate recovery in the majority of cases perfect. In cases in which tetany has developed the death- rate under medical treatment has been from 70 to 90 per cent. Under surgical treatment the prognosis even of the cases with tetany has been greatly improved ; thus, McKendrick has collected 24 such cases with only 3 deaths. Treatment of chronic dilatation.—Ohstructive dilatation of the stomach should be surgically treated; it is useless attempting to cure the condition by lavage. The exact operation necessary will depend on its causation. The choice lies in the majority of cases between gastro-jejunostomy and gastro-duodenostomy (Finney's method). Operations such as pyloro- diosis or pyloroplasty are followed by relapse in many cases, and should not be considered. In cases in which the dilatation is due to mobility of the right Idd- ney, this organ should be fixed before resorting to further treatment. In cases due to disease of the gall-bladder, the removal of gall-stones and division of adhesions may suffice to cure. If the obstruction is due to congenital narrowing of the pylorus or to the " fibrous" variety of stricture, gastro-duodenostomy by Finney's method is the best operation, restoring the condition of the parts as nearly as possible to normal. When, owing to the presence