685 ISGHIO-RECTAL ABSCESS open into the anal canal should be anticipated in the treatment, which consists in freely opening the abscess into the anal canal by a radial incision. The incision is entirely superficial to the external sphincter muscle. 2. Ischio-Rectal Abscess The ill-nourished condition of the fat of the iscliio-rectal fossa predisposes it to infection. The infection may arise from any inflam- matory process in the lower part of the bowel, and it extends to the fossa via the weak point in the bowel wall, i.e. the interval between the two sphincter muscles. Etiology.—An inflamed internal pile, an ulcer in one of the sinuses of Morgagni, the upper extremity of an anal fissure, or ulceration fol- lowing operations, may all cause an ischio-rectal abscess. But frequently none of these lesions is found, and in all probability bacteria can escape through the bowel wall with- out any recognizable lesion of the latter. A little accu- mulation of feecal material in one of the sinuses of Mor- gagni may excite some in- flammation from wliich the fossa may be infected. Rarely a foreign body has been known to perforate the bowel wall, and has been found in the pus of the abscess. The bac- terium causing the suppura- tion is either the Bacillus coli, or the common pyogenetic coccus alone or in association with the former. Suppuration tends to spread (1) towards the skin over the fossa ; (2) towards the bowel, usually between the two spliincters, or occasionally through the fibres of the external or internal sphincter, the site of pointing or rupture being determined often by that of the origin of the infection ; (3) less commonly between the levator ani and the ano- coccygeal ligament posteriorly, to the fossa of the opposite side ; (4) very rarely through the levator ani to the pelvi-rectal space ; (5) uncommonly to the anterior part of the perineum or labium majus. The symptoms are those attending acute suppuration. A fullness 1.5. Fig. .500.—Imaginary section, in the coronal plane, of the rectum, anal canal, and perirectal tissues, illustrat- ing the various positions of abscesses. I.T., Ischial tuberosity ; E.S., external sphincter muscle ; I.S., internal sphincter muscle ; L.A., levator ani muscle ; O.I., obturator internus muscle ; F., fascia covering the obturator internus and levatores ani muscles; p., peri- toneum. The shaded areas represent abscesses, which are thus seen in the submucous tissue, at the anal margin, under the skin a little distance from the anal margin, in the ischio-rectal fossa, and between the levator ani muscle and the peritoneum, the potential pelvi-rectal space.