508 THE INTESTINES obstruction can be definitely excluded. If any doubt remains, an exploratory laparotomy should be performed. TIae use of morphia and other opiates should be avoided in view of the neurotic temperament of most of these patients, and if one full dose fails to give relief, the diagnosis of enterospasm has almost cer- tainly been wrong. Belladonna, hyoscyamus, and similar drugs relieve the spasms in true enterospasm, and their use may be supplemented by hot baths. Any co-existing inflammatory affection of the colon must, of course, be treated. INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS CHEONIC COLITIS The term " chronic colitis " is, for convenience, applied to a con- dition in which the patient complains of recurring attacks of severe colicky pain, associated with the passage of an excessive amount of mucus in the stools, without there being any gross pathological lesion to accoimt for the symptoms. It cannot be too strongly emphasized that a diagnosis of " chronic coHtis " should never be made until all the other affections of the bowel that may give rise to a similar train of symptoms have been excluded. These include mahgnant disease (p. 527), tuberculosis either of the hypertrophic or of the ulcerative type (p. 510), fibro- matosis of the colon (p. 515), chronic appendicitis (p. 552), and locaUzed peritonitis, or abscess in the vicinity of the colon. Clinical features.—The severity of the symptoms varies in different cases, and even in the same patient at different times, and the disease tends to run a protracted course. In the less severe form, which is the form usually met with in men who show no signs of neurasthenia, and are in other respects healthy, the patient complains of persistent abdominal discomfort, not amount- ing to pain, particularly after meals. The appetite is poor, and there is a tendency to constipation with flatulent distension. There are, however, occasional attacks of looseness of the bowels with pain and tenesmus, the motions consisting largely of mucus. The patient loses flesh rapidly, and often becomes markedly depressed or even melancholic. The local symptoms may be referred to the right iUac fossa, and it is then difficult to distinguish this condition from chronic appendicitis, with which indeed it is often associated, but whether as cause or effect it is impossible to say. The more severe and typical form is most frequently met with in middle-aged women belonging to the upper classes, of a markedly neurotic temperament and in a poor state of health. It is common to find some uterine displacement or evidence of other pelvic disease