LINGUAL ULCERS 185 upon the depth of the ulcer and also the state of the sensory nerve filaments of the papillas. Any irritant food sets up a burning pain which lasts for some time, especially if the fissure is a deep one and particles of food become lodged in its depth. The general lines of treatment are the same as for leucoplakia {see above), but in addition the floor of the ulcer must be carefully cleansed and local treatment in the shape of chromic acid paint, 5-10 gr. to the ounce, undertaken regularly niglit and morning. This application is certainly one of the best, for, in addition to its marked healing properties, it allays the pain and irritability of the ulcer. The local treatment must be undertaken with great patience and discrimination if a good result is to accrue, and it is safe to say that no two cases react alike to the applications. In some patients a weak carbolic lotion, 1-80, will succeed when the chromic acid fails; in others more good will follow the use of a little iodoform powder, tannic acid, or chlorate of potash. Dilute glycerine of tannic acid is of great service in many of the ulcerated conditions of the tongue. Nitrate of silver, except in very dilute solution (1-500), should never be used. Again, it must be borne in mind that, even when these ulcers and fissures occur in syphilitic subjects, the mere exhibition of mercury and iodides is insufficient to effect a cure ; nay, more, by their powerful action on the oral mucous membrane they may make thihgs worse— a point to be kept carefully in mind in treating syphilitic ulcers in the mouth. In such cases the local treatment should be as advised above. Chromic acid is of great value in many of the specific lesions of the mouth. In cases where the ulcer resists all treatment or relapses frequently, especially if the edges become indurated, it should be excised by means •of elliptical incisions, and the edges of the wound should be brought together by silk sutures after ligation with catgut of any vessels that require it. The stitches should be removed in four days. DYSPEPTIC ULCERS Arise in severe or exaggerated forms of dyspeptic glos.sitis in which the surface excoriations break down into true ulcers. They are usually situated near the tip, and appear as small, circular, punched-out mul- tiple ulcers, with a red areola, associated with a general redness or beefiness of the anterior part of the tongue, the posterior part being covered with a thick, imhealthy fur. Some patients seem possessed of an idiosyncrasy in regard to certain articles of food, which have a regular tendency to produce such ulceration. The general treatment is the same as for dyspeptic tongue, but here local treatment with nitrate of silver is very beneficial.