THE APPENDIX 550 Surgical treatment of acute appendicitis.—The best time for operation is during the first twenty-four hours of the attack, and the earlier the better. The advantages are obvious, for not only is the mortality in this stage no greater than that of " interval" appen- dicectomy, but the patient is saved from the risks of diffuse peri- tonitis and abscess formation, the attack is cut short, and the abdo- minal wall is not weakened by the use of drainage tubes. Cases not seen or not recognized until the third, fourth, or fifth day of illness present greater difficulty. The attack may then be about to subside ; a small localized periappendicular abscess may have opened into the bowel; or the appendix may be deeply situated amongst adhesions and surrounded by a small localized collection of pus, the disturbance of which might possibly prove to be the starting-point of a diffuse peritonitis. The difficulty of decision may be increased by the previous administration of opium ; this may be completely mask- ing symptoms which, in the absence of this disturbing factor, would indicate immediate operation, such as vomiting, increasing distension and rigidity, and an accelerating pulse-rate. The operation for acute appendicitis within the first few hours of the onset differs in no essential respect from that of an interval appendicectomy, provided that perforation and gangrene have not taken place. When these gross changes have occurred, as they occa- sionally do even at so early a stage, the operation must be completed in the manner described under the next heading. Treatment of acute appendicitis with diffuse peritonitis. ■—Immediate operation is the only course to be adopted, for the delay of even two or three hours may turn the scale between recovery and death. The operation embraces two essentials, namely, the removal of the appendix and the treatment of the peritoneum. These, together with the after-treatment, are described under Peritonitis (p. 569). The mere opening and draining of the abdomen in the right iliac fossa without removal of the appendix has been recommended in the belief that in desperate cases the immediate danger is thus best tided over. Statistics show this view to be erroneous. During the years 1894 to 1903, 38 cases were so treated at St. Thomas's Hospital, with a mortality of 97'3 per cent. Contrasted with this result, the operation of removal of the appendix, combined with some attempt to cleanse the peritoneum during the same period, showed a mor- tality of 81'2 per cent. These cases were almost all subjected to general lavage of the peritoneal cavity, a procedure which is now recognized to have been wrong, and which doubtless contributed towards that exceedingly high mortality. Since the adoption of strictly local treatment of the peritoneum, generally by dry swabbing, the death-rate has fallen in the striking manner indicated in the