OPERATION FOR MAMMARY CANCER 87 Rapid microscopical examination.—If naked-eye inspec- tion does not resolve doubts as to the nature of the tumour, it is, I think, better as a general rule to sew up the wound and defer tlie operation for a few days until a paraffin section of the excised j^iece has been made. But if a skilled pathologist is available an immediate examination should be made in the theatre by one of the rapid freezing methods, perhaps the best of which is Leitch's. The method is not to be relied upon unless the observer has had long practice in the examination of frozen sections—a fact aclmowledged by its pioneer, Ernest H. Shaw. Few pathologists possess the necessary experience, and for this reason the method, though ideal, is at present not generally applicable. Principles of the operation for breast cancer.—While many technical variations are possible in the operation for breast cancer, especially as regards the planning of the sldn incision, certain general principles determined by the mode of spread of the disease must be held inviolable. The aim of the operation is not merely to " amputate the breast," though this is in all cases necessary, but to remove intact the fernieated area of the lymph-vascular system which surrounds the primary growth, in one piece %vith the lymphatic glands ivhich may have been embolically invaded along the trunk lymphatics of the permeated area. To attain this object certain points must be sjsecially borne in mind. 1. TJie area of tlie operation must he concentric with the grouih. Only when the growth itself is central must the nipple be taken as the central point of the area of skin and subjacent tissue to be ablated. 2. The area of tissue removed must approximate to a circle in shape, in view of the centrifugal spread of permeation. 3. Since permeation spreads primarily by way of the deep fascial lymphatic plexus, the ablation of tissue must be most extensive in the plane of the deep fascia, and the area of fascia removed must be a circle. 4. Smaller circular areas of skin and of muscle also recjuire re- moval, on account of the secondary invasion of these layers from the permeated fascial plexus. 5. The skin incision, subject to the preceding condition, should afEord convenient access, and should not be so placed that the scar will lie along the anterior axillary fold, since in this situation it will tend to bind the arm to the side. It may here be repeated that the very extensive ablation of skin carried out by some surgeons, based upon erroneous ideas concerning dissemination, is not found in practice to improve the results of the operation.