137 OPERATION FOR HARE-LIP the raw surfaces that the edges of the vermilion border are brought into accurate apposition and form a continuous line. To obtain this desir- able end, the first suture should enter the lip exactly at the junction of its red border with the skin on one side, and emerge at a corre- sponding point on the opposite side. When the method of closing the defect depends upon apposition of two inverted flaps, as in Fig. 308, it is important to see that they project below the margin of the lip in the form of a well-marked papilla, otherwise the cicatricial con- traction that follows healing will leave an unsightly notch in the red margin. The remaining sutures are then passed deeply into the sub- ■stance of the lip, but they must not penetrate the mucous membrane. Finally, the whole lip is everted and the mucous membrane on its ■deep aspect is united by a few fine sutures. Fine silkworm-gut, -technically designated " ophthalmic," forms the best suture material, being pliant, non-irritating, and easily removable. Hare-lip pins are now obsolete. Dressing the wound.—In ordinary circumstances the wound is better left uncovered, so that it may be frequently and easily cleaned with a damp sponge. The doubtful advantages tliat accrue from the use of a strip of gauze, soaked in collodion or Whitehead's varnish, and fixed by a dumb-bell-shaped piece of strapping so applied as to relieve tension, are neutralized by the ease with which particles of food, or mucus from the nose and mouth, collect beneath the ■dressing and infect the wound. Before the child leaves the operating table, the depression beneath the lower lip should be well painted with tliick collodion. This, by contracting as it dries, produces an amount of eversion of the lip just sufficient to leave an airway into the mouth and so minimize the danger of asphyxiation, for, imme- diately after closing the cleft, the upper lip is somewhat tightly stretched across the alveolus, possesses little if any movement, and, by the increase in its depth (i.e. height), is in close contact with the floppy, redundant lower lip, wliich is sucked against it at every inspiration until consciousness returns. After-treatment.—For the first few days after the operation the child must be nursed and coaxed as much as possible in order to reduce the amount of its crying to a minimum, otherwise some, or possibly all, of the sutures may tear out. In the event of such a catastrophe, the surgeon must wait until the raw surfaces are covered with healthy granulations, and then readjust them with the aid of sutures and adhesive strapping. Feeding is best carried out with a small spoon, or a drinking-cup provided with a long piece of india- rubber tubing, until such time as the child can be put to the breast again. In cases of incomplete cleft of slight degree this may be permissible in three or four days, but in the severer grades eight