835 RENAL CALCULUS minal muscles are rigid and the thigh flexed. There may be intense desire to micturate, but anuria may be present. If unrelieved by treatment, the attack lasts for one or several hours, and then ceases suddenly or gradually. After an interval a cjuantity of blood-stained urine may be passed. Referred pain may be observed in the testicle, labium, thigh, leg, sole of the foot, or heel. There may be bladder pain and irritation when the bladder is healthy. Pain may be referred to the second kidney, but if that organ is healthy the referred pain is always accompanied by pain in the diseased kidney. Haematuria is present in less than half the cases. It is micro- scopic, moderate, or copious, and is intimately connected with movement and exertion. Pyuria may be moderate, but if there is pyonephrosis it is abundant and intermittent. The urine is usually acid, rarely alkaline and decomposing. It may contain hyaline casts, crystals of calcium oxalate, or uric acid. Phosphaturia may be present. Polyuria is a late symptom, and calculous anuria may supervene. The kidney is occasionally tender, and the abdominal muscles rigid. An abdominal tumour may be formed, and rarely a large collection of stones is felt as a hard, irregular, craggy, grating mass. On cystoscopic examination there is unilateral hpematuria or pyuria. Elongation of the ureteric orifice and inflammation surrounding the opening may be observed. Radiography shows a calculus shadow. Course and complications.—As the stone increases in size the pain diminishes. Renal calculus may exist for years without causing grave inconvenience. The complications that may occur are —(1) migration with renal colic, (2) obstruction with calculous hydro- nephrosis or calculous anuria, (3) infection causing pyelitis, pyelo- nephritis, pyonephrosis, perinephritis, and perinephritic abscess. Diagnosis.—The most important symptoms are the severity of the pain and the effect on it and on haematuria of movement and jarring. The previous passage of a calculus and the presence of numerous crystals in the urine are important. Apart from stone, renal colic may result from undue mobility of the kidney, from ureteritis, or from the passage of blood clot, debris, or large quantities of uric-acid or oxalate crystals. Renal pain may be caused by nephritis, and simulated by the crises of locomotor ataxy, by hysteria, by osteo-arthritis of the lumbar vertebra>, and by hepatic colic. The final test is the X-ray examination. In cases where cystitis is the prominent feature the cystoscope will show a purulent efflux on one side, which will lead to a diagnosis.