OPERATIONS FOR UMBILICAL HERNIA 629 Where the hernia has attained to rather larger dimensions, various attempts have been made to strengthen the abdominal wall by the overlapping of its aponeurosis ; but in view of the brilliant results achieved by Bartlett's method (see below), and of the great tendency of all umbilical and ventral hernias to recur, the wisdom of these operations is doubtful, since, in the event of recurrence after their per- formance, the accomplishment of Bartlett's method is rendered much more difficult. The best of these overlapping operations is that of WilUam Mayo. The incisions are transverse and elliptical, and are carried down to the neck of the sac, after which the aponeurotic surfaces are cleared for a distance around this point. The sac, its coverings, and its omental contents, are removed by a circular incision without dissection. A transverse incision is made through the abdominal aponeurosis (posterior rectus sheath) for an inch or less on either side, and the peritoneum is separated from the upper of the two flaps thus made. Sutures are now passed through the aponeurotic layer of the upper flap, about 3 in. from its free margin from without inwards, then through the free margin of the lower flap, and back again through the upper flap from within outwards, and are suffi- ciently drawn upon to approximate the peritoneal edges, which are closed by a continuous suture. This done, the sutures are so tightened that the lower aponeurotic flaji is drawn into the space between the upper flap and the peritoneum, where it is fixed. The free margin of the upper flap is then sutured to the surface of the aponeurosis below, and the skin incision finally closed. The operation is not suitable for very large hernias, and the separation of the peritoneum is frequently difficult owing to old adhesions. Bartlett's method of filigree implantation: author's modification.—For liernias whicli have grown so large that any prospect of cure by ordinary means is out of the question, this method is the only one which can be relied upon. It is simple and extremely effective, but often necessitates a very extensive and tedious operation. The filigree which I use (Fig. 463) is a modification of Willard Bartlett's original pattern in that it is barrel-shaped in outUne, and has two side ribs as well as a mid-rib. It is made in precisely the same manner as the filigrees for inguinal hernia (p. 624), except as regards shape and size. The method is in all respects that of Bartlett, except that the fihgree is implanted between the rectus muscle and the posterior layer of its sheath, instead of upon the peritoneum. The operation is conducted in precisely the same manner as already detailed for small hernias, except that the incision must be very much more extensive, often indeed from the ensiform cartilage to the pubes