98o THE SCROTUM allowed to gape widely and bleed freely. Afterwards the patient should sit in a hot bath for several hours a day, and in the intervals fomentations should be applied. If sloughing occur, the treatment should be continued, and it will always be found that the testicles are covered without the need of skin grafts. MALIGNANT GROWTHS Two forms of malignant growth are met with in the scrotum, squamous-celled carcinoma (epithelioma) and melanotic sarcoma, the former being by far the more common. Squamous-Celled Caecinoma— " Chimney-sweep's cancer"—has the same structure and clinical course as similar growths on other parts of the skin. It occurs most frequently in men engaged in occupations in which it is difficult to keep the sldn clean, such as chimney-sweeps, tar, gas, and paraffin workers. Not infrequently the disease shows two distinct stages. At first there is a soft warty growth of innocent nature, which may grow for a time and then easily be knocked off, leaving a pigmented eczema- tous patch (tar-worker's molluscum and tar-worker's eczema). The disease may remain for a long time at this stage, but sooner or later ulceration takes place, and the well-known characters of a squamous- celled carcinomatous ulcer appear. The disease may also start as a papillomatous growth, or as a small subcuticular nodule, as in other parts of the skin. The inguinal glands become enlarged at fijst by inflammation, but later they are invaded by the malignant growth, and become hard, matted, and fixed. The disease is limited for a long time to the scrotum and inguinal glands, and metastases in other organs are uncommon, The neoplasm is, as a rule, of very slow growth, and the patient may have given up the dangerous occupation for some years before it appears, but microscopic examination of the skin of the scrotum of a sweep will usually reveal soot in the cells which no amount of washing will remove. Treatment.—Prophylactic treatment consists of the exercise of great cleanliness by people engaged in the dangerous trades, and the thorough removal of all papillomatous growths as soon as they appear. If squamous-celled carcinoma is diagnosed, the growth should be excised with a large area of the surrounding skin, and at the same time the superficial inguinal glands should be removed from both groins. If the growth has become adherent to one of the testes, the gland should be removed without hesitation. Melanotic Sarcoma Although the scrotum is, as a rule, deeply pigmented, melanotic sarcoma is not common. If it occur it has the same characters and