94 THE BREAST Treatment of inoperable breast cancer. — In cases wliere complete removal of the growth is impossible, all that remains is to make the patient as comfortable as possible, and to endeavour to delay the march of the disease. X-rays in inoperable carcinoma—The principal use of X-rays in breast cancer is as a prophylactic against postoperative recurrence. But even in advanced cases they are often an effective means of relieving pain. I have known pain in the back and thorax completely disappear for a time after one application of the rays, although the patient was utterly sceptical of the value of the treatment. In some cases, however, especially when pain is due to pressure upon deep- seated nerves, the rays are powerless. Apart from their analgesic properties. X-rays promote the fibrosis and superficial healing of deposits in the sldn and subcutaneous tissues. Upon visceral and other deep deposits they have no influence, nor do they appear to delay the course of dissemination. Open-air treatment.—I have a strong impression that the dis- ease runs a slower course in rural than in urban patients. Moreover, I have observed that a sea voyage or a stay in the country sometimes retards its progress. The resemblance of the reactive or defensive processes in cancer to those seen in tuberculosis also strongly suggests the advisability of systematic open-air treatment in the more chronic cases of inoperable cancer. Experience has convinced me of its value in checking the disease. Drug treatment—It was formerly the practice to resort to morphia as soon as pain began to interfere with sleep. This practice s much to be deprecated, for the drug soon impairs the personality of its habitues, and interferes with the action of the stomach, bowels, and Iddneys, thus accentuating the toxic or cachectic condition which may be already present. Phenacetin at night, alone or combined with caffeine, will generally give sufficient relief to allow of sleep. Aspirin may be tried, but my own experience of it is disappointing. Cannabis indica may also be used. The aim should be to defer the use of morphia until the last stage of the disease. The drug will then exert its maximum effect, miimpeded by the toleration of habit, at the time when it is most urgently needed. Oophorectomy in inoperable breast cancer. — The sudden cessation of menstruation produced by tlic removal of the ovaries is known to exert a powerful influence on general metabolism, and to bring about regressive and fibrotic processes in the uterus, the breasts, and perhaps in other tissues. Since carcinoma tissue is imperfectly organized, and very subject to degeneration from mal- nutrition of its cells, it is not surprising that the shock of an artificial menopause falls with especial force upon it. As a result the primary