THE BREAST 84 is indeed the case if the growth is an actively infiltrating one. But certain exceptional carcinomas of the ordinary spheroidal type are sluggish in this respect, and they consequently acquire a fibrous capsule, sometimes almost as definite as that of a fibro-adenoma. The capsule may be complete, even upon histological examination (Fig. 281), and in such cases tlie tumour is mobile and may even be enucleated without much difficulty. Thus, after removal of the tumour, and still more easily before operation, it may be mistaken for a fibro-adenoma. An apparent fibro-adenoma first appearing after the age of 40 is more likely than not to be a carcinoma. Although these cases are exceptional, they lead to conclusions of the greatest importance : (1) In women approaching the cancer age, all rounded tumours of the breast, even those which appear quite innocent, should be dealt with promptly by operation. (2) All tumours of the breast after removal must be submitted to microscopical examination. Duct cancer of the breast (columnar - celled carcinoma).— Histologically tliis disease is divisible into two forms—(1) carcinoma originating in the large ducts ; (2) carcinoma beginning in the small ducts. In the former variety (Fig. 283) the breast is riddled with caseous areas wliich are the greatly dilated ducts filled with the caseous debris of cancerous epithelium, or with richly plicated papillomatous out- growths, or -with hsemorrhagic debris. Outside these spaces there is irregular cancerous infiltration of the tissue spaces of the breast. Such cases appear to originate as innocent duct papillomas which have undergone malignant degeneration (Fig. 282). The growths are of slow development and of relatively good prognosis. They are slow- in becoming adherent to their surroundings and in afiecting the axillary glands. They develop usually beneath the nipple, and in women over middle age. Retraction of the nipple is usually absent. The other variety of duct carcinoma—that originating in the small ducts—has not yet been clinically differentiated from the ordinary spheroidal-celled or acinous carcinoma. The liistological picture is that of small, irregularly proliferating spaces lined with columnar cells. These spaces infiltrate the breast tissue and convert the regular pattern of its lobular structure into a confused and irre- gular maze. The picture presented recalls that of a columnar-celled adeno-carcinoma of the intestine (Fig. 271). Not infrequently this variety of duct cancer is accompanied by cancerous changes in the acini also, and it may be difficult to say whether the growth is a columnar- or a spheroidal-celled carcinoma. Clinical history.—In cases of carcinoma of the breast, if there is a history of serous discharge from the nipple of some years' standing, the disease will almost certainly prove to be a duct cancer ; if Paget's