HERNIA 624 of 21 to 3 in., as may be found necessary. The wire must be of unalloyed silver, and of the same gauge for all filigrees, viz. No. 28 standard wire gauge. A board of soft wood or cork is taken, and on it is placed and fixed by pins a sheet of white paper; upon this the plan of the filigrees to be made is drawn out accurately. Stout pins are then inserted vertically, as in Fig. 461, and an odd one, the " anchor" pin (Fig. 461, a), is placed to the left of the wider end of the plan from which to start, the wire being given a turn or so round it. The wire now runs from the end pin on one side to the second from the end of the other, and so on from side to side, a pin being missed each time, and the wire being carried round the outer side of the pins. Having reached the last pin on one side, it is car- ried across to that of the other, and so be- gins to travel back to the pin from which it started, when the an- Fig. 461.—Method of constructing author's filigree. chor pin (a) is removed, and the ends of the wire are neatly twisted together round the outer side of the first pin of the row and cut off short. It will now be seen that the crossing of the wires falls evenly down the centre of the fihgree, and the mid-rib (Fig. 460, c) is attached. This is done by taking a separate short strand of wire and fixing it to the centre of the strand at the wide end ; from this point it is carried along the centre of the fihgree, a turn being made round each point of crossing of the wires, at which points it is firmly pinched by a pair of dissecting forceps to fix it in position. On reaching the opposite end of the filigree the mid-rib is finished off by being attached to the last strand in the same manner as that by which it was fixed to the first. The surplus being cut off short and the pins removed, the fihgree is complete. A little practice is required to produce the most perfect work, as the pull of the wire must be kept equal at all points and breakages avoided, since joins are not only clumsy but difficult to effect. Method of implantation—The filigrees should be placed in ether for five minutes to remove all grease from them, and should be