424 THE INTESTINES which case it is not always easy during an operation to recognize the direction in which a particular part is running, especially if the bowel is distended. Being provided with a well-developed mesentery, it enjoys a wide range of movement, and when distended it may reach any part of the abdominal cavity. The ascending colon, the hepatic and splenic flexures, and the descending and iliac portions are more constant in their position, as they are not completely enveloped by peritoneum, and are to some extent fixed to the posterior abdominal wall by areolar tissue. Blood supply.—The cfecum and appendix are supplied by the ileo-colic branch of the superior mesenteric artery, the ascending colon by the right colic, and the transverse by the middle colic branch of the same trunk. The descending colon receives its blood from the left colic, and the iliac and pelvic colons from the sigmoid arteries, branches of the inferior mesenteric. The veins correspond to the arteries. Lymphatics.—The lymphatics, after leaving the bowel, pass in the mesocolon to difierent groups of glands lying along the course of the branches of the superior and inferior mesenteric arteries. Their arrangement has been studied by Jamieson and Dobson, and is shown in Fig. 395. PHYSIOLOGY OF THE INTESTINE The functions of the intestine are—(1) to carry on the digestive processes begun in the stomach ; (2) to provide for the absorption of the products of digestion ; and (3) to excrete the indigestible residue. For the fulfilment of these functions the intestine is endowed with secretory and motor activities, and in addition the secretions of the liver and pancreas are poured into its lumen. The various enzymes act on the proteins, carbohydrates, and fats of the food, and transform them into substances that are capable of being absorbed into the lacteals and blood capillaries of the villi. The intimate mixing of the food with the digestive juices, and the passage of the chyme along the alimentary canal, are effected by the movements of the intestinal wall. Derangements may occur in the secretory or in the motor activities, or in both. One other factor has to be noted—the decomposition of food- stuffs by bacteria. This occurs normally in the intestine, and is probably essential for health. The processes consist in the fermen- tation of carbohydrates, putrefaction of proteins, and conversion of fats into lower fatty acids. Some evidence has been brought forward to prove that disturbance of digestion may be associated with changes in the characters of the intestinal bacteria. The secretion of ferments is confined to the small intestine, the