22 THE BREAST emanates from the particular orifice upon the nipple which corresponds to the diseased lobe of the gland. Such cases are often very difficult to distinguish from early examples of duct papilloma. Fortunately the doubt in diagnosis makes no difference as regards treatment; for it is a rule to which, in my opinion, there are no exceptions, that persistent serous discharge from the nipple in a woman of middle age should be the signal for excision of the breast. Physical signs.— There is a granular in- duration of the whole or part of the breast tissue, only vaguely felt when the breast is com- pressed between the flat hand and the pectoral muscle, but assuming the characters of a definite tumour when the breast is compressed laterally between the thumb and fingers. When cystic changes are present the cysts usually feel solid, and the breast feels more coarsely granular. Al- though it is often stated that retraction of the nipple and adhesion of the skin may occur in chronic mastitis, the pre- sence of these signs should give rise to the gravest suspicion of malignant disease. Nor is adhesion of the breast to the pectoral fascia ever seen in chronic mastitis. Atrophic chronic mastitis involving the whole breast may reduce the gland to a firm, " rubbery," highly convex disc, with thick rounded edges, resembling in shape the end of a lemon, and not exceeding 2 in. in diameter. This condition is only found as the menopause is approached. It is due to fibrous change retracting all the lobes towards the nipple, their common point of attachment. It must be remembered that an abscess may leave a palpable fibrous area in the breast, adherent to the skin at the point where the abscess burst. Sector-shaped indurations.—In many cases the area of indura- tion is sector-shaped. In doubtful cases I have come to rely more upon this sector-shaped induration in the diagnosis of chronic mastitis Fig. 257.—Advanced atrophic mastitis or fibroid breast. The lobular epithelium has almost disappeared, but a few dark rings indicate remains of epithelium. On the right is seen fat undergoing fibroid change.