F^CAL ACCUMULATIONS 503 of complete obstruction is precipitated by the taking of a violent purgative. Morbid anatomy.—The masses that block the bowel may be single or multiple, and they vary in consistence from a putty-like substance to a body of stony hardness. They usually form in the pelvic colon, but may eventually fill the rectum, and extend into the ascending and transverse portions of the colon. By their weight they may drag upon the pelvic colon so that it sinks down into the pelvis, and, by pressing upon the rectum, adds to the difficulty of emptying the bowel. The traction on the meso- colon causes it to elongate, and, by narrowing its base of attachment, predisposes to volvulus, which, if it occurs, sets up symptoms of acute obstruction. If the transverse colon is overloaded, it similarly is dragged down and forms a U- or V-shaped loop, which may reach the level of the pubes. The pressure of the hardened masses on the mucous membrane leads to ulceration—stercoral ulcers—the mucosa becoming eroded in patches (p. 521). Clinical features.—The condition is most commonly seen in elderly women who have for years suffered from constipation. As the bowel becomes loaded, there is a constant feeling of abdominal discomfort, the digestive fimctions are disturbed, there are flatulence and an mipleasant taste in the mouth, and the breath has an offensive odour. The sldn may assume a dirty-greyish colour, giving the patient a swarthy appearance, and the pigment is sometimes deposited in patches. The patient suffers from painful tenesmus, due to the excessive efforts of the bowel to expel its contents, and when ulcera- tion is present there are occasional attacks of spurious diarrhoea with the passage of sanious, miico-purulent discharge. The absorption of toxins is associated with a certain degree of febrile disturbance ; the patient emaciates, and becomes dull and lethargic, or even mentally depressed and melancholic. On examination, a swelling can be felt in the line of the colon, which is usually distended. There is tenderness on making firm pressure over it, and the ffecal mass may pit on pressure. On rectal examination, hard scybalte, or a soft pultaceous mass, can sometimes be felt. When acute obstruction supervenes there is intense colicky pain, and great distension of the intestines, which may displace the other abdominal and pelvic viscera and may even interfere with the action of the heart and respiration. Vomiting is a common symptom, but it is seldom urgent, and is rarely fiecal. The patient becomes collapsed, and, unless relief is obtained, the condition proves fatal, in the same way as in other forms of complete obstruction.