TUBERCULOUS PROCTITIS 697 Since pulmonary tuberculosis is usually present, the rectal ulceration tends to progress even when treated. In a few cases, under treatment the disease runs a more chronic course ; fibrosis occurs, and in part the ulceration may heal. Although tuberculous disease is often given as a rare cause of rectal stricture, the evidence is by no means conclusive that the healing of a deep tuberculous ulcer ever progresses sufficiently to narrow the lumen materially. The treatment of tuberculous ulceration of the rectum depends upon the severity of the pulmonary affection and the extent of the ulceration. In advanced pulmonary disease very little can be done, except by astringent injections, to relieve the distress caused by the constant discharge. If the pulmonary affection permits of any operative procedure, and the ulcer is of only moderate size, it may be excised. If larger, the ulcer should be thoroughly scraped and the raw surface cauterized, or smeared witli pure carbolic acid, and dusted with iodo- form powder. This may have to be repeated should the ulceration spread, or a fresh ulcer arise. When the disease is extensive the only method of cure is by complete excision of the rectum. This, in the great majority of cases, is not permissible on account of the pulmonary affection. Perirectal suppuration must be treated as already described. A third variety of tuberculous disease occurs in which the inflam- mation is limited to the shin of the anal canal and the immediate perianal region. Excluding the cutaneous affection which occurs around the orifices of tuberculous fistulse, tuberculosis of the anal skin is very rare. When occurring the disease is very chronic, involves the ana] canal, but does not tend to spread to the mucosa. The appearance resembles that of hypertrophic lupus. The bacilli are difficult of de- tection in this lesion, but the microscopic structure of the granuloma is characteristic. The affected area of skin should be completely removed. Syphilis.—Various syphilitic lesions occur in the rectum and anal canal. The primary chancre has been observed rarely at the anal margin, and even on the rectal mucosa. In the secondary period moist papules and condylomata occur at the anal margin, and may extend into the anal canal; multiple fissures similar to those in the lips and tongue occur at the anal margin, and mucous tubercles have been seen on the rectal mucosa. In the tertiary period, multiple localized gummata and diffuse gummatous infiltration may occur in the submucosa and spread deeply into the muscular walls, but they are decidedly rare. Ulceration may follow, and the coalescence of several large ulcers may cause wide and irregular tissue destruction. A gum- matous ulcer has been laiown to invade neighbouring parts, e.g. the bladder and vagina, and fistulis may occur between these viscera.