DUODENAL ULCER: TREATMENT 365 Prognosis.—Chronic ulcer of the duodenum is a grave disease. Its mortality after non-operative treatment has not been worked out as in the case of gastric ulcer, for until recently it was only recog- nized when giving rise to late symptoms—hfemorrhage, perforation, or stenosis. It is, therefore, quite impossible to estimate its mortality accurately, but if haemorrhage or perforation has occurred the death- rate is high. On the other hand, operative treatment not only offers relief, but enables the ulcer to heal. The results of operation are extremely good. Moynihan, between 1900 and 1909. operated upon 228 patients, with a death-rate of less than 2 per cent., and no death among the last 116 cases ; 163 were traced, and of these 144 were cured (79 per cent.), 18 improved, and only 1 " no better." Similarly, good results have been recorded by all who have worked at the subject. In 70 patients with chronic ulcer upon whom I had operated up to December, 1911, there was 1 death—from "aspiration" broncho-pneumonia. All are improved, and all but one of those operated on over two years ago are quite well. Treatment.—At the first attack the patient should have a thorough trial of medical treatment with rest in bed. It is impossible to estimate the prospect of success by this treatment, but it has failed to cure in many cases. Ambulatory treatment is certainly a failure ; I have recently operated upon 2 patients in whom perfora- tion had occurred while under this treatment. Operation should be carried out in all cases of duodenal ulcer in which thorough medical treatment has failed to cure. Although the condition was first treated by gastro-enterostomy by Codevilla in 1893, it is only of recent years that its correct treatment has been recognized owing, in great measure, to the work of Mo)mihan, the Mayos, and Mayo Robson. The abdomen should be opened by displacing the right rectus muscle. The ulcer is usually found on the upper and anterior part of the first portion of the duodenum. The peritoneum over it pre- sents a speckled reddish appearance, and a definite induration can be felt between the finger and thumb. When the ulcer is situated on the posterior portion of the duodenum, it may usually be felt through the anterior wall or by picking up the duodenum between finger and thumb. In many cases adhesions are present binding the duodenum to the gall-bladder or liver. In every case in which the condition of the patient permits, the gall-bladder and appendix should be examined, and surgically treated if necessary. After examining the stomach for signs of ulcer, posterior no-loop gastro-jejunostomy should be carried out. That this is sufficient in most cases is shown not only by the long series recorded in