THE BREAST 26 excluded, even in women who have reached the cancer age. In such cases I do not advise operation. Thus, deducting the cases where drug treatment is successful and those threatening or doubtful ones where operation is clearly indicated, there remains a considerable residue of cases for which hitherto no very hopeful treatment has been available. In such cases, during the past few years, I have recommended a short course of X-rays as a sedative to epithelial activity and a prophylactic against cancer. So far, in none of the cases thus treated has cancer subsequently developed. But the number of cases treated is too small to make the evidence conclusive. With regard to the clinically appreciable effects of X-rays in chronic mastitis, my experience is at present recent and restricted ; but on more than one occasion after their use I have seen indurations of the breast clear up or become almost inappreciable. Sometimes, on the other hand, the induration remains unaltered. The following is the first case in which I used X-rays for chronic mastitis :— M. F., set. 43, attended the Middlesex Hospital in March. 1906. com- plaining of pain and induration in the left breast. There was marked, though indefinite, induration of the breast, extending to its axillary tail. On October 3rd, 1906, I asked Mr. C. R. C. Lyster to give the breast six X-ray exposures of ten minutes each. The exposures were completed by October 17th. Up to October 15th the pain was aggravated, and on the 17th no palpable change could be detected in the breast. On October 31st. however, a striking change was manifest, for the left breast, instead of being more indurated than the right one, was distinctly softer. The patient, however, still complained of pain in the axillary tail of the left breast, and in this situation some induration remained. On October 31st I asked Mr. Lyster to give six exposures to the axilla, so as to reach the axillary tail, which is, of course, protected by the great pectoral when the arm is lying close to the chest. On December 10th, 1906, no lumpiness could be detected in either breast. The patient complained of pains in the arms and head, but not in the breasts. This patient was seen again in February, 1909, about three years after her first visit. The breasts, though somewhat fibroid, were quite free from localized indurations, and were practically normal. The cure may be presumed, therefore, to be a permanent one. The left breast is slightly smaller than the right. Further experience has confirmed my belief in the value of X-rays in chronic mastitis. TUBEKCULOUS MASTITIS Tuberculosis of the breast is rare, accounting for only about 1 per cent, of hospital admissions for mammary disease. More than half the cases occur between the ages of 25 and 35, and very few indeed after the menopause, though even old age is not exempt. The affection is usually unilateral. It may form the only discoverable