UTERINE PROLAPSE lOOI tlie utero-sacral ligaments ; the very strong lateral pair lie in the base of the broad ligament and are known as Mackenrodt's or the lateral cervico-pelvic ligaments. At their upper edges run the uterine arteries and the ureters. 3. Lower supporting structures.—These make up the pelvic floor proper, and consist of the recto-vesical fascia, the levatores ani, and the superficial perineal muscles and fasciae. The horseshoe-shaped gap between the levatores is filled in by the triangular ligaments, which are perforated by the vagina and urethra, while the fascia of Colles is cleft by the vulva. The edges of the levatores ani muscles are in relation with the lateral vaginal walls at a point less than an inch up that canal, so that most of the vagina and all the uterus is well above the pelvic floor, which, therefore, only indirectly supports the latter organ. With the uterus anteverted and the perineal body intact, the genital canal forms a sharp curve, concave forwards. This curve plays a very important part in the support of the uterus, which in the standing posture rests upon the pubis, the bladder intervening, whilst in recumbency it stands nearly vertical on the structures lying in the hollow of the sacrum. Uterine prolapse is due to weakening more or less of the whole retentive apparatus, for such is the reserve power of its various con- stituents that failure of one group alone is insufficient to cause descent of the organ if the others remain healthy. Thus absolute flaccidity of the upper supports is constantly seen with retroversion, but without prolapse ; and extensive cystocele and rectocele due to bulging of the pelvic floor may coexist with a uterus in normal position. Prolapse of the female genital canal may be classified under two main types, according to whether the eversion begins (1) from below upwards, or (2) from above doivmvards. In the first, the pelvic floor proper is primarily at fault, and the descent of the uterus is preceded by cystocele and rectocele. The levatores ani are separated and the perineal body and normal vaginal curve are absent. In the second type, a primary yielding of the upper and middle supports allows the uterus to drop through the vagina, the cervix first protruding at the vulva and being followed by the vaginal walls as they evert from above downwards. Where the fault primarily lies with the pelvic floor the upper part of the broad ligaments and the utero-sacral and lateral cervico- pelvic ligaments resist the tendency to downward descent, with the result that the vagina is longitudinally stretched ; but if the primary weakness lies with the utero-sacral and lateral cervico-pelvic liga- ments, the upper part of the broad ligament resists the downward