io6o THE FALLOPIAN TUBE 5. Sequestered extra-uterine pregnancy.—Where sequestra- and its symptoms, namely, recurring attacks of abdominal pain and faintness, associated with bleeding from the uterus and the formation of a pelvic mass, are those classically associated with extra-uterine gestation. The recurring pain is produced by the successive ruptures of the tube wall with each fresh outburst of bleeding, while the uterine haemorrhage is chiefly due to the leakage of the hsematosalpinx through the uterine ostium, though part of it may be caused by the separation of the intra-uterine decidua. The mass felt is a conglomerate consisting of the swollen tube, peritoneal lymph and adhesions, the matted intestine and omentum, and the blood free in the pelvis. It appears after the lapse of some days, and becomes increasingly defined and hard as the blood clots. Where a hsematocele is formed, the mass lies directly in front of the rectum, and the uterus is pressed forwards on to the bladder, but if a hgematosalpinx alone is present the swelling is more to one side. Fever is often present after the first day or two, owing to the resultant peritonitis. 3. Intraligamentous rupture. — Rupture of the primary gestation sac into the broad ligament is announced by severe pain referred to the lower abdomen on that side, and in a short time an indefinite swelling in the region of the broad ligament is felt. This swelling becomes more defined and enlarged, every increment in size produced by fresh bleeding being accompanied by exacerbation of the pain. A very large tumour may thus be formed, displacing the uterus to the opposite side, and mounting up into the abdomen behind the peritoneum to one side of the middle line. 4. Intraperitoneal and intraligamentous pregnancy.—A living gestation in the peritoneal cavity or between the layers of the broad ligament forms an elastic fluctuating tumour lying either behind the uterus (intraperitoneal) or to one side of it (intraliga- mentous). Definite uterine enlargement is present, and the signs of foetal life and active placental circulation may be detected over the tumour. There is usually a history of an attack of pain in an earlier period of the pregnancy corresponding to the rupture of the primary gestation sac. The severity of the symptoms varies : some patients suffer no more discomfort than is common in the later months of normal pregnancy; others have persistent pain or interference with the intestines amounting to partial obstruction. Secondary sacs sometimes rupture, the foetus escaping among the intestines ; or the extra-uterine placenta may accidentally separate and cause internal hfemorrhage.