FACE, LIPS, AND PALATE 146 margin of the cleft, and in sucli cases is also sharply deflected towards the left. 3. Intermaxillary cleft.—As this form of cleft is due to failure of union between the palatal plates, it is situated in the middle line, involves either the soft palate alone, or both soft and hard palates, and never extends farther forwards than the naso-palatine foramen (Fig. 317). Though the nasal septum may be free, it is more often attached to the right margin of the cleft, as in the bipartite palate. 4. Premaxillary clefts.—One variety of this malformation is due to arrested union between the premaxilla and the maxilla. The cleft extends from the alveolar margin to the naso - palatine foramen ; posterior to this, the hard and soft palates are complete and well formed. The cleft, though generally imilateral, may be bilateral. The second variety, a very rare one, is associated with median hare-lip, the cleft lying in the middle line between the two halves of the premaxilla. {See Fig. 302.) The third form is rather a gap in the lip and palate than a cleft, for it is due to suppression of the globular processes from which the philtrum of the lip and the two halves of the premaxilla are developed. (See Fig. 303.) Line of the cleft, and re. lationship to it of the incisor teeth.—Because clinicians repeatedly pointed out that the cleft is usually situated between the mesial and lateral incisor teeth, Albrecht formulated the theory that each half of the premaxilla is developed in two parts—tlie mesial, with the central incisor, from the mesial nasal process ; and the lateral, with the lateral incisor, from the lateral nasal process. Consequently, he and many others believed that the line of cleavage passes between these two portions of the premaxilla, and not between the premaxilla and the maxilla. The presence of a separate incisive bone for each tooth strengthened this theory. However, Kolliker and His have conclu- sively proved that the lateral nasal process takes no part in the formation of either the premaxilla or the lip, and that, though an incisive bone for each tooth is found, these bones are not developed separately, but are formed by cleavage of the single ossific centre in Fig. .318.—Bipartite palate. The nasal septum is ad- herent to the right mar- gin of the cleft, and is sharply deflected to the left, forming a well- marked " spur." (Fro/u a case at the Evelina Hospital.)