TESTS OF THE RENAL FUNCTION 779 take solid food. Nausea and vomiting are late symptoms. There is frontal headache. The skin is dry and harsh, and the face has a peculiar yellow earthy look in the late stages. Emaciation is often present. Hiccup and drowsiness are grave symptoms. The temperature is subnormal in all aseptic cases and in chronic septic pyelonephritis. 2. Examination of the urine.—A persistently low specific gravity (1010 or less) is a grave symptom, and continuous reduction in the urea output shows a seriously impaired renal function. In some cases poly- uria, in others oliguria or anuria, may be evidence of renal inadequacy. 3. Special tests of the renal function. («) Cryoscopy. —Cryoscopy consists in determining the freezing-point (^) of the urine or of the blood and in-ine. By this means the amount of solids held in solution by each tluid is ascertained, and an estimate of the work performed by the kidney can be made. The A of the urine lies between —1-30° and — 2-20°C,, and of the blood at — 0"56"C. There are many fallacies in this method, and it is unsuitable for general clinical use. (6) Methylene-blue test.—If 15 minims of a .5 per cent, aqueous solution of methylene Ijlue are slowly injected into the gluteal muscles, chromogen (transformed into blue by boiling with acetic acid) appears in the urine in from fifteen to twenty minutes, and blue itself is detected half an hour after the injection. The urine rapidly becomes olive green, emerald green, bluish-green, prussian blue, and finally a deep blue colour. The colour may not, however, pass beyond emerald green. The excretion of blue is at its height in four or five hours, remains stationary for several hours, and then gradually declines. It has usually disappeared in from forty to sixty hours, the chromogen disappearing some hours earlier. In pathological conditions of the kidneys the appearance of the blue is delayed, the excretion prolonged, and the total quantity reduced. ((■) Indigo-carmine solution is also used. An intramuscular injection of 4 c.c. of a 4 per cent, solution of indigo-carmine is given, and the urine is stained in twenty minutes. The elimination reaches its maximum half an hour later, and should be complete in two hours. This method is specially useful for chromocystoscopy, the depth of staining of the efflux of each ureter being observed with the cystoscope. id) Phloridzin test.—If a subcutaneous injection of 10 mg. of phlo- ridzin bo given, sugar can be detected in the urine in fifteen or sometimes thirty minutes. The glycosuria is at its height from three-quarters of an hour to an hour after the injection, and has usually ceased in two to two and a half hours. It amounts to 1 to 2 grm. of glucose. Delay in the appearance and reduction in the total quantity of sugar indicate a re- duced renal function. The lowest limit of normal glycosuria lies between 50 eg. and 1 grm., and the highest between 2 and 2'50 grm. (() Phenol-sulphone-phthalein test.^—This test is at present under trial. Half an hour previous to the injection the patient drinks 300 c.c. of water. A subcutaneous injection of 1 c.c. of a solution containing 6 mg. of phenol-sulphone-phthalein is given, and the urine collected in a test-tube containing a drop of 25 per cent. NaOH solution. The commencement of elimination is noted, and the quantity excreted during the first and second hours is estimated by comparing the urine with a standard solution in a Dubosq's colorimeter. Elimination should commence in from five to eleven minutes ; 40-60 per cent, of the drug should be excreted in the first hour, 20-25 per cent, in the second hour. ^ Geraghty, Traiif. Amer. Assoc. of Genilc-Vrinarij Surgeons, vol. v., 1910.