526 THE INTESTINES I See Vol. I., p. 505. 2 See Vol. I., p. 437. Treatment.—When a positive diagnosis is impossible, and the symptoms of stenosis are progressive, the abdomen should be opened, and the cause sought for. If it is found to be a malignant growth of the small intestine, the affected segment should be excised, and a lateral anastomosis established. Sarcoma.^—Sarcoma, although rare in the small intestine, is less infrequent there than in the colon. The growth arises in the submucosa, and may project towards the lumen as a pedunculated tumour of the spindle-celled or round- celled variety, and may infiltrate the coats of the bowel, forming a localized thickening which encircles the tube, without, however, narrowing it. Indeed, the lumen is sometimes widened at first. In course of time the growth may encroach upon the lumen and cause stenosis, but this is a late development, as is also involvement of the serous coat. Multiple growths sometimes occur. The lymphatics of the mesentery and omentum are soon infected, and metastasis to the liver and Iddney occurs early. Clinical features.—The disease is one of early life, sometimes occurring in infants. The symptoms are usually vague and are con- stitutional rather than local—progressive emaciation, loss of appetite, and great weakness. Eventually there may be irregularity of the bowels, with alternating constipation and diarrhoea, and vague abdominal pains. Sooner or later a palpable tumour is recognizable, and this rapidly increases in size. The treatment is carried out on the same lines as for carcinoma, but if excision is to be successful it must be performed early. TUMOURS OF THE COLON Innocent Tumours The same varieties of innocent tumours are met with in the colon as in the small intestine (p. 525), and they present very much the same appearances and give rise to the same symptoms. The only form that requires special mention is the multiple adenomas,^ first described by Virchow in 1863. These tumours may be present in enormous numbers, some small, flat, and sessile, others pedunculated and reaching the size of a cherry or even of a walnut. They are most numerous in the pelvic and descending portions of the colon, and as a rule extend into the rectum. While originally composed of true adenomatous tissue with a covering of columnar epithelium derived from the mucous membrane, they show a marked tendency to become maUgnant, particularly when