643 STRANGULATED HERNIA the descent of a fresli mass of omentum, and it is more commonly tlie latter wliicli is strangulated. The constricting agent is to be found either in the rigid pillars of the external abdominal ring, or in the fibrous band wliich commonly surrounds the neck of the sac. Only occasionally is the hernia strangulated on its first appearance. Owing to the wider natui-e of the ring and canal here, the symptoms take rather longer to establish themselves than in the case of femoral hernia. These hernias are usually scrotal, and on examination the scrotum will be foimd to be distended, hard, tender, dull to percussion, or, when bowel is present, with resonance diminished owing to tbe presence of fluid in the sac. No expansile impulse is felt on making the patient cough. Any attempt at reduction is resisted owing to the pain, and the patient lies with the thigh of the affected side drawn up and inverted in an endeavour to relax the tension. In many cases there is rigidity of the abdominal muscles on the affected side, and retention of urine is not uncommon. Pain may be complained of in the testis and loin owing to pressure on the constituents of the cord, and in time cramping pain referred to the umbilicus is felt. In the case of women, the ovary may be contained in the sac, in wliich case pain is referred to the " bottom of the back " (sacralgia) as well as to the umbilicus, and may be aggxavated by raising the cervix uteri per vaginam. The appendix in a strangulated hernia gives rise to no sign by which its presence can be recognized. Strangulated femoral hernia. — As compared with inguinal, this strangulation is more serious in that (1) being less out- wardly obvious, it is more liable to be overlooked ; (2) being trans- mitted through a narrower canal, it is more acute in its onset; and (3) with the sharp edge of Gimbernat's ligament always in close contact -with it, ulceration is more prone to occur early. It is seen especially in women (since in them femoral hernia is commoner) at all ages, but chiefly between the ages of 30 and 50. The tumour produced is usually qiute a small one, and if of recent occurrence may easily be mistaken for an enlarged gland ; there is, however, no periglandular thickening, in spite of the tenderness, the mass is spherical rather than lobulated, and not adherent to the skin, and unless the sac is inflamed there is no redness over it, such as usually denotes femoral adenitis. The cause of strangulation is similar to that in inguinal hernia, but the constricting agent is always the knife-edge of Gimbernat's ligament. This structure is so prominent that reduction, either spontaneous or mtentional, is almost impossible and is seldom seen. For tlus reason, too, any prolonged effort at taxis is more dangerous than in inguinal hernia ; " reduction en masse " is less, while rupture of the bowel IS more likely to occur as a result.