RECTAL CARCINOMA: TREATMENT 723 six months to three years in no fewer than 54 out of a total of 57 cases. The recurrences are found to be in the lymphatic glands of the pelvic mesocolon, in the pelvic peritoneum, and in the bowel ends. That is, recurrence takes place above the level of previous operative inter- ference, and in tissues wliich might have been removed hy a more extended operation. 2. The combined abdomino-perineal operation.—This procedure attempts to remove more thoroughly the tissues invaded by the upward spread of the cancer. There are two methods of executing it : (ff) The greater part of the pelvic colon and its mesentery are removed and a permanent iliac colostomy established. (6) Only the lower part of the pelvic colon is removed and a corre- sponding length of mesentery, the cut end of the jjelvic colon being brought to the anus and stitched to the skin there, or if circumstances permit tlie lower rectum is left and anastomosed to the pelvic colon. In both cases the removal is commenced through the abdomen. In (a) merely a sufficient loop of the pelvic colon is left to jjermit establishment of a permanent iliac colostomy. The pelvic colon and its mesentery are divided, the vessels ligatured and the peritoneum incised on either side of the bowel to the level of the recto-vesical or recto-vaginal reflexion. All the tissue is removed from the front of the sacrum. The peritoneum is divided at the base of the bladder or vagina, and the rectum separated fi'om the parts in relation to it anteriorly and laterally. The ureters will probably be seen and must be carefully avoided. When the bowel has been freed as far as is possible, i.e. to the base of tlie bladder anteriorly and to the levatores ani laterally, it is jDushed to the bottom of the pelvis and the peritoneal covering of the pelvic floor is repaired as far as possible. In the exaggerated lithotomy or the prone position the coccyx is excised, and the rectum, and as much as possible of the surrounding tissues, including a considerable portion of the levatores ani, the .sphincter muscles, and the tissues of the ischio-rectal fossc'e, together with the colon, are removed. In (6) the object of the operation is to remove the disease exten- sively and to bring the pelvic colon to the anal margin. The superior h;emorrhoidal vessels, even when the bowel is otherwise freed, will fi'om their comparative shortness prevent the colon being brought to the anus. Hence these vessels must be.isolated from all connexions and ligatured cleanly, no surrounding tissue being included in the ligature. If the artery be ligatured immediately above the origin of the lowest sigmoid branch, there is probably little danger of gangrene of the bowel to be brought to the anus, for collateral circulation is established through the arch formed by it and the lowest sigmoid