VESICAL PAPILLOMA 867 they frequently surround it and sometimes the urethral orifice. The papilloma has a central trunk of fibrous tissue, elastic and plain muscle fibres, and blood-vessels, from which branches spread out and subdivide. (Fig. 548.) The epithelial covering is transitional in type, the deeper cylindrical cells radiating in characteristic manner. The nuclei show karyokinetic figures, and there is abundant vacuolation of the cells. Small villous tumours spring up on the mucous membrane around the first papilloma, and others become scattered over the bladder. These growths are histologically benign, but many of them, in spite of their histological characters, must be regarded as malig- nant for these reasons: (1) They spread by implantation. (2) They frequently recur after removal ; the recurrent growth is multiple, although the pri- mary growth may have been single. (3) Multiple growths become sessile and irregular, and in a large number of cases eventually infiltrate the bladder wall. Symptoms. — Ha?maturia is the characteristic and usually the only symptom. It appears suddenly without an apparent cause, is little affected by rest. Fig. 548.—Papilloma of bladder continues for one or two mictu- (cystoscopic view), ritions, or for a day or a week, and suddenly ceases. The blood is copious and well mixed with the urine, and flat or irregular clots may be present. After a few weeks, months, or several years there is a similar attack of hiemorrhage. The attacks recur with increasing duration and dimin- ishing intervals. Slight aching pain in one kidney is frequently present. A pedunculated papilloma may obstruct the internal meatus and cause retention of urine, or become engaged in the prostatic urethra and cause strangury. Clot retention from excessive haemorrhage is rare. Course and prognosis.—The duration may extend over many years (ten to twenty-five years), during which there is increase in size and multiplication of the growth. The papilloma may remain single and attain a large size ; usually, however, multiple tumours are found. Recurrence after operation is common, and malignant transformation frequently takes place.