854 THE BLADDER EXTROVERSION In this rare condition the anterior vesical wall is congenitally absent, so that the mucous membrane is exposed and the urine discharged on the surface. Male infants are more frequently aiiected than female. At birth there is a dark-red, plum-sized suprapubic swelling. The mucous membrane becomes folded, irregular, and excoriated; at its margin there is a zone of scar tissue with irregular epithelial ingrowths into the mucosa. The umbilicus may be normal and separated from the open bladder by healthy skin, or the bladder may fill the entire space from the umbilicus to the root of the penis. The ureters, which are frequently dilated, open on two nipples close together, and the trigone is undeveloped. The penis is undeveloped and epispadiac ; at its base in a small pocket are the sinus pocularis and ejaculatory ducts. The foreskin is well developed in the form of an apron. The scrotum is split or rudimentary, and rarely contains the testicles. The prostate is absent or rudimentary. The pubic bones do not unite in the middle line, and may be separated by 3 in. or more. Associated deformities, such as hare-lip, cleft palate, and spina bifida, are sometimes observed. The perineal muscles may be defective, and the anal sphincter ill developed. Less extensive degrees of this maldevelopment may be observed. The condition is ascribed either to an arrest of development or to an intra-uterine rupture of the bladder following obstruction. . Symptoms and prognosis.—The conditions of existence are extremely miserable. There is constant escape of urine, saturating the clothes and leading to inflammation and excoriation of the skin. The mortality from ascending pyelonephritis is very high, but occasionally the patients attain adult life and even old age. Treatment.—Of the many operations suggested, the following are the chief types :—■ I. Formation of a reservoir in the body. A. From the bladder. i. Closure of the defect by osteoplastic oijeration (Trendelenburg). ii. Closure of the defect by flaps. (a) Autoplastic methods, of skin (Woods) or of intestine. (6) Heteroplastic methods. B. From the rectum. i. By transplantation of the ureters. ii. By vesico-rectal fistula. C. From the sigmoid flexure. D. From the vagina. II. No reservoir formed in the body. i. Implantation of ureters (a) in the urethra (Sonnenberg), (6) in the skin. ii. Nephrostomy. The operation that has given the most successful results is transplanta- tion of ureters and trigone into the sigmoid flexure by Maydl's method. The danger of ascending pyelonephritis is much reduced by retaining the sphincter action of the bladder base. Peritonitis and fistula are also dangers. The immediate mortality of this operation varies from 5-5 to 26'7 per cent. Soubottine's operation consists in making a fistula between the bladder and the rectum. By a horse-shoe incision surrounding the rectal aspect of the fistula an area of rectum is marked out, and this is folded so as to form a small bladder, the lower open end of which is controlled by the anal sphincter. The suprapubic gap in the anterior bladder wall is then closed.