FACE, LIPS, AND PALATE 142 the past, and doubtless will continue to do so in the future. When the prognathion is ill developed, obliquely directed, and rotated forwards at a right angle to the alveolar margin, there can be no two opinions as to the best course to pursue : it should be resected, but the tab of skin covering it should not be sacrificed, for, small though it may be, it will be of use in the reconstruction either of the columella or of the lip. On the other hand, when the premaxilla is well shaped, firmly attached, and only slightly in advance of the alveolar margin, it should be preserved and utilized in closing the defect, for the very fact of attaching the margins of the cleft to it will prevent its becoming prominent, and, if the operation be performed within the first two months of life, may even lead to its recession between the maxillae. It is in the intermediate type of this deformity, when it becomes neces- sary to fracture the vomer before the premaxilla can be replaced, that the difiiculty in deciding upon the best line of treatment arises. If the premaxilla is preserved, its pedicle must be di- vided before it can be forced into position, and the mobility thus acquired may persist in after- life, rendering it useless for mastication, and a continual source of annoyance to its possessor. Again, as the bone is replaced by rotating it through the arc of a circle the centre of which is at the seat of fracture of the pedicle, the in- cisor teeth, apart from their tendency to erupt irregularly, may also point backwards instead of downwards, and so be worse than useless. On the other hand, if this bone be removed, a permanent gap is left in the alveolar margin, and the width and forward curve of the maxillary arch do not fully develop. In consequence, the lower jaw projects considerably in advance of the upper, the flat, tense, reconstructed upper lip is under- hung by the well-developed lower lip, and the child starts life with a profile that is as unsightly as it is characteristic (Fig. 313). Therefore, taldng everytliing into consideration, it is of the highest importance to preserve this portion of bone whenever possible, for there is always the possibility of fibrous union taking place between it and the maxillse; and even if, in spite of this, the bone still remains mobile, it can always be excised after the permanent teeth have developed, and the gap filled in with an obturator fitted by a skilled dental surgeon. Operation for replacement of the premaxilla (von Barde- Fig. 313.—Charac- teristic profile after excision of the premaxilla and suture of the lips. (Holmes.)