SINUS 691 it entails grave risk of fecal incontinence ; tlierefore less drastic measures may be tried first. The external part of the fistula may be laid open, and the rest syringed periodically with stimulating lotions, such as silver nitrate or tincture of iodine. This will sometimes be successful. Division of both spliincters should be reserved for fistufe causing severe trouble, and should only be done with the patient's full knowledge of the possible consequences. For the treatment of tuberculous fistulse, see p. 695. Sinus The cutaneous sinus results from an ischio-rectal abscess, or occasionally from a pelvi-rectal abscess, reaching the surface through the levator ani and ischio-rectal fossa. The imperfect drainage of the sinus, the constant movements to which it is subjected, and its fre- quent extension to the sphere of influence of the sphincter muscles, are factors which tend to prevent healing. The differentiation between a cutaneous sinus and a fistula is often difficult, and requires patience and manipulative skill. Inability to pass a probe through tlie sinus into the bowel does not necessarily mean that no communication exists. The j^assage of fa?ces or flatus through the track, or the discovery of an internal opening, establishes the diagnosis of fistula. The treatment of a cutaneous sinus is very similar to that of a fistula. It must be freely opened up, and will then often be found to track towards tlie bowel, being only separated from it by a thin layer of tissue. The track generally passes towards the interval between the sphincters. When it is certain that there is no aperture of com- munication with the bowel, one should be made by passing the 25robe through the thinnest portion between the sphincters, thus converting the sinus into a fistula ; as such it is then treated. Should, however, the track pass in connexion with the bowel above the level of the internal sphincter muscle, this treatment should not be advised, for it would mean division of the internal sphincter, and in all probability incontinence of faeces would result. In such cases the sinuses may be enlarged, free drainage provided, and some stimulating lotion injected from time to time. The whole sinus wall may sometimes be excised. In the rectal sinus the aperture of communication with the bowel may be situated between the two sphincter muscles, or in close proximity, or less frequently above the level of the internal sphincter muscle. The rectal sinus results from the rupture of an ischio-rectal or a pelvi-rectal abscess into the bowel. Drainage is nearly always inefficient ; the orifice into the bowel frequently becomes temporarily occluded, and pus reaccumulates. The symptoms are those of re- curring attacks of perirectal suppuration with periodical discharges of