598 HERNIA women than in men, in the proportion of 6 to 1 ; it is, however, less common in women than inguinal hernia, and is usually met with at a rather more advanced age. The presence of a femoral hernia, owing to the depth of its origin, the receding angle of the groin, and the fact that it is rarely of large size, is frequently overlooked, and in stout patients its diagnosis is not always an easy matter. Its characteristic features are these : It is nearly always irreducible from the first; the neck is always very narrow ; omentum is its usual content, bowel being rarely found in it except when strangulation reveals its presence ; owing to the narrowness of the neck, strangulation is frequent and severe, the chief element of danger being found in the presence of the resistant, knife-like edge of Gimbernat's ligament, which tends to cut into the surface of the distended bowel. Diagnosis of femoral liernia. — 1. The resemblance of a femoral to an inguinal liernia may at times be very close on casual inspection; the distinction, however, depends on the relationship of the neck of the sac to the spine of the pubis. On careful palp- ation, the spine will be found to lie externally to and below the neck of an inguinal, and above and internally to that of a femoral sac ; but, as the latter frequently passes upwards and overlies the inner third of Poupart's ligament and becomes to some extent fixed there, careful examination is at times required to differentiate these hernias. The femoral variety is most closely simulated by the in- guinal bubonocele, but in the latter case reduction is effected by pressure directed backwards and outwards, whereas in the former the direction of pressure must be downwards ; very commonly the hernia is not capable of reduction at all. Again, an irreducible bubonocele cannot be moved in any direction, while a femoral hernia is often capable of being pushed downwards or laterally. On attempting to pull a femoral hernia upwards over Poupart's ligament, it will be found to have a firm anchorage at the saphenous opening, and the neck of the sac will be distinctly felt if the tips of the fingers are placed just over the opening and moved to and fro across it like the teeth of a saw. I have seen an irregular form of inguinal hernia follow- ing an attempt at radical cure, in which the sac descended beneath Poupart's ligament into the thigh, appearing at the saphenous opening; such a condition can hardly be diagnosed from femoral hernia. 2. Enlarged femoral glands are generally distinguished by being (a) firmer and more lobulated; (b) often discrete; (c) commonly bilateral and in association with other glandular enlargements ; (d) if not bilateral, often dependent upon inflammatory conditions of the lower extremity ; (e) not accompanied by dragging sensations in the groin or loin ; (/) often movable in any direction, or, if fixed, lacking the definite " neck " above-mentioned ; (g) prone to a rapid enlarge-