THE TONGUE 226 dissected up, thus enabling the operator to remove the salivary and lymph-glands of the submaxillary triangle at the same time. The actual operation is performed as follows : The anaesthetic having been administered (a preliminary laryngotomy or tracheotomy is not required), the surgeon divides the soft parts of the chin as far down as the hyoid bone. The vessels being secured, the jaw is drilled, without previous separation of the periosteum, below the teeth a quarter of an inch on either side of the middle line, and] is then sawn through. The two halves are forcibly retracted, the tongiie is well drawn out by a loop of strong silk, the mucous membrane snipped through between the tongue and the alveolar process, and the anterior pillars of the fauces are divided. The genio-hyo-glossi and genio-hyoids (one side only if only half the tongue is to be removed) are now cut through, and the tissues of the floor of the mouth separated as deeply as necessary with scissors or bistoury aided by the finger, any vessels that require it being tied with silk. The tongue being thus freed laterally and below as far back as is needful, the transverse section is made one half at a time, the lingual arteries being secured as recommended above. Bleeding is checked, the wound is treated by Whitehead's method, and the two halves of the jaw are united by wire; the sldn incision is sewn up, but a large drain is inserted into its lower end above the hyoid bone. There is no doubt that this operation gives an easy access to the diseased organ, and it is especially valuable when the growth extends far back. At the same time, it is open to the objections that the lymphatic glands are not thoroughly removed, that there is some risk of cancer contamination of the wound, and that the jaw is liable to necrose near the saw-cut. In cases where the disease lies anteriorly and extends to the bone, the surgeon can by a simple modification remove growth and bone in continuity. RegnoWs operation, which consists in an exposure of the tongue by a transverse incision below the jaw, with transverse division of the muscles attached to the hyoid, is rarely practised. It is most suitable in cases where the disease attacks the anterior part of the tongue and floor of the mouth. Carless, quoted by Jacobson, recommends transhyoid pharyng- otomy when the disease is far back, the anterior part of the tongue being saved. When the growth affects the posterior part of the tongue or spreads, back to the palate and tonsil a favourable result can be obtained but rarely, and very complicated and dangerous procedures, such as Langenbeck's method, of slitting the cheek and dividing the jaw, will be required if complete extirpation is to be attempted. The results