49 DUCT PAPILLOMA nipple is not retracted, nor is the lump fixed in the breast. The other signs are unaltered. Cystic duct papilloma.—If a duct is blocked by the growth, serous discharge ceases. If the papillomas possess considerable secretory power, the retained secretion distends the duct behind the obstruction. One or more cysts of considerable size are thus produced, to which the remainder of the breast becomes a mere appendage. A large fluctuating swelling is present, perhaps 4 in. or more in diameter. The solid papillomas which it contains cannot now be felt, and the history of sanious discharge alone gives the clue to the diagnosis. Retraction of the nipple and adhesion to skin and fascia remain absent. Fungating duct papilloma (fungating papillary cijstadenoma). —In rare cases the skin over a duct papilloma may undergo a kind of pressure atrophy, and may give way, allowing the protrusion of the papillomatous masses. The same result may follow suppuration of a duct papilloma. Constricted by the margins of the skin opening, the protruding mass becomes congested and hemorrhagic, and closely resembles a fungating sarcoma. It also simulates a fungating cystic adenoma. Malignancy may be excluded by the absence of fixation and gland enlargement. Microscopic examination of a portion of the fungating mass may decide its nature. Treatment of duct papilloma.—The knowledge that a duct papilloma often becomes malignant should exert more influence upon its treatment. Duct papilloma is often a very circumscribed disease, affecting perhaps only one lobe of the breast. In these cir- cumstances mere excision of the affected lobe is very tempting; but this policy is of doubtful wisdom. Since the eye is incompetent to map out the exact limits of the disease, and since early papillomas may be present in other ducts, it is much safer, in view of possible malignant degeneration, to excise the whole breast, even for early and limited duct papilloma. In young women, however, it may be justifiable to resect the affected lobe or lobes, leaving the remainder of the breast. The axillary glands need not be removed. But the specimen should be carefully examined for carcinomatous change, and if this is found or suspected the axilla must be cleared out at a subsequent operation. LIPOMA AND MYXOMA Most so-called lipomas of the breast are really paramammary lipomas occurring in contact with the breast, but not forming part of it. Myxoma of the breast is merely a pathological curiosity. It forms an encapsuled tumour resembling a fibro-adenoma.