538 THE APPENDIX the point of greatest tenderness in appendicitis. Munro's point is the spot at which the spino-umbilical line crosses the outer border of the rectus muscle or linea semilunaris. According to A. Keith, the ileo- csecal valve is the part of the intestine which most often lies directly beneath Munro's point, so that the appendicular orifice will usually be found about an inch below and to the outer side of Munro's point. Structure.-—The coats of the appendix consist of (1) a mucous membrane, containing innumerable Lieberkiihn's glands, and resting upon a very faintly marked muscularis mucosae ; (2) a submucous layer, extremely rich in lymphoid tissue ; (3) a muscular layer, com- prising inner circular and outer longitudinal strata corresponding with the muscular layers of the csecum, but differing in the fact that the outer layer is disposed uniformly over the surface instead of being grouped into distinct bands; and (4) a peritoneal coat, separated from the muscle by a small amount of subserous connective tissue. The peritoneal covering is complete, except just along the line of attach- ment of the mesentery where the vessels enter and leave the organ. The meso-appendix connects the little process to the mesentery of the termination of tbe ileum, springing from its inferior aspect, and is often so short as to render the appendix tortuous ; it is sometimes heavily loaded with fat. Blood-vessels.-—The appendix is supplied by a branch of the ileo-caecal artery, the termination of the superior mesenteric, which passes down behind the termination of the ileum, and enters the meso-appendix, to be distributed to the organ by a series of circularly- disposed branches. The veins are arranged in a similar manner, and are radicles of the portal system. Lymphatics.—The lymphatics are collected into four or five trucks which pass with the appendicular artery between the layers of the meso-appendix and travel behind the termination of the ileum to end in the ileo-caecal glands—a group of some five or six glands situated between the layers of the mesentery of the small intestine in the upper ileo-caecal angle (Poirier and Cuneo). Peritoneal relations.—The clinical significance of the various positions in which the appendix may be found will be readily under- stood when considered in connexion wit-h the peritoneal watersheds (p. 559). In addition to the meso-appendix, there is a second peri- toneal fold, occasionally well marked, which passes from the anterior aspect of the termination of the ileum to the front of the appendicular mesentery. This is the ileo-caecal fold (the so-called " bloodless fold "), which bounds the ileo-caecal fossa. The appendix is frequently lodged in the retrocaecal fossa, a peritoneal pouch which may be demonstrated by drawing the caput coli upwards. Physiology.—The appendix is a vestigial structure whose func-