CESOPHAGEAL CARCINOMA: SYMPTOMS 287 the trachea is the most common situation of cancer. Butlin points out that the lower half of the resophagus is much more commonly affected than the upper. RoUeston (Clifford Allbutt) noted that in women the upper portion was more commonly affected. Keen ("Textbook") states that in 68 per cent, the carcinoma is situated in the lower portion of the cesophagus, between the hilus of the lung and the cardia. Of 214 cases quoted by Rawling, only 24 occurred in the cervical region, whilst ^163 were in the thoracic portion of the cesophagus. Sauerbruch in 186 cases found that 26 were at the commencement, 43 at the bifurcation of the trachea, and 117 at the cardiac end. Symptoms.—A gradual onset of dyspliagia associated witli loss of flesh and strength, occurring in an elderly male patient, is generally indicative of the presence of a carcinomatous obstruction in the oesophagus. The dj'sphagia occasionally comes on suddenly. As a rule, pain is absent until the disease is advanced, but even in the early stages complaints ma}^ be made of a feeling of tightness in the throat or of vague feelings of discomfort in the chest when food is swallowed. Loss of body-weight and strength are comparatively early symptoms. The dysphagia is at first slight, but later is slowly progressive. A difficulty in swallowing dry, solid food is first experienced, then semi- solid food cannot be taken into the stomach without some delay ; later still, only liquids or very finely divided substances can pass down. At a still later stage, fluids tend to regurgitate unless taken slowly ; and in the final stages, even fluids cannot pass the site of the obstruction. Pain, as previously mentioned, is not an early symptom ; when it occurs it is generally coincident with the taking of food. It is often referred to the sternum when the stricture is in the lower half of the cesophagus ; thence it radiates to the back of the shoulders, or even up to the throat. If the growth is in the upper part the pain is referred to the neck on each side. In growths at the cardiac end, pain may be entirely absent. In the later stages, symptoms arise which de^^end on the position of the growth and its spread to neighbouring structures. An ulcerating growth at the upper part generally leads to much laryngeal irritation, distressing cough, or expectoration of frothy mucus associated with fetor. Sever^ bleeding is rare, unless a large vessel becomes involved, but blood-stained, foul-smelling mucus is brought up in late ulcerating growths situated at any part of the tube. The breath acquires an offensive fetor. In some cases the voice becomes altered and develops the character suggestive of paralysis of a vocal cord. In long-standing cases, symptoms of encroachment on the air- passages by the growth may develop.