THE INTESTINES 502 chronic enteritis, and the inflammatory products resulting from the irritation of the mucous membrane favour the adhesion of faecal particles and lead to a gradual increase in the size of the concretion. While these different concretions vary in composition, they have this in common, that they usually form on a nucleus of some organic substance, such as a fruit-stone, a mass of hairs, or a gall-stone. Enteroliths Clinical features.—It is exceedingly rare for an enterolith to give rise to acute obstruction unless it is suddenly displaced from a diverticulum and becomes impacted in the lumen of the gut, and then the symptoms are similar to those of gall-stone ileus (p. 499). While a concretion is in process of formation in the ileum, it may give rise to symptoms associated with enteritis—^recurring attacks of colicky pain, vomiting, and diarrhoea, usually coming on two or three hours after a meal, and if ulceration of the mucous membrane has occurred, the motions may be stained with blood. As it increases in size, it causes repeated mild obstructive attacks, attended with con- stipation and a moderate degree of distension, sometimes with visible peristalsis and severe vomiting. A palpable swelling, which is tender on pressure, may be recognizable in the lower part of the abdomen. When the calculus forms in the colon, the prominent symptoms are severe coUc with tenesmus, and the passage of watery stools con- taining mucus, pus, and sometimes blood. As the most common site is in the csecum, the concretion may reach a considerable size, and can be felt as a rounded hard movable mass in the right iliac fossa, which is tender on pressure. A calculus situated in the colon seldom gives rise to acute obstructive symptoms. The treatment consists in opening the abdomen, usually in the right iliac fossa, removing the concretion, and closing the bowel. It is more than doubtful if, as has been alleged, an accumulation of intestinal worms ever causes obstruction of the bowels, the so-called ileus verminosus. F^CAL Accumulations We are here concerned only with that degree of habitual con- stipation which leads to an accumulation in the rectum and colon of fsecal masses, which become impacted in the bowel and may eventually cause complete obstruction. Considering the frequency of obstinate constipation, it is remarkable how seldom the bowel becomes obstructed by accumulated fgeces. As a rule, the clinical picture is one of gradually increasing obstruc- tion, and it is probable that it is only when some additional factor, such as kinking or rotation of the overloaded pelvic colon, is super- added that acute symptoms supervene. In some cases, the onset