648 HERNIA A better method is to submit the patient to spinal analgesia, or to chloroform anaesthesia, proceeding at once to operation if taxis fails. Operative Treatment of Strangulated Hernia Precautions.—The following precautions must be observed prior to operation :— 1. The preliminary cleansing is best done by swabbing with acetone, followed by painting with iodine [see Vol. I., p. 266), witJiout the previous use of soap and water. 2. In every case where possible the patient's stomach should be washed out. Tliis is especially necessary where a general anaesthetic is to be employed, the danger of inhalation of fseculent vomit being considerable. Septic pneumonia following, or even asphxyia during operation may be the result of neglecting tliis precaution. In any case the material, if retained in the stomach, is liighly toxic. 3. Every precaution must be taken against shock, which is often marked in these cases. Extract of pituitary gland (pituitrin) may be given hypodermically an hour before operation or on the table ; while during the operation two or three pints of dextrose solution (2| per cent.), in normal saline, may be intravenously infused. The body must be kept warm. 4. Rapidity of operation should be aimed at, and no attempt made to complete the operation by radical cure at the moment if the patient is showing signs of exhaustion. 5. Since the condition of the bowel is always an unknown quan- tity, nothing should be overlooked in the way of apparatus, when it is obtainable, which may be required for the drainage, resection, or anastomosis of the bowel. In emergencies, however, wide rubber tubing may take the place of a Paul's tube; and flat pieces of wood, their ends surroimded by rubber bands, make excellent intestinal clamps. 6. Neither purgatives nor enemata should be given ; the former are dangerous and useless, and the latter, being retained, as they are sure to be, will probably be voided on the table. Kelotomy.—The incision should in all cases be a wide one ; much time may be lost in attempting to operate through a cramped space. All structures are divided down to the sac itself, from which they should be separated, provided the patient's condition does not compel haste. The fundus of the sac is then caught up in thiee pairs of pressure forceps, and is opened. This must be done carefully with the edge (not the point) of the scalpel, the fiat of the blade lying on the surface of the sac ; miless this is done, there is danger of the bowel being carried by the sudden rush of fluid under tension in the sac, or by the sudden expansion of flatus, against the point of the knife, and so being injured. The escaping fluid should be caught on a pad