POSTOPERATIVE COMPLICATIONS 635 Unless very extensive or causing a distinct rise of temperature, these hsematomas should not be opened, especially when in the scrotum ; it is almost impossible to evacuate all the clot from this region, since, besides occupying the cavity of the scrotum, it has extensively invaded the layers of the hernial coverings, from which it cannot be dislodged. It is better to use the ice-bag for the first twenty-four hours, and hot fomentations or simply pressure after this. Unless very large, these swellings nearly always subside in time. When suppuration occurs they must be freely opened, but in such cases the hernia commonly recurs. 3. Atrophy of the testis.—This is due either to (a) damage to the vas deferens by cutting or crusliing ; (b) damage to the spermatic artery ; or (c) compression of the spermatic cord by too tight suturing of the canal. When atrophy is established there is no remedy. 4. Formation of a varicocele.—Tliis is also due to tight suturing, and is, indeed, often a stage in tlie previous condition. When suturing is complete, the external abdominal ring should with difficulty admit the tip of the little finger. 5. Torsion of the testis.—As the result of twisting the organ roimd in the process of removing a patent processus vaginalis, especially in cases of retained testis, this accident may occur, the testis being finally left in the scrotum with the digital fossa, as it should be, on the outside, but with a complete twist of the cord above it. Such an accident may give rise to pain, swelhng of the scrotum, vomit- ing, distension of the abdomen, and constipation ; the case may thus resemble one of intestinal obstruction. The accident can only be the outcome of carelessness. 6. Persistent vomiting.—The importance of tliis Hes in its effect on the result of the operation. Its cause may be (a) the antesthetic; (b) intestinal obstruction ; (c) torsion of the testis ; (d) general peritonitis ; or (e) paralytic ileus. The danger of forcible and prolonged vomiting is that it strains or ruptures the sutures, tears the conjoined tendon, stretches the young cicatrix of the union, and causes fresh oozing into the tissues, all of wliich effects tend to produce recurrence. Since the introduction of spinal analgesia into my practice there has been only one case of prolonged vomiting (viz. five hours) ; this was in a woman, and was not violent. The use of spinal analgesia is a strong factor in the prevention of recurrence. 7. Intestinal obstruction.—This may result from the tying- in of a loop of bowel in the neck of the sac, or from the production of a volvulus, or the forcing of a loop of bowel through a rent in the omentum or mesentery by a rough attempt to return large masses of hernial contents. The prophjdaxis is obvious ; the treatment, immediate laparotomy.