872 THE BLADDER cannula and bulb, and, this failing, tlie bladder should be opened suprapubically, the clots cleared out, and a large rubber drainage- tube inserted. Partial operations sometimes relieve severe bleeding. Pain.—Suppositories of extract of belladonna (J gr.) and morphia (J- gr.), to which cocaine {^1 gr.) may be added, or the injection of tincture of opium (20 minims) with antipyrin (30 gr.) in hot water as an enema, may give relief. Washing the bladder with silver- nitrate solution may be beneficial, and if the urine is alkaline and phosphatic material is being deposited, sodium acid phosphate (20 gr. thrice daily) and urinary antiseptics should be given. Washing with a very weak soliition of acetic acid often gives relief. Supra- pubic cystotomy may become necessary, and is followed by continuous irrigation, a permanent suprapubic drain being established. Partial operations may relieve pain, but should be avoided when severe cystitis is present. Nephrostomy after ligature of the ureter (Watson), ureterostomy, or implantation of the ureter in the loin on one side with nephrectomy (Harrison), or on both sides (Fenwick), may be used in inoperable carcinoma of the bladder with great pain. Connective-Tissue New Growths Sarcoma of the bladder is found in infancy and late adult life, but is rare. The growth arises in the submucous or in the perivesical areolar tissue, or rarely from the intramuscular connective tissue; it is situated on the posterior or lateral walls. The tumour is pedun- culated or sessile and infiltrating. The bladder cavity may be filled with polypoid masses, and the wall infiltrated with growth. The urethra is sometimes blocked, and the polypoid masses may appear at the external meatus in the female. The varieties are spindle-celled, round-celled, melanotic, myxo- sarcoma, rhabdo-myoma, and chondro-sarcoma. Other connective-tissue tumours, such as myoma, myo-fibroma, and myxoma, are only rarely found. Dermoid cysts have been described. VESICAL CALCULUS Etiology.—The etiology of stone formation in the urinary tract is discussed under Kenal Calculus (p. 832). Stone in the bladder is less frequent in cliildren than in adults, and much more frequent in men (especially old men) than in women. Calculi are " primary" when they form in an aseptic urine, and " secondary " when they result from bacterial changes in the urine. The nucleus may be formed by a small oxalate-of-lime or uric-acid calculus descended from the kidney, or a portion of blood clot, a fragment of a catheter, a pin, a silk ligature, a fragment of necrosed