CHRONIC MASTITIS: TREATMENT 25 means employed comprise (a) pressure applied by means of strapping, or less effectively by bandages (massage is not advisable) ; (b) inhibi- tion of the secretory activity of the epithelium by belladonna and iodides ; (c) the administration of drugs which promote the absorption of inflammatory infiltrations, especially mercury and the iodides. I am not aware that fibrolysin has been tried in mastitis, and the use of this drug for other conditions seems not absolutely free from danger. The old-fashioned emp. hydrarg. c. ammoniaco, renewed weekly, is a valuable application, but is liable to cause eczematous irritation of the sldn. This risk can be minimized by antiseptic cleansing of the skin before the plaster is applied. Another method of using mercury is to apply Scott's ointment, diluted if necessary, and to secure pressure at the same time by means of strapping. Iodides may be applied locally in the form of the lin. pot. iod. c. sapone, a very clean and pleasant preparation, but not, in my belief, a very effective one. Bella- donna may be used as the glycerinum or un- guentum, combined, if necessary, with a mer- curial ointment. It is especially valuable where pain is a prominent symptom. But in numerous in- stances, more especially in cUmacteric mastitis, drug treatment seems to have no effect. In such cases, removal of the breast is often justifiable. F. T. Paul says :—" I am no advocate for the removal of the breast for mastitis in young women . . . but as regards the involution period, I strongly maintain that amputation is indicated in all cases of unyielding or very marked, and especially bilateral, chronic mastitis." There can be no doubt that such a course is the safest. But removal of the breast, although not in itself a severe or dangerous operation, is a measure to which few women will consent unless the risk of cancer is immediate and great. Moreover, there are numerous clear cases of chronic mastitis in which cancer can be definitely Fig. 258.—A breast, the seat of chronic mastitis and containing a single cyst. The case simulated a carcinoma, and the breast was therefore removed. Kl-'fom St. rhoiiias s Hospital Mii^t'um. )