400 THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM unaltered, but in the later stage shows signs of inflammation. The mucous membrane is swollen and often liypersemic and ecchymotic. The submucous coat is markedly thickened, yellowish-white in appear- ance, and soft, and occasionally presents tiny abscesses. Peritonitis is found in most of the cases. When the disease is circumscribed the pyloric end is most often affected, and a localized abscess may form. A similar condition may occur in the duodenum. Ungermann has recently collected 6 cases of phlegmonous duodenitis, in 3 of which the disease was localized in the duodenum alone. The inflammation was most marked in the region of the biliary papilla. Symptoms.—The onset is usually sudden, with severe epigastric pain, vomiting, and prostration. The pain is constant and accompanied at first by localized rigidity. The patient is obviously suffering from some acute septic condition ; the pulse is feeble, the temperature is elevated, and the tongue is dry and furred. Later the signs of general peritonitis are added. Prognosis.—No case of generalized phlegmonous gastritis has recovered. In a case of the localized variety, in which a definite abscess formed, recovery followed operation and evacuation of the abscess (Bovee) ; and in a similar case spontaneous recovery followed rupture of the abscess into the stomach, the pus being vomited. Diagnosis.—This has so far never been made before operation ; and when we consider that it has to be made from a perforative lesion of the stomach or duodenum and acute pancreatitis, it is unlikely that it will often be possible. The liistory of alcohoUsm, the frequent vomiting, and the profound general disturbance should cause the condition to be suspected. In the localized form, after an acute onset the symptoms abate, and a swelHng palpable through the abdominal wall may form. Tliis may rupture into the peritoneal cavity, causing general peritonitis, or into the stomach ; recovery has followed the latter accident. Treatment.—In the diffuse variety, if exploration is undertaken before general peritonitis has supervened, multiple incisions down to the submucosa should be made after packing over the stomach area with gauze. In the localized form, incision and drainage should be carried out. GASTRIC AND DUODENAL FISTULA Fistulae connected with either stomach or duodenum are rare. The fistula may be an " internal" one connecting the organ with another viscus, or an " external " one opening on the surface of the body. Of gastric fistulse, the internal is the more common; a duodenal fistula is much rarer, and here the external fistula is more frequent than the internal.