RECTUM AND ANAL CANAL 6/4 2. Tlie Thrombotic Pile TMs term does not always indicate the true pathology. It implies the formation of a thrombus in one of the anal veins. Tliis may occur in a few cases, but more commonly the prime condition is a rupture of a vein. The usual history is that more or less suddenly, and generally during some straining effort, there appears at the anal margin a swelling which consists of extravasated blood, fluid, tense and cystic at first, but later clotted and more firm. Should the swelling be a primary intravenous thrombosis, it is comparatively smaller and not cystic. Although generally single, occasionally more than one swelling may form. The tumour is tender and painful, especially during defsecation, which is therefore postponed as long as possible. Walldng aggravates the pain, and sitting may be impossible. The terminations are : (1) Resolution. This may occur if the swelling is small, and irritation and constipation are prevented. Some three or four weeks are required before the blood is completely absorbed. (2) Suppuration. The clot becomes infected with pyogenetic organisms, and an anal abscess results (p. 684). (3) The clot is incompletely absorbed, being transformed into fibrous tissue. A variety of cutaneous pile is thus formed {see below). (4) Rarely the skin gives way, the clot is extruded, and a natural cure results. The treatment is at first symiatomatic. Daily easy action of the bowels should be ensured by a mild aperient. Pain should be relieved by the application of lead lotion, or sometimes hot moist applications are more gTatifying. No further treatment is required in most cases. Should, however, the swelling show no sign of diminish- ing in a few days, the overlying skin should be anaesthetized with eucaine, and incised in a direction radiating from the anal margin. The clot should be expressed, and the cavity allowed to heal from the bottom. The condition is liable to recur, therefore straining efforts and constipation are to be avoided. 3. Cutaneous Piles or Redundant Folds of Perianal Shin In appearance the folds are an exaggeration of those normally present around the anal margin. In structure there is an increase of connective tissue; there is also in some cases a dilatation of the anal veins, but this is by no means constant. Etiology.—As indicated above, the cutaneous pile may arise from the thrombotic one, either by the organization of the clot or by increase in the surrounding tissues due to the irritation caused by it. In other cases constipation is the prime factor. Excoriation of the skin of the anal margin by the passage of hard fsecal masses leads to a mild infection, and therefore to some cedema of the