THE BREAST 14 females with supernumerary nipples. The accessory structures are most often found along a line leading from the axilla downwards and inwards to a point a few inches above the umbilicus. A case has been recorded in which five breasts were present, four of them functional. The fifth and lowest was median, and situated 5 in. above the umbilicus. Champneys has shown that during pregnancy the axillary sebaceous glands frequently become enlarged and lumpy, and that occasionally true milk may be expressed from the hypertrophied glands. Bryant has pointed out that certain cases of carcinoma resembling breast cancer, but primary in the axilla, may originate from such abnormal sebaceous glands. HYPERPLASIA OR HYPERTROPHY OF THE BREASTS This is a rare affection met with both in single and in married women, and is usually bilateral (Fig. "252). In the most marked cases the breasts within a few months may attain such an enormous size that they become a serious encumbrance, causing pain, dyspnoea, and palpitation. In Esterle's case, quoted by Rodman, they attained a combined weight of 30 lb. within little more than three months. In Delfis' case, occurring in a pregnant woman, the mammae rested upon the thighs when the patient sat down. The disease comes on most frequently about puberty, or during pregnancy. The cases associated with pregnancy, though more rapid in their evolution, are favourable in this respect, that the hypertrophy may subside after parturition, whereas in other cases it is permanent and usually progressive. The enlargement depends upon a general overgrowth of the fibrous tissue of the mammae, but in the cases associated with pregnancy true glandular hypertrophy may be present. Trea>tni6nt.—Pressure, mechanical support, and the administration of iodides may suffice in the milder cases, but the only treatment which has proved effective in well-marked examples is amputation of the breasts. The operation should not be undertaken during pregnancy. GYNiECOMASTIA A unilateral or bilateral hypertrophic enlargement of the male breast to such a point that it resembles the virgin breast of the female is known as gynseeomastia. It may occur as part of a general tendency to the feminine type, in association with a high voice, and perhaps with develop- mental defects in the genital organs. It is said sometimes to follow removal of the testicles. It may be found in men of full sexual development. Histo- logically the breast resembles that of the virgin female. Gynaecomastia probably predisposes to pathological changes. Thus, in a man, otherwise normal, who presented a slight degree of this condition, I observed bilateral chronic mastitis owing to the pressure of the braces upon the gland. DISEASES OF THE NIPPLE AND AREOLA RETRACTION OF THE NIPPLE This condition is most often due to failure in the evolution of the child's rudimentary nipple towards the normal prominent adult type. The nipple may be merely flattened, or may be represented by a funnel-like concavity at the centre of the areola. This con-