358 THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM After-treatment.—After operation tlie patient should be nursed in the propped-up position and, as soon as postansesthetic vomiting has passed off, should be given small quantities of water. It is unnecessary to institute rectal feeding, for within thirty-six hours of operation the patient should be taking Benger's food, or albumin-water and glucose. Careful attention must be paid to the mouth, to avoid parotitis. As soon as discharge ceases the tube should be removed. If general peritonitis is present, nothing should be given by the mouth until vomiting has ceased and the condition of the patient shows that feeding is safe. Continuous saline infusion is given per rectum. After from twenty-four to tliirty-six hours, if the condition of the patient is satisfactory, water may be given by the mouth, and a start made on albumin-water and glucose, Benger's food, or milk and water, but if this causes increase in pulse-rate or vomiting it should not be persisted in. On no account should aperients be given, and the resumption of food should be gradual. A continuing temperature with gradual loss of flesh should raise suspicion that a subphrenic abscess is present; this should be sought (see p. 374), and treated in the usual way. After the patient is free from danger, all carious teeth should be removed and alkalis given. Ultimate prognosis.—If the ulcer which perforated is acute, situated on the anterior surface of the stomach and capable of being infolded, no further symptoms will develop in most cases. If, on the other hand, the ulcer is a chronic one, the infolding may be difficult and part of the ulcer may escape ; for example, if a saddle-shaped ulcer on the lesser curvature perforates on its anterior wall, tliis part may be infolded and healed, but the remainder of the ulcer is un- affected, and, unless excision or a simultaneous gastro-jejunostomy be done, symptoms will recur. Perigastritis—Gastric Adhesions Adhesions connecting the stomach to the abdominal wall or to other viscera are commonly due to gastric or duodenal ulcers, but may be due to diseases of other abdominal viscera, most commonly the gall-bladder. Through the attachment of the great omentum to the stomach, this organ may be interfered with in disease of any part of the abdomen. In one patient upon whom I operated, gastric symptoms, which at one time had been thought to be due to gastric ulcer, were found to be caused by adhesions of the great omentum to the uterus at the site of removal of the left Fallopian tube. Adhesions resulting from gastric or duodenal ulcers are most common to the pancreas and to the liver ; in 123 cases recorded by Fenwick they