982 IMPOTENCE to copulate, although the semen does not reach the vagina. Impotence due to large hernias, hydroceles, and elephantiasis can usually be cured by suitable operations. In cases of obliteration of part of the cavernous tissue of the penis due to previous inflammation or to trauma, the prognosis is not good, but treatment by iodides, fibrolysin, or local application of mercurials may be beneficial. Excision of the induration is sometimes successful. 2. Psychical impotence—Impotence of this variety may be relative or absolute, and is most commonly found in men who have overtaxed their sexual power either by excessive masturbation or by sexual intercourse. The condition is full of interesting and curious anomalies. The patient, for instance, may be fully capable and active in his intercourse with prostitutes, but cannot have intercourse with his wife. In other cases, something—often of a bizarre nature—is necessary as an extra stimulus before erection or ejaculation can occur. The condition may be congenital, the natural impulse to sexual intercourse being altogether wanting, but it is usually acquired, and, with the exception of excessive venery, mental overwork seems to be the most common cause. The fear of failure in intercourse may be the cause of psycliical impotence, the patient, who may have been a masturbator or may have indulged freely in venery, being persuaded that he has lost, or fearing he may have lost, the power of copulation. This condition not seldom arises when marriage is contemplated, and the fear may be sufficient to inhibit the sexual act. Allied to psychical impotence, and sometimes associated with it, is perverse sexual feeling. The usual stimulus to sexual excitement fails in these patients, but their sexual nature is excited by circumstances that have no such effect on the normal man. In these cases sexual intercourse may fail because of the absence of the abnormal exciting circumstance, although the sexual feelings may be strong. These cases gradually merge with those in which sexual impulses towards persons of the same sex or towards animals are present. Sexual passion for one's own sex, or psederasty, may be congenital or acquired. The acquired form is usually seen in elderly people who have indulged in sexual excesses and whose senses have been dulled to normal stimuh. Or again, in large communities of men, such as in monasteries, and in training-ships and boarding-schools, the absence of individuals of the opposite sex, combined with the natural sexual cravings, may lead to acts of perverted sexual intercourse, and these, frequently indulged in, may deprive the patient of the power of intercourse with members of the opposite sex, owing to the absence of the customary stimuli. The treatment of psychical impotence consists in nioral control.