THE INTESTINES 446 hernia). Strangulation is a frequent complication of such hernias, but when the diverticulum alone is in the sac the symptoms are less acute than in strangulation of the ileum. Taxis is particularly dangerous, as the diverticulum is liable to rupture at its base ; and, owing to the poor blood supply, gangrene and perforation of the diverticulum rapidly occur. The clinical features of these various complications differ but slightly from those of the same conditions arising from other causes, and the treatment is carried out on the same hnes. HIRSCHSPRUNG'S DISEASE or "IDIOPATHIC DILATATION OF COLON" The condition known as Hirschsprung's disease is usually met with in young children, and is characterized clinically by obstinate constipation dating from birth, and extreme distension and enlarge- ment of the abdomen. The colon, in whole or in part, is greatly dilated and hypertrophied, without there being any organic obstruction distal to the dilated portion. Morbid anatomy.—Prom a study of the recorded cases, it would appear that the anal canal and rectum are usually perfectly normal, the dilatation beginning in the lower part of the pelvic colon and affecting the whole of this segment of the bowel, so that it forms an enormous loop, sometimes as thick as a man's thigh, and extending up to the right costal margin. In most cases the dilatation affects the pelvic colon alone, but in some it extends to the iliac and descend- ing portions of the colon. Less frequently the transverse colon is also enlarged, and still less frequently the ascending colon and caecum. The small intestine invariably appears normal in size and structure. The waU of the affected portion is greatly thickened, cliiefly from enormous hypertrophy of the circular muscular coat. In cases of long standing, there is considerable fibrous hyperplasia of the bowel wall—an evidence of " chronic interstitial colitis." When scybalous masses are retained in the dilated bowel, numerous irregular ulcers of the mucosa, extending down to the circular muscular coat, are present. Perforation of such an ulcer has proved fatal. The dilated bowel contains great quantities of gas, a variable but usually small amount of semi-soUd fsecal matter, and, occasionally, masses of hardened fseces. On mici^oscopical examination the mucosa shows some degree of leucocyte infiltration ; the muscularis mucosae is slightly hypertro- phied and shows interstitial fibrous changes ; and the submucous coat is more fibrous than normally, its blood-vessels are more numerous, and lymphocyte-like cells are collected round them in great numbers. The circular muscular coat shows an extreme degree of true muscular