THE VAGINA 992 Clinical features.—The girl does not menstruate, and after a time complains of periodic attacks of pain lasting for some days. These increase in severity and duration, until in advanced cases the patient is never free from pain. The abdomen becomes swollen and tender, and micturition is difficult. These symptoms are due to the progressive distension with retained blood, first of the vagina {hcemato- colpos), and later of the cervix {hce^natotrachelos) and Fallopian tubes [hcBrnitosalpinx). The uterus itself is very rarely distended. The distension of the tubes is soon followed by more or less pelvic peritonitis due to the escape of the blood through the abdominal osta {hcemitocele). On abdominal examination a definite swelling is felt. If there is much tenderness, distension of the tubes may be inferred. Vaginal examination reveals the stretched septum, bulging, very tender, and of bluish colour owing to the blood behind it. Treatment.—-The retained inspissated blood must be evacuated by free crucial incision of the septum with most rigid aseptic precau- tions ; if the cervix and tubes are distended there is a peculiar liability to ascending infection which, leading to acute salpingitis, may cause death from general peritonitis. Where hsematocolpos alone exists, i.e. where the unenlarged uterus can be felt on the top of the distended vagina, evacuation may be accelerated by flushing out the collapsed vaginal cavity with hot sterile water. If, however, there is any suspicion that the uterus itself is distended, it is better not to douche, lest the fluid be driven up the distended tubes. In these cases the vagina should be simply allowed to drain, the patient being kept in the sitting posture. ABSENCE OF THE VAGINA, COMPLETE OR PARTIAL The whole vagina, or its upper, middle, or lower third, may be absent. The defect is due to failure in the complete formation of the Miillerian ducts. Clinical features.—Patients sufiering from this deformity seek advice on one of three grounds—(1) amenorrha?a, (2) symptoms of retained menstrual blood, or (3) marital difficulty. Treatment.—Since these graver vaginal defects are commonly associated with uterine maldevelopment, symptoms due to retained menstrual blood are not usual. In such circumstances plastic opera- tion attempts are of doubtful value, for, apart from the difficulty of fashioning a serviceable canal, these patients are in nature sexually deficient and unsuited for married life. Where, however, a functional uterus is indicated by the presence of a cystic tumour and recurring monthly pain, completion of continuity of the genital canal is worth attempting, if the defect is not more than 2 in. long.