769 CHRONIC PANCREATITIS reaction is only a link in the chain of evidence. Some reject it as valueless and misleading in diagnosing pancreatitis. But a typical positive reaction with a negative control is strongly suggestive of inflammatory disease of the pancreas. Moynihan sums up thus: " If azotorrhcea and steatorrhcea are simul- taneously present, the evidence in favour of pancreatic disease is strong ; if also the pancreatic action is present, the evidence is conclusive." Clinical features—The cases vary very mucli in their onset, and may usually be divided into the following groups :— 1. Those in which attacks of pain are the main feature. 2. Those in which the first definite symptom is jaundice. 3. Those with general failure of health and possibly glycosuria. 4. Cases accidentally discovered at operation, in which the symp- toms of gall-stones have masked those of tlie pancreatitis. In the first group the condition probably begins as a subacute infection, which quietens down as it becomes chronic. The attacks of pain may be due to little outbursts of inffammation or to the gall- stones, the original cause. In these cases there are often attacks of shivering, and in the later stage there are apt to be the general symptoms mentioned in the third group. The second group includes the cases in which the condition is most commonly mistaken for cancer. Jaundice may gradually deepen with- out intermission, and the patient rapidly waste. If, in these circum- stances, the gall-bladder be distended, cancer is closely simulated. In the third group there is extreme weakness and emaciation, with loss of appetite and loathing of food. The skin assumes an earthy hue, there are alterations in the urine and fseces, and there may be diabetes. Many cases, undoubtedly, fall into the fourth group, and are dis- covered during operations. But the surgeon must not be led into diagnosing chronic pancreatitis from undue hardness of the gland without the confirmatory evidence aiforded by an examination of tlie faeces and urine. Physical signs.—In any of these groups an enlargement of the pancreas may be felt, the gland being swollen and tender. The enlargement varies from time to time, and may even vanish and reappear. Tliere may be no tumour, but tenderness in the epigastrium or just above and to the right of the umbilicus. In cases with jaundice the gall-V)ladder is usually felt to be distended. Prognosis. — Chronic pancreatitis is rarely a direct cause of death, but often leads to fatal diabetes. Treatment.—The presence of a definite mass with or without jaundice indicates the necessity for operation. Such a mass may be malignant or inflammatory ; if the latter, it may disappear after mere exploration, after drainage of a retroperitoneal collection, or after ■2x