354 THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM Perforation of a gastric ulcer occurs most often in young women ; thus, of 132 cases treated at the London Hospital in ten years (1899-1908), 92 were women, of whom 55 were between the ages of 15 and 25. The age-incidence in men is higher; in the 40 males, only 6 occurred in this decennium, 14 between 25 and 35, 13 between 35 and 45. No satisfactory explanation can be given of this difference, for of the 107 cases of chronic gastric ulcer in women treated surgically during the same time only 12 occurred in this decennium, 43 between 25 and 35, and 27 between 35 and 45, corresponding well to the ages at which chronic ulcers are met with in men, viz. among 100. 24 between 25 and 35. 42 between 35 and 45. Ulcers which perforate are usually situated on the anterior wall of the stomach, nearer the lesser than the greater curvature, and the pylorus than the cardia ; no facts have been adduced to explain why ulcers in this situation are more common in young women. Among the 28 cases operated upon by myself the perforation was on the anterior wall in 25, but in several the ulcer was on the lesser curvature and saddle-shaped. Perforations may be multiple; Deaver and Ashuxst state that in about 20 per cent, of cases two or more perforations have been found ; but among my own cases there was 1 only in which two ulcers had perforated. The immediate .cause of the perforation is the separation of a slough or spread of the ulceration, but it may occur from over-distension of the stomach, or as the result of a sudden strain. As pointed out by Brinton, it is " often directly traceable to mechanical violence, such as coughing, sneezing, convulsion or constriction of the belly." Alexander Miles found that of 30 cases of perforated gastric ulcer treated by him, in 15 the perforation occurred while the patient was at rest; only 6 were engaged in such a way as to involve muscular strain. The perforation may be acute, subacute, or chronic (the first is the more common ; among my cases 2 were chronic and 3 subacute); it is usually rounded; it varies in size, but as a rule is not larger in diameter than a small pea. The perforation is acute when the giving way of the ulcer allows the contents of the stomach to obtain access to the general peritoneal cavity. In a subacute perforation the stomach is empty, or extravasa- tion is limited by adhesions to the abdominal wall, the under surface of the liver, or the omentum. In tliis type of case recovery without operation may take place if the patient be kept at rest and starved. A chronic perforation most often occurs when the ulcer is on the pos- terior wall. There may be no sudden onset of additional symptoms, and the diagnosis may be impossible until a subphrenic or a perigastric abscess forms. Symptoms.—It has been stated that perforation may be the first sign of the presence of a gastric ulcer. In my experience this is unusual; in all the cases under my care symptoms had been present, in most for a considerable time, in one for a week only ; in a few the symptoms have increased in severity for a short time preceding