FOREIGN BODIES 337 incision, and the stomach carefully examined. After suture of a wound on the anterior surface, the posterior surface should be exposed by making a wide opening in the gastro-colic omentum. In every case search should be made for injury to other organs. If the diaphragm be simultaneously wounded, the pleural cavity should be drained. It is only in cases in which the fact of perforation is doubtful that the bullet wound itself should come into the incision. ' FOREIGN BODIES IN THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM The patients are usually children, hysterical girls, insane people, and jugglers. Occasionally a foreign body such as a tooth-plate or a piece of bone is swallowed by sane adults. The majority of foreign bodies swallowed pass out of the stomach, and are discharged naturally a few days later. A few, depending on their size and shape, may lodge in the stomach, or in rare cases in tlie duodenum. The foreign body may remain in the stomach for years without giving rise to symptoms, or it may perforate acutely, or cause ulceration, subacute perforation, perigastric abscess, or gastric fistula. In children and the insane no history may be obtainable, and the onset of vomiting and pain causes attention to be directed to the stomach. The finding of a foreign body in the vomit may lead to a diagnosis of the cause of the symptoms. '. The foreign body may be composed of hair, the so-called hair-ball, lu these cases the patient or friends may fail to connect the habit of liair-biting with the abdominal signs, and the surgeon may omit to consider this possibility, but in all obscure abdominal tumours in women it should be remembered. These tumours are rarely fovmd in men, and are uncommon in the insane. In 42 cases collected by Butterworth, 39 were females. The quantity of hair present varies : in one case operated upon successfully by Swain, it weighed 5 lb. 3 oz. The mass can usually be felt through the abdominal wall. When small it occupies the pyloric region, but as it increases in size it forms a cast of the stomach which may in rare cases extend into the oesophagus or into the duodenum (Fig. 371). Symptoms may be absent, and the abdominal tumour be discovered by accident. As a rule, however, pain and vomiting are present after food. The tongue is foul, and the patient is usually anremic. Fenwick states that the average duration of the disease in these cases is about fifteen years. All end fatally, unless operated upon, from ulceration and perforation of the stomach and its sequelse, cr from exhaustion. Concretions formed of vegetable fibres are occasionally found, 70