THE INTESTINES 436 The chief abnormal constituents of the faeces are mucus, blood, and pus. Mucus in more than a trace is present only in pathological conditions. If coloured yellow by bilirubin, it comes from the small intestine ; if white, it comes from the colon or rectum (Harley and Goodbody). In membranous colitis, greyish shreds or casts are passed at intervals. These may or may not contain many epithelial cells. According to Leathes, the casts are composed of chitin derived from carbohydrates. Fibrin is also sometimes present in the shreds. Blood in the faeces may occur in streaks or clots visible to the naked eye. In intestinal ulceration the clots are frequently adherent to mucus. If tarry, or like coffee-grounds, the blood comes from the small intestine or upper colon ; no red corpuscles are recognizable microscopically, and the blood pigment is transformed to haematin. If from the pelvic colon, the blood is not so intimately mixed with the faeces. For traces of blood, the benzidin test is the most delicate. Pus is demonstrated microscopically. The cells are less or more disintegrated according as the disease is in the pelvic colon or higher up. In malignant disease, pus and blood occur after ulceration of the growth. Bacterial Decomposition In the contents of the alimentary canal, great masses of bacteria are to be seen microscopically, and it is commonly found that patho- genetic organisms, such as the pneumococcus and the streptococcus, show a greatly decreased virulence. It is often difficult to cultivate the organisms found in the intestinal canal, though bacteria which have escaped into the peritoneal cavity through the injured intestine are very readily grown on artificial media. The bacterial masses are first met with at the lower end of the ileum, though micro-organisms are present in smaller numbers higher up. They are abundant in the colon—so abundant that on an ordinary diet they constitute 33 per cent, of the dried faeces (Strassburger). According to Schiitz, the difficulty of cultivation is due to the influence of a vibrio which rapidly devitalizes the bacteria. There is no doubt that the healthy intestinal wall also plays an important part in des- trojang abnormal bacteria and regulating bacterial growth. In health the bacterial flora is extremely constant, and abnormal varieties are soon destroyed. The normal bacteria may be decreased by diet, but experimental observation has shown that they are little influenced by the so-called intestinal antiseptics. Varieties of bacteria.—The majority belong to the Bacillus coli group. In some conditions, these may reach the blood stream, and they appear to produce mental unrest. They are excreted in large numbers by the kidneys, and their presence in the bladder