376 THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM Arising in the muscular tissue, usually along one of tlie curvatures, they are mostly single, and may project into the stomach or grow externally; the internal and external varieties are about equally common. Those that project into the cavity of the stomach rarely attain a size larger than a walnut; they frequently become ulcerated, and may cause hsematemesis or pyloric obstruction. The external form may attain a large size and may con- tract adhesions to various organs. Herman has recorded the successful removal of a tumour of this nature. Similar tumours may arise in the duodenum. The condition is met with in adult life. Fenwick states that it is more common in males, but of 27 of the 49 cases analysed by Deaver and Ashurst, in wliich the sex was stated, 16 were females. On section the tumour is firm and of a whitish colour, and under the microscope is seen to be made up of bimdles of unstriped muscle fibres mixed with strands of fibrous tissue concentrically arranged. Myxomatous degeneration may occur, and cases have been recorded in which secondary growths were present in the liver and in the peritoneum. Cysts may originate from haemorrhage. The tumour may contain an- giomatous or adenomatous tissue. Treatment. — When "internal," a myoma should be shelled out, or, if this be impossible, it should be excised together with the portion of gastric wall from which it springs. When external, its pedicle should be clamped and divided, and the stump covered with peritoneum after ligature of the necessary vessels. Twenty operations have been recorded for this condition, including 2 in wliich gastro-enterostomy was done on the supposition that the tumour was malignant. iii. Lipomas Fatty tumours may originate in subserous or submucous coats, usually the latter, and may ia rare instances become pedunculated. They form lobulated tumours projecting into the stomach, covered usually by healthy mucous membrane (Fig. 384). Fig. 384.—Submucous encapsuled lipoma of stomach. {London Hospital jMuseiuii.)