439 EXAMINATION Auscultation does not yield much information in abdominal conditions. In obstruction of tlie bowel, bubbling or gurgling soimds —" stenosis noises "•—may be heard ; in relaxed and dilated bowel, splashing sounds may be elicited on succussion. A digital examination of the rectum and vagina should be made in every case in which symptoms are referable to the intestine. Distension of the lower bowel with air or water is of doubtful value as a diagnostic measure, and is not devoid of risk. The Rontgen rays are of value in determining the presence and position of foreign bodies in the intestine. After administration of a bismuth meal—say, bread and milk with winch 2 oz. of subcarbonate of bismuth have been thoroughly mixed—the passage of the food along the intestinal canal can be traced by periodic observations made through the fluorescent screen, or by taking a series of X-ray photo- graphs. For the investigation of conditions in the colon, an emulsion of bismuth in olive oil may be introduced directly into the bowel. The results obtained by these measures, when employed for the localization of an obstruction in the bowel, require to be carefully interpreted, and they should not be allowed to outweigh those obtained by ordinary clinical methods.^ The sigmoidoscope is of great value in investigating the condition of the lower bowel as far as the pelvic colon. The long tubular speculum, which carries a metal filament lamp to illuminate the bowel and is provided with a bellows by which air can be pumped in to distend the gut, is passed with the patient in the knee-elbow position or in the left Sims' position. In the introduction of the instrument, care must be taken by altering its axis to round the curves without pressing on the wall of the gut. MALFORMATIONS Development.—In the early embryo, the primitive alimentary canal is represented by an incomplete tubular cavity lying beneath the notochord, and continuous with the yolk sac. As the embryo becomes folded in its growth, this tube is differentiated into the fore-gut, from which are developed the pharynx, oesophagus, stomach, and duodenum as far down as the opening of the common bile-duct, as well as the organs formed as outgrowths from these ; the hind-gut, from which the rectum and a variable portion of the descending colon are developed ; and the mid-gut, wliich gives origin to the remainder of the intestinal canal. At first, the mid-gut is continuous with the cavity of the yolk sac, but in time the communication becomes narrowed and constitutes the vitellme duct, a remnant of which some- times persists in the form of a Meckel's diverticulum. 1 See also Vol. I., p. 622.