ii8 THE SPLEEN GUMMA Large gummata are sometimes met with in the spleen (Fig. 292), and are not easily diagnosed without an exploratory operation. The spleen has been excised on several occasions for this condition, when the gumma has failed to respond to antisyphiUtic remedies. Some cases of chronic hypertrophy of the spleen are regarded as syphilitic, and it is advisable to administer iodide of potassium in all cases of hypertrophy of uncertain origin. NEOPLASMS HYDATID CYST OF SPLEEN Cases of solitary hydatid cyst of the spleen are rare. These growths may attain an enormous size, and have been mistaken for ovarian cysts (Plate 85). Not infrequently the cyst becomes calcified and obsolete. When suppuration ensues, adhesions readily form, and rupture is liable to take place, especially in the case of large cysts. Often there are no symptoms other than that of a tumour, although, if the cyst is large and the spleen mobile, there may be symptoms of pressure or traction on the stomach or other viscera. Fluctuation or hydatid thrill may sometimes be obtained. Treatment.—Exploratory puncture should never be employed. If the cyst is of moderate size and adhesions are limited, splen- ectomy is advisable, but considerable caution is necessary to avoid rupture in dealing with adhesions. In most cases it is safest to fix the cyst wall to the parietes, and to incise and drain. Single blood cysts, serous cysts, lymph cysts, and a few rare instances of dermoid cysts have been met with in the spleen. CAVERNOUS ANGIOMA A few cases of this rare disease have been recorded for which the spleen has been successfully removed (Hoge). The spleen to the naked eye is dark, soft, and highly vascular. Microscopically the capillary system is lost, and the blood collects in a number of freely intercommunicating spaces closely resembling in structure the corpus cavernosum of the penis. The walls of these spaces consist of thin connective tissue with an epithelial lining. SARCOMA The spleen, though sometimes attacked by secondary deposits both of carcinoma and of sarcoma, is very seldom the seat of primary sarcoma (Fig. 293).