569 ACUTE DIFFUSE PERITONITIS tinal obstruction, the clinical features of which are detailed at p. 465. In addition to establishing the fact that diffuse peritonitis is present, an attempt must be made to ascertain the starting-point of the peritoneal infection. Treatment.—The presence of acute diffuse peritonitis urgently demands operation, every hour that passes between onset and opera- tion rendering the prognosis increasingly grave. Whilst preparations are being made for the operation the patient should not be allowed to lie flat upon the back, but should be propped u^j in bed almost in a sitting posture (Fowler's position, Fig. 466, p. 639) ; if he has to be transferred to hospital a similar posture should be adopted on the journey. Oj^ium should not be given, not only on account of its tendency to diminish intestinal movements and add to the paralytic distension of the bowel, but also because it inhibits intraperitoneal phagocytosis (Dudgeon and Ross). The operation consists of two essential parts, namely, the removal of the focus of infection, and the treatment of the peritoneum. 1. Removal of the focus of infection.—If before operation a decision has been arrived at as to the source of the infection, the abdomen should be opened as nearly as possible over that point. "When the source of infection is uncertain, the most generally useful incision is that which separates the fibres of the right rectus muscle just below the umbilicus, as this allows the appendix region to be explored at once, and also gives easy access to the pelvic organs. The methods of dealing with any particular lesion that ra&y be found are discussed elsewhere under various headings, such as Removal of the Appendix (p. 554), Suture of a Ruptured Gastric Ulcer (p. 357), Removal of Suppurating Tubes (p. 1054), and so on. 2. Method of dealing with the peritoneum.—The error of attempting to cleanse the peritoneum by heroic methods of lavage has been amply demonstrated both by clinical results and on pathological grounds. No amount of washing will rid the peritoneum of infective material, while the disturbance occasioned by such manipulations tends to spread infection beyond the area already involved, destroys the phagocytes which alone can effectively deal with the micro-organisms, injures the delicate peritoneal endothelium, so rendering hsemic absorp- tion more easy, and increases the shock of the operation. Once the focus of infection has been removed, the less that is done to the peri- toneum the better, and all manipulations ought to be of the gentlest possible character. Any collection of pus which may lie in the imme- diate neighbourhood of the starting-point of the infection, and any pools of fluid that may have collected in the pelvis or lumbar regions, may be gently mopped up with dry sterilized gauze. On no account should flakes of " lymph " be peeled off the bowel.