93& THE TESTIS of urethral discharge, or, in the rare cases in which tliis is present, by isolating the tubercle bacillus from the exudate. The chronic variety of tuberculous epididymo-orchitis is the more common (Fig. 565), and is insidious in its onset. Usually the first tiling noticed by the patient is a small painless nodule in the back part of the testis, associated with a slight aching pain in the part. On examination this nodule is usually found to be in the globus minor of the epididymis, but not infrequently it is situated in the globus major. This difference of situation may be explained by the two modes of infection. Thus, if the infection spreads along the vas, the globus minor is first affected ; but in blood- borne infection the globus major suffers first, the spermatic ar- tery entering the epididymis near the upper end. Signs.—When the disease is moderately advanced it pre- sents the following physical signs : The skin of the scrotum tends to be adherent to the lower and posterior aspect of the testis; later a fluctuating swelling will form at this point, burst, and discharge pus. The Fig. 56.5.~Advanced tuberculosis of epididymis is enlarged and the epididymis and body of the nodular, the nodules at first testis. being firm, but later becoming softened in the centre. The vas is often normal, but sometimes small nodules can be felt in it, giving it a beaded feel. The rest of the cord is normal, but is sometimes infiltrated with inflammatory products, especially in cases of mixed infection. The body of the testis appears on clinical examination to be normal, but after removal small tubercles can usually be seen in it. These tubercles are most numerous near the mediastinum testis. A small hydrocele is present in about 30 per cent, of the cases, but is not a prominent feature of tuberculous disease of the testis. On rectal examination, nodules of tubercular deposit can frequently be felt in the vesiculse and prostate, and there may be evidence of tuber- culous disease of other parts of the genito-urinary tract, especially in the other testis. The disease, if not treated, usually becomes bilateral, although it is generally more advanced on one side.