28 THE BREAST areas of round cells increase in density the epithelial structures quietly atrophy and disappear, leaving a mass of tuberculous granulation tissue in which typical giant cells can now be recognized. This granu- lation tissue may vmdergo fibrosis or caseation, or from its liquefaction one or more abscesses of considerable size and lined by tuberculous granulations may be formed. The areas of fat intervening between the mammary lobules undergo fibrous degeneration. If a large abscess is formed, the overlying skin may show the clinical appearance of feau d'orange, and as seen microscopically it may pre- sent the dermal thickening wliich indicates lymphatic obstruction. Clinical features.—The first sign is the appearance in thei breast of one or more vague indurations, indistinguishable from simple chronic mastitis. It is important to note that more than one indurated area is usually present in the affected breast. As the case progresses more massive indurations are formed, palpable with the flat hand, and suggestive of malignant disease. This similarity may be increased by the presence of enlarged tuberculous axillary glands, and by the adhesion of the mass to the sldn and to the underlying fascia. The overlying sldn may assume the characteristic orange-rind appearance; But soon after adhesion to the skin has occurred a soft central patch becomes evident in the indurated mass. The sldn at this point becomes thin and reddened, and an abscess points and bursts, leaving a persistent sinus with pale flabby granulations at its entrance, dis- charging tliin pus containing caseous debris. Cold abscess of the breast presents itself as a cystic swelling with a tendency to become adherent to the skin. It is usually of tuber- culous origin. Tuberculous submammary abscess is met with as the result of tubercle of the ribs, costal cartilages, or sternum. Differential diagnosis..—In its earhest stage, tuberculosis of the breast cannot be distinguished from chronic mastitis. In the stage prior to softening and abscess-formation it may closely resemble carcinoma. The tuberculous patient is, however, generally under 35, and usually presents multiple indurations, while a carcinoma is com- monly a single lump. The presence of a central area of softening in the mass and of reddening of the skin points to tuberculosis, and the diagnosis is confirmed if pus be withdrawn by a hypodermic syringe. In very rare cases, tuberculosis and carcinoma may coexist. Gumma of the breast may closely resemble tuberculosis (see p. 29). The diagnosis between chronic abscess and simple cyst is made by ex- ploratory puncture if signs of pointing fail to give the clue. In duct papilloma, discharge from the nipple usually occurs at some time or other. Actinomycosis of the breast can only be differentiated by the detection of the ray fungus. Prognosis.—Mammary tuberculosis has little tendency to