464 THE INTESTINES 1. Acute or Sudden Obstruction Acute obstruction is always a serious condition, and is attended by a group of symptoms of which the most obvious are abdominal pain, persistent vomiting, distension with complete cessation of the passage of intestinal contents, and a greater or less degree of shock. The earliest of these symptoms—pain, vomiting, and shock—are not peculiar to obstruction, but are common to all acute abdominal affections, and are probably attributable to a profoimd impression made upon the sensory nerves of the abdomen rather than to the mere interference with the transmission of the bowel contents. After the obstruction has lasted for some time, the patient passes into a condition of collapse and the general circulation is profoundly affected, the heart's action becoming weak and rapid as a result of the absorption of toxic material from the stagnating contents of the bowel above the seat of the block. At this stage, the relief of the obstruction may not suffice to save the life of the patient, as the amount of poisonous material absorbed may be so great as to prove fatal. It is evident, therefore, that, once a diagnosis of obstruction has been made, operative treatment should be undertaken at the earliest possible moment, to prevent the patient absorbing a fatal dose of toxins, and that no operation is complete that does not ensure a speedy evacuation of the segment above the block so that no further absorption may take place. Pathology and morbid anatomy.—The most severe forms of acute obstruction are those due to sudden and complete occlusion of the bowel, as when a loop is impacted in a hernial aperture, or is snared by a band, or rotated on its mesentery, because not only is the passage of flatus and fseces completely arrested, but the vessels supplying the strangulated segment are occluded and the nerve supply interfered with. The immediate effect of the strangulation is to excite a violent peristalsis, which results in forcing on the contents of the segment below the obstruction, so that this portion is emptied and passes into a con- dition of spasm. When seen a few hours after obstruction has begun, it is pale, contracted, and empty ; and when handled, it feels firm. It is neither collapsed nor paralysed. The segment above the obstruction rapidly becomes distended with intestinal fluids and gases. The fluids consist of liquid fseces, an excessive secretion of the glands of the alimentary canal,.inflamma- tory exudate, and blood. When the disturbance of the circulation is so great as to interfere with absorption of gas from the intestine, the distension is added to by accumulation of flatus and by bac- terial decomposition of the intestinal contents. At first, the walls are thin and paje, but in the course of a few hours they become