APPENDICITIS : ETIOLOGY 541 similar lack of resistance to B. coli infection, or to similar habits of diet in members of the same family. Dietetic errors and chronic constipation undoubtedly influence the incidence of the disease. Conversely, it seems probable that chronic disease of the appendix is a factor in the production of various intestinal disorders, so that the diseased appendix becomes a link in a vicious circle. Injtm/ has been credited with being a factor in the causation of appendicitis, since a certain number of patients give a history either of some abrupt and unaccustomed strain or of a direct abdominal injury (()"G per cent., von Neumann). Byrom Eobinson has suggested that the injury caused by the constant action of the underlying psoas muscle may be responsible for some cases. Foreign bodies and concretions.—Pins, bristles, hairs, grains of corn, fruit-seeds, and other foreign bodies have been found in inflamed aj^pendices, but their occurrence is so uncommon as to constitute a curiosity. Faecal concretions, on the other hand, are found in about 25 per cent, of cases. Parasites.—Threadworms are not infrequently found in appendices removed at operation. In 200 post-mortem examinations of children, G. F. Still found the oxyuris in the appendix 25 times. Inflammation of adjacent structures, such as an ovarian cyst, may involve the appendix secondarily; on the other hand, these structures may be secondarily infected from a diseased appendix. The coexist- ence of pelvic disease with appendicitis is well known. Many other factors have, on slender grounds for the most part, been cited as causes of appendicitis, such as exposure to cold, rheumatism, and influenza. These need but passing notice. Appendices in abnormal situations are very prone to become the seat of disease, as for example in hernias. In a similar manner the appendix utilized in the operation of appendicostomy is very liable to become inflamed and gangrenous. When this hapjaens it is possible to watch the course of a case of apjjendicitis in the abdominal wall, and uncompHcated by peritoneal involvement. Morbid anatomy (Plate 97).—Inflammatory changes in the appendix may be of any degree, from those of a superficial catarrh up to total gangrene. In the mildest cases the mucous membrane is swollen and reddened, with but slight infiltration of the more ex- ternal layers, and with little or no periappendicular effusion. An increase of secretion occurs which, if the appendix be patent, escapes into the caecum, and the inflammation subsides, leaving httle trace behind. Repeated attacks of such a catarrhal inflammation leave the appendix thickened, firm to the touch, and often adherent to sur- rounding structures ; its lumen is narrowed, and the lining membrane