184 THE TONGUE and united the edges with sutures. In any case a very careful watch should be kept, and, if there is the slightest suspicion that cancer has supervened, half or the whole of the organ should be excised. Radium is not beneficial, as a rule, in cases of leucoplalda. There may be a temporary improvement, but the disease returns worse than before. 7. BLACK OR HAIRY TONGUE (NIGRITIES) Is a rare condition due to the overgrowth of the filiform papillse. The affected area is usually found on the dorsum just in front of the cir- cumvallate papillae. No hairs are present, but the long hypertrophied papilliB give the appearance of wet hair. The colour is apparently due to bacterial action, or to stains from smoke or particles of food. The disease causes no symptoms and is frequently discovered acci- dentally. A mouth-wash and a salicylic paint should be ordered. Mechanical cleansing by gentle scraping with a curved piece of whale- bone or similar instrument is often useful. ULCERS Under this heading we consider the various morbid conditions which lead to ulceration of the tongue, and some of the distinguisliing features which characterize the individual type. Butlin's valuable classification of the different varieties has been followed, but it would be well to make clear at the outset that a state of ulceration is merely a further stage of the changes considered in the preceding section. SIMPLE ULCERS Ulcers of this type usually result from long-standing, neglected chronic superficial glossitis. As has been pointed out previously, there is a gradual transformation of the vascular submucosa into scar tissue, with the inevitable result that the vitahty of the part is impaired owing to its imperfect nutrition. The relative avascularity of the fibrosed tissue interferes with the integrity of the surface epithelium, and further has an injurious effect upon the healing of any area that has been damaged ; and, as might be expected, although in many cases a certain amount of improvement may be encouraged by appropriate treatment, there is always an unfortunate tendency for the recently healed ulcer to break down again and again. Such ulcers are generally situated in the centre of the tongue and are fissured or stellate in shape, with callous edges. Sometimes by a process of actual sloughing they extend laterally and deepen. The amount of pain they produce varies greatly, and, no doubt, depends