26o THE OESOPHAGUS pharynx and upper end of the oesophagus terminate blindly just above this region, while the oesophagus ends above by opening into either the trachea or one of the bronchi. Keith and Spicer show that the trachea and bronchi are de- rived directly from the foregut through subdivision of the channel by the tracheo-cesophageal septum. The fistula formed between the oesophagus and trachea in the above-mentioned deformity is the result of failure in union of the lateral ridges which unite to form this septum. Shattock points out that this does not depend on a failure of com- munication between the stomodseum and the anterior blind end of the mesenteron, as the pharynx is itself developed from the mesenteron. He suggests that the atresia is a secondary process due to kinking of the wall of the mesenteron during the development of the lower part of the trachea and lungs. In rare cases the upper part of the canal communicates with the trachea. The lower portion may end blindly above without com- munication with the air-passages, or it may be simply represented by a fibrous cord. The two portions may be connected by a narrow fibrous cord (Lotheissen). The symptoms produced by this deformity are those of complete oesophageal obstruction ; all food taken is immediately vomited, and the infant rapidly dies of inanition. The condition can be diagnosed by the passage of a bougie. The only possible treatment is gastrostomy, with a view to dealing with the obstruction later. The prognosis, however, is generally quite hopeless (Keith and Spicer). Strictures due to a valve-like folding of the mucous membrane occur either just below the pharynx or near the lower end of the oesophagus. Stenosis op the Lower End of the (Esophagus Whipham and Fagge record a case of tubular fibrous stricture of the lower end of the oesophagus in a girl of 4J years. They could only find records of six similar cases. DIVERTICULA ^ Diverticula of the oesophagus occur : (1) At or about the junction of the pharynx with the oesophagus ; (2) in the middle third of the oesophagus in close relation with the bifurcation of the trachea and left bronchus ; (3) in the lower part of the oesophagus above the diaphragm. 1 This account of the condition is largely based on an excellent paper by Halsted.