(ESOPHAGEAL CARCINOMA: TREATMENT 291 Meyer says that the stomach can only be pulled up for 3-4 in. into the thorax. For tumours situated in tlie middle and upper portions, Meyer recommends excision of the growth, when possible, with closure by inversion of the divided ends and gastrostomy. The upper end may be sutured to the skin, and an attempt made later to unite it by various means with the gastric opening. This has been done by the use of an instrument or the employment of a portion of the small intestine (Roux, Kocher, Tuffier, Kiimmell). Sauerbruch considers that growths at the lower end of the oesophagus are most favourable for removal. They form late metas- tases, and do not spread locally with rapidity. He recommends that, if the tumours be small, the end of the oesophagus should be invaginated into the stomach and resected later. He prefers the use of the Murphy buttons to sutures. Janeway and Green advocate removal of the major portion of the stomach in cases of growth involving both the lower portion of the oesophagus and the cardiac end of the stomach. Through an abdo- minal incision the stomach is loosened from its mesenteric attach- ments. The thorax is opened, and the stomach brought up through an opening in the diaphragm. The pylorus is then divided. The oesophagus is cut across above the growth, and the ends of the oesophagus and pylorus are united by suture. The pylorus is then secured to the opening in the diaphragm. This operation has been carried out with success in dogs. Palliative measures.—Short of removal of the growth, the indications are to prevent starvation of the patient (which will inevitably ensue) and to add to his comfort. The increasing dysphagia may be relieved by— 1. The passage of sounds or bougies from time to time. 2. The introduction of feeding-tubes. 3. Application of radium. 4. Cervical oesophagostomy. 5. Gastrostomy. 1. The periodical passage of sounds in order to dilate a malignant stricture has some value, but it is not advisable as a routine practice. The passage of the sound may cause bleeding, and no doubt in some cases hastens the spread of an ulcerating growth. The relief obtained is at best only temporary, and swelling of the mucous membrane, induced by the sounding, may increase the dysphagia. 2. Permanent intubation of the oesophagus bv means of Symonds's funnel-shaped feeding-tubes passed through the stricture has been widely employed. The tubes are introduced by means of