926 THE TESTIS made by finding the scrotum empty, and, imless the gland is actually intra-abdominal, by feeling the organ in its abnormal position. Obvious as such a condition would appear to be, mistakes are made in the case of young children with very mobile testes. In these children the slightest stimulus, such as slight coldness due to removal of the clothing, will cause the testis to be retracted into the inguinal canal, and casual examination will lead to error. In imperfect descent the organ cannot be made by manipulation to reach the bottom of the scrotum, but the merely extremely mobile testis can readily be pressed down into its proper place. Treatment.—In considering treatment, the value of the organ and the dangers of the condition must be taken into consideration. It has already been pointed out that the imperfectly descended testis is an ill-developed gland usually incapable of spermatogenesis, but this does not necessarily mean that it has no fimction. As is well Imown, removal of both testes in a young subject prevents the develop- ment of the secondary male characteristics, probably owing to lack of the internal secretion of the testes ; but development of these char- acteristics does occur in cryptorchids, showing that the internal secre- tion is normal. At the same time, it is also well known that one testis is sufficient for the purposes of development, and therefore the loss of the internal secretion of one imperfectly descended testis may be ignored. From the physiological point of view, consequently, there is no benefit to be gained from saving one imperfectly descended testis, nor will the placing of such a testis in the scrotum lead to its develop- ing active spermatogenesis. Further, the imperfectly placed organ is specially liable to certain accidents and diseases. In the perineum, in the inguinal canal, in front of the pubis, or in Scarpa's triangle, it is particiJarly liable to injury from blows and subsequent inflamma- tion and atrophy. The abnormal attachments of the epididymis and its mesentery may lead to torsion, whilst malignant disease is relatively more common in the imperfectly descended than in the normally placed testis. The fact that imperfect descent is complicated by a patent pro- cessus vaginalis, and that radical cure of hernia is easier and more certain after removal of the testis, must also be taken into account. At the same time it must be remembered that at puberty a testis that has remained in the inguinal canal wiU sometimes descend into its normal situation in the scrotum. In all cases except those in which the organ is in the abdomen, operation is indicated, and the organ can either be (a) fixed into the scrotum, (b) removed, or (c) returned to the abdomen. (a) Orchidopexy is only possible in the exceptional cases in which the spermatic vessels are long enough to reach the bottom of