DIAPHRAGMATIC HERNIA 477 is no peritoneal sac, and tlie condition is rather one of prolapse than of true hernia. Morbid anatomy.—The protrusion may take place (1) through one or other of the natural openings in the diaphragm, particularly that for the oesophagus ; (2) through a congenital deficiency in the muscle; (3) through a tear produced by indirect violence or muscular effort ; or (4) through a direct wound of the muscle. The condition is usually met with on the left side, where the diaphragm lacks the support of the liver. The size of the opening varies from a mere slit in the tendinous portion of the diaphragm to a complete absence of one half of the muscle. As a rule the viscera are prolapsed into the left pleural cavity, and the organs most frequently implicated are the stomach, the colon, and the small intestine. The liver, pancreas, spleen, and left kidney have also been found in such hernias. The majority of cases of congenital diaphragmatic hernia have been met with on post-mortem examination of still-born children, or of infants who have only survived a few days. Others have been found at the autopsy of adults who have never manifested any clinical signs of such a condition. In cases of traumatic origin, signs may develop soon after the injury, or not till long after. Clinical features.—The condition has very seldom been accurately diagnosed during life. As the stomach is almost always present in the hernia, gastric discomfort constitutes the chief com- plaint, and the patient may be conscious that the food lodges in the region of the chest, where it produces a fixed pain. On examination, an unnatural depression in the epigastric and left hypochondriac regions may be noted, with a corresponding fullness in the lower thoracic region. The thoracic signs are similar to those of pneumothorax, but are detectable chiefly in the lower part of the chest, and distinct intestinal gurgling may sometimes be heard on auscultation. The heart may be displaced and its action interfered with, causing palpitation, attacks of dyspnoea and oppression in the chest, with inability to lie on the left side. These symptoms are influenced by the taking of food or fluid and sometimes by exertion, and the rapid variations in the physical signs help to differentiate this condition from pneumothorax. Information may be obtained by taking an X-ray photograph after administering a bismuth meal, or following an injection of bismuth emulsion into the colon. When the hernia is suddenly produced, there is intense dyspnoea and cyanosis, with severe precordial pain and oppression, and the condition may rapidly prove fatal from shock or from compression of the lung.