THE CESOPHAGUS 256 of the wall may reveal a swelling to the left side of the trachea. A pouch may form an easily recognizable tumour. Enlarged glands secondary to oesophageal disease may be present. 2. Percussion.—This method is seldom of assistance. A large pouch in the neck may give rise to a tympanitic note, or a greatly dilated oesophagus may possibly occasion altered resonance over the posterior thoracic wall. 3. Auscultation. — By the em- ployment of the stethoscope, certain sounds may be heard over the oesophagus during and after the act of swallowing. These sounds are due (1) to deglutition, (2) to food entering the stomach. In disease of the wall, especially when a stricture has occurred, the interval be- tween the two sounds is increased after swallowing fluids. An obstruction to the passage of food can thus be inferred from auscultation, but this method of examina- tion is uncertain and of little practical value. 4. Examination by bougies.— By this method any obstruction can be located, and its extent and permeability determined. As a preliminary the presence of aneurysm must be carefully excluded, for the sac of an aneurysm pressing on the oesophageal wall might be penetrated by the injudicious use of a bougie. Again, in advanced carcinoma of the oesophagus the instrument must be care- fully passed ; otherwise the ulcerated wall may be perforated or violent haemorrhage excited by the point of the bougie. With these exceptions, bougie exam- ination becomes a matter of routine in cases of dysphagia. The instruments used are generally solid flexible cylindrical or oval bougies, which are either conical in shape or have a bulbous end. They are composed of silk web or elastic gum, and are easily malleable when warmed. They are usually 22 in. in length, and vary in size from No. 7 to No. 24, English catheter gauge. {See Fig. 346.) The introduction of an oesophageal bougie is a simple procedure, Fig. 346.—Bougies for ex- amination of oesophagus. A, Bougie with metal acorn tip; r;, graduated conical bougie ; c, u, cylin- drical bougies; e, conical bougie; f, bulbous-ended bougie.