39 HARD FIBRO ADENOMA breast, but without bulging of fibrous prominences into the interior of the affected epithelial channels. The ducts and acini remain un- distorted, while the fibrous layer surrounding them undergoes a concentric hypertrophy. Instead of irregular, flattened, chink-like spaces lined by epithelium, this variety presents practically normal epithelial tubes surrounded by masses of fibrous tissue arranged con- centrically to the epithelial tubes. There is, however, no essential difference between the two forms of fibro-adenoma just described, for the same tumour may at different points present the characters of both. Symptoms and signs.—A fibro-adenoma of the ordinary or hard variety presents itself as a firm, elastic, rounded lump, not usually larger than an egg, paljiable with the flat hand, and freely movable in the breast tissues. There is no adhesion to sldn or fascia, nor enlargement of the axillary glands. Retraction of the nipple never occurs. The smaller examples are more or less spherical in shape ; in the larger ones lobulation becomes evident. As a fibro-adenoma enlarges, the subcutaneous tissues over it seem to undergo atrophy from stretching, and the tumour becomes superficial, lying close beneath the skin, across which enlarged veins may often be seen coursing. The skin glides freely over the tumour ; on stretching it the lobulation of the tumour may become visually obvious. As a rule, fibro-adenomas do not cause pain, except in neurotic persons, or in those who are obsessed by the fear of cancer. Not infrequently, however, they become tender during menstruation. In exceptional cases, severe neuralgic pain in the breast may depend upon the presence of a small fibro-adenoma. Differential diagnosis.—A tense cyst in wliich fluctua- tion cannot be obtained closely simulates a fibro-adenoma. The diagnosis is especially difficult if the swelling is deep in the breast. Though exploratory puncture will often settle the diagnosis, it is not imperative, since in either case an operation is usually necessary. Considerable difficulty may arise when the fibro-adenoma is em- bedded in an area of indurated chronic mastitis. The rounded con- tours of the tumour are obscured, and its mobility sometimes seems to be impaired. In such circumstances it may closely simulate a carcinoma, and an exploratory incision may be tlie only means of settling the diagnosis. The simulation of fibro-adenoma by certain forms of carcinoma is dealt with at p. 82. Here it need only be said that a tumour of the breast, presenting the characters of a fibro-adenoma, should be regarded with grave suspicion if it first appears after the age of 40. Treatment.—Fibro-adenomas in young women under 30, if small and not increasing, may be let alone if the patient can