13 CHANCRE OF THE NIPPLE lation of the deeper layers of the epidermis of the areola and the round-celled infiltration of the derma are to be explained as the results of lymphatic obstruction. Diagnosis.—If a lump presenting the characters of a carcinoma is already present in the breast, if the axillary glands are hard and enlarged, or if the nipple shows retraction or partial destruction, Paget's disease cannot be mistaken for simple eczema of the nipple. In cases where such signs are wanting, the failure of the usual appli- cations for eczema is the foundation upon which a diagnosis of Paget's disease must rest. While simple eczema of the nipple may be bilateral, Paget's disease is a iinilateral affection. Prognosis.—True Paget's disease is invariably associated with carcinoma, which usually manifests itself clinically within two years of the onset of the eczema. The prognosis is that of cancer of the breast in general, and is favourable only when early and complete operation is performed. Nevertheless, the form of cancer associated with Paget's disease often runs a prolonged course. Treatment.—If dermatological treatment fails to cure the eczema, the case should be treated as one of cancer of the breast, even if no lump can be felt {see p. 82). In early cases it may not be thought necessary to ablate the pectoral muscles, but if this is not done it is extremely difficult to extirpate the highest axillary glands (subclavian glands). If the history of eczema is a long one it is safer to perform the complete operation for carcinoma (p. 89). CHANCRE OF THE NIPPLE Primary chancre of the nipple is rarely seen in the mother of a syphilitic infant, for either she is immunized by a previous attack of the disease, or, in accordance with CoUes's law, the syphilitic foetus has protected its mother without infecting her. On the other hand, a wet-nurse, or any woman, married or unmarried, who may casually hold the child to her breast, or who in any other way comes in contact with mucous tubercles of the lips, is liable to contract the disease. A breast chancre is usually found on the areola at the base of the nipple, but may be situated on the skin of the breast. Though generally single, it may be multiple, and both breasts may be affected. It often fails to conform to the type of the characteristic Hunterian chancre. It may present itself as a non-indurated and apparently trivial fissure or excoriation, or as a minute, rounded and slightly elevated induration covered by reddened sldn, which subsequently ulcerates at its centre. The ulcer gives rise to little discharge, and may be covered by a scab. In other cases the base becomes sloughy, and phagedsena may supervene. Sometimes the adjoining nipple becomes swollen and painful. Soon the axillary glands become