PROLAPSE OF THE SPLEEN explained, in some cases at any rate, by associated injuries to the lung and thoracic wall. In other cases, subphrenic abscess, faecal fistula, and secondary lisemorrhage have occurred. All these com- plications may follow injury to the spleen without operation. Other possible complications which require brief mention are— (1) recurrent hsemorrhage, which may either result from the slipping of a ligature or arise from points of adhesion as the blood-pressure increases after recovery from collapse; (2) secondary hajmorrhage from sepsis ; (3) the obscure train of symptoms already mentioned (p. 103) ; (4) thrombosis of the splenic vein, which may extend to the mesenteric veins and so give rise to grave abdominal symptoms. PROLAPSE OF THE SPLEEN (Movable, Wandering, Ectopic Spleen) This condition is rare in men, and more fi-equent in women who have borne children. Although abnormal mobility of an otherwise natural spleen may occur, particularly in cases of general enteroptosis, prolapse is usually associated with hypertrophy. When the phrenico- colic ligament, which normally suspends the spleen beneath the diaphragm, is stretched or torn the spleen readily prolapses, and is then very imperfectly supported by the splenic vessels, the gastro- splenic omentum, and the lieno-renal ligament. A movable spleen, if not greatly enlarged, may give rise to no symptoms at all. Great mobility, especially if combined with con- siderable hypertrophy, induces severe spasms of pain closely simulating those of movable kidney.^ Owing to the close connexion between the spleen and the stomach through the gastro-splenic omentum, gastric disturbances are not uncommon. In extreme cases the spleen may be found to occupy the left iliac fossa, or to have crossed to the right of the middle line, and it has been found impacted in the pelvis. The loss of the normal splenic dullness, the absence of colon resonance in front of the wandering viscus, its superficial position, and its notched border should serve in most cases to distinguish it from a movable kidney. Treatment.—A well-fitting abdominal belt may in some instances prevent the pain and discomfort which sometimes result from a prolapsed spleen. In severe cases, especially in idiopathic or malarial hypertrophy, excision (p. 103) may be justifiable if the patient is so inconvenienced as to be unable to follow his employment or to enjoy active exercise. In a few cases the operation of splenopexy 1 I. Macdonald and W. A. Mackay record an operation in a case of movable and twisted spleen which was mistaken for movable kidney.