RETENTION OF URINE Catlielin lias suggested the injection of fluid into the sacral canal with the object of causing pressure on the sacral nerves. He claims 80 per cent, of cures, but the treatment has not been so successful in other hands. RETENTION OF URINE Etiology.—Tlie causes of retention of urine may be classified as follows :— 1. Retention with obstruction, (a) Prostate.—(1) Simple en- largement, (2) malignant disease, (3) stone, (4) acute prostatitis and prostatic abscess, {b) Urethra.—(1) Rupture of urethra, (2) acute iirethritis, (3) stricture, (4) stone and foreign bodies, (.5) pressure from witliout, pelvic tumours, etc. 2. Retention due to atony.—(a) With symptoms of nervous disease ; tabes and other spinal lesions, (b) Without symptoms of nervous disease ; idiopathic atony. 3. Retention in acute and chronic intoxications.—Typhoid, appendicitis, salpingitis, arsenical, mercurial, belladonna, or lead poisoning, and syphilis. 4. Retention from inhibition or spasm.—Hysterical reten- tion : retention after anal and rectal operations. Diagnosis.—It is necessary to distinguish between anuria and retention and between atonic and obstructive retention. In obstructive retention the form of obstruction must be ascertained. In anuria there have been previous signs of renal disease, but no symptoms of disease of the bladder or urethra. There is no pain, no distension of the bladder, and an instrument passes easily into the bladder but draws no urine. In retention of urine there is usually a history of increasing difficulty of micturition and other signs of obstruction. Symptoms of renal disease are a'bsent or insignificant. The bladder is distended. Ill retention due to atony there is no pain and no desire to mictu- rate. In obstructive retention there are recurrent spasmodic attempts to empty the bladder ; these are sometimes absent in old men. A large-sized instrument enters the bladder easily if retention is due to atony, but is arrested if retention is due to obstruction ; the 23resence of signs of spinal disease clinches the diagnosis. In young men the most frequent cause of acute retention is gonor- rhoea, and there is a history of an acute discharge. In adult life reten- tion is usually due to stricture, and there is a history of gradually increasing difficulty of micturition, culminating in complete retention after alcoliolic excess or exposure to cold. The passage of an instru- ment confirms the diagnosis. In old men enlargement of the prostate is the most frequent cause of retention. There is a history of nocturnal frequency and increas-