849 INCONTINENCE develops in adult life without other symptoms should lead to a careful examination of the central nervous system. In multiple sclerosis a different type of incontinence is met with, the bladder being contracted and urine spasmodically ejected without control. Treatment.—The over - distended bladder should be slowly emptied by the catheter at regular intervals under the strictest aseptic precautions. If there is complete retention this should be done three times in twenty-four hours. The bladder should be washed with silver-nitrate solution (1 in 10,000) if any sign of infection is observed. Urinary antiseptics (urotropine, etc.) are combined with strychnine and ergot, and the bowels carefully regulated. For continual incon- tinence a urinal must be worn. Incontinence due to Bladder Spasm In multiple sclerosis, incontinence is due to spasm. In acute in- flammation of the bladder and prostatic urethra, uncontrollable spasm may cause active incontinence. This is usually nocturnal. Tuber- culosis of the bladder is a frequent cause. Treatment.—In acute cases hot fomentations should be applied suprapubically and on the perineum, morphia and belladonna sup- positories used, and a liot-water enema, to which 30 gr. of antipyrin have been added, given. Contrexeville or Vittel water and sandalwood oil may be adminis- tered, and hot sitz-baths are useful. In chronic cases diuretics and sandalwood, belladonna and hyoscyamus, and small doses of opium should be given, and the cystitis simultaneously treated. In tuber- culous cystitis the bladder should not be washed. Incontinence of Childhood—Nocturnal Enuresis—Essential Enuresis Up to the end of the first year the bladder acts automatically. About that time mental control by inhibition of the act of micturi- tion begins, and by the end of eighteen months, or at most two years, it is fairly established, although there may still be occasional lapses up to the age of 3 years. After that age constant or frequent bed- wetting must be regarded as abnormal. The onset of enuresis is usually observed between the ages of 5 and 8, but the nocturnal control may never have been established. Enuresis is usually noc- turnal, sometimes it is also diurnal, rarely it is diurnal only. Boys and girls are equally affected. Etiology.—In certain cases some source of irritation is present, such as thread-worms, anal fissure, vulvitis, phimosis, and balanitis, and the incontinence is looked upon as reflex. Enlarged tonsils and 3t-