THE SPLEEN compensate for the loss of the spleen. In other cases an element of sepsis may afford a reasonable explanation of the symptoms. The con- dition described is certainly not a common sequela of the operation. Splenectomy should not be lightly undertaken. The mortality is high. The chief dangers are shock and hsemorrhage. The size of the spleen and the presence of adhesions may present serious difficulties. Gr. B. Johnston has collected 708 cases of splenectomy, showing a mortality of 27-4 per cent. If the cases of removal for injuries are excluded (150 with 51 deaths), the mortality is 13-2 per cent. Although the spleen has been removed for a great variety of con- ditions, the cases in wliich splenectomy is either desirable or suitable are in the main limited to (1) injuries or ruptures which endanger life from haemorrhage ; (2) strangulation of a normal or diseased spleen, due to torsion of the pedicle ; (3) hypertrophy combined with excessive mobility, when causing troublesome symptoms ; (4) primary malignant disease, if recognized early; (5) malarial hypertrophy, when the size of the spleen is a menace to the patient's life ; and (6) some cases of splenic ansemia. The operation.—The most convenient incision is a vertical one along the outer border of the left rectus. When the diagnosis is uncertain a median incision is usually employed, and if necessary the left rectus is subsequently divided transversely. In the case of very large tumours, and especially in women, in whom the subcostal arch is less divergent than in the male, the median incision is probably the most suitable, as it allows of a longer incision than can be secured in the linea semilunaris. Some surgeons adopt an oblique incision parallel to the costal arch. If adhesions exist, they must be dealt with before any attempt is made to ligature the pedicle. If adhesions are extensive between the spleen and neighbouring viscera, it will often be advisable to abandon the operation. Adhesions between the spleen and the parietal peritoneum are best dealt with by gentle pressure with swabs on holders. Omental adhesions must be carefully transfixed and ligatured. Before the pedicle is ligatured the spleen should, if possible, be delivered outside the abdomen. The pedicle is most easily approached when the spleen is rotated so that the posterior surface looks forward. The vessels should be separately ligatured with stout silk, and divided at some distance from the ligatures. The greatest care must be taken to avoid undue tension or torsion on the large splenic veins. Some surgeons have by design included the tail of the pancreas in the ligatures, to lend support and security to the vascular stump. It must be remembered that the splenic artery breaks up into from five to seven branches when it reaches the spleen, and that the