MALIGNANT DISEASE OF THE TESTIS 943 ened by the increase in the size of the vessels necessary to supply the vascular tumour and by the hypertrophy of the cremaster muscle that follows the increase in weight. The cord may, however, be infil- trated by the new growth and become nodular (Plate 106), the nodules varying in size from that of a pea to a growth as large as the normal testis. The vas deferens remains unaffected. The skin of the scrotum is at first normal, but later large dilated veins can be seen in it. With advance of the disease the skin ceases to move freely over the testis, and finally becomes firmly adherent at one part; through this the tumour, if not removed, will eventually fungate. The glands affected first are the lumbar glands, situated on the front of the lumbar vertebrae and surrounding the aorta and the vena cava just below the level of the renal arteries and veins. A large deep-seated mass is felt on one side of the spinal column near the umbilicus. This mass is fixed and nodular, and does not move on respiration. Pressure on the vena cava may lead to dilatation of the superficial veins of the abdomen, and later to ascites and to oedema of the lower extremities. Occasionally the inguinal and external iliac glands are affected. Metastasis may occur to any part of the body, but is most common in the lungs. Diagnosis has to be made from ha^matocele, hydrocele, chronic orcliitis, and tuberculous disease. From hfematocele the diagnosis is often extremely difficult, especially if there is no history of accident; in such cases exploratory incision is advisable before orchidectomy is performed. Prognosis.—The prognosis is extremely grave, largely owing to the late stage of the disease at wliich the patient usually comes under observation. Early removal sometimes results in complete freedom from recurrence. Treatment.—The treatment is removal of the organ as soon as the diagnosis is made. This should be done even if there is evidence of secondary enlargement of the lumbar glands, as the patient wiU certainly be rid of a source of inconvenience and . the danger of the growth fungating will be avoided. Local recurrence is not usual. Operation is contra-indicated in cases of advanced disease with a large lumbar sweUing and with infiltration of the cord, as the growth will fungate through the wound and there may be serious difficulty in stop23ing haemorrhage at the operation. The question of the removal of the lumbar glands at the time of removal of the primary growth is an important one, as the modern operative treatment of malignant growth demands the removal of the nearest set of lymphatic glands as well as of the growth itself. Attempts, more or less successful, have been made to remove the lumbar glands, and there can be no doubt that this is the correct line