THE URETHRA 882 micturition, delay, feeble and intermittent stream. Chronic distension of the bladder with voluntary micturition may be present, or residual urine amounting to 4 to 10 oz. There is loss of sensibility of the bladder in some cases and increased sensibility in others. Well-marked trabeculation (atrophy) of the bladder is present in all. Urethral obstruction and spinal disease are eliminated. The disease was present in cases for eight to eighteen years without the development of nervous lesions. The lesion is probably localized in the hypogastric and liEemorrhoidal plexuses of the sympathetic. Injury to the nervous system.—Corner gives the following table of the state of the bladder in various injuries:— Concussion of the brain. 1. Reflex or unconscious micturition. 2. Active retention: (a) active overflow; (6) passive overflow; (c) absolute retention. Compression. 1. Passive retention. 2. Active paralytic overflow. 3. Passive paralytic overflow. Spinal injuries. 1. Supralumbar lesions : (a) active retention; (6) reflex micturition ; (c) exaggerated reflex micturition. 2. Lumbar lesions : [a) passive retention; {b) active paralytic over- flow ; (c) passive overflow. Treatment. 1. Relief of retention and removal of re- sidual urine.—Rigid asepsis must be observed. For complete retention the catheter must be passed thrice in twenty-four hours. The tone of the bladder frequently improves with regular catheterization, and the frequency of catheterization may be reduced. When the residual urine does not exceed 6 or 10 oz., the catheter should be passed once a day, and if less than that, once a week. If urethral obstruction is present it must be removed. 2. Prevention and treatment of cystitis.—Urinary antiseptics should be given from the commencement of the bladder symptoms, and constipation prevented. If infection has occurred the bladder is washed out (see under Cystitis, p. 862). The bladder should be examined from time to time to ascertain if a phosphatic calculus has formed. 3. Treatment of atony.—The patient should be encouraged to try to expel all the urine, he should be regularly catheterized, and should be given ergot (liquid extract, 20-30 minims thrice daily) and strychnine (liquor, 5 minims). Mercury and iodides have no effect. The electrical cunent may be used with advantage, one terminal being placed over the suprapubic region or the sacrum and the other over the perineum, or an electrode may be introduced into the bladder or into the rectum. A weak interrupted current should be used, and at first the sittings are short. The galvanic current may also be employed. THE URETHRA Anatomy (Figs. 202, 203, Vol. I., pp. 806, 807).—The male urethra is divided anatomically into three parts—the prostatic (1| in.), the mem- branous (|- in.), and the spongy urethra (about 6 in.); a jjars intramurales is also described. Clinically, the canal is more conveniently divided by the compressor