553 CHRONIC APPENDICITIS Clironic appendicitis includes cases in which a pathological con- dition of the appendix gives rise to a variety of more or less vague abdominal symptoms. " Appendicular colic " may conveniently be included in this class. By it is meant an attack of abdominal pain, more or less severe, with or without vomiting, unaccompanied by fever, lasting but a few minutes or hours, and having a great tendency to recur at intervals. Such attacks are ascribed to temporary kink- ing and distension of the appendix, to obstruction of its lumen by stricture, or to attempts to extrude a concretion. Exactly how such attacks are caused, how far they are related to definite structural changes in the appendix, and what is their relation to appendicitis, are matters of speculation. Naturally, a diagnosis of appendicular colic would be made only with the greatest caution, and after the most careful exclusion of other causes of similar abdominal pain, such as renal colic. A large number of different symptoms are ascribed to chronic disease of the appendix. Among these may be mentioned— 1. More or less persistent abdominal discomfort, increased by exertion or constipation, and not necessarily referred to the right iliac region. 2. Attacks of " appendicular colic." 3. Chronic constipation and anaemia. 4. Chronic diarrhoea and some forms of colitis. 5. Chronic " dyspepsia," and even liaDmatemesis, melaena, and " hunger pain." The diagnosis of chronic apj^endicitis ought never to be made hastily and without due consideration of the many other conditions which may give rise to similar symptoms. Affections of the ovary and Fallopian tube must be eliminated by careful bimanual pelvic examination; renal and ureteral calculus by the X-rays and the examination of the urine, but remembering that concretions in the appendix have sometimes been demonstrated by the X-rays. Nephrop- tosis often causes considerable difiiculty, and the coexistence of a movable kidney and a diseased appendix may necessitate diagnosis by exploratory laparotomy, followed by both appendicectomy and nephropexy. Chronic disease of the appendix may give rise to many of the symptoms of gall-stones, cholecystitis, and duodenal ulcer, so that in difficult cases the diagnosis has to be made by exploratory operation. When a palpable tumour is present in the region of the appendix, and more or less vague abdominal symptoms are complained of, the probability of the case being one of chronic appendicitis is great, yet several other conditions can give rise to identical symptoms and signs. Amongst these the chief are tuberculosis, actinomycosis, and carcinoma