522 THE INTESTINES discharge, wliicli escapes witli some fluid faecal matter, giving rise to what is often misleadingly described by the patient as diarrhoea. Absorption of toxins takes place from the eroded surfaces, causing a variable degree of auto-intoxication. The ulcerative process may spread to the muscular and serous coats, and give rise to pericoUtis and localized abscess, or perforation may occur and set up peritonitis. STRICTURE OR STENOSIS Narrowing of the lumen of the bowel is an incidental accompani- ment of nearly all morbid conditions affecting the intestine, and on this factor many of the most troublesome symptoms and some of the most serious risks ultimately depend. In such diseases as carcinoma, the hypertrophic form of tuberculosis, actinomycosis, and fibromatosis of the colon, progressive organic stenosis is an almost constant result, but as this does not constitute the essential feature of these affections, it seems unnecessary and undesirable to differentiate and describe as separate conditions malignant, tuberculous, and other forms of stricture. The symptoms referable to the stenosis are more properly included with the other clinical features of each disease. Stenosis resulting from the contraction of cicatricial tissue in or around the wall of the gut, however, requires special mention. Cicatricial Stricture or Stenosis The formation of cicatricial tissue in the wall of the bowel during the repair of destructive lesions is attended with a variable amount of narrowing of the lumen, but the stenosis rarely proceeds to such an extent as to cause complete obstruction. The interference with the passage of the intestinal contents, however, is liable to be aggravated from time to time as a result of temporary congestion of the mucous membrane, or spasm of the circular muscular fibres. If to this is added a kinking or torsion of the affected loop, the lumen may be entirely occluded and acute symptoms suddenly supervene. The most common cause of cicatricial stenosis is the healing of a tuberculous ulcer (p. 511). Syphilitic, typhoid, or dysenteric ulceration rarely gives rise to a sufficient degree of cicatricial contraction to cause symptoms of stenosis, and narrowing of the bowel seldom follows the reduction of an intussusception. The two forms that call for special mention here are those that result from direct injury of the bowel, and from the effects of a tem- porary strangulation, as in hernia. Traumatic stricture.—It occasionally happens that the process of repair in a portion of bowel wliich has been contused or ruptured by external violence, such as a kick or a blow, subsequently results in