URETHRAL RUPTURE 887 bullets, etc. The penile urethra is most frequently affected. Ha3mor- rhage is usually severe. When free exit for the urine is afforded no extravasation takes place, but when the urethral wound docs not correspond to the skin wound, or when the wound is in the perineum, widespread extravasation is likely to occur. Immediate exploration and suture of the urethra should be carried out, and a catheter tied in the urethra for four days. When suppuration and extravasation have already taken place, a catheter should be tied in and the wound thoroughly cleansed. Rupture There may be bruising of the mucous membrane (interstitial rup- ture), rupture of the fibrous sheath (partial external rupture), of the mucous membrane (partial internal rupture), or of the mucous mem- brane, corpus spongiosum, and fibrous sheath (total rupture). A part of the circumference of the urethra (partial rupture) or the whole circumference (complete rupture) may be affected. In complete rup- ture the severed ends retract and may be widely separated. Rupture of the fenile urethra is rare, and results from injuries during erection. The seat of election is the peno-scrotal junction. Rupture of the bulbous urethra is more frequent, and results fi-om a kick, or blow, or fall on the perineum. The rupture is usually com plete and total, and the severed ends retract some distance. The position of the rupture depends upon the attitude of the body at the time of the injury. A force strildng the perineum from before back- wards injures the bulbous urethra, but one striking the perineum from behind forwards damages the membranous urethra. The urethra is crushed between the injuring body and the pubic arch and triangular ligament. Rupture of the membranous urethra occurs in severe injuries with fracture of the pelvis or dislocation of the pubic bones. The prostatic urethra is rarely ruptured. Symptoms.—In fenile rupture there is ha3morrhage from the meatus for a few days, pain on micturition, but rarely retention of urine. Extravasation of urine does not occur, but stricture invari- ably follows. Rupture of the bulbous urethra is the most common form. After a blow on the perineum there is sharp pain, increasing in severity, and blood appears at the meatus. A tumour rapidly forms in the perineum, which becomes tense and tender. In slight cases where the fibrous sheath is not ruptured this swelling is absent. Retention of urine frequently follows the injury. Membranous or frostatic rupture is associated with fracture of the pelvis, and may escape observation at first. Hc'emorrhage is slight, and bruising appears in the perineum after some days. There is retention of urine. A tender swelling is felt on rectal examination, and the abdominal muscles are frequently rigid. The bladder is distended.