858 THE BLADDER Clinical features.—Shock is present and may be severCj but occasionally it is absent and symptoms are delayed. There are pain, urgent desire to micturate, and straining, but inability to pass water. The abdomen is rigid and tender, there is no dullness corresponding to a distended bladder, and the patient has not passed water for several hours. On passing a catheter a little blocdy urine is withdrawn. Rarely, the catheter passes through the rent, and a large quantity of urine is obtained. If a catheter is passed several times the quantity of urine is always the same ; and if the patient is set upright after withdrawal of the urine a large quantity can be obtained, although immediately before this the bladder had been emptied. When the rupture is extraferitoneal, dullness appears above the pubes, and there is tenderness and rigidity. Infiltration spreads in the pelvis, and escapes by the sciatic notch into the buttock, by the obturator foramen into the upper part of the thigh, or along the inguinal canal into the scrotum. Abscess formation and the development of fistuliE follow, and then throm- bosis and septicsemia. In intraperitoneal rupture peritonitis appears within the first twelve hours. Death, due to the toxic effect of the urine, may take place without peritonitis. Diagnosis.^—The diagnosis is made from the clinical features detailed above. In rupture of the urethra, blood appears at the meatus and the passage of a catheter is obstructed. In rupture of the kidney the blow is in the lumbar region, the loin is tender, and bladder irritation is absent. In fracture of tl>e pelvis, retention of urine may be present without rupture, the diagnosis being made by passing a catheter. The injection of fluids into the bladder in order to ascertain if a smaller quantity is returned, and the inflation of the bladder with air which will escape into the peritoneal cavity and obliterate the liver dullness, are to be deprecated as they disseminate infection. Except in the rare case of partial rupture, cystoscopy is not of diagnostic value since it is impossible to distend the bladder. Suprapubic exploration of the bladder is the most satisfactory diagnostic method. Treatment.—Operation should be performed immediately, unless the shock is too profound, when a few hours' delay is permissible. When the diagnosis of intraperitoneal rupture is established, laparotomy is performed, the urine and blocd are removed, the patient placed in the Trendelenburg position, and a search made for the rupture. If it is accessible it is closed by catgut sutures, a catheter tied in the urethra, and the peritoneum drained. If the wound is inaccessible it will only be possible to drain the peritoneum and tie a catheter in the urethra. When the rupture is extraperitoneal a suprapubic incision is made, the rent sutured, and the bladder drained.