THE INTESTINES 512 are liable to become adherent to one another or to the parietes, and this still further interferes with the passage of the intestinal con- tents. The peritoneal covering of the bowel is frequently scattered over with miliary tubercles, and the associated mesenteric glands are often enlarged and caseous. The usual symptoms associated with gradual stenosis of the bowel are present—recurrent attacks of abdominal pain, gradually increasing distension of the abdomen, with visible peristalsis and gurghng intestinal sounds. One or more tumour-like masses may be felt through the abdominal wall or per rectum. The nature of the lesion can usually be recognized from the other evidence of tuberculosis, by the von Pirquet test, or by discovering tubercle bacilU in the fseces ; but the diagnosis is sometimes only made after opening the abdomen. The treatment consists in resecting the affected segment of gut when this is practicable, or in short-circuiting the bowel. The other complications that may follow on tuberculous ulceration of the intestine are perforations (Pig. 423) with septic peritonitis (but this is rare owing to the thickening of the peritoneal coat and the formation of adhesions outside the affected segment of bowel); the development of a cold abscess, which, on bursting, may establish a fistula with an adjacent hollow viscus or with the surface; and general tuberculous peritonitis. In so far as these conditions are amenable to surgical treatment, they are dealt with on the same lines as when they arise from other causes. 2. Ileo-C^cal Tuberculosis The hyperplastic or hypertrophic form of intestinal tuberculosis is almost always confined to the csecum, although it may extend for some distance in the ascending colon, and frequently in the terminal part of the ileum. Occasionally the proximal part of the appendix is implicated. Morbid anatomy.—This affection differs from other mani- festations of tuberculosis in that the lesion is not a destructive one, but is attended with great increase in the bulk of the csecum. The disease begins in the submucous or subperitoneal layers, and spreads to other coats of the bowel, which become diffusely infiltrated with small round cells among which are clumps of giant cells and calcareous deposits, and the wall is increased in thickness and rendered rigid by a deposit of plastic fibrous tissue. The condition tends to spread by the formation of fresh zones of hyperplasia in the distended bowel above the level of the primary focus (F. M. Caird). The thickened csecum is usually included in a mass of fibro-adipose tissue of in- flammatory origin.