957 HYDROCELE OF THE CORD hydrocele which has a communication witli a cyst lying above Poupart's ligament. Treatment.—The hydrocele may be tapped, but it is better to remove it by dissection. The constriction between the two sacs usually occurs at the inguinal canal. 4. Diffuse Hydrocele of the Cord This is a very rare condition, the cause of which is imknown. It is a collection of fluid, resembling blood serum in composition, in the meshes of the connective tissue of the spermatic cord. Symptoms.—The patient exhibits a pyriform swelling, the base of which rests on the top of the testis, whilst the apex disappears into the external abdominal ring. The swelling is painless and dis- appears under slight continuous pressure, but reappears directly the pressure is removed. The condition is somewhat difficult to diagnose from an omental hernia. Treatment.—The hydrocele may be tapped and the fluid with- drawn, but it soon returns. Radical cure consists of incision and drainage. 5. Encijsted Hydrocele of the Cord (Fig. 570, 3) Although cysts may arise in the spermatic cord from several causes,, the above term is given to a cyst formed by fluid collecting in an unobliterated portion of the processus vaginalis which is closed above and below. These cysts are usually found in children, but may be discovered at any age. Symptoms.—The condition presents itself as a small, rounded, freely movable, translucent cystic swelling, situated in the cord between the testis and the external abdominal ring. The cyst moves with the testis and cannot be completely reduced into the abdomen. In some cases the cysts are multiple and may communicate with the peritoneal cavity. Hjemorrhage may occur into such an encysted hydrocele, converting it into an encysted luematocele of the cord. Treatment.—In young children the cyst may disappear spon- taneously or after tapping, but if a radical cure is considered advisable the cyst should be dissected out. 6. Congenital Hydrocele (Fig. .570, 4) A congenital hydrocele, whicli is not necessarily manifest at birth, is an effusion of fluid into an entirely unobliterated processus vaginalis. It may be present on one or both sides ; if bilateral, causes for increase of fluid in the peritoneal cavity, such as tuberculous peritonitis and cirrhosis of the liver, should be sought, the hydrocele merely represent- ing an overflow from this cavity. Physical signs.—There is a translucent pyriform swelling in the