HYPOSPADIAS—EPISPADIAS 967 ment ; but if the opening of the urethra is too small it should be enlarged. The condition is often compatible with full sexual vigour and efficiency. Hypospadias penis and hypospadias perinealis are unsatisfactory to treat, and in many cases it is probably best to leave the condition untreated. Many plastic operations have been devised, but the patient is rarely satisfied with the results of any of them. It is probably best to defer operation till puberty, or till the patient can take an intelligent interest in his cure and give all the help in his power to the after-treat- ment. Several operations are necessary in severe cases, and not too much should be at- tempted at one time. The penis should fii'st be freed from the two fibrous bands which cause its downward curve, and an attempt then made to form & urethra. EPISPADIAS Epispadias is a congenital abnormality of the urethra and penis in which the penis is cleft above and the urethra opens on the upper surface. Like hypospadias it may be divided into three degrees, according to the position of the opening—(1) The opening is just behind the glans ; (2) ^.^ .574.-Hypospadias perinealis (ex- tlie openmg is on the body ternal pseudo-hermaphrodism). of the penis; (3) the cleft extends the whole length of the penis, and is frequently complicated by ectopia vesicse. The third degree is by far the most common. In the first two degrees the corpora cavernosa are present, and the penis is short but large, with a tendency to turn upwards ; but in the third degree the penis is stunted and practically represented by the glans, while the corpora cavernosa are very defective. Cleft scrotum, imperfectly descended testis, congenital hernia, non- union of the symphysis pubis, and ectopia vesicse are frequently present in association with the third degree of epispadias. It is difficult to explain this deformity, but the explanation which appears to be most in accordance with facts is that the condition is really one of hypospadias in which torsion of the penis has