144 FACE, LIPS, AND PALATE parts are approximated, receives the angular projection a. When the suturing is completed as far as the vermilion border, the redundant portions of the flaps are removed, care being taken to leave a pro- jection long enough to compensate for cicatricial contraction. Summary of the choice of operation.—As no one- operation is applicable to every variety of hare-lip, and as every exponent of this particular branch of surgery is naturally biased in favour of the methods with which he himself has obtained the- best results, the following indications, made with due regard to these facts, are given as suggestions rather than as a series of rules :— L Unilateral hare-lif.—For partial clefts with equal sides, employ Rose's method; for partial clefts with unequal sides, Mirault's method; and for complete clefts, Edmund Owen's method. A B 3 3' Fig. 315.—Hagedorn's operation for bilateral hare-lip. The unshaded part of the margin of the cleft corresponds to the portion of the flap rerroved when suturing is nearly completed. 2. Notching of the lip following any of the above operations may be remedied by Nelaton's operation. 3. Bilateral hare-lip.—For narrow clefts, or clefts with a large premaxilla, employ Rose's method. For wide clefts, with unevea sides and a small premaxilla, employ Hagedorn's method. CLEFT PALATE Varieties.—Clinically, two varieties of cleft palate are recog- nized—partial, in which the cleft is limited to a portion or the whole of the soft palate, or to the soft palate and a portion of the hard palate ; and total, when the defect extends through the alveolus as well as through the hard and soft palates. The latter form is frequently complicated by unilateral or bilateral hare-lip. Anatomically, the different varieties are classified with greater accuracy a& follows :—- 1. Tripartite palate.—The three palatal elements are widely separated by an elongated Y-shaped fissure, the limbs of which meet at the posterior inferior angle of the nasal septum (Fig. 316). In this variety the central element is formed by the premaxilla and the