THE BREAST 56 nodules. The following table shows the experience of the Middlesex Hospital in this respect for a period of thirty years :— Table showing the Frequency of Cancerous Deposit or Spontaneous Fracture in 329 Oases of Mammary Cancer at the Middlesex Hospital, 1872-1901. Bone Bones lying wholly or partially within the area liable to sub- cutaneous nodules . Bones lying beyond I the area liable to i subcutaneous nod-1 ules. Sternum Ribs Clavicle . Spine Cranial bones Scapula . Femur . Os innominatum Humerus Radius Ulna Tibia Fibula Patella Bones of hand Bones of foot No. of cases Percentage of total 30 28 5 12 9 1 14 9-1 8-5 1- 5 3 6 2- 7 0-3 4-2 2-7 0-3 0-3 0-3 Owing to the impossibility of making a complete routine examina- tion of the skeleton, it is probable that this table is incomplete, that secondary deposits in the flat bones especially—bones which, owing, to their shape, are not liable to fracture as the result of secondary growth-—are more frequent than the table would indicate. But advanced cancerous deposit in the bones of the forearm and leg would certainly give rise frequently to spontaneous fracture, and would thus attract the attention of the pathologist. The immunity of the long bones of the forearm and leg must, therefore, be a real, not merely an imaginary one. The table includes two cases which form exceptions to the rule just stated. In the first case, owing to ankylosis of the knee-joint, cancer had extended to the tibia and patella by continuity from the femur. In the second case, certain of the metacarpal bones were fractured ; in this case, therefore, it appears probable that cancerous embolism along the blood-vessels was the cause of the spontaneous fracture. But it is a very striking fact, as indicating the inefficiency of blood embolism in the causation of bone metastasis, that only one case in thirty years showed bone deposit in the distal portions of the limbs. Judging by the frequency of non-cancerous embohsm of the extremities, it is in these that bone deposits, according to the