WHITEHEAD'S OPERATION 219 the muscles on the affected side; indeed, the septum appears to exercise a limiting influence. Recurrence on the opposite side of the tongue is very rare, and the more extensive operation of complete removal should be reserved for those cases in which it is obvious that both sides are involved, or in which there is disease of the opposite half demanding removal. Large ulcerating and infiltrating growths will recjuire complete removal, and so will most of the growths situated in the posterior part. THE OPERATIONS FOR LINGUAL CANCER 1. Whitehead's intrabuccal operation and its modi- fications.—This method consists in removing the whole or half of the tongue through the oral cavity, any of the preliminary steps mentioned previously, such as laryngotomj' or ligation of the exter- nal carotid or lingual, being performed according to the opinion of the operator. In cases where sufficient room cannot be obtained by the intro- duction of the gag, the cheek may be split back towards the masseter on the affected side. If it is desired to follow out the recommendations given above, and remove the muscular tissue down to the hyoid bone, this additional step will be found to give easy access. I have no hesitation in recommending it, as we must no longer consider the question of deformity, but endeavour to remove the disease com- pletely. By such an operation as this, with subsequent dissection of the glands, the requirements of the early case are met. Position of the patient.—This must depend upon whether a preliminary laryngotomy has been performed or not. If this has been done, and the back of the pharynx has been firmly plugged, the position of the patient is only of importance to the operator; the head may be raised or turned on the side, whichever appears the more convenient. AVhen no larjaigotomy has been done, even if the large vessels have been tied, there is always a risk of blood trickling down the larynx into the lungs and favouring the development, later, of septic pneumonia. There arc two positions in which the patient may be placed which will tend to prevent this :— i. Rose's position.—A sandbag is placed under the shoulders, and the head is allowed to hang back over the end of the table so that the mouth and throat are on a lower level than the trachea ; in this position little blood, even when the bleeding is free, can pass into the lungs. Unfortunately the position causes great congestion of the veins and venous bleeding. ii. The lateral position.—The patient lies on his side with the head unsupported by a pillow and turned forwards and downwards towards