RECTUM AND ANAL CANAL 7o6 lower rectum, say the last inch, may, in the absence of ulceration, be treated in the same manner. Dilatation of a stricture liigher in the rectum is often a difficult matter, but in the absence of ulceration a soft rubber dilator may be passed through the sigmoidoscope tube : a stiff metal instrument is dangerous, since it may readily perforate the bowel wall and cause perirectal inflammation. Complete proctotomy.—The bowel and tissues posteriorly are divided completely from a level above^the stricture in the median line, the knife emerging at the tip of the coccyx. Strictures associated with ulceration may be treated in this manner. Good drainage is secured, threatened obstruction overcome, and ulceration given a chance to heal. The after-treatment of this septic wound requires unremitting care, and during the healing contraction will occur, and constant dilatation will be required. Probably several weeks or even months will elapse before healing is complete. Incontinence of faeces is present at first, but is generally recovered from when healing is complete. Excision.—In strictures of the anal canal which do not respond to dilatation, Whitehead's operation may be performed. This may be a simple operation in congenital stricture, but in postoperative strictures the scar tissue may be dense, adherent to deeper parts, and difficult to dissect. The method probably has a very limited practicability, as most of these strictures can be readily dilated. In higher-lying strictures the affected bowel may be excised. The principles involved are similar to those of excision of an ulcerated rectum (p. 702). The excision of these strictures is a severe and difficult operation, and must never be lightly undertaken. It should be reserved, in suitable subjects, for high-lying undilatable or ulcerated strictures. In some measure, excision may be looked upon as an alternative to complete proctotomy. If successful, its advantages are the shortened convalescence and the restoration of the lumen of the bowel. It is, however, a much more severe and formidable operation. Colostomy may be necessary to relieve urgent obstruction. It is indicated in the majority of cases which are complicated with perirectal suppuration, sinuses, and fistulse. Patients enfeebled by pro- longed ulceration are often best treated by colostomy, for they are in no condition to stand the severe operation of excision, or the pro- longed suppuration after complete proctotomy. By care after the operation, the ulceration may heal. It may then be feasible to dilate the stricture or possibly to excise it. Later the colostomy may perhaps be closed (p. 703). PROLAPSE Prolapse may be defined as a protrusion through the anal orifice of parts normally situated within. It may be partial (Fig. 505), when