458 THE INTESTINES Cases are recorded in which those portions of the colon with an incomplete mesentery have ruptured into the retroperitoneal tissues, giving rise to localized suppuration, and in some instances to sur^al emphysema from the escape of intestinal gases. The colon has been ruptured by large enemata given for the rehef of constipation, and by foreign bodies entering the rectum. Clinical features.—In many cases it is evident from the general appearance of the patient that he has sustained a grave abdominal injury, while in others, with equally severe lesions, there is nothing to cause anxiety. The three symptoms most constantly present, which strongly suggest perforation of the bowel, are pain, vomiting, and muscular rigidity. The pai n is usually severe and persistent, and is more or less diffused over the belly, but it is most intense at the site of the visceral lesion. Tenderness on palpation also is usually most marked over the rupture. Vomiting often comes on at the time of the injury, continues after the stomach has emptied itself of food, and is attended by nausea. The presence of blood in the vomit indicates that the stomach or duodenum is the seat of the injury. If the vomit is bilious, the small intestine is probably injured. With the onset of peritonitis, the vomiting assumes the characteristic gulping character. Muscular rigidity is the most valuable and characteristic sign, especially when accompanied by tenderness. The fixation of the abdominal walls, and the restricted action of the diaphragm, render the respiration almost entirely thoracic. At first the abdomen is retracted to the extent of being scaphoid, but later it becomes prominent, either from paralytic distension of the bowel, or from the escape of gas into the peritoneal cavity. The early onset of tympanites is very significant of a rupture of the bowel. Shock is sometimes so severe as to prove fatal within a few minutes ; in other cases it is slight and evanescent. As a rule, aU the classical symptoms of shock are present, but in quite a number of cases the patient has shown none, and has continued to work for some hours and been able to walk home or to the hospital before he began to feel ill. In these cases, the first sign of the injury is the onset of peritonitis. Dullness in the flank may be due to empty, contracted bowel, or to extravasated blood, but it is not a reliable symptom, as the rigidity of the abdominal muscles may prevent its recognition. If the dullness changes with the position oiE the patient, it is usually dae to fluid blood or urine in the peritoneal cavity. The dullness from fluid blood is usually most marked above the pubes. The diminution of the area of liver dullness from the escape of gas into the peritoneal cavity is of no value, and this symptom should