EXTERNAL FISTULA OF STOMACH 401 Gastric Fistula On account of the- development of gastric surgery these cases are rarer now than formerly ; external gastric fistulas are particularly uncommon. External Fistulce Fall into two groups, the traumatic and the pathological, the latter being divided into primary, in which the causal disease originates in the stomach, and secondary, in which it begins in a neighbour- ing organ. Lieblein and Hilgenreiner based their article [Deutsche Chirurgie) in 1905 on 120 published cases. Formerly gastric ulcer was the most common cause ; now it is rarely seen except in advanced malignant disease. 1. Traumatic.—Alexis St. Martin was the most celebrated example of this condition. Fistulse rarely form nowadays as the result of injuries to the stomach, immediate operation saving the patient from this risk. Cases have been recorded in which a foreiga body swallowed has perforated the stomach, caused a perigastric abscess wliich has opened externally, and thus led to a gastric fistula. A fistula occasionally follows operations upon the stomach and neigh- bouring organs ; and cases have been recorded following operations upon pancreatic cysts, cholecysto-gastrostomy, gastro-enterostomy, and nephrectomy. 2. Pathological, (a) Pmnary.—In both simple and malignant ulcers of the stomach, fistula may be a secondary result of subacute perforation, a perigastric abscess forming, which is opened or bursts through the anterior abdominal wall. In a few cases the fistula may be the result of the direct involvement of the abdominal wall. Cases have been recorded in which the stomach was contained in a strangulated ventral hernia, and a fistula followed operation. (b) Secondary.—These are usually due to disease of the liver and gall-bladder; cases have also been recorded after operation upon hydatid cysts of liver, etc. Symptoms.—The characteristic feature is the discharge of stomach contents from an opening, situated in most cases in the lower epigastric region, the umbilical region, or the left hypochondrium. If it is small, very little effect is produced on the general condition of the patient; if the discharge is great the patient wastes, and much discomfort is caused by irritation of the skin. The diagnosis may have to be made from duodenal fistula ; this is usually easy from the position of the external opening, and is facilitated by noting the characters of the discharge and the lapse of time between ingestion of food and its appearance at the opening. In a gastric fistula, food generally appears within a short time of