368 THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM pouch, then passed down along the outer side of the ascending colon as far as the pelvis, and overflowed into this. In these cases the symptoms are by no means typical, and, in the absence of a previous history pointing to duodenal ulcer, are very liable to be mistaken for appendicitis. It should be borne in mind that the two diseases may coexist, and that cases of simul- taneous perforation of a duodenal ulcer and acute appendicitis are not unknown. Thus, there are two types of perforation—those in which, from the immediate symptoms, the diagnosis of a perforated peptic ulcer is possible; and those in which the onset is more gradual, the symp- toms that bring the patient under observation resembling those of appendicitis or subphrenic abscess. Fortunately the first is the larger group. Diagnosis.—In the first group the diagnosis cannot be made from a perforated gastric ulcer except on the previous history. In the cases with subacute symptoms of perforation or with signs resem- bling those of appendicitis, only the greatest care in eliciting the pre- vious history and the history of the onset of the lesion will enable the diagnosis to be made. In most cases this will be possible ; the onset of " acute abdominal " symptoms in an adult male should always raise the suspicion that the duodenum is at fault. Occasionally the perforation is retroperitoneal, with the gradual formation of a swelling in the right loin, usually associated with contraction of the psoas muscle. The abscess, as in a case recorded by Wagner, may simulate a psoas abscess due to spinal disease, and may point in the inguinal region. There is no absolutely sudden onset, but pain with a raised temperature. If the previous symptoms of ulcer have not been typical the diagnosis is not made until after the abscess has been opened and a duodenal fistula forms. These cases are rare ; one successfully treated by operation has been recorded by Lawford ELnaggs. It might be supposed that if the abdomen has been opened on the diagnosis of a perforated peptic ulcer no further difiiculty will arise, yet in one such case the discovery of fat necrosis at the root of the mesentery led me to abandon further search. In this case an ulcer of the second part of the duodenum had perforated and permitted the escape of pancreatic juice into the peritoneal cavity. A similar instance of fat necrosis associated with a perforated duodenal ulcer has been since recorded by H. M. Richter. Treatment.—The abdomen should be opened through the right rectus muscle. As a rule the ulcer is at once seen. It should be infolded and gastro-jejunostomy performed if the condition of the patient admit. After examining for further perforations the right