HYSTERECTOMY 1023 the bottom of the utero-vesical pouch is reached. This is then opened. The cervix being now pulled forwards, the utero-rectal pouch is opened behind it. The uterus is then pulled down and, the pulsations of the uterine artery having been defined, the base of either broad ligament is transfixed above the vessel, ligatured and divided. The uterus, now much more mobile, is pulled farther down, and the upper part of the broad ligament with the ovary, ovarico-pelvic ligament, tube and round ligament on either side is included in a couple of ligatures and divided. The vaginal vault is partly closed, and the aperture remaining into the peritoneal cavity lightly plugged with gauze. When access to the upper part of the broad ligaments is difficult, it may be facilitated by antefiexing the uterine body. Sometimes it is better simply to clamp tlie broad ligaments in sections before dividing them, and to apply the ligatures afterwards. Advantages and disadvantages.—The advantages of vaginal hysterec- tomy are its ease in most cases, and its low mortality (about 6 per cent.). But not more than 1-5 per cent, of the cases are suitable, and of these a very large proportion suffer from recurrence within a year. Radical hystero - vaginectomy by paravaginal section. Standard of operability.—Access to the pelvis from below can be much facilitated by performing paravaginal section. This consists in making an incision along the junction of the left lateral and posterior vaginal walls, which, dividing the skin of the perineum on the left side, sweeps round the rectum towards the coccyx. The anterior fibres of the left levator ani are severed and a large gap is effected, through which a much more extensive operation is possible. It is better in carcinoma of the cervix to remove the whole vagina with the uterus, and in this case it is first separated from the skin and its end sewn up so as to exclude the disease from the area of the operation. It is then dissected free of the bladder in front, the rectum behind, and the cellular tissue laterally, before the paravaginal section is performed. The remaining steps are similar to those of vaginal hysterectomy, except that the ureters are clearly defined and pushed aside, so that the bases of the broad ligaments may be ligatured and divided far out towards the pelvic side wall. Advantages and disadvantages. — By paravaginal section about 40 per cent, of the cases are operable. Infiltration of the vaginal vault or moderate extension into the broad ligaments or utero-sacral folds does not contra-indicate the operation, but extension to the bladder or rectum or massive infiltration around the ureter renders it impossible. It has the disadvantage that it is impossible to examine the regional glands until the operation has been practically concluded, and in any event they cannot be removed by this route.