MAGROGLOSSIA 201 by the development of minute cysts or " blisters," which readily rupture. (Plate 87.) At first only a portion of the tongue is affected, l)ut the process spreads until the whole organ is attacked. From time to time there are outbreaks of acute inflammation, which leave the tongue larger and firmer than before. At first the tongue is concealed within the mouth, and shows, on inspection, general enlargement with hypertrophy of the papillae ; gTadually, however, with the increasing size there is difficulty in retain- ing it within the oral boundaries, the saliva dribbles away, and the tongue protrudes, its surface, from exposure to the air, becoming hard, brown, cracked and fissured. Progressively the bones of the oral cavity become affected; and in some cases, even after proper treat- ment of the affected organ, closure of the jaws may be impossible. Treatment consists in freely removing part of the organ by means of a V-shaped cut, and suturing the edges of the wound together. A sufficient amount should be removed to allow the tongue to lie easilj'' within the mouth ; and at the same time the operator must bear in mind that he is dealing with a form of new growth, and he should therefore endeavour to cut wide of the morbid tissue, otherwise recur- rence in the stump is likely to ensue. The operation is attended by profuse bleeding, and steps must be taken to deal promptly with the hsemorrhage. In the case of very young children it may be wise to postj^one the operation for some years, as its performance has been fatal. The child should be spoon fed—it cannot suck—until sufficiently strong to stand what may be a formidable surgical procedure, and then subjected to the operation. 2. Muscular Macroglossia A true muscular hypertrophy, in which there is an increase in number and size (Helbing) of the muscular fibres, is occasionally seen. Such a condition may occur in a normal individual, the " lingua vituli"; more usually it is met with in cretins and congenital idiots. In some cases the enlargement may be unilateral. It may be asso- ciated with abnormal enlargement of other parts of the body, and is therefore part of a gigantism or increased growth of the individual, probably the effect of some obscure nervous influence. Treatment.—The activity of the treatment must depend upon the amount of inconvenience resulting from the deformity. Treat- ment is not to be undertaken so readily as in the former variety, since the progress of the growth is slow and there are none of the characteristic features of a "new growth" present. Occasionally the two forms are combined, in which case early radical treatment^ is indicated.