EXCRETORY FUNCTION 435 canal.—Many of the clinical symptoms of disease in the intestine are to be explained by reflex influences exerted by one part of the tract on another, or even by one viscus on another. For example, vomiting of stomach contents is a symptom common to many lesions of the abdomen, apart from those of the stomach. Again, hyper- chlorhydria may be induced by pathological changes in the vermiform appendix, which probably accounts for the condition spoken of as " appendicular dyspepsia." Handling of one part of the intestine may inhibit the peristalsis in other parts, and lead to more or less complete stasis of intestinal contents. A striking example is the complete inliibition of gastric and intestinal movements which immediately follows a perforation or a bullet-wound of the stomach or intestine—a protective reflex which tends to prevent the escape of the bowel contents or their spread throughout the peritoneal cavity. Cannon has shown in the cat that resection of a portion of the jejunum, with end-to-end suture, was followed by closure of the pyloric sphincter, which persisted for six hours—a period sufficiently long to admit of a protective plastic exudate forming at the seat of the anastomosis. When the resection was made low down in the ileum, the closure of the pylorus did not last so long, but the progress of the contents along the canal was retarded, a bismuth meal taking about seven hours to reach the seat of the anastomosis. Excretory Function op the Intestine The fseces normally contain connective-tissue fibres, a small amount of muscle, traces of fat, fatty acids and soaps, remnants of starch, and inorganic crystals. Though many changes may take place in the constituents, probably the only one characteristic of disease of the small intestine is an increase in the starch granules. The pigment of the faeces is urobilin. In health it is only found in the colon, but in obstructive conditions it may be present even in the jejunum. In the small intestine are found the bile pigments, bilirubin and biliverdin, which are transformed by the bacteria of the colon to urobihn. In purgation, however, the fseces may contain bile pigments. With ordinary diet, the reaction of the stools is almost neutral. If the putrefaction of proteins is increased, as in intestinal tuber- culosis and dysentery, it becomes alkahne ; and increased fermen- tation of carbohydrates produces acid stools. The consistence of the faeces varies with the amounts of water, fat, mucus, and indigestible residue that they contain. Scybala are composed of food taken some days previously, and are formed in the saccuU of the colon.