RUPTURE OF THE BLADDER S57 through the urethra, or the mucous membrane alone is prolapsed. The exciting cause is straining due to coughing, sneezing, constijoation, or diarrhoea. There is a round swehing at the meatus, the size of a wahiut or an orange, covered with reddened, easily bleeding, mucous membrane, on which the ureters are sometimes visible. The tumour is tender, increases in size on straining, and is irreducible or only reduced with difficulty. A probe passes along the uretlira alongside the tumour, and can be swept round it, but is not free in the bladder. There is incontinence of urine. The tumour may not recur after reduction. Melted paraffin lias been injected around the lax urethra. Gysto-ureteropexy and plastic operations on the urethra have been successful. PERIVESICAL HYDATID CYSTS Hydatid cysts in the pelvic subperitoneal tissue may be primary or. more frequently, secondary. The cyst becomes adherent to the bladder, prostate, and rectum, and mounts above the brim of the pelvis. There is bladder irritation, pain on micturition, and later retention of urine. Sciatica may be j)resent. A firm, rounded, dull swelling appears above the pubes and closely resembles the distended bladder. On passing a catheter the swelling remains, and on bimanual examination fluctuation can be detected. Hydatid fremitus is rarely elicited. The diagnosis is greatlj' assisted by the " comple- ment-fixation " reaction. The cyst is opened suprapubically, and the contents completely removed. The cavity is drained if septic, and closed if aseptic. INJURIES Rupture Tliis may involve the inner coat aloue, but generally it is com- plete. Fully 90 per cent, of cases occur in male subjects, and usually between tlie ages of 20 and 40. The bladder is invariably distended at the time of the rupture. A considerable proportion of ruptures occur during alcoholic intoxication, and follow kicks, blows, or crushes. In fracture of the pelvis a splinter of bone may penetrate the bladder. Rupture may also result from indirect violence, such as falls from a height, muscular efEort or straining, and it has followed the forcible injection of fluid into a diseased bladder. Spontaneous rupture has occurred in an ulcerated or cancerous bladder. Pathology.—The rent is most frequently situated on the postero-superior wall, and opens the peritoneal cavity. Extraperi- toneal rupture is less common, and afEects the anterior or lateral walls. Rupture of the base or lateral walls usually results from fracture of the pelvis, but has been observed without fracture. The rupture is single and usually small in size, with clear-cut or bruised margins. When the rupture is intraperitoneal the urine escapes into the peri- toneal cavity and general peritonitis supervenes. Aseptic urine does not necessarily cause peritonitis, although it is toxic when absorbed. The urine very readily becomes infected, usually from the passage of instruments. In extraperitoneal rupture the urine infiltrates the cellular planes and suppuration follows.