TUBAL PREGNANCY: TREATMENT 1063 ligament obliterated by sutures, or, if too large for this procedure brought to the surface and drained. A ruptured interstitial gestation may be treated either by subtotal hysterectomy—or better, if possible, by exsection of the tube and cornu—and repair of the uterus by sutures. Intraperitoneal and intraligamentous gestation up to the sixth month should be treated by removal of the sac. In the first case the adhesions to the omentum, back of the uterus and broad ligament, and to the bowel, wiU have to be dealt with. Where possible, they should be Ligatured or clamped before division, but in any circumstances the bleeding will be very free. In the second case the haemorrhage wiU be still more marked, the whole of the sac being commonly placentous. It is frequently best in these circumstances to remove the body of the uterus as weU as the tube on the involved side. In either event the operation requires raj^id and determined execution. In the last three months of extra-uterine pregnancy operation may be necessitated by rupture of the secondary sac or separation of the extra-uterine placenta, but the haemorrhage involved is such that all authorities agree in preferring to await, if possible, the death of the foetus and cessation of the placental circulation, after which the removal of the gestation is comparatively easy. If comjaelled to inter- fere, the surgeon may—(1) remove the foetus alone and deliberately sequester the placenta by suturing up the sac, (2) remove the foetus and drain the sac with the placenta in situ, or (3) attempt the removal of the entire sac and its contents. Of these the first plan is the best, but the strictest asepsis must be observed. Drainage of the sac is peculiarly fatal, the patient usuallv dying of sepsis or of secondary hsemorrhage. The third undertaking is very formidable, unless the placenta is mainly attached to the omentum, when it can be ligatured off successfully. CARCINOMA This is a rare disease. The growth assumes a papillary form which, distending the tube, eventually ruptures it into the peritoneal cavity. There is strong evidence that the neoplasm is the outcome of chronic salpingitis in which, as already described, there is a marked tendency for the epithelium to proliferate. A very frequent symptom is a blood- stained watery uterine discharge, originating in the hydrosalpinx pro- duced by the growth occluding the abdominal ostium of the tube. In many cases free fluid is present in the peritoneum. Diagnosis is difficult, salpingitis being closely simulated. A blood-stained dis- charge with ascites is suggestive. Ablation of the diseased tube, with the uterus and the rest of the adnexa, is the only treatment.