829 RENAL TUBERCULOSIS Symptoms. L Vesical symptoms—The symptoms may be entirely contined to the bladder. The onset is insidious, with gradually increasing frequency of micturition, at first during the day, and later at night also. 2. Changes in the urine.—Polyuria is an early symptom. It exists only on the diseased side, and is more marked at night. The urine is abundant, very pale and opalescent, faintly acid or neutral, and hazy, with a small amount of pus well mixed with the urine. The urea and chlorides are reduced. Heematuria may be entirely absent, or only present in microscopic amount. There may be slight persistent terminal hsematuria or a considerable outburst of haemorrhage, which may precede other symptoms by many months and recur during the course of the disease. Albuminuria may be present independently of pyuria or h?ematuria. 3. Pain—The kidney may be completely destroyed without pain, but renal aching is sometimes present, and the patient may be unable to lie on the affected side. Ureteral colic may be caused by the passage of clots or debris. Pain at the neck of the bladder and at the end of the penis is due to cystitis. 4. Other symptoms.—On examination the tuberculous kidney is not u.sually enlarged. If palpable it may be hard and irregular. It is frequently tender. In the late stage it may be small, shrunken, and not palpable, or it may be hydronephrotic and enlarged. There is frequently tenderness along the line of the ureter, which can be felt as a thick cord on deep palpation of the abdomen, or on rectal or vaginal examination. The second kidney may be enlarged, painful and tender from hypertrophy, with or without commencing tuberculosis. There is progressive loss of weight and lassitude. Course and prognosis.—The course is slow, and remission of the symptoms for weeks and even months may be observed. The disease gradually advances until death takes place some years (seven or even ten) after the onset of the symptoms. The disease progresses until the kidney is completely destroyed ; during this time the bladder and the second kidney become affected. Septic infection may be superadded either by haematogenous infection or, more frequently, by ascending infection from septic cystitis caused by catheterization or bladder washing. General tuberculosis rarely follows. Death takes place from anuria when both kidneys are invaded, or from exhaustion due to septic infection. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis can usually be made by the discovery of tubercle bacilli with pus or blood in the urine, but when the ureter is completely blocked no changes may be observed in the urine. In doubtful cases von Pirquet's and Calmette's tests may be usefuL