17 ACUTE MAMMARY ABSCESS 2. Intramammarij abscess is the most common and most important variety. Owing to the depth at which the pus forms, fluctuation may be absent, or difficult to elicit. Pus may burrow extensively through the gland in various directions before it approaches the skin. Meantime, constitutional disturbance is often severe, and the whole breast is involved in cedematous swelling. Later, when the abscess is beginning to point, the skin becomes red or mottled. After such an abscess, unless surgical treatment is careful and thorough, the breast may be left in a disorganized and useless condition, riddled by persistent sinuses, and sometimes shrunken and deformed by cicatrization. 3. Retromammary abscess is not common. It may arise from necrosis or tuberculosis of a rib, from tuberculosis of the sternum, from an infected hsematoma, or from suppuration of the deeper portions of the breast. The collection of pus is usually large, and is situated between the great pectoral and the deep surface of the mamma. The breast is thrust prominently forward, and is found to be lying upon a fluctuating cushion of pus. The skin of the breast is not reddened. The abscess usually points at the lower and outer margin of tlie breast. Prophylaxis of mammary abscess.—It is necessary to take precautions against cracks, fissures, or abrasions of the nipple, to keep the nipple and the child's mouth in as aseptic a condition as possible, and to maintain tlie patency of the milk-ducts. During pregnancy the nipple should be hardened by regularly rubbing it with alcohol (eau-de-Cologne or spirit). After suckling the nipple must be bathed with boric lotion and then carefully dried, and the infants' mouth cleansed with a rag dipped in the same lotion. Treatment of mammary abscess.—The abscess, if subareolar or intramammary, must be opened at the earliest possible moment by a free incision, which, in order to avoid cutting the milk-ducts, should radiate from the nipple. The fuiger should be introduced into the cavity, and all septa found traversing it should be broken down so as to ensure free drainage. A rubber tube should be left in the cavity, and careful watch kept for burrowing or pocketing of pus in new directions. A dry gauze dressing, changed daily, may be applied. If any signs of burrowing appear, a director must be passed in various directions, and the pockets must either be slit up along their whole length, or opened and drained by tubes at the most dependent points. Constitutional and general treatment will vary according to the nature of the abscess. Lactation must be stopped either by the regular administration of white mixture, or of saline purgatives in other combinations, or by giving potassium iodide in doses of 5-10 gr. c