RECTUM AND ANAL CANAL 6/2 (with the sphincters) is developed, may give a good result. If, on the other hand, the rectum lies high, the operation will be severe and the prognosis grave. When recovery ensues, three accidents may befall the anus : (a) A stricture may occur; this will not happen if the bowel, which has been brought well down, and sutured to the skin, does not later recede. A stricture has probably always resulted in those cases where the bowel has been blindly opened at some depth in the perineum, and a fistulous track established between the bowel and the perineum. This is not an anus, {b) There may be deficient sphincteric control of the new anus. If the proctodceum is developed, and care has been taken to preserve the sphincters, then control may be obtained ; but in the absence of development of the proctodseum the internal sphincter is absent, and probably the external, if developed at all, is very poor, and there will be no control, (c) In some cases prolapse of the mucous membrane has occurred. This is likely to happen when there is no sphincteric closure of the anus. 2. The treatment of this group may differ with the sex of the patient and with the severity of symptoms. In the female the opening in the vulval cleft is frequently of sufficient size to allow the escape of the intestinal contents, it is provided with a sphincter, and the proctodseum is very frequently absent. It would therefore seem best to leave things alone. Transplanting the anus from the vulva to the perineum would merely substitute an anus in the normal position without control for the one in the abnormal position with control. If, however, the aperture is too small, an anus should be made in the normal site. In the male the condition is different, for the aperture is nearly always too small, and some relief from obstruction is required. If this is not necessary in early infancy it will become so later. In such cases the urgency of symptoms and age of the child will decide whether a primary colostomy or a perineal dissection should be performed. H^MOREHOIDS, OR PILES This term includes a variety of conditions dependent primarily, in the majority of cases, upon a varicosity of the veins of the lower rectum and anal canal. Etiology.—The condition is most common in middle life, and affects both sexes equally. Although not unknown, it is very rare in childhood; indeed, an instance of congenital piles is recorded. It appears to be certain that there is an hereditary predisposition. Mechanical congestion of the rectal veins is the exciting cause, and habitual constipation one of the most important etiological factors. During normal deftecation temporary dilatation of the valveless lower rectal and anal veins is encouraged by (1) the passage of faeces through