789 SOLITARY KIDNEY CONGENITAL ABNORMALITIES OF THE KIDNEY AND URETER Fcetal lobulation of the kidneys occasionally persists throughout life. Complete absence of both kidneys has been found in acephalic foetuses. Supernumerary kidneys are rare. A third kidney has occasionally been found. Absence or Atrophy of One Kidney In 93 cases which I collected of death from urfemia or anuria after an operation on one kidney, the second kidney was absent in 10 and com- pletely " atrophied " in 8. Unsymmetrical kidney and extreme congenital atropliy of the kidney occurs in 1 in 2,400 bodies (Morris). The left kidney is more frequently absent than the right, and male subjects are more often affected than female in the proportion of 2 to 1. The renal vessels on the affected side are absent or rudunentary, and the ureter is absent (9.3 per cent.) or is represented by a solid fibrous cord attached to the bladder. The corresponding half of the vesical trigone is atrophied. The ureteric orifice may be undiscoverable, but occasionally shows as a small dimple or even as an opening into a lumen extending from 1 to 2 cm. In 70'8 per cent, of cases there is some associated congenital malformation in the genital system, almost always on the same sicle. Other congenital malformations have also been noted, such as hare-lip, web-fingers, etc. The solitary kidney is usually larger than normal, lobulated, and often globular or irregular in shape. The single ureter enters the bladder in the usual position, or is displaced towards the middle line or to some abnormal position such as the in-ethra. Extreme congenital atrophy is very rare, but a less comjjlete form is more frequently observed. The condition is usually due to loss of function of the kidney from blocking of the ureter or disease of the kidney itself. In congenital atrophy some rudiment of the kidney is always found, and the ureter is present, although sometimes merely as a fibrous cord. Dangers and diagnosis of solitary kidney.—A single kidney is prone to be attacked by disease such as calculus, malignant growths, tuberculosis, and chronic nephritis. Apart from this, however, the condition does not shorten life. It is imperative that proof of the presence of an active second kidney be obtained whenever nephrectomy is proposed. Congenital malformation of the generative organs is present in 70'8 per cent, of these cases, and should lead to a thorough investigation of the second kidney. On cystoscopy the ureteric orifice is absent in 33 per cent, of cases. When a ureteric orifice is present the ureter should be catheterized. Finally, lumbar exploration of the kidney should be carried out when the previous methods have failed. Abdominal exjiloration has proved fallacious. Fused Kidneys Fusion of the kidneys into one mass gives rise to an organ presenting a great variety of sizes and shapes. The lowest degree of fusion is when two kidneys are united by a fibrous band, and the highest when two kidneys are indistinguishably fused in a single mass. The following names have been applied to the various shapes, viz. horse-shoe kidney, S-shaped kidney, long kidney, shield-like kidney, discoid kidney. The horse-shoe kidney is the most common degree of fusion—1 in 1,000 bodies (Morris). The kidneys are united by a band passing between the