SPERMATIC CORD 964 Keetley's. The patient should be assured that atrophy of the testes and loss of virility will not occur, and should be treated on general lines for neurasthenia, if present. Operation should be reserved for very large varicoceles which cause severe discomfort and pain or interfere with the patient's work or exercise, and is contra-indicated when neurasthenic symptoms are well marked. By far the most usual object of operating is to enable the patient to enter one of the public services. The wisdom of rejecting candidates because they have a varicocele is doubtful, as the condition is in itself seldom a source of trouble. The operation consists in removing an inch or so of the anterior group of veins of the spermatic cord, the small posterior group running with the artery to the vas being carefully preserved. The veins should be exposed just where they are entering the external abdominal ring, and it is useless to attempt to separate the spermatic artery from the veins. This artery is nearly always included in the ligature, but if the artery to the vas and its veins are preserved, as well as the sym- pathetic plexus of nerves rimning with it, atrophy of the testis does not ensue. The operation is frequently followed by an epididymo-orcliitis, but if suppuration does not occur the condition soon disappears. Pain from the inclusion of the ilio-inguinal nerve in a ligature may follow the operation, and neurasthenics may complain of pain, atrophy of the testis, and loss of virility. ENDEMIC FUNICULITIS Endemic funiculitis is an acute inflammation of the spermatic cord wliich occurs in certain tropical and subtropical countries. The cause is unknown, but it is undoubtedly due to bacterial infection, and a diplococcus has been isolated from the affected tissue. The pathological anatomy is that of an acute inflammation of the cellular tissue of the cord with a thrombosis of the veins of the pampiniform plexus. Suppuration is the common termination. Symptoms.—The onset of the disease is sudden, with constipa- tion, vomiting, and a raised temperature. These symptoms, with the physical sign of a painful swelling in the scrotum extending up to the abdominal rings, suggest strangulated hernia, but the signs of inflammation are more marked, wliile the general symptoms are not so severe. The skin over the swelling is red and cedematous, and there is no impulse on cougliing. With suppuration, the swelUng becomes soft and fluctuating, and there is sloughing of the testis. Treatment.—The whole of the cord and the testis should be excised and the scrotum drained in severe cases, but in the milder forms free incision, drainage, and fomentation will suffice.