THE PROSTATE The catheters (wliich, of course, must be carefully sterilized) should be soft and large-bored, the coude or bi-coude being the most con- venient shape. Metal catheters should only be used if soft ones cannot be passed, and then only by the surgeon. A gum-elastic catheter, of which the curve can be altered whilst in the urethra by partially with- drawing the stilette, is often serviceable. Permanent catheterization is indicated if with cystitis catheteriza- tion is difficult, painful, or associated with haemorrhage. A soft, self- retaining catheter, such as Casper's, should be passed, and, if the bladder is washed out twice daily, may be retained for a month and then changed. At first the patient should be kept in bed, but later he may be allowed up with a suitable apparatus; he should empty the bladder every two or three hours. A urethritis is always caused at first, but this soon ceases, and the catheter may be worn with comfort. Cystitis should be treated by the administration of urinary anti- septics, and by washing out the bladder; and strict asepsis is essential in all instrumentation. Operative measures.—The modern operative treatment of the chronically enlarged prostate consists of removal of the organ, either by the suprapubic or the perineal route. Whether the prostate is removed in its entirety from its sheath, or whether fibro-myomatous or adenomatous growths are shelled out from the prostate, is a matter of dispute, and is of little interest from the clinical point of view, but the question of the selection of cases suitable for this operation is of vital importance. There can be no doubt that some patients with prostatic enlarge- ment live for years in comfort by careful attention to their mode of life and the occasional passing of a catheter, but, on the other hand, many cases do badly. Difficulty in passing a catheter, haemorrhage, cystitis, attacks of acute retention, and the formation of calculi are common, and lead to much misery ; while the back-pressure effects on the kidneys with ascending pyelitis tend to shorten life, and render some radical treatment necessary. Complete prostatectomy in the majority of cases relieves the patient of all his symptoms and is a most successful operation, but it is not without serious risk of death from shock or haemorrhage, and important sequelae and complications may deduct from the value of the result. It must also be remembered that in some cases—10 per cent., according to some observers—^the diagnosis should be carcinoma of the prostate, and tlie early removal may possibly result in cure, which is most unlikely if the patient is left till the diagnosis is certain. The condition of the prostate must also be considered, the large soft prostate being much more readily removed, with less fear of com- plications, than the hard small prostate.