THE KIDNEY 784 examination has shown a complete absence of any lesion of the urinary mucous membrane. Symptoms.—When passed the urine is hazy and frequently opalescent from the suspension of myriads of bacteria. On rotating a glass beaker, so as to circulate the fluid, a peculiar and characteristic appearance like drifting mist or smoke is seen. The reaction is usually acid, occasionally neutral, and rarely alkaline. On centrifugalization, no deposit is obtained and the fluid remains cloudy. The urine has usually a strong fishy odour and contains a trace of albumin. Under the microscope the field is crowded with bacteria, usually the motile Bacillus coli. A few leucocytes may be found, and epithelial cells from the renal pelvis, ureter, and bladder, or the pro- static urethra. The only constant sign is the bacterial emulsion in the urine. The urine may remain constantly cloudy for months or years, or it may suddenly clear, perhaps to become clouded again with equal suddenness. There may be no symptoms at all, but signs of localized inflammation are seldom entirely absent. These consist in increased frequency of micturi- tion, and urgency or scalding on passing water. In children, nocturnal enuresis may result. Frequently, if the prostatic urethra or the prostate is the seat of the bacterial growth, the last few drops of urine are milky with bacterial emulsion, while the rest is merely hazy. In other cases the focus of bacterial growth is confined to the renal pelvis. Prognosis.—In some cases bacteriuria is transient and appears for a few days only, rapidly disappearing under treatment. Usually, however, it continues with exacerbations and remissions for months or years. During this time the health of the patient may be uninfluenced, but there is the constant danger of a virulent bacterial inflamination arising in some part of the urinary tract. Trea>tment.—This consists in the administration of urinary anti- septics and diluents, and in local treatment of the focus of inflammation and removal of the source of bacterial infection. Of urinary antiseptics the best are urotropine (15—30 gr. daily), oil of turpentine (15-30 minims daily) in capsule, hetraline or helmitol (30 gr. daily), and salol (30 gr. daily). The administration of diuretics and alkaline waters with these antiseptics renders the urine less suitable for bacterial growth. Contrexeville, Vichy, or Evian water may be given, or the patient directed to drink large quantities of distilled water or barley-water. Rovsing advises that a catheter should be retained in the urethra for a week or more while salol is administered by the mouth and large quan- tities of distilled water are drunk. Where the focus of bacterial growth is confined to the prostatic urethra, washing the bladder and urethra by Janet's irrigation method may quickly relieve the symptoms and suppress the bacterial growth. The solutions suitable for this irrigation are permanganate of potash (1 in 10,000 to 1 in 5,000), oxycyanide of mercury (1 in 10,000), and nitrate of silver (1 in 10,000). It is of the utmost importance to empty and regulate the bowel and prevent further absorption. A course of artificially soured milk may be continued for several months. Anti-coli horse serum has been administered with some success in acute cases of Bacillus coli infection of the urinary tract, and may be tried. A dose of 25 c.c. of the serum should be injected subcutaneously on three successive days. If improvement has not taken place at the end of that time, the treat- ment should be abandoned. Calcium lactate (20 gr. thrice daily) should be administered by the mouth to prevent the unpleasant effects of the serum.