RECTUM AND ANAL CANAL 692 pus from the bowel. On examination an induration may be felt in the ischio-rectal fossa, more evident at times than at others. With a speculum the internal orifice may be seen, and pus observed to issue from it. Cure cannot be expected without operation, since the drainage from the abscess into the bowel is always inefficient. Treatment.—(a) When the internal orifice is between the sphincter muscles a probe should, if possible, be passed through the orifice, directed towards the surface, and its end exposed by incising the tissues superficial to it. Or, if the swelling is palpable, it may be incised from the surface. In either case the sinus is converted into a fistula and treated as such, (b) When the orifice is above the internal sphincter muscle the operation performed as above would necessarily divide the muscle, and incontinence of fajces would probably result. A rectal sinus above the interna] sphincter nearly always arises from some ulceration cf the bowel, and this must be treated. The abscess should be incised from the surface, efficient drainage provided, and the track through the bowel wall treated as for a fistula in this region (p. 690). Complicated Fistula Under this heading are included some of the rarer forms of rectal fistulse. Two varieties may be considered : (1) the fistula communicat- ing with some adjacent viscus—the bladder, the urethra, or the vagina ; and (2) the fistula dependent originally upon some chronic bone disease. 1. {a) Recto-vesical fistula—This may be caused by rectal ulceration spreading to the bladder, by a pelvi-rectal abscess opening both into the bowel and the bladder, or more rarely by injuries, such as bullet wounds or buffer crushes. The typical symptoms of a recto-vesical fistula are those caused by the escape of the contents of one viscus into the other. Urine may pass into the rectum or fseces into the bladder, and theoretically it would seem that both may occur. Practically, however, a valve-like action develops, and the current is only in one direction. Severe cystitis and the presence of fseces in the bladder cause extreme suffering and painful micturition. Excoriation of the skin of the anal region may occur from the constant passage over it of urine. The treatment varies with the cause of the fistula. If this is due to malignant disease, and fseces are entering the bladder, a palliative colostomy is indicated, though the less distressing symptoms of urine escaping into the bowel will not, of course, be relieved. Cystostomy may be necessary in some cases where micturition is extremely painful. When the fistula is narrow and of inflammatory origin, success has attended cauterization through a long rectal speculum, with or without a preliminary posterior proctotomy. When this fails, or when the