340 THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM In less severe cases it not infrequently happens that, after five or six weeks, signs of cardiac or pyloric obstruction develop. The appro-; priate operation should be done—in the former case gastrostomy, in the latter gastro-jejunostomy. It sometimes happens that hour-glass stomach develops. This should be treated on the usual lines (p. 324). Gastro-jejunostomy will suffice in most cases, as the pyloric pouch is small. GASTRIC AND DUODENAL ULCERS The stomach, and the duodenum as far as the entrance of the common bile-duct, are frequently the seat of ulcers, which are identical so far as their anatomical features are concerned, and probably caused in a similar manner ; it is customary to classify them as acute and chronic. GASTRIC ULCER Etiology.—Gastric ulcer is an extremely common condition. Brinton's statement that a " peptic " ulcer, open or healed, was present in 5 per cent, of all autopsies has been confirmed by Welch and Greenhough and Joslin. It is more common in Lorthern chmates, and in England than in Europe. Sex and age.—It was at one time customary to consider gastric ulcer essentially a disease of women. In the cases diagnosed clinically the proportion is about 75 females to 25 males. But since the develop- ment of the surgery of the stomach our ideas have undergone a change, for in many cases, diagnosed clinically as gastric ulcer, particularly in young women, no ulcer was found; for these Hale White suggests the name gastrostaxis ; according to Sir Bertrand Dawson, some of them proved to be septic gastritis. If these cases are excluded, it is found that the frequency is only slightly greater in women than in men. During the ten years 1899-1908, 343 patients with gastric ulcer in whom the diagnosis was confirmed by operation or post mortem were treated in the London Hospital; of these 199 were women and 144 men. Perforation had occurred in 136 of these cases, 92 of wliich were those of women. This about corresponds witli the figures given by Brinton for perforated ulcers—• twice as common in women as in men. Of the chronic ulcers operated upon for causes other than perforation, the numbers were almost equal: women 107, men 100. Of 28 patients with perforated ulcer personally operated upon up to December, 1911, 13 were men ; but of the patients operated upon for chronic ulcer, 97 in number, in all of whom a definite ulcer was demonstrated, 60 were men. In addition, I have explored the stomach in 11 patients, all women with symptoms of gastric ulcer, and found no gastric lesion; such cases have by some been described as " medical ulcers." It is safe to say that acute perforating ulcer is more usually met with in women, but that the chronic ulcer needing surgical treatment is more common in men. Gastric ulcer is a disease of adult life; although isolated cases have been