9i8 THE PROSTATE 1 See also Vol. I., p. 509. Complications of complete prostatectomy.—Hcemonhage may be severe, but will usually yield to sponge-pressure and adrenalin. It may, however, be necessary to pack the cavity left by removal of the prostate. Sepsis.—^Acute epididymo-orchitis may occur, especially if cystitis have existed before the operation. The condition frequently ends in suppuration. Ascending pyelitis may also occur. Cellulitis of the pelvic tissue is an occasional sequela. Stricture, incontinence of urine, and suprapubic fistula may aU follow the operation. The sexual power may be lost, but this is more common after the perineal operation than after the suprapubic. Power of erection may remain, but without ejaculation of semen. In some cases, lost sexual power may be regained. TJrcBmia with suppression of urine may speedily follow operation. Calculi may form in the pouch left after removal of the prostate. Treatment of acute retention of urine due to en- larged prostate.—A full dose of urotropine should be given, and an attempt made to empty the bladder by catheterization. If this succeeds, the bladder must be emptied regularly untU the power of spontaneous micturition is regained. A second attack of retention should not be allowed to occur. If regular catheterization is impos- sible, a catheter should be tied into the bladder for a day or two. If catheterization fails, the bladder should be aspirated above the pubes, and then another attempt made to pass and tie in a catheter. If, after two or three suprapubic aspirations, attempts to catheterize fail, the bladder should be drained through a suprapubic incision, and a day or two later the prostate removed by this route. NEW GROWTHS Benign growths of the prostate only exist as the adenomas and fibro- myomas of chronic enlargement, and have been considered under that heading (p. 913). Malignant growths of the prostate consist of sarcoma and car- cinoma, of which the latter is by far the more common. Sarcoma^ Sarcoma of the prostate is rare, but it occurs at all ages, even sometimes in infants; it is invariably primary. Symptoms.—There is an increasing difficulty in passing urine, with more or less sudden complete retention. Occasionally hsematuria and pyuria are present, and fragments of growth may be passed per urethram. On rectal examination the growth is felt projecting backwards into the rectum as a large, firm mass, over which the mucous