836 THE KIDNEY Before operation is undertaken it is necessary to ascertain tlie presence and liealtli of the second kidney by cystoscopy, chromo- cystoscopy, and examination of the urine drawn from the ureter of the second kidney by the ureteral catheter. Prophylactic treatment.—This consists in the treatment of oxaluria, phosphaturia, and lithiasis, and the removal of local con- ditions which may assist the formation of stone, viz. urinary infection and obstruction. Treatment of symptoms. Renal colic.— The patient, is placed in a hot bath and a hypodermic injection of morphine sul- phate (J to I gr.) with atropine sulphate {^^-g gr.) administered. Hot fomentations or poultices are applied over the loin and abdomen. Very rarely it is found necessary to keep the patient lightly under the influence of chloroform for an hour or more. Renal hcematuria.—This is occasionally severe after a fall or blow. The patient should rest in bed with an ice-bag over the kidney. A hypodermic injection of morphia should be given, and 10 to 15 gr. of calcium lactate administered by mouth every four hours. For persistent and severe lieematuria, operation is necessary. Calculous anuria. {See later.) Operative treatment.—When the diagnosis is made the stone should, unless in some exceptional cases, be removed without delay. Cases of extensive bilateral calculous disease with progressive renal failure or with widespread sepsis, and cases in which small calculi are frequently passed and the X-rays do not show a large single shadow or a collection of small shadows in the kidney, are unsuitable for operation. 1. Nephrolithotomy.—The kidney is exposed by a lumbar in- cision, and the stone removed by incision through the convex border. The pelvis and ureter are also examined. The nephrotomy wound is closed with catgut in rounded needles. When there is sepsis and dilatation of the kidney a medium-sized drain should be placed in the kidney wound. The dangers of nephro- lithotomy are hfemorrhage and septic infection. Postoperative haemor- rhage is usually due to sepsis or to tearing out of ligatures. When slight it may be controlled by morphia and calcium lactate ; but if copious and persistent, exposure and packing of the Iddney may be necessary, and sometimes nephrectomy is required. Results.—In aseptic kidneys, when dilatation is not present, the mortality is 2'2 per cent (Watson). In infected cases the death-rate is as high as 20'3 per cent. (Schmieden). In infected cases a fistula may persist, and this may also result from calculi having been left in the kidney, or from ureteral or pelvic obstruction. Fistulse occur