735 HEPATIC ABSCESS able. There may be dull jjain over the liver region, or sometimes •over the acromion, a tendency to stoop to the right, and perhaj^s coughing on deep inspiration. The temperature may be continuously •elevated or regularly variable, simulating malaria ; or it may be very little elevated, and in some chronic cases may be normal or subnormal. Sweating is usually profuse, the skin yellowish and " earthy," and wasting marked. Physical signs.—The liver is enlarged, usually upwards, pro- ducing dullness almost as high as the scapular angle. The whole hepatic region is commonly bulged and, later, tender on deep pressure. Diagnosis.—From malaria diagnosis is made by blood examina- tion and by the effect of quinine. The upward enlargement of the liver is unlike that seen in suppurating gall-bladder and in cancer, but it may be very difficult to distinguish the condition from sup- purating hydatid, gumma, or subdiaphragmatic abscess. The fluor- escent screen may give valuable help, as also may an examination of the fasces for amoebge. The diagnosis is rendered certain by the use of the exploring needle. It is necessary to emphasize the ease with which even a large abscess may be missed unless a thorough explor- ation of the liver be made. A constant vacuum should be kept in the syringe attached to the needle, which may with safety be 3f in. long. The finding of the abscess should be immediately followed by operation, the needle being left in situ as a guide. Amcebse may be found in the fluid, but prolonged search is often necessary, though they are usually numerous in tlie discharge from the abscess on the days following the operation. Prognosis.—AVitliout operation the prognosis is very bad, and even surgical treatment has a mortality of about 20 per cent. Treatment.—In the few cases in which the abscess is actually invading the skin a simple incision, followed by drainage through a very large tube, will effect cure. Many successful results have been reported from cannula drainage carried out immediately after the presence and site of the abscess have been determined by explor- atory puncture, but for surgeons who have no special experience of this class of cases the open operation is undoubtedly the best. An abscess in the hepatic dome is best approached by excision of part of the 9th or 10th rib, just behind the mid-axillary line. It may be necessary to approximate the costal to the diaphragmatic pleura, either by stitching or by packing, and to incise the diaphragm. In very many cases the pleura and peritoneum along the operative track are found to be already adherent. When the principal enlargement is downwards the abdomen should be opened by a vertical incision over the prominent part through -the right rectus muscle. If the adhesions are not sufficient, the