TUBERCULOUS EPIDIDYMO-ORCHITIS 935 disposing cause being a congenital abnormality of the attachments of the testis (see p. 930). Some cases of epididymo-orcliitis may be due to thrombosis of the veins of the pampiniform plexus. I have a specimen of this condition. The onset was acute, with symptoms of acute epididymo-orchitis, and after this had subsided a hard lump was left in the scrotum just above the body of the testis. The testis was excised under the impression that the lump was a malignant tumour, but after removal the con- dition of thrombosed veins of the pamj)iniform plexus was obvious. Tuberculous Epididymo-Orchitis Tuberculous epididymo - orchitis is usually associated with tuber- culosis in other parts of the genito- urinary tract, especially the vesiculse seminales and the prostate. The disease may, however, be most ad- vanced in the testis, and it is prob- able that in some cases the tuber- culosis is localized in this organ, the organisms reaching the affected part by the blood-stream. The epi- didymis is usually attacked before the body of the testis (Fig. 564), perhaps for months before the body is affected. Infection of the epi- didymis can occur in one of two ways—either the organism has in- fected the vesiculae, prostate, or urethra, and reaches the testis by spreading along the lymphatics of the vas deferens ; or it reaches the testis by the blood-stream. Both these methods may occur, but probably the infection is most commonly conveyed along the vas from the vesiculse, which can usually be shown to contain tubercle bacilli in cases of tuberculous epididymitis. The disease occurs at all ages, but is most common in young adults between the ages of 20 and 30 years, and it has the usual etiology of tuberculosis. Yarieties.—Clinically it is possible to distinguish two forms, an acute and a chronic. The acute variety has a sudden onset, with severe pain and swelling of the epididymis, the symptoms and physical signs closely resembling those of acute epididymo-orcliitis of gonorrhoeal origin. From this it can be diagnosed by the absence Fig. 564.—Early tuberculosis of the epididymis.