48 THE BREAST discharge or tumour may be present for ten or more years before advice is sought. Suppuration of a duct papilloma, with protrusion of the growths through an orifice formed by the bursting of the abscess, has been recorded. In all stages the tumour or tumours are freely movable in the breast, under the skin and upon the fascia. The axillary glands, though from irritation they may become easily palpable, are neither hard nor definitely enlarged. The nipple is not retracted nor is the breast shrunken. But it is evident that the physical signs of duct papilloma will vary very greatly with the number of lobes affected, with the size of the papil- lomas, with their degree of secretory power, and with the presence or ab- sence of obstruction of the ducts. Early stage, tu- mour impalpable.— Intermittent blood- stained or serous dis- charge is present. One small segment of the breast, corresponding to the particular orifice upon the nipple from which the discharge issues, is vaguely indurated and granular, while the rest of the breast is soft and normal. Careful observa- tion shows that the dis- charge comes exclusively from the particular orifice upon the nipple which corresponds to the affected lobe, and from none of the other orifices. Pressure upon the affected lobe increases the discharge, while pressure upon the non-indurated parts of the breast is found to have no effect. The papilloma itself is too small to be palpable. Later stage, tumour palpable.—The papilloma has now become palpable as a small firm tumour situated beneath or near the nipple. In some cases the papillomas may attain a considerable size and may form a solid tumour, perhaps an inch in diameter. But the Fig. 268.—Typical duct papilloma. Its nar- row base of attachment to the duct • wall is seen upon the right of the figure. It presents a delicate branching frame- work of fibrous tissue, covered with a single layer of columnar epithelium. Note the absence of any sign of epithe- lial infiltration at the base of the papilla. X 10.