CLEFT PALATE: THE LATE OPERATION 159 the first operation has completely healed. Flaps A B c D and A E f g (Fig. 330), composed of mucous membrane and submucous tissue only, are raised, displaced inwards, and sutured to each other along their inner margins. A row of sutures is also placed between the flap on each side and the subjacent edge of the cleft, indicated by the dotted line in Fig. 331. Although a considerable area of raw surface is exposed after any of the foregoing operations, it is surprising how rapidly it becomes covered by mucous membrane and how slight is the scarring. Slough- ing of the flaps seldom occurs, and union becomes quite firm in about five days. The late operation sliould be performed at about the third year. In several instances, where the cleft has been narrow, I have obtained good results in cases ranging between fifteen months and two years of age, but in the majority it is seldom wise to attempt the operation before the child is at least two and a lialf years old. Advantages :— 1. The cleft narrows as age advances. 2. The tissues are thicker and less friable tlian in the young infant. 3. There is less danger of postoperative pneumonia. 4. The co-operation of the cliild may be invoked during the healing process, so that it refrains from crying or talking, and from pressing its tongue against the palate. 5. If the operation is successful the appearance of the palate and the mobility of the soft palate are unsurpassable. Disadvantages :— 1. Coincidently with the appearance of the teeth, the bacteria and the putrefactive organisms that normally inhabit the mouth increase in number and variety. 2. In consequence, the danger of sloughing is very great. 3. The amount of tissue available for union depends upon the thickness of the flap alone. 4. If there is the least tension the coaptation sutures commence to tear out very shortly after tlie operation. 5. Owing to these drawbacks the percentage of failures is greater than the percentage of successes. The operation (Langenbeck's).—The uvula being seized with tootlied forceps, both edges of the cleft are carefully and thoroughly pared. Two lateral incisions (Fig. 332) are then made midway between the alveolus and the margins of the cleft; they sliould commence in front of its anterior limit, and extend backwards as far as is neces- sary to relieve tension when the two lialves of the soft palate are ap- proximated. The mucous membrane of the hard palate, between the