THE PERITONEUM 576 3. Chronic Pneumococcal Peritonitis Like the gonococcus, the pneumococcus may produce either an acute and diffuse, or a localized and chronic peritonitis. The chronic form closely resembles tuberculous peritonitis, both in its clinical course and in its local effects upon the peritoneum, and the two diseases can scarcely be distinguished except by a bacteriological examination. The diagnosis may have to rest upon the discovery of some recognizable pneumococcal or tuberculous lesion elsewhere. D. TUBERCULOUS PERITONITIS The forms in which peritoneal tuberculosis occurs are— 1. The miliary form, in which the peritoneum is affected merely as part of a general miliary tuberculosis. This form is of no surgical interest. 2. A form in which the peritoneal affection is either primary or— being secondary, as is more common—constitutes the predominant feature of the case. The infection reaches the peritoneum either through the blood- stream from some focus at a distance, such as the lung; or more directly from a neighbouring focus, such as intestinal ulceration, a tuberculous mesenteric gland, or a tuberculous Fallopian tube. Clinically the disease appears in two chief varieties, which, how- ever, merge into one another, namely, the ascitic and the adhesive. In the former the exudation is the chief clinical feature, the peritoneum being studded with tuberculous nodules of varying sizes ; in the latter the intestines and omentum are matted together in an inextricable mass, in the midst of which are collections of broken-down caseous material of various sizes. Such collections are liable to become second- arily infected with pyogenetic organisms from the intestine, and to form acute or subacute intraperitoneal abscesses. With one or more of these abscesses the intestine may communicate by fistulous tracks, and such abscesses becoming adherent to and perforating the abdo- minal wall, or being opened surgically, may produce intractable faecal fistulae. The umbilicus is a common site for such a fistula to arise spontaneously. Symptoms.—Tuberculous peritonitis is cliiefly a disease of child- hood and young adult life, though it is sometimes met with in older patients. It runs a slow course, and ip characterized principally by progressive emaciation which may be accompanied by irregular slight fever. Attacks of pain and vomiting occur at intervals, but, unless proceeding from a definite intestinal obstruction, they are not severe. In some cases diarrhoea is a marked feature. Secondary infection of intraperitoneal abscesses may cause more acute symptoms and may necessitate incision. Examination of the abdomen reveals, in the ascitic variety, the