TUMOURS OF SUPRARENAL GLAND 827 in infancy and childhood. Females are more frequently affected than males, and the left side more often than the right. Hypernejihronia may be benign or malignant, and has the histological characters of the cortex of the suprarenal gland. Tliere is a framework of capillary blood-vessels upon which large, polygonal, frequently vacuolated cells are regularly arranged. In the meshes of the vascular network the cells become arranged in alveolar form or in long columns. The vacuoles in the cells frequently contaiir fat, and pigment granules may be found in the protoplasm. The tumours are single or multiple. They are rounded, possess a fibrous capsule and a charac- teristic yellow colour, and frequently show hfemorrhages. In the benign liypernephroma the cells are smaller, more uniform in size, and regular in arrangement. Transition between simple and malignant forms is seen in the same tumour. In malignant growths metastases take place by the blood- stream, and deposits are found in the lungs, bones, and liver. Symptoms.—Hsematuria is very rare, and is due to passive congestion of tlie kidney from invasion of the renal vein. Progressive emaciation with profound anajmia is the most characteristic feature ; anorexia, vomiting, constipation, and sometimes cedema are observed. Pigmentary changes very rarely develop. In children there may be arrest of mental development. There may be unilateral hypertrophy, precocious puberty, and excessive genital development. At first hidden under the ribs, the tumour is later detected in the hypochondriac region behind the bowel. The kidney may sometimes be recognized below it. Pain is frequent and is sometimes referred to distant parts. The growth is often only discovered post mortem. Diagnosis.—The majority of cases are diagnosed as renal gi'owths. The characteristic features are the absence of changes in the urine, early and extreme emaciation, pigmentary and develof)mental changes, the level of the tumour at the 7th or 8th costal cartilages, the lower border of the suprarenal growth being broad and almost horizontal. Pyelography may aid in distinguishing the origin of the growth. Prognosis and treatment.—The average duration of life after symptoms appear is from six to ten months (Ramsay). Early removal of the growth with the kidney is the only radical method. There is danger of severe hfemorrhage and of opening the pleural cavity during separation of adhesions. Rapid recurrence after removal is the rule. TUBERCULOSIS OF THE KIDNEY AND URETER Tuberculosis of the urinary organs may exist alone, or may be secondary to tuberculosis of the genital system or to tuberculosis of some other organ such as the lung. The combination of genital and urinary tuberculosis is very frequent in the male, rare in the female. Tuberculosis of the kidney is said to be primary or secondary. The term " primary " is used in the narrow sense that the kidney is the primary focus in the urinary system. Renal tuberculosis occurs—(1) as a part of acute miliary tuber- culosis, both kidneys being strewn with miliary tubercles ; (2) as a tuberculous infiltration of the kidney. Miliary tuberculosis is met with, especially in early childhood, as an insignificant part of a general tuberculous infection. It has no surgical interest.