THE OVARY 1078 FIBEOMA Fibrous tumours, many of them of large size, are occasionally met with in the ovary. They arise as {a) a diffuse fibrous overgrowth of the whole of the ovarian stroma, (6) a local encapsuled mass, or (c) a pedun- culated outgrowth from the surface of the ovary. They are most frequently met with between the ages of 30 and 50. In structure they are pure fibromas, and show much less tendency to degeneration than is the case with myomas. They take about two years to attain the size of a cricket-ball. They produce symptoms of pressure like a pedunculated subserous myoma. In most recorded cases free fluid has been present in the abdominal cavity, a circumstance that caused them to be regarded as sarcomas in the past. It is impossible to distinguish absolutely a fibroma from a subserous myoma with a long pedicle, before the abdomen is opened. The absence of menorrhagia and the detection of signs of free peritoneal fluid would suggest a fibroma. The tumour must be removed, the steps of the operation being those already described under Ovarian Cysts (p. 1077). ADENOMA Solid adenomas in the ovary are rare. Their nature can only be ascertained by microscopical examination, when a series of regular glandular spaces lying in a fibro-cellular stroma is revealed. Like fibromas, adenomas cause some ascites and produce pressure symptoms. They must be removed as soon as possible, and if doubt as to the innocent nature of the growth exists the uterus should be removed also. PAPILLOMA A rare villous type of papilloma originating in the germinal epithe- lium, and producing secondary peritoneal growths and ascites, is known. Removal of the primary growth is followed in some cases by spontaneous disappearance of the secondary growths in the peri- toneum. SARCOMA Many different types of primary sarcoma occur in the ovary, the round-celled variety being the commonest. All ages are attacked, and cases have been recorded even in infancy. In children and young persons the growth is often bilateral, but in older patients only one side is usually affected. Secondary sarcoma of the ovary is uncommon, except in the melanotic variety, in which large bilateral tumours may be found post mortem. Ascites is early noticed, the tumour is fixed and grows rapidly, and the patient wastes. The diagnsois of malignancy is usually not