THE KIDNEY 8o6 Nephrectomy may become necessary in the hsemorrhagic type of pyelonephritis. (3) Chronic pyelonephritis.—Prophylaxis consists in all mea- sures directed against chronic obstruction and sepsis in the lower urinary organs. When chronic pyelonephritis has become established, operative interference with bladder or urethra must be undertaken with the utmost caution. Suprapubic drainage should precede prostatectomy by a week or more, and external urethrotomy should be preferred to dilatation or internal urethrotomy for stricture. Urinary antiseptics and diuretics should be freely administered. If the second kidney is proved to be healthy by examination of its urine, nephrectomy may be performed. Circumstances, however, rarely render this possible. In chronic hematogenous pyelonephritis operation may be necessary for recurrent exacerbations, persistent cystitis, secondary calculus, or, rarely, anuria. Vaccine treatment, at any rate in cases complicated by stone, growth, or obstruction, has not given satisfactory results. PYELITIS The intimate relation between the kidney and the renal pelvis precludes absolute limitatien of severe inflammation to one or other, but there are cases of mild subacute or chronic inflammation where the pelvis is affected and the kidney but slightly involved. Etiology.—Mid adult life is most frequently affected. The infection may be haematogenous, or may ascend from the lower urinary organs. A calculus may be present in the renal pelvis. Pathology.—The mucous membrane is hyperaemic, and in severe forms is thickened, velvety, and may show petecliise and super- ficial ulceration. In old-standing pyelitis the wall is thick and leathery, the mucous membrane is opaque and may show small colloid-filled cysts (pyelitis cystica) or tiny sago-grain lymph-follicles (pyelitis granulosa). The condition may be unilateral or bilateral. Symptoms.—These are usually insignificant in non-calculous pyelitis. The temperature may rise to 100° F. at night, and there is slight constant renal aching with occasionally some tenderness on pressure. The kidney is not enlarged. Polyuria is present, most markedly at night. The urine is pale, opalescent, acid, of low specific gravity (1008), and usually odourless, but occasionally it has a fishy smell. On standing, it deposits a flat creamy layer of pus which moves heavily on tilting the glass. Micro- scopically, bacteria and tailed and overlapping epithelial cells are seen, but no tube casts.