CARCINOMA OF THE PROSTATE 919 1 See also Vol. I., p. 556. membrane does not move freely. Involvement of the pelvic glands is late, but metastasis in the Ivmgs and other organs is common, the disease being invariably fatal. Treatment.—This is similar to the palliative treatment of car- cinoma of the prostate (p. 923). Attempts at removal can be made, but are usually followed by rapid local recurrence. Carcinoma 1 (Fig. 560) Etiology.—In the prostate, as in other parts of the body, the cause of carcinoma is unknown. It has been stated that malignant disease not infrequently commences as chronic enlargement, but proof of this is wanting, and it is more likely that the cases were carcinomatous from the first. Chronic gonorrhceal inflammation has also been assigned as a cause, but on insufficient evidence. Pathologically, the disease can be divided into soft (medullary) and hard (scirrhus) types, according to the amount of fibrous tissue in the growth ; but of more importance is the clinical division into— (a) Growths which for a long time resemble innocent enlarge- ments, and are frequently removed under that idea, the diagnosis being established by the microscope and the after-history. (b) Growths which, having rapidly infiltrated the surrounding tissue, fungate into the bladder and rectum and involve the pelvic glands early, so that the pelvis soon becomes filled with a carcinomatous mass. These cases are the diffuse prostato-pelvic carcinomas of Guyon. (c) A rare form of growth which is followed by general carcino- matous invasion of bone, the primary growth in the pros- tate being small and often difiicult to discover. The secondary growths occur in the bone marrow, especially of the vertebrae, of the lower end of the femur and of the humerus, and gradually destroy the bone, leading, in some cases, to multiple spontaneous fractures. Secondary growths in internal organs are rare, but carcinoma of the prostate in man is sometimes associated with general carcinomatosis. Secondary carcinoma of the prostate is rare, and it is unusual for bladder growths to invade the prostate, although invasion of the bladder by prostatic carcinoma is the rule. Symptoms.—In an early stage of carcinoma of the prostate the symptoms are similar to those of chronic enlargement, viz. difiiculty and frequency of micturition, loss of projection of the stream, reten- tion of urine, and finally the incontinence of overflow ; but there are