577 TUBERCULOUS PERITONITIS physical signs of free fluid within the abdomen. The distension may become very marked, so that the belly wall appears tense and shiny, with dilated veins upon its surface and a prominent umbilicus ; respira- tory and cardiac embarrassment may thus be caused. The fluid may find its way into a patent funicular process, and, unless there is some- thing to call attention to the abdomen, such a case may easily be mistaken for one of simple congenital hydrocele. In the adhesive variety it is often possible to feel nodules or irregu- lar masses of various sizes scattered throughout the abdomen. Diagnosis.—A characteristic case presents little difficulty, though it may be closely mimicked by the chronic form of pneumococcal peritonitis. On the other hand, tuberculous peritonitis may assume forms in which the diagnosis is a matter of the greatest difficulty and may have to be decided by exploratory laparotomy. Thus, malignant disease of the feritoneum, especially when accompanied by the presence of palpable masses and of ascites, may be quite indistinguishable from tuberculous peritonitis except by surgical exploration. An encysted collection of fluid in tuberculous peritonitis may readily be mistaken for an ovarian cyst, or for a local intraperitoneal abscess due to some other cause. In a case with acute onset, accompanied by fever and diarrhoea, the diagnosis from enteric fever may be most difficult. The greater irregularity of the fever, especially when observed over a period of several weeks, together with the absence of rash, of splenic enlarge- ment, and of bronchitis, and the negative Widal reaction, would serve to distinguish tuberculous peritonitis. Some assistance may be gained from Calmette's or von Pirquet's tuberculin test. Treatment.—Treatment by medical means, hygienic and dietetic, such as is suitable for tuberculosis in general, may be followed by good results. Tuberculin may also be tried in suitable cases. The tapping of a large ascitic collection may afford relief, but does not give such good results as laparotomy, and is by no means free from the risk of puncturing adherent intestine. Treatment by surgical means is often indicated, and is frequently followed by results sufficiently good to be justly denominated cures. It is chiefly in the ascitic form that operation holds out such favour- able prospects. The operation is of the simplest character, and con- sists in making a small incision, some two or three inches long, through one or other rectus abdominis muscle in the direction of its fibres. The fluid is allowed to escape, and the little wound is closed and dressed with collodion. No advantage appears to attach to the flushing or moppmg-out of the peritoneal cavity, still less to the introduction of antiseptics. Occasionally a definite tuberculous focus of origin can be removed at the same time, such as a Fallopian tube or a Ivmphatic 2/