MAMMARY GANGER 67 appear here and there in the affected area, and the skin, previously- leathery, now becomes hard and brawny, purplish or red in colour, and perhaps covered by rough desquamating crusts. Cancerous pachydermia first appears over the primary growth and spreads from it in all directions, involving an increasing and roughly circular area which ultimately includes the whole of the front of the chest, and encroaches on the abdomen, neck, and back. It is usually asso- ciated witli " brawny arm," and in its latest stages both arms may be swollen (Fig. 276 and Plate 81). In an extreme instance of cancerous pachydermia recorded by Velpeau, the skin was affected from the umbilicus to the larynx, and from the loins to the occiput. The thickened skin was sown with scirrhous ulcers and closely-set cancerous bosses. The arms were tripled in bulk, and as hard as marble. The respiration resembled that of a person whose chest is gripped in a vice, and the arms and head were immovable, while pain in the arms was constant and terrible, so that the sutEerer longed for death. In such cases, asphyxia may be the actual cause of death. The condition I have just described was regarded until recently as due to cancerous invasion of the skin, and this view is correct as regards the later stages. But if the thickened skin be examined in the early stage of leathery hypertrophy no cancer cells can be found in it, and I have shown that the condition is one of lymphatic oedema, the changes being identical with those met with in the skin of elephantiasis. The altered skin of the breast may some- times attain a thickness of 6 mm. before any cancer cells can be detected in it. The factor which causes lymphatic obstruction is cancerous per- meation and subsequent fibrotic obliteration of the underlying fascial lymphatic plexus and its tributaries. The name cancerous ■pachy- dermia is thus the most appropriate which can be found. The name cancer en cuirasse should be reserved for the later stage of cancerous pachydermia in which the skin shows nodular or diffuse cancerous infiltration. The "brawny arm" of breast cancer In a late stage of breast cancer the corresponding arm often becomes swollen and cedematous. At first the oedema pits on pressure, but it soon becomes solid and brawny. The arm is the seat of an unbearable heavy dragging pain, and may attain a size twice or three times its normal volume. The skin is tense and shiny. Muscular power is gradually lost, until complete paralysis results. This condition has been ascribed to venous obstruction, a view shown to be incorrect by the absence of oedema after resection of the axillary veins. It has been said to be due to obstruction of the lymphatic trunks by growth outside or witliin them. If tliis were the case it should invariably occur in an early