DUODENAL ULCER: SYMPTOMS 363 Thus we may conveniently make four groups :— 1. Those with typical symptoms. 2. Those with symptoms indistinguishable from gastric ulcer. 3. Those in which diagnosis is impossible. 4. Those presenting no symptoms till perforation. The onset of the disease is usually insidious ; at first there is only a sense of uneasiness, or a feeling of distension. Pain is rarely absent, and is the most important symptom ; it appears about two hours after food, and lasts until the next meal, by which it is relieved—hence the name " hunger-pain," applied to it by Moynihan. A characteristic feature of the pain is that in many cases it wakens the patient about 1 or 2 a.m. It is epigastric and may pass round to the right side, is often relieved by pressure, and may be accompanied by eructation of gas or regurgitation of a little bitter fluid, followed by relief. Occasion- ally it is spasmodic, doubling the patient up and resembhng biliary colic. It is sometimes noted that the period of relief from the pain is greater after the ingestion of solid than of liquid food. The appetite often remains good ; indeed, it may be better during the attack than at other times. An important feature is the complete remission of symptoms, an attack lasting a few weeks being followed by a period of perfect health which may last for months. An attack is particularly prone to come on in the winter, and may result from cold, worry, or overwork. Spontaneous vomiting is very unusual maless stenosis occurs ; but self-induced vomiting, rare in gastric ulcer, is noted in many cases of duodenal ulcer. During the attack, rigidity of the upper segment of the right rectus muscle and deep tenderness may be present, but in many cases abdominal examination is negative. Symptoms such as those described above are present in most cases in which an ulcer is situated in the first part of the duodenum. It must be remembered, however, that the presence of post- prandial or nocturnal pain, relieved by a warm drink or by bicar- bonate of soda, does not justify a certain diagnosis of duodenal ulcer ; occasionally, when the ulcer is situated on the lesser curvature of the stomach, pain is similarly relieved, but the symptoms are never perfectly typical. It is in this type of case that a duodenal ulcer may be diagnosed and a gastric one found ; the converse rarely or never. Disease of the gall-bladder or appendix may cause hunger- pain. It may, however, be laid dovna. that recurrent attacks of hunger-pain are always due to a definite organic lesion, one that can be dealt with surgically. Occasionally the ulcer is situated in the second part of the duodenum. In these cases the symptoms are often atypical, and jaundice may