SOLITARY CYSTS 825 In the adult, many cases present no symptoms at all. Frequently, however, after a long latent period, a renal tumour appears with some- what indeterminate symptoms, which ultimately progress to those of renal failure. In the second or tumour stage a large swelling presenting the renal characteristics appears on one side, the second kidney not yet being enlarged on palpation. Tenderness is rare ; pain is late, and consists of a dull aching in the loin, with an occasional colic due to the passage of clots. There may be albuminuria and pronounced pol}T.iria, interrupted by periods of oliguria. Hiematuria, when present, is slight and intermittent. In the last stage there is bilateral tumour, the urine becomes scanty and anuria supervenes. Treatment.—From the fact that the disease is practically always bilateral, surgical intervention is ill advised. Nephrotomy with the evacuation of large cysts has been performed for pain and pyuria. Nephrectomy is useless owing to the bilateral distribution. Solitary Cysts Large cysts of the kidney, sometimes wrongly termed " serous" cysts, are very rare. (Fig. 542.) They are usually unilateral. Generally single, and of the size of an orange or larger, the cyst has a thin, transparent tibrous wall incompletely lined with flattened or cubical epithelium, and is filled with a clear amber fluid containing albumin, chlorides, phosphates, and traces of urea, and occasionally blood. The interior frequently shows the remains of septa. Very rarely the cysts communicate with the pelvis. They are generally held to be retention cysts from blocking of tubules. Symptoms.—Only the largest cysts cause symptoms. Dull acliing pain, or more rarely sudden severe lumbar pain and vesical tenesmus, has been noted. A large cyst may produce pressure on the great veins and on the bn\\el. The urine is normal. The tumour has the characteristics of a renal tumour, and is most likely to be confused with hydronephrosis or new growth. The fixed volume, even after ureteral catheterization, and the normal outline of the renal pelvis on injection of collargol (pyelography), show that there is no dilatation of the pelvis. A cyst of large size may be mistaken for an ovarian cyst. A correct diagnosis is made in only 8 per cent, of cases. Treatment.—The cyst may be brought up to the surface and opened, and the cyst wall stitched to the skin. This is followed by fistula in half the cases. Resection of the pouch should be carried out whenever possible. The salient part of the cyst wall is cut away, and the j)ortion of cyst wall within the kidney cauterized. Partial nephrectomy may be performed if the cyst is at one pole. Total nephrectomy is the usual treatment for very large cysts. Hydatid Cysts The kidney is only affected in -065 per cent, of cases of hj'datid disease (Thomas). Pathology.—The embryo is arrested in the capillary plexus of the convoluted tubules, usually at one pole. The growth is slow, but the cyst