640 HERNIA known as " internal hernias," since they are confined to the abdominal cavity ; in these latter strangulation is the rule, and they are rarely seen except in this condition. The effects of strangulation vary according to the age and condition of the patient, the portion of the bowel involved, and the tightness of the constriction. Thus, although if unrelieved, either spontaneously or by operation, the inevitable result is death, this result is much more rapid when the patient is old and feeble or excessively plethoric, and the constriction tight and high up in the intestinal canal. In such cases the fatal result may ensue in the course of three or four days, whereas in less unfavourable cases seven to ten days may elapse. The cause of death is commonly exhaustion, peritonitis, or septic pneumonia. Cardinal symptoms of strangulation.—These are essen- tially those of intestinal obstruction, viz. (1) vomiting; (2) absolute constipation both as to flatus and faeces ; (3) gradual distension of the abdomen; and (4) the appearance of an irreducible swelling in the neighbourhood of one or other of the hernial sites. 1. Vomiting.-—At first this may be mere effortless regurgitation of the gastric contents, preceded by a sense of overfullness of the stomach, possibly in spite of the fact that no food has been taken. In the course of a few hours the vomiting becomes worse and is accompanied by active retching, bitter greenish-yellow bile-stained fluid being ejected in mouthfuls. As time goes on, the vomiting progresses, rmdiminished by drugs, and large quantities of foul-smelling brown liquid are brought up, having a distinctly fseculent odour. Ultimately, if the condition is unrelieved and the patient lives sufficiently long, the actual contents of the large bowel may be vomited ; this, however, is rare. 2. Constipation.—This may not at first be complete, some of the contents of the rectum below the constriction being voided ; but it very soon becomes absolute, neither faeces nor flatus passing the anus. An occasional exception to this is met with in the case of Eichter's hernia (p. 612), especially when low down in the ileum, slight action of the bowels and little vomiting being present throughout. The diagnosis is thus rendered very difficult. 3. Distension of the abdomen,—When increasing rapidly, and especially when supervening on rigidity of the parietes, this is a sign of great importance. It may be due to gas within the bowel or free in the peritoneal cavity. The diagnosis is not always easy. Stress is laid by some writers on the absence of liver dullness, but the sign is very deceptive, the bowel at times being able to insinuate itself between the liver and the abdominal wall, thus giving rise to the belief that there is free gas in the peritoneal cavity. However, taken in conjunc- tion with other signs of abdominal disaster, such as sweating, collapse, rapid pulse, and marked abdominal facies, it is of value. The rapidity