6i6 HERNIA or clumsy force, if tlie liernia is difficult of reduction, can only result in pain to the patient; in bruising and inflammation of the sac and its contents, thus producing early irreducibility ; and possibly even in rupture of the sac, " reduction en masse," and strangulation. On no account should force replace patience and skill. At times a hernia may be irreducible simply from the fact that any attempt at reduction is resisted by the patient, owing to griping pains, the abdominal muscles being involuntarily contracted at each attempt; this difficulty may be overcome by making the patient keep the mouth wide open and instructing him to breathe deeply and not to hold his breath. This failing, a general anaesthetic or, preferably, spinal analgesia may be employed, the muscular relaxation provided by this latter method being very marked. The direction of pressure during reduction will vary with the position of the sac. In umbilical hernia it should be directly back- wards, but these hernias are so commonly irreducible at an earl}^ date that, when they do not reduce spontaneously, little success is to be expected from manipulations. The direction in inguinal hernia should be upwards and outwards towards the iliac spine. In femoral hernia it will depend much on the direction of the fundus of the sac. This reduction is always more difficult to effect owing to the tendency of the sac to turn upwards to Poupart's ligament, the narrowness of the canal, and the sharp edges of the saphenous opening and Gimbernat's hgament, besides wliich the sac cannot be lifted in the hand as in the case of inguinal hernia. In most cases the pressure must be in a down- ward and inward direction. The dangers of using undue force are dealt with under " Reduction en masse " (p. 645). Treatment by truss.—The disadvantages of trusses are as follows :— 1. They do not cure any hernia (a very small proportion in quite young infants possibly excepted). 2. They are inconvenient and often uncomfortable. 3. They are costly for poor patients, who, as a rule, soon wear them out. 4. They are frequently badly fitted or not fitted at all. 5. In a few years the hernia, growing larger, overcomes the truss. 6. Their pressure tends to thin out and mat together the under- lying tissues, rendering an)^ future operation much more difficult and the chances of cure much more remote. 7. In young children a constant change of truss is necessary, to ensure accuracy of fit at different ages. 8. Although useless and dangerous in irreducible hernias, they are often applied to these by ignorant patients.