MAMMARY CARCINOMA: ETIOLOGY 51 a focus of chronic mastitis much too small to be clinically appre- ciable may yet form an adequate nidus for a carcinoma. The clinical statistics, then, amount only to this—that there is evidence of past chronic mastitis in a large minority of cases of breast cancer. The pathological evidence, however, in favour of chronic mastitis as a cause is very strong. Beadles, from the examination of the non-carcinomatous portions of 100 cancerous breasts at the Brompton Cancer Hospital, found without exception in each of these breasts such abnormal changes as undue proliferation of the acini and of the stroma, and cysts were of common occurrence. It must, however, be remarked that Lenthal Cheatle has found similar changes post mortem in apparently healthy breasts. F. T. Paul, as the result of prolonged observations, recorded in 1901 his belief that microscopical evidence of mastitis is present in nearly every breast affected with carcinoma. Later, Victor Bonney found traces of chronic mastitis in all the mammse removed for early carcinoma wlaich he had the opportunity of examining. Thus, pathological investigation shows chronic mastitis to be an almost universal precursor of carcinoma. Fibro-adenoma and carcinoma—General opinion favours the view that there is no connexion between fibro-adenoma and car- cinoma. At first sight nothing could appear more innocent than a fibro-adenoma of the breast, persisting possibly for years without notable increase in size, and securely walled off from the normal tissues by its strong fibrous capsule. Yet, in my opinion, there can be no reasonable doubt that in a small proportion of cases malig- nant tumours may arise in or in connexion with these innocent neo- plasms. Fibro-adenomas are often enveloped in an area of breast tissue exhibiting chronic mastitis which certainly may lead to cancer. It seems, then, probable that the irritative effect of a fibro-adenoma may be an important factor in inducing cancer in the surrounding breast tissue. This view is confirmed by the fact that the seat of election for breast cancer—the upper and outer quadrant, including the axillary tail—is also the seat of election for fibro-adenoma. Is it possible, apart from the irritative effect of a fibro-adenoma upon the surrounding tissues, that the tumour itself may undergo a carcinomatous degeneration ? On various occasions I have observed in microscopical sections of breast cancer an intimate admixture of carcinomatous and fibro-adenomatous tissues, so that the liistological appearances of these diverse tumours should be seen together on the^ same field of the microscope. Such observations, though suggestive, are not conclusive. There is, however, in the museum of St. Bartho- lomew's Hospital (31.59c) an encapsuled acinous fibro-adenoma con- taining a central opaque area of spheroidal-celled carcinoma which is infiltrating the substance of the surrounding fibro-adenoma. Tliis