948 THE TESTIS OTHER CONDITIONS OF THE TESTIS NEUEALGIA This term is applied to a painful condition of the testis usually occurring in paroxysms. The cases have been classified as follows :—• (a) Cases ivitliout an obvious lesion.—These cases, though rare, exist. The testis is the seat of paroxysms of acute pain, although examination in situ or after removal fails to show any apparent abnor- mality. The pathology is quite unknown, but there may be a history of sexual irregularities or excesses. (h) Cases with a lesion in the body or epididymis.—The most common of these lesions are small nodules of fibrous tissue in the globus minor of the epididymis, the result of a gonorrhceal epididymo-orchitis. The nodule is usually acutely tender, and the pain radiates from it. Other lesions are small cysts of the epididymis, fibrosis of the body, atrophy of the testis, and the results of injury to the testis. In the case of chronic epididymo-orchitis the pain is perhaps due to retention of semen behind the blocked tubules of the epididymis. (c) Lesion in the adnexa of the testis and elsewhere.—The two most common lesions of this variety are varicocele and renal or urethral stone. Pain in the testis in varicocele is not an uncommon symp- tom, although it may be entirely absent; whilst pain radiating to the testis is one of the classical symptoms of renal colic. Other conditions with which intense testicular pain is sometimes associated are hydroceles, small fibrous and cartilaginous tumours in the tunica vaginalis, and pressure on the nerves by a new growth of the spine. Symptoms.—In most cases there is constant tenderness of the testis, exaggerated during the paroxysms of pain, and usually extremely marked in any nodule that may be present either in the testis proper or in the epididymis. The paroxysms are frequently caused by .exercise, slight injury, and changes of temperature. Coitus in some cases relieves the pain, but in others it appears to induce the paroxysms. The pain starts in the testis, and may radiate along the spermatic cord to the lumbar region. It is usually so severe that the patient is incapacitated, and it has sometimes induced self- mutilation. During the paroxysms, which may last from a few minutes to several hours, the testis is frequently retracted owing to spasm of the cremaster muscle. Treatment.—The first step in treatment is to remedy any pre- existing disease in the testis and its adnexa. A varicocele should be ligatured, cysts of the epididymis removed, a hydrocele operated upon, and so forth. The removal of the pathological condition is frequently followed by complete rehef of all symptoms, and no further treatment