8o4 THE KIDNEY but after twenty-four hours this is confined to one organ, Avhich is enlarged. Polyuria has frequently been present beforehand, but now is replaced by partial or complete suppression. The tempera- ture may remain at 102° or over, or may be high and swinging with recurring rigors. Labial herpes is common. The symptoms increase in severity, muttering delirium supervenes, and the patient becomes comatose and dies. Urtemic dyspnoea and Cheyne-Stokes breathing may be present, but convulsions are ex- tremely rare. In less severe cases the secretion of urine becomes re-established, the temperature falls, flatus is passed, and the symp- toms subside. Some cases are characterized by recurrent hsemorrhages. (3) Chronic suppurative pyelonephritis.—Chronic pyelone- phritis may follow acute pyelonephritis, whether hsematogenous or ascending, or may be engrafted on a chronic aseptic pyelonephritis ; when fully developed it gives rise to " urinary septicaemia." The complexion is sallow, the skin dry and harsh, the mouth and throat dry, the tongue dry, and later glazed, red, and cracked. There are dyspepsia, nausea, frontal headache, and constant drowsiness, with persistent loss of weight and appetite. The urine is abundant (80-100 oz. per diem), pale, neutral or faintly acid, of sp. gr. about 1006, and hazy with pus or with flakes. Bacteria are plentiful, but bacteriuria only occasionally occurs. Nocturnal polyuria and vesical irritation are the chief subjects of complaint. In the ascending variety the symptoms of the primary lower disease are also present. Acute exacerbations are probable from time to time, especially after surgical intervention. Prognosis.—(1) In mild cases of hsematogenous pyelonephritis the prognosis is good, but relapses may occur, and in a large per- centage of cases bacteriuria or slight chronic pyelonephritis persists. In acute cases the outlook is grave, and operation is frequently necessary. Fulminating cases frequently terminate fatally. (2) Many patients die during the acute attack of ascending pyelonephritis, and most of those that recover suffer from chronic pyelonephritis. Eemoval of the urinary obstruction will probably arrest the disease, but the kidneys are permanently damaged. (3) Chronic pyelonephritis persists for years, and eventually destroys the kidney. The dangers of secondary stone formation in the kidney and of ascending pyelonephritis in the other kidney are ever present. Treatment. (1) Acute haematogenous pyelonephritis. {a) Medicinal.—Mild and early cases may be suitably treated by con- finement to bed, and the application of cupping or of hot fomentations and turpentine stupes over the loins, combined with the administration