FOREIGN BODIES 269 Perforation of the oesophageal wall causes severe pain, accom- panied by rise of temperature and general malaise. Cervical emphy- sema generally ensues later. When a large vessel is involved, haemor- rhage may be slight at first ; it is recurrent, generally ingravescent, and a final severe bleeding may bring about a fatal issue. Perforation of the aorta by impacted coins and other foreign bodies led to a fatal issue from haemorrhage in five cases recently reported by Turner. Involvement of the air-passages, pleurae, etc., gives rise to charac- teristic signs and symptoms. Diagnosis.—In most cases the diagnosis of the presence of a foreign body impacted in the oesophagus is a matter of no great difficulty. A history of the swallowing of the article in question is often obtainable, but in the case of children this may be entirely absent. Sudden onset of dysphagia in a child without another cause is suggestive of the presence of a foreign body, and routine examina- tion as a rule clears up the diagnosis. In children the first step, whenever possible, is to make an examina- tion by the X-rays. It is not advisable to start the examination by the passage of bougies, as this requires a general anaesthetic, and may do harm by displacing the foreign body downwards. If the X-ray examination reveals a shadow it will, as before stated, generally be situated near the upper border of the sternum. The position and size of the body can by this means, as a rule, be determined with accuracy. Occasionally a coin, if impacted in the upper part of the oesophagus, can be palpated in the neck. In adults it is also advisable to employ the X-rays as the pre- liminary step in the examination. As a general rule, foreign bodies can easily be detected in the oesophagus of an adult by this means. The rays must be caused to pass obliquely through the patient, especially if impaction has occurred low down, to avoid the shadow caused by the vertebrae, heart, and great vessels. Metallic bodies are generally recognized with ease, but small portions of vulcanite tooth-plates with teeth attached may form so faint a shadow that their detection is a matter of great difficulty. In these cases it is a good plan to administer bismuth emulsion, which adheres to the plate. The radiograph plate should be examined in the wet state, immediately after its development. Wlien X-rays are not available, a bougie, preferably a flexible one with a cylindrical metal tip, should be passed down. The j^resence of a foreign body and the site of impaction are then determined. The cesophagoscope is invaluable for the detection and direct examination of foreign bodies in the oesophagus. It is advisable always to examine with this instrument under general ana?sthesia,