247 SALIVARY-GLAND TUMOURS of an abnormal swelling in the mouth, which may interfere with mastication and render articulation imperfect. The etiology of a ranula is much disputed. According to von Hippel. it is a sublingual gland cyst, starting in the smaller ex- cretory ducts, entirely analogous to the salivary-gland cysts already described. Neumann regards it as an epithelial cyst derived from a tubule of one of Bochdalek's glands; while von Recklinghausen inclines to the view that it is a cyst derived from the gland of Blandin and Nuhn, either by simple retention or by degeneration of tlie re- tained products of its secretion. A dermoid cyst in the floor of the mouth may resemble a ranula very closely. A sublingual dermoid is usually adherent to the mandible or to the hyoid bone, and this is the only point on which reliance can be placed in the differential diagnosis. Treatment. — The only really efficient treatment is to dissect out the cyst entirely after incising the overlying mucous membrane. If this is not possible, the next best method is to cut away the whole of the anterior wall and to allow the cavity so formed to cicatrize up slowly. Some authorities advise removing a ranula through a submental incision, especially if the cyst is a big one and projects downwards and forwards towards the mylo-hyoid. But there is little advantage in this. The exposure afforded is no better than that obtained by the intrabuccal method ; and, from an aesthetic point of view, a scar in the mylo-hyoid region should always be avoided if possible. TUMOURS OF THE SALIVARY GLANDS Tumours of the salivary glands may be classified as follows :— A. Tumours of epithelial origin— Innocent: Adenoma. Malignant: Carcinoma (a) Adeno-carcinoma. (b) Scirrlius. B. Tumours of connective-tissue origin—• Innocent: Angioma. Fibroma. Chondroma. Lipoma. Malignant: (I) Pure sarcoma— (a) Round-celled. {b) Spindle-celled. (c) Melanotic (Billroth and Kaufmann). (2) Mixed sarcoma— (rt) Chondro-sarcoma. {b) Fibro-sarcoma. (f) Myxo-sarcoma. ((/) Angio-sarcoma or perithelioma. C. Mixed tumours.