CLINICAL EXAMINATIONS hand, the rigidity accompanying the deep tenderness in peritonitis is permanent and will be felt with the gentlest handling. To recapitulate, pain and hjrperalgesia, both superficial and deep, and muscular rigidity, in disease of the stomach and duodenum un- accompanied by peritoneal irritation, are reflex, due to the heightened excitability of certain segments of the spinal cord receiving abnormal impulses from the afiected viscus. The important points to elicit with regard to the pain are— (1) Its character, position, and spread. (2) Its relation to food; the time at which it appears ; does it waken the patient at night ? (3) Is it relieved by vomiting, or by taking food, drugs, or fluid ? (4) Is it accompanied by or relieved by flatulence ? Vomiting.—Vomiting is nearly always met with during the course of any surgical disease of the stomach or duodenum. But, while rarely absent at some time during the course of gastric disease, it is only present as a late complication in certain diseases of the duodenum. The important points to investigate are—(1) Its frequency. (2) Its relation to food. (3) Does it relieve pain ? (4) Its colour, odour, etc. (5) Does it contain blood ? (See also under Examination of the Vomit, p. 310.) Haemorrhage.—Bleeding more or less severe probably occurs in all diseases accompanied by a breach of surface of the mucous mem- brane. Blood may be vomited (hsematemesis) or passed per rectum (melsena). If a large amount is poured out it may be vomited at once and is easily recognized ; if poured out in small quantity it is altered in colour and becomes coagulated in tiny brownish-red masses resembling cofiee-gromids. Death may result before the appearance of any blood externally, but this is very unusual. While the presence of any large amount of blood is obvious, smaller amounts should not be overlooked, for their importance is great. Appetite.—Information with regard to appetite is important. In some cases of carcinoma of the stomach, loss of appetite or repugnance to the sight of food is the fii'st sign of the disease. In duodenal ulcer the appetite may be good and the patient may say that he eats more during the attack of pain than at any other time ; or, as in some cases of gastric ulcer, the appetite is good, but fear of tlie consequent pain restrains the patient from satisfying it. Jaundice.—This is a rare complication and arises as the result of obstruction to the biliary passages from pressure or involvement iu new growth, adhesions or contraction of an ulcer, or direct spread from the duodenum. It is more often met with in diseases of the duodenum than in diseases of the stomach, where it is usually a late result of carcinoma. It may be an important symptom in the u