THE PROSTATE 914 (g) Effects on the act of micturition.—The increasing obstruc- tion at the orifice of the urethra leads to increasing difficulty of mic- turition, the chief difficulty being experienced in starting the act. With enlargement of the middle lobe, straining to pass urine drives the lobe still farther into the orifice of the urethra, and the patient learns that straining is futile. The absence of effort and the weakening of the bladder wall lead to diminished force of the stream, which is hardly projected beyond the feet. The bladder is not completely emptied by the act, and urine will accumulate (residual urine). Symptoms.—The patient in the early stage of enlargement com- plains of increasing difficulty and also of frequency of micturition. The difficulty is most marked at the commencement of the act, and the patient finds that micturition is most easily performed by waiting without straining. Frequency is often first noticed at night, the patient rising two or three times to empty the bladder; the amount of urine voided at night is increased (nocturnal polyuria). There is loss of projection of the stream, and the patient frequently cannot micturate in the reciimbent position. The difficulty of micturition is increased by cold, alcoholic or venereal excesses, constipation, or by holding the urine longer than is desirable. Increased sexual excite- ment and persistent erections, which may induce acts of impropriety, are common. The difficulty and frequency of micturition may steadily increase until the bladder becomes constantly distended, and incon- tinence with overflow results, but any of the following complications may supervene and alter the clinical picture :— 1. Complete retention of urine. This is due to congestion of the prostatic plexus of veins and the urethral mucous membrane, induced by cold, by venereal excess, or more frequently by prolonged holding of the urine, such as may occur on long railway journeys or at public meetings. This complication may be the first serious intimation to the patient that he has prostatic enlargement. 2. Severe haemorrhage from rupture of a prostatic vein. 3. Cystitis, causing pain on micturition, frequency, and pyuria. 4. Calculus in the bladder, causing pain on micturition and hsematuria. 5. Prostatic abscess—a rare complication. Effects on the general health.—The general health may remain good for years, but with increasing frequency and difficulty there is impairment due to pain and loss of sleep. As the bladder becomes distended and the effects of back pressure on the kidneys are felt, the patient suffers from headaches, thirst, polyuria, and anorexia, and there is loss of flesh and strength. These effects are more marked if sepsis is added to the mechanical effects of the enlarged prostate. _ _