277 CARDIOSPASM stomach by a little pressure. If tliis liappens, tlie diagnosis of spasmodic stricture may be confidently made. More often the bougie will not pass, nor even engage the stricture. Keen points out that the tube can be abnormally moved aliout in the dilated oesophagus. Examination with the cesophagoscope should then be under- taken. In the recorded cases the cardia has been seen constricted, and the mucous membrane heaped up in longitudinal folds so as to give a rosette-like appearance. The surface of the mucosa may be pale, or intensely red, or even ulcerated. The oesophageal dilatation can be demonstrated by the X-rays on the fluorescent screen after the administration of bismuth in food. A fusiform shadow is seen in a typical case ; by this means the presence of a diverticulum may be excluded. Examination by auscultation shows retardation or absence of the second swallowing sound. Among other methods of examination may be mentioned the two- tube test of Rumpel, and the passage of a rubber-coated sound con- nected to a eudiometer as suggested by Strauss; The prognosis is unfavourable. Treatment is difficult, and may only relieve temporarily. The indications are to attempt to overcome the spasm by means of medicines and the passage of sounds. If emaciation be present, hollow sounds for feeding purposes should be passed if possible. The cesophagoscope may assist the passage of sounds. Rectal feeding is sometimes necessary in the acute attacks, whilst for extreme cases gastrostomy may become necessary. If dilatation has occurred, the passage of bougies gives only temporary relief (Sippey). Rolleston refers to cases successfully treated by Sippey, who employed a rubber-bag dilator. Mikulicz recommends that the stomach be opened and the cardia dilated by means of special rubber-coated forceps. He quotes six successful cases. Rosenheim in two cases successfully dilated a cardiac spasmodic stricture by introducing rubber bags which were then filled with air or water. Fibrous Stricture of the QEsophagus Etiology.—Fibrous cicatricial stricture occurs as a late result of ulceration of the mucous membrane. This ulceration is generally due to the swallowing of corrosive fluids or of boiling water, but occasionally follows the impaction of a foreign body, whilst rarely it is tuberculous or syfhilitic in origin. Pathology.—The formation of the stricture depends entirely