384 THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM . . . begins to suffer from a capricious appetite " ; a distaste for food may be first noticed, perhaps a distaste for meat only. This was at one time considered an important diagnostic point, but in 87 cases in which I made inquiry it was only noted as the first symptom in 3, though it is usually present when the disease has advanced. Pain is the most constant feature, and is present in 85 per cent, of the cases. It is not so sharp or so localized as in ulcer, is often not relieved when the stomach is empty, and is seldom relieved by rest. Vomiting may be absent or infrequent when the growth is pre- pyloric, and does little to relieve the pain; it frequently occurs independently of food, is often offensive, and contains small quantities of blood. In growths causing pyloric obstruction, vomiting is often the first symptom. Careful examination of the vomit will show the presence of blood in practically every case. As a rule it is slight, and may only be revealed by the test for " occult " haemorrhage ; if greater in amount it may impart a " coffee-grounds " appearance to the vomit. Bleeding sufficient to cause hsematemesis is unusual; Brinton esti- mated its frequency as 6 per cent. Fatal haemorrhage occurs in not more than 1 per cent, of the cases. When the growth is diffuse, involving the whole of the stomach (" leather-bottle " stomach), there is inability to take more than a certain amount of food without causing vomiting, and the amount that can be taken gradually diminishes. A palpable tumour is present at some time during the course of over 70 per cent, of the cases ; but it must be remembered that it is a late sign. It has been stated (Czerny, Eindfleisch) that the presence of a tumour means that the disease is inoperable. This is not so. Instances have been recorded, among others by Mayo Robson and Kocher, of patients alive and well six or seven years after partial gastrectomy for carcinoma, although a tumour had been palpable before operation. While the majority of tumours are felt in the umbilical region, a tumour due to carcinoma of the pylorus may be found in almost any part of the abdomen, while those due to growths of the lesser curvature and to " leather-bottle " stomach are seen in the epigastric and left hypochondriac regions. Inspection of the abdomen will generally reveal the tumour moving on respiration. Tumours of the pylorus can be usually moved from side to side, and vary in the position they occupy according to the condition of the stomach. Many of these tumours receive trans- mitted pulsation from the aorta. Very rarely indeed the patient comes under observation because the tumour has been noticed and no other signs are present. Inflation of the stomach wUl sometimes aid the diagnosis in obscure cases.