NON-SUPPURATIVE NEPHRITIS 813 receive tlie urine from the fistula. In postoperative purulent non- urinary fistuljB the track should be dissected out, and all side tracks and pockets opened up and drained. In urinary fistulfe, when the ureter is patent, drainage by a catheter en demeure has been recommended. Injection of the fistula with a bismuth paste may be tried for three weeks. If the ureter is impassable and the kidney retains a considerable part of its function, a plastic operation on the renal pelvis is necessary. If the functional value of the kidney is low and the second kidney healthy, nephrectomy should be performed. SURGICAL TREATMENT OF NON-SUPPURATIVE NEPHRITIS Acute nephritis.—In 1896. Reginakl Harrison recommended in- cision of the renal capsule and puncture of the kidney for acute nephritis wlien associated with delayed convalescence, with suppression, or with cardiac and cu'culatory complications. Otliers have recommended nephrotomy with the same object. Chronic Bright's disease.—1. Edebohls, Pousson, Casper, and others have treated acute c.vaccrbations of chronic Bright's disease by operation when medical treatment has failed. Cases with advanced cardio- vascular and pulmonary complications are unsuitable. Decapsulation and nephrotomy have been recommended. Except in the rare cases of proved unilateral disease, decapsulation is rapidly performed on both sides. The immediate mortality is 25 jjer cent., partly due to the f)atients being mori- bund when the operation was performed. Some cures have been claimed, but improvement is usually temporary. 2. In 1901, Edebohls suggested decapsulation for chronic Bright's disease, in the belief that thus a collateral anastomosis would be established, and provide a free flow of blood through the kidney ; he hoped to cause absorption of the interstitial fibrous tissue, and, by removal of the j^ressure upon the tubules, obtain regeneration of the renal epithelium. According to Edebohls, experiments show that, although the fibrous capsule invariably re-forms in a few weeks, the new capsule is comfiosed of loose connective tissue which does not compress the kidney. A parietal anastomosis has actually been observed, which was not strangled by contraction of the new cajjsule. The kidney has also been transplanted into the peritoneal cavity, and formed adhesions with the serous membrane or the omentum. Although the course of the cUsease is generally uninfluenced, improve- ment is undoubted in some, and a cure has been claimed in a few cases. The operative mortality is 5 per cent. HYDRONEPHROSIS Hydronephrosis is chronic aseptic retention of urine in the kidney and renal pelvis due to ureteral or urethral obstruction. Etiology.—Hydronephrosis is slightly more frequent in the female sex and on the right side. It may be bilateral, especially when the obstruction is urethral. Ureteral obstruction may be caused by—(«■) changes in the wall of the ureter (valves, folds, strictures) ; (b) obstruction of the hunen