THE SALIVARY GLANDS 246 become septic owing to an ascending infection from the mouth ; and the condition will then closely resemble that described in connexion with a salivary calculus. In certain cases phosphate and carbonate of lime are deposited on the walls of the cyst, and the diagnosis from a salivary calculus is hardly possible. In an uncomplicated case the diagnosis should be easy. An ovoid tumour can be seen lying in the position of the duct, with its long axis parallel to the line of the duct. If it is picked up between the fingers it will be felt to contain fluid. Firm pressure will expel its contents, and the walls will fall into apposition. The most efficient treatment is to make an incision in the mucous membrane and dissect the cyst out entirely. The wound, in the mucous membrane should be left open. Cysts of the Glands More rarely, retention cysts form in the salivarj^ glands them- selves. They commence as such in one or more of the smaller ducts. If multiple they coalesce and tend eventually to form a cyst of con- siderable size. In the early stages it is not easy to make certain of their presence, but later they tend to come to the surface and form a superficial fluctuating swelling. Even then it is not easy to diagnose them from salivary tumours which have undergone cystic degenera- tion ; the only reliable method being to withdraw a portion of the contents with an aspirating syringe, and subject it to a micro- scopical examination. Treatment.—If the cyst is situated in the submaxillary gland, it is best to enucleate the gland entirely. In the case of the parotid,., attempts should be made to obliterate the cj^st by periodic injections of tincture of iodine or of a concentrated solution of carbolic acid. But if these fail, as they often do, it is justifiable to undertake an operation for the excision of the cyst. Ranula Ranula is considered by some authorities to be a retention cyst of the sublingual gland or of one of the ducts of Rivini, and a short account of it will therefore be given at this point. A ranula is a cystic swelling in the floor of the mouth, to one or other side of the frjenum. It may extend across the middle line, and is then constricted by the fraenum linguae. Several observers have reported a bilateral ranula, but this condition must be regarded as one of great rarity. It presents as a rounded, bluish-grey, translucent, fluctuating swelling, with vessels of the mucous membrane stretched over it. It contains a slimy, colourless material like the white of egg. It causes no symptoms other than the inconvenience due to the presence