527 f TUMOURS OF THE COLON 1 See Vol. I., p. 551. they ulcerate, as they frequently do in the lower parts of the bowel, where they are subjected to irritation by hard faeces. These growths are to be clearly distinguished from the polypoid condition of the mucous membrane frequently met with in cases of ileo-cfecal tuberculosis, stricture of the bowel, and fibromatosis of the colon. Clinical features.—The most characteristic feature is severe and intractable diarrhoea, frequently attended with painful tenesmus. The stools contain a great cpiantity of mucus, which is often mixed with blood. There is constant pain in the abdomen and tenderness on pressure along the line of the colon, and the patient becomes anaemic and rapidly emaciates. The tumours may be felt on digital examina- tion of the rectum, or they may be seen with the aid of the sigmoidoscope. Treatment.—The only treatment that holds out any hope of complete or permanent relief is excision of the whole colon, but as the growths fi-equently invade the rectum also, this is not always practicable. The risk of the operation in suitable cases is compensated for by the prospect of getting rid of a condition which is likely sooner or later to assume malignant characters. No extensive operation should be undertaken to remove the growths found in the rectum until it has been determined that the colon is free of them, as no benefit follows this procedure. Nor does colostomy with irrigation of the colon afford such relief as to compensate for the discomfort of the artificial anus. Malignant Tumours Carcinoma.^—If we exclude the rectum, it may be said that 95 per cent, of cases of carcinoma of the intestine are met mth in the colon. The tumour in the colon is nearly always the primary lesion, growths of metastatic origin being rare. I have met with one case in wliich cancer of the colon supervened in a patient whose breast I had removed for scirrhous carcinoma some years pre- viously. Cases have been recorded in which more than one tumour was present in the bowel, probably as a result of direct infection by implantation, but cancers of different varieties may also be present in the same case. As compared with cancer in other parts of the body, carcinoma of the colon is, on the whole, less malignant, the growth of the tumour being slower, the invasion of lymphatics talcing place later, and metas- tasis occurring only at a late stage in the disease. It is not on this account, however, less serious, as the effect of the tumour in occluding the lumen of the gut and leading to obstruction of the bowels renders it a condition of great gravity.