773 PANCREATIC CYSTS lifted forwards and pushed upwards, while the colon is thrust downwards and forwards against the belly wall. On the left the swelling impinges on the parietes just below the costal margin, the spleen being pushed up and the splenic flexure down, so that in this situation such an effusion can easily be reached by the surgeon. Clinical features.—Cysts are generally found in adults, though they may occur even in infants. Whereas true C3^sts commence gradually, and are often discovered accidentally, pseudo-cysts invari- ably follow injury or some acute inflammatory disturbance. In the true cysts the symptoms usually depend on the size of the tumour, and may merely be those of epigastric fullness or distress, or there may be nausea and vomiting, symptoms of intestinal obstruction, or jaundice from pressure on the bile-ducts. Pain, when present, often heralds secondary changes. As a rule, there are no characteristic urinary changes. The cysts feel soft and cystic when large, but firm and solid when small. The history of the pseudo-cysts that arise as the result of injury is usually that of a blow or crush of the upper abdomen, followed by severe pain, with signs of collapse, and with tenderness and rigidity in the epigastrium. These symptoms usually subside in the course of a day or two, but later there is a return of the pain, accompanied by a sense of fullness in the upper abdomen ; here a swelling soon becomes obvious, and often so rapidly increases in size as to cause dyspnoea witjiin a very few days. The history is not always so rapid, and there may be an interval of a week or even some months before a recurrence of pain and the appearance of a swelling reveal the nature of the case. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis is usually a question of the differen- tiation of a cystic tumour in the upper abdomen, because, as a rule, evidence of interference with the pancreatic function is absent; if present, however, urinary or fsecal changes may be of great con- firmatory value. Prognosis.—In true cysts of the pancreas a spontaneous cure never occurs. The inflammatory effusions into the lesser sac may disappear without treatment, but generally tend to get rapidly worse. Treatment.—Puncture or aspiration should never be employed, as it involves a grave risk of sepsis or haemorrhage, -without any com- pensating advantage. Complete extirpation, though an ideal method, can seldom be satisfactorily carried out. Drainage is the treatment most generally applicable and satis- factory. The parietal abdominal incision should be made over the most accessible part of the cyst, usually in the middle line above the umbilicus. After protecting the general peritoneal cavity by gauze packing or by slightly withdrawing the cyst, if possible, from the abdomen, the surgeon evacuates the cyst and carefully examines its