HYDRONEPHROSIS 817 On cystoscopy tliere may be in tlie early stage increased frequency of ureteric contractions from polyuria, and in the later stage diminislied frequency from the reduction in quantity of urine. When the block is complete there may be an occasional gaping at the ureteric orifice, and when the muscular power of the pelvis and ureter are completely destroyed the orifice is still. A ureteric catheter is arrested at some part of the ureter or uretero- pelvic junction, where the obstruction is situated. It usually passes after gentle manipulation, and a rapid flow of urine follows. Diagnosis.—The symptoms may lead to a diagnosis and the X-rays show the presence of a stone. Frequently the diagnosis is uncertain in the early stages, and commencing dilatation can only be ascertained by one of the following methods : 1. Estimation of the capacity of the renal pelvis (Kelly) by passage of a ureteric catheter and injection of a known quantity of fluid after removal of the pelvic contents. A capacity of 30-40 c.c. shows a moderate degree of hydronephrosis. 2. Pyelography (Voelcker and Lichtenberg).—The pelvis of the kidney is emptied by ureteral catheter and a warm solution of collargol (10 or 20 per cent.) is slowly injected. A radiogram is taken, and a shadow showing the contour of the renal pelvis and calyces is obtained. 3. Proportional renal mensuration (Thomson Walker).—The shadow of the kidney is obtained by the X-rays, and the normal size is shown by the following measurements : The normal outer border of the kidney may be outlined as passing through three points—(a), on the horizontal mid-plane of the 12tli dorsal vertebra at a distance from its margin equal to double the narrowest transverse measurement of the centrum ; (6) and (c), corresponding points on the mid-planes of the 1st and 2nd lumbar vertebrae. The size of the kidney can be measured by passing a ureteric catheter opaque in alternate half inches and obtaining a radiogram. On the plate the shadow value of half an inch is obtainedj and the kidney shadow is measured with this. Prognosis.—If sepsis is superadded a pyonephrosis results, and the prognosis is grave. Bilateral hydronephrosis is not incom- patible with an active life, but eventually leads to suppression of urine Treatment. — Congenital hydronephrosis is rarely operable ; bilateral nephrostomy may be performed if both kidneys are affected, but the infants invariably die. In cases of urethral obstruction with hydronephrosis, operation for the relief of the obstruction should be undertaken. No direct operative treatment of the hydronephrosis will be necessary. In cases of movable kidney, early nephropexy should be performed. In advanced cases the uretero-pelvic junction should be examined both outside and within the pelvis. When calculus is present it 3 a