460 THE INTESTINES intestinal contents by opening up a puncture wliicli lias been closed by natural means, or sealed off by fibrinous exudate. The clinical features are similar to those of subcutaneous rupture (p. 458), and the external wound indicates the site of the injured loop of bowel, which is almost invariably immediately beneath the wound in the parietes. The escape of gas or faeces, or the protrusion of the damaged loop of bowel through the external wound, removes all doubt as to the diagnosis, but in the absence of these signs it is often extremely difficult to decide whether the bowel has been injured or not. If the nature of the accident, the length and character of the weapon, and the position of the external wound render it probable that the bowel has been injured, an exploratory operation should always be performed at once. The existing wound is opened up and purified, the underlying coils of bowel examined, and any lesions found dealt with. If the puncture is small and single, it may be closed by a Lem- bert suture, introduced at right angles to the long axis of the bowel ; if more extensive, it may be necessary to resect a portion of the gut and estabhsh a lateral anastomosis. A considerable length of the bowel should be examined, as there may be more than one wound. The peritoneum is cleansed and the parietal wound closed, siiitable provision being made for drainage. For the first few days the patient should be kept in the Fowler position. Gunshot Wounds The experience of military surgeons in warfare goes to show that injiiries of the intestine produced by modern small-bore bullets are much less serious than were those due to the older and larger missiles. The puncture in the bowel made by a high-velocity conical bullet is extremely minute, and the mucous membrane protrudes and closes the aperture; and, as the peristalsis is immediately arrested by the shock, time is given for plastic lymph to be effused and adhesions to form between adjacent coils of intestine, or with a tag of omentum, before intestinal contents pass along the damaged segment, and thus leakage is prevented. This is the more hkely to occur as the patient has often been fasting for some hours before being wounded. The patient should, as far as possible, be left undisturbed for some hours after being wounded, in order that the formation of plastic lymph may not be interfered with. On no account should the wound be probed. In the South African War about one-third of the cases of injury of the small intestine, and about two-thirds of the cases of injury of the colon, recoviered without operation. Operative inter- ference should not be delayed if there is evidence of infection of the peritoneum or of severe internal haemorrhage.