DISEASES OF THE NIPPLE 9 dition is of importance because it produces inability to suckle and favours sepsis at tlie orifices of the milk-ducts. It may thus become a cause of milk congestion, acute mastitis, and mammary abscess. Acquired retraction of the nipple indicates a fibrotic process in the underlying breast tissue. It is an important sign of cancer, depending upon the reactive or inflammatory processes associated with the growth. Less commonly, retraction is associated with Paget's disease, or depends upon scarring, the result of an abscess or a shrivelled cyst. Some authors incorrectly state that it occurs in chronic mastitis. SIMPLE ECZEMA OF THE NIPPLE May arise in the course of or apart from pregnancy or lactation, and may be a cause of abscess of the breast. The Staphylococcus fijogenes aureus has been demonstrated in the discharge, and may also be present in the milk during lactation. Treatment.—Various ointments may be tried. Boric, lead subacetate, and mild mercurial ointments are those most often used. If these fail and Paget's disease can be excluded, a trial of vaccine treatment should be made after bacterial examination. When eczema of the nipple occurs during lactation it is best to wean the child, both on the mother's account, because a mammary abscess is a likely sequel, and for the child's sake, because the milk is likely to contain staphylococci. Only if the eczema is very slight in degree can sanction be given for continued suckling, through a nipple shield. In such circumstances no poisonous ointments must be prescribed. Cracked nipple is the term applied to a fissured condition of the skin of the nipple, comparable to " chapped hands." It is usually associated with eczema of the nipple, and generally occurs during suckling. The treatment is the same as for eczema. PAPILLOMA OF THE NIPPLE This condition is sometimes met with, and the papilloma may attain a considerable size. Owing to the constant drag of the tumour on loose tissues, the larger examples of these tumours are pedun- culated. In the course of years the pedicle may become long and attenuated, and pulsation may be felt in it. The tumour itself is usually globular, and its surface lobulated and warty. Owing to septic changes the tumour may exude an offensive serous discharge or may ulcerate. Treatment.—A sessile wart of the areola should be excised. A pedunculated wart should be strangulated by tying a stout ligature round the base of its pedicle.