314 THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM They were lield by Letulle to be a congenital abnormality, but are now usually considered to be acquired. Arthur Keith states that they are not uncommon in old people, especially in those who are the subjects of enteroptosis. In 3 of the 12 cases that he studied there were two pouches, the orifices being to the right and left of the common bile-duct. INFANTILE STENOSIS OF THE PYLOKUS (CONGENITAL HYPEETROPHIC STENOSIS) This is a condition producing symptoms in the early weeks of life characterized by propulsive vomiting associated with a definite pyloric tumour. Among its many names, " infantile" stenosis is A B Fig. 366.—Duodenal pouches. {Keith.) A, An early stage; B, a small pouch to the right of the common bile-duct; c, pouches on each side of the duct. preferable, as its causation is not certain, and the name often applied to it—congenital hypertrophic stenosis—is therefore misleading. Although the first case of thh disease was recorded in 1788 by Hezekiah Bardsley (Osier) as " scirrhus of the pylorus," it is only of recent years that the condition has been readily recognized, largely owing to the work of John Thomson. It must certainly be regarded as uncommon. In spite of the considerable attention directed to it within the last few years, up to May, 1905, Scudder and Quinby had collected only 115 cases. During the years 1899-1908 only 6 cases were met with at the London Hospital, and no case was operated upon. Coutts had met with only 1 case during the last twelve years at the East London Children's Hospital, and during this time the condition had been found there in only 3 post-mortems. Etiology.—A considerable difference of opinion exists with regard to causation. There are two principal theories-—(1) that the condition is primary and due to congenital overgrowth of muscle ; (2) that it is secondary to pyloric spasm. Cautley and Dent uphold the former theory; Robert Hutchison and John Thomson the latter, which receives the greater amount of support. In favour of its secondary origin is the fact that it has never been met with in the foetus. Keith states that there is not a single specimen in museums