III HYPERTROPHIED SPLEEN latent malarial infection. Others are probably due to unrecognized sypkilis. Such an enlarged spleen is liable to prolapse, and therefore to cause not only inconvenience but danger from torsion of the pedicle, intestinal obstruction, or pressure on other organs. Chronic malaria is by far the commonest cause. A malarial spleen ■(ague-cake) may attain an enormous size and become a veritable burden to the owner. The soft and moderately enlarged spleen of' acute malaria usually yields to medical treatment. The hyper- trophied spleen of chronic malaria may exist for many years without giving rise to symptoms. Excessive hyjiertrophy, combined with abnormal mobiHty, leads to considerable risk of rupture following on slight injury. Death has been known to ensue in a few minutes after " turning in bed," a " flick with a cane," a " dig in the ribs " (Battle). The late Surg.-Gen. Coull-Mackenzie states that 68-9 per cent, of cases of rupture of malarial spleen ended fatally within half an hour. A not uncommon method of assassination in Southern China is by a blow in the abdomen with a cruciform iron instrument known as a " larang " {Crawford). Rupture of a malarial spleen may be compared to that of an aneurysm ; rupture of a normal spleen to that of a large artery (Battle). Treatment.—The large spleen of chronic malaria is often accompanied by extreme anaemia, and for this reason, as also for extreme mobility and torsion, or to avoid the risk of torsion or rupture, has been frequently removed. According to Jonnesco, to remove the spleen is to remove the breeding place." Statistics show that the mortality of the operation is high both for malarial and for so-called idiopathic hypertroi^li}^ but Johnston's table indicates that the mortality is much lower when the hyper- trophy is accompanied by increased mobility. This fact is prob- ably accounted for by the comparative ease with which a movable spleen, even though of considerable size, can be delivered outside the abdomen. The rate of mortality for so-called idiopathic hyper- trophy and simple malarial enlargement (in the absence of ectopia or torsion) is not encouraging to the surgeon. Vanverts states that of 39 splenectomies for malarial hypertrophy with adhesions 28 died, whereas out of 35 for hypertrophy without adhesions only 2 succumbed. Operation is only indicated when the condition is complicated by excessive mobility, and when by reason of the patient's occupation tliere is danger of rupture or torsion. HYPERTROPHY IN SPLENIC ANAEMIA This is a disease of young adult life, and should be distinguished from the anaemias of infancy, which are often associated with splenic