689 INTERMUSCULAR FISTULA interior of the bowel from the beginning, or the diseased bowel wall may be readily perforated at a later date. The internal opening of the fistula is between the internal and external sphincter muscles, or in the immediate vicinity, the track passing through the fibres of one or other muscle. The reasons for this fact are that the disease which originally caused the abscess is situated in this region of the bowel; the sloping internal boundary of the abscess (the levator ani and its fascia) passes to the bowel between the sphincter muscles, and will direct the pus to this space ; the main branches of the inferior hsemor- rhoidal vessels enter the bowel here, and may influence the direction in which suppuration extends. The internal opening is generally single. When two internal openings are present there are either two distinct fistulas, or the second opening is higher and at the upper extremity of a submucous track, an offshoot of the original abscess. The opening is frequently situated posteriorly just to one side of the mid-line. This is probably explained either by the better develop- ment of the sinuses of Morgagni posteriorly, the original infection being, therefore, more likely to arise from this part of the bowel, or by the greater interval between the sphincters jDOsteriorly permitting pus to track there more readily. The external opening of the fistula is at first single. Imperfect drainage and burrowing of pus frequently lead to secondary abscesses, which open spontaneously, and hence multiple external openings are by no means uncommon. They may be situated in the skin over any part of the ischio-rectal fossa, or at some distance from this, in the buttocks or the perineum. An ischio-rectal abscess may track from one fossa to the other. The external openings of a fistula may therefore be on opposite sides of the anus. The name " horseshoe- shaped " fistula has been given to this variety. When the internal orifice has its common posterior position the fistulous track is curved or tortuous. When, however, the internal orifice is situated laterally the external orifice is generally immediately opposite, and the fistula is short and direct. The symptoms of an intermuscular fistula are various. If untreated, secondary abscesses form sooner or later, and are attended by the symptoms of pent-up pus. Flatus, and rarely fseces, may escape from a fistula. On examination, the external orifices are readily detected. The internal orifice may generally be felt or seen, but sometimes it cannot, and then without the aid of an anassthetic the diagnosis between a fistula and a cutaneous sinus is impossible. The track of an old-standing fistula may be felt as an indurated cord in the tissues. The passage of a probe is often impeded by the tortuosity of the fistula, and is unnecessary before operation. Treatment.—Operation is the only satisfactory treatment of an