828 THE KIDNEY Method of infection.—The bacilli reach the kidney by one of three paths—(1) ascending (secondary renal tuberculosis) ; (2) haematogenous (primary renal tuberculosis) ; (3) lymphatic. Although ascending tuberculosis has been proved experimentally to be possible, it is doubtful if it ever occurs clinically. Hsematogenous infection is the method by which the kidney is attacked in the great majority of cases. Lymphatic infection from the mediastinal lymph-glands infected from a bygone pleurisy is said to occur frequently (Brongersma), but proof of this is lacking. Etiology.—Renal tuberculosis is most frequent between the ages of 20 and 40 ; it is uncommon in childhood and rare in old age. Women are the more frequently affected, and the right kidney more often than the left. Tuberculous disease is unilateral in from 85 per cent. (Legueu) to 92 per cent. (Kjonlein) of cases in the early stage. In the late stage it is bilateral in 53"3 per cent. In cliildren it is bilateral in 53 per cent, of cases. Secondary infections with Bacillus coli, the streptococcus, and the staphylococcus may occur. Pathological anatomy.—The following varieties may be enumerated :— 1. Miliary tuberculosis. 2. Ulcero-cavernous form.—This, the common form, com- mences with congestion and ulceration at the apex of a pyramid at one pole, and progresses from the pelvis outwards until the pyramid is entirely hollowed out. Other pyramids are attacked, and the pockets may unite to form larger cavities. (Plate 103.) Tubercles may dot the cortex, singly or in groups, or may entirely permeate it. At the mouth of a calyx or of a large branch of the pelvis into which the ulcerated calyces open there is thickening of the wall and narrowing of the outlet, which may temporarily shut off this part from the urinary tract. 3. Tuberculous hydronephrosis.—Where thickening and con- traction of the wall of one part of the pelvis or of a single calyx continues to the point of obliteration, or where the same process develops at the outlet of the ureter, a partial or total tuberculous hydronephrosis results. The fluid content is pale and turbid with white flakes, and the lining irregular and greyish-white. Parenchymatous and interstitial nephritis and waxy disease are observed in the kidneys of tuberculous patients, and are due to the poisons produced by the tubercle bacillus. Tuberculous lesions are found in the renal pelvis and ureter. Ste- nosis of the pelvic outlet causes hydronephrosis. The fatty capsule and fat around the renal vessels are greatly thickened, coarse, fibrous, and densely adherent. Enlarged lymph-glands are present. Giant-cell systems may be found in the perirenal fat.