320 THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM Tlie stomach is usually somewhat dilated. It may assume an almost horse-shoe shape, allowing the pancreas to appear above the lesser curvature, or in rare cases the pylorus itself may descend and the stomach become vertical. Symptoms are absent in many cases, and when present resemble those of atonic dilatation of the stomach. It should be remembered that they do not depend upon the abnormally low position of the stomach, but upon motor insufficiency from general ill-health or from pyloric obstruction. The patients are usually thin, and often the subjects of neurasthenia. The chief complaint is usually of a feehng of fullness after meals, often necessitating loosening of the clothes. Vomiting is unusual, but nausea and retching are common. In many cases pain is complained of directly food enters the stomach. Diagnosis.—Examination of the patient readily leads to correct diagnosis. Inspection of the abdomen when the patient is standing wiU usually reveal the prominent lower belly characteristic of entero- ptosis. If the stomach has descended, the low position of the lesser curvature is readily seen, often immediately above the umbilicus, moving up and down with respiration. Treatment.—Surgical treatment is only called for in the rare cases in which obstruction due to kinking is present at the pylorus, and is not remedied by medical means, such as rest in bed with the foot of the bed raised, combined with abdominal massage and, if there is evidence of retention of food, gastric lavage for at least three weeks. On the resumption of the erect position a well-fitting abdominal belt should be worn. Many operative procedures have been advised and adopted since Duret sutured the anterior gastric wall to the peritoneum in 1894. Of operations designed to remedy the position of the stomach the best is imdoubtedly Sir Frederic Eve's modification of Beyea's operation. The stomach is raised to the under surface of the liver by sutures passed through the attachment of the lesser omentum to these organs. Beyea reports 26 operations ; all the patients except 3 are quite well. In my opinion, however, operations of this nature are. not more successful than non-operative treatment, and in cases with marked obstruction have failed to relieve the symptoms entirely. Other surgeons, among whom are Deaver and Mayo Robson, prefer gastro-jejunostomy for the rare cases which need operation. But it is in atonic stomachs such as these that the operation is liable to be followed by regurgitant vomiting. For the emphatically rare cases in which operative measures are indicated, I believe Finney's gastro-duodenostomy gives the best results, and I have used it with perfect success.