4o5 THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM Rodman's operation.—This is a variety of partial gastrectomy performed for indurated ulcer of the pyloric end of the stomach in cases in which the diagnosis from carcinoma is uncertain. Rodman excises the ulcer-bearing area in all cases of pyloric ulcer. His opera- tion differs from that just described in that the whole of the lesser curvature, the duodenum, or glands need not be removed, but both duodenum and stomach should be closed and posterior gastro-jejun- ostomy performed. Complete Gastrectomy The operation is begun as in partial gastrectomy, but the entire great omentum and then the gastro-splenic omentum are ligatured off. After division of the coronary artery the stomach can be pulled well out. It should not be removed yet, but a coil of jejunum brought up, clamped, and united to the extreme cardiac end of the stomach by stitches passing through serous and muscular coats. An opening is then made in both, and gradually enlarged as stitches are put in through all the coats of each viscus, the stomach in this way being removed. Finally, the operation is completed by the insertion of an anterior row of sero-muscular stitches ; or the jejunum may be divided completely, its distal end anastomosed to the oesophagus, and its proximal into its distal portion, GASTRO-ENTEROSTOMY This operation consists in making an anastomosis between the stomach and the small intestine. The jejunum is usually chosen (gastro-jejunostomy), in a few cases the duodenum (gastro-duoden- ostomy). Gastro-J e junostomy This may be performed to the anterior or posterior surface of the stomach. The latter is the operation of choice. At first a loop was left between the anastomosis and the duodeno-jejunal junction, but this should never be done {see p. 413). Posterior Gastro-Jejunostomy After careful examination of the stomach, the transverse colon and omentum are withdrawn from the abdomen and an opening made in the transverse mesocolon, beginning close to the point at which it is in contact with the jejunum. The opening should then be enlarged, care being taken to avoid injury to vessels. The portion of stomach wall which is to be used for the anastomosis is drawn through this opening and clamped in a vertical direction from the lesser to the greater curvature. The duodeno-jejunal flexure is now carefully examined (the jejunum at its origin should always be seen) (p. 299). The jejunum is then stretched tightly from the duodeno-