733- HEPATIC ABSCESS In subcutaneous injuries, evidence of severe hsemorrliage, or in the milder cases an increasing pulse-rate or persistence of tenderness and rigidity, indicates interference. In operating it must be borne in mind that the hfemorrhage is partly controlled by the rigidity of the abdominal muscles, and that as soon as this is relaxed the bleeding may become furious. The best incision is a median one from the xiphisternum to the umbilicus. Exposure of a laceration far back on the convexity may require a cross-cut to the right or division of the suspensory and right lateral ligament. Hsemorrhage may be temporarily checked by grasping the portal vein and hepatic artery between the fingers in the foramen of Winslow and the thumb in front. Lacerations should be sutured, if possible, but if the site of injury cannot be easily ex- j)osed, reliance should be placed on immediate packing with gauze. Sometimes a combination of the two methods is useful. Often in stab wounds the diagnosis can only be confirmed by laparotomy, which may have to be combined with a transpleural! incision along the track of the knife. In the after-treatment of liver injuries, secondary ha?morrhage, abscess—intrahepatic or perihepatic—and biliary fistula must be watched for. SURGICAL INFECTIONS Liver Abscess Multiple liver abscesses may result from infection conveyed by (a) the hepatic artery, (b) the portal vein, (c) the bile-ducts, or {d) direct continuity. Single liver abscesses.—The most typical is the tropical dysenteric abscess. This generally results from infection by the Amoeba dijsenterice,. only occasionally complicating the bacterial form of the disease. The white races, especially males over 40, furnish 90 per cent, of the cases. The abscess may occur at any stage of the disease, or long after all dysenteric symptoms have disajjpeared. Alcohol, free living, and exposure are all exciting causes. Morbid anatomy.—In about 70 per cent, of cases the abscess- is confined to the right lobe, the posterior and upper part being the favourite site. Though usually spoken of as " solitary," in about 40 per cent, of cases there is more than one abscess. (Fig. 521.) The contents of the abscess cavity are usually chocolate-coloured, very viscid, and not offensive. The abscess may extend into the sur- rounding healtliy liver, may burst into the peritoneum, the lung, or more rarely externally, or may shrivel up and its contents become- inspissated. Clinical features.—The symptoms are characteristically varir-