ANATOMY OF THE TONGUE Glands of the tongue.—There are a number of small racemose glands situated in the posterior part of the tongue, and a few are found in relation to the circumTallate papillse. The most important, however, are the apical glands of Blandin and Nuhn, which are situated on the inferior surface, a little distance from the apex. They are mixed serous and mucous glands, and tliey open by means of three or four small ducts on either side of the upper attachment of the fra-num. Arteries.—The main artery of the tongue is the lingual, a branch of the external carotid, which reaches the organ by passing under cover of the hyo-glossus muscle, its terminal branches being the sub- lingual, to the sublingual gland, and the ranine, peculiar to the tongue. There is no free anastomosis between the vessels of the two sides. The posterior portion is supplied by the dorsalis linguae branch of the lingual, reinforced by the tonsillar branch of the facial. Veins.—The veins do not follow closely the course of the arteries. There are two vense comites which run with the lingual artery beneath the hyo-glossus, but they are small, the greater part of the blood being conveyed back by the ranine veins, two large vessels situated one on either side of the frsenum, immediately beneath the mucous membrane. These veins pass backwards over the hyo-glossus and usually join with the vente comites to form a common trimk which receives the dorsalis linguse vein before joining the internal jugular. Nerves.-—The anterior two-thirds of the mucous membrane is supplied by the lingual branch of the inferior maxillary division of the 5th nerve, accompanied by the chorda tympani, which may convey special taste-fibres to the former, but more probably is concerned with supplying the lateral margin of the tongue. The posterior third is supplied by the glosso-pharyngeal, which is generally considered the special nerve of taste. A few fibres are also derived from the superior pharyngeal branch of the vagus. The nerve supply of the muscles has been described. Lymphatics (Plate 86).—In modern surgery the course of the lymphatic vessels, influencing as it does the spread of malignant disease, is of the utmost importance. In the tongue itself there are two main sets of lymph-channels, the rich submucous network, and the scantier intramuscular vessels ; in the case of the former, it is to be noted that there is com- munication between the lymph-vessels of the two sides across the middle line. From these vessels the lymph passes to the glands, the muscular lymphatics uniting early with the submucous ; and it is possible to define four distinct sets for the purposes of description, as follows:—