URETHRAL CYSTS 901 or may be absent. Tickling and crawling sensations are sometimes experienced, and haemorrhage follows instrumentation. The polypus is discovered by the urethroscope, and is removed by fine alligator forceps or the electro-cautery. Cysts Small cysts are produced by blocking the urethral lacunae. Cysts of the sinus pocularis are rare. A cyst of Cowper s gland or ducts may form a con- siderable swelling which ruptures into the urethra. The treatment consists in incision with the electric cautery through the urethroscope tube. Caruncle Uretliral caruncle is discussed at p. 989. Malignant Growths of the Male Urethra Malignant growths of the male urethra are rare. Hall collected 48 examples. In addition to these, Barney records 2 cases, and I have had 4 under my care. The condition usually occurs between the ages of 50 and 60, rarely before 40. Trauma and leucoplakia from chronic m'ethritis are important factors in the etiology, and stricture is present in half the cases. The bulbous uretlu-a is usually affected, less often the penile urethra, and rarely the prostatic portion. The growth takes the form of a squamous epithelioma, very seldom a sarcoma. It infiltrates and destroys the mucous membrane and invades the corpus spongiosum. Eventually fistulaj form in the perineum. Symptoms.—The symptoms vary considerably. There is in- creasing dithculty, partly due to the fibrous stricture already present. Hajmor- rhage follows the j)assage of an instrument, and there may be a bloody dis- charge without instrumentation. A purulent discharge is frequently present. A swelling appears in the perineum in some cases, the skin becomes red, and either a fistula forms spontaneously, or the swelling is incised for a simple periurethral abscess. The growth then fungates, and progressive destruction of the ijerineal tissues takes place (Fig. 554). In the penile urethra hard induration of the wall of the canal is felt, whicli slowly increases and sj^reads. The penis is ventrally curved during erection, and becomes swollen into a club-like form. Uretlnral examination shows a fibrous stricture tlirough which the instrument may enter an irregular cavity with friable, readily bleeding walls. Urethroscopy may give a view of the growth. Lymph-glands Fig. 554.— Malignant growth of urethra ulcerating on perineum and scrotum, and round anus.