THE BREAST 78 widest experience is liable to err. If the growth is of recent and rapid development, and the patient young, life will probably terminate within a few months. In fibroid cancers of slow development the expectation of life is two to four years. But a cancer may remain active for forty years without killing its possessor, as in a case which I have seen. A prognosis of non-recurrence after operation can be given with fair confidence if the growth has not acquired adhesions to skin or fascia, nor caused axillary enlargement, always provided that a com- plete operation is performed. These are the cases detected by ex- ploratory operation. In cases where diagnosis is possible without exploration the chances are in favour of recurrence, and it is best to state that time alone will settle the question. In cases still operable, but presenting advanced symptoms, such as ulceration, operation should not be pressed, and the probability of internal recurrence should be mentioned. But apparently advanced cases sometimes do well, and in cases which seem early some disappointments will nevertheless occur. The percentage of patients who are permanently cured by opera- tion has steadily increased of late years as operative methods have improved. Future advances depend upon the earlier recognition of the disease, increasing knowledge of its pathology, and the abandon- ment of restricted or badly planned (though extensive) operations. Halsted's results show that when the modern complete operation is performed before the axillary glands have become involved, two out of three patients are permanently cured; while when the axillary glands are already infected at the time of operation, three out of four patients ultimately die of their disease. Time alone can show the effect of recent modifications of operative methods. At least 20 per cent, of patients who survive the operation three years die of later recurrence. Unusual varieties of breast cancer.—Breast cancer is so variable in its manifestations that it is impossible to furnish a description which suits all cases. Certain special forms need separate consideration. Medullary or soft carcinoma The hardness of a typical scirrhus is due to the fibrotic processes which are associated with it. If the proliferative activity of the cancerous epithelium outstrips these defensive fibrotic processes, a large lobulated growth of relatively soft consistence is rapidly formed. The axillary glands become enlarged and may soon attain the size of chestnuts, and the skin becomes extensively adherent and assumes the orange-rind appearance. Ulceration supervenes, and a fungating mass of mahgnant tissue protrudes, from which large sloughs may separate. Sepsis, repeated