io66 THE OVARY of the broad ligament, and (4) cysts of the tube. following manner : Certain of tlie cells of the germinal epithelium in- grow into the genital ridge in a series of prolongations known as the medullary cords. In the female these cell columns become the egg tubes of Pfliiger, and break up into a series of cell groups known as primitive follicles ; from them the ovum and the cells of the tunica granulosa and discus prohgerus are formed. In the male these cell cords develop into the cells lining the spermatogenic tubules ; these tubules are subsequently brought into continuity with the mesonephric tubules and ducts, and therefore into communication with the Wolffian duct, which now acts as a conduit (vas deferens) for conveyance of their secretion (spermatozoa). In the female, continuity between the mesonephric tubules and collecting ducts and the ingrowths from the germinal epithelium is never established, the former remaining, together with the Wolffian duct, as the vestiges in the mesosalpinx and ovarian hilum known as the paroophoron, Kobelt's tubules (epoophoron), and Gartner's duct respectively. The Miillerian ducts, from which is formed the female genital canal, are developed subsequently to the Wolffian ducts and outside them in the mesonephros. In the earhest stage of their existence each communicates with the coelom by three apertures which eventually fuse to form the abdominal ostium of the Fallopian tube. Occasionally tliis fails, and accessory ostia or cysts derived from them are found in adult life. The ovary, therefore, besides being in immediate relation with several vestigial structures, is the normal seat of undifierentiated embryonic cell seclusions. The enormous growth potentialities of these cells, as far as the ova are concerned, are held in abeyance by the occurrence in them of a peculiar form of karyokinetic division (maiotic mitosis) whereby the number of chromosomes contained in each cell is reduced to one-half of those in a somatic cell. Should this process fail to occur, the possibihty of a tumour by asexual cell division of an ovum must be admitted. The cells of the granulosa, hkewise derived from the germinal epithelium, are possibly also the seat of initiation of such teratomatous formations, whilst others may be derived from sequestered cells aberrant from the primitive egg tubes, or subsequent ingrowths from the germinal epithelium. Such an hypothesis best explains the frequency of teratomatous tumours in the sexual glands and the fact that the ovary, though it contains developmentally neither ectodermic nor entodermic derivatives, yet produces enormous tumours chiefly composed of epithehum. Cysts in the ovarian region may be divided into four groups : (1) cysts of the ovary proper, (2) cysts of the ovarian hilum, (3) cysts