THE BLADDER 848 considered (p. 780). The tests of the function of each kidney should be used. The most suitable are the phloridzin and the phenol-sulphone- phthalein tests (p. 779). INCONTINENCE OF URINE Incontinence of urine may be false or true. In false incontinence the bladder is full, as in chronic retention from prostatic or urethral obstruction, and the escape is the over- flow from the distended organ. In true incontinence the bladder is not distended. Of this there are two types, passive and active. In the passive type the sphincter is paralysed and the urine dribbles away without distending the bladder and without the assistance of contraction of the bladder. In the active type the urine is expelled by contraction of the bladder. Here there is sphincter action, but it is either too weak to resist normal contractions of the bladder, or the contractions are so strong as to overcome a normal sphincter. Incontinence due to Mechanical Causes This occurs more frequently in women than in men. It may be observed in a very slight degree on exertion in otherwise normal individuals. Parturition is a frequent cause. In older women in- continence occurs in combination with cystocele. Forcible dilata- tion of the urethra for digital examination of the bladder was at one time a frequent cause of incontinence in women. In men, perineal prostatectomy or the perineal drainage of the prostatic cavity after suprapubic prostatectomy may cause incontinence. Treatment.—In slight cases strychnine and ergot should be given. The use of a vaginal pessary is of service. A cystocele should be excised. For urethral dilatation Duret has transplanted the urethra for- wards to the neighbourhood of the clitoris, and Gersuny operates by dissecting up the female urethra and twisting it on its long axis. Paraffin has been injected around the urethra and vesical orifice in incontinence of urine in the female. If treatment fails a urinal must be worn. Incontinence due to Nervous Disease Incontinence occurs in organic diseases of the spinal cord. In some cases there is false incontinence (i.e. chronic distension and overflow), especially in the early stages of the bladder affections of tabes and transverse lesions of the cord. After a time the bladder regains some of its contractile power, the residual urine is reduced to 8 or 10 oz., and the patient can expel the rest voluntarily. Incon- tinence in these cases is first noticed at night ; bed-wetting which