VOLVULUS OF PELVIC COLON 495 (Fig. 421). The extent of the rotation varies from a half-twist— 180°—to two or even three complete turns. Morbid anatomy.—The gravity of the condition depends upon the tightness of the constriction at the base of the mesentery. If the twist does not implicate the blood-vessels in such a way as to occlude them, the symptoms are those of incarceration or incomplete obstruction ; but if the veins are occluded and the return of blood from the implicated segment is interfered with, symptoms of complete obstruction ensue. The twisted loop becomes intensely congested and edematous, and assumes a dark purple colour. Hsemorrhages occur into the tissues, and serum, mixed with blood, escapes into the lumen of the gut and into the peritoneal cavity. The fluid found on opening the abdomen is of a brownish chocolate colour—a point of some diagnostic importance. The twisted loop rapidly becomes enormously dilated, sometimes to such an extent that it nearly fills the abdominal cavity, pressing the small intestine backwards and towards the right. The diaphragm may be so pressed upon that the action of the heart and lungs is seriously impeded. The gas with which the bowel is distended is probably chiefly carbonic acid gas, which is not absorbed from the gut owing to the occlusion of the veins. Gases of putrefaction are also present, but the rapidity with which distension occurs makes it unlikely that they are the chief cause. The dilatation of the sigmoid may be so great that the longitudinal striie are not recognizable, and the peritoneal covering may split and gangrene of the gut take place. Under these conditions organisms soon pass through the wall of the bowel and, reaching the peritoneal surface, set up peritonitis, which sjjeedily becomes generalized. Although patches of gangrene often form in the distended bowel, perforation, when it occurs, is usually above the twist. Clinical features.—Volvulus of the pelvic colon is most frequently met with in adults in the prime of life, and is four times commoner in men than in women. There is generally a history of constipation. The symptoms usually come on suddenly, and the illness rapidly assumes the characters of acute and complete obstruc- tion. There is sharp pain, with exacerbations of a colicky character. It is generally referred to the region of the umbilicus, and radiates along the colon to the left ihac fossa and to the lumbar region and back. In a comparatively short time definite tenderness can be detected in the left iliac fossa, a symptom which indicates the onset of peritonitis. There is frequently severe tenesmus, but notliing is passed by the bowel. Vomiting is seldom an early or a prominent symptom, as the seat of tlie lesion is low down in the large intestine, but hiccup and eructation of gas are in many cases