CLEFT PALATE : THE EARLY OPERATION 151 jjlaced upon a warm- (not a hot-) water pillow, on a high table, with its head hanging over the edge, so that the operator, who is seated, may obtain a good view of the palate. The mouth is kept open with two of Lane's spring gags, one on each side, and the tongue is drawn forwards by a suture passing through its tip. During the operation, sterilized marine sponges, being soft and highly absorbent, are preferable to woollen swabs for mopping up the blood and saliva. The only special instruments required are : two pairs of long dissecting forceps, one toothed and one plain ; one stout, narrow-bladed scalpel ; one cleft-palate knife with a long thin handle, a narrow jDointed blade, and a cutting edge not more than a quarter of an inch in length ; two pairs of curved and bent ele- vators ; a pair of rectangular scissors'; and Lane's needle-holder and cleft-palate needles. In addition to the foregoing, there are required for Brophy's operation a pair of large curved needles on strong shafts, shaped somewhat like the needles employed in the repair of a ruptured perineum. Early operation for cleft palate.—The advantages of the early operation are— 1. The young infant, with few exceptions, is healthy. 2. Its digestion has not been impaired by experimental feeding. 3. Repair of its tissues takes place with great rapidity. 4. The absence of teeth renders its moutli free from pathogenic and putrefactive micro-organisms, and so minimizes the danger of sloughing. 5. The absence of teeth also permits of the fashioning of large flaps. 6. Htemorrhage is very slight, and the vessels, being so small, seldom recjuire ligation. 7. The baby seldom vomits after the aniesthetic, and takes its food with gusto within a few hours of the completion of the operation. 8. It generally sleeps for the greater part of the day. Tlie disadvantages are— 1. The field of operation is small, and the tissues are very friable, li. The soft palate formed by Lane's method becomes a rigid piece of cicatricial tissue if the muscular layer is encroached on when cutting the flaps. Brophy s operation.—The performance of this operation is practically impossible after the third month, owing to the ossification of the maxillte, and, according to its originator, is best carried out about the third week. In this country it has the support and approval of no less an authority than Edmund Owen, who regards it as the ideal operation for cleft palate. (Figs. 320 and 321.)