5 MAMMARY LYMPHATICS these perforating branches must be regarded not as true afferent lymphatics but as mere anastomotic channels of small diameter and sluggish stream, along which embolic transport of cancer cells cannot occur, though in a late stage of the disease they may be in- vaded by permeation. For, while invasion of the axillary glands is an early and almost constant event, cancer of the anterior mediastinal glands is only found in 6-5 per cent, of necropsies for breast cancer. Lymphatic communication between the breasts.— It will be clear from the preceding description that the lymphatic systems of the two breasts communicate across the middle line indirectly, through the medium of the fine vessels of the fascial plexus. Cancer can thus only spread to the opposite breast in a late stage and after permeation has crossed the middle Hne, an event which is usually signalized by embolic invasion and enlarge- ment of the opposite axillary glands. Tor sufficiently obvious reasons this embolic glandular enlargement precedes cancerous deposit in the opposite breast. Lymphatic arrangements of the skin.—It was formerly thought that breast cancer spread m the plane of the skin along a hypothetical plexus described by Arnold, situated at the junc- tion of the corium and subcutaneous tissue, and called the deep cutaneous plexus. Accordingly, the removal of a very large area of skin was considered imperative. In point of fact there is only one cutaneous lymphatic plexus, the subpapillary lymphatic plexus, and there is no evidence that permeation can spread to any extent along this plexus. The subpapillary plexus is drained by small vessels which run vertically downwards along the fibrous septa of the sub- cutaneous tissue to join the fascial plexus. Up-stream permeation of these small vessels accounts for the nodular invasion of the skin so often seen in the later stage of breast cancer. From the muscles small tributaries reach the fascial plexus on its deep aspect. Up-stream permeation of these tributaries is respon- sible for the muscular nodules which may occur in a late stage^, of cancer in the pectorals, the serratus magnus, the deltoid, the rectus abdominis, the intercostals, or other muscles which lie within the area of permeation. Development.—The breasts remain small and unimportant until puberty. Up to this age, and permanently in the male breast, the characteristic alveoli are absent, and the minute milk-ducts ter- minate in blind " end-sacs," lined by an epithelium which approxi- mates in character to the columnar epithelium of the ducts. At puberty the alveoli are formed as hollow buds which grow outwards from the end-sacs into the surrounding tissues.