RECTUM AND ANAL CANAL 7o8 and generally evolves gradually, but occasionally the prolapse may be complete and well developed from the beginning. The conditions essential for complete prolapse are—(1) stretching and eventually relaxation of the supporting tissues of the rectum —^the pelvic fascia, and the fat of the ischio-rectal fossge ; (2) a long mesentery to the pelvic colon ; (3) relaxation of the sphincter muscles. Complete prolapse is practically never found in a healthy fat baby, but only in the wasted baby with loss of perirectal fat. It is especially seen in association with severe diarrhoea, or with some specific fevers, e.g. measles and whooping-cough ; the severe cough in these diseases excites the formation of the prolapse. The relatively straighter course of the child's pelvis predisposes to the condition, especially if defseca- tion is permitted in the sitting posture, in which the rectum is prac- tically a straight tube. In adults complete prolapse is more common in women who have borne children, due, no doubt, to a laceration of some of the supporting tissues of the rectum during labour. In elderly subjects a partial protrusion is liable to become complete, for at this age the absorption of fatty tissues supporting the rectum is probable, and the sphincters easily lose tone. At any age a polypus may cause prolapse, partial or complete. Such a protrusion is more of the nature of an intussusception than a true prolapse, the part bearing the tumour becoming invaginated into the lower rectum. Intussusceptions of the rectum probably do not occur in the absence of a tumour. Clinical manifestations.—The appearances are quite dis- tinctive. Projecting from the anus is a more or less cylindrical mass covered with mucosa, and varying from a mere ring of mucosa in the partial, to a thick cylinder of bowel, 5 or 6 in. long, in the complete variety. In the smaller protrusions the cylinder is more or less straight, but in the larger it is slightly curved. The mucosa may have a normal appearance if not subjected to irritation, and if it be only loosely grasped by the sphincter; but when irritated or tightly gripped, it becomes of a dark-red or even purple colour. In cases which have been allowed to protrude for some time, abrasions of the mucosa may occur, and in some ulceration or acute infective gangrene may supervene. In others considerable thickening of the prolapsed part from inflammatory infiltration into the mucous and submucous tissues will occur. The mucosa in the larger protrusions is seen to be arranged in parallel and concentric folds, and the orifice is not infrequently more or less occluded by one of these folds. In complete prolapse the peritoneum covering the anterior surface of the rectum will be drawn down, and in large protrusions it must pass through the anal orifice with the bowel. A hernial sac is thus con-