LINGUAL TUBERCULOSIS All authorities do not accept the occurrence of primary tuber- culosis, and it has been held, with some reason, that in the reported cases a localized patch of pulmonary tubercle has been overlooked. Pathology.—The microscopic appearances of lingual tubercle are peculiar. It is rare to find the system of tubercles at all well marked, while even the giant cells are scarce. Again, careful staining will often fail to reveal tubercle bacilli. In many cases the arrangement of the proliferating endothelial cells is atypical, and in the form which is described as " infiltrating tubercle " they may be mistaken for epithelial cells, and a diagnosis of new growth (endothelioma) may be made. In doubtful cases it may be necessary to inoculate a guinea-pig with the suspected material. The various tubercular lesions may be grouped under the following headings:— 1. Nodes.—Small nodular masses varying in size from a pin's head to a nut, multiple in cases of generalized miliary tubercle, or single in the locally infected cases. These nodules consist of tuberculous granulations, covered at first with normal epithelium, which with the increase in the size of the tubercle is liable to break down and leave an ulcerated surface. The centre of the tuberculoma may undergo caseation. 2. Fissures, which are really fissured ulcers, probably originally simple ones that have become infected with tubercle, are very difficult to diagnose. When the edges of the cleft are separated, it is found to be much deeper than w^as expected, and to be lined with swollen granulations, with perhaps caseating margins. The material scraped from the surface may be shown to contain tubercle bacilli. Occasion- ally the margins of these fissures are covered with protruding growths of a papillary nature, to which the name tuherculous papilloma has been applied. 3. Ulcers.—The appearance of true tuberculous ulcers is very varied, no doubt because in but a very few instances, and then for a short time only, is the infection " unmixed." Sooner or later a tuberculous ulcer in a cavity such as the mouth is liable to contami- nation with the various bacteria and mycelia regularly found there, and thus becomes modified in appearance. Tliis fact explains why some ulcers are covered with a foul slough, and others are surrounded by an indurated zone suggesting cancer. It is a feature of the pure tuberculous process here, as elsewhere, that there is complete absence of induration. 4. The lupoid ulcer, which has been described by Butlin and Leloir, is exceedingly rare, and is caused either by extension of the lupoid ulceration into the interior of the mouth, or by contagion due to the drawing of the tongue over the infected lips. In appearance