SYPHILIS OF THE TONGUE 193 surface epithelium, being tliickeiied, takes on a grepsh-wlaite appear- ance ; the edge is sharply defined and, unless ulceration has occurred, there is no surrounding redness. If the epithelium is shed, a smooth, red, elevated surface is left behind ; but in their usual position on the dorsum the patches are exceedingly liable to become fissured or lUcerated, and accordingly modified in appearance. The diagnosis has to be made from leucoma, but the mucous patches are not so pearly-white as those of leucoma, while ulceration, if present, extends more deeply in the s}^hilitic lesions. Other symptoms, too, of generalized sypliilis will be present. Constitutional treatment of the disease is required, but for local application Butlin found that chromic acid, 10 gr. to the ounce, has a wonderful action, far superior to that of any mercurial remedies applied locally. In this as in all forms of syphilitic or other ulceration the lines of treatment laid down for superficial glossitis should be carried out rigidly. Tanturri has described an affection of the lymphoid follicles at the base of the tongue, a syphilitic hj^pcrtrophy of the adenoid tissue. Tertiary Stage In the third stage the tongue is more deeply afiected. The patho- logical changes again concern the fixed connective-tissue cells, which are stimulated to proliferate, either locally or generally. In the local form the aggregation of mononuclear cells leads to the development of a nodular mass, and the tendency of these newly formed cells to necrose from imperfect nutrition causes the formation of the central slough or dead core of tlie gumma. When the process is more widely diffused this tendency to local degeneration is not marked, but special complications attend and follow this connective- tissue overgrowth. Fournier describes two main varieties, superficial sclerosing glossitis and deep or parenchymatous glossitis : in both the essential pathological change is the same ; it is only the extension of the process into the deeper parts of the tongue in the latter form which causes any difference. In the superficial form the main change is in the connective tissue subjacent to the epithelium, and leads to the development of flat plate-like masses beneath the epithelium. The latter is soon affected ; proliferating abnormally at first under the stimulus of the infection, its nutrition becomes impaired as the inevitable contraction of the newly formed connective tissue supervenes, and there is a ready tendency to ulceration. Further, in its contraction the fibrous tissue causes disfigurement of the tongue surface, and the formation of the 71