3 MAMMARY LYMPHATICS Moreover, the tliinner the muscular layer which separates the primary growth from the pleural cavity, the greater the probability of early pleural invasion. Thus, in outlying mammary growths the prognosis is worse than in the case of growths which are separated from the underlying ribs by the thickness of the great pectoral muscle. Portions of the glandular tissue of the breast are sometimes found beneath the pectoral fascia, in the substance of the great pectoral muscle. Blood supply. — The arteries which supply the mammary gland are branches of the internal mammary, long thoracic, superior thoracic, and perforating branches from the second, third, and fourth intercostal arteries. It has been recently shown that the important perforating branches of the internal mammary artery for the most part turn round the margin of the breast and spread out upon its superficial aspect before penetrating its substance. Thus, the breast may be extensively stripped up from the pectoral muscle without interfering with its blood supply—a fact of surgical importance (see p. 40). Lymphatic vessels.—The breast is richly supplied with lymphatic vessels. Each lobule possesses its own system of minute lymphatic capillaries which come into close relation with the acini. Many of the lymphatic vessels of the breast pass into, or communicate with, the pectoral lymphatic plexus, which lies in the pectoral fascia in immediate contact with the posterior surface of the mamma. On the anterior surface of the breast a plexus of large lymphatic vessels is present beneath the skin of the areola (subareolar plexus of Sappey). There can be no doubt that the normal lymph drainage of the breast flows almost exclusively to the axillary glands of the same side. Large lymphatic trunks connect the pectoral lymphatic plexus and the subareolar plexus with the lower glands upon the internal wall of the axilla. It is, however, a mistake to regard the pectoral lymphatic plexus as an anatomical entity. It is in reality merely a conventional subdivision of the deep fascial lymphatic plexus (Fig. 251), whose net- work of intercommunicating channels forms a single system investing the entire body. The unity of this plexus is a fact of capital importance in the pathology of breast cancer, for it allows the indefinite spread of the process of permeation (see p. 60). This great plexus is divisible by the median plane of the body and by two horizontal planes, passing through the umbilicus and the clavicles respectively, into six " catch- ment areas," three on each side, which drain respectively into the cervical, the axillary, and the inguinal glands. Within each area a special set of trunk lyttiphatics arises from the plexus and converges on the corresponding set of glands. These trunk vessels are of such a size that fine particles, such as cancer cells, may be swept along them by the current, 1o lodge in the corresponding glands. But in