THE PERITONEUM 57'^ B. LOCALIZED INTRAPERITONEAL SUPPURATION Localized collections of pus within the peritoneal cavity may result from a large number of different causes. The commonest variety is the localized appendix abscess ; others are due to disease of the female pelvic organs, to slow leakage from a gastric or duo- denal ulcer, to inflammatory processes around a cancerous growth of the intestine, and to disease of the gall-bladder, bile-ducts, or pancreas ; others are those already described as " residual" abscesses, which may occur in any part of the peritoneal cavity after the subsidence of a diffuse peritonitis ; whilst others, again, are due to the chronic forms of tuberculous or pneumococcal peritonitis, to be described later. Suppurative epiploitis constitutes still another variety of localized abscess. The situations in which such abscesses tend to form have already been indicated in describing the anatomy of the peritoneal compart- ments ; but it not infrequently happens that adhesions alter the course of a tracking collection of pus, and that perforation of the peri- toneum forming the abscess wall may allow the pus to escape into the retroperitoneal tissue, so as to form an abscess in situations uninflu- enced by the anatomical disposition of the peritoneum. In addition to the symptoms of the disease from which the abscess originated, those presented by a localized intraperitoneal abscess are abdominal pain and tenderness, together with toxaemia. The course may be very slow and the diagnosis difficult. In the simpler cases a firm and definite intra-abdominal tumour may be felt; others have to be diagnosed by the general symptoms, added to those of pressure effects upon neighbouring structures such as the base of the lung. One variety of localized abscess must be considered separately, namely, subphrenic or subdiaphragmatic abscess. Subphrenic Abscess Definition.'—A collection of pus beneath the diaphragm, lying on the right side between the liver and diaphragm, and on the left between the diaphragm and the stomach and spleen. The term is often used to include abscesses situated in the right kidney well, when the pus is really subhepatic rather than subphrenic. Causation.—The possible causes of subphrenic abscess are very numerous, for almost any intra-abdominal lesion may give rise to it, whilst occasionally the spread is in the reverse direction, suppuration above the diaphragm giving rise to infection below. The most common causes are perforation of an ulcer of the stomach or duodenum, suppurative conditions of the liver and its ducts, and appendicitis. Renal, pancreatic, and traumatic suppurations are occasional causes.