72 THE BREAST assigned by the patient for seeking advice. Many of these signs imply an advanced degree of dissemination, so that the disease is hopeless when first seen. The causes of this regrettable fact are feelings of delicacy, dread of operation, and the insidious and painless course of the disease in its earlier stages. The signs of breast cancer will now be separately described, one by one, in the order of their appearance. The order is, however, far from being constant. Presence of a lump in the breast. — The primary growth usually forms a definite locahzed lump in the breast, characteristic- ally single, of stony hardness, palpable with the flat hand, and fixed in the substance of the breast. In the early stage the small lump may be mobile and indistinguishable from an innocent tumour, and all other signs of carcinoma may be absent. It is the surgeon's ideal to detect and remove the carcinoma in this stage, and in all such doubtful cases the diagnosis should be completed without delay by an exploratory operation, especially if the patient is over 30. Dimpling or retraction of the skin.—This is one of the ear- liest signs of the carcinomatous nature of a small lump in the breast, and perhaps the most valuable. Dimpling is sometimes obvious to the eye (Fig. 277), but careful manipulation and close observation are necessary to appreciate the slighter degrees, which are of great value and significance. The finger and thumb placed firmly upon the skin on opposite sides of the growth are to be slowly approximated. In carcinoma the convex fold of skin wliich is thrown up by this manoeuvre presents upon its summit a slight and very shallow cir- cular depression; or a definite fold may fail to make its appearance, and may be replaced by a number of ill-defined wrinldes. Another method of demonstrating retraction is to push the whole breast in the direction of the area of sldn to be tested. Owing to its attachments to the underlying tumour a local depression appears upon this area of skin. Adhesion of the skin—In the earlier stages of dimpling the skin still moves over the subjacent growth; but later, actual adhesion becomes manifest over the centre of the growth. The fig-shin or feau d'orange appearance is now usually seen {see Fig. 275 and p. 65). Adhesion to the pectoral fascia.—Early cancerous growths move freely with the breast over the subjacent pectoral fascia ; but in a comparatively early stage, especially if the growth is deeply situated in the breast, signs of fixation of the growth to the fascia become manifest. Careful attention to detail is necessary to demon- strate tliis sign. Either by the patient's voluntary contraction of the great pectoral, or better by passively elevating the arm, the fibres of this muscle are made taut. The growth is grasped in the hand