GASTRIC CARCINOMA: SYMPTOMS 383 As the glands at the liilum of the liver merely receive vessels from the liver for transmission to the right suprapancreatic and biliary groups, and have no vessels directly connecting with any gland-group receiving lymphatics from the stomach, they must become infected in a retrograde manner or from a secondary growth in the liver. Henoch, in 1863, first recorded enlargement of the left supra- clavicular glands in gastric carcinoma. An enlargement of these glands is said to take place in 3 per cent, of cases. Involvement of the right group is a rare event. Vascular infection.—This is usually through the veins of the portal system, and produces secondary growths in the liver. It is most common in carcinoma of the body of the stomach ; carcinoma of the pyloric end tends to aiiect the liver by direct spread. Rarely, the systemic veins disseminate the growth, either through direct invasion of the inferior vena cava, or via the thoracic duct or liver. Summary.—Glandular invasion is early and almost invariable, while next in order of frequency secondary deposits are found in the liver, great omentum, and pancreas. Symptoms.—These will vary with the situation of the growth. In carcinoma of the pylorus or cardiac orifice, symptoms of obstruc- tion appear early ; but in carcinoma of the prepyloric portion the growth does not produce obstruction until late, and the symptoms are therefore less marked. The cases can be divided, according to symptoms, into three groups: (1) Following previous gastric disease. (2) Occurring in previously healthy persons. (3) " Latent." 1. This will comprise at least 50 per cent, of the cases, and in many instances there will be the typical history of chronic gastric ulcer—attacks, at irregular intervals, of pain after food, relieved, it may be, by vomiting. It may be noticed that in the last attack the pain is not so readily relieved by rest or vomiting, becomes almost constant, assumes a gnawing character, and wakes the patient at night. There may also be a distaste for food, particularly meat, which was not present in the previous attacks. In some few cases no change in the character of the symptoms is noticed, but at the operation for supposed chronic gastric ulcer carcinoma is fomid. Occasionally the history is of a gastric illness, with symptoms of ulceration several years before, followed by apparently perfect recovery. 2. In tliis group the onset may be sudden, an acute hsematemesis occurring in a previously healthy person, succeeded by a sense of gastric discomfort. In other cases the symptoms follow, according to the patient, an error in diet a short time before. But as a rule the onset is more gradual. As Brinton wrote : " An elderly person