THE BLADDER 870 according to the proportion of fibrous stroma. It consists of alveoli of varying sizes, filled with spheroidal cells. Malignant growths of the bladder remain for a long time localized to the viscus. Perivesical spread may be extensive, and early penetra- tion is a feature of some growths. Adhesions to the vagina, uterus, rectum, and intestines form, and perforation may occur. Spread along the lymphatics follows the lymphatic trunks. In the latest stages metastatic deposits are found in the lungs, pleura, liver, spleen, and kidneys. Symptoms.—Hsematuria is the most frequent (90 2 per cent.) and the earliest symptom. A little blood appears at the end of mic- turition ; at first intermittent, it later becomes constant, and there may be intercurrent severe attacks of haemorrhage. Frequent micturition occurs in 68 per cent, of cases, and may be the initial symptom. It is nocturnal as well as diurnal, and is usually due to cystitis, although it may occur without cystitis and with a clear urine. Pain is due to cystitis, to obstruction by blood clot, or to pressure on nerves. It is felt along the urethra, at the end of the penis, in the suprapubic region and groin, in the perineum, anus, and down the thighs or along the sciatic nerve. The urine sometimes contains a persistent excess of epithelial bladder cells, and portions of the growth may be passed. Flat or limpet-shell-shaped phosphatic concretions may form on ulcerated patches and be discharged with the urine. Emaciation is present in advanced cases. IMagnosis.—There are two clinical types—(1) cystitic (40 per cent.), (2) hsematuric (60 per cent.). Cases belonging to the cystitic type may be mistaken for stone, simple enlargement of the prostate, or malignant disease of the prostate. The diagnosis is made by rectal examination and cystoscopy. The hsematuric type must be distin- guished from simple papilloma or tuberculous disease by examination of the urine for the tubercle bacillus and by cystoscopy. Course and prognosis.—The average duration of life after the first appearance of symptoms is under three years. Septic cystitis and ascending pyelonephritis is the usual cause of death. Radical operations in the early stages give an increasingly favourable prospect of cure {see below). Treatment.—Radical operation should be undertaken if the growth is confined to the bladder and the patient sufficiently robust. It is contra-indicated by renal, pulmonary, or circulatory inadequacy. The radical operations are—(1) resection of the bladder wall, (2) cystectomy. 1. Resection is preferred wherever possible, as the mortality is 10 per cent, compared with 46 per cent, in cystectomy. The follow-