COMPLICATIONS OF GASTRO JEJUNOSTOMY 413 the normal growth and development of children who have had gastro- jejunostomy done in infancy for infantile pyloric stenosis. It has been shown by the investigations of Paterson on the absorption of fat and of nitrogen from a mixed diet after gastro-jejunostomy, that the percentage absorbed, although very slightly below the average, is within the limits observed in healthy individuals. Complications.—The following complications may occur after gastro-jejunostomy, the majority being due to faulty technique : (1) Hsemorrhage ; (2) regurgitant vomiting ; (3) peptic ulcer of jejunum ; (4) intestinal obstruction (internal hernia) ; (5) diarrhoea ; (6) con- traction of opening. 1. Several cases have been recorded recently in which severe haemorrhage has followed the operation of gastro-jejunostomy; in one fatal case the source of the bleeding was discovered to be a vein in the gastric mucous membrane. This has led some to advocate the abandonment of the use of clamps during the operation, on the ground that they prevent the surgeon from seeing vessels that may be bleeding; others advise that the clamps be loosened after the posterior row of stitches has been inserted. Hsemorrhage is due to faulty application of the inner suture, probably in that it fails to penetrate all the coats of the stomach at one spot ; this may easily occur if too much or too little mucous membrane is removed. It can be prevented by careful suturing. The only instance of severe haematemesis that has occurred in my cases was some years ago, before I used clamps. Three hours after operation the patient vomited about a pint of blood, but no untoward result followed. The hsemorrhage may in a few cases come from the ulcer itself ; this may be avoided by infolding the ulcer. 2. Regurgitant vomiting (vicious circle).—This is rarely met with after the modern no-loop operation. It is due in most cases to faulty technique. In the early days of gastro-jejunostomy it was a much-dreaded and very fatal complication. Various theories were at one time put forward with regard to it. At first it was thought to be due to the presence of bile in the stomach, but this has been disproved both by animal experiment and as the result of operation. In a case of ruptured duodenum, Moynihan closed both ends and joined the jejunum to the stomach. All the bile and pancreatic juice had to pass through tlie stomach, but no vomiting ensued. It is the result of intestinal obstruction, and is due, in most cases, to leaving a loop of jejunum between the flexure and the anastomosis. This becomes " bile-logged," and the fluid, unable to escape, passes backwards into the stomach. In other cases the weight of the loop