AFTER-TREATMENT OF STRANGULATION 655 soon as tlie patient's condition admits of it, and salol in 5-grain doses administered. The semi-recumbent position (Fig. 466, p. 639) should be adopted, and the expectoration of fgeculent sputum encouraged by the use of ammonium carbonate in 5-gi'ain doses, or other suitable drug. When resection and anastomosis has been performed, it is in the liighest degree important to prevent any distension of the bowel; this is best accompHshed by the use of the soft rectal tube passed high and retained in situ, or by the occasional use of enemata of turpentine or asafoetida. The feeding of these patients is not, as a rule, difficult. Where no damage to the bowel has occurred it may be carried out on ordinary lines. When resection and anastomosis has been done, nothing but fluids should be given for at least forty-eight hours. Albumin water, beef-juice, egg-flip, wliite wine whey. Brand's jelly, veal or cliicken jelly, junket, calf's-foot jelly, etc., may be given; dextrose solution per rectum is in itself a food, and has a very high calorific value. On the fourth day, if the patient is progressing well, Benger's food, pounded fish or chicken, etc., may be given in small quantities frequently. Full diet should not be allowed for a fortnight from the time of operation. Opium and morphia are best avoided ; they mask symptoms and cause constipation. Pain must be relieved, if possible, by aspirin in 10-grain doses, and sleej) provided by such drugs as veronal .5 gr., chloralamide 30 gr., or trional 20 gr.. When the case has ended in the estabhshment of an intestinal fistula, the bowels may be cleared out at once, and feeding started as soon as the stomach has been cleansed and the sickness has ceased. In the event of recovery the Paul's tube will become detached in about three days, and the question will then arise as to the reconstitution of the bowel. This, imless the stoma is liigh in the canal (jejunum), should not be attempted before the strength is recovered, since there is a danger of union faiUng owing to weakness and anajmia. In the higher regions the attempt must be made at the earliest possible date by simple suture without detachment of the skin union ; failing this, detachment should be done, and the lips of the bowel womid should be inverted by two rows of Lembert's sutures. Where this fails, or where there is a marked " spur," resection and anastomosis affords the only chance of arresting the rapid emaciation which occurs. The abdominal wound should not be closed in these cases, as the tissues are obviously infected ; it should be allowed to close by granulation, any subsequent hernia being cured by filigree-implantation. After-complications of kelotomy for strangulated hernia.—1. Septic broncho-penumonia is not infrequent when