HERNIA 588 in obesity of the patient, and depends chiefly on interference with the venous return from the omentum, since the most marked examples are met with where this organ is adherent to the neck of the sac ; at the same time it is not entirely due to oedema, distension of vessels, nor to intrusion of fresh omentum, but in part arises from actual hypertrophy. Adhesions in hernial sacs may concern— 1. The sac only.—Fibrous bands, the result of old inflammation, are at times found passing from one side to the other; these may subsequently become stretched and form " bridles," just as they do in the abdominal cavity. Their only surgical importance is that they predispose to strangu- lation, and, especially if they cross the neck, are apt to ensnare a loop of bowel when reduction is attempted, thus giving rise to one of the varieties of " reduction en masse " (p. 644). They may occur simply as elevated cicatricial bands on the inner surface. Again, an actual septum may be pro- duced by these adhesions, the sac being thus divided into an upper and a lower compartment, the latter of which, filling with fluid, becomes a hydrocele of the sac. 2. The sac ivall and the contents.—When adhesions occur between these two they commonly result from inflammation of the omentum. Bowel is rarely found adherent to the sac unless affected by inflammation arising in the omentum, or unless itself diseased. Thus a loop of bowel containing tuberculous ulcers, an appendix when inflamed, or a portion of large bowel inflamed as the result of stercoral ulceration, may acquire adhesions to the sac at any point. Similarly the ovary and Fallopian tube may become adherent to the wall. 3. The contents alone.—Earely, adhesions occur in the sac without affecting its walls. The contents may be so bound together as to prevent reduction, the cause being, as before, the presence of inflamed omentum, etc. The intestine, when long retained in a sac by adhesions, frequently undergoes marked hypertrophy. In certain cases, owing to some constriction at the neck of the sac, not sufficient to cause actual strangulation, it may become permanently narrowed at one or more points by a ring-like atrophy of the muscular wall and subsequent fibrosis at these points. In umbilical and ventral hernias the bowel may become adherent to the thinned-out cutaneo-peritoneal sac, and may then be affected by the sloughing above mentioned, a faecal or intestinal fistula resulting. Occasionally an appendix or an ovary occupying a hernial sac undergoes an attack of acute inflammation, and if the presence of