95° THE TESTIS provocation, and often with incomplete erection of tlie penis and a minimum of pleasurable feeling ; but this is a condition of irritability of the sexual apparatus with frequent emissions, not spermatorrhoea. Some patients also suffer from frequent nocturnal emissions ; but here again the term spermatorrhoea is not applicable, erection and orgasm being present. The alleged disease is one that is firmly believed in by the laity, and the following conditions frequently give rise to the fear that the patient is suffering from a dreaded disease which only exists in his imagination :— 1. Escape of a Httle prostatic fluid after sexual excitement accom- panied by complete or partial erection of the penis. 2. Frequent nocturnal emissions. 3. Escape of muco-pus in a patient who has a general or localized urethritis, prostatitis or vesiculitis, or Cowperitis. 4. Deposits of urates or phosphates from the urine, more especially the latter, which sometimes appear as a " milky " deposit at the end of micturition. 5. The normal mucous cloud in urine. Amongst the insane, complaints of spermatorrhoea are frequently made, and they may be attributed by the patient to past masturba- tion or sexual excesses; but the condition only exists in the diseased ■ imagination. To sum up, the term spermatorrhoea is a misnomer, and should be discarded from medical literature. Nocturnal Emissions The occurrence of emission of semen during sleep may be either physiological or pathological. In healthy adult men, living well as regards food and drink, and leading a continent life, nocturnal emissions accompanied by voluptuous dreams and erection of the penis are natural if they do not occur more frequently than once in ten days or a fortnight, and are not accompanied by any bad reaction on the general health. They are pathological if they occur more frequently —for example, several nights in succession or several times in the same night; if they are not accompanied by full erection of the penis ; or if they cause the patient to feel weak, irritable, and easily tired. Pathological nocturnal emissions usually follow sexual excesses, habitual masturbation, irritation from a tight prepuce or inflamed prostate, or unhealthy sexual excitement; or they may be the result of organic disease such as myelitis, tabes dorsalis, or general paralysis of the insane. Treatment.-—If, on careful consideration of the history and the effects of the emissions, the condition is considered physiological, the