473 CHRONIC OBSTRUCTION When the small intestine is chronically distended, the contracting coils stand out as a series of tubular prominences running across the abdomen, suggesting the appearance of the rungs of a ladder, or a set of organ pipes—"ladder" or "organ-pipe pattern" (Fig. 406). When the distension affects principally the large intestine, the different parts of the colon may be recognized to be distended, but they seldom exhibit peristaltic waves so distinctly as does the small intestine (Fig. 407). These waves of peri- stalsis are accompanied by attacks of colicky pain, and often by loud rumbling or gurgling sounds, spoken of as " stenosis noises" or " borborygmi," and on palp- ation the contracting loop of bowel is felt to become firm and rigid. Gradually the symptoms become more severe and continuous. The digestion is seriously disturbed, the tongue and mouth become coated, the breath has an offensive ftecal odour, and the patient is poisoned by toxins absorbed from the stagnant and decomposing contents of the gut. Symp- toms of collapse are pre- sent only when there is a marked degree of toxa?mia. Finally, death resiilts, either from the toxo?mia and exhaustion induced by it, or from the sudden occurrence (if perforation and peritonitis. Diagnosis.—There is never any difficulty in recognizing that the patient is suffering from chronic obstruction, but it may not be easy to form an opinion as to the cause. A careful analysis of all the clinical features, including the history, usually throws some light on the question. The following are among the possible causes : In the child: (1) Adhesions associated with tuberculous or other forms of peritonitis, (2) tuberculous disease of the bowel or mesenteric glands followed by cicatricial stenosis, (3) chronic forms of intussuscep- tion, (4) Hirschsprung's disease. In the adult : (1) Peritoneal adhesions, (2) cicatricial strictures, (3) malignant disease, (4) ileo- Fig. 407.—Dilatation of pelvic colon above a stricture. [Frovi Trrjt's's Intestinal Oi'st) iti tion,")