LINGUAL CARCINOMA 211 is inoperable, since, even if only the primary growth can be dealt with, death from glandular recurrence is infinitely less painful. The rapid spread of lingual carcinoma has been explained by Heidenhain as due to the contractions of the lingual muscles, which are constantly forcing on the cancer cells; but, apart from the glands, dissemination to a wide extent is uncommon, probably because the patient dies from the lingual or glandular disease before extensive metastases can form. Diagnosis.—A certain diagnosis in cases of early carcinoma of the tongue is impossible without the aid of microscopical examination. In the more advanced cases, the pain, induration, thickened epithelial margin, fixation, and glandular enlargement, all indicate malignant disease. The chief difficulty will be experienced in distinguishing between carcinoma on the one hand, and a chroiiic ulcer from irritation, gummatous ulcer, and perhaps more rarely tuberculosis, on the other. A careful examination should be made of the mouth, to see whether a local cause, such as a rough carious tooth or an ill-fitting tooth- plate, exists. Careful inc^uiries into the history should be made, and the lungs should be thoroughly examined. If tliis investigation does not throw any light upon the case, no time should be wasted before making a careful microscopical examination of the margin of the growth ; for this purpose it may be sufficient to snip off a small piece after the part has been painted with a 5 per cent, solution of cocaine, but I am of the opinion that it is far wiser to cut out a fair piece of growth and adjoining tissue. I have so frequently seen the futility of trying to form an opinion from a small piece of shrunken tissue. A mere scraping of the growth is, in my view, insufficient, even though it show a number of cell-nests; in order to be certain we must study the epithelial changes in relation to tlie adjoining con- nective tissues. It has been argued that such an examination tends to disseminate the growth, and to excite it into abnormal activity. Personally I place no reliance on this statement, since, once it has been decided to examine a doubtful growth, a radical operation can be undertaken almost at once if the preparation of the section is hurried. I should regret it extremely if I had performed one of the extensive modern operations for cancer of the tongue on insufficient groimds. On the other hand, no time should be wasted in trying potassium iodide, unless indeed the clinical condition of the ulcer and the past history should strongly favour syphilis. It is, unfortunately, a common line of treatment to combine the administration of iodide of potash with the application of antiseptic lotions to the ulcer. Under this combination cancerous ulcers will improve, the fetor and pain diminish, and even the induration will subside to some