3o6 THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM differential diagnosis between affections of the gall-bladder and those of the stomach or duodenum. Physical examination.—Special examinations are necessary in many cases of stomach disease. These should not supersede the routine methods employed to investigate disease in other parts of the abdomen. The age and general appearance of the patient must be taken into consideration. The condition of the teeth must be carefully looked to ; it may be found that the symptoms can be accounted for on dental grounds, but in any case no operation on the stomach or intestines should be done, unless in an emergency, until septic stumps have been removed and the mouth rendered as sterile as possible. For the physical examination the patient should be lying com- fortably on a couch with the shoulders a little raised ; the whole of the abdomen and the lower part of the thorax must be imcovered, for many tumours have been overlooked through neglecting this precaution. The hand should never be placed on the abdomen until inspection has been thorough. Note should be made of the general condition of the abdomen and of obvious signs of tumour, localized bidgings, visible peristalsis, skdn cracks, etc.; then special attention directed to the epigastric and left hypochondriac regions, where tumours may be seen descending on respiration which cannot be detected in any other way. The narrow upper abdomen so often present in enteroptosis should not be overlooked. In many cases it is associated with a floating tenth rib, which Stiller considers a stigma of gastric neurosis. Palpation should first be directed towards eliciting the presence of areas of tenderness, superficial or deep, or of muscular rigidity. Search must then be made for a tumour; its position, mobility, and respiratory movement must be investigated, and, when doubt exists, re-examined after inflation of the stomach and occasionally the colon (p. 308). Splashing may be obtained, but is only of importance when found in districts other than those occupied by the normal stomach or when occurring more than three hours after a meal. Peri- stalsis may sometimes be elicited by gently flicking the abdomen. The size of the liver should be noted. The right kidney should always be examined, and if there is any suspicion of gastroptosis the patient should be seen in the erect position. The supraclavicular region on the left side must be palpated for evidence of glandular enlargement. Percussion and auscultation.—It may be possible to mark out by percussion the position of the greater curvature, but it is occasion- ally difficult to distinguish between the note given by the colon and that given by the stomach. Percussion must be light and should be