THE KIDNEY 786 Slender worm-like clots, 10 or 12 in. in length, are sometimes passed, and indicate the kidney or renal pelvis as the source of bleeding. More frequently, however, the clots passed from the ureter are small plugs, ^ in. in length. The blood may be rapidly passed into the bladder and there form irregular masses or flat clots, which indicate the position of coagulation, but not the source of the haemorrhage. Urethral bleeding may form a cast oi the uretlira, which is discharged with the urine. Albumin is present even where the amount of blood is very small. In cases of renal hsematuria, however, the quantity of albumin exceeds the amount corresponding to the admixture of blood. If, on estimation, excess of the albumin over the proportion of 1-6 to 1 of haemoglobin be found, this points to a renal cause of the hsematuria (Newman). In renal haematuria the corpuscles often appear as pale discs almost devoid of colouring matter, while those added to the urine in the lower urinary tract are less changed. Casts of the renal tubules, if present, indicate a renal lesion. Epithelial cells from the kidney, pelvis, and ureter, bladder, or urethra may be dis- covered and help to localize the source of the haemorrhage. The kidneys, ureters, and bladder should be examined by abdominal palpation, and the prostatic and membranous urethra, the prostate, seminal vesicles, bladder base, and lower ureters examined from the rectum. Cystoscopic examination supplies a means of certain localization. The bladder is thus examined for growths or ulcers, and the ureteric orifices for evidences of disease or staining of the efflux. Finally, the ureters should be catheterized, and a sample of urine obtained from each kidney for microscopical examination (p. 780). The diagnosis of the cause of haematuria will be de- scribed under the various diseases, but one form which cannot be referred to any single disease must be discussed here. Essential renal hsematuria.—This name has been given to a group of cases where haematuria has been localized to one kidney. Careful micro- scopical examination of these kidneys frequently gives evidence of some degree of chronic nephritis; this occurs in scattered patches, however, and may therefore easily be overlooked. A few cases have been recorded in which hasmaturia without other symptoms and without albuminuria has been caused by a more extensive unilateral chronic neplu-itis (Poirier, Loumeau). A varicose condition of one or more of the renal papillae as a cause of haematuria has been described by Fenwick, Whitney, Pilcher, and others. Its origin is doubtful; possibly it may result from a patch of interstitial nepliritis similar to the condition just described. Profuse unilateral renal haematuria unaccompanied by other symptoms may be met with as a pre- monitory or early symptom of chronic Bright's disease. Essential hsematuria is spontaneous, strictly unilateral, and is not affected by rest or movement. The blood is abundant and well mixed, and gives the urine a dark, port-wine colour. Clots are very rarely formed. The bleeding may suddenly cease after some weeks or months, and may as suddenly reappear and become persistent. In the intervals no albumin can be detected nor tube casts found. No bacteria are present in the urine. On the affected side there is occasionally a dull aching pain, uninfluenced by move- ment. The kidney is not tender or enlarged. In 13 cases of unilateral symptomless haematuria in which I explored the kidney and removed a portion for examination, the microscope showed cortical patches of fibrosis in all of varying size. Newman has recorded a