200 THE TONGUE Precisely tlie same pathological phenomena will be observed if the lymphatic tissues of a part enlarge to such an extent that the existing lymphatic vessels are unable adequately to drain the region, as if those vessels were the site of an obstruction preventing them from draining in normal circumstances. In some cases a definite injury has preceded the development of macroglossia. Stone records a case of this land. The microscopic appearances have been carefully described by Butlin, to whom we are indebted for the following accurate account:— " If a vertical section be made of a simple lymphangioma, the lymphatic spaces immediately beneath the epithelium are dilated ; by further enlarge- ment the lymph space bulges towards the surface, thinning the epithelium by pressure until only a layer of corneous epithelium covers the surface. The contents of the space are lymph-serous fluid containing numerous white corpuscles. " By extension between the muscular fibres and fusion of the lymph spaces large cysts are formed, so that the portion of the substance of the tongue invaded has a honeycombed look. Around these dilated lymphatic spaces tlu-ee changes take place, and it is in accordance with the relative proportions in which each occurs that the differences found in advanced cases are due. These are—(a) dilatation and new formation of blood-vessels ; (b) inflammatory changes with formation of fibrous tissue ; (c) new growth of lymphadenomatous tissue. " (a) The capillary loops between the vesicles in the simple form develop into arteries, thin-walled, coiled, and of a considerable size. The veins also increase in number and become dilated. Then the blood-vessels rupture into the large lymphatic spaces, which become distended, partly by blood- clot, partly by circulating blood. In this way is produced the cavernous form of macroglossia (Barker, Hutchinson, jun.). " (b) The dilatation of the lymph space is accompanied by inflammation. Small round cells infiltrate the connective tissues, and tough fibrous tissue increases and slowly surrounds the spaces. The inflammation is subject to sharp fluctuations, a marked increase accompanying the extravasation of blood ; then it subsides, but to recur again and again. With each attack there is a further formation of fibrous tissue, which permanently enlarges the portion of the tongue affected, and gives the enlarged tongue a tough or almost wooden feeling, varying with the amouiat of oedema in the fibrous tissue. " The fibrous tissue presses aside the muscular fibres and causes them to degenerate, so that, whilst the tongue enlarges, the amount of muscular substance is being continually reduced, until it disappears altogether from the affected portion of the tongue. The section shows simply fibrous tissue with a variable number of sjjaces containing either lymph or blood. " (c) Small round cells collect in the connective tissue between the muscular fibres, amongst the lymph spaces ; and between the cells retiform tissue may be met with. These small round cells are not replaced by fibrous tissue, but a new growth goes on slowly until lymphadenomatous masses are produced. A macroglossia may even terminate by the development of a small round-celled or lympho-sarcoma." Clinical features.—The first symptom which attracts atten- tion is an increase in the sensitiveness of the organ, accompanied