283 OBSTRUCTION FROM TUMOURS Recently, attempts have been made to bring a segregated loop of jejunum up under the skin, and by anastomosing it with the oesophagus above the stricture, and with the stomach below, to reconstitute a gullet. Non-Malignant Tumours These comprise polypi, fibromas, myomas, lipomas, warts, and retention cysts (mucous glands). All of them are so rare as to be of little surgical interest. The polypi are perhaps the least uncommon. They usually occur in the upper j^art of the oesophagus in elderly males. They are fibromas, and generally contain fat in their structure. The tumour may develop a long stalk, and cases have been published in which the polyjji protruded into the pharynx and could be seen through the mouth. The pedicle is generally attached to the anterior wall of the oesophagus below the cricoid. They may give rise to no symptoms, but if large may cause dysphagia, and if protruded upwards may induce attacks of dyspnoea and alteration in the voice. They are treated by removal, after division of the stalk, by means of a suitable snare. Pol}'pi have been removed through the mouth. The tumour is ejected and held in position, the pedicle ligatured and cut through. If this be found impossible, it should be removed through an cesophagotomy opening. If situated in the lower portion of the CBSophagus (an uncommon site) it is possible that the tumour might be removed with the help of the oesophagoscope (von Hacker). Malignant Tumours Carcinoma of the CEsofhagus It has been estimated that about 5 per cent, of all carcinomas arise in the mucous membrane of the oesophagus. The growth most commonly begins in the epithelium, and is a typical squamous-celled carcinoma. Less frequently the epitlielium of the glands in the mucous membrane undergoes carcinomatous change and develops a tumour composed of cylindrical cells (Franke). In 30 cases of malignant disease of the oesophagus, Perry and Shaw found 28 squamous-celled epitheliomas and 2 sarcomas. A colloid growth is occasionallv met with. In its early stages the carcinoma is limited to the mucous membrane, and involves only a small portion of the wall of the tube ; it tends to spread along the surface of the mucous membrane, either trans- versely, so as to involve the whole circumference in an annular form (Fig. 357), or longitudinally, giving rise to a growth of large extent (Fig. 358). The former condition is more commonly found.