386 THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM tested by Bsbach's reagent, in the washings of a fasting stomach is in favour of carcinoma. These are also late signs. 3. As already pointed out, malignant disease of the stomach may be latent, progressive loss of weight perhaps being the first sign of its presence. In other cases, ascites or a tumour due to secondary growth is first noticed. Penwick was able to collect from the records of the London Hospital, during the twenty years preceding 1902, 14 cases in which " the presence of ascites constituted the sole indication of cancer of the stomach." In at least half of these there was no evidence to connect the ascites with a malignant growth of the stomach. Cases with ascites fall into two groups—{a) those in which the ascites is the first symptom seriously to attract the patient's attention, and {b) those in which, following indefinite abdominal symptoms, there is a sudden onset of acute pain and swelling. Four cases have been under my care ; in all the ascites had been preceded by vague abdominal symptoms of which no notice was taken, in 2 the onset of ascites was gradual, in 2 so acute that the diagnosis of a perforative lesion was made. In cases in which metastases call attention to the disease the secondary growths are usually in the liver ; but a malignant ovarian tumour may be the fijst sign for which the patient comes under observation. Perforation may be acute or subacute. Acute perforation takes place in about 3 per cent, of cases, but occasionally a subacute per- foration with the formation of a perigastric abscess occurs. One example of each was present in 87 cases imder my care. Fistulas may open externally or into the colon, rarely into the duodenum (see p. 402). Thrombosis of veins may occur in the late stage. Trousseau wrote : " Should you, when in doubt as to the nature of an affection of the stomach, observe a vein becoming inflamed in the arm or leg,, you may dispel your doubt and pronounce in a positive manner that there is a cancer." Fever is present in nearly a third of the cases at some period during the course. Jaundice is stated to occur in 13 per cent, of cases (Fenwick),. and is usually due to extension of the growth to the head of the pancreas. Diagnosis At the present time a certain diagnosis at the most favourable period for removal is impossible. All the signs which make for a positive diagnosis are late signs. Help may be expected in the future from the use of the gastro- scope, and it may be that examination of the blood will be of service.