866 THE BLADDER 5,000), iodoform or guaiacol in liquid parafiBn (5 per cent.), gomenol (5 to 20 per cent.), picric acid (| to 1 per cent.) have been used. Treatment by direct application of nitrate of silver, etc., may be made in either sex through Luys' direct cystoscope. In the very rare cases of a solitary ulcer it is excised by suprapubic cystotomy. In other cases ulcers have been curetted, or cauterized with silver nitrate, chloride of zinc, and other caustics, and the bladder drained. SYPHILIS Syphilitic disease of the bladder is very rare. In secondary syphilis symptoms of acute or chronic cystitis may develop. On cystoscopic examina- tion there is congestion and swelling of the mucous membrane, and multiple small superficial ulcers with indurated edge may be present. In tertiary sypliilis there may be gummata or ulceration of the bladder wall. The gummata may form papillomas which are indistinguishable from other forms of papilloma except that they disappear under antisyphilitic treatment. In other cases the gumma is a round nodular swelling covered with ulcerated mucous membrane. The sjrmptoms resemble those of new growth. The lesions disappear rapidly under antisypliilitic treatment. ACTINOMYCOSIS Actinomycosis very rarely affects the bladder, and is always secondary to intestinal actinomycosis, spreading directly to the bladder from the appendix or rectum. Extensive perivesical inflammation is present, and there is usually a perivesical abscess. The symptoms are those of cystitis, and an indurated mass is found in the perivesical tissue and round the appendix or rectum. The diagnosis can only be made by the discovery of the yellow actinomycotic granules in the urine. The treatment consists in administering large doses of iodide of potash and opening collections of pus if they exist. The bladder is washed with urinary antiseptics. TUMOURS Men are more frequently affected by tumours of the bladder than women, usually between the ages of 40 and 60. Vesical growths are rare in children and are of the connective-tissue varieties. Secondary growths result from the spread of malignant growths from the pelvic organs. In the rare papillomatous tumours of the renal pelvis or ureter new growths may become implanted on the bladder mucous membrane or spread from the ureteric orifice. Epithelial Growths : Papilloma—Villous Papilloma Pathology.—These tumours are covered with villi, and are either sessile or pedunculated. They vary in size from a split pea to a Tangerine orange, and are single (60 per cent.) or multiple (40 per cent.). They may affect any part of the bladder, but are usually situated at the base, behind and to the outer side of one ureteric orifice and frequently concealing it. Although rarely situated on the trigone,