THE PENIS 978 partial amputation with removal of tlie inguinal glands is all that is necessary; but with more extensive disease, and in any case of doubt as to getting clear of the disease, the whole penis should be removed, the crura being detached from the arch of the pubes. The urethra is then brought out into the perineum and fixed just in front of the anus. It is advisable, if this operation is done, to remove the testes at the same time, as this makes micturition more comfortable and prevents excoriation and eczema of the scrotum. Removal of the testes, however, adds to the gravity of the operation, which has frequently to be done in very elderly people debilitated by septic absorption and a fetid discharge. The most difficult part of the operative treatment is the thorough removal of all the inguinal glands, and not infrequently part of the femoral vein must be excised to make the operation complete. Prognosis.—^If the case is seen early and a thorough operation is done, the prognosis is fair, as metastases in distant organs are unusual; but the cases are rarely seen very early, as the condition causes so little pain and discomfort. Sarcoma This condition, which may be either primary or secondary, is rare. In the primary cases the growth, which is most often a spindle-celled sarcoma, usually springs from the fibrous sheaths of the corpora cavernosa, and is confined to them for a long time. The penis becomes hard and swollen, and often very painful, whilst interference with micturition or a blood-stained discharge from the urethra may occur. The only treatment is early amputation, with removal of the glands in both groins. OTHER CONDITIONS OF THE PENIS HERPES Both catarrhal herpes and herpes zoster may attack the penis, the former being by far the more common disease. Herpes zoster may follow the course of the ilio-inguinal nerve, and does not differ in its course and symptomatology from herpes zoster in other parts of the body. It is extremely rare in the penis. Catarrhal herpes is chiefly seen in the prepuce and glans penis (herpes progenitalis), and the exact cause is unknown. It has been attributed to syphilis, other venereal infections, sexual excess, gout, and other causes, but without much evidence. The disease usually appears shortly after coitus or nocturnal emissions. Symptoms.—The patient first complains of an itching or burning sensation on the prepuce or glans penis, and a patch of erythema