86o THE BLADDER perineum the wound should be carefully examined and free drainage provided. If symptoms of peritonitis supervene the abdomen should be opened. CYSTITIS Inflammation of the bladder is due to the combination of a bacterial infection with some factor producing lowered resistance. Rarely, a virulent type of bacteria may alone cause cystitis, but usually some predisposing factor collaborates by producing congestion or injury of the bladder wall, or stagnation of the urine ; the most common are masturbation, affections of the female genital organs, pregnancy, stricture, enlarged prostate, calcidus, foreign bodies, malignant growths, operations upon the bladder, atony from nervous disease. Bacteriology.—Mixed infection is frequent. The Bacillus coli occurs more frequently than any other bacterium, and is often found in pure culture. The following bacteria may also occur, alone or in mixed infections, viz. streptococcus, staphylococcus, proteus, gono- coccus, pneumococcus of Frankel and of Friedlander, Bacillus pyo- cyaneus, and the typhoid bacillus. In chronic cystitis, anaerobic bacteria are frequently present. The bacteriology varies during the course of either an acute or a chronic attack. The urine is acid in cystitis due to Bacillus coli and the gonococcus. . Infection may occur from the kidney by bacteria borne in the urine or from the urethra by direct spread (gonorrhoea) or by the passage of instruments ; bacteria may also reach the bladder through a cystotomy womid or a fistula, or by the rupture of an abscess or the formation of a fistula with the bowel. Pathological anatomy and cystoscopic appear- ances.—The whole surface of the bladder is seldom involved in acute cystitis. The base is frequently affected alone, or, less often, an area of cystitis is situated at the apex or some other part of the organ. Numerous patches may be distributed over the bladder. In severe cystitis and in chronic cystitis the whole surface is inflamed. The capillary vessels are engorged, the mucous membrane becomes reddened, spongy or woolly, and the outline of the vessels is obscured. The surface is bright red, and the mucous membrane is thrown into stiff folds and ridges, with shreds of muco-pus or desquamated epithelium adhering to it. Haemorrhages into the subepithelial tissues may occur. If the hsemorrhages are numerous the condition is known as haemorrhagic cystitis. In bullous cystitis the surface is covered with yellow semitransparent bullae. Small closely grouped granules in the inflamed mucous mem- brane are characteristic of follicvdar cystitis. In cystic cystitis there are yellow sago-grain-like follicles which are either scattered or grouped