RECTAL ULCERATION: TREATMENT 703 of treatment. Superficial ulcers of comparatively small size may be excised and the margins of the mucosa sutured. If the ulceration is superficial and involves only the anal canal, or at most the lower inch of the rectum, it may be possible to excise the diseased mucosa—White- head's operation (p. 680). This operation has, however, a very limited sphere of practicability, as ulceration in this region generally responds to more simple methods of treatment. It must be insisted that all the diseased mucosa should be removed and healthy mucosa sutured to the skin of the anal margin, or success cannot be anticipated. When ulceration involves the higlier bowel and extends more deeply, the rectum in whole or in part may be excised by a methcd similar to that for excision of a cancerous rectum, save that the perirectal tissues need not be removed (p. 721). Should the ulceration extend to the pelvic colon (as determined by laparotomy), excision is still possible by the combined abdomino-perineal operation (p. 723). Excision is only practicable when the whole diseased area can be removed, the sphincter muscle and its nerve supply preserved, and healthy bowel sutured to healthy bowel or to the skin of the anal margin without undue tension. It is contra-indicated when perirectal suppuration, sinuses, and fistulse are present. At all times it is a serious operation, and one not to be lightly undertaken. Its severity is increased in the enfeebled subjects of chronic ulceration, and the difficulties of the operation are magnified by the perirectal infiltration which is often present. Colostomy is merely a palliative operation, whose object, by diverting the passage of faeces, is to give entire rest to the diseased bowel. It is the only procedure in many cases where perirectal sup- puration, sinuses, and fistulas are present. Where excision is impossible, either from the general condition of the patient or upon anatomical grounds, and where simpler forms of treatment have failed to alleviate symptoms, colostomy is indicated. There will naturally be consider- able aversion on the part of the patient to the operation, but his condition is often enormously improved by it, and his life rendered more tolerable. Following the operation, energetic treatment locally must be persevered with. The bowel must be thoroughly cleansed, and this may be more effectually done through the colostomy opening than from the anus. Should the ulceration heal, certainly some degree of stricture will result. If this can be effectually treated (p. 705) it may be possible to close the colostomy opening. More often the colostomy must, remain permanently, for, when the ulceration has been so extensive as to warrant colostomy, in the healing process the bowel becomes so deformed that the satisfactory treatment of the stricture is impossible, and its covering is so delicate that ulceration is liable to recur upon the slightest provocation.