663 ANATOMY and posteriorly with the lesser sacro-sciatic ligament. It is supplied on its pelvic surface by the 3rd and 4th sacral nerves. The extraperitoneal tissue in the pelvis, almost devoid of fat. extends along the rectum as far as the anal canal. It supports the bowel, and conveys the vessels to the rectum. The pelvic fascia lines the pelvis and supplies sheaths for the muscles and supports for the pelvic viscera. Lining the levator ani on its pelvic aspect is a strong fibrous layer, which at the insertion of the muscle is attached to the deep layer of the triangular ligament, the bowel wall, and behind this is continuous with the layer of the opposite side above the raphe of insertion of the levatores ani muscles, and is prolonged posteriorly over the coccygeus muscle. The rectum receives from this layer a sheath which gradually thins below and becomes lost where the anal canal commences. Ischio-rectal fossa (Fig. 481).—This fossa, occupied by fat, is bounded externally by the pelvic fascia covering the obturator internus muscle ; inter- nally by the anal fascia clothing the levator ani and coccygeus muscles ; anteriorly by the junction of the anal fascia and deep layer of the triangular ligament; posteriorly by the sacro-sciatic ligament and gluteus maximus muscle. The fossa is overlapped posteriorly by the gluteus maximus, and internally by the external sphincter; between these two the subcutaneous is continuous with the ischio-rectal fat. The depth of the fossa varies, but in an average adult measures about 2^ in. The pudic vessels and nerve run in a fascial tunnel in the outer wall of the fossa, and the inferior ha?mor- rhoidal vessels and nerve cross the fat in the fossa. Arteries.—The superior hcemorrhoidal, a continuation of the inferior mesenteric trunk, supplies the muscular and mucous coats in the upper part, and the mucosa only in the lower inch or so, one terminal vessel being found in each column of Morgagni. The middle hcemorrhoidals, one on each side, from the internal iliac arteries, supply the muscular walls of the lower rectum and the mucosa of the upper anal canal. The inferior hcemorrhoidals, two or three on each side, from the pudic vessels, supply the muscles prin- cipally, but branches also pass to the mucosa through the interval between the two sphincter muscles or in the immediate neighbourhood. The middle sacral gives one or two small branches to the muscular wall, some of -which may penetrate to the mucosa. A plexus, the hcemorrhoidal plexus, is formed in the submucous tissue by the anastomosis of the branches of all these arteries. Veins.—The veins are valveless. In each column of Morgagni is found a plexiform arrangement of veins, some of which may show dilatations. Leaving the upper end of each column are one or more veins which, after passing a variable distance in the submucosa, perforate the muscular wall and join the superior haemorrhoidal vessels. When in the submucosa the veins freely communicate with one another, forming the internal venous hcemorrlioidal plexus. In the perianal skin are a number of radially arranged veins, communi- cating with one another by a circular vein. These connect above with the radicles of the superior hoemorrhoidal veins in the columns of Morgagni. The veins of the anal margin and the anal canal chiefly contribute to the forma- tion of the inferior haemorrhoidal veins. Veins accompanying the middle hajmorrhoidal arteries are also present. On the outer surface of the rectal wall is a rich venous plexus contributed to by all the veins which pass out from the mucosa through the bowel wall, and hence all the haemorrhoidal veins are brought freely into communication with one another. A free