THE PANCREAS 766 pancreas may become a disintegrating mass associated with retroperi- toneal cellulitis, but, when time permits, the parts around form the walls of an abscess cavity in which a large slough may lie completely separated from the rest of the gland (Plate 101). Such an abscess may burst into one of the holloAV viscera, or even externally, and in this way part of the pancreas may be discharged, and the patient recover. In all cases peritonitis is considerable, most marked about the pancreas, and sometimes localized in the lesser sac (inflammatory effusion into the lesser sac). The effusion may be serous, hsemorrhagic, or deeply bile-stained. In chronic inflammation few changes may be apparent to the naked eye ; but sometimes the whole gland is a little enlarged and uniformly hard, looking like a " waxen cast " ; or, again, the head only may be enlarged, irregular, and knobby, like a malignant tumour. Microscopically, there are two forms of chronic pancreatitis—(1) the interstitial interlobular variety, in which the normal connective tissue is converted into a dense fibrous stroma compressing and gradually replacing the gland, and (2) the interacinous variety, in which the fibrous tissue separates the glandular acini and even sometimes the separate cells. In this form the cell islands are soon involved and diabetes often supervenes. Clinical features. Catarrhal pancreatitis. — Catarrhal inflammation probably often precedes the more acute processes and may arise after influenza, or as a complication or sequel of mumps, and probably is the active feature in many cases of so-called catarrhal jaundice. Suppurative catarrh of the ducts resembles suppurative cholangitis, with which it is usually associated. It may also occur with pancreatic calculi. The treatment is external drainage via the common bile-duct. Acute pancreatitis usually occurs about middle life, the period of election being between 35 and 50, though it has occurred in a child of only 5, and in a man of 75. Males are affected twice as often as females. Although the disease may attack healthy patients, there is frequently a history of antecedent dyspepsia and of seizures of pain in the upper abdomen, and in about 25 per cent, of the cases the victims are stout people of alcoholic habits. The onset is always sudden, and usually very acute, with epigastric pain so severe and collapse so profound that perforation of the stomach is closely simulated. Epigastric tenderness and muscular rigidity in the supra-umbilical zone are associated with violent belching and vomiting. The pulse is small and thready, and cyanosis may be marked. Such peases may end fatally within twenty-four hours. In those that survive the early collapse, inflammatory symptoms