587 SECONDARY CHANGES 6. Acute inflammation.—This is rarely seen except in the sacs of very laroe irreducible liernias ; it is of the nature of a localized peri- tonitis, is predisposed to by direct injury, and usually results in resolution with the formation of extensive adhesions between the sac and its contents. At times it may give rise to strangulation of these contents, or may progress to complete sloughing or gangrene. It is especially prone to occur in the victims of Bright's disease, in whom the prognosis is consequently very unfavourable. 7. Loculation.-—Although due at times to congenital abnormality, the fonnation of secondary loculi in hernial sacs is also seen as tlie result of inflammation about the inguinal and femoral regions, and is an almost constant feature of umbilical hernias of any size. It is especially prone to occur in recurrent hernias of rapid formation. Tlie presence of omentum densely adherent to the sac wall below the neck may compel the wall above t,he adhesion to bulge laterally through the separated fibres of its coverings. Thus the original sac may have one or more secondary loculi, opening usually near the neck, and often as large as, or even larger than, the parent sac. 8. Localized disease.—Although extremely rare, cases have been reported of the presence of disease apparently confined to hernial sacs. I have met with three such cases : in two elderly men, masses in the fundi of the sacs proved on section to be spheroidal-celled carcinomas ; in the third, a middle-aged man, an apparently localized tuberculous mass was foimd. Secondary changes in the coverings.—In some cases the coverings, owing to very rapid increase in the size of the hernia, become extremely thin, their fibres being widely separated and atrophic, the common condition in umbilical hernia; on the other hand, those which develop slowly and steadily frequently undergo marked h3rpertrophy, the muscular coverings especially appearing as a defuiite thick layer. In such cases the blood supply is markedly increased, and large vessels are seen ramifying over the surface of the sac, while the coverings are matted together and often densely adherent. Occasionally, in very large umbilical and ventral hernias, whose coverings are atrophic, the skin at the most dependent part becomes cedematous and inflamed, and a slough appears, or what is more common, a recurrent superficial ulcer. Such changes are due to inter- ference with the blood supply and to the influence of gravity. Secondary changes in the contents.—As regards the omentum, tlie most noteworthv changes are tlie remarkable and often rapid increase which takes place in its volume when it remains permanently in the sac, and its proneness to become adherent to its surroundings. This increase is independent of any general increase