GASTRIC CARCINOMA: DIAGNOSIS 387 Kelling, Crile, and others liave attempted the early diagnosis by means of a hsemolytic test. Wideroe, Crile, and Pans found a positive reac- tion in over 60 per cent, of the cases. All the patients with mahgnant disease who failed to give a positive reaction had advanced disease. E. C. Hort has shown that the power of inhibiting tryptic digestion is much greater in the serum of patients suffering from carcinoma; but as the antitryptic index is raised in many other diseases it is chiefly helpful from its negative side, although in Hort's cases the test was of no value in 6 out of 100. It is suggested that absence of a rise in the antitryptic index of the serum may be of value in the diagnosis of chronic gastric ulcer from carcinoma. Unfortunately, neither of these tests is sufficiently reliable to help materially with the diagnosis. It can only be laid down that surgical treatment should be considered in all cases in which digestive symptoms in an adult fail to respond to thorough medical treatment, or relapse, and that exploration should be undertaken in aU cases in which the disease is due to some structural alteration in the stomach. A careful examination of the gastric contents should be made. Absence of free HCl, diminution of the total acidity, as well as the presence of lactic acid and the Oppler-Boas bacillus, are signs suggestive of carcinoma. In patients in whom carcinoma originates in a previously healthy stomach, free HCl is usually absent and the total acidity is low by the time they come mider observation. Whether this obtains within a few weeks of the onset of the symptoms remains for further investigation. When the malignant growth supervenes on a chronic gastric ulcer, free HCl is usually present in about normal amount, and the total acidity corresponds. These are the cases in which diagnostic help is so much needed ; no information of any value is given. Again, in cases of chronic gastritis of long duration and in certain cases of chronic ulcer and after severe hsemorrhage, free HCl may be absent. It is evident that too much reliance must not be placed upon the result of gastric analysis, but, taken with other symptoms, it is parti cularly helpful in those cases in wliich gastric symptoms appear for the first time in adults. The vomit and faeces should also be examined for occult blood. All are agreed that exploration should be undertaken when any suspicion of cancer exists, without waiting for the diagnosis to be made certain. When a tumour is present it must be diagnosed from tumour of the gall-bladder and colon ; if other means have failed, distension of the stomach with air will ia most cases enable this to be done.