THE BREAST 24 as a vague, sector-shaped induration. Pressure upon the indurated area often causes serous fluid to exude, or even squirt, from the affected duct, while pressure upon the normal portions of the breast has no effect. Enlargement of the axillary glands.—It is not uncommon to find in chronic mastitis that the axillary glands are unduly palpable— that is to say, they are sUghtly but not much enlarged. The glands are firm and elastic, and sometimes tender. The slight degree of enlargement, the tenderness, and the absence of hardness help to distinguish them from secondary carcinomatous glands. Bonney has drawn attention to the precarcinomatous changes which occur in lymphatic glands. When a cancer is present, e.g. in the breast, the axillary glands become enlarged, owing to the appear- ance of large and active germinal areas, to an increase in the number of lymphocytes, and to the appearance in the gland of large quantities of plasma cells. All these changes, according to Bonney, occur before any maUgnant cells have reached the gland. In a less degree he found the same changes in the axillary glands of ten breasts removed for chronic mastitis and proved microscopically to be free from cancer. A consideration of these facts makes it seem likely that cases of chronic mastitis in which the glands are unduly palpable are more likely to end in cancer than are those in which this sign is absent. In such cases removal of the breast may be the best course to pursue, but no general rule can be laid down. Diagnosis.—The indurations of chronic mastitis are charac- terized by their vague definition when palpated by the flat hand, thus differing from both simple and mahgnant tumours. The sector- shape of the indurations is also characteristic when only part of the breast is involved. Moreover, as further distinctions from carcinoma, nipple retraction and adhesion to skin and fascia are absent. A carcinomatous lump in the breast is usually single, while the indura- tions of chronic mastitis are often multiple. The axillary glands are softish, elastic, possibly tender, and not much enlarged, while the glands in carcinoma are hard, painless, and often much increased in size. If a hardness is present in the area of ill-defined induration, it may be impossible to say without operation whether a carcinoma or a simple cyst is the cause (Fig. 258), for it must not be forgotten that a carcinoma may arise in a pre-existing area of mastitis. Prognosis. — In young women, chronic mastitis is tractable and not dangerous ; but as the menopause is approached, a more guarded prognosis and a closer watch become necessary in view of the intimate relations between chronic mastitis and cancer. Treatment.—In some cases of chronic mastitis, especially in young women, the usual medicinal treatment is satisfactory. The