RUPTURED GALL-BLADDER 741 INJURIES The gall-bladder may be ruptured subcutaneously or wounded "by a stab or a bullet. A large bile-duct may be damaged, and there may be associated injuries to the liver or other viscera, or to some large vessel such as tlie portal vein. Morbid anatomy.—The rent in the gall-bladder is usually at tlie fundus, and may be a mere puncture or a tear an inch or more in length. The ducts may be comj^letely torn across, but more usually only part of the circumference is involved, so that healing occurs, though stricture may follow. Clinical features.—Either accident may be early fatal from associated injury, and, in any case, will be attended with shock. When the shock passes off, the patient may appear to recover com- pletely, or the abdomen may become distended, painful, tender, rigid, and dull in the right side, especially about the iliac region. Jaundice is almost invariable, and is of diagnostic importance, for it is present in 65 per cent, of injuries to the bile passages, and only in 4'75 per cent, of injuries to the liver. After a time the general abdominal distension diminishes, but is followed either at once or in two or three weeks by the development of a localized collection of fluid in the right side. Treatment.—If ;in injury to the bile passages is diagnosed early, an operation should be carried out. A rent in the fundus of the gall-bladder may be closed by suture or used for pur230ses of drain;;ge, or the viscus removed altogether. If one of the larger ducts be injured the treatment will depend on the size of the tear. A small hole may be tre?„ted by stitching a tube to the margin of the rent, thus pro- viding for external drainage, but almost complete division demands an attempt at suture, combined with external drainage. In complete rupture of the common duct it may be possible to reunite the ends or to implant the proximal one into the duodenum, but it will usually be safer and easier to ligature botli and to perform cholecystenterostomy (Terrier). In cases not seen until a localized collection has formed, it is best merely to establish external drainage without attempting to find the hole in the duct. INFECTIVE GRANULOMATA Tuberculosis, whether of the gall-bladder or of the ducts, though found after death in a fair proportion of cases of intestinal tuberculosis, is undoubtedly very rare as a clinical entity. The gall- bladder lias been opened for suspected calculi, Init found to contain only tuberculous granulation tissue. Diagnosis is practically impossible, though, singularly, jaundice