THE BREAST 58 series of cases, although the sldn removed is only a circle of four or five inches, but four instances of recurrence in the skin have come to notice. Dissemination within the limits of the breast.—Langhans was the first to notice that the small lymphatics of the breast are invaded early and widely, far beyond the infiltrating edge of the primary growth. Stiles showed that the breast is a far more wide-spreading organ than it appears to be, and that for its complete removal, shown to be imperative by Langhans' observations, an extensive operation is necessary. Extension of growth to the fectoral /ascia.—Heidenhain, in 1889, showed that in two cases out of three, lymphatics filled with cancer cells are present upon the pectoral fascia. In opposition to Langhans, he maintained that the process is one of continuous growth along the vessels, not one of lymphatic embolism. Livasion of the lymph- atics of the pectoral fascia precedes the clinical sign of adhesion of the growth to the fascia. Embolism of the axillary glands.—Embolic invasion of the axillary glands along their afferent trunks almost invariably occurs as soon as the lymphatics of the pectoral fascia have been invaded. In the •earliest stage a few cancer cells are seen lying in the subcapsular lymph sinus at the point of entry of the afferent lymphatics (Stiles). The cells slowly penetrate to the interior of the gland by infiltrating its lymph spaces, and ultimately reach the efferent lymphatics, along which they may be swept to the supraclavicular glands. At the same time they are infiltrating the capsule of the gland, wliich con- sequently loses its mobility upon the surrounding structures. The lymphatic glands delay for a long time the further advance of the cancer cells, and there is evidence that they may destroy cancer cells brought to them, and that they only succumb to invasion after a prolonged resistance. It is important to note that widespread dissemination may occur in cases where, after death, the axillary glands are found to be free from cancer. In fact, the route which leads through the axillary glands is only a by-way of dissemination, and not the main avenue. Invasion of the opposite axillary glands and of the opposite breast.— In a late stage of breast cancer, owing to extension of permeation across the middle line, enlargement of the opposite axillary glands often occurs. A little later, deposits of growth are noted in the opposite breast. Only in rare cases is such a deposit really a second primary growth. In a few cases the inguinal glands become enlarged, show- ing that permeation has extended below the level of the umbilicus into the region of the main tributaries of the inguinal glands. Embolic invasion of the inguinal glands then becomes a possibility.