BASSINI'S OPERATION 621 wliicli has protruded at the last moment on removal of the finger. (d) Slipping of a ligature placed upon a thick-walled and vascular sac. (e) Tying-in or dividing a loop of the vas deferens close to the deep surface of the neck of the sac. 2. With the finger or the handle of a scalpel the peritoneum is peeled back from the deep aspect of Poupart's ligament so as to display its shining wliite fibres, and the conjoined tendon is similarly peeled back from the overlying aponeurosis of the external oblique as far as possible. At this point the question will arise as to the necessity of reinforcing the inguinal canal by the method described on p. 622 ; where the patient is yoimg, the musculature good, and the hernia not of unusual size nor recurrent, this will not be necessary. The cord is held out of the way, and five or more stout chromicized, iodized catgut sutures inserted through a half-inch grip of the conjoined tendon and through the upturned edge of Poupart's ligament, from the pubic spine to the internal abdominal ring. The wound is flushed out with normal saline and thoroughly dried, and the sutures are then tied just sufficiently tightly to approximate the structures included, and so to remake the posterior wall of the inguinal canal. Care must be taken—{a) to avoid puncturing the deep epigastric vessels ; {b) to take up a good thickness of the conjoined tendon in the sutures ; (c) not to tie these sutures to the extent of strangula- tion ; (d) to avoid mattress-sutures, which of necessity cause strangu- lation of tissue ; (e) to take up only the deep fibres of Poupart's ligament, and tiot the free cut edge of the oblique aponeurosis. 3. The cord is replaced in position, and the wound in the aponeurosis closed, the edges being caught up in the manner of a Lembert's suture, which prevents the tendency to split, sufticient room being left for the escape of the cord from the canal without undue constriction. Finally, in stout patients the superficial fascia may be approximated by one or two sutures so as to obliterate any '■ dead space," and the skin incision is closed by interrupted silk- worm-gut sutures, or preferably by Michel's clip-sutures. The dress- ings and bandages applied, in order to avoid any strain being brought upon the sutures the patient's knee and hip should be flexed and kept in this position during his removal to bed, when at some distance from the scene of operation ; this is best done by passing a figure- of-eight bandage romid the leg and tliigh, and fixing the limb to that of the sound side in a position of adduction and internal rotation. Operative Treatment of Large Scrotal Hernia Few large scrotal hernias can be cured by any method which relies upon the patient's tissues alone. The musculature is no