RECOVERABILITY OF BOWEL Bowel may be classified as " safe," " doubtful," or " dangerous." It is "safe" when.—(1) there is no lymph on its surface; (2) it has not lost its gloss ; (3) oedema and bogginess are absent; (4) there is neither ecchymosis nor constriction-slough at or near the neck ; (5) it gradually returns to its normal colour on being released ; (6) the mesentery is not discoloured by blood extravasation ; (7) the fluid in the sac is clear and free from odour. It is "doubtful" if—(1) there is much delay in the return of colour on being released ; (2) it has lost its gloss; (.3) the fluid is blood-stained. It is "dangerous" when—(1) it is black and boggy; (2) the constriction remains clearly outlined on the surface ; (3) tlie fluid is foul and blood-stained. " Saje" intestine may be returned to the abdomen after being gently washed with normal saUne at a temperature of 110° F. ; after which, if the patient's condition is good, the usual radical operation may be performed. Otherwise, the womid is closed and a pad applied to prevent the return of the hernia ; tlie radical operation being deferred till later. "Doubtful" or "dangerous " bowel.—Two courses are open to the surgeon here. He may either resect the strangulated portion, reuniting the cut ends by some form of intestinal anastomosis, or, fixing the loop in the wound, he may open it and introduce a Paul's tube. The choice of method will depend cliiefly on the condition of the patient. Resection is the ideal method and should be done even where the bowel is " doubtful," but the decision to attempt it must be influenced also by (1) the length of bowel to be resected ; (2) the portion of the bowel involved ; (3) the character of the strangulation ; (4) the expe- rience of the operator ; (5) the availability of skilled assistance ; and (6) the patient's sm-romidings, as regards Ught, cleanHness, and materials for so serious an operation. Roughly speaking, resection is indicated (a) where the patient is not over 60, is not exhausted by vomiting, and cardiac and pulmonary disease are absent; (b) where the small intestine is involved; (c) where the amount of bowel involved is not so great as to preclude the possibiHty of success ; ^ (d) where the operation is done by one sldlled in surgical technique and rapid operating; and {e) where it can be done under spinal analgesia. Strangulated omentum should always be resected. Formation of a faecal or intestinal fistula.—This * A lengtli of anything over 3 feet must be looked ui^on as serious, although as much as 11 feet has been successfully removed. Spinal analgesia has greatly lessened the danger of resection; thus, in the Seamen's Hospital, Gwynne Williams has successfully resected 7 feet of small intestine under its influence in a patient of over 60, without increase of shock, although the strangulation was a double one.