498 THE INTESTINES Primary resection is indicated only when the twisted loop is gan- grenous, and then the divided ends of the bowel should be brought to the surface and drained, a lateral anastomosis being established later. When the volvulus cannot be untwisted, an artificial anus should be established in the distended bowel above, and a tube inserted into the twisted loop to drain it. If the patient survives, the afiected segment of gut is subsequently resected, and the continuity of the canal re-established by end-to-end suture or lateral anastomosis. Attempts have been made to prevent recurrence of volvulus by stitcliing the pelvic colon to the parietal peritoneum or to the iliac fossa, but these have not proved successful. More satisfactory results have been attained by shortening the mesentery of the pelvic colon by a series of sutures introduced parallel to the bowel, care being taken not to interfere with the blood supply or to kink the bowel. If recurrence takes place, as it frequently does, the pelvic colon should be excised. Other Forms op Volvulus The other portions of the intestine that may be the seat of volvulus are—(1) the ileo-ccecal junction, and (2) the small intestine. So long as the mesenteric arrangements of these parts are normal, volvulus cannot take place ; but if the mesentery is abnormally long, or its base of attachment narrowed or rendered rigid, then volvulus may occur. Volvulus of the ileo-caecal junction The twist may be limited to the caecum, or may also involve the ascending colon, the last part of the ileum, or both. The conditions of occurrence are the same as in volvulus of the pelvic colon, and the circumstances which determine it similar. The condition is less acute than when the pelvic colon is twisted. Vomiting is present, although not severe. The distension is not so extreme, and the distended caecum may be recognizable in the right loin and iliac fossa, or in the left hypochondrium, as a defined resonant swelUng about the size of a cliild's head. The difficulty of undoing the twist is greater than in volvulus of the pelvic colon. Volvulus of the small intestine is rare. There are usually adhesions, which fix the gut and form an axis of rotation. It may affect only one loop, or the entire ileum may be rotated. The rotation is usually in the direction of the hands of a watch, and amounts to one complete turn or more. The symptoms vary in severity with the extent of bowel involved, and the tightness of the strangulation. The twisted segment may form a tangible mass in the middle of the abdomen. Vomiting is always an early and severe symptom. The treatment of these forms of volvulus is carried out on the same fines as that of volvulus of the pelvic colon.