RENAL TUBERCULOSIS—SYPHILIS 831 (iv) Tuberculous lesions of other organs ; but obsolete tuberculous foci such as spinal curvature, ankylosed joints, healed tuberculous disease of bones, etc., do not contra-indicate nephrectomy. Moreover, in active but limited tuberculous disease of the genital organs, nephrec- tomy may be performed. In active disease of the Imigs or other organs, nephrectomy is contra-indicated. (v) A generally enfeebled state of the patient. The following procedures may be carried out in regard to the ureter : (i) The upper end may be fixed in the lumbar wound. This usually leads to tuberculous infection of the wound, and is not recommended. (ii) The ureter may be ligatured, cauterized, and dropped into the retroperitoneal space. The ureteral disease usually subsides and gives no further trouble, but occasionally cystitis is kept up. (iii) The ureter is excised. This is done at the time of the nephrectomy by prolonging the incision. The ureter is stripped from the peritoneum and followed into the pelvis, where it is ligatured and cut across. Some inches of the tube usually remain and give rise to no trouble. Kelly suggests removing the lower end through the vagina with a portion of the bladder wall. Results of nefhrectomy for friinary tuberculosis.—Brongersma has shown an immediate mortality of 7'18 per cent, in 513 cases of nephrec- tomy by ten surgeons. Where the modern methods of diagnosis were used to exclude unsuitable cases the mortality fell to 2'85 per cent. There is a risk, amounting to 10"6 per cent., of the patient dying of tuberculosis during the first two years, and a risk of 3'12 per cent, of a fatal result from tuberculosis after that. Nephrotomy.—This is a preliminary or a palliative operation when the patient is much enfeebled from toxaemia, and very rarely for great pain or severe haemorrhage. SYPHILIS OF THE KIDNEY Nephritis due to secondary syphilis is rare, and always bilateral. In slight cases there is a trace of albumin in the urine and slightly marked cedema. In severe cases there is oliguria, pronounced albuminuria, with epithelial casts and a few leucocytes in the urine, nausea, vomiting, anasarca, and eventually uraemia, and in such cases interstitial nephritis with changes in the glomeruli and blood-v^essels are usually found. Tertiary syphilis may give rise to subacute or clironic interstitial nepliritis, or less frequently a parenchymatous neplu-itis. The disease may be unilateral, and may affect only one part of the kidney. Scarring of the kidney is some- times found. Gummata are single or multiple. When a large gumma is present the kidney is enlarged, hard, and irregular. Such kidneys have been removed for malignant growth or tuberculous disease. Amyloid degeneration may occur in tertiary syphilis. Congenital syphilis may affect the kidney cUuing foetal life, and, as Stoerk has shown, cause arrest or delay of develop- ment, so that at birth the outer layer of the cortex contains imperfectly developed tubules and glomeruli. During infancy and childhood acute or