537 THE APPENDIX By PERCY SARGENT, M.A., M.B., B.C.Cantab., F.R.C.S.Eng. Anatomy and physiology.—The appendix is a blind tubular diverticulum springing from the inner and posterior aspect of the caecum at a point about 2 in. from the ileo-csecal valve. In the foetus and in the infant it forms the apex of the caecum, and when this condition persists in adult life the caecum is said to be of the foetal type. The sacculations of the adult caecum which displace the appendix from its apical position are of secondary formation. The appendix attains its maximum development in young adult life, and after middle age it is said slowly to atrophy. In old age it mav be found represented by a mere fibrous cord. Length.—The average length of the appendix is between 3 and 4 in., varying from ^ in. or even less up to as much as 9 in. {R. Berry). Whilst its average diameter is about | in., its lumen, unless occupied by pathological material, is very narrow. The caecal orifice is sometimes marked by a feebly developed valve-like fold of mucous membrane (Gerlach's valve). Position.—The appendix occupies no constant anatomical posi- tion, the variations in this respect being due to its free mobility. The situations in which it is most frequently found are (1) to the inner side of the caecum, pointing upwards and leftwards towards the spleen (38 per cent., H. P. Hawkins) ; (2) pointing upwards behind the caecum, where it often occupies and is concealed in the retrocolic fossa (26 per cent.) ; and (3) hanging over the pelvic brim (17 per •cent.). It will be readily understood that the position in which the appendix happens to lie when it becomes acutely inflamed or per- forated will determine the situation of a resulting abscess or the direc- tion of spread of a diffuse peritonitis. Surface marking.—McBurney's point is situated upon a line drawn from the anterior superior iliac spine to the umbilicus (spino- umbilical line) and about 2 in. internally to the iliac spine. This does not represent the situation of the appendix, but is said to be, as a rule,