THE TESTIS 942 (c) Myoma.—This tumour, of which two at least have been reported, is believed to arise in the remains of the gubemaculum testis. {d) Adenoma.—Ticene and Chevason have described small nodules, never larger than a pea, occurring in ectopic testes, which they think are true adenomas. They have never seen them in the normally placed organ. MALIGNANT NEW GEOWTHS Mahgnant growth of the testis, whether primary or secondary, is rare, only about '06 per cent, of all male patients admitted to the London Hospital suffering from this disease. These growths will be considered from a clinical point of view. Malignant disease of the testis may occur at any age, and may even be congenital. It usually occurs in one testis, but French writers have described a special variety which has a tendency to attack both testes at the same time. It appears to be relatively more common in the imperfectly descended testis than in the normally placed organ, but some writers have denied this statement. In a large proportion of cases the disease appears to follow injury to the testis, but this trauma may only be the means of calling the patient's attention to what is a symptomless disease. Clinical symptoms.—These at first are absent, but later there is a dragging pain in the groin and pain across the loins. Later still, with secondary deposits in the lumbar glands, there may be sharp attacks of abdominal pain, and the usual signs and symptoms of mahgnant cachexia. Physical signs.—The disease nearly always afiects the body of the testis, primary malignant disease of the epididymis being rare. The body becomes uniformly enlarged, the growth for a long period being confined by the timica albuginea. Later there is appearance of locaHzed nodidar bulgings of the tunica albuginea, of a softer con- sistency than the rest of the tumour. If the tumour contains much cartilage it is exceedingly hard, but the rapidly growing fleshy growths with a large amount of degeneration of the tumour tissue feel soft and semi-fluctuant. Testicular sensation may be either absent or present, depending upon the stage of the disease and the amount of normal testicular substance remaining. If the testicle is supported in the hand it feels heavy. The epididynais becomes greatly stretched and thinned out over the enlarged body to such an extent that in the majority of cases it is not possible to differentiate between the body and the epididymis. A general or localized effusion may be present in the tunica vaginalis, but this is not common. In a few cases this effusion is blood-stained. The spermatic cord is usually unaffected, except that it is a little thick-