THE BREAST i8 thrice daily. At the same time glycerine of belladonna is applied to both breasts, which are then to be firmly bandaged over a layer of wool. If the patient is exhausted by long lactation a more tonic treatment is necessary. Saline purgatives must be replaced by iron and strychnine, and a generous diet prescribed, while a glass of bur- gundy with lunch and dinner may be of advantage after the flow of milk has ceased. Retromammary abscess is best opened by an incision situated in the sulcus beneath the breast and at its lower and outer margin. Search should be made at the operation for bare bone, and for an opening communicating with the thoracic cavity. Mammary abscess due to tubercle, actinomycosis, or sypliilis will be referred to under the heads of those diseases. Abscess may result from hydatid disease of the breast. Bier's hyperaemia in acute mastitis.—Bier recommends the treatment of acute mastitis in all its stages by a dome- shaped cupping glass, of a diameter about an inch smaller than the mammary gland itself, and with a margin curved to fit the chest wall. Air is cautiously withdrawn by a suction syringe ; the breast protrudes into the bell and becomes blue and engorged. When the patient finally feels as if the breast would burst, the exhaustion of air should be stopped, for the entire procedure should be painless. Usually one or two oxmces of milk escape. Abscesses and sinuses, wliich at first discharge blood and pus, yield only blood-stained serous fluid towards the end of the sitting. If pain is not relieved, an abscess must be suspected, and should be opened by a small incision, the patency of which must be maintained by a drainage-tube. Large incisions are said to be unnecessary when Bier's treatment is used. The glass is to be applied for forty-five minutes daily, suction for five minutes alternating with release of pressure for three minutes. When suppuration ceases the duration of the daily sitting may be lessened. Vaccine treatment of acute mastitis.—The vaccine treatment of acute mastitis and mammary abscess is so recent that it is not yet possible to estimate its value. In acute mastitis where suppuration threatens, if a cracked nipple is present, a vaccine may be prepared from the organisms found in the crack, and by its prompt use the formation of an abscess may be averted. If streptococci are seen in a stained film, a stock vaccine may be used without waiting for a cultivation. In cases of acute mastitis where no cracked nipple is present, the Staphylococcus pyogenes aureus is probably the infecting agent. It is accordingly reasonable to endeavour to avert suppuration by injections of a stock vaccine of this organism in doses of 400-500 millions at intervals of a week.