313 DUODENAL STRICTURE The superior mesenteric vessels crossing the third portion of the duodenum have been credited with the causation of duodenal obstruc- tion (p. 324). Hour-glass duodenum has been recorded as a late result of duodenal ulcer. Symptoms of duodenal stenosis.—The disease is usually chronic ; when produced by pressure of vessels or lodgment of a gall-stone it may be acute. The chronic forms must be divided into two groups—those in which the stenosis is above, and those in which it is below, the entrance of the common bile-duct. The diagnosis of the former, which is the more common, has never been made before operation, as the symptoms are identical with those of stenosis of the pylorus ; but X-ray examina- tion after a bismuth meal might possibly reveal its seat. When the stricture is below the entrance of the common bile-duct the symptoms are characteristic : there is dilatation of both the stomach and the duodenum, and bile and pancreatic juices pass readily into the stomach and are vomited. The reaction of the gastric contents is neutral or alkaline. The motions may be colourless, or nearly so. Treatment.—Stricture of the duodenum should be treated so as to restore as far as possible the normal condition of parts either by duodenoplasty or by Finney's operation (p. 418). Where tliis is impossible from the presence of adhesions, or inadvisable from the presence of an ulcer, posterior gastro-jejunostomy should be performed, as near the pylorus as possible. GASTRIC DIVERTICULA These are rare, and usually arise as the result of gastric ulcer, rarely of carcinoma. They belong to the " traction " group of diver- ticula, and are the result of the adhesion of the stomach to the abdominal wall, liver, or pancreas. Diagnosis is usually impossible. If the pouch is so shaped or situated as to permit lodgment of food, it may cause symptoms due to its distension or inflammation. Tliis condition usually occurs in women, and should be thought of when, with stomach symptoms in a woman, there is a tumour adherent to the abdominal wall in the left epigastric region. Treatment should consist of excision of the diverticulum, accompanied by gastro-enterostomy if necessary. Two cases are recorded, in both of which the patients recovered after operation (Kolaczek, Silbermark). DUODENAL DIVERTICULA Diverticula of the duodenum are usually situated close to the biliary papilla, are small and formed of the mucous coat only (Fig. 366).