774 THE PANCREAS interior for secondary cysts or calculi. If the cyst can be brought to the surface, he then marsupializes it by stitching the edges of the opening to the abdominal wall; if not, he must fix a dressed tube into the cyst by means of a purse-string suture, or, failing this, must rely on careful packing to prevent leakage. The discharge will pro- bably be scanty at first, but it soon becomes abundant and proteolytic. In an ordinary case the track will close in about four to eight weeks. Sometimes lumbar drainage has been found necessary, but as a primary operation this can only be necessary in deep-seated cysts. NEW GROWTHS With the exception of cysts, all tumours of the pancreas are com- paratively rare. Of the simple tumours, adenomas and cystadenomas have been most often observed. Such tumours have been successfully removed. Carcinoma May be primary or secondary. Primary cancer may be masked by the resultant enlargement of the liver. The growth may commence in any part, but is commonest in the head, where it may form a hard, nodular, rounded mass the size of an orange, or it may be diffuse. A striking feature is the enormous dilatation of the gall- bladder which occurs when the bile-duct is compressed (Plate 102). Very often a cancer involving the head of the pancreas has had its origin in the glands, and not in the pancreas itself. . Clinical features.—The disease is more common in males, and usually occurs between the ages of 40 and 60. The cases can be sepa- rated into three groups, according to whether the bile-duct, the portal vein, or the duodenum is most involved. In the first group, jaundice is the most prominent symptom—it comes on gradually, and stealthily deepens until the patient is of an olive-green colour, with a marked tendency to haemorrhage and an intolerable itching ; in the second group, ascites is the prominent feature; and in the third, gastric symp- toms, depending on obstruction of the duodenum ; but, in any case, jaundice is almost certain to appear at some stage of the illness. Pain may be present, usually above the umbilicus and through to the back. Unaltered fat or undigested muscle fibres may be found in the faeces. Glycosuria is only present when the whole gland is involved, or when there is chronic pancreatitis. The absence of urobilin points to cancer. Diagnosis.—In gall-stones there is nearly always a history of previous attacks, an onset attended with pain, intermissions in the jaundice, and an absence of palpable tumour or enlarged gall-bladder. (Fig. 519.) Chronic pancreatitis may exactly simulate cancer, but there is usually a history of coincident gall-stone attacks. The jaundice is