737 OMENTOPEXY That tliis does actually occur is proved by the great development of the subcutaneous veins some time after the operation. (Fig. 522.) The operation can only be recommended for ascites depending on alcoholic cirrhosis and due to portal obstruction, and not merely the result of toxaemia. The patients selected should have withstood several tappings, should be free from pulmonary, cardiac, or renal disease, and should become absolute teetotalers after recovery. A supra-umbilical incision is made to expose the liver and spleen and confirm the diagnosis. Then through a small suprapubic opening a Keith's tube is in- troduced into Douglas's pouch, and the abdomen emptied of fluid. The surfaces of the liver and spleen are scrubbed with gauze to set up some peritoneal reaction, and the omentum is fixed at two or three points to the parietes, especially to the peritoneal edges of the wound. After- wards tlie jaai'ietes are kept in contact with the liver and spleen by carefully strapping the abdomen from above down- wards. Continuous drainage is secured by Keith's tube. Reaccumulation of fluid may demand one or more tappings. Some operators dispense with drainage and de- pend on subsequent tapping. Results.—In properly selected cases the mortality is very low and the after- results are uniformly good, patients re- maining alive well for 2, .3, 5, 6, and over 11 years. {See Fig. 522.) The operation has been used for ascites due to a great variety of causes, but usually with un- satisfactory results. Drainage into the subcutaneous tissue has been suggested by Essex Wynter, and carried out by Sampson Handlev. Fig. 522.—Photograph of a patient ahve and well 11 years after omentopexy for alcoholic cir. rhosis. Ihe great development of tiie epi- gastric veins is well shown on the right side. That a similar condition did not arise on the left side was probably due to the fact that the patient always wore an inguinal iruss {PhotOirafh kindly lent hy Pro- fessor R ntht'r/ord Mori sou.) SIMPLE TUMOURS Angiomas of the liver have several times been successfully removed. Though usually quite small, this species of tumour may attain the size of a child's head. As oper;;tive interference may be