802 THE KIDNEY especially in pyonephrosis. The staphylococcus and Proteus vulgaris cause ammoniacal decomposition ; in the rare pure streptococcal and in the common B. coli infections the urine remains acid. Pyelonephritis occurs in two forms—(a) primary or " haemato- genous " pyelonephritis, appearing without previous urinary disease, and believed to be caused by blood-borne bacteria ; and (b) secondary or " ascending " pyelonephritis, which follows infection of the lower urinary tract. (a) Primary or haematogenous pyelonephritis. — This disease occurs in infants, children, and adults. In infants and young children it is comparatively common, and affects the pelvis more severely than the kidney. In adults it exhibits a predilection for the right kidney, for the most active period of life, and for the female sex, especially during pregnancy {see p. 808). Etiology.—Usually there is a history of chronic constipation, and sometimes of recent diarrhoea ; in such cases the colon is probably the chief source of the bacteria. Tonsillitis, boils, or carbuncles may be the primary focus, while the renal infection occasionally complicates influenza or typhoid fever. (b) Secondary or ascending pyelonephritis.—This dis- ease results from extension of infection from the lower urinary organs. It is the last phase of many chronic vesical and urethral diseases, and sometimes follows surgical interference with the bladder or urethra (" surgical kidney "). Although at first often unilateral, later it is invariably bilateral, affecting one side more than the other. As seen by the surgeon, the disease is bilateral in 83 per cent, of cases. Etiology.—Bacteria are introduced into the bladder by faulty instrumentation, or rarely are carried from a previously infected urethra by a sterile instrument. The predisposing causes are urethral obstruction, prolonged cystitis, vesical new growths, operations on the bladder involving the ureteric orifice, and stone in the bladder or ureter. Pathology of infective pyelonephritis.—In the acute forms there may be extensive haemorrhages in the renal substance, with irregular pale or yellowish purulent areas in the cortex and medulla. Sometimes small bosses on the surface correspond to the position of these areas. Microscopically, definite abscesses are seen, with destruction of kidney tissue, and cloudy swelling of the secre- tory epithelium is a prominent feature. There are patches of dense infiltration with leucocytes. In the most fulminating types the kidney is plum-coloured, with dark cortex and paler pyramids, and is engorged with blood. In the chronic varieties the abscesses may be still present, but there is always marked interstitial change, and at points collections of small