THE APPENDIX 552 opened into with the -finger. As soon as the pus has ceased to flow, one or more large rubber tubes are inserted into the abscess cavity, and the wound is sutured around them. The gauze strips which were used to shut ofi the peritoneal cavity may with advantage be left in situ for two or three days. The question of immediate removal of the appendix is one that has received considerable attention, and upon which different sur- geons hold different views. According to the St. Thomas's Hospital statistics, the mortality is practically the same whether tlie aj^pendix is removed at once or not. Clearly, when the appendix is readily felt in the abscess cavity, and can easily be removed without much disturbance, the operation should be completed in one stage, because the illness is thereby shortened, and the patient is saved the necessity of a subsequent operation. But if the appendix is not found at once, it is probable that the patient's interests are best served by making no dehberate search for it, but leaving its removal to be effected at a second operation some weeks later. The mortality of cases of appendix abscess is about 15 per cent. That the appendix ought to be removed subsequently is now almost universally admitted. There is no evidence to support the old belief that an attack of appendicitis which ends in suppuration is curative, and that no further trouble is likely to occur. All the available evidence points in the opposite direction. Recurrent attacks of acute appen- dicitis and recurrent abscesses are common, and even acute attacks, with diffuse and fatal peritonitis, are occasionally encountered. The St. Thomas's Hospital series contains detailed descriptions of 49 appendices removed at periods varying from two to twelve months after recovery from an abscess. In no single instance was the appen- dix obliterated; 44-9 per cent, showed well-marked constrictions, 27"5 per cent, the healed scars of previous perforation, 16"3 per cent, contained one or more concretions, 10 "2 per cent, were cystic and contained pus, 14*2 per cent, were large and greatly thickened, 20'4 per cent, were free from adhesions, 6"1 per cent, were " catarrhal " or " practically normal," and 4'1 per cent, contained unhealed ulcers. The conclusion arrived at from a critical study of the 1,075 cases in this series was, that of the subjects of appendix abscess in whom the appendix is not removed, a minimum of 10 per cent, will suffer from further serious trouble. B, CHRONIC AND RELAPSING APPENDICITIS The term " relapsing appendicitis " is used to describe those cases in which there are recurring attacks of an acute or chronic character. Each individual attack comes into its own particular category, and is more often of a subacute or chronic nature.