THE TESTIS 934 Orchitis of Typhoid Fever Orchitis occurring in typhoid usually appears during the height of the disease, but it has been known as early as the seventh day, or it may occur during convalescence. It is a rare complication. The inflammation is usually subacute, and may not be noticed owing to the general condition of the patient. The body of the testis becomes hard, tender, and swollen, and then gradual resolution takes place; suppuration and atrophy, although not un- known, are rare. One testis only is usually attacked. Orchitis of Smallpox Orchitis is a rare complication of smallpox, but it occasionally terminates in suppuration. It has also been described following vaccination for smallpox. Orchitis of Scarlet Fever, Influenza, and Malaria Orchitis is an extremely rare complication of these diseases, but its pos- sibility should be remembered in seeking for the origin of an otherwise unexplained orchitis* Orchitis and Rheumatism The cause of rheumatism is still uncertain, and it is doubtful if rheumatic orchitis really exists. Polyarthritis is very frequently of gonorrhoeal origin, and it is possible that cases described as rheumatic are really cases of epi- didj'mo-orchitis secondary to gonorrhoeal urethritis which is complicated by gonorrhceal arthritis. Orchitis has also been said to have complicated tonsillitis, but the latter affection may be due to such different causes that discussion of the subject is unnecessary. Epididymo-Orchitis and Strain The connexion, if any, between epididymo-orcliitis and strain is one of great importance, as it is not infrequent for workmen to claim com- pensation for an attack of epididymo-orchitis which is alleged to have followed the lifting of a heavy weight. Whether epididymo-orchitis is ever due to strain is doubtful. It has been suggested that violent contraction of the cremaster muscle due to great muscular effort may cause the testis to strike so forcibly against the pillars of the external ring as to produce an acute epididymo-orchitis, but this is difficult of proof. Cases of epididymo-orchitis of obscure origin are not very uncommon, and it is easy to attribute them, in the absence of an obvious cause, to an alleged strain, but great care should be taken to exclude all other possible causes before this is suggested. Many cases are due to gonorrhoeal urethritis, the discharge ceasing for a time when the testes a<re attacked. Others are cases of acute tuberculosis, or are due to subacute torsion of the spermatic cord. This last condition was not recognized by the older writers on diseases of the testis, and accounts for many cases of acute epididymo-orchitis of apparently imknown cause. Acute torsion of the spermatic cord may foUow a muscular effort, which may thus be the exciting cause of the torsion, the pre-