1052 THE FALLOPIAN TUBE witli those of salpingitis, but there is less tenderness, the pain is markedly unilateral, the patient looks exsanguined, and the tempera- ture at the beginning is either not raised or is actually subnormal. A history of previous amenorrhoea is in favour of tubal gestation, for though the period may be suppressed in acute salpingitis, and par- ticularly in tubo-ovarian abscess, this occurrence folloics the onset of the symptoms. Axial rotation of a tumour is distinguished by the presence of a well-defined tumour, often fluctuant and always dull on percussion in the earliest stages of the attack. The mass formed by acute salpingitis is never definite for at least a week, rarely fluctuates, and commonly is partially resonant. In appendicitis, as a rule, the location of the symptoms and physical signs is different. When, however, the appendix lies low down on the brim of the pelvis, inflammation of the right tube may be closely simulated. Siclaiess, distension, and constipation are greater with appendicitis than with salpingitis. Further, a patient with appendicitis is more ill than one with salpingitis exhibiting the same degree of physical signs. If a definite mass can be felt per vaginam in the position of the right appendage, the case is probably one of salpingitis. When an ovarian cyst in the pelvis suppurates, the signs and symp- toms of salpingitis are simulated. Here again the mass is from the beginning well defined, and is, moreover, entirely centraHn position. Pelvic cellulitis resembles acute salpingitis in its abrupt onset with fever and pain. The symptoms are less severe, however, and at first there may be little to make out per abdomen ; later, when a swelling appears there it is markedly lateral, and extends outwards towards the iliac fossa. On vaginal examination a typical lateral cellulitis (the only form that could be confounded with salpingitis) stretches outwards from the uterus to the side wall of the pelvis. The induration arches downwards, comes into relation with the lateral vaginal wall, and is not felt through the posterior fornix. It is to be remembered, how- ever, that more or less cellulitis of the upper part of the broad ligament usually accompanies salpingitis. Chronic salpingitis The mass formed by chronic salpingitis, especially an old pyosalpinx, may be so solid and large as to simulate an ovarian tumour, or a myoma attached to the side of the uterus. From these it is distinguished by its tenderness, and by the history and symptoms of inflammation. A diseased appendage lying behind a retroverted uterus may be mistaken for the retrofiexed fundus ; it can be differentiated by careful bimanual examination and the passage of a sound under an anaesthetic. Tubal carcinoma forms a mass impossible to diagnose from chronic salpingitis except by operation.