798 THE KIDNEY Trea.tlTient.—If the external haemorrhage is moderate and diminishing, it will be sufficient to clean and drain the wound. A careful watch must be kept for recurrent haemorrhage and septic complications. If a foreign body has lodged, or haemorrhage is severe, the track should be freely enlarged, and the kidney exposed and examined. In complicated cases exploratory laparotomy is necessary. ANEUEYSM OF THE RENAL ARTERY Only 25 cases of this rare condition were found in the literature by Skillern in 1906. It is most often caused by trauma in active men, but may occur spontaneously in either sex in association with endocarditis or arterial degeneration. The size varies from that of a hazel-nut to a large swelling occupying the whole loin and extending inwards as far as the middle line. When the aneurysm is large, and especially when a false aneurysm has formed, the kidney tissue is extensively destroyed by pressure, the colon displaced forwards and inwards, and the liver or spleen pushed upwards. Clinical features.—A small aneurysm produces no symptoms; a large one forms a swelling in the kidney region. The tumour usually appears some days or weeks after an injury, but two or even fourteen years may elapse. The swelling is smooth, slightly movable or fixed, and does not move with respiration; it is rarely painful or tender. Haematuria is early, and usually precedes the discovery of the swelling. Profuse and rapidly fatal haemorrhage follows rupture into the renal pelvis or peritoneal cavity. Pulsation has rarely been observed. Morris found a loud systolic bruit over the tumour in one case. Treatment.—The condition will usually be diagnosed during an exploratory laparotomy. A small opening in the sac should be sufficient to permit recognition of the laminated character of the contents. If severe haemorrhage takes place the wound should be plugged with gauze, the abdomen opened in the semilunar line, and the pedicle of the kidney exposed and ligatured. The aneurysmal sac and kidney are then removed. In three cases operation has been successful. PERINEPHRITIS Chronic perinephritis leads to the formation around the kidney of a layer of inflammatory tissue, either fibro-sclerotic or fibro-lipoma- tous, and tough adhesions are formed with surrounding structures. Some form of chronic inflammatory disease of the kidney is invariably present, such as pyelonephritis, pyonephrosis, calculus, or tuberculosis. In the sclerotic form the fatty capsiUe of the kidney is replaced by a dense layer of fibrous tissue, sometimes of cartilaginous hardness. In the more common fibro-lipomatous form the delicate perirenal fat is replaced by coarse nodular fat with a tough fibrous stroma. The fibro-lipomatous mass may develop principally around the pelvis or at one pole. The symptoms and treatment are merged in those of the under- lying renal disease. The movements of the kidney are not appreciably limited.