MOVEMENTS OF SMALL INTESTINE Peristalsis.—When movements of segmentation have con- tinued for some time, the food moves slowly for about 2 in. down the loop in which it lies. Tliis is the movement of peristalsis, and it consists in a dilatation of the gut beyond the bolus, and a con- striction on the proximal side of it (Bayliss and Starling). The waves travel at the rate of half an inch to an inch per minute after a meal, and four times as slowly during the fasting state. It is the inco- ordinated occurrence of constriction and relaxation that produces colic and admits of the possibility of intussusception. The other movements of the small intestine are not yet clearly understood. Immediately after death, a swift wave may pass from the duodenum to the ileo-ctecal valve (Houkgeest), and possibly in its course it causes the multiple jejunal intussusceptions sometimes seen by the pathologist. The same movement may be produced during Ufe by injecting a combination of drugs—ergot to stimulate the vagi, and calcium to inhibit the splanchnics (Meltzer and Auer). Shorter rushing waves may sometimes travel at a much higher rate than the peristaltic waves, and sweep the food without pause through several coils. Meltzer and Auer suggest that these may be an essential feature in purgation. Cannon has observed similar movements in the small intestine after administering an enema of soap and water. Physostigmin and ergot do not produce a true peristalsis, as, when they are introduced into the bowel or into the blood-stream, they cause violent local contractions, unaccompanied by any relaxation of the wall in front. These contractions are not transmitted along the bowel, and therefore are ineffectual in empty- ing it. Antiperistalsis and vomiting of intestinal contents. ■—Although antiperistalsis has never been observed in the small intestine during the normal processes of digestion, the occur- rence of continued vomiting of intestinal contents even after the stomach has been frequently washed out is a common clinical experi- ence. Many attempts have been made to prove that " fsecal " vomiting is brought about merely by an exaggeration of a normal antiperistaltic movement, but the results are not conclusive. The fii'st point to grasp is that the reflux of intestinal contents into the stomach occurs under two different conditions—one in which there is a mechanical obstruction to the onward passage of intestinal contents, and another in which there is paralysis of the intestinal wall. In the first type, which is exemplified by strangulated hernia and mahgnant stenosis, intestinal movements are present in an exaggerated degree. Cannon experimentally produced a similar condition by tying a string round the gut in the upper part of the jejunum, and on watching the progress of a bismuth meal along the bowel he observed