561 FUNCTIONS OF THE PERITONEUM a network of branching lymphatic trunks, whose efferent vessels pass to the mediastinal and abdominal lymphatic glands. From these lymphatic vessels diverticula or pouches pass downwards through the muscular and tendinous tissue of the diaphragm, where they come into the most intimate relation with the peritoneum, being only separated from it by a delicate basement membrane. Nerves.—Ramstrom has shown by dissection the ramifications of the lower intercostal nerves in the serous covering of the abdominal wall. Whilst the parietal peritoneum is said to be sensitive, the visceral portion is devoid of sensation both in health and in disease (Gushing and Lennander). The nerves are derived from the same soui'ce whence arises the cutaneous and muscular supply of the abdominal wall, namely, the last seven thoracic trunks ; this fact accounts for the reflex muscular rigidity and the superficial tenderness in peritonitis. Functions of the peritoneum.—In health the peritoneum serves to permit the intestinal and other intra-abdominal movements to take place painlessly and ■with a minimal amount of friction. Its various folds attach the viscera to one another and to the parietes, and also serve to carry the blood-vessels and other structures from the abdominal wall to the viscera. The great omentum has special functions. In addition to that of protection, fat storage, and the part which, in injury and disease, it is able to play in sealing an accidental opening in the bowel or in the abdominal wall, it takes a special share in the disposal of bacteria and other solid substances which may find their way into the peri- toneal cavity (H. E. Durham ; Dudgeon and Ross). The absorptive powers of the peritoneum are very great, and both fluids and solid particles such as bacteria are removed from the peritoneal cavity with great readiness and rapidity. The fluids are mainly taken up by the lymphatics, but may also, when under pres- sure, pass directly into the blood-vessels ; the solid particles are removed by the lymphatics alone, provided that the membrane is intact. This lymphatic absorption occurs only over the diaphragm and omentum, and the removal of solid particles takes place chiefly by phagocytosis, the particles bein^ carried first into the pits described above, and thence into the subperitoneal lymphatic vessels and spaces (Muscatello). The experiments of Buxton and Torrey and others have shown that inert particles and bacteria also find their way into the lymphatics without the aid of phagocytosis ; and Muscatello thinks that the passage of the phagocytes leaves minute apertures through which particles can afterwards be drawn by the suction action of the dia- phragm and its lymphatic currents. Absorption from the peritoneal cavity is normally aided by the pressure of the continual respiratory movements of the abdominal •2 k