THE INTESTINES 476 Pericecal Hernia Several fossae are present in the vicinity of the ileo-csecal junction, the most important from the surgical point of view being the ileo- appendicular, which lies between the ileo-appendicular or " bloodless " fold of Treves and the mesentery of the vermiform appendix ; and the retrocolic, lying behind the caecum and the lower part of the ascending colon. The existence of a hernia into one or other of these pouches is never recognized unless strangulation occurs, and then the symptoms are those of acute obstruction. Usually, the hernia can readily be withdrawn from the sac, and the obliteration of the pouch is facilitated by removal of the appendix. Hernia of the vermiform appendix alone into a fossa is not uncom- mon, and, if the appendix becomes strangulated, symptoms of acute appendicitis develop. Intersigmoid Hernia This extremely rare form of hernia passes into the intersigmoid fossa, which is formed by the layers of the mesentery of the pelvic colon over the bifurcation of the common iliac artery and near the inner margin of the psoas muscle. The sigmoid vessels run in the fold of peritoneum which forms its anterior margin. Hernia into the Foramen of Winslow Hernia through the foramen of Winslow is very rare, and is only possible when the foramen is exceptionally large, owing to some con- genital abnormality. When strangulation occurs, the usual signs of acute obstruction are present, the pain being intense and situated in the epigastrium, and a swelling, which is dull on light percussion but gives a resonant note on deeper percussion, can usually be made out. It is a curious fact that there is no evidence of pressure on the hepatic vessels or bile-duct, which run in the margin of the foramen. The treatment consists in opening the abdomen and with- drawing the strangulated coil. As the structures in the margins of the foramen forbid division of the constricting agent, if reduction cannot be effected by traction the lesser sac of the peritoneum must be opened through the gastro-hepatic or gastro-colic omentum, and the distended bowel withdrawn and emptied. After the opening in the bowel is sutured, it is returned to the lesser sac and withdrawn through the foramen. Diaphragmatic Hernia This term is applied to any protrusion of the abdominal contents through the diaphragm, although in nearly 90 per cent, of cases there