THE SALIVARY GLANDS 236 SALIVARY FISTULiE The term salivary fistula is here taken to indicate an external fistula through which the secretion is discharged on to the surface of the cheek. Internal fistulae exist, and are sometimes congenital. Bochdalek described one in which the opening into Wharton's duct was eleven lines behind the sublingual caruncle. But the condition does not present any surgical interest, since it causes the patient nO' inconvenience. An external fistula, on the other hand, may render his existence miserable. The constant discharge of saliva, aggravated as it is at meal-times, may render him objectionable to his fellow-men, so that he is compelled to satisfy his hunger in solitude. Further, the orifice of the fistula is often surrounded by an eczematous area from the constant irritation of the fluid dribbling over the cheek. It has been said that the continual loss of salivary fluid may impair the health of the patient. It is hard to believe this, though it is known that the amount excreted may assume large proportions. Two classical experiments prove this. Duphenix collected from a salivary fistula 70 grammes of fluid in fifteen minutes, and a patient of Jobert's dis- charged " several cupfuls " in twenty-four hours. A persistent salivary fistula usually results from one of the injuries already described. It may have been originally neglected or in- adequately treated ; or attempts to obtain primary union may have been made and have failed. The principal conditions which militate against primary union are sepsis occurring in the original wound, or severe contusion of its edges. In the case of an injury to Stenson's duct, primary union of the wound, even though its edges were clean- cut and it remained aseptic throughout, must be regarded as the exception rather than the rule, and an obstinate fistula often results. Salivary fistulse are also caused occasionally by ulcerative processes invading the tissues of the cheek, e.g. rodent ulcer, lupus, and actino- mycosis. Treatment. — For practical purposes, salivary fistulap may be divided into two main classes, the second of which is again divisible. 1. Gland fistulse, communicating with the gland substance. 2. Duct fistulse, communicating with the duct (i) as it lies over the masseter muscle (masseteric), (ii) as it lies in front of the anterior border of the masseter (buccal). 1. Gland fistulse.— The treatment is usually rewarded with success, though patience is demanded on the part of the patient, and perseverance on that of the surgeon. Cauterization with a silver- nitrate stick should first be given a prolonged trial. It should