103 THE SPLEEN By C. GORDON WATSON, F.R.C.S. SPLENECTOMY Effects of removal of the spleen. — The spleen can be re- moved without causing any serious physiological disturbance. Its removal causes a transitory diminution in the number of the red, and a temporary increase in the number of the white, blood- corpuscles. This deficiency is made up by an increased activity on the part of the lympliatic glands, of the bone marrow, and perhaps also of the thyroid gland, inasmuch as thyroid hypertrophy has in some instances followed excision of the spleen. The temporary ansemia which usually follows excision may in part be accounted for by the actual volume of blood removed with the spleen. In the initial leucoeytosis an increase of the polymorphonuclears usually occurs. Later on, and coincidently with the lymphatic enlargement, there is a definite lymphocytosis, which has been known to continue, in patients under observation, for as long as three years after removal of the spleen. Eosinophilia may be observed, either transitory, or immediate and persisting for some years after operation. Warthin has shown by animal experiments that lymphatic enlarge- ment occurs as a compensatory substitute for the spleen in the sheep and goat. The pain which is often complained of along the bones of the limbs after splenectomy suggests that the bone marrow takes a part in compensation. In some instances, after convalescence from splenectomy there has been a gradual onset of progressive emaciation, with general weakness, headache, tliirst, drowsiness, and irritability, and some- times with pyrexia, rapid pulse and respiration. In two cases, recorded by Ballance, in wliich this condition arose, ultimate complete recovery followed the administration of extract of sheep's spleen and bone marrow, and finally arsenic. Possibly this train of symp- toms was dependent on the loss of an internal secretion, and it may be that the bone-marrow, lymph-glands, and perhaps the thwoid, were unable at once to meet the demands made upon them so suddenly to