I30 FACE, LIPS, AND PALATE bone. In such a case the nose is extremely flattened owing to absence of the columella and the lower end of the nasal septum, and for the same reason its alse form the anterior boundary of an oro-nasal cavity (Fig. 303). Treatment—In slight cases the defect is readily corrected by Nelaton's operation (p. 138), but when the cleft is at all deep the methods advocated by Rose (p. 138) or Mirault (p. 139) give the best result. Lateral Hare-Lip This, the most usual form of hare-lip, may be unilateral or bilateral, may involve the soft parts only, or be complicated by a cleft alveolus or complete cleft palate. The defect is more common in boys than in girls ; when unilateral, it occurs more often on the left side, and may be accompanied by cleft alveolus or cleft palate, while the bilateral variety rarely occurs without a corresponding cleft in the alveolus and palate. In both varieties the defect varies from a slight indentation in the red margin of the lip to a deep fissure which extends into the nostril. In the slighter grades a narrow shining strip of skin having the appearance of scar tissue is sometimes seen extending between the apex of the indentation and the nostril. As microscopical examination has proved that none of the elements of scar tissue are present in these strips, their appearance can only be accounted for by the disturbance in the normal process of development and by delayed union. Unilateral, or single hare- lip as it is generally called, is un- fortunately more often a deep than a shallow cleft, only separated from the nostril by a narrow strip of skin re- presenting the remains of the upper lip. When the fissure extends com- pletely into the nostril the alveolus is invariably cleft as well, and not infrequently the defect in it extends backwards into the hard and soft palates. The margins of the cleft are often unequal in length, and the nostril of the same side is broadened and flat- tened. When the cleft extends into the nose the flattening is more marked, and frequently the outer margin of the fissure is directly JFig. 304.—Unilateral complete hare-lip, showing forward and outward rotation of the premaxilla and flat- tening of the ala nasi. (^Frovi a patient at the E-7't'li/ia Hospital.)