THE URETHRA 888 Diagnosis.—Tlie history and symptoms are usually sufficient to make the diagnosis easy. Differentiation between rupture of the posterior urethra and extraperitoneal rupture of the bladder is dif- ficult. In the former, tenderness and swelling are present around the membranous and prostatic urethra on rectal examination, and on passing a catheter there is obstruction at the posterior urethra. The bladder is distended in rupture of the urethra. Prognosis.—In fertile rupture the symptoms rapidly subside, but a stricture forms within a few months. In bulbous rupture extra- vasation and infection follow the attempted passage of urine, and the patient may succumb if operation is delayed. In less severe cases the hsematoma breaks down and fistulse form in the perineum. Stric- ture usually follows in a few weeks, but may be delayed for some years. Treatment. — In rupture of the penile urethra the canal is washed with silver-nitrate solution (1 in 10,000) and a soft catheter is tied in for four days. Metal instruments are passed after a fortnight, and this is continued regularly. In bulbous rupture a metal catheter is passed gently along the urethra, keeping to the roof. If it enters the bladder the urine is drawn off and the instrument kept in posi- tion. If it does not pass the rupture it is left in the urethra. The patient is placed in the lithotomy position and the hsematoma incised. A curved transverse incision is preferable for membranous rupture, and a median incision for bulbous. The clots are turned out and the oozing stopped by irrigation with hot lotion. If the urethra is only partly severed the torn edges are readily found and are trimmed and sutured with catgut over a catheter which is tied in position. If the urethra is completely severed the vesical end is difficult to find. The two ends are united with catgut and the perineum repaired. If the ends cannot be approximated the cavity is lightly packed and drained and a catheter fixed in place. Suprapubic drainage should be established and continued for a fortnight. Should the vesical end not be found, suprapubic cystotomy must be performed and the end identified after retrograde catheterization. Results.—The mortality of uncomplicated rupture of the urethra was 14-15 per cent, in 205 cases (Kaufmann). Treatment by retained catheter has a mortality of 18'17 per cent., and rupture of the urethra with fracture of the pelvis a mortality of 40 per cent. In a large number of cases, immediate operation has prevented the formation of stricture or reduced the contraction to a linear scar readily amenable to treatment. CALCULUS There are two varieties of this condition—(1) primary, when the stone originates in the urethra ; (2) secondary, when a migrating cal- culus is arrested in the canal. Etiology.—Primary calculi originate in phosphatic crusts that