325 ACUTE DILATATION due to external pressure. Albreclit in 1899 was able to collect 19 cases only; by 1902, Campbell Thomson published the records of 44 cases, including 5 in which he had made the post-mortem examina- tion. Since then many more cases have been published, Nicholls in 1908 analysing 225 collected cases. Etiology.—The condition may arise after operations performed on any part of the body, but most often follows those upon the abdomen. It may complicate other diseases, appear after injury, or in rare cases arise primarily as the result of indiscretion in diet. It may be met with at any age, the youngest recorded being 9 months, the oldest 75 years, but it is most common in youth and early adult life. Of the 225 cases collected by Nicholls, -17 per cent, followed operation, and of these 69 per cent, were abdominal, most often on the biliary tract, next in frequency on the kidney, then on the appendix. Dilatation may follow injury (in 17 out of 217 cases collected by Laifer, the injury in 5 being abdominal). In 40 cases it complicated some other disease—most often pneumonia or typhoid. In 11 cases spinal curvature was present. Many opinions have been advanced as to its cause : (1) Obstruc- tion of the duodenum by the superior mesenteric artery (Rokitan- sky, Albreclit) ; (2) excessive secretion (Fagge, Henry Morris) ; (3) paralysis (Campbell Thomson); (4) compression of the third portion of the duodenum by the paralysed dilated stomach (Box and Wallace) ; (5) septic intoxication. The condition probably consists primarily of a paralytic dilatation of the stomach. This is tlie conclusion arrived at by most modern writers on the subject. It may in a certain number of cases be kept up or complicated by mesenteric compression, but out of 120 cases in Lalfer's series, in only 27 was it of this type. It is stated by Stavely that a chronic dilatation of the duodenum or stomach may result from pressure of the mesenteric vessels. In one case retrocolic gastro-duodenostomy was performed for this condition. Morbid anatomy.—The post-mortem appearances in all the recorded cases are similar. The stomach is dilated into a huge V-shaped tube which may fill the whole abdomen. There is usually a sharp kink at the lesser curvature. The dilatation rarely affectn the stomach alone, but may, as previously stated, stop short at the point at which the superior mesenteric vessels cross the duodenum, and in one instance (Biiumler) there was a localized constriction here with a well-marked circular area of necrosis in the intima of the gut. But in some cases the dilatation extends lower and involves the jejunum to a greater or less degree. The walls of the stomach are thin, and the mucous membrane shows ha'morrhages. As noted by Fagge, whitish striiv are frequently observed on its peritoneal surface, the result of distension.