632 HERNIA sheath above and from the peritoneum below the semilmiar fold of Douglas. When the oozing is arrested and the edges of the peri- toneum are approximated, the fiUgree is introduced so that its inner loops rest on the posterior sheath of the rectus muscle above, and on the peritoneum below, while its outer loops lie on the peritoneum only and are deep to the abdominal muscles. The rectus is then brought well out of its sheath and is sutured to the transversalis and internal oblique muscles over the filigree, while the anterior layer of the sheath is imited to the external oblique aponeurosis. The skin incision is finally closed in the usual way. When implanting a filigree in a case in wliich the abscess has been drained without the removal of the appendix, it is essential, for obvious reasons, to effect this removal at the time of implantation. Bartlett himself goes so far as to implant a filigree in cases in which suppuration is actually present, knowing that granulation will occur through the filigree ; thus he avoids a second operation. To tliis, however, I am opposed, for the following reasons :— 1. The cases in which an appendix can be safely removed from a suppurating cavity are comparatively few. 2. The implantation requires the more extensive opening up of muscular layers, involving a fresh area of infection. 3. Cases are at times seen of secondary sinuses after the removal of a gangrenous appendix, owing either to the infection of the Hgature of the stump, or to the presence of small portions of concretion over- looked at the operation. 4. The presence of a fihgree in a suppurating area renders the process of heaUng much more prolonged. 5. There is always the chance of damage occurring to the fihgree, or of its becoming displaced in the repeated dressings necessary during healing. 6. In the process of healing, the filigree is apt to be pushed out by the granulations to a more superficial position than that which it should properly occupy. It is better surgery to allow the cavity to close, and then at a subsequent date to implant a filigree under aseptic conditions. Operative Treatment of Lumbar Hernia When occurring at Petit's triangle, hernia may often be cured by simple approximation of the muscles ; but if the gap be wide, it must also be submitted to fihgree implantation. When the hernia appears in the upper region of the loin this is the only sound method of treat- ment, especially when it is the result of an operation on the kidney. Here the muscles have been divided transversely, much of their nerve supply has been damaged, and extensive fibrosis and atrophy have