332 THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM but these fall more appropriately into the next group. It is an exceedingly rare condition, for not more than 10 cases have been recorded, all of which terminated fatally. The rupture is usually at the lesser curvature, and generally occurs as the result of spontaneous over-distension ; in at least 3 of the cases it followed vomiting. It is impossible to diagnose more than the occurrence of a per- forative lesion in the upper abdomen. Operation should be under- taken at once, the rent in the stomach closed by a continuous stitch of thin chromic catgut taking up all the coats, followed by a continuous Lambert stitch of silk, Pagenstecher, or linen thread. Traumatic Rupture of the Stomach These fall into two groups, due to—(1) direct violence, (2) indi- rect violence. 1. Direct Violence The violence may affect the stomach (a) from without, as in abdominal contusions, or (6) from within, the result of over-distension or of the passage of instruments. (a) Complete rupture of the stomach from external violence is rare ; rupture of the stomach apart from injury to other viscera is rarer still. Among 270 cases admitted to the London Hospital for abdominal contusion in the ten years 1899-1908, the stomach was ruptured in 5, and in 1 only of these was it ruptured alone, and even then the right kidney was " bruised." Gastric ruptures usually occur in " rim-over " accidents, the wheel passing over the epigastric and umbilical regions. Another and rarer cause is localized injury to the epigastric region, such as by a lack from a horse ; in this variety the stomach is more likely to suffer alone. In both it is unlikely to be injured unless full. Ruptures from external violence are usually situated ia the region of the greater curvature. Treatment.—After any abdominal contusion the patient should be placed in bed and carefully watched, the pulse and temperature being taken hourly. No morphia should be given until the question of operation has been settled, and then only if the patient has to be moved to hospital or nursing-home. If the abdomen is rigid, or contains free fluid or gas, operation should be immediate. If the signs are inconclusive, operation should be undertaken as soon as it is seen that the patient is getting worse or not rallying from the shock. The rent should be sutured and extravasated fluid carefully sponged away. The employment of drainage will depend upon the extent of peritoneal soiling or existent peritonitis. If peritonitis is present, the usual treatment for this condition must be adopted (p. 569).