INJURIES AND WOUNDS OF URETER 841 INJURIES 1. Subcutaneous Injuries and Penetrating Wounds Injuries of this nature are rare. The peritoneum is simultaneously rup- tured in 8 per cent, of cases. The duct is injured by impact against the transverse process of a lumbar vertebra or by overstretching. Urine accumulates in the retroperitoneal space or leaks into the peritoneum. Symptoms.—There are pain and tenderness, which pass ofi in a few days if the injury is uncomplicated. A swelling appears in the loin in a iew days or after some weeks. It is rounded or elongated and well detined, and may assume a large size. Suppuration takes place and the temperature rises. It is impossible to diagnose between a rupture of the ureter and rupture of the renal pelvis. A urinary fistula follows penetrating wounds of the ureter. The prognosis is good when early operation is performed. Treatment.—Operation should immediately follow diagnosis. It is difficult to find the end of the ureter when it is completely torn across, and a catheter should be passed up the duct from the bladder before commencing the operation. The ends, when identified, should be anastomosed. Nephrec- tomy may be required in rare cases for septic complications, or for the cure of intractable fistula. 2. Surgical Wounds Injury to the ureter is occasionally caused by forceps during delivery, but more frequently occurs during pelvic operations, especially on the ovaries and uterus. It may be j^artly or completely cut, or its wall or blood supply damaged, so that it sloughs and a fistula forms after some days. The fistula may open in the vagina or in the cervix, if a subtotal excision of the uterus lias been performed, or it may open at the abdominal wound. Treatment.—When the ureter has been partly cut or lacerated the edges of the \\-ound should be sutured with fine catgut. A ureteral catheter should be retained in the ureter for a week. A covering of areolar tissue or even of peritoneum greatly assists healing of the ureteral wound. An irregular tear or a complete laceration is better treated by resection of a portion of the tube, followed by anastomosis by one of the following methods:— 1. End-to-end anastomosis. 2. End-to-end anastomosis with invagination. 3. Anastomosis by means of a button or a tube of magnesium. 4. End-to-side anastomosis with or without invagination. 5. Lateral anastomosis. When a portion of the ureter has been torn away, one of the following procedures may be carried out: — 1. Implantation of the upper part of the ureter into the bladder (uretero- cysto-neostomy). 2. Uretero-ureteral anastomosis, the torn ureter being grafted with the sound ureter. 3. Formation of a cutaneous fistula. 4. Implantation into the intestine. 5. Immediate nephrectomy. Nephrectomy should, if possible, be avoided; cystitis is frequently present, and thus there is danger of ascending pyelonephritis of the remaining kidney. Results.—In 60 cases of ureteral anastomosis there were 43 complete recoveries, 9 recoveries after temporary fistula, and 8 deaths (Alksne).