27 TUBERCULOUS MASTITIS tuberculous focus present iu the body, but in 50 per cent, of cases it is secondary to tuberculosis elsewhere, as, for instance, in the supraclavicular or axillary glands, or in the lungs. Infection prob- ably usually occurs through the blood-stream or by direct extension from the adjoining ribs or pleura. But it is not rare for tuber- culosis of the cervical glands to extend downwards to the axillary glands, and a continuance of the same process of retrograde infection along the lymphatics to the breast may be responsible for some cases of mammary tubercle. It is also possible that direct infection along the ducts from the nipple may in some cases take place. In one recorded ease the disease began as an ulceration of the nipple. Morbid anatomy.—MiHary tubercles may be scattered through the breasts in cases of general tuberculosis, but this form of the disease possesses no separate im- portance. In tuberculous mastitis the breast in section presents multiple caseating foci, separated by fibrotic areas, and areas of healthy tissue. Later, these caseating areas tend to coalesce and break down, and one or more abscesses, lined by pale and flabby granulations and containing caseous pus, may be formed. These abscesses, after breaking through the skin, shrink into chronic sinuses, and in the latest stage the breast becomes a fibrous relic, riddled in all di- rections by tuberculous sinuses. Microscopic ana- tomy. •— In its earliest stage, tuberculosis of the breast presents itself microscopically in the form of dense masses of lymphocyte-like cells around the acini and along the course of the smaller ducts. The collection of round cells lies outside the layer of fibrous tissue which immediately surrounds the epithelium. Giant-cell systems may be absent. (Fig. 259.) As the Fig. 259.—Tubercle of the breast. A lobule showing early tuberculous change occu- pies almost the whole field. The pic- ture appears confused, but careful ob- servation will show as characteristic points—((/) the quiet disappearance of the epithelium ; {b) the formation of a ring of granulation tissue round each acinus; (c) the absence of giant cells, which appear later in the disease.