199 MACROGLOSSIA position (p. 21i>), the head hanging over the table, may be sufficient in some cases, but in others the upright position with division of the mandible will give better access. Again, a preliminary laryngotomy may be advisable. In every case, care must be taken to check all ha?morrhage and to bring the edges of the cavity together with deep sutures. After-treatment as in operations for cancer must be carried out. Other cystic conditions which have been described are mucous cysts, from distension of the mucous glands, and parasitic cijsts, from the deposit of the Cysticercus cellulosw or of ecliinococcus parasites. MACROGLOSSIA, OR ENLARGEMENT OF THE TONGUE The several causes of enlargement of the tongue fall conveniently under the following headings :— 1. Lymphangiomatous. 2. Muscular. 3. Inflammatory. 4. Syphilitic. 5. Mercurial. 1. Lymphangiomatous Enlargement This, the most usual form of macroglossia, is caused by a dilatation of the lymphatic spaces, with subsecjuent thickening and induration of the lingual tissues. The condition is usually congenital, but it is not invariably present at birth ; in some cases, indeed, it is not noticed until several years after. Pathology.— The normal lymph spaces of the tongue (the anterior three-fourths) are increased in size and in number. This change has generally been ascribed to some obstruction to the efferent lymphatics of the tongue, so that the existing spaces become distended. It is not by any means clear that this is the sole cause, and from the progressive spread of the disease it has been suggested, with a con- siderable amount of reason, that there is an actual overgrowth of the lymph spaces and tissues in the tongue substance, constituting an actual lymphangioma or new growth. Hutchinson suggested the term " infective lymphangioma," analogous to lupus h-mphatieus, to explain its progressive course, but it is simpler to regard the condition as comparable to neevoid or angiomatous growths of the veins and capillaries, affecting in this instance the lymph- rather than the blood- vascular system. Virchow compared the disease with elephantiasis, and the similarity is great; at the same time, the occurrence of macroglossia among the sufferers from elephantiasis Arabum is exceedingly rare.