COMPLICATIONS OF GASTRO-JEJUNOSTOMY 417 of adhesions this is impossible, then the anterior no-loop operation that I have described should be done (p. 408). The anastomotic opening should be large. The appendix should be removed if the condition of the patient permits. Treatment must not cease with tlie performance of gastro-enterostomy (p. 353). When perforation has occurred, laparotomy with immediate suture must be carried out. This is the life-saving measure ; but the causes leading to the production of the ulcer may still be acting, for in several cases after the successful suture of a perforation another has occurred at a later date. The condition of the stomach and the size of the anastomotic opening are to be investigated ; if the latter is too small or has closed, the defect must be remedied if possible. Tlie appendix sliould, if possible, be removed. During recovery, means should be taken to prevent hyperacidity ; and if the operation is found to have been faulty, rectification of this should be discussed. In the second group of causes, prolonged medical treat- ment should be tried. If this fails, operation should be performed, the anastomosis excised, and a fresh no-loop operation done or both limbs implanted into the stomach. In the third group, the viscera should be separated, the opening in the colon closed, and a fresh gastro-jejunostomy performed. 4. Intestinal obstruction After posterior operations, internal hernia has occurred into the lesser sac (Moynihan, Hartmann, Ashurst). This is to be prevented by suturing the edge of the opening in tlie mesocolon to the stomach. Strangulation has taken place beneath the loop formed in anterior gastro-jejunostomy, more rarely in posterior. Barker recorded a case following the latter in which nearly the whole of the small intestine had passed through, and had in addition become twisted on itself. In anterior loop gastro-enterostomy the colon may be compressed. 5. Diarrhoea occasionally occurs after gastro-jejunostomy. It has been noticed most often in cases of carcinoma. Its causation is unknown. As a rule it soon passes off, but has been fatal. In one case which proved fatal, Kelling could discover no cause post mortem. 6. Contracture and closure of the opening is due to gastro- jejunal ulceration. It more often followed operation performed with the aid of Murphy's button, with its necessary ulceration of the margins of the opening. If heahng by first intention takes place, closure will not occur. The inner layer of suture should be of absorbable material to avoid late infection. Anterior versus posterior gastro-enterostomy.—The posterior gastro-jejunostomy is the operation of choice, for the following reasons: 1. It affords better drainage of the stomach, inasmuch as the posterior is also the inferior wall. 2. A higher part 2/;