1055 TUBAL PREGNANCY subtotal hysterectomy as well. Lastly, wliere botli appendages are so diseased as to require removal, and the uterus is the seat of chronic inflammatory changes, producing menorrhagia and continual discharge, total hysterectomy should, in addition, be carried out. TUBAL GESTATION £tiology—The cause of tubal gestation is unknown. Investi- gation of early cases shows the tube to be normal except at the site of the pregnancy. Repeated tubal pregnancy occurs so frecjuently as to indicate some jjeculiarity in certain individuals inclining them to this disaster. The event most commonly occurs either in first pregnancies or after some years of sterility. The suggestions of etiological relationship to salpingitis, to tubal stenosis or diverticula, or to the passage of the ovum from the ovary of the opposite side are not supported by research. Pathology.—The oosperm burrows through the tubal epithelium and embeds itself in the muscular wall by means of its trophoblast. It develops there in a cavity known as the gestation sac, formed in the maternal tissues by the destructive action of the trophoblastic cells. The small track into the tube wall is early occluded by fibrinous de- posit, so that the gestation is at first entirely intramural in position. (Fig. 611.) Primary rupture of the gestation sac.—The continued growth of the ovum leads to rupture of the gestation sac usually within eight weeks of the beginning of gestation. Rupture is brought about (1) by the erosion of the trophoblast and (2) by extravasation of blood into the gestation sac when some large maternal vessel is opened up by the invading trophoblastic cells. Primary rupture of the gestation sac may occur in one of five directions. 1. Intraperitoneal rujdure.—The sac perforates through the serous covering of the tube into the peritoneal cavity. This disaster, usually seen in isthmic gestation, because of the small size of the tube there, produces the most severe symptoms. Bleeding is profuse, and may cause death in two or three liours. This is the more striking because the gestation is often less than a month old, the patient bleeding to death from a tubal enlargement not bigger than a marble. (Fig. 612.) 2. Intraligamentous rupture.—Occasionally the sac perforates between the layers of the mesosalpinx. A broad-ligament ha-matoma results, and may attain a large size, but the bleeding is much less rapid than in the preceding variety and the symptoms are proportionately less severe.