MAMMARY ACTINOMYCOSIS 29 spontaneous cure, and, if untreated, will probably lead to multiple sinuses persisting for years. The continued discharge may under- mine the health and lead to lardaceous disease. In the absence of other tuberculous lesions in the body, the prognosis after removal of the breast is good. The subsequent development of tuberculosis in the other breast is very rare, but 20 per cent, of patients who have suffered from mammary tuberculosis die ultimately of phthisis. Treatment.—If a chronic abscess is the only sign of disease in the breast, it may suffice to open it, to scrape it, and to allow it to heal from the bottom. But if, as is usual, there are multiple foci, it is wiser to amputate the breast. The axillary glands, if markedly enlarged, should be removed at the same time. Partial resection of the breast is justifiable in young women if the disease is definitely confined to certain lobules. No experience as to the effects of tuberculin in mammary tubercle is yet available. Unless it becomes possible to make the diagnosis earlier than at present, it seems unlikely that tuberculin treatment will supersede operation. It is stated that Bier's treatment by passive hypertemia has given good results (see p. 18). ACTINOMYCOSIS Actinomycosis is one of tlie rarest mammary diseases. It may reach the breast primarily through a wound or .abrasion, or secondarily by extension from the lungs and pleura, or by metastasis from other organs. In its early stage the disease presents itself as one or more areas of local induration indistinguishable from the vague indurations of chronic mastitis, or as a definite rounded tumour. The axillary glands are usually unaffected. Later, at various points over the indurated area, softening may be detected. The skin at these points becomes reddened, glazed, and thinned, and finally gives way. A number of discharging sinuses are left, burrowing in various directions through the shrunken breast, and exuding pus containing the charac- teristic and diagnostic " iodoform granules." The disease may spread by metastasis to other regions of the body. Treatment.—In the early stage the free administration of potassium iodide in large doses is indicated. Later, if the disease is primary, complete excision of the affected breast is probably the best treatment. If the disease is well localized the affected part may be resected. GUMMA OF THE BREAST In the tertiary stage of syphilis, localized deposits of syphilitic granulation tissue may occur in the breast as in most other parts of the body. Gummata of the breast are, however, not common. They may be single or multiple, and are rarely found except in association