533 CARCINOMA OF THE COLON If peritonitis is present, there is muscular rigidity and fixation, and if perforation has occurred the whole abdomen is uniformly blown up and yields a high-pitched, drummy note. Pain is not always referred to the position of the obstruction ; when peritonitis is present it is generally referred to the seat of infection. Vomiting is a late symptom, and, although it may be persistent, it seldom becomes stercoraceous. Hiccup is often very intractable. The patient may linger on for some days in this condition, but ulti- mately succumbs to toxaemia or to exhaustion from the persistent vomiting and loss of fluid. Cancer of the ccecum (Fig. 431).—A palpable tumour is more frequently to be made out when the cancer affects the caecum, and flatulent distension and exaggerated peristalsis of the lower coils of the ileum are often detectable. The pain frequently bears a distinct relation to the taking of food. Cancer of the transverse colon.—When a tumour is palpable, it i/ centrally placed, and is usually freely movable. It may be of con siderable size, as it is not uncommon for the omentum to be rolled up and incorporated in the growth, or for the lesser omentum and even the stomach to be invaded. The distension is most evident in the right flank. Cancer of the sflenic flexure.—As the growth is under cover of the ribs, it cannot be palpated. The distension affects the transverse colon, and the caecum is sometimes very greatly distended. Peri- stalsis is usually too feeble to be recognized. Pain is often worst before defsecation. Cancer of the descending and pelvic colon.—There is usually a palpable tumour in the left iliac fossa, which may be fixed by contraction of the mesocolon, but in some cases is so movable that it can be pushed towards the middle of the abdomen or even to the right side. The tumour can sometimes be felt on bimanual examination, or it may be seen with the sigmoidoscope, or its position can be recognized by X-ray examination after injecting an emulsion of bismuth into the bowel. The whole length of the colon is distended, the csecum often being blown up to an enormous extent, and in rare cases the distension involves also the small intestine, producing a characteristic " ladder pattern." It is in cancer of the pelvic colon that balloon- ing of the rectum is most frequently present. Constipation is more marked than in cancer Irigher up, but it alternates, or may even be associated with persistent and painful tenesmus and the passage of mucus. Complications—In addition to complete obstruction of the bowels, which is sooner or later an almost inevitable sequel to malig- nant disease of the colon, various other complications may arise. The