302 THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM The stomach is divided into three lympJiatic areas, viz. the lesser curvature, the greater curvature, and the fundus. The lymphatics from the lesser curvature and its immediate neighbourhood pass into the lower coronary group of glands. Occasionally a vessel passes by this group to end in the upper coronary set (Fig. 387, p. 382). In addition, vessels from the upper part of the pyloric canal rim upwards into the lesser omentum, sometimes into one or two suprapyloric glands whose efferents with the uninterrupted vessels pass downwards to end in the right suprapancreatic glands. Occasionally a vessel passes behind the duodenum to end in a gland behind the pancreas close to the common bile-duct. The vessels from the fundus close to the cardia pass to the para- cardial glands, and thence to the upper coronary set. Those from the remainder of the fundus down to a point in the greater curvature immediately below the oesophagus pass to the splenic glands. The right portion of the greater curvature drains into the right gastro- epiploic glands. Nerves of the stomach.—The stomach receives fibres from both vagi and also through the solar plexuses from the 7th, 8th, and 9th dorsal nerves. Bacteriology.—According to Miller and to Harvey Gushing, the healthy stomach, when empty, contains no micro-organisms. In the duodenum the number of micro-organisms is small, but they become more numerous lower down in the intestine. This is in accord- ance with surgical experience. Operations upon the alimentary canal in the upper abdomen as a whole have a lower death-rate than those in the lower. These facts are of the utmost surgical importance. It is possible to render the stomach and upper part of the small intestine sterile, and thus to lessen the danger of extensive operations in this region, in cases in wliich there is no obstruction. If, however, the stomach and duodenum are prevented from emptying themselves, their contents teem with organisms. Clinical examination.—In the investigation of suspected disease the history should be taken with the greatest care, and the patient allowed, as far as possible, to tell his own tale, being guided skilfully along the necessary channels. It is important to elicit the initial symptom, the first alteration from normal which attracted the attention of the patient. Was the onset sudden or gradual ? In some cases, pain is the first and most important symptom through- out, both in acute and in chronic cases ; in others, the sudden vomiting of a large quantity of blood when in apparent health, the passage of blood by the rectum, loss of appetite, or a continuous and inexplicable loss of weight, or anaemia. In a few of the cases of perforation of a