MAMMARY CANCER: NATURAL REGRESSION 69 of fibrous tissue. The arm is thus completely cut off from the lymphatic circulation. No collateral circulation can be established, and the limb necessarily falls into a condition of lymphatic oedema. The treatment of this condition is discussed at p. 95. Serous effusions in breast cancer—The collection of fluid in the serous cavities is a sign that the patient has at most but a few months to live. Sometimes pleuritic effusion appears only a day or two before death, and in such cases it is due to terminal heart- failure. But generally it appears to depend upon lymphatic obstruc- tion, and more especially upon permeation of the subj)leural lymphatic plexus, which may be completely injected with cancer cells (so-called lymphangitis carcinomatosa). This condition is recognizable post mortem by the naked eye. The pressure of enlarged cancerous glands must also be regarded as a cause of pleuritic effusion. Similar factors are at work in causing ascites, and the distension of the abdomen may be extreme. It is thus obvious that lymphatic obstruction is often the proximal cause of death in breast cancer. Serous effusions causing distress should be treated by aspiration, but sometimes the interference is not worth while. Natural regression or repair in breast cancer.— The close observation of breast cancer has shown that occasionally, in cases running their natural course, and in the absence of all treat- ment, subcutaneous secondary deposits may shrink and disappear, enlarged glands may become impalpable, cancerous ulcers may com- pletely heal, and osseous union may take place in bones fractured as the result of secondary deposits. One case recorded by Pearce Gould presented numerous thoracic sub- cutaneous nodules, enlarged and hard glands above the clavicles and in the axilhe, spontaneous fracture of the left femur, and great dyspnoea and emaciation. All the deposits spontaneously disappeared within a few months, and the patient remained well for at least three years, when she was lost sight of. The most probable explanation of these facts is that certain pro- cesses of repair, which in exceptional cases may become clinically manifest by the disappearance of massive secondary deposits, are a normal part of the cancer process. In a mass of cancer cells, owing to nutritional difficulties, the central portions sooner or later become fibrotic and degenerate, a fact clinically shown by the almost invariable ulceration which occurs in primary growths and by the umbiUcation found in secondary deposits in the liver. The process of repair tends to spread fi'om the centre of the mass to its circumference, and its ultimate outcome, unless the death of the patient intervenes, is the replacement of the mass of cancer cells by a fibrous scar. Thus in chronic cases the older secondary deposits may be reduced to fibroid