88 THE BREAST 6. During tlie operation, precautions should be taken against the possibility of epigastric invasion of the abdomen. Choice of cases for operation.—Now that the immediate risk of operation is under 2 per cent., it is unfair to refuse operation unless the case is evidently liojjeless. Apparently advanced cases sometimes do well, and, even if internal recurrence takes place, the patient may be saved the distress of an ulcerated growth. In early cases operation should be urged, in later cases offered. Except in rare instances as a palliative measure for the removal of a foul ulcerated mass, operation should be refused— (a) When the primary growth has become attached to the bony thorax. (b) In the presence of cancer en cuirasse, or of subcutaneous nodules or skin infiltration situated more than 2 in. from the primary growth. (c) If there is a fixed mass of gTowth in the axilla, evidently adherent to its walls. (d) If there is marked oedema of the arm. (e) If the supraclavicular glands are enlarged, hard, and fixed. (/) If there is evidence of visceral or bone metastases. (g) If there is incurable constitutional disease-—tuberculosis or diabetes, for example—likely to be fatal in a few years at most, or to lead to a postoperative fatality. (//) In the acute forms of carcinoma. Examination prior to operation.—Remember to examine the spine for angular curvature, the epigastric parietes for nodules, and the pelvis for deposits in the ovaries and in Douglas's pouch, in addition to the usual preoperative medical examination. Preparation of the patient. ^—Since massage of the mammary region must tend to favour dissemination, no compress should be employed. The axilla should be dry-shaved overnight, and the whole field painted with iodine a few hours before operation, and again upon the table. During the operation the arm must not be forcibly stretched upwards so as to injure the brachial plexus. The whole operative field must, as far as is possible, be covered up with relays of hot towels. The best ansesthetic is C.E. mixture, accompanied by a feeble stream of oxygen. Pure ether is inadvisable because by inducing very free hemorrhage it may be the indirect cause of postoperative shock. Technique of the operation (Handley's method).— The skin incision is only just deep enough to open up the subcu- taneous fat without extending through it into the neighbourhood of the deep fascia. It consists of three parts :— 1. A ring incision, as first practised by Mitchell Banks, 4 to 5 in.