HERNIA 654 fistula may be rapidly made in this way, and the loop with its mesentery may be removed on recovery of the patient at the end of three or four days ; the anastomosis may be deferred till later unless the fistula is high up in the bowel, when it should be done at the earliest possible date. It may even be done at the time of the first operation ; in this case a lateral anastomosis by means of a Murphy's or a Jaboulay's button is the method indicated. Where the case is so urgent as to demand it, the loop must be secured to the skin incision and the Paul's tube inserted without the above elaboration. The making of an intestinal fistula in situ in the case of femoral hernia is attended by certain difficulties : the proximity of the femoral and saphenous veins renders the femoral canal a bad site for the discharge of faeces ; moreover, the canal is often too long and narrow to allow of satisfactory evacuation of the bowel, or its reduction from within by laparotomy, when swathed in gauze. In such a case, where the patient is able to stand it, the abdomen may be opened above the pubes ; the gangrenous loop and its mesentery are sur- rounded by a double ligature and divided between, the mass being cut away. The cut ends are then washed, swabbed over with pure carbolic acid, washed again, and seized with a clamp and drawn through the wound into the abdomen, the remaining bowels being kept out of the way as far as possible ; finally, the ends are brought out of the abdominal woimd, and are treated by anastomosis, or with Paul's tubes, in the manner above described. After-treatment of strangulated hernia.—The in- dications are—to combat shock, support the patient's strength, and provide against complications. In a quite uncomplicated case nothing more is, as a rule, necessary than to secure sleep and provide fluid diet. The bowels should be moved at fitrst only by enemata, and after forty-eight hours by calo- mel given in grain doses every hour up to 5-8 gr., this being assisted when needful by a dose of salts, or Apenta or other mineral water. Strychnine hypodermically or nux vomica by the mouth will lessen the chances of paralytic ileus ; by some, pituitary extract or eserine salicylate given hypodermically is thought to be also of use. Where there has been severe strangulation with fseculent vomit, infusion with normal saline or, better still, dextrose saline intra- venously (2-5 per cent.) or per rectum (8 per cent.), should be practised. Two or three pints may be given intravenously; but, per rectum the continuous method should be used, the solution being introduced at the rate of half a pint an hour, till the blood pressure is sufiiciently raised. The addition of adrenalin solution, 1 drachm to the pint, will often help considerably in the intravenous method. If not done before operation, the stomach should be washed out as