RECTUM AND ANAL CANAL anastomosis is established, therefore, between the portal and the systemic venous circulations. Lymphatics.—These, playing such an important part in cancer, are best considered in connexion with that disease (p. 717). Anamnesis and examination.—Methodical inquiry should be made into the history of fain, Jicemorrhage, discharge, frequency of hoivel action, the shape and size of the motions, and the presence of any swelling at or near the anal margin. Pain, as distinguished from mere discomfort, is often absent in rectal diseases until some complication arises, but is usually present in lesions of the anal canal. Pain from mobility of the coccyx and pain referred from diseases of the urinary or genital tract must be differentiated from that of rectal origin. Hcemorrhage of rectal origin is bright red, but bright-red blood occasionally arises from diseases higher in the alimentary tract. Discharge from the anal margin is constant, whereas from the rectum it is only voided in response to the desire for defsecation. The normal frequency of bowel action should be ascertained, and any departure from this noted. Constipation causes some diseases, results from others. In proctitis and ulceration a characteristic spurious diarrhcsa occurs ; urgent calls to stool, frequently repeated, especially in the early morning, expel little but flatus, mucus, and perhaps blood; the motions may or may not be fjecal-stained, or may even contain some feeces. After expulsion of all secretion from the inflamed surface several hours of comparative comfort may ensue. The shape of the motion is determined by the last orifice through which it passes, i.e. the anus; therefore narrowing of the lumen of the bowel does not alter the shape of the motion unless the anal sphincteric power is destroyed. Hypertrophy of the sphincter and abnormal, spasmodic action, which occur in some diseases of the anal margin, may flatten the motion or give it a tapering extremity. In stricture of the bowel, simple or malignant, the typical motion consists of small isolated fragments. Though a carefully obtained history will often suggest the correct diagnosis, visual examination of the perineum is always, and digital examination of the rectum usually, necessary. For the latter, the well-lubricated finger should be inserted very gently and slowly, pressure being made away from any painful condition of the anal margin. The diagnosis of many rectal and anal diseases is possible without further examination, but visual inspection of the interior of the bowel is sometimes necessary. A duckbill speculum permits efficient inspection of the anal canal and lower rectum ; for the upper rectum the sigmoidoscope is necessary. The sigmoidoscope (Fig. 482) consists essentially of a metal cylindrical tube fitted with an obturator to facilitate its introduction, and graduated on its exterior to indicate the distance passed into the bowel. When the obturator is withdrawn a long rod carrying a light at its distal end is intro- duced into the tube. The proximal end of the rod fits into the tube by a metal collar caiTying the electric terminals, and closed by a glass window fitted in a metal rim. A small hand-bellows attached to the proximal end of the tube permits inflation of the rectum during examination. The instrument, warmed and well lubricated, may be introduced with or without anaesthesia. In nervous patients, or those with painful affections, an anaesthetic is necessary. The bowels must be previously thoroughly emptied by aperients and enemata. If blood, discharge, or faeces obscure the view, they may be removed by cotton-wool pledgets on the applicator.