8i8 THE KIDNEY should be removed and the lumen of the ureter examined for stenosis. When an aberrant vessel is present, but not closely related to the point of obstruction, it need only be divided if it interferes with the plastic operation for the relief of the obstruction. If the vessel is the cause of the obstruction, it should be divided between two ligatures and the lumen of the ureter examined for stenosis. Numerous operations are performed for congenital and acquired malformations of the ureter and dilatation of the renal pelvis, such as pyeloplication (Israel), orthopaedic resection by removing the part of the pelvis and kidney below the level of the outlet (Albarran), re- section of a large triangular flap of the pelvis (Thomson Walker), anastomosis of the ureter, or pyelo-ureteral anastomosis, which may be lateral implantation of the cut ureter (uretero-pyeloneostomy) or direct anastomosis of a hydronephrotic sac with the bladder (nephro- cysto-anastomosis). Finally, there are plastic operations on stric- tures and valves, such as splitting of a valve and uretero-pyeloplasty. Nephrostomy, i.e. the incision and permanent drainage of the sac, is sometimes performed. Primary nephrectomy is indicated when the sac is very large and its wall thin and fibroid, but only in cases where it has been proved that a second kidney is present and efficient. Secondary nephrectomy is required when conservative operations have failed. TUMOURS OP THE KIDNEY Benign Growths Benign growths form less than 7 per cent, of renal growths. Adenoma is met with as a single, rarely multiple, cherry-sized subcapsular tumour of greyish-white or pink colour and with a well-defined fibrous capsule. It usually occurs in kidneys the seat of clironic interstitial nephritis. The microscopical structure may be acini lined with cylindrical epithelium, and containing papillary formations (papillary adenoma) or solid or hollow masses of cj^lindrical epithelium (tubular adenoma). Lipoma is a small {very rarely large) single or multiple subcapsular tumour. Fibroma forms fibrous nodules in the cortex or medulla. Leiomyoma is rare, and ori- ginates in the smooth muscle of the capsule. Small benign tumours are found post mortem; large growths are indistinguishable clinically from malignant growths. Malignant Growths The varieties met with are—(1) carcinoma, (2) sarcoma, (3) hyper- nephroma, (4) mixed tumours of embryonic type. The great majority of renal growths are found under the age of 5 or over 40 years. The right ludney is more frequently affected ; bilateral growths are rare. Men are more often affected than women (227 to 73, Albarran). Etiology.—The growths in infancy and childhood are congenital.