402 THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM ingestion, while delay occurs in duodenal fistula and the discharge is often bile-stained. Prognosis.—This depends upon the causation. Patients have lived as long as thirty-five years after the formation of the fistula. If the pylorus is unobstructed and the fistula not large, spontaneous heaUng will occur ; thus, it takes place in most postoperative cases and in those following the perforation of ulcers on the anterior surface of the stomach. Treatment—^Eesort to operative treatment should not be hurried unless the escape of gastric contents is great. In these cases, after packing the external opening with gauze and thoroughly cleaning the skin in its neighbourhood, an elliptical incision should be made around it, the peritoneal cavity opened, the fistulous tract dissected down to the stomach, and the opening closed. If the fistulse is due to malignant disease, or the condition of the patient will not permit of extensive operation, jejunostomy may be performed. Where the condition is not interfering with the general health, it may be left in the hope that it will eventually close. Internal Fistulas These may be the result of injuries (usually operative), or of disease, primary or secondary. The communication is most frequently with the colon, more rarely with the gall-bladder, duodenum (Plate 91), lung, pancreas, urinary tract, or oesophagus. Gastro-colic fistula is usually the result of carcinoma (65 out of 84 cases, Chavannaz), mostly of the stomach, much less fre- quently of the colon. It may result from simple ulcer, tuberculous disease of colon, perigastric abscess due to disease of neighbouring organs, or ulcer of the jejunum following gastro-jejunostomy. The fistulous opening in the stomach is most common at the greater curvature near the pyloric end ; that in the colon, in the middle of the transverse part. Symptoms.—The condition may exist without giving rise to symptoms, but in the majority of cases they are definite and consist of faecal vomiting and diarrhoea, the motions containing undigested food which in some cases appears soon after it has been taken. In many cases a similarity between motion and vomit has been noticed. Diagnosis may be confirmed, if this is necessary, by distending the stomach or colon with air. No difficulty arises except in hysterical women. Sir Frederick Treves recorded an example—a woman of 20 vomited formed fseces, and an enema of methylene bhie a few minutes after it was given; at operation, all abdominal organs were normal. The patient had undergone two operations previously. Similar cases have been reported by others.