449 HIRSCHSPRUNG'S DISEASE although its recognition may be delayed till later cliildliood, or even till adult life. When the compensatory hypertrophy fails to overcome the dis- tension, the symptoms appear in early infancy and tend to become acute. The most constant and characteristic symptom is obstinate constipation dating from birth, the bowels failing to move for several days at a time in spite of the free use of purgatives. Rectal injections usually afford temporary relief, but it is only by their constant repeti- tion that the action of the bowels can be secured. The motions are, as a rule, small, soft, and very offensive, and some flatus may be passed. Occasionally small, hard scybalous masses are removed by an enema. Flatulent distension is soon manifest, the abdomen becoming pro- minent, particularly in its upper part, and the lower ribs being raised and pushed outwards, so that the abdomen appears to be lengthened in contrast with the shortened thorax. The distended coils may form a pattern when a peristaltic wave passes along them, and loud borborygmi may be heard. Sometimes the rectimi is ballooned, sometimes it is contracted as if in a state of muscular spasm, but there is never any organic obstruction. Vomiting is not a constant symptom, and it almost never becomes fsecal. • The pressure of the distended bowel upon the diaphragm inter- feres with respiration and with the heart's action. The patient becomes drowsy and Ustless, emaciates rapidly, and, unless relieved, dies of toxaemia or from the effects of perforation. When the hypertrophy keeps pace with the dilatation, the symptoms are less urgent. Constipation may be as obstinate, but the abdominal distension is less marked, great quantities of flatus are passed, and there is seldom vomiting. The general nutrition is defective, and as the patient is constantly absorbing toxins from the colon, he becomes thin, sallow, and depressed. Sooner or later, however, compensation fails, and more acute symptoms of obstruction supervene, death resulting from toxaemia or from peritonitis following perforation. Treatment—In early cases in which there is reason to believe that the compensatory hypertrophy is efficient, medical measures designed to improve the muscidar tone of the colon and to prevent fermentation of the contents are indicated. Such drugs as strych- nine, belladonna, pituitary extract, and intestinal antiseptics may be administered. The frequent and systematic use of large high enemata is of great value, and it may be supplemented by abdominal massage and the use of electrical treatment. When compensation is defective, or when medical measures have failed, recourse must be had to operative treatment, and this should be undertaken before the patient is suffering from toxaemia. •2d