586 HERNIA weight of its contents it becomes stretched, and tends to grow in length rather than in width, provided no pressure is brought to bear upon it from without. 1. Thickening of the walls.—This increase in size demands an increase in nutrition; the sac soon becomes adherent to the surrounding structures, develops new vessels on its outer surface, and becomes very much thicker; in hernias of large dimensions and long standing the walls may measure as much as an eighth to a quarter of an inch in thiclaiess, and assume the consistence of the pericardium. These changes are chiefly seen in irreducible omental hernias, where the omentum has become widely adherent to the sac wall, which thus receives a blood supply from within as well as from without. Thickening is also favoured by the chronic congestion produced by the pressure of an ill-fitting truss upon the veins about the neck of the sac. 2. Thickening below the neck.— The changes above mentioned are frequently most marked just below the neck of the sac, especially if a truss has been worn, this part becoming densely adherent to the tissues about it and often developing into an almost fibro-cartilaginous ring, while the true neck and the structures composing the inguinal or femoral canal become thinned out and matted together owing to the pressure of the truss. In such cases the omentum in the sac is usually adherent to the entire circumference of the neck. 3. Cartilaginous and calcareous degeneration. — These are only met with in hernial sacs of large dimensions and long standing. The areas of degeneration are usually discrete, and seldom involve the entire sac wall. 4. Obliteration of the neck,—Occasionally a sac containing fluid is seen in which the original communication with the abdominal cavity has been cut off. The cause is to be sought in some antecedent inflammation at the neck of the sac by which the passage has been sealed. The pressure of a truss on a strand of imreduced omentum may be the cause ; occasionally the obliteration appears to be spon- taneoiis, no truss having been worn. Such a fortunate result is only possible in sacs having very narrow necks ; the condition is termed " hydrocele of a hernial sac." 5. Cysts in hernial sacs.—In certain cases a hernial sac will be found to include one or more cysts containing fluid, giving the im- pression of a second sac within the first. These cysts will be found to have no connexion with the abdominal cavity or the tunica vaginalis. They are developed in or between the sac walls and its coverings. They are commonly due to lymphatic dilatation or to subserous effusions resulting from irritation or injury, and have no pathological importance.