6 THE BREAST At two periods of life, normal activities of the mammary gland have been dignified by the name of mastitis. 1. During the first few days of life in either sex the breasts may become swollen, and a few drops of serous fluid or of true milk may be discharged from the nipple [mastitis neonatorum). This mastitis of new-born cliildren, like the jaundice and the cutaneous hypersemia which accompany it, is probably due to the first onslaught of bacteria upon the aseptic babe, the bacteria of the skin penetrating some distance along the ducts of the breast. It has no clinical importance and should be let alone ; unwise and active treatment, such as massage, may prolong and aggravate the condition. A few rare cases are on record where infantile lactation has persisted for several weeks, and in one case for over three months. 2. With the onset of puberty, both in boys and in girls, the undeveloped breasts may become tender and swollen for some days or weeks [mastitis adolescentium). At the same time a scanty serous discharge exudes from the nipple, and the axillary glands become unduly palpable. No treatment is required for this condition, which derives its only importance from the parental anxiety it is apt to cause. At puberty in the female, owing to the rapid development of the acini, and the deposition of fat between the growing lobes, the breast begins to assume its characteristic form and size. The onset of pregnancy leads to further marked changes in the gland, for the details of which a work on obstetrics should be consulted. Many new alveoli are formed, and the cell proliferation proceeds with such rapidity that until parturition initiates lactation the alveoli lose their lumen and consist of solid cords of cells; the breast becomes coarsely granular to the touch, the skin of the areola dark; and in the later months of pregnancy a watery fluid exudes from the nipple. The establishment of lactation is accompanied by general con- gestion and swelling of the breasts, and sometimes by local tender- ness and elevation of the temperature, and soreness in the axillae. These activities may easily pass into acute mastitis. Involution.—When lactation is over, the vascularity of the gland rapidly diminishes, and the lobules become much reduced in size and complexity by atrophy of their constituent alveoli. These changes make further progress at the chmacteric. At this time also the fatty tissue of the breast often atrophies, while its fibrous tissue, increasing in amount, contracts upon and causes gradual atrophy or even complete disappearance of many of the glandular alveoH. The characteristic withered and flattened breast of old age is thus produced.