356 THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM in diagnosis if attention be paid to the history, the onset of the symptoms, and the appearance of the patient. In acute intestinal obstruction there is the same sudden onset of agonizing pain, but vomiting is a constant feature and the localiza- tion of the pain is different. Acute dilatation of the stomach and gastric volvulus should not be confused with perforation of the viscus. Rare conditions that have misled are mesenteric thrombosis, ptomaine poisoning, abdominal crises in diabetes (Downes and O'Brien), gastric crises of tabes, and hsemorrhage into the ovary at about the time of menstruation (Waring). Cases have occurred in which there has been a sudden onset of severe abdominal pain accompanied by rigidity in patients the subjects of gastric ulcer, in whom at operation no perforation was discovered, and other cases in which no cause was found for the symptoms. The phenomenon was called " pseudo-perforation " by Manges, who recorded a case of this nature. Very rarely, as in the case recorded by Moore, another lesion is present; in this case perforated gastric ulcer was complicated by acute appendicitis. Prognosis.—Death is inevitable in over 95 per cent, of the cases not treated by operation. The prognosis depends upon the time after perforation at which operation can be performed ; if the patient is seen within the first twenty-four hours the death-rate should be not more than 10 per cent. Sinclair Kirk has recorded 11 cases in which he operated, with recovery in all. In 8 cases the operation was done within 5 hours of perforation, in 1 at 7, in 1 at 10, and in 1 at 20 hours. The death-rate at the present time in large numbers of cases is about 50 per cent. Thus, Gross and Gross collected the reports of 369 operations with a death-rate of nearly 51 per cent. The death-rate at St. Thomas's Hospital (Sargent) for the fifteen years up to 1904 was 55 per cent., at St. Bartholomew's between 1897 and 1905, 49 per cent. (69 cases). During the years 1899-1908 there were 132 cases of perforated gastric ulcers operated upon at the London Hospital, with a death-rate of 67 per cent.; but of this number less than 5 were within 12 hours of perforation. During the last nine years I have operated upon 28 cases, with 16 re- coveries ; of these 10 were seen within 24 hours of perforation—at 4 (2 cases), 6, 9, 10, 11, 12 (2 cases), 18, 22 hours—and recovery took place in all; the remainder were over this period—from 26 hours to 3 weeks. Treatment.—Abdominal section should be performed at once ; no time should be wasted in waiting for " shock " to pass off, for this will be best relieved by immediate operation. It must be remembered that if the case is seen early there may be no shock. The abdomen should be opened in the middle line. In many cases, as soon as the peritoneum is reached it is seen to be blown out