NERVOUS AFFECTIONS AND THE BLADDER 88i The following varieties of nervous affections of the bladder are observed: — 1. Active incontinence.—(a) Reflex micturition, (h) Incomplete reflex micturition. 2. Passive incontinence.—(a) Distension with overflow. (6) Collapse with outflow. When the bladder is cut off from the control of the cerebrum it acts automatically. A quantity of urine collects, the reflex of micturition is initiated, and the bladder empties itself. This is repeated at intervals (" flush- ing-tank action "). The condition occurs in lesions above the lumbar centre, and, as Midler has shown, in lesions involving the lumbar centre also. There is sometimes uncontrollable spasm of the bladder. The bladder may be fully or partly distended, and the urine is passed involuntarily by bladder contraction from time to time. In passive incon- tinence the contraction of the bladder is abolished and the outflow is purely mechanical. The bladder may be fully distended or it may be collapsed, but it is seldom, if ever, completely empty, a certain amount of urine collecting before the elastic resistance of the urethra is overcome. Changes in the bladder in nervous diseases.—Cystitis is frequently present, the infection being usually introduced by the catheter. The cystitis becomes chronic, and the urine is frequently alkaline and ammoniacal. Pliosphatic calculi form rapidly. Trabeeulation of the bladder is observed in tabes dorsalis, and I have found it also in atony from postero-lateral sclerosis and from spina bifida, but it was absent in cases of multiple sclerosis and supralumbar myelitis. It also occurs in idiopathic atony of the bladder. In my opinion, the trabeeulation in these cases is due to atrophy and not to hypertrophy of the bladder muscle. Rarely, in spinal disease, ulceration of the bladder may develop and rapidly perforate. Bladder symptoms in special nervous diseases.—The bladder is more frequently affected in tabes than in other forms of nervous disease, and the vesical symptoms may appear when the symptoms of spinal disease are only partly developed. There is gradually increasing difficulty in micturition—delay in commencing, loss of power of projection, intermittent flow, and after-dribbling ; there may be a diminished desire. A varying quantity of residual urine is found, and there is widespread trabeeula- tion. The atony increases until there is complete retention, or this may rapidly develop at the commencement of the bladder symptoms. Nocturnal enuresis is usually present. After a varying period of weeks or months the tone of the bladder frequently improves, so that there are 8 or 10 oz. of residual urine, and the rest is passed voluntarily. Vesical and urethral crises are rare. In acute and chronic spinal meningitis and acute and chronic myelitis, and in multiple sclerosis, the characteristic change is gradually increasing atony of the bladder, and eventually complete retention develops, and drib- bling of urine from overflow follows. This may continue, but usually the bladder acts automatically after a time. Spasmodic contraction of the bladder is occasionally observed, but this later passes into the atonic con- dition described. In spina bifida affecting the sacral canal, atony of the bladder may be observed. Atony of the bladder without obstruction or signs of nervous disease.—I have described a series of cases under this title. The condition occurs in young and middle-aged patients, and is unconnected witli venereal disease. There is gradual onset of difliculty in 3e