1/8 THE TONGUE Small circular or oval patches appear on the dorsum of the tongue, always in front of the sulcus terminalis. At first the size of a pea, these piatches gradually enlarge, forming smooth red areas from which the filiform papillge have been shed, the fungiform occasionally stand- ing out the more prominently in consequence. The margin of these patches is distinctly redder than the centre, is sharply defined and limited by a whitish or yellowish border, a very characteristic fea- ture. The patches are usually multiple, and may extend from the dorsum of the tongue on to its under-surface, the result being that the organ has the appearance of being cut up into irregular areas not unlike those present on a map—hence the term "geographical tongue." The affection is exceedingly chronic, and does not respond to treatment. According to Parrot, each patch or ring has a life-history of seven days, spreading to the periphery and gradually disappearing, after which a fresh one makes its appearance. Nothing definite is known of its etiology. Parasites, syphilitic and other, have been the causes accredited by many writers, but there is no evidence to w^arrant these assumptions. It is essentially an inflammatory con- dition ; according to Vanlair and Johnstone, a primary affection of the derma, " a subacute papillitis," possibly in some obscure way Tinder the influence of nervous irritation or change. Few symptoms are complained of; indeed, in many cases the condition is discovered during the routine examination of the child ; but in some instances there have been salivation and itching. Vanlair found the affected areas were hyper aesthetic. Diagnosis.—Erythema migrans must be distinguished from mucous tubercles by the greater elevation of the latter, by their general grey appearance, and by the presence of other well-marked signs of syphilis elsewhere. Treatment has no marked effect. Attempts should be made to improve the general health of the child with tonics and cod-liver oil, while slightly astringent mouth-washes of alum and tannin may be ordered. In all cases the teeth should be carefully examined, and treated if necessary. 2. DYSPEPTIC TONGUE Among dyspeptic subjects, affections of the tongue are extremely common, as is natural, since to some extent the appearance of the €ongue may be taken as a reflection of the condition of the gastric and intestinal mucous membranes. A great variety of condi- tions have been described, but in the present section attention is drawn only to the more important varieties, ulcers being considered later.