771 PANCREATIC CYSTS Tlie. cystadenomas are still more rare. They may give rise to no symptoms during life, and only be discovered at necropsy, as in the case shown in Fig. 536, or one or more of the loculi may attain large size, giving rise to all the signs of pancreatic cysts. Sometimes these tumours contain papillomas, while in other cases their structure suggests cystic epithelioma or carcinoma. Congenital cystic disease also very rarely occurs, and is associated with the same condition in other organs. Interacinous cysts.—Hydatids bear this relation to the gland, but are rare in the pancreas. All the varieties of true cyst occur most commonly in the tail, though they may be found in any part of the gland. Pseudo-cysts.—If we dismiss the cystic conditions due to the softening and breaking down of malignant new growths, there are two principal conditions to be discussed under this head—(1) the retro- peritoneal collection of fluid in association with the breaking up of the pancreas from old hBemorrhage or inflammation ; (2) inflammatory efiusions into the lesser. peritoneal sac. Jordan Lloyd first drew attention to the cases which follow on injury. Laceration of the pancreas is combined with tearing of the overlying peritoneum, so that there is an escape of blood and pan- creatic juice into the lesser sac. This leads to an inflammation, which results in the closing of the foramen of Winslow, and further adds to the effusion distending the lesser sac. Sometimes even gall-stones, bile, and pancreatic fluid have been found in this situation. The content of pancreatic cysts is an alkaline albuminous fluid, having a specific gravity of 1010 to 1020. It is either clear or a reddish-brown, or definitely blood-stained, and usually, though not invariably, contains one or more of the pancreatic ferments. Secondary changes.—In some cases haemorrhage occurs into a cyst, either from injury or from erosion of vessels, and may later lead to the suggestion that such a cyst has arisen in an old haemorrhage. Secondary infection may take place, and may lead to acute symptoms. Malignant disease may also arise. Anatomical relations.—A pancreatic cyst sufficiently developed to be recognized may present in a variety of situations : (a) above the stomach, between it and the liver ; (b) beliind the stomach ; (c) below the stomach, between it and the transverse colon; (f7) below the transverse colon; (c) behind the stomach and colon; (/) between the layers of the mesocolon. The relations of a pancreatic cyst also depend on whether it springs from the head, the body, or the tail of the gland. An effusion into the lesser sac of the peritoneum (pseudo-cj'st) causes a general bulging of the ejiigastric and left hj^ochondriac regions with pro- minence of the lower part of the chest on that side : as it increases, the umbilical and left renal regions may be similarly invaded. The stomach is