429 MOVEMENTS OF THE COLON the large intestine, a powerful contraction of the colon carries it some distance from the ileo-ctecal valve ; then antiperistaltic waves begin to pass rhythmically from the most advanced portion of the food, and travel backwards to the caecum. These waves occur in " periods," during each of which they are small to begin with, gradually reach a maximum, and then die away. The period lasts for two to eight minutes in the cat, and periods recur at intervals of ten to thirty minutes, the bowel remaining at rest between them. In this way the food is thoroughly mixed and presented for absorption. As food accu- mulates, it reaches the neighbourhood of the splenic flexure, where the first " constriction ring " is usually seen. When the intra-intestinal pressure rises, as the food cannot force the ileo-ca?cal sphincter, some of it may escape onwards through the ring. Though this explanation is the one commonly accepted, it is possible that the passage of the most advanced contents into the descending colon is brought about by waves of contractions behind them. Otherwise, the evacuation of the half-empty colon is difficult to explain. That contractions do pass from the caecum along the whole length of the large intestine is proved by Hertz's observations on the act of defgecation in man. In complete obstruction of the colon at some distance from its commencement, the antiperistaltic waves continue to drive the food backwards, and none of it can move onwards. As the pressure rises, the csecum becomes dilated, and all the subjective symptoms may be referred to the right iliac fossa. In cancer of the pelvic colon, tliis sometimes leads to confusion in diagnosis. Constriction rings.—With the increasing accumulation of food in the ascending and transverse colon, constrictions appear and separate the contents into a series of spherical masses. These increase in number, and gradually assume a position farther from the csecum, so that they lie for the most part below the splenic flexure. In man, the first is about the middle of the transverse colon (Hertz). With the slow movement of the constriction rings, the contents are gradually pushed onwards along the descending and the pelvic colon. This movement corresponds with peristalsis in the small intestine, and each ring is associated with an area of dilatation in the gut below it. Oscillating contractions of the walls of the sacculi have been observed in the excised colon (Elliott and Barclay-Smith). In all probability they assist in the churning of the contents. In defcEcation a strong contraction occurs to empty the distal colon. According to Hertz, who has actually observed the process in man by means of the fluorescent screen, the contraction starts at the csecum, and proceeds along the whole length of the colon, driving the contents farther down. It is followed by similar waves, each of which empties the pelvic colon of part of its contents.