PHLEGMONOUS GASTRITIS 399 left costal margin, if there is difficulty in inflating tlae stomacli and the stomach will not hold more than a small quantity of fluid. Treatment.—When possible, gastrectomy, complete or partial, should be done, for it is impossible to be certain whether the condition is simple or malignant. Moynihan has recorded a case which appeared clinically to be one of plastic linitis, for which he successfully per- formed total gastrectomy ; micrcscopic examination later showed the growth to be malignant. Where this treatment is not feasible, gastro-jejunostomy should be performed if the condition of the stomach will permit. Sheldon has recorded a case well three and a half years, Deaver one well two and a half years after this operation. It may be necessary to perform jejunostomy. PHLEGMONOUS GASTRITIS (SUBMUCOUS GASTRITIS; SUPPURATIVE LINITIS) This is a rare condition of diffuse inflammation of the submucous layer of the stomach, occasionally going on to suppuration. Since the recognition of the disease by P. Borel, in 165(3, the number of recorded cases is under 100. The condition is more common in men than in women, and may occur at any age, but is most often seen between 20 and 40. In 25 per cent, of the cases there is a history of chronic alcoholism. Etiology and pathology.—Phlegmonous gastritis is an infec- tive cellulitic inflammation of the submucous tissue of the stomach, which may diffusely involve the whole stomach or be locahzed. The infecting micro-organism present is usually a streptococcus. In a case recorded by J. E. Adams a pure culture of pneumococcus was obtained. The organism may obtain entrance through an ulcer, simple or malignant, or a wound, accidental or operative. In some cases the origin of the infection cannot be discovered; in others it is associated with some acute infective disease, such as typhoid or puerperal fever ; whilst cases have been recorded following the ingestion of infected food. There are, therefore, two groups—primary, in which the infec- tion occurs through a lesion of the stomach wall; and secondary, complicating other diseases. J. E. Adams has recently suggested that the term primary should be applied only to those cases in which no naked-eye lesion of the gastric wall can be discovered ; secondary, to those in wliich the infection spreads from an ulcer, simple or malig- nant, or from an operation wound. But as it is probable that in all, except those complicating disease elsewhere, the micro-organism gains entrance through 'the wall of the stomach, the term primary should not be limited to those in which the seat of entrance is visible to the naked eye. The stomach-wall is increased in thickness, often to eight or nine times its normal size. The peritoneal coat in the early stage is