PERITONEAL INJURIES 563 into, the mesentery may, in the absence of other intra-abdominal injury, cause serious symptoms, and even lead to an abdominal explora- tion. Laceration of the mesentery or omentum alone is responsible for a certain number of cases of intraperitoneal haemorrhage. Clean wounds of the peritoneum heal with great readiness ; infected wounds also heal readily if the virulence and number of the bacteria introduced are not beyond the very considerable defensive powers of the peritoneum. It is, indeed, this property of rapid healing which per- mits of anastomotic operations being safely performed upon the stomach and intestines. The omentum plays an important part in abdominal injuries. It may become rolled around and isolate infec- tive material, and may even prevent leakage from a perforated organ by becoming adherent to and sealing the opening. It also possesses the special property of dealing with bacteria by phagocytosis upon its surface, of which mention has already been made. 2. INTRAPERITONEAL HAEMORRHAGE Traumatic intraperitoneal haemorrhage may take place from torn or incised mesenteric or omental vessels without any visceral injury. The results which follow such hajmorrhage vary with the quantity of blood effused, and may be summarized as follows: (a) Death from loss of blood alone ; (6) diffuse peritonitis; (c) formation of a localized hsematocele, which may suppurate later and so produce one of the varieties of localized intraperitoneal abscess ; {d) partial ab- sorption, with the formation of persistent adhesions; (e) complete absorption. Peritonitis, either diffuse or localized, results from the effusion of blood into the peritoneal cavity, quite apart from infection at the time of the injury. Any effusion of blood into the peritoneal cavity which is sufficient in amount to be capable of diagnosis ought to be operated upon. The abdomen must be opened, the bleeding-point secured, the blood and clot washed away with sterile normal saline solution, and the abdomen closed without drainage. 3. RETROPERITONEAL HEMORRHAGE In abdominal contusions, especially when associated with fracture of the pelvis, blood sometimes escapes into the retroperitoneal cellular tissues in such quantity as to cause severe symptoms of haemorrhage. The case is then usually looked upon as one of intraperitoneal haemor- rhage, nor are there any definite signs by which the two conditions may be distinguished with certainty, even when a more or less localized swelling can be felt. The diagnosis has therefore to be made by exploratory laparotomy. When a diffuse retroperitoneal hajmorrhage is found the wound should be closed without drainage, for the blood