334 THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM If sudden pain and collapse follow the passage of a stomach-tube or diagnostic instrument, thus raising the suspicion that this accident has occurred, immediate operation must be imdertaken. 2. Indirect Violence Cases have been recorded in which gastric haemorrhage has followed falls on the back or the buttocks, or after lifting heavy weights. It is just possible that lesions of the mucous membrane may account for these cases ; from their nature they do not lead to post-mortem examination. Bleeding after indirect injury comes, in most cases, from oesophageal varices due to cirrhosis of the Hver. All the cases of this nature that have come under my observation, in which there was no history of previous gastric trouble, appeared to be due to this cause, but I have known severe hsematemesis follow indirect violence due both to falls and to strains, in patients with chronic gastric ulcer. Injury may be the exciting cause leading to the perforation of a gastric or duodenal ulcer ; several cases have come under my care in which perforation occurred at the time the patient was straining to lift a heavy weight; in two cases in which a duodenal ulcer perforated, the patient had had no previous gastric symptoms. The onset of sudden pain and acute abdominal symptoms in circumstances such as these should lead to a suspicion of perforation and to immediate operation. RUPTURE OF THE DUODENUM While rupture of the stomach is extremely rare, rupture of the duodenum is still rarer. Thus, out of 270 cases of contused abdomen admitted into the London Hospital between the years 1899-1908 there were 19 cases of ruptured gut, and in these the duodenum was affected twice only. In one case already mentioned the stomach also was ruptured ; in the second case no operation was performed. Berry and Giuseppi found records of only 132 cases of traumatic intes- tinal rupture in ten London hospitals from 1893-1907 ; the duodenum was affected in 23 and the duodeno-jejunal flexure in 3. Meerwein, in publishing (1907) an account of a case under his care, collected all the published cases of traumatic rupture of duodenum, 64 in number. These include only 2 of those collected by Berry and Giuseppi. The transverse portion of the duodenum usually suffers, the rent being most often at right angles to the long axis of the gut. As in ruptures of the stomach, the lesion may be complete or incomplete ; the latter is rare, but Berry records an instance in a boy of 15 in whom " a clot of blood as large as a hen's egg lay between the peritoneal and the muscular coats and completely blocked the second part of the duodenum." The rupture may be retroperitoneal. This occurred in 4 out of the 23 cases collected by Berry and Giuseppi.