437 INSPECTION—PALPATION sometimes produces cystitis. Other organisms are the Bacillus lactis aerogenes and the Bacillus putriflcus. an anaerobe. The most important pathogenetic organisms are those of typhoid, dysentery, and cliolera, but streptococci and staphylococci, tlie baciHus of anthrax, and the Bacillus fijocyaneus may also be found. Tubercle bacilli can frequently be demonstrated, even when intestinal tuberculosis is not present and no bacilli are to be found in the sputum, but great care must be taken to distinguish them from the smegma bacillus which abounds at the anal orifice. METHODS OF EXAMINATION In the examination of the abdomen, the usual clinical methods are systematically employed. The patient should be flat on the back, with the shoulders slightly raised on a pillow, and the knees flexed so that the soles of the feet are flat on the bed. He should be instructed to breathe through the open mouth. By inspection the presence of localized or general distension may be recognized, especially in spare subjects with tliin abdominal walls. If the distension is extreme, the skin appears smooth, sliining, and stretched, and when it is due to ascites the umbilicus may project beyond the surface. The movements of the abdominal walls with natural respiration, and while the patient takes a series of full breaths, should be noted. This is better appreciated by bringing the eye to the level of the abdomen and looking across it than by looldng down upon it. Abdominal movements of peristalsis can sometimes be seen through the parietes ; and in cases of intestinal obstruction, various patterns formed by the dilated coils of gut may be recognized. The presence of dilated veins in the abdominal wall is suggestive of some obstruction to the portal circulation or of pressure on the vena cava. Palpation.—The student should acquire the habit of examining all the external hernial orifices as the first step in the palpation of the abdomen. This having been done, the abdomen must be examined systematically, the flat of the hand (not the finger-tips) being lightly placed on the skin, and the examination should be so arranged that any manipulation likely to cause pain is reserved to the last. After observing the respiratory movement in each segment of the abdominal wall, the muscular rigidity is tested, any localized area of " boarding " being specially noted. The condition of the wall ha\dng been thus determined, the hand is again passed over the abdomen to investigate the contents, each individual viscus and segment of the bowel being in turn felt for. At first only a moderate degree of pressure should be exercised ; later, if this is tolerated, deeper pressure can be made. In tliis way, local