479 PERITONEAL ADHESIONS / symptoms, these may take the form of repeated attacks of colicky pain with vomiting, a moderately acute obstruction, or a gradually increasing interference with the passage of the intestinal contents. Obstruction due to peritoneal adhesions.—The more acute form of obstruc'tion is usually due to kinJcing, betiding, or tivisting of a short segment of bowel, which is suddenly dragged upon by an adhesion attached to its border so that the lumen is occluded. The traction may be due to distension of the coil by gas, or to some change in position. As this mechanism does not involve any serious interference with the blood supply of the affected coil, the symp- toms are less acute than when the bowel is strangulated, for example, by a band. The cause of this form of obstruction is seldom diagnosed before the abdomen is opened, but the his- tory of previous peritonitis or trauma should suggest the possibility of peri- toneal adhesions. Limited adhesions may be separ- ated and steps taken to prevent their re-formation by smearing the raw sur- faces with sterilized vaseUne oil. The more gradual form of obstruc- tion is due to fixation of a loop of bowel; to localized constriction by ad- hesions wliich encircle a segment; to cicatricial contraction of the mesentery ; or to widespread adhesions matting a number of coils into a confused mass, as is frequently seen in cases of tu- berculous peritonitis, or of disease of the mesenteric glands. The chronic symptoms—vague abdominal discom- fort, colicky pains with occasional attacks of vomiting, gradually increasing difficulty in securing a regular action of the bowels, and progressive distension—often culminate in acute obstruction. This form of obstruction may usually be diagnosed from the history of previous disease in the glands or peritoneum, from the gradual progress of the symptoms, and in many cases from the detection of a localized swelling in the abdomen or on rectal examination. If the adhesions cannot be separated and resection of the affected segments is impracticable, an anastomosis should be established between Fig. 4uS. — Illustrating the formation of a fibrous band between two coils of small intestine. {Mttsenj't^ Royal College of Surgeons, Edinbujgk.)