342 THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM C. H. Miller has stated that lymphoid follicles are grouped chiefly at the lesser curvature and in the pyloric region, and tend to disappear between the ages of 45-50; that as the result of infection they may become swollen and eroded, leading in many cases to hsematemesis. In examining the non-ulcerated portions of the stomach in cases of gastric ulcer, he found a great increase in the amount of lymphoid tissue present, an enlargement of the individual follicles, and a thicken- ing of the submucous layer. He believed that these changes might be a factor in the non-healing of an acute ulcer which was due to a follicular erosion. Erosions and ulcers of the stomach and duodenum are found in many acute diseases—in erysipelas, septictemia, local septic infections, genito-urinary affections, burns, etc. During the years 1907, 1908, and 1909, 26 acute ulcers were found in the stomach and 4 in the duodenum in autopsies performed at the London Hospital on patients dying from causes other than gastric. In these 26 cases the cause of death was as follows : Suppurative appendicitis, 12 ; pylephlebitis, 2; gangrene of the foot, 2; chronic nephritis, 2 ; ulcerative endocard- itis, 2 ; intestinal obstruction, 2 ; carcinoma of gall - bladder, 2 ; puerperal septicaemia, lobar pneu- monia, and mitral stenosis, 1 each. {See Fig. 372.) Hort considers that gastric and duodenal ulcers are the local expression of a general blood disease. " Peptic " ulcers are only found in those parts of the intestinal canal in which the contents are acid. Bolton's experiments on the production of gastric ulcer showed that excess of hydrochloric acid delayed healing. In most cases of chronic gastric ulcer, as has been emphasized lately by Willcox, the total acidity is high ; this is pro- bably a factor in the initial development of the ulcer, but when the ulcer has become chronic this high acidity is not invariably found. These considerations lead me to the belief that acute gastric ulcers are due to the autodigestion of areas of gastric mucous membrane, the resistance of which has been lowered as the result of toxic products acting directly on the gastric cells or giving rise to a swelling and erosion of lymphoid follicles. Chronic appendicitis is probably Fig. 372. — Acute duodenal ulcer found post mortem in a child of 35 who died of gangrene of the leg following a crush.