PANCREATITIS 765 As the same agents may cause acute or chronic pancreatitis, some explanation for the incidence of the two classes must be sought. Flexner concludes that the sudden retrojection of fresh, unaltered bile causes acute changes, while the bile that is found in cases of chronic obstruction, containing a diminished amount of salts and an excess of colloid material, sets up chronic changes. Causal agents carried by the blood-stream, such as alcohol or tuberculous toxins, are more likely to give rise to chronic than to acute mischief. Varieties of pancreatitis.—Pancreatitis may consist (1) in inflammation of the ducts ; or (2) in inflammation of the parenchyma. " Fat necrosis" and haemorrhage are two features so strikingly characteristic of pancreatitis that they must be separately discussed. Fat necrosis was first properly described by Balser in 1882. The appearance is quite characteristic (Plate 101), and consists in small localized whitish or yellowish necrotic blotches scattered over the fat, varying in size from a pin's head to areas J in. or more in diameter. The process is most marked near the pancreas, but is often widely distributed over the omentum and mesentery and may some- times even be seen in the preperitoneal fat. This phenomenon results from splitting up of the fatty molecule into its fatty acid and glycerine by the escaped pancreatic juice. It is common in acute, but uncommon in chronic pancreatic lesions. Tlie haemorrhage may either show itself in the substance of the gland, as a bloody peritoneal effusion, or as a general tendency to bleeding. Haemorrhage into the gland may take the form of a massive bleeding—the so-called " pancreatic apoplexy," which has been recorded in vascular and blood diseases, sepsis, and poisoning, usually in fat people. Hsemorrhagic peritoneal effusion is seen in acute pancreatitis, and when associated with fat necrosis forms a striking picture. The general tendency to bleeding is seen in the chronic varieties, with or without jaundice. In these cases, remote spontaneous haemor- rhages may occur under the skin, but, of course, the tendency to bleeding is principally observed after operations. Morbid anatomy.—The slighter changes in the pancreas are not visible to the naked eye. This is especially true of the changes following catarrhal inflammation of the ducts and of those in chronic pancreatitis. In acute pancreatitis the pancreas may be embedded in blood, or may be but a little larger and, in the early stages, firmer than normal. There may also be areas of softening of the pancreatic substance with definite evidence of gross infection. Later, necrosis of considerable areas of the gland is obvious, and may involve either scattered patches or, more commonly, an extensive portion of the body, but the head and extreme end of the tail are often spared. In very acute cases the