531 CARCINOMA OF THE COLON Sites—The pelvic colon is the most common seat of carcinoma, and next in order of frequency come the csecum and the ascending colon, the transverse colon and splenic flexure, and lastly the hepatic flexure and descending colon. Carcinoma of the pelvic colon sometimes originates in the cicatrix of a stercoral ulcer. CI inical features. Before the onset of complete obstruction.— The extent to wliich the colon may be narrowed by a malignant stricture, without giving rise to any symptoms, is often remarkable, and in many cases attention is first directed to the condition by the onset of the symptoms of acute obstruction. When the tumour manifests itself in its early stages, the symptoms are usually those of irritation of the bowel, and are common to many other conditions than cancer. It may be noticed that the patient is losing strength, is depressed and listless, and complains of vague abdominal discomfort, rarely amounting to pain. Loss of weight is not a prominent feature in the early stages ; in fact, the patient may even be putting on weight. There is a gradually increasing difficulty in keeping the bowels regular, necessitating the frequent use of pur- gatives. The constipation gradually becomes more pronounced, and the medicines that previously procured a motion merely induce attacks of colicky pain and flatulent distension. Soon the patient begins to suffer from recurrent attacks of spurious diarrhoea, passing a small quantity of fteces, with a good deal of mucus and some flatus. This does not give him relief, and is usually followed by a further period of constipation. The sequence of alternating constipation and diarrhoea is very characteristic of cancer of the colon, and should always lead to a systematic examination of the abdomen. On examination, the stools are found to contain a small quantity of blood, sometimes only detectable by the microscope, or by the guaiac or the benzidine test. There is seldom a large haemorrhage from the bowel. No importance is to be attached to the shape of the motions, unless the cancer actually implicates the anal canal. Vomiting is seldom a constant or prominent symptom ; when it occurs, it is usually in relation with the taldng of food. It is not always possible to detect a locaUzed swelling in the abdomen, as, even when of considerable size, the growth may be obscured by the thickness of the abdominal wall, or by flatulent dis- tension. When situated in the splenic or hepatic flexure it lies under cover of the ribs. When palpable, the tumour, although solid to the feel, is usually resonant on percussion, and it is not always tender. Frequently the swelling that is felt is due to an accumula- tion of fseces above a stricture, in which case it is comparatively soft and pits on pleasure. In other instances it is due to the