DUODENAL FISTULA No mistakes sliould occur if the existence of tliese cases is remem- bered, for they occur in well-nourislied, hysterical women, whereas the patients with gastro-colic fistula are obviously ill. Prognosis.—This is bad. Spontaneous closure is said to have occurred in two cases. Treatment will depend upon the causation. If this is malignant growth, wide dissection followed by end-to-end suture of colon and partial gastrectomy (p. 404) should be performed if possible. If the growth is too far advanced to admit of this, short-circuiting operations should be done. Other Tcinds of Internal Fistulce Fistulous communications between the gall-bladder and biliary passages and stomach or duodenum, although relatively rare, are, after the gastro-colic, the most common form of fistula. Cases have been recorded in which patients vomited gall-stones ; more often the fistulous communication is with the duodenum, and no symptoms result unless a stone passes into the intestines large enough to cause intestinal obstruction. The symptoms of a stomach-gall-bladder fistula are usually bilious vomiting and, in some cases, dilatation of the stomach due to sur- rounding adhesions. Treatment.—The gall-bladder should be separated from the stomach, and the opening into the latter closed. The gall-bladder should be drained or removed, according to its condition, and gastro- jejunostomy done if necessary. Duodenal Fistula These are rare. They may follow operation upon gall-bladder, duodenum, or kidney, particularly the first-named, the duodenum being torn, or injured by the pressure of a drainage-tube. When the duodenum has been mobilized for the purpose of removing a stone from the retroduodenal portion of the common duct, a fistula may residt. Fistula is not an uncommon secpel to the perforation of a duodenal ulcer ; it may follow suture, the opening of a subdiaphrag- matic abscess or of one due to retroperitoneal perforation ; the external opening is usually in the right hypochondrium, but in the case last mentioned may be in the loin or even in the inguinal region. Internal fistulas have been described, the duodenum communicating with stomach or colon. These are pathological curiosities. The only common form is that between duodenum and gall-bladder secondary to disease of the latter. Prognosis.—In the cases following operation the fistula usually heals spontaneously. Recovery is recorded in one case only (Lawford Knaggs) followmg perforation of an ulcer.