CLEFT PALATE: LANE'S OPERATION 155 steadily greater. Still, this is a matter of no moment as compared with the importance of the early closure of the cleft, since the milk teeth are often unsatisfactory in cases of cleft palate, apart from operative interference, while the permanent teeth escape damage from it if undertaken sufficiently early in life." The application of tliese metliods will now be described briefly ; for further details the reader must consult the original paper. Fig. 322 represents the roof of an infant's mouth witli a broad cleft of nearly the irhole palate, in wliich the nasal septum occupies a median position. The incision a b commences at the anterior limit of the cleft, and runs forwards and outwards across the alveolus to its outer surface. From its termination, the incision b c d is made to pass along the outer side of the alveolus, and then through the mucous membrane of the soft palate, to terminate at the anterior pillar of the fauces. From this point, d, a third incision is made along the posterior free border of tlie soft palate as far as the tip of the uvula, e. The flap a b c d e thus outlined is dissected up, and when reflected will hinge upon the margin of the cleft, a e. The anterior half, a b c, of this flap consists of muco-periosteum. When cutting it, care must be taken not to allow the portion reflected from the alveolus to be too thick. The posterior half, c D e, should consist of mucous membrane and submucous tissue only, and should leave the muscles of the soft palate exposed, but uninjured. The reader will now readily perceive the advantage that accrues from performing this operation before the teeth erupt, for the incision b c can then be made on the outer side of the alveolus, and thereby the width of the flap increased by a quarter to half an inch. On the opposite side of the cleft, an incision, a z, is carried forwards and outwards to terminate on the alveolus, as in the diagram, or beyond it if necessary. A second incision, a f, is then made along the margin of the cleft, and the muco-periosteum between z, a, and f is raised from the bone. During this procedure due care must be taken to avoid injuring the anterior palatine artery. The point of the uvula, h, is now seized with toothed forceps and pulled towards, the operator, so as to expose the upper or nasal surface of the soft palate. Along this nasal surface of the soft palate an incision is carried (through the mucous membrane and submucous tissue only) from F, the point at which the incision along the margin of the cleft ter- minated, to G, just below the posterior pillar of the fauces. The free edge of the soft palate is then incised from G to H, as on the opposite side. The flap f g H, thus marked out, is dissected up with a short- bladed scalpel, and reflected inwards so as to hinge upon its attached margin, r h, at the border of the cleft. The last step consists in freeing the nasal surface of the soft palate from the posterior margin of the hard