RARE DISEASES OF THE APPENDIX 557 the seat of tHe primary disease. The streptothrix has been demon- strated in the appendix, and more than once in company with a grain of corn. The pathology of the disease difiers in no essential respect from that of actinomycosis elsewhere. (For Ileo-Cascal Actinomycosis see Vol. I., p. 876.) INTUSSUSCEPTION, HERNIAS, INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION The appendix is almost necessarily involved in intussusceptions of the caecal, ileo-csecal, and ileo-colic varieties, and is prone to have its vascularity gravely interfered with thereby. On reducing such an intussusception, it is sometimes advisable to amputate the appendix, even though the little extra time required may add to the patient's danger. Primary intussusception or inversion of the appendix itself is rare, but Battle and Corner have succeeded in coUectiug 17 cases from the literature. It is suggested that in the attempt to extrude a con- cretion the mucous membrane becomes prolapsed into the caecum, and that this is followed by inversion of the caecum and then of the ascend- ing colon, so that a complicated form of intussusception is produced. Involvement in hernias has been already alluded to (p. 540). According to Kelly, the appendix is present in from 1 to 2 per cent, of all hernias. A large proportion of the cases occurs in infants, when the appendix can sometimes be felt in the hernia as a rounded cord. It is commonly adherent, at any rate in the cases which are operated upon, and in congenital inguinal hernia has been found adherent to the testis. In hernial sacs the appendix has been found strangulated, inflamed, and perforated ; and in this connexion an interesting point has been noted by Battle and Corner, namely, that when strangulated in a hernia the appendix is more often found alone than in company with other viscera. Intestinal obstruction is sometimes produced by the incar- ceration of a coil of intestine beneath a band formed by the adherent appendLx. BIBLIOGRAPHY Battle and Corner, Siirgeri/ of the Diseases of the Appendix. London, 1904. Gushing, Harvey, Jahns ilopl-ins Hosp. Repts., 1004, vol. viii. Dudgeon and Sargent, Bacteriology of Peritonitis. London, 1905. Fenwick and Dodwell, Lancet, 1894. Hawkins, H. P., JJi.^cascs of the Vermiform Appendi.r. London, 1895. Macewen, Sir W., Lancet, Oct. 8, 1904. Poirier and Cuneo, The Lymphatics. London, 1903. Robinson, Byrom, nuotcd by Battle and Corner. RoUeston and Lawrence Jones, Med.-Chir. Trans., London, Ixxxix, 125. Sargent, Percy, Lancet, Sept., 1905. Still, G. F., lint. Med. Journ., April 15, 1899. Tavel and Lanz, Rev. de Chir., Paris, 1904. Veillon and Zuber, Arch, de Med. Exper., July, 1898. Wallace and Sargent, St. Thomas''s Hosp. Repts., 1904.