GALL-STONE OBSTRUCTION 499 OBSTRUCTION DUE TO IMPACTION OF A GALL-STONE The term " gall-stone ileus," or " gall-stone obstruction," is applied to a rare condition in which a large gall-stone lias found its way into the intestinal canal and become impacted there. The gall-stone, which has formed in the gall-bladder and has reached such dimensions that it cannot pass along the bile-ducts, sets up irritation which leads to localized peritonitis around the gall-bladder and duodenum. The adjacent parts of these viscera become adherent, and the pressure of the gall-stone leads to the formation of a fistulous opening into the first or second part of the duodenum. It is in tliis way that the majority of large gall-stones enter the bowel, but cases have been recorded in which the stone had so dilated the cystic and common bile-ducts that these formed a continuous cavity from which it passed directly into the gut. In rare cases, the stone ulcerates its way directly into the large intestine and is passed with the faeces without giving rise to obstructive symptoms. If the stone is less than 1 in. in diameter, it usually passes safely along the intestinal canal, but if of larger dimensions it is liable to be arrested, and the larger the stone the higher up is impaction likely to take place. In the great majority of cases, impaction occurs in the lower part of the ileum. The occlusion of the bowel is due in part to the size of the stone, and in part to spasm of the circular muscular fibres induced by the irritation caused by the presence of a rough foreign body. If the lumen of the bowel is narrowed by cicatricial contraction or malignant disease, a comparatively small gall-stone may determine symptoms of acute obstruction if impacted in the orifice. Clinical features.—The condition is most frequently met with in fat women between 55 and 65 years of age. There is usually the history that the patient has suffered for years from more or less constant, dull epigastric pain, with occasional exacerbations which have been attributed to dyspepsia. Only in a small proportion of cases is there a history of typical attaclcs of biliary colic associated with jaundice, doubtless because the stones that eventually cause obstruction are single, and do not engage in the common bile-duct or cause obstruction of its lumen. More recently the pain has been more severe and difiuse, as a result of the localized peritonitis and ulceration, associated with the formation of the fistulous tract by which the stone escapes into the bowel. At first, the stone projects into the duodenum and causes irritation, which gives rise to localized pain in the right hypochondrium and persistent vomiting. As the stone is passing along the small intestine, the pain is referred to the umbilicus.