753 GALL-STONE DISEASE block is in the common duct it may afterwards vary from day to day, until it either disappears or gradually assumes an olive-green tint. Even with recent and slight jaundice, severe bleeding may follow any wound, and in long-standing cases spontaneous haemorrhages may occur. Itching is another very distressing symptom. Slight fever occurs apart from any marked infection, and insta- bility of temperature is almost characteristic of gall-stones. A high temperature or repeated rigors suggest severe infection. Stones in the common duct and bile infection, ague-like paroxysms with rigors, and temperature running up to 104° or 105° and as suddenly coming down, make up the clinical picture of Charcot's " intermittent hepatic fever." General symptoms such as dej^ression and anorexia, with sour breath and coated tongue, are invariably accompaniments. There may be considerable abdominal distension and marked constipation. Sometimes gall-stones are found in the faeces. Local physical signs.—Rigidity of the upper segment of the right rectus and deep tenderness have already been mentioned. The presence of a local tumour, when discoverable, is imj)ortant. Generally, this tumour is the distended gall-bladder (Fig. 519), perhaps augmented by surrounding inflammatory complications ; but some- times an inflammatory mass around the common duct, or, rarely, even a mass of stones, may be felt. A palpable gall-bladder ap^^ears as a smooth, rounded, jiear-shai^ed tumour which moves up and down with respiration, cannot be held down, is continuous with the liver above, and can be slightly rocked from side to side. When such a gall-bladder enlarges, it usually does so in a direction downwards and inwards towards the umbilicus, but cjuite commonly it enlarges directly downwards and may even reach the right iliac fossa. Just after an attack the gall-bladder is usually tender, and this may persist, but chronic enlargements are neither painful nor tender. The cases as seen by the surgeon may be arranged in the following groups :— 1. Acute cases without jaundice.—There is sudden onset with severe pain, general disturbance, and elevation of temperature. At first the right hypochondrium is rigid and tender, but at a later stage tlie enlarged gall-bladder may be easily felt. The neck of the gall- bladder or the cystic duct will be found blocked by a calculus. 2. Acute cases with jaundice.—The jaundice follows an attack of colic, and there is much general disturbance, often with rigors. The right hypochondrium is tender and rigid, but at no stage can the gall-bladder be felt. A calculus is impacted in the common duct. 3. Quiescent (interval) cases without jaundice.—The patient 2 k-