THE BLADDER 845 is made by the position of the shadow, the shape, number, and clinical history. In doubtful cases stereoscopic radiograms should be taken after passing an opaque bougie up the ureter. 1. Diuretic treatment.—If small stones have recently passed into the ureter with rccuiring attacks of renal colic, and especially if a calculus has previously been passed, diuretics such as potassium citrate and acetate, tlieocin sodium acetate, Contrexeville, Evian, or Vittel water should be administered, together with antispasmodics such as atropine or belladonna. The treatment should be limited to four or six months. When dilatation of the kidney is commencing (as shown by the collargol pyelographic method), o])eration sliould be undertaken without delay. 2. Instrumental treatment.—The passage of a bougie up the ureter, or of a special ureteric catheter with a distensible balloon, and the injection of oil and eucaine into the ureter, 1 ave been used in special cases. 3. Operative treatment.—This is indicated—(1) in calculous anuria, (2) where mcdirinal treatment has failed, (3) where infection has occurred, (4) where dilatation of the kidney is commencing. A calculus situated in the lumbar segment of the ureter is exposed by an oblique lumbar incision ; one impacted at the pelvic brim is reached by a curved incision commencing at the level of the anterior superior iliac spine, and passing downwards and inwards parallel to Poupart's ligament and about 2 in. above it. The peritoneum is raised and the ureter is found adhering to it. A calculus arrested in the pelvic portion of the ureter may be removed by the same route, or by the sacral extraperitoneal route of Morris. The latter operation is carried out by an incision parallel to the sacral spines, 2 in. from the middle line, and carried down beyond the coccyx. The gluteus maximus muscle and the sacro-sciatic ligament are divided. In a third method the abdomen is opened in the middle line and the -peri- toneum incised over the ureter. The vaginal route is used when the stone can be felt from the vagina. A calculus in the intramural portion of the ureter is removed from within the bladder after suprapubic cysto- tomy. In all cases stricture of the ureter should be sought and treated. Results.—Excluding cases of calculous anuria, extraperitoneal ureterolithotomy has an operative mortality of .5'5 per cent. Recur- rence is rare. THE BLADDER Anatomy.—The bladder normally holds 8 to 10 oz. In moderate distension about in. of the anterior wall of the viscus above the symphysis f)ubis is uncovered by peritoneum. In front of the bladder, behind the pubic symphysis, is the space of Retzius, tilled with areolar tissue. The