33 MAMMARY CYSTS either completely removed, or packed and allowed to heal from the bottom. Simple Subareolar Cyst Simple subareolar cyst is due to the obstruction of one of the large ducts near the nipple. These cysts are usually single, contain clear serous fluid, and seldom exceed 1 to 1| in. in diameter. They are frequently associated with a vague induration of the corresponding lobe of the breast. Fluctuation is usually evident. Pain, tenderness, and enlargement of the axillary glands are generally absent. A dis- charge from the nipple is occasionally present, but if marked, and especially if blood-stained, it should arouse suspicion that the cyst is associated with duct papilloma. cysts exactly resembling the subareolar cyst may arise from the distension of ducts in the deeper parts of the breast ; they are usually associated with chronic mastitis. Treatment.—Any suspicion of malignancy must lead to an immediate exploratory operation (see p. 86). If the cyst is certainly innocent, milder measures may be tried. The cyst may be aspirated and the breast subsequently strapped. A more effective method is to tap the cyst with a hypodermic needle, and to inject 5 to 10 minims of 1 per cent, solution of protargol, or the same quantity of pure phenol. The breast is subsequently manipulated to ensure that the fluid comes in contact with the whole interior of the cyst. If these measures fail, the cyst must be excised through an incision radiating from the nipple so as not to divide any of the ducts. In certain cases, Gaillard Thomas's operation (see p. 40) may be employed. Hydatid Disease op the Breast Tliis condition is of great rarity. A small, painless, hard lump forms in the breast, and is discovered by accident. When it reaches the size of an egg, fluctuation can usually be detected in it. Further slow increase in size during a period of years produces a prominent globular tumour as large as an orange, moving with the breast, still painless, and not adherent either to skin or fascia. The nipple is not retracted, nor are the axillary glands enlarged. If nothing is done, suppuration may ultimately occur, probably as a result of the death of the hydatid. Pain is felt in the swelhng, the sldn becomes reddened, and the tumour itself is larger and more prominent. The integument becomes thinned at one or several points, and sinuses form through which thin pus is discharged, containing daughter-cysts and hydatid membrane. In this way the whole of the hydatid may be discharged, and a spontaneous cure may result. Diagnosis.—The presence of a globular, painless, fluctuating d