FUNCTIONAL DISEASES 1084 occur during pregnancy, or for a few days after the menstrual flow, excessive and persistent leucorrhoeal discharge is always due to cer- vicitis {see p. 1010). METRORRHAGIA Bleeding from the uterus unconnected with the menses is always due to organic disease. Carcinoma of the uterus, corporeal or cervical polyps, endometritis, and retained conception products are the com- monest causes. The treatment will be found set out under these con- ditions. MENORRHAGIA Excessive loss at the periods is seen with myoma, adeno-myoma, fibrotic metritis, endometritis, and mucous or fibroid polyps. Functional menorrhagia is sometimes seen at puberty, on the resumption of the menses after lactation, at the climacteric, and in certain circumstances unexplainable in our present state of knowledge. With regard to menopausal menorrhagia, it is most important to remember that the excessive losses are balanced or more than balanced by periods of amenorrhoea. Constantly recurring menstrual losses are not normal to this epoch, while continuous bleeding, contrary to the public impression, is altogether abnormal, and should be immediately investigated. Treatment.—Functional menorrhagia is to be treated by drugs, of which the most useful are ergot, hydrastis, hamamelis, cotarnin, and ■calcium lactate or cUoride. Where an organic cause exists operative treatment is usually advisable. AMENORRHCEA Amenorrhoea may be due to congenital absence or operative removal of the uterus or ovaries. Occasionally, persons structurally normal and in good health never menstruate, probably as a result of deficient ovarian activity. Congenital or postoperative occlusion of some part of the genital canal produces a spurious amenorrhoea. Amenorrhoea is particularly associated with chlorosis, while certain prolonged wasting diseases, such as tuberculosis, tend to it. Acute endometritis or oophoritis may suppress a period, while the physiological epochs of pregnancy, lactation, and the climacteric are normally accompanied by absence of the menses. Treatment.—The menstrual flow is not a necessity to health; its absence, therefore, requires treatment on the score of its cause alone. In chlorosis, purgatives and iron give good results. In general debility the usual tonics and hygienic regime are indicated. For functional amenorrhoea, aloes and iron are useful.