INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS 933 ORCHITIS Orcliitis may occur as a secondary affection to epididymitis, or the inflammation may primarily affect the body of the testis, the epididymis being only slightly involved. Orchitis is much rarer than epididymo-orchitis, and is due to injury, gout, or infection by one of the organisms of the specific diseases, particularly epidemic parotitis (mumps), typhoid fever, smallpox, scarlet fever, and possibly rheumatism and influenza. Traumatic orchitis has been considered under Injuries of the Testis (p. 932). Gouty Orchitis Inflammation of the body of the testis due to gout is very rare, but the possibility of its occurrence may be considered settled. An acute or subacute orchitis develops without any apparent cause, usually in a patient who is middle-aged and gives a history of attacks of articular gout. The course of the disease is tedious, as relapses are apt to occur. The epididymis is only slightly affected ; but a condition of epididymo-orchitis secondary to gouty urethritis has also been described. Treatment.—The treatment consists in supporting the testes and in the local application of warmth, combuied with the medicinal treatment of the gouty diathesis. Orchitis of Epidemic Parotitis This variety of orchitis usually develops between the sixth and the eighth day of the parotitis, and is much more common in some epidemics than in others. It occurs in boys and yoimg adults, being almost unknown in childhood or old age. It may occur in an epidemic without the development of parotitis, or it may precede the parotitis ; in some cases it has developed after inflammation of the submaxillary gland, without any involvement of the parotid. The condition is mainly an orchitis, but cases of epididymitis have been described. Symptoms.—The body of the testis becomes tender, hard, and painful. The skin of the scrotum is red, and there may be a secondary hydrocele. The condition, though usually unilateral, may be bilateral. The orchitis usually rapidly clears up, four days being the average duration of the disease, but in some cases atrophy follows. This is particularly apt to occur in older patients, and is more common in some epidemics than in others. Should it occur in both testes, impotence or even infantilism may result. Treatment consists in rest in bed, warmth, and supjiort of the testes. The patient should remain in bed till all the swelling has disappeared.