THE KIDNEY 8o8 Pyrexia with extreme distress and rigors without other symptoms in a child under two years where malaria can be excluded are usually due to pyelitis (J. Thomson). The condition has been mistaken for malaria, typhoid, and general tuberculosis. Prognosis.—Rapid improvement under treatment and recovery is the rule, but a fatal termination occasionally occurs. Treatment.^—Citrate of potash is given in doses of 24 gr., or in severe cases 36-48 gr., per day, in infusion of digitalis, and continued till the danger of relapse is past. Urotropin and salol may be added. Operative measures are rarely necessary. Nephrotomy may be performed if the child is steadily losing ground. Pyelitis (Pyelonephritis) of Pregnancy Pyelonephritis not infrequently develops during pregnancy, when it has special characteristics. Pathology—The bacteriology is similar to that of other renal infections. The right kidney is nearly always attacked (93 per cent.), and the disease most frequently appears about the fourth month of pregnancy. It has been ascribed to compression of the ureter by the gravid uterus, but at this early stage the uterus is hardly likely to cause pressure. The infection may have followed the passage of a catheter (ascending), or may be hsematogenous. Symptoms.—There is a rigor and the temperature rises, with severe paroxysmal unilateral renal pain and frequent painful mic- turition. The urine contains pus and bacteria, but may be almost clear even in severe cases. The general condition usually remains good, although the temperature is high and swinging. In a few cases the disease is bilateral, and there are rapid emaciation, drowsiness, burning thirst, dry tongue, and other signs of uraemia. The abdomen is rigid on one side, and the kidney tender and enlarged. Diagnosis.'—This depends on the position of the pain and tenderness, and on the examination of the urine. A mistaken diagnosis of appendicitis may easily be made. Prognosis.—Premature labour occurs in 25 per cent, of cases, and the child dies in one-third of these (Legueu). When the attack occurs early in pregnancy the puerperium is usually apyretic, but if the onset is late there is usually fever during the puerperium. If the pyelitis is late and the pregnancy goes on to full term the child is healthy and well nourished. Bacilluria and slight pyelonephritis frequently persist, and there are exacerbations during succeeding pregnancies. Treatment.—Prophylaxis consists in careful asepsis in catheter- ization, and in the treatment of constipation during pregnancy.