MISPLACEMENT OF THE APPENDIX 539 tions, if any, are of little moment. Experience has amply proved that its removal is followed by no demonstrable alteration in the economy. It has been variously credited with the provision of some secretion which prevents faecal hardening in the caecum ; with being concerned in the digestion of vegetable material; with providing a fluid which stimulates peristaltic activity in the caecum; and, on account of the large quantity of lymphoid tissue which it contains, with having to do with the disposal of bacteria. W. Macewen believes that the appendix possesses definite and important functions. He regards it as a sort of culture-tube from which, in response to the stimulus provided by the passage of the intestinal contents over its orifice, bacteria in a proper state of activity are from time to time discharged into the caecum, where they assist in the disintegration of undigested food- stuft's. Misplacement of the appendix.—The various positions occupied by an appendix lying in the right iliac region can scarcely be termed abnormalities, as there is no " normal" position with which to compare them. The organ is, however, sometimes found in situa- tions so remote from its usual position as to constitute misplacements, and such variations are due either to (a) arrest in the development and descent of the caecum, or (b) the presence of abnormally long and voluminous mesenteries. (a) Misplacement due to arrest of development.—During the development of the colon the caecum passes from the left hypochon- drium across the upper part of the abdomen to the under surface of the liver, and then downwards until it reaches its final adult position in the right iliac fossa. Arrest of development may cause the appendix to occupy any position upon this line of descent; consequently it has been found near the spleen, in the epigastrium, beneath the liver, and at various points in the right loin between the liver and the right iliac fossa. (6) Mesenteric abnormalities.—A long mesocolon, such as that which predisposes to the production of a volvulus of the caecum, is not infrequently responsible for abnormal positions of the appendix, especi- ally when combined with elongation of the meso-appendix. Thus the appendix may be entirely in the pelvis, where it may be adherent to the uterus, broad ligament, or bladder ; it may lie entirely upon the left side of the body, and be found in the left loin or left iliac fossa ; or it may occupy any position amongst the intestinal coils. A long meso-appendix, apart from any abnormality of the mesocolon, may allow of abnormal positions being assumed by the appendix through its tip becoming adherent to other viscera and being pulled upon by them. Thus the tip of a long appendix with a long mesentery, having become adherent to the pelvic colon, may be drawn upon so that it