CERVICAL CYSTS AND POLYPI 1017 In young women an alternative to hysterectomy is " utriculoplasty," as practised by Kelly and myself. The operation consists in excising a wedge-shaped portion of the whole thickness of the uterine wall, the base at the fundus and the apex at the internal os, followed by suture of the two moieties to one another, so as to form a miniature uterus or " utriculus." There is a risk, however, of the hajmorrhage returning, which should be explained to the patient before the operation. My first case has had two pregnancies subsequently to the operation. NEW GROWTHS OF THE UTERUS CYSTS OF THE CERVIX Cervical cysts are always inflammatory in origin, and only occa- sionally attain the size of a walnut. The treatment is that appropriate to chronic cervicitis. When large, the cyst should be excised, or the vaginal cervix amputated. POLYPUS OF THE CERVIX Pathology.—Four varieties of cervical polypus are found : L The adenomatous polypus is a pedunculated, very vascular, in- flammatory excrescence of the cervical mucous membrane. It is ■covered with a short columnar epithelium, and presents a number of racemose glands surrounded by a cellular stroma. It is bright red in colour and is never larger than an almond. 2. The cystic polypus is similarly derived and constructed, but the glands have undergone cystic dilatation. (Fig. 587.) These polypi, therefore, are much larger, often lobulated, and are pale and semi- translucent in appearance. They are uncommon. Both this and the last variety are collectively known as " mucous polyps." 3. The myomatous polypus is a sessile submucous cervical myoma which gradually becomes pedunculated. It is hard, smooth, and pink, And may attain a large size. 4. Sarcomatous polypi are, fortunately, rare, and such as have been .studied have been of the small round-celled or mixed-celled variety. They are soft, irregular in outline, reddish-white in colour, and bleed profusely. Symptoms.—A glandular cervical polypus gives rise to irregular losses of blood, especially after manipulation or coitus, from the numerous capillaries contained in the tumour. The symptoms of •cervicitis are invariably coexistent. A myomatous polypus of the cervix may occasion no symptoms, and is sometimes discovered accidentally, for since the corpus is unin- volved, menorrhagia is not associated with it, as with myomas higher