RUPTURE OF THE DUODENUM 33S As in other parts of the alimentary canal, partial rupture may be recovered from and lead to obstructive symptoms later. Meerwein records 2 cases in which spontaneous recovery occurred, but biliary obstruction in one, and dilated stomach in the other, necessitated operation. Diagnosis.—It will be impossible to make a definite diagnosis of the portion of the gut injured before operation. Rupture of the duodenum should be suspected in all cases of injury to the upper abdomen. Retroperitoneal injury should be suspected when symp- toms of sepsis follow an injury to the upper abdomen. Treatment.—The general rules which govern operation after abdominal contusions are to be followed. Rupture of the duodenum should always be borne in mind, and its whole extent carefully examined. It was overlooked at operation in 7 of Berry and Giuseppi's cases, and in 7 of the 29 cases recorded by Meerwein in which operation was performed. If the rent involves, as is usual, the anterior wall of the duodenum only, it should be closed in two layers, the inner with fine chromic gut through all the cotits, buried by fine silk Lembert stitches. If the rent is complete, gastro-jejimostomy will be the best course to pursue after closure of both ends of the gut. End-to-end suture of the second or tliird parts of the duodenum is unlikely to be successful on account of the absence of peritoneum from its posterior surface. Prognosis.—Tliis is extremely grave. Complete rupture, unless treated by operation, is inevitably fatal. Death followed in all the cases recorded by Berry and Giuseppi, and in all but 2 of the 29 recorded by Meerwein in wliich operation was performed. In only 1 case in this country (Godwin's), operated on in 1905, has recovery followed, although a patient whom Moynihan treated by closure of both ends and gastro-jejunostomy lived 104 days after operation, and died as the result of the lodgment of the Murphy's button used. WOUNDS OF THE STOMACH The stomach may be injured in penetrating abdominal wounds, the result of stabs with sharp implements or of gunshots. ^ Stab Wounds Wounds of the stomach are rare in civil life. Thus, in 125 patients with penetrating wounds of the abdomen treated at the London Hospital between 1899 and 1908, in no instance was the stomach injured. Among 75 cases of wounds of the stomach collected by Siegel, 4 were the result of stabs. Even when the stomach is wounded, the case is often comphcated by simidtaneous injury to other organs. The stomach may be injured alone in stabs in the epigastric region,