MIKULICZ'S DISEASE 245 Syphilis attacking the salivary glands is also rare, the whole of medical literature affording only some twenty-five cases. It is a late manifestation, gumma formation or interstitial fibrosis being the usual manifestation. Neumann has, however, reported five cases occurring in the first year of the disease. It used to be said that the diagnosis was only possible in the presence of other manifestations of syphilis, but it can now be made absolute with the aid of the Wassermann reaction. No special treatment, other than general antisyphilitic remedies, is required. Mikulicz's disease is a rare condition, which has been ■described as a clinical entity by von MilcuHcz of Breslau. It consists of a symmetrical enlargement of the salivary and lachrymal glands. Other glands, according to subsequent observers, may also be involved, e.g. the labial and buccal glands, and the gland of Blandin and Nuhn. The enlargement begins in early adult life, without apparent cause, and is steadily progressive ; the parotid may enlarge to the size of a man's fist. The swellings are firm or elastic to the touch, but do not fluctuate, nor are they tender. Disfigurement and inconvenience due to the local enlargement are common, but life is not endangered. Arsenic and potassium iodide have produced improvement in some cases, in others the disfigurement has been suflacient to call for ex- tirpation of tlie affected glands. There is no tendency to recurrence. The pathology of the condition is extremely obscure. Micro- scopically the glands show an infiltration of round cells. Mikulicz himself regards it as being " a new formation of lymphadenoid tissue which is spread round the acini as centres, and leads to the destruction of the specific gland tissue." Tietze's view is that it is an " adenoid proliferation of the lachrymal and salivary glands." Other authorities lean to the view that it is a chronic infective process. In no case has any relation to s}i)hilis or tubercle been demonstrated. CYSTS OF THE SALIVARY DUCTS AND GLANDS Cysts op the Ducts Retention cysts are known to occur in connexion with both ■salivary ducts and glands. Cysts in Stenson's or Wharton's duct may result from definite obstruction due to a calculus or to cicatricial fibrosis of the orifice ; but they are occasionally found when there is no appreciable obstruction to the outflow of secretion, as evidenced by a discharge of salivary fluid from the duct when an irritant fluid such as vinegar is placed in the mouth. In such a case, it must be ■supposed that the cyst is a collection of fluid in a congenital dilatation of the duct, just as a saphenous varix is a congenital dilatation of the vein rather than an enlargement due to obstruction. The cyst may