FEMORAL HERNIA: DIAGNOSIS 599 ment, whicli is accompanied by signs of softening. At the same time tliey may coexist with a hernia, and in stout patients are often impossible to differentiate from that condition. 3. Saphena varix is easily distinguished by its cystic character, and by the fact that it can be readily emptied by pressure, and by compression of the vein below, the swelling refilling at once on the release of pressure even when the patient is in the supine position (when fluctuation can often be felt between vein and swelling). It is, further, almost always part of a general varicosity of the saphena vein. 4. Aneurysm of the femoral artery exhibits the characteristic expansile pulsation which can be arrested by pressure on the external iliac artery, when the swelling will be, in part at least, reduced without gurgling. It is, like saphena varix, cystic in character, and the swelling reappears on the release of pressure. The stethoscope will reveal the usual bruit of an aneurysm. It is important to recognize the expansile character of the impulse here, since tumours overlying the vessel (e.g. an omental hernia, or a mass of glands) may receive transmitted pulsation from it. 5. A psoas abscess, wlien presenting beneath Poupart's hgament, produces a swelling which, although appearing externally to the vessels, occupies much the same position and gives the same impulse on coughing as a femoral hernia. It lacks, however, the " neck," is cystic in character, is commonly associated with some tenderness or kyphosis of the lumbar spine, may be accompanied by wasting, and fluctuation can often be made out between the femoral swelling and that in the iliac fossa. The most important points to remember with regard to femoral hernia are—(1) Its liability to early strangulation. (2) The danger of early ulceration of bowel when strangulated. (3) The close rela- tionship to the bladder on the inner (a diverticulum from the latter often projecting into the sac), and to the femoral vein on the outer side. (4) The possible presence of the aberrant branch of the obturator artery, which may pass along the inner aspect of the neck of the sac, and be in danger of division, during the operation of kelotomy {see Strangulated Hernia, p. 649). The contents of a femoral are, for all practical purposes, the same as those of an inguinal hernia, except that large intestine is less fre- quently, and the urinary bladder more frequontl)', met with.^ Umbilical hernia.—Except when congenital in origin, tliis ^ Bninner"s and JIaydl's statistics would seem to show a greater frequency of the bkidder in inguinal hernias ; the bLxdder is more often seen as a simple bulging in inguinal hernia, but as a true diverticulum projecting into the sac it is commoner in femoral hernia.