VESICULiE SEMINALES 922 prostatic urethra, and spasm of the muscular fibres of the prostate causing difficulty in micturition. All three are usually found com- bined in the same patient. Prostatic neuroses usually occur in young adults who have either had an inflammatory condition of the urethra and prostate, and often much treatment for it, or who are neurasthenic and have indulged in masturbation or sexual excesses. In the first variety of neurosis the patient complains of a feeling of fullness or weight in the perineum, often occurring in attacks. On examination of the urine no prostatic threads or abnormal contents are found, but rectal examination shows the prostate to be very tender. If the neurosis affects the prostatic urethra, similar symptoms are present, and the passage of a catheter causes severe pain as the instrument enters the bladder. The urethra, however, shows no sign of inflammation, and there is no discharge. The spasmodic variety of neurosis of the prostate is the most frequent of the three, and is characterized by difficulty in micturition, especially in the initiation of the act, which varies from time to time. As a rule, this difficulty is exaggerated by the presence of others, but it may be present and necessitate straining even when the patient is alone. The passage of a catheter after the bladder is supposed to have been emptied will often demonstrate residual urine, but presents no difficulties except a slight one at the neck of the bladder. The spas- modic obstruction is distinguished from those due to organic stricture of the urethra, or to prostatic enlargement, by the facts that there is no lengthening of the urethra, that the difficulty varies from time to time, and that a large catheter passes more readily than a small one. The condition may be associated with attacks of spasm of the detrusor muscle of the bladder, causing urgent micturition without pain or difficulty. Treatment.—^Any inflammatory condition of the urethra or prostate should be attended to, and the patient assured of the absence of serious disease. Too much local treatment, especially if it be painful, is harmful as tending to increase the neurosis. Passage of a large sound daily, with the general treatment of neurasthenia, wiU often result in cure. THE VESICUL^ SEMINALES ACUTE VESICULITIS (SPERMATO-CYSTITIS) Acute vesiculitis is most commonly secondary to acute urethritis, the usual cause being infection by the gonococcus, but it may follow septic urethritis induced by instrumentation of the urethra. Other causes are prostatitis, cystitis, and suppuration after removal of the