426 THE INTESTINES entericus. We know, however, that if more than one-third, that is, a length of about 7 ft., of the small intestine is excised, digestion and absorption are decreased to such an extent as to lead to nutritional deficiency. Absorption is also much impaired in stenosis or paralysis of the bowel, as the result partly of venous stagnation in the wall, and partly of decomposition of the contents and consequent inflam- matory changes. Decreased absorption in the colon is manifested chiefly by an excess of water in the fseces. The effects of motor disturbances are more marked in surgical conditions, and for this reason the intestinal movements deserve mention in some detail. Movements of tiie Small Intestine The small intestine exhibits several varieties of movement, the most important being rhythmic segmentation movements and fcristalsis. These have been investigated in the excised gut, in ansesthetized animals with the peritoneal cavity opened, and in normal subjects by means of X-rays. The last method has been specially elabor- ated by Cannon, and his results have been confirmed in the human subject by Hertz. It consists in giving carbohydrate and protein food-substances in which a bismuth salt is suspended, and examining the shadows cast by the bismuth on the fluorescent screen. Rhythmic segmentation.—Movements of rhythmic seg- mentation, which are the most frequent, are designed to mix the food with the intestinal secretions. While observations are being made through the fluorescent screen, one or more dark cord-like shadows- are seen scattered over the field. These represent segments of the intestine which, for the time being, are at rest. If one of these shadows is watched, it will be observed that, following on this period of rest, it suddenly shows signs of activity, and definite nodes appear at regular intervals. The part of the intestine under observation is divided by the constrictions into " segments," which exist for a brief space of time. Then each segment is split into two " particles," and by the fusion of pairs of particles from adjoining segments, new segments are formed. Scarcely have they appeared than they in turn are halved, and a third series takes their place. The movements of seg- mentation occur at intervals of 7 to 10 seconds ; hence, within half an hour, each small mass of food will have been divided more than 200 times. By these rhythmic movements of segmentation, without changing its position in the intestine, the food is thoroughly mixed with the digestive juices, and brought into intimate contact with the absorptive folds of mucous membrane. In addition, the rhythmic contractions of the muscular wall pump blood from the submucous venous plexuses, and empty the lacteals.