COMPLICATIONS OF GASTRO JEJUNOSTOMY 4^5 jejunostomy is an uncommon condition. It was first described by Braim in 1889 ; twenty years later, Pater son was able to publish the result of his investigation of 52 certain and 11 doubtful cases. Since that date, cases have been recorded by Battle, Lion and Moreau (2), Maylard, Rubritius, Florschutz ; and I have had two under my care. The first, a male aged 47, had had a posterior gastro-jejunostomy with entero-anastomosis performed by another surgeon three years previously. Owing to the recurrence of symptoms, I explored and found a chronic ulcer in the jejunum immediately opposite to the opening in the stomach. In the other case I had perfonned posterior no-loop gastro-jejunostomy six months previously, in a man of 39, for chronic duodenal ulcer. He was suddenly seized with hfematemesis. At the operation I found a typical round chronic ulcer on the anterior surface of the jejunum, an inch distal to the anastomosis. I excised the ulcer, and he has remained well. It is impossible to estimate the frequency with which tliis com- plication occurs, but it is probably not more than 1 per cent. The ulcer is usually solitary, and resembles in every respect that met with in the stomach or duodenum. It may be of the acute or the chronic type, and is usually situate in the ef?erent limb, within an inch of the anastomotic opening. Occasionally, ulceration may be present at the site of anastomosis, involving both stomach and duo- denum ; to this type Paterson gave the name of gastro-jejunal. This latter type appears to be the direct result of operation in most cases, and is often associated with infection of an inner silk suture ; non- absorbable material should not be used for this stitch. Jejunal ulcers have been met with most often in men, and have not been recorded after gastro-jejunostomy for carcinoma of the stomach ; but in one case, published by Eiuar Key, death occurred from the perforation of a jejunal ulcer, twenty days after partial gastrectomy with anterior gastro-jejunostomy had been performed for carcinoma of the stomach. Ulcer has been met with after all forms of gastro-jejunostomy, anterior and posterior, with or without a loop, or entero-anastomosis and " en Y " (Roux's operation). It is undoubtedly met with most often after the Y-type of operation (including the loop operations in which entero-anastomosis has been performed), and after anterior loop operations. It is most uncommon after the posterior no-loop operation. Paterson stated, in 1909, that so far no instance had been recorded. Moynihan states that it may occur after the posterior no- loop method ; the case I have recorded bears this out. Its frequency after the anterior operation is undoubted ; thus, Rubritius has recorded its occurrence in 3 out of 33 cases of anterior gastro-jejunostomy performed by liim ; it did not occur among the 45 posterior operations. Mayo Robson observed it once among 30