THE SALIVARY GLANDS 240 This table may be regarded as evidence in favour of the view that sialo-adenitis is nearly always, if not always, an ascending infection, since most of the micro-organisms mentioned, except the last, h?ive been found in an apparently healthy oral cavity. Epidemic parotitis, the organism of which has not been definitely isolated, is alone in- explicable upon this hypothesis, but even in this case there is generally a prodromal stage of stomatitis, which is, at any rate, presumptive evidence in favour of the view that it is an ascending infection. It must be confessed, however, that the secondary implication of the testis, which is so characteristic a feature of the disease, cannot be explained on such simple grounds. It must, on our present know- ledge, be regarded as an infection by way of the blood-stream. We are, therefore, compelled to recognize two forms of acute sialo- adenitis. 1. Primary Acute Sialo-Adenitis Epidemic parotitis is a highly infectious disorder, attacking adolescents. It is said that males are more commonly attacked than females. The incubation period is long (sixteen to twenty-one days or more, even up to six weeks). The onset is characterized by pyrexia, generally not higher than 101°, and pain below the ear. In a day or two, one parotid gland begins to swell, and its outline becomes obvious. The skin over it is tense and oedematous. A day or two later the gland on the opposite side follows suit. The course of the disease is generally benign. The temperature falls in a week, and the swelling then begins to recede gradually. It usually dis- appears completely in a month, but sometimes induration remains for a longer period. The treatment is simple. The patient should be kept in bed, and a cold compress be applied to the swollen gland. Occasionally, suppuration occurs in the parotid ; an abscess must be incised as -soon as its presence is diagnosed. One of the most interesting features of the disease from a surgical point of view is the inflammation of the testis which sometimes is a complication. The treatment of the orchitis is identical with that of the parotitis. Atrophy of the affected testis, even if spontaneous resolution occurs, supervenes, according to Kocher, in one-third of the cases ; and if the orchitis has been bilateral, sterility often results. Other glands may be similarly affected ; they are the pancreas, the lachrymal glands, and, in the female, the ovary and mamma. ■ 2. Secondary Acute Sialo-Adenitis This differs from the primary form in running a more acute course; in fact, suppuration is the rule.