ACUTE PANCREATITIS 767 supervene ; usually the pulse now becomes accelerated, but it may remain slow. Constipation is generally obstinate, but there may be diarrho?a and even melaena. Albuminuria is common ; glycosuria is rare, but, if found, helps to confirm the diagnosis. Slight jaundice occurs in about one-fifth of the cases. Locally, there are at first great tenderness and rigidity in the upper abdomen, and in from twelve to twenty-four hours an indefinite mass may be felt in the epigastrium or sometimes in the left lumbar region. Later still the signs of epigastric or diffuse peritonitis with fluid or of retroperitoneal cellulitis may be superadded ; or evidence of inflam- matory effusion into the lesser sac may indicate a tendency to localiza- tion and subsequent recovery. In some cases, after an acute onset the symptoms may apparently disappear for a time, but the pulse-rate remains fast, and a mass gradu- ally develops in the pancreatic region ; this is followed by localized suppuration or sloughing of the gland (Plate 101). In others, ultimate recovery after a prolonged illness may follow rupture of an abscess into the bowel, or temporary improvement may end in late death from pancreatic insufficiency. In cases of another class, changes are seen similar to those of acute pancreatitis, but of a milder character. This form may only be revealed during operations for cholelithiasis, and, though recovery often results from removal of the calculi and drainage, is of grave prognosis. Haemorrhage from neighbouring vessels is especially liable to occur in acute pancreatitis. Diagnosis of acute pancreatitis.—Most of the cases have been mistaken for acute intestinal obstruction, visceral perforation, or gall-stones. The most important features are the agonizing pain, often unreUeved by morphia, the tendency to cyanosis, and the very marked epigastric tenderness, soon followed by the development of a mass. These symptoms, with evidence of epigastric peritonitis and a subsequent inflammatory swelling posteriorly, particularly if in the left lumbar region (Korte), are suggestive of acute pancreatitis. The discovery of fat necrosis on opening the abdomen is strongly con- firmatory. The Cammidge test is unrehable in the early stages of acute pancreatitis. A diagnosis of gall-stone disease is often correct, but a more serious pancreatitis may accompany it. The prognosis in acute pancreatitis is always very grave, the mortality being juoliably !■> per cent. Treatment of acute pancreatitis.—Whenever acute pan- creatitis is suspected an operation is demanded : (1) to remove the cause, which will usually mean removal of gall-stones and drainage of the bile passages ; (2) to relieve tension about the pancreas by dividing