478 THE INTESTINES Strangulation is associated with all the signs of acute obstruction. It may be determined in an old-standing hernia by some sudden and violent muscular effort, or by a crush of the body. In traumatic cases, the bowel may become strangulated at the moment it passes through the rent in the diaphragm. Treatment.—In recent traumatic cases, an attempt should always be made to replace the prolapsed viscera in the peritoneal cavity. The rent in the diaphragm must be closed by suture, and to effect this it may be necessary to enlarge the wound and even to resect portions of one or more ribs. When strangulation has occurred and the hernia is discovered on opening the abdomen, before any attempt is made to reduce it the pleural cavity should be opened by a U- or T-shaped incision, with resection of ribs, to avoid the risk of pulUng a gangrenous or per- forated loop of bowel into the peritoneal cavity, to enable the pleural cavity to be purified and drained, and to facilitate the subsequent closure of the opening in the diaphragm. To avoid the risks of pneumothorax incident to free opening of the pleural cavity, such operations should, if possible, be done under altered atmospheric pressure. PEEITONEAL ADHESIONS All varieties of inflammation of the peritoneum are liable to be followed by the formation of adhesions between adjacent serous surfaces. In certain circumstances—for example, after surgical operations on the bowel, as a sequel to drainage of the peritoneal cavity in cases of gastric or intestinal ulcers, cholecystitis, or disease of the mesenteric glands—^the adhesions are confined to the vicinity of the irritant, and may only persist as long as the irritation lasts, serving a protective purpose and being absorbed when they are no longer required. On the other hand, as a sequel to such conditions as generalized septic or tuberculous peritonitis, the adhesions may involve the whole of the peritoneal membrane, matting the intestines into an inextricable mass, and fixing the viscera to one another and to the parietal peri- toneum. Between these extremes all degrees are met with, and the adhesions may take the form of broad thin sheets of fibrous tissue stretching between adjacent coils of bowel (Fig. 408), or narrow strands fixing one short loop to another, or they may be moulded into long cord- like bands passing from one part of the abdominal cavity to another. The effect of adhesions on the function of the bowel bears no direct relation to their extent or disposition, and it is remarkable how little disturbance may result even when the whole intestine is matted into what appears to be a solid mass. When adhesions do give rise to