348 THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM come as a surprise. Their ages were 23, 24 (2), 25, 26, 34, 35, 37, 41, 47, 61, respectively. In none was a definite stomach lesion present, and in all the gall-bladder and appendix were healthy. No patient was the worse for exploration, and in the majority there was an improvement. Even where the typical symptoms are present, particularly in women, the greatest care in examination must be taken. It. must always be remembered that disease of the gall-bladder and of the colon or the appendix may cause "dyspepsia." The stomach symp- toms associated with tabes, and with uraemia and diseases of the bladder and urethra, should be recognized, for gastro-jejmiostomy has been performed on more than one patient suffering from these complaints. A careful study of the patient will ensure diagnosis of the last three groups, but no amount of careful study can at present prevent exploration in certain cases. In the differential diagnosis there are six conditions requiring special study: (1) Gall-stones; (2) gastric crises of tabes; (3) duo- denal ulcer ; (4) appendicitis ; (5) carcinoma ; (6) diseases of the colon. Gall-stones.—It cannot be too often repeated that the "text- book symptoms" of cholelithiasis are late symptoms, and that a large number of patients with stones in the gall-bladder have no attacks of colic, but suffer from gastric symptoms, and are treated for " gastritis," " flatulent dyspepsia," or " gastric ulcer." It is no uncommon thing to find that a patient with gall-stones has been treated for acute gastritis or gastric ulcer. Kraus in 1884 described the early symptoms, and recently Moynihan and Mayo Robson have again laid stress upon them. These " inaugural symptoms " of gall- stones are referred to the stomach ; the patient complains of pain or discomfort witliin an hour of taking food, relieved by belcliing or vomiting. There may be a feeling of chilliness after a meal, parti- cularly in the evenings. In these cases there is not the same re- gularity in the occurrence of pain after meals as in gastric ulcer, and vomiting is more often associated with frequent retching, and does not so frequently relieve the pain. Careful investigation will usually enable a diagnosis to be made. Tabes.—The gastric crises of tabes may cause difficulty in diagnosis, particularly when they occur early in the disease, before the appearance of pupil-changes or the loss of Imee-jerks. In most cases, however, definite signs of tabes are present. The symptoms are usually attacks of epigastric pain, often with rigidity and hyper- algesia, accompanied by the vomiting of large quantities of fluid. It is a condition that should be considered in all anomalous stomach cases. . .