850 THE BLADDER adenoids are present in some cases, and enuresis is said to be due to partial asphyxia during sleep. In other cases there is some abnormality in the urine or bladder, such as highly acid urine, uric-acid crystals, phosphaturia, bacilluria, cystitis, vesical calculus, or tuberculous cystitis. In some cases no source of irritation, no alteration in the urine or disease of the bladder can be found. These cases are called " essential enuresis." In these children there is frequently an heredity of nervous disease, such as epilepsy, neurasthenia, alcoholism, insanity, etc. The child may be nervous, quiet, sensitive, and furtive, and often suffers from stutter- ing and habit spasms. The enuresis is always worse after excite- ment. In a small number of cases the enuresis occurs during a minor epileptic attack. Prognosis.—Where some abnormality amenable to treatment is found, the prognosis is good. In the majority of cases of essential enuresis continence becomes complete with or before the advent of puberty. Most cases get well under treatment, but in a small per- centage the enuresis persists, sometimes into adult life. Treatment—All sources of irritation, such as thread-worms, phimosis, or anal fissure, hyperacid urine, phosphaturia, bacilluria, cystitis, stone, etc., should receive appropriate treatment. When no source of irritation is found, treatment along the fol- lowing lines is indicated : Mental excitement and late hours should be avoided, and sometimes even school and lessons temporarily stopped. The principal meal should be at mid-day, and fluids prohibited after five o'clock. Tea, coffee, ginger-beer and ginger-ale, highly seasoned foods, sugar, and pastry should be avoided, and meat taken only in moderation. The child is trained to hold water as long as possible during the day, and to empty the bladder before bedtime. He should be wakened to micturate after about one and a half hour's sleep. Belladonna is given in doses suitable to the patient's age and idiosyn- crasy. In a child of five years or over the dose should commence with 3 minims of the tincture, and slowly increase up to 30 or 40 minims three times a day unless symptoms of poisoning appear. If the enuresis is controlled the dose is kept a little beyond the point of control for a fortnight, and then gradually reduced. Tincture of lycopodium may be combined with belladonna. Nux vomica and ergot in small doses are sometimes useful, and potassium bromide, anti- pyrin, and fluid extract of Rhus aromatica have been recommended. Local treatment should, if possible, be avoided ; but it is success- ful in some cases where other methods have failed. This consists in the instillation into the prostatic urethra of nitrate of silver (1 per cent.), and treatment with the continuous current applied by means of a urethral electrode.