VESICAL CALCULUS 8/3 bone, or other foreign body in tlie bladder. The two important pre- disposing factors in the production of secondary calculi are bacterial action and stagnation of urine. This combination is frequently found in old men with enlarged prostate and cystitis. Pa>thology.—Vesical calculi are formed of uric acid, phosphates, or oxalate of lime, in that order of frequency, and rarely of cystin, indigo, or calcium carbonate. Uric-acid culculi (Fig. 549, 1-3) may consist of pure uric acid or of am- monium or sodium urates. They are single or multiple, rounded, oval, or flat. The surface is smooth or finely nodular and easily polished. They are sandy-yellow to dark-brown, show regular concentric lamination, and are of hard consistence. Oxalate-of-lime calculi (Fig. 549, 6) are usually single, vary from a jjea to a chestnut in size, and have a dark-brown colour. The surface is covered with closely set conical bosses (mulberry calculus) or a few sharp projecting spines (star form). They are very hard, and on section show irregularly disposed laminje. Phosphafic calculi (Fig. 549, 4, 7) con- sist of basic calcium phosphate, alone or mixed with ammonio-magne«ium phosphate, and perhaps with ammonium urate. They are soft and crumb- ling, but when crystalline are very hard. On section, they are granular and rarely show lamination. Cystin calculi are oval, granular, yellowish-brown, have a soapy appearance, and turn greenish-yellow when exposed to air. Xanthin stones are smooth and yellow, and indigo are blue, while calcium carbonate are greyish-white, earthy-looking, hard stones. Calculi are rarely composed of a single ingredient. Phosphatic stones develop rapidly, a large stone forming in a few weeks. Uric-acid calculi form less rapidly, and oxalate stones require some years to reach moderate size. Vesical calculi may be movable or may be fixed in diverticula (Fig. 519, 8) or saccules, or in the ureteral or urethral orifices. A stone may be spas- modically grasped in the upper part of the bladder, or may be wedged behind an enlarged prostate. Multiple stones may be present to the number of 400 or 500. Cystitis may precede the development of a calculus, or result from its presence. Papilloma or malignant growth rarely complicates stone. Chronic pyelonephritis is the usual cause of death. Symptoms.—There may be preceding attacks of renal colic wlien the stone or its nucleus has descended from the kidney. Fixed and very large calculi are "' latent." Frequent micturition and discomfort after micturition are the earliest and most common symptoms. The frequency of micturition is absent at night unless severe cystitis is present. Pain is felt in the neck of the bladder and is referred to the end of the penis ; it is sharp and cutting, and is experienced at the end of micturition. Hsematuria is frequently present. It is slight, and appears at the end of micturition, and the blood is bright. An intermittent stream is sometimes observed, and complete retention may occur. All the symptoms of stone are aggravated by jolting movements and improved by rest. The urine contains crystals of oxalate of lime, uric acid, or