THE TONGUE 2l6 3. Relative order in which growths and glands should be removed, and the question of removing the glands from the opposite side of the neck.—There is much difference of opinion on these points, and I will briefly review the chief arguments for and against the various procedures. By primary removal of the lingual growth the mouth can be got healthy and clean, the patient relieved of pain, and when he has recovered from this operation the glands can be removed by a systematic dissection. As an objection it is urged that such an operation does not remove all the infected tissue, since, if we are to operate here on the same lines as are practised in the surgery of the mamma, the growth and lymphatics should be removed in continuity. This is certainly a sound objection, but it has been met with the statements (1) that lymphatic infection in lingual cancer is by embolism and not permeation, and that the portions of the lymph system left between the tongue and the glands do not contain cancer cells ; (2) that the operation is much more severe if both glands and growth are removed in continuity—the cellular tissue of the neck is put into free communication with the mouth, and various septic complications are likely to arise. If the first of these two statements is correct—and we have no evidence in its favour—there is good ground for separating the two operations. Personally, however, from the study of sections, I think there is considerable danger of leaving some portion of the growth behind, and pathological opinion favours the idea that this disease spreads by permeation and not by embolism. Lenthal Cheatle has been kind enough to show me some of the work he has done in connexion with lingual cancer. The sections are entirely convincing, and they show a steady spread of the growth by permeation between the muscular fibres of the hyo-glossus in lateral cancer, of the genio-hyo-glossus in median cancer. Recurrence after operation results, in my opinion, from such infected areas being left in the portion of the tongue attached to the hyoid bone, from which situation, as it were from a primary focus, the growth is disseminated towards the glands. The tendency of the growth will be to spread away from the mouth, and this accounts for the fact that recurrence in the mouth is rare. With such evidence before me, and as the result of my own experience, I have no hesitation in saying that the soundest opera- tion consists in removing glands and tongue simultaneously through a wide incision in the neck. Particulars of the operation will be given later. It is a dangerous procedure, however, when both sides must be attacked; but when only one side is attempted it is very satis-