THE URETER 840 THE URETER Anatomy.—The ureter narrows at its junction with the renal pelvis near the lower pole of the kidney, again at the pelvic brim, and again at its entrance into the bladder. As seen in radiography, the upper end of the ureter lies at the tip of the transverse process of the 2nd lumbar vertebra; thence the duct descends across the tip of the transverse process of the 3rd and the transverse processes of the 4th and 5th lumbar vertebrae, and passes vertically across the pelvic brim, internally to the sacro-iliac synchondrosis. It then curves outwards across the outer border of the sacrum and ischial spine, and turns inwards above the shadow thrown by the horizontal ramus of the pubic bone. The ureter is adherent to the peritoneum, and, when the membrane is raised, remains attached to it. In the male its terminal extravesical portion is crossed by the vas deferens. In the female it crosses beneath the broad ligament, and alongside and then in front of the lateral fornix of the vagina and the cervix uteri. Here it passes below and behind the uterine artery, and is surrounded by a dense venous plexus. The intramural portion is | in. long, and passes very obliquely through the bladder. The ureteric orifices open on the bladder base, | in. to 1 in. apart. £iXa<mina,tiO]l.—On deep palpation, in a favourable subject, a thickened ureter can be felt lying alongside the vertebral column. On rectal palpation, in the male the ureter is felt above and outside the base of the prostate, and in the female it may be felt in the anterior wall at the junction of the middle and upper thirds of the vagina. The appearance, movements, and efflux of the vesical orifice of the ureter are examined by cystoscopy or by Kelly's tube. The urine of each kidney is obtained by ureteral catheterization (p. 780). The X-rays sometimes show the shadow of a much dilated or greatly thickened ureter. Calculi impacted in the ureter throw a radiograpliic shadow in the line of the duct. (Plates 38-41. Vol. I.) It is sometimes necessary to pass an opaque bougie up the ureter in order to define the line of the duct and the position of a doubtful shadow. The ureter may be sounded by passing a ureteric catheter or a wax-tipped bougie. PROLAPSE There may be unilateral or bilateral prolapse of the whole thickness of the ureteral wall or of the mucous membrane alone. A globular or sausage- shaped cyst is formed, varying in size from a pea to a walnut or larger. The wall consists of a double layer of mucous membrane, and at the summit of the swelling the stenosed ureteric orifice opens. Calculi are sometimes found in the sac. The condition may result from a congenital narrowing of the ureteric orifice or an acquired stenosis from ureteritis. The symptoms are » irregular. There may be pain in the kidney or ureter, or symptoms of vesical irritation or of urethral obstruction. Occasionally there is complete retention. Attacks of hsematuria may be the only symptom. The cyst may appear at the external meatus in the female subject. The cystoscope shows a pink, semitranslucent, globular or sausage-shaped swelling over which fine blood- vessels course. The cyst may slowly fill and slowly collapse under observa- tion. Treatment consists in cutting off the pouch at its base with scissors and removing any calculi that are present.