V 32 THE BREAST 5. Cysts arising in connexion with malignant tumours. i. Carcinoma with cystic degeneration, or arising in the wall of a pre-existing cyst. ii. Cystic forms of sarcoma. 6. Parasitic cysts due to the echinococcus. In this section galactoceles, simple subareolar cysts, and hydatid cysts will be considered ; cysts of neoplastic origin will be dealt with in the section relating to the tumours with which they are associated. Galactocele A galactocele is a rare mammary cyst containing milk in a more or less inspissated and altered condition. Arising from the obstruction of one of the large ducts or milk sinuses, these cysts are formed during lactation, though they may persist after it has ceased. In rare cases, galactoceles are said to occur in women who have never been pregnant, but some of these cases are probably tuberculous abscesses. The nature of the causative obstruction is not certainly known. Some authors maintain that it arises from excessive proliferation of the duct epithelium ; and blows, injuries, and surgical incisions near the nipple have been claimed as etiological factors. Galactoceles are situated beneath or near the areola, and are, as a rule, single, though I have seen two in the same breast. They are of moderate size, rarely exceeding 3 in. in diameter ; but one enormous example, recorded by Scarpa, after two months' growth contained 10 pints of milk. The wall of the cyst, which in old examples may be of some thickness, is composed of fibrous tissue and lined by the stretched and atrophied epithelium of the duct. The contents may resemble colostrum, or normal inspissated milk, or may be a butter- like material. Symptoms and signs.—Close to the areola there is present a rounded, painless, fluctuating swelling, which on pressure exudes a milky fluid through the nipple. It usually appears during the early weeks of lactation, and may increase in size during the act of suckling (Astley Cooper). In long-standing cases its contents become inspis- sated and its consistence doughy. Diagnosis.—The commencement during lactation, and the exud- ation of milk from the nipple if the cyst be pressed, usually render diagnosis easy. A galactocele may, however, be mistaken for a chronic tuberculous abscess, for a simple subareolar cyst, or for a cyst con- nected with duct papilloma. Treatment.—Unduly active treatment is to be deprecated. If the cyst reaches any size the child should be weaned, the cyst aspi- rated, and pressure applied to the breast by strapping. If these measures fail, the cyst is to be incised radially from the nipple, and