DYSMENORRHCEA the vagina (especially) readily stretcli to accommodate the retained blood. After a while, however, severe spasms of pain are experienced. Relative obstruction occurs when the menstrual contents are relatively too bulky to pass easily through the cervix. The best example is a case of menorrhagia with the formation of intra-uterine clots, the expulsion of which is attended with strong colicky pain. A less frecpent cause is the shedding each month of a mucosal cast from the body of the uterus (membranous dysmenorrhcen), the passage of which is associated with similar distress. In some of these cases the cast-shedding appears to be a natural peculiarity. In others it is the result of inflammatory change {exfoliative endometritis). Congestive dystnenorrhoea.—The pain of all uterine and appendage disease or displacement is accentuated by the monthly congestion of the parts. This accentuation of a pain more or less constantly present is termed congestive dysmenorrhoea. It is best observed in chronic endometritis or salpingitis, especially when associated with retro- version or prolapse. " Ovarian " dysmenorrhcea.—Interference with tlie normal dehiscence of the Graafian follicle, as in chronic salpingo-oophoritis, may possibly, by raising intra-ovarian tension, cause pain. Excessive haemorrhage into the follicle after dehiscence may also produce the same effect. In In certain cases of extreme dysmenorrhoea, although no obvious defect can be discovered on examination, the pain is referred constantly to the region of the ovary on one or both sides, and dilatation of the cervix has no effect. Though the term " ovarian " dysmenorrhoea is often used, monthly pain practically never occurs after hysterectomy with conservation of the ovaries. Treatment.—Many drugs are used for dysmenorrhoea, of which the most important are phenacetin, antipyrin, phenalgin, antikamnia, guaiacum, aletris, styptol, and the bromides. Their results are uncertain, and often only temporary. Definite organic disease, when present, must be treated appro- priately. " Virginal " dysmenorrhoea is most successfully relieved by dilating the uterus up to 12-14 Hegar immediately before the period. Membranous dysmenorrhoea is difficult to cure. Free dilatation of the cervix and curettage is the proper course, but the monthly separa- tion of the cast is likely to recur. In extreme cases of dysmenorrhcea, all otlier treatment failing, subtotal hysterectomy should be performed. Oophorectomy is never to be recommended. LEUCORRHCEA Leucorrhcea impHes a mucous discharge originating in the gland of the cervix. Though a functional increase in this discharge may