636 HERNIA 8. Faecal or urinary iistulse.—These are the outcome of direct injury to the bowel or bladder, from transfixion by sutures or inclusion in ligatures ; or, in the case of the bowel, they are due to subsequent sloughing at the site of constriction when a strangulated loop has been released and returned to the abdomen. Either of these conditions may improve spontaneously after a time, or may require an operation to effect a cure. In the case of the bladder, a catheter should be tied in and the cavity washed out twice a day without forcible distension ; the patient should be given such drugs as urotropine in 10-gr. doses ; acid sodium phosphate 3ss, salol 10 gr., etc., in such vehicles as infusion of buchu, pareira, barley-water, etc. When the bowel has been damaged, much will depend on the level of the injury. If it be in the upper regions of the jejunum, emaciation will ensue rapidly; whereas fistula of the colon produces little change in the nutrition. 9. Suppuration.—Owing to the situation of inguinal and femoral operations, asepsis is more difficult to ensure than in the case of ventral or umbiUcal hernia. But in all cases the greatest care must be taken to avoid infection of the wound, since suppuration is almost certain to be followed by recurrence. Absorbent and imabsorbable sutures like silk and linen thread should be avoided, since they often give rise to sinuses of prolonged duration. The safest material is probably catgut soaked in ether and then treated by Moskowitz's iodine method, or some of the specially prepared brands in sealed tubes ; these latter are, however, very costly. Where deep suppuration occurs, notlxing is gained by waiting except where a fihgree has been implanted ; the wound should be reopened, all sutures removed, the wound swabbed out with pure carboUc or lysol, and Ughtly packed with gauze. After healing, any recurrence must be treated by fihgree implantation. Suppuration following filigree implantation.—In the case of inguinal hernia it is wiser not to remove the fihgree at once—many cases heal soundly with constant washing out; but there is certainly a tendency for the ihac section to shift its position upwards, when the hernia may recur beneath it. In such a case I have been able successfully to close the gap by the implantation of a fresh ihac section after the wound had healed, without removing that which had shifted. In the case of umbilical and ventral filigrees there is httle chance of displacement, since they are held in position by the outer margins of the rectus sheath. Thorough syringing of the wound, which should be opened at the lower end, will overcome the difficulty, peroxide of hydrogen being used in a 5-to-8-volume solution. The ultimate result is simply to render the abdominal wall firmer than ever, owing to the greater amount of cicatricial tissue produced around the fihgree.