GALL-BLADDER AND BILE-DUCTS 754 may suffer from vague abdominal discomfort, or may be entirely free from symptoms, with merely the history of an attack. The gall-bladder may be felt distended or there may be simply deep tenderness. There are stones in the gall-bladder or common duct or both. 4. Quiescent (interval) cases with jaundice.—The patient has the general symptoms of jaundice. The gall-bladder is not en- larged though the liver may be palpable. There are stones impacted in the common duct. Diagnosis—If, after an attack of pain in the upper abdomen, the enlarged and tender gall-bladder can be felt, or there is definite tenderness over the region of the gall-bladder or common duct, the diagnosis of gall-stones is straightforward. In the absence of these signs the diagnosis may have to be made from the history alone. When there is colic, the abrupt seizures, the nausea and vomiting, and the shivering are most suggestive. In cases without colic, the constant local discomfort with sliivering, and the alternation of soreness with periods of complete relief, distinguish the trouble from gastric or duodenal ulcer. Marked shivering, constant slight jaundice, and wasting suggest lodgment of calculi in the common duct, without impaction, so that most of the bile escapes into the bowel. Chronic jaundice, varying in intensity, and free from an oHve-green tint, associated with attacks of colic, is in favour of gall-stones. The com- bination of distension of the gall-bladder with obstructive jaundice renders the diagnosis of gall-stones improbable (Courvoisier's law). {Pig. 519 and Plate 102.) The prognosis is very uncertain. Gall-stones are always dangerous. Acute obstruction may develop in the first attack, and proceed to gangrene, perforation, and peritonitis; or countless attacks of colic may culminate in the passage of all the stones, perhaps after years of suffering ; or, not infrequently, malignant disease or pan- creatitis may supervene. Treatment.—Unless some condition, such as diabetes, extreme obesity, or cardiac or renal disease, renders operation unduly danger- ous, gall-stones should be removed as soon as diagnosed. Palliative treatment during an attack consists in enjoin- ing absolute starvation. Excessive nausea or vomiting demands gastric evacuation and lavage with an alkali. Pain may be alleviated by hot poultices over the hepatic region, while thirst may be relieved and elimination stimulated by the rectal administration of a pint of half-strength saline every four hours. This plan will often obviate the necessity for morphia, with advantage to the rapidity of recovery and the subsequent condition of the patient. Between the attacks, if operation is not to be undertaken, ample exercise, abundant drinks of water, and gentle but efficient laxatives should be advised.