249 MIXED TUMOURS Melanotic sarcoma of the parotid has been described bv Kaufmann and Billroth. The pigment is said to be excessive. It is difficult to understand whence it is derived. When the presence of sarcoma has been diagnosed, the affected ^land should be removed in its entirety. A fibro-sarcoma may, how- ever, be shelled out with its capsule, as has already been said. It .should be noted that the true sarcomatous nature of these tumours has been called in question. Coley has reported a cure of a small round-celled sarcoma of the parotid by the injection of his fluid (Ann. ■Surg., Philadelphia, 1902). C. Mixed Tumours This class of tumour, of which specimens are shown in Figs. 343 ■and 344, is the most interesting from the pathological, as well as the most important from the clinical point of view, since it is the •commonest neoplastic affection of the salivary glands. A mixed tumour forms a localized well-defined outgrowth from the gland. The direction of its greatest prominence will depend upon the portion of the gland from which it takes origin. In the parotid this is usually the anterior inferior angle, and the growth tends to ■extend down into the neck. Occasionally the growth starts on the deep aspect, and it will then extend inwards towards the pharyngeal wall. In the submaxillary gland it usually springs from its superficial surface, and forms a swelling in the submental region. The sublingual _gland is rarely if ever attacked. As a rule, these tumours occur in middle life. Preceding inflam- mation or injury is said to dispose to them. Their form is as variable as their consistence, and depends upon the relative amount of the several connective-tissue elements contained. Most often they are firm, rounded or ovoid, and irregular on the surface. They are movable on the deep structures, if they spring from the superficial aspect of the gland, and the overlying skin is not attached to them. If left, they tend to enlarge progressively; but they are not malignant in the true sense of the word—that is, they do not endanger the hfe of their possessor, do not cause metastasis, and do not recur if completely removed. Mixed tumours cause few symptoms, unless they are allowed to grow to a great size. They may then be painful, and facial paralysis may be observed. In the case of parotid tumours, deafness due to occlusion of the external auditory meatus may be noticed. Excess of salivary secretion is more common than diminution. One curious feature with regard to their growth must be mentioned. Often, after slowly increasing in size for years, they suddenly enlarge rapidly, and many patients then seek advice for the first time. This is an