stricture': OPERATIVE TREATMENT 895 quick succession through the stricture until a large size is reached. This method ruptures the stricture, although the epithelial covering may remain intact, and leads to the development of a denser stricture at a later date. Complications of dilatation. 1. False passage (Fig. 551).— Blood appears at the meatus, and a peculiar sensation of grating is felt. The urethra should be washed with warm boric lotion to which tincture of hamamelis is added. Further instrumentation should be postponed for a week. 2. Infection.—This is prevented by the sterilization of instru- ments, the lubricant, the hands, the washing of the penis and urethra, and the administration of urinary antiseptics before the passage of instruments. Urethral lavage with permanganate-of-zinc solution (1 in 5,000) quickly cures the urethritis. Cystitis and Ascending Pyelonephritis are considered under those headings (pp. 860, 802). 3. Syncope.—Faintness or actual syncope may occur. The patient should be recumbent when instruments are passed. The usual remedies for syncope are adopted. On succeeding instru- mentations a solution of eucaine (8 per cent.) should be injected into the urethra before the instrument is passed. Operative treatment.—In a certain number of cases a cutting operation becomes necessary. The following are the indica- tions for operation :— A. Gradual dilatation may have failed. 1. Cartilaginous stricture. 2. Resilient stricture. 3. Irritable stricture. 4. Haemorrhage. 5. Recurrent epididymitis. 6. Recurrent retention of urine after instrumentation. 7. Periurethral abscess and extravasation during the course of dilatation. B. Cases unsuitable for dilatation. 1. Impassable stricture. 2. Urethral complications such as stone, periurethral abscess, extravasation of urine, fistula. 3. The stricture complicates enlargement of the prostate, stone, tuberculosis, chronic cystitis, and new growths of the bladder. 4. Renal complications. C. The patient is unable or umvilling to carry out dilatation. 1. Residence beyond reach of regular medical aid. 2. Want of time.