RECTAL CARCINOMA : TREATMENT 721 the posterior vaginal wall, and indeed the uterus in a few chosen cases, have been successfully removed ; so has an adherent loop of small intestine. Fixation to the bony pelvis contra-indicates operation, but invasion of the perirectal cellular tissue does not necessarily do so. Each case must be judged upon its own merits, and the age and genera condition of the patient must be fully considered. No attempt at removal must be made during the phase of acute obstruction. The principle to be observed in operation is that the primary growth and the lymphatic drain (whether there be obvious invasion or not) must be removed in continuity, for if this be interrupted the wound may become infected with cancer cells. It is obvious that the perirectal cellular tissue, including the pararectal glands, and the mesentery of the pelvic colon, including the glands along the ha?mor- rhoidal vessels, must be removed. The operations may be classified under two headings, according to whether the growth is removed (1) entirely from the perineal aspect, or (2) partly through the abdomen and partly through the perineum— the combined ahdomino-perineal operation. 1. Perineal approach.—There are two methods of perineal approach—(a) through the true perineum, and (6) from behind, after removing the coccyx, and as much of the sacrum as is necessary. (a) Removal through the true perineum.—By dissection from the perineum, the rectum is severed from its connexions, and the upper rectum or pelvic colon drawn through the perineal wound and sutured to the sldn. In order to mobilize the rectum sufficiently to permit approximation to the perineum without undue tension, it is necessary to sever the muscular (levatores ani), the fascial (visceral prolongations of the pelvic fascia), the peritoneal (the peritoneum of the recto-vesical or recto-vaginal pouch) and the vascular (branches of the superior hfemorrhoidal vessels) connexions. The lower pelvic mesocolon must also often be divided. An endeavour may be made to preserve the external sphincter by commencing the incision, after thoroughly stretching the muscle, at the muco-cutaneous junction, raiding the mucous membrane as in Whitehead's operation, and deepening the dissection into the perirectal tissues at the upper level of the sphincter. Owing to the limited space this attempt often fails, and the great stretching and possibly tearing necessitated may render the muscle impotent. Only very limited dissection is possible by this route. When no effort is made to preserve the sphincter the incision encircles the anus and is prolonged anteriorly and posteriorly in the mid-line. Through this wound a much more thorougli dissection may be performed. (b) Exposure of the rectum from behind.—Kraske introduced this ■2u