TUBAL PREGNANCY: PATHOLOGY 1057 of the gestation sac is due to its sudden distension by extravasated blood. The sac wall gives way and the blood burrows along the muscu- lature of the tube, forming an intramural hsematoma, in the midst of which lies the ovum, usually completely separated from its attachment to the maternal tissues. The blood clots, and a "tubal blood mole " is formed (Fig. 613). This may remain sequestered in the tube wall and possibly eventually become absorbed ; more often, however, the sac gives way in a new direction owing to the fact that the trophoblastic cells in the infiltration zone remain active after the foetal rudiment has perished. This secondary rupture may be intraperitoneal or intra- tubal. In either case the blood mole becomes extruded, and is found either loose in the peritoneal cavity or in process of extrusion from the tube lumen. 5. Intra-uterine rwp- ture.—This can only happen in gestation in the interstitial segment of the tube, and is a rare event. It would produce the signs of miscarriage with severe bleeding, and its oc- currence is probably usually overlooked. Secondary ruptures.—In most cases of tubal gestation severa ruptures of the gestation sac and tube have occurred before opera- tion. Thus, after primary intramural rupture, secondary rupture of the sac into the tube lumen or peritoneum may occur. In other cases the hajmatosalpinx formed by primary intratubal rupture may subsequently give way. This fact accounts for the usual history of several attacks of pain and faintness at intervals of some hours or days. Many of these secondary ruptures produce quite tem- porary escapes of blood through the apertures being quickly closed by blood clot. Secondary sacs {intraperitoneal and intraligamentous gestation). —Rupture of the primary gestation sac, which always occurs before the third month, usually kills the embryo, but occasionally, if the chorionic villi retain their attachment to the tube wall, the gestation survives and continues to grow in a secondary sac either in the peritoneal cavity or between the layers of the broad ligament. (Fig. 614.) In the first case the sac wall is formed by the tube, the back of the broad •V Fig. 612.—Acute intra- peritoneal rupture of an early tubal gestation (half actual size). Fig. 013.—Tubal mole in section.