MALFORMATIONS OF RECTUM: TREATMENT 671 been given by the simplest method, a considerable proportion of the infants will die, even when operation is undertaken early. i. The deformity consists of a membrane of varying thickness between the proctodwum and the rectum.—The jjroctodaeum is well developed, and a marked bulging of the rectum into it will be felt when the infant strains. All that is necessary is to incise the membrane and remove as much of it as possible. Some degree of congenital narrowing of the lumen of the bowel may be present at the site of attachment of tlie membrane to tlie bowel wall. This must be overcome by the frequent passage of a finger or the bougie. ii. The froctodceum may or may not be developed, and there is no evidence to show the degree of development of the rectum. —Two methods of procedure are possible—(a) immediate colostomy, and some weeks or months later the establishment of an anus in a normal position, or (b) an immediate attempt to form an anus in the normal position by a perineal dissection. In deciding between these alternatives it must be remembered that the degree of development of the proctodasum is not proportional to that of the development of the rectum, which, with a well-developed proctodeum, may be found as high as the base of the prostate or tlie vagina ; that the only permissible method of forming the anus in the perineum is freely to separate the rectum from its connexions, and draw it to the anal margin, or the skin of the future anus, witJiout tension—a dissection wliich, if tlie rectum ends high, will be very difficult to execute in an infant two or three days old suffering from intestinal obstruction, and will very probably be fatal; that the mere exposure and opening of the rectum, allowing the contents to escape tlirough the track thus made, will only be followed by irremediable stricture, which of itself will sooner or later prove fatal; that the most rapid method of giving relief should be chosen ; and that the immediate results of colostomy are superior to those of a primary perineal anus. As a general rule, therefore, it is best to perform colostomy. This should be done through as small an incision as possible in the left iliac region. The excoriation of the skin which will occur around the opening, may, with care, be kept well under control, and is probably no worse than that which occurs in the perineum when an anus is made there. Later, at a time which will vary with the condition of the child's health, an attempt is made to form a perineal anus. It may be necessary, if the postallantoic gut be absent, to remove the coccyx. Any muscle fibres should be carefully preserved. The rectum must be separated from its surroundings (wliich will often mean a free opening of the peritoneal cavity), and so mobilized that it may be sutured to the sldn of the perineum without tension. Later the colostomy is closed. This operation, if the rectum is low in the perineum and the proctodseum