GASTRIC CARCINOMA : ETIOLOGY 379 that in 3,679 post mortem examinations on cases of gastric cancer. 2.162— i.e. 60 per cent, of the subjects—were males. Race.—Bainbridge has stated that the black races are almost immune, and cancer of the stomach is said to be practically unknown among the natives in Natal, Gambia, and West Africa. Gastric ulcer.—It is held by all surgeons who have worked at the question that chronic gastric ulcer predisposes to the development of gastric carcinoma. Evidence of this has been gradually accumulat- ing since its possibility was first discussed by Cruveilhier in 1839, and Roldtansky a year later. Dittrich, in 1848, described 6 cases in wliich carcinoma developed in the immediate vicinity of active or healed ulcers. The evidence of the relationship has of late been entirely surgical ; in fact, physicians generally have been somewhat sceptical with regard to it. Osier and McCrae in 1900, in their work on " Cancer of the Stomach." found that in only 4 out of 150 cases was there a history of ulcer ; they say : " We may conclude, so far as the figures show anything, that the victims of chronic dyspepsia and the various forms of gastritis are not more prone to malignant disease than other individuals." The great development of gastric surgery since that date has led to other views. Among 87 patients with carcinoma of the stomach upon whom I operated up to December, 1911, there was in 31 a definite history pointing to chronic gastric ulcer, symptoms having been present for from five to twenty-eight years. Mayo Robson, in cases in which he operated, found a suggestive history in 59 per cent.; Moynihan, in 60 per cent. Mumford and Stone traced 60 patients who had been treated at the Massachusetts General Hospital for " chronic indigestion," and subsequently died, no less than half with gastric cancer. The most convincing evidence has been put forward by Wilson and MacCarty as the result of their examination of specimens removed by operation in the Mayos' clinic. In 71 per cent. (109 out of 153 cases) there was naked-eye and microscopical evidence that carcinoma had developed from pre-existing ulcers. The facts that carcinoma and chronic gastric ulcer are both more common in men than in women, and that they have their usual seat in the same part of the stomach, are suggestive of a close relationship between them. There can, in my opinion, be no doubt that gastric ulcer is a pre- disposing cause of cancer of the stomach in a large proportion of cases. Pathology.—-Carcinoma may start primarily in the stomach or affect it secondarily. The secondary variety is comparatively rare and of little surgical importance ; it occurred in 7 per cent, of the 265 post-mortem examinations of cancer of the stomach recorded by Fenwick, and Hale White states that it occurs in 6 to 7 per cent, of the cases. In the other published series the percentage has been as low as 1, which is in agreement with experience at the London Hospital.