REMOVAL OF FOREIGN BODIES 273 the tissue planes in the neck. The dissection to expose the oesophagus should be made with accuracy, and with as little tearing of the tissues as possible. The opening made in the oesophagus wail can usually be closed by absorbable sutures, and free drainage must be permitted ; in fact, the wound may be entirely left open for this purpose. In most cases a fistula occurs and persists for a short time, especially if ulceration be present, but, as a rule, it closes spontaneously.- Rectal feeding is advisable for three days after this operation. If the foreign body be impacted in the oesophagus at its lower part, it may be ex- tracted from below- after gastrotomy. Ac- cording to Richardson, 3 in. of the lower end of the oesophagus is accessible for this pur- pose. The most difficult problem to deal with is impaction of a body in that part of the oesophagus inaccessible from above or from below. For these diffi- cult cases, Bryant has devised and carried out the operation of mediastinal oesophagotomy. He approaches the oesophagus from the right side, in the case of a foreign body situated below the aortic arch, by resecting portions of three ribs close to the spine. The posterior mediastinum is opened up and the oesophagus incised. In this operation there is great risk of infection, and it has seldom been carried out in this country. Fortunately, impaction of a foreign body rarely takes place in that portion of the oesophagus which is inaccessible from above or below. It may be possible, by means of forceps introduced through the tube of an oesophagoscope, as in a case mentioned above, to displace a body impacted in this position downwards until it comes within reach of the cardiac orifice. Gastrotomy is indicated for the removal of bodies situated 13 in. or more below the incisor teeth. The stomach is opened and attempts are made to dilate the cardiac orifice by the finger or a suitable instrument. s Fig. 352.—Tooth-plate removed by the author by cervical oesophagotomy. It had lodged opposite the 3rd dorsal vertebra.