WOUNDS OF THE TONGUE made for the bleeding-point. This is a difficult matter even when skilled assistance is at hand, and without it the operator is severely handicapped. It may be wise, owing to the severity of the hajmorrhage, to per- form laryugotomy and to plug the pharynx before attempting to deal with the bleeding. I strongly recommend this in a difficult case, as I have invariably practised it before any extensive operation on the mouth or jaws, and am very much impressed with its value. A good deal of difficulty will be experienced, even under tlie best conditions, in applying a ligature to the bleeding vessel, as the tongue tissue is friable and readily tears away in the pressure-forceps. If this occurs, it is better at once to under-run the vessel with a silk ligature by means of a curved needle ; even though some of the lingual tissue is included and may slough, the procedure is a satisfactory one. The haemorrhage having been arrested, search must be made for a foreign body, and the edges of the wound may be drawn together, but it must not be closed completely. Cases may be met with wliere the above directions will fail, necessi- tating ligature of the lingual artery, or even of the external carotid in the neck, but they will be infinitely rare. In secondary haemorrhage the same treatment should be carried out, though the sloughing condition of the tissues may make ligation of the vessel a matter of the greatest difficulty, and the operator will do well to under-run it with a silk ligature at once. It will rarely he necessary to tie the main vessels in the neck. The after-treatment of wounds of the tongue consists in promotmg oral asepsis with mouth-washes, of which carbolic acid 1-40, hydrogen peroxide 1-4, are the most effective. Fluids only must be taken, and if there is much swelling and pain the patient should be fed per rectum. A careful watch must be kept for a-dema of the glottis, a complicatioi; necessitating tracheotomy, also for secondary haemorrhage and for abscess. Gunshot wounds are to be treated on the same main Imes as punc- tured wounds ; they are very liable to be followed by secondary hannor- rhage and abscess, and therefore should not be closed completely. Stings of the tongue are to be regarded as poisoned wounds. Generally speaking, the treatment should be similar to that employed for scalds, but there is some danger of onset of ccdema of the glottis. BURNS AND SCALDS The degree of severity of these injuries varies, here as in other parts of the body, from slight erosion to deep destruction. Slight b\irns which result from cigarettes or other causes merely lead to superficial destruction of the papilla?, but are very painful