MALIGNANT DISEASE 869 In some cases total cystectomy after ureterostomy is the only opera- tion wLicli holds a prospect of cure. Owing to the high immediate and remote mortality, cystectomy can only be adopted in very rare cases. Results.—The mortality of open radical operations for papilloma of the bladder is very small under modern conditions. In Rafin's statistics there was a mortality of 3'8 per cent, in 156 cases. Recurrence of papilloma took place in 28 per cent. With more thorough operations better results can be obtained. Adenotna of the bladder is a rare tumour arising in the glands at the base. It may be diffuse or circumscribed. Cholesteatoma consists in a great thickening of the epithelium, which becomes squamous and pearly in appearance. It is very rare. Carcinoma A number of malignant growths differing widely in their gross and microscopic characters are grouped under this head, viz. malignant papilloma, nodular and infiltrating growths. 1. Alalignant papilloma.—A papillomatous tumour may be malig- nant from an early stage of development, or it may have the characters of a simple villous tumour for many years and then become malignant. In a malignant growth the villi are stunted and irregular in size and shape, and the tumour is irregular in contour and sessile. The bladder wall becomes infiltrated and the mucous membrane at the base of the tumour adherent to the submucous tissue. Microscopically there is rapid and irregular proliferation of the epithelium, and the base shows the invasion of lymphatic spaces and veins by irregular masses of cells. 2. Nodular (jrowths.—These are sessile, rarely pedunculated, irre- gular, nodular or smooth, and varying in size from a hazel-nut to a Tangerine orange. Occasionally there is a round timiour with a flat or depressed surface showing stunted villi. These tumours belong to the papillomatous group, and consist of a mass of irregular villi closely matted together, and sometimes necrotic on the surface. In the deeper part, masses of cells infiltrate the muscular planes, passing along the lymphatic vessels. 3. Infiltratituj grouihs.—The growth forms flat nodules on the surface, but its greatest extent is intramural. It may take the form of a hard, depressed ulcer surrounded by nodules or by a raised hard ring of growth. The histological structure varies as follows, viz. :—(a) Epithe- lioma : Squamous epithelioma (chancroid) with cell nests develops in a patch of leucoplakia. (b) Cylindrical epithelioma or adcno-carcinoma develops in the tubular glands at the base of the bladder and is rare, (c) Spheroidal-celled carcinoma : This foims a soft or hard tumour