34 THE BREAST single tumour of slow growth, of considerable size, and presenting the other characters already referred to, raises a presumption of hydatid. A hydatid cyst does not give rise to discharge from the nipple—a point of distinction from cystic duct papilloma. A simple cyst rarely attains a size beyond that of an egg. The diagnosis can only be made con- clusive by an exploratory puncture. If the fluid withdrawn is free from albumin, and more especially if it contains hooklets, the diagnosis of hydatid is established. Treatment.—The disease is practically free from risk to life. An incision radiating from the nipple is made down upon the cyst, which is enucleated entire. The cavity may be obHterated by suturing its walls together, and the skin sewn up. Of course, if suppuration is present, no attempt to secure primary union must be made. Diagnosis of mammary cysts. — Cysts of the breast are often very tense, and consequently fluctuation is frequently absent, and diagnosis from a solid tumour may be impossible, especially if the cyst is deeply situated, without the aid of an exploring needle. The use of this instrument is free from objection, and is painless if a little ethyl chloride be used to freeze the skin. Microscopical examina- tion decides whether the fluid is milky as in galactocele, serous as in duct papilloma, purulent as in tuberculous abscess or acute mammary abscess, containing hooklets as in hydatid cyst, or bloody as in malig- nant growth and in duct papilloma. Usually the microscopical examina- tion is practically negative. If albumin is present in the fluid, non- suppurating hydatid cyst is of course excluded, and the diagnosis probably lies between two common types of cyst—the simple cyst associated with chronic mastitis, and the papilloma-bearing cyst. In the latter case there is usually a liistory of serous discharge from the nipple, often blood-stained. This brief summary fails to take account of the cysts associated with malignant tumours, which, though rare, are of great importance. The question, "Is a malignant neoplasm also present ? " arises in every case of cyst. The size of the cyst is of great significance in settling this question. Simple cysts of the breast rarely exceed 1 to 2 in. in diameter. They are usually situated near the nipple, and do not rapidly increase in size. If the cyst is large and rapidly developed, a grave suspicion of malignant disease or of duct papilloma must be entertained, even though after aspiration no induration remains in the breast. I have a vivid recollection of removing by aspiration 15 oz. of fluid from a cyst, leaving the breast apparently quite soft and normal. Within six months the patient was dead from a most acute carcinoma, wliich developed so rapidly that operation was evidently useless. The rare cases of rapidly growing cystic