5^4 THE PERITONEUM will be absorbed spontaneously. Even a large perinephric swelling may be so absorbed, though incision may be required for secondary suppuration of the hsematoma. DISEASES OF THE PERITONEUM /. INFLAMMATORY A. ACUTE DIFFUSE PERITONITIS Definition.—A spreading inflammation of the peritoneum which is unlimited by adhesions. To this form the term " general peri- tonitis " is sometimes apphed, but it is best abandoned as incoriectly implying that the whole peritoneal surface is involved. The cause of such peritoneal inflammation is in all cases bacterial infection. A spreading inflammation can be caused by injection into the peritoneal cavity of sterile irritating fluids, and to these experi- mental forms the terms " aseptic " and " chemical " peritonitis were formerly applied. In the same way it was long thought that peri- tonitis resulting from haemorrhage into the unopened peritoneal cavity coiSld cause a " chemical " peritonitis, and the same expression was also formerly applied to the peritonitis which occurs in the early stages of intestinal obstruction. Bacteriological examination of the peri- toneal surface, especially that covering the great omentum, as well as of the exudate, has thrown grave doubt upon the existence of a non-bacterial peritonitis. According to Dudgeon and Sargent, the Staphylococcus alhus ap- pears to have a distinct and definite part to play in peritonitis. It makes its appearance early in inflammatory affections of the peri- toneum, from whatever cause they may arise, and can be isolated from the exudate and from the surface of the bowel or omentum. It is found in the sacs of strangulated hernias and in the clot from an intraperitoneal haemorrhage, as well as in the early stages of inflam- mation or strangulation of the abdominal viscera. It is probably protective in function, determining the appearance of a fluid exudate rich in phagocytes, which do not degenerate in its presence, and having also to do with the formation of adhesions. Just as the resistance of the peritoneum to infection can be arti- ficially raised by the preliminary injection of various sterile fluids, notably nucleic acid (von Mikulicz), so the injection of a culture of this white staphylococcus into the peritoneal cavity of an animal is able to protect it against an otherwise fatal dose of the colon bacillus (Dudgeon and Sargent). Many different organisms are found to cause peritonitis in man, the most important by far being the colon bacillus. These organisms