i68 THE TONGUE BIFID TONGUE This very rare condition arises from the incomplete fusion of the two parts which form the tuberculum impar, and represents a develop- mental error occurring at a very early date, the form being comparable to the forked tongue of the reptilia. The malformation may be asso- ciated with hare-lip or cleft palate. Treatment is comparatively simple in those cases that require it. The edges of the cleft are pared, and the raw surfaces united with sutures. ANKYLOGLOSSIA Abnormal fixation of the tongue occurs as either a congenital or an acquired deformity. The congenital variety, when not associated with a rudimentary condition of the organ, results from intra-uterine inflammatory changes, or from imperfect destruction of embryonic structures such as the pharyngeal membrane, or possibly as the result of imperfect innervation and movement. The amount of control of the frsenum upon the tongue being largely influenced by movement of the organ, as shown by the fact that some cases of acquired tongue- swallowing are due to stretching of this anchoring band, it is possible that, as in the case of joints, some interference with the normal range of movement that should obtain during embryonic life is responsible for the short and adherent frsenum. Cases such as the one described by Lapie, where there were large adhesions between the tongue and the palate—a form described by French writers as superior ankyloglossia—suggest either some inflam- matory source for the adhesions, or the persistence of some membrane ; while in the more common variety—the inferior ankyloglossia, which is the more complete when the tongue is very rudimentary^—it would seem probable that lack of motive power is an important factor in producing this result. In this inferior form we can recognize two varieties—the complete, which is properly considered above under the heading of congenital absence, and the more common partial form. In point of fact, partial ankyloglossia is uncommon, as insisted on by Butlin, who deprecates the number of unnecessary operations often performed for a condition which will tend to rectify itself. The routine section of the frsenum is to be unhesitatingly condemned. Children of rather weak mental development, who learn to speak late, are often subjected to the operation of " cutting the tongue-tie," in the hope that it will help the development of speech. This idea is entirely erroneous, since, given the requisite mental power, speech is quite possible in the most severe forms of ankyloglossia. Should, however, a case present itself in which the frsenum is