393 DUODENAL CARCINOMA Prognosis—Tlie average duration of life is about seven months (Feuwick). Ha-morrliage, perforation, abscess, external or internal fistula, may complicate tlie course of the disease. Treatment. — PalUative treatment is frequently all that is possible. In most cases this will consist in gastro-jejunostomy, but, when obstructive jaundice is present, relief may be obtained by chole- cystenterostomy. When the growth involves the first portion of the duodenum, removal, together with the adjacent portion of stomach, subpyloric and right gastro-epiploic glands, should be carried out. Carcinoma of the third part of the duodenum has been successfully removed by Syme. Hitherto, operations for malignant growth of the second portion of the duodenum have been palliative only, the growth being locally excised and the common bile-duct re-implanted. Cases have been recorded—by Korte, in which the patient was alive nearly four years after the operation ; by Deaver, in which the patient was alive and well one year after operation ; and by Czerny, Halsted, and W. J. Mayo, in which the patient died a few days after operation. Radical operation in this situation will always necessitate removal of a portion of the pancreas in addition to the duodenum. The duodenum and head of the pancreas were first removed by Codivilla in 1898, gastro-jejunostomy and' eholecystenterostomy being per- formed, and the patient d}ang twenty-four days later. Attention has again been directed to this possibility by the recent work of Trench surgeons. Desjardins, in 1907, and Sauve, in 1908, published suggested methods of operation, which, however, had the same failing, that they were operations intended to be completed in one stage. As patients with obstructive jaundice stand prolonged operative procedures badly, Kausch, in 1909, devised and carried out successfully a two-stage operation which is an advance in the surgery of this region. At the first operation the gall-bladder was united to the jejunum and entero-anastomosis done below. At the second operation, performed after disappearance of the jaundice, a posterior gastro-enterostomy was made, the pylorus divided and closed, and the descending portion of duodenum removed. The common bile-duct was ligatured after as much as necessary had been removed, a portion of the head of the pancreas excised, and the lower duodenal end then drawn over the stump. The case was reported a month after operation. SARCOMA OF THE STOMACH Sarcoma of the stomacli is a comparatively rare disease. It was first recorded by Sibley in 1816 ; Schlesinger, in 1897 was able to collect 35 cases ; Howard, in 1902, 61 cases; Ziesche and Davidsohn, in 1900, 150 cases. It may occur at any age, but is most common between the ages of 30 and 50. The sexes are equally aifected, except in libro-sarcoma, which is more common in women.