FACE, LIPS, AND PALATE witli a cleft palate cannot even be taught to articulate clearly, and when the defect is remedied his speech is so little better that the phonetic lesson must be commenced all over again. The advocates of the early operation close the cleft by the methods of Arbuthnot Lane or Brophy ; those who favour the late operation employ Langenbeck"s method. In order to obtain the best phonetic result, two factors are essential: (1) that the soft palate should be well formed and freely movable, and (2) that the child should not have learned to talk before the closure of the cleft is brought about. Brophy's method is the only one that fulfils both these requirements. Un- fortunately, the operation is a severe one, is only applicable in selected cases, and in some unsuccessful ones has been followed by extensive necrosis of the maxillfe and sloughing of the soft parts. It is owing to the danger of necrosis that this ingenious operation has not received more general support amongst English surgeons. Arbuthnot Lane's method complies with one of the essentials, in that the cleft is closed long before the child commences to talk ; but, owing to the extensive flaps that must be fashioned, the resulting soft palate is seldom mobile, and phonation suffers in consequence. Similarly, Langenbeck's method fails in one of the necessary requirements, inasmuch as it can seldom be performed until after speech has commenced ; but it undoubtedly possesses the great advantage of leaving the patient with a well-shaped, freely movable soft palate, which, so far as the phonetic result of the operation is concerned, is an absolute necessity. Taking these various facts into consideration, and disregarding the ideal operation of Brophy for the reasons already mentioned, my opinion is that Langenheclc s operation, performed hettveen the ages of tivo and three years, or earlier if the size of the cleft and the thickness of the tissues permit, gives the best result in the majority of cases. Coexisting hare-lip should be operated upon at the age of three months. When Lane's method is employed, how- ever, the treatment of the defect in the lip should invariably be deferred until some weeks after the palate has been successfully closed. Preparation of the patient.—It is always advisable to place the patient, a week before the operation, under the care of the nurse who is to look after it, so that it may become accustomed to its surroundings and have any irregularities in its diet corrected. If the bowels are acting regularly there is no necessity to upset the cliild by administering an aperient, but if there be constipation a small dose of castor oil should be given twenty-four hours before operating. When the time comes, the child should be warmly wrapped up, and