GASTRIC ADHESIONS 359 bound the stomach to the pancreas in 49, to the liver in 33, to the colon in 7, and to the liver and colon together in 4. In the majority of cases, adhesions, whether due to extrinsic or intrinsic causes, give rise to no symptoms whatever. In the pyloric region, as the result of constriction or fixation of the pylorus at a higher level than normal, dilatation may result (see p. 327). Adhesion of the stomach to the anterior abdominal wall or constriction by adhesion may lead to hour-glass stomach. In such cases as these definite symptoms of stenosis will be present. It is in the cases in which pain is the prominent feature that difficulties are most likely to occur. Pain arises most often when the adhesions are to the most movable portion of the stomach, the greater curvature. Hale A¥hite, speaking of this subject, says : " I am not sure, but I think they most often give rise to symptoms when they connect the stomach with the bowel." The pain is often worse after food, but it may be absent for days and weeks, and in some cases bears no relation to meals. It is often worse on exertion, and the patient may complain that the pain is increased if she reaches above the head or stands quite erect. The long-continued pain may set up neurasthenic symptoms. There may be distinct deep tenderness with muscular rigidity over the area occupied by the adhesions. Diagnosis.—This must rest on the history of previous abdominal trouble such as might cause a local peritonitis. Treatment.—If the adhesions have caused hour-glass stomach or gastric dilatation, the appropriate treatment for these conditions must be carried out. When pain is the cliief complaint and is of sufficient severity to interfere with the patient's work, operation should be undertaken for the purpose of separating the adhesions, care being exercised to avoid overlooking any perforation of stomach which may have been closed by them. The adhesions should be cleanly divided, and both ends ligatured. If a large raw surface is left, the edge of the omentum may be used to cover it. Attempts at preventing the re-formation of adhesions by covering the raw surface with Cargile membrane or by leaving saline solution in the abdominal cavity have not been very successful. Symptoms may persist after the division of adhesions, particularly in women in whom neurasthenia has supervened. DUODENAL ULCER Ulcers resembling those occurring in the stomach, and probably caused in a similar way (see p. 340), are frequently found in the duodenum. They may be divided into the acute and the chronic. Etiology.—As in the stomach, the acute ulcers may be found