'34 FACE, LIPS, AND PALATE (2) the shaping of the nostril; (3) the paring of the margins of the- The addition of cream is important as a fattening agent, and Barbadoes'- sugar is preferable to the Demerara or crystaUized variety on account of its better laxative properties. The milk should be sterilized or pasteurized as a routine, for it is practically impossible to obtain bacteriologically pure milk, no matter how healthy the cow or how carefully the milk is collected and conveyed. The addition of sodium citrate, in the proportion of one grain to the ounce of milk, is often of great assistance in diminishing the size of the curd and rendering the milk more digestible. Patent foods and tinned milks should never be given. The child's condition can always be greatly improved by daily inunction with cod-liver oil after a warm bath, the unpleasant odour and greasy nature of the oil being compensated for by its beneficial effect. The room in which the operation is performed should be well heated, and the infant should be well wrapped up. Young babies being very susceptible to shock, every precaution should be taken to guard against it. Position of the patient.—The position of the infant during operation depends mainly on the individual habit of the operator : some prefer the upright position, the child then being wrapped in a blanket, with the arms and legs secured, and seated on a firm cushion placed upon the nurse's lap ; others go to the opposite extreme and favour the supine position with the head hanging over the end of the table. As a matter of fact, any position will do, provided it be so arranged that blood cannot trickle into the pharynx. Perhaps the most satisfactory position is a semi-reclining one, with the head tilted to one side and steadied by an assistant so that blood can readily escape and the surgeon can obtain a good view of the lip. The operation.—In order to avoid repetition, the general principles of the operation will be described first, and later a few of the most useful and practical methods of closing the defect will be given. For a full account of the numerous methods and modifications- that have been suggested and employed, the reader is referred to a manual of operative surgery. The choice of the ansesthetic naturally depends upon the ansesthe- tist, but, as a general rule, chloroform, given on a mask to commence with, and continued with a Junker's inhaler, is very satisfactory pro- vided that special care be taken not to push the anaesthesia beyond the " contracted-pupil " stage. The operation should never be per- formed without an anaesthetic. Before it is begun, the nose and mouth should be cleared of mucus, and the lips washed with ether soap. The main principles that underlie a successful and ornamental issue are (1) the free liberation of the Up, the cheek, the ala of the nose, and occasionally of its columella, from the underlying bono ;.