364 THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM occur. I have recorded cases of this nature in which it was im- possible to make a certain diagnosis between duodenal ulcer and gall-stones. Complications.—Stenosis of the pylorus may result after many years ; this sequel brought the patients under my care in 18 out of 70 cases of chronic iilcer. Haemorrhage.-—It is impossible to estimate the frequency with which bleeding occurs. The blood may be vomited, but generally only appears in the faeces. Slight hsemorrhage, such as may be dis- covered by tests for " occiilt blood," is probable in most cases. Craven Moore found it in all the cases under his care. Severe hsemorrhage is a late and serious complication. The bleeding may come on without warning and cause sudden fainting, followed by the passage of a tarry motion, with or without the vomiting of blood. In other cases it may occur insidiously without the knowledge of the patient. The bleeding may be fatal, the source of the blood being the gastro-duodenal, superior pancreatico-duodenal, right gastro-epiploic, or pyloric arteries. In a few cases death has been sudden. Jaundice may develop as the result of the cicatrization of ulcers of the second part, or of the spread of inflammation into the common bile-duct, but is a rare complication. Pancreatitis may be present, due to a spread of the associated duodenal inflammation. In a large number of cases of chronic duo- denal ulcer the Cammidge reaction may be obtained. Diagnosis.—In about 85 per cent, of the cases the typical character of the recurring attacks of hunger-pain will render the diagnosis almost certain. Difficulty arises in those which do not conform to this type. It must not be considered that hunger-pain, or pain two or three hours after food relieved by taking food, is found only in association with duodenal ulcer, for it occasionally occurs also in cases of gastric ulcer. In cholelithiasis, attacks of pain two or three hours after food may cause duodenal ulcer to be thought of, but in these cases the pain is not relieved by a warm drink or soda bicarbonate, as in duodenal ulcer ; moreover, in cholelithiasis retching and vomiting are common, wliilst they are usually absent in duodenal ulcer. In doubtful cases the faeces may be tested for traces of blood^ " occult " hsemorrhage. The examination of the gastric contents after a test meal is of great service in enabling a diagnosis to be made. Chronic duodenal ulcer uncomplicated by secondary gastric dilatation is associated with an excess of free HCl and the total acidity is high. In cholelithiasis this is unusual ; in long-standing cases free HCl is usually absent and the total acidity is low.