324 THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM In rare cases the constriction is close to the cardia, and the symptoms resemble those of oesophageal obstruction. Free HCl is usually absent and the total acidity of the gastric contents low. It is important to consider every case of dilated stomach as a possible hour-glass stomach, so as to avoid the fatal error of performing gastro-jejunostomy on a dilated pyloric pouch. In every stomach- operation, the whole of the stomach must be examined to prevent such errors in treatment. Treatment.—This consists in providing free exit for the stomach contents. Gastro-jejunostomy should be done in every case. Where there is a large cardiac pouch with a small pyloric one, this operation will suffice, but if pyloric stenosis is also present it is not enough ; gastroplasty should be combined with it, or, as suggested by von Hacker in 1895, and by Weir and Foote in 1896, a separate gastro- jejunostomy done on each pouch. This, I believe, will be more fre- quently done in the future. To avoid the risk of hernia between the stomach at the constriction and the jejunum between the two openings, the gut should be imited to the stomach. Where more than two pouches exist they should be connected by gastro-gastrostomy, and then gastro-jejunostomy performed on the largest pouch. Other operations have been proposed, such as gastroplasty or a gastro-gastrostomy alone ; but Paterson has shown that these are associated with 25 to 30 per cent, of relapses. If the condition be due to malignant disease, partial gastrectomy should be performed. Results.—Veyrassat has collected all the cases recorded to August, 1908. There are 181. Of these, 73 were treated by gastro- jejunostomy ; 72 per cent, were cured, and only 2-7 per cent, failed. Of the 14 deaths, 6 were due to the anastomosis being done to the pyloric pouch. ACUTE DILATATION OF THE STOMACH This condition is by no means uncommon. Its diagnosis is of the utmost importance to the surgeon, following as it sometimes does abdominal operations, with an inevitably fatal result unless recognized early. There is no doubt that many cases recorded as " postoperative ileus " were of this nature. Although its recognition dates from the description given in the Gw/s Hospital Reports of 1872-3 by Hilton Fagge, Rokitansky in 1842 had drawn attention to one of the features connected with it —compression of the third part of the duodenum by the mesentery and superior mesenteric artery as a cause of intestinal obstruction