THE INTESTINES 490 Tlie illness begins witli an attack of severe intestinal colic, wliicli causes the child to scream out and draw up his knees. The face is pale and manifests severe suffering ; the eyes are bright and widely opened, as in fear. Soon after the onset of the pain, the child usually empties the stomach by vomiting, but the vomiting is not severe or persistent, and even in advanced cases it seldom becomes fsecal. The lower bowel is often emptied also, the motion being a normal one. This is followed by persistent tenesmus, a considerable quantity of mucus tinged with blocd being expelled at frequent intervals. After a time, the symptoms abate, but they soon recur. In the intervals the patient may be unnaturally quiet and listless, but otherwise appears quite well. In most cases a general anaesthetic should be administered to admit of a satisfactory examination of the abdomen and rectum. When the abdomen is examined it is often observed that the right iliac fossa is abnormally empty, and a firm, sausage-shaped swelUng, curved with its concavity towards the umbilicus, can be felt in the line of the transverse or of the descending colon. The swelling may be recognized to harden and become more definite daring the spasms of pain. There is seldom distension of the abdomen during the first two or three days. The abdominal muscles are not rigid, ^.nd, so long as the swelling is not pressed upon, the child does not resent examination of the abdomen. If the intussusception has reached the pelvic colon, as it does in about 25 per cent, of cases, it may be recognized on rectal examination as a soft, conical mass with a central slit-like depression resembling the OS uteri, and the examining finger may be stained with bloody mucus like red-currant jelly. The sphincters are usually relaxed, but may be in a state of spasm. The intussusception seldom pro- trudes from the anus in acute cases. As time goes on, the intervals between the attacks of colic are shorter, the pain becomes continuous, with occasional exacerbations, and the tenesmus is constant. The child becomes exhausted, the facial appearance alters, dark rings appear round the eyes, and the abdomen becomes distended. If infection of the peritoneum takes place, the abdomen is tender and rigid, and other signs of peritonitis develop. Differential diagnosis.—The only condition that may be mistaken for intussusception in infants is acute colitis, which is comparatively common at this age. The more gradual onset of the illness and the presence of bile in the matter passed from the rectum suggest a diagnosis of colitis ; in intussusception the onset is sudden and the obstruction of the bowel prevents bile reaching the rectum. Treatment.—Statistics show that every hour of delay in