THE VULVA 990 sinus leading to the cyst wall is commonly formed. In any case there is a great tendency to repeated recurrence. Boric-acid fomentations should be applied, and the abscess opened and drained. If a cyst is present an attempt should be made to remove the wall, otherwise a sinus will remain. VULVAL CYSTS BARTHOLINIAN CYST A cyst is frequently formed in the duct of Bartholin's gland. The cause is unknown. It presents as an oval swelling bulging inwardly into the introit and outwardly under the lower end of the labia. It is always unilocular, and contains a clear mucus, unless inflamed, when the contents may be brownish and thick or frank muco-pus. Complaint is made of discomfort and the presence of a swelling ; if inflammation occurs, pain is severe. The cyst should be excised whole, through an incision over its inner surface. Where suppuration has occurred, this dissection may be impossible. As much as possible of the cyst wall should then be removed and the cavity packed lightly with gauze and allowed to granulate. LABIAL CYSTS In the labia majora sebaceous cysts are not uncommon. A cyst of the vestigial " canal of Nuck " {hydrocele of the canal of Nuck) is some- times seen as an elongated swelling extending downwards from the external inguinal ring, and may be mistaken for an inguinal hernia and especially for a hydrocele of a hernial sac. In the labia minora sebaceous cysts are also common. Occasionally thin-walled peduncu- lated cysts are met with containing a clear fluid. They probably repre- sent distended odoriferous (Tyson's) glands. The cysts, of whatever nature, should be excised. A hydrocele of the canal of Nuck may communicate with the peritoneal cavity, and may be difficult to dis- tinguish from a hernial sac ; therefore its interior and contents should always be examined before excision. URETHRAL CYSTS Skene's tubules, or the numerous crypts opening through the posterior urethral wall, may occasionally be the origin of cysts. They present as a rounded fluctuating swelling that bulges into the vagina. They resemble a urethrocele, but a sound inverted into the urethra does not pass into the swelling. They may contain pus. If they give rise to trouble they should be dissected out. OTHER INNOCENT GROWTHS Venereal warts have already been considered (p. 987). Solitary non- venereal papillomas and soft fibromas, often pedunculated, are occasionally