CICATRICIAL STRICTURE 523 narrowing of the tube. Similarly, the cicatrix produced after closing a perforation of the gut by a purse-string or Lembert suture, or that resulting after resection or lateral anastomosis, may undergo such contraction as to lead to stenosis. This appears to be more common when mechanical means, such as a Murphy's button or a bone-bobbin, have been employed. The symptoms of stenosis usually ensue from one to four months after the accident, but I had one case in which more than a year elapsed before acute obstruction followed the invagination of a number of punctures of the small intestine produced by an iron spike. The affected segment of bowel has usually formed adhesions with the omentum, the parietal peritoneum, or adjacent coils of intestine, which favour the occurrence of kinking or bending, and so increase the liability to obstruction. Stricture after strangulated hernia.—This is a comparatively rare sequel of strangulated hernia, and it almost always affects the small intestine. It may follow reduction by taxis or by operation. The stricture forms at the site of the constriction groove ; sometimes there is narrowing at each end of the strangulated loop. As a rule, it is annular and so limited as to give the appearance of a string tied round the bowel ; occasionally an inch or more of the bowel is stenosed. In a case of strangulated obturator hernia operated on by me, in which the constriction groove was invaginated by a double Lembert suture, a diaphragm formed which in the course of four months had completely occluded the bowel (Fig. 426). Perforation occurred above this diaphragm. Kecovery followed resection of the affected segment with lateral anastomosis. Clinical features of cicatricial stricture.—The symp- toms arc those common to all forms of increasing stenosis of the l)owel (p. 471). The history of a previous injury or operation, of a strangulated hernia reduced by taxis or otherwise, or of tuberculous disease of the bowel suggests this possibility. In the small intestine and upper colon, where the contents of the bowel are normally liquid, a very considerable degree of narrowing may be present before signs of obstruction manifest themselves, while in the lower colon, where the contents are solid, a moderate degree of stenosis will cause symptoms. Marked variability in the severity of the symptoms, due to periodic attacks of congestion or spasm, is suggestive of cicatricial stenosis. It is often impossible to arrive at an accurate diagnosis until the abdomen is opened. Treatment.—Before the onset of acute obstruction, the ideal metliod of treatment is resection of the affected loop of bowel,