(ESOPHAGEAL DIVERTICULA 263 Examination of the neck may reveal a swelling on the left side, below the cricoid cartilage, but this sign is often absent. It is said to be present in one-third of the cases reported. If a bougie be passed it generally enters the j^ouch, and, if made of metal, its point may be felt in the posterior triangle of the neck. The simultaneous passage of two bougies, one of which enters the pouch and the other the stomach, is sometimes possible. The presence of a pouch has in several cases been clearly illustrated by X-ray examination after the administration of a bismuth meal. A pouch filled with this throws a dense shadow on the screen and clearly demonstrates its outline. The double opening should be easily seen by the use of the ceso- phagoscope. Mayo refers to a method of diagnosis employed by Plummer. A silk thread is swallowed in sufficient quantities to pass through the stomach into the intestine. A bulbous-ended oesophagus probe is threaded on the silk and passed down. When it can be passed no farther, the string is tightened. If a diverticulum be present, the bulbous end is pulled upwards to the mouth of the diverticulum. If a stricture only be present, the position of the probe is not altered. 2. Traction Diverticula These are of less surgical importance, as they generally remain of small size and may not give rise to any symptoms. They usually occur in the middle and lower portion of the oesophagus. As their name implies, they are generally caused by traction on the oesophagus wall (Rokitansky). This may be due to inflammation of glands or to fibrous contraction following inflammation in the peri-oesophageal tissues. The structure of the wall of the pouch is similar to that of a pressure diverticulum. The diverticulum is horizontal, or the opening may be on a lower level than the pouch itself : hence food rarely tends to collect, and results of pressure do not occur. The pouches are situated on the anterior wall of the oesophagus, just below the bifurcation of the trachea (Fig. 349). The chief danger associated with traction diverticula is the pos- sibility of perforation of their wall by foreign bodies, leading to haemorrhage or mediastinal infection. Fistulous communication with the air-passages has also been noted. 3. Traction-Pressure Diverticula These are formed as the result of the passage of food into traction diverticula. They are rarely encountered, for the reasons given above.