781 POLYURIA—ANURIA ciently to permit the introduction of a short wide speculum. The patient is then placed in the knee-chest position, so that the bladder becomes distended by atmospheric pressure. Any fluid which remains in the bladder is mopped up with pledgets of wool. Light is projected into the bladder either from an electric head-lamp or reflected from a forehead mirror. The manipulation is made directly through the open tube. Exploration of the kidney.—Exploration of the kidney by operation may be necessary in the following cases: (1) To diagnose abdo- minal tumours of doubtful nature. Laparatomy will be the best method. (2) To ascertain the nature of disease already localized to the kidney. An oblique lumbar incision and extraperitoneal examination of the kidney is advisable for tliis piu-pose. (3) To ascertain the extent and connexions of the tumour and the condition of the lymphatics in a large malignant growth of the kidney. Either a lumbar extraperitoneal examination of the kidney combined with an exploration tlirough an opening in the peri- toneum in front of the colon, or a laimrotomy alone, may be used. (4) To ascertain the presence and condition of the second kidney when one is diseased and neplirectomy is proposed. For this purpose cystoscopy and ureteral catheterization have I'eplaced nephrotomy, which is only required in the rarest cases, when these methods are rendered impossible by cystitis. Access is obtained through a lumbar incision, and the kidney is examined extraperitoneally by inspection, palpation, and incision, and, if necessary, a slip of the kidney substance is removed and examined microscopically. The abdominal route only permits of palpation, and has proved worthless. POLYURIA Continuous polyuria (80 to 100 ounces in twenty-four hours) is observed in those forms of chronic interstitial nephritis which result from urinary obstruction or from other conditions, such as calculus and tuberculosis, that cause gradual destruction of renal tissue. The total quantity of urea and other urinary solids is much diminished. Nervous polyuria may be transient or may continue for some weeks or months ; it is accompanied by indefinite abdominal pain and frequent micturition. The renal function is not impaired in nervous polyuria. OLIGURIA AND ANURIA Oliguria is a diminished secretion of urine, anuria a total cessation of the secretion. The types of oliguria and anuria may be classified thus:— 1. Hysterical anuria. 2. Anuria due to changes in the general blood pressure. 3. Reflex anuria: (i) Urethra. (ii) Bladder. (iii) Ureter. (iv) Kidney. 4. Infective anuria: (i) Hsematogenous ' . , I (o) bacterial. (ii) Ascending urinary. 5. Urinary-tension anuria: (i) Obstruction ' gradually increasing. ^ ' I (o) sudden. (ii) Sudden relief of hvi^ertension.