SALIVARY FISTUL.^; : TREATMENT ^37 be done every alternate day, and a fairly firm bandage applied. Kiittner states that the actual cautery is more efficacious. If these measures fail after a reasonably long trial, the whole fistulous track should be excised, and the edges brought togetlier with deep sutures which include all the exposed tissue ; in other words, after ex- cision of the track, the resulting wound must be treated in the same way as a primary wound of the gland. Care must, of course, be taken not to cut any branches of the facial nerve during the operation. 2. Duct fistulae.—The cure of a duct fistula is a much more tedious and difhcult business. The variety of procedures which liave been advocated from time to time, and the ingenuity which has been expended in devising them, furnish evidence that there is no royal road to success. Tlie several methods which have been described come mider two main headings—(a) those in which an attempt is made to restore the natural aqueduct, and (b) those in which an attempt is made to convert an external into an internal fistula. If their respective merits are regarded from an academic point of view, there can be no doubt that the former is preferable, since it aims at restoring a natural state of affairs ; but, practically, the chances of success by this method are .so small, that I am of opinion that the second is the method of choice for the treatment of duct fistulse. Armstrong of Montreal gives a clear account of the method of Nicoladoni, who is the chief exponent of the first method. He writes : " Nicoladoni has successfully joined the ends of the divided duct after removing the scar tissue. When there is a considerable gap, he incises the cheek, picks up the proximal end of the periplieral portion, and frees it from the buccinator up to the caruncle ; tlien, by making a crescentic incision through the buccal mucosa in front of the caruncle, he is able to displace the duct orifice as much as 1'5 cm. towards the ■gland, and so approximate the ends of the divided duct that he can unite them through an external incision."' It is obvious that this method is ideal if it can succeed. But, since it rarely does so even in a primary wound of the duct, how much less is the chance of its doing so in an old-standing injury, when the ends have become widely separated and the peripheral portion of tlie duct has usually ceased to be permeable ! The simplest method of converting an external into an internal .fistula is that described and employed by Deguise in France and Pearce Gould in this country. It consists in passing a strong suture (either silk or silver wire) from the fistula through the buccal mucous membrane in two places, one 0'5 cm. behind the other (Fig. 342). The ends which now protrude in the mouth are tied very tightly. The tissue enclosed necroses, and thus an internal opening is formed. The external