985 THE VULVA INFLAMMATION STREPTOCOCCAL AND PNEUMOCOCCAL VULVITIS Infection with the streptococcus or pneumococcus may be primary after wounds, surgical operations and labour; occasionally it is a secondary infection added to previous lesions, notably soft chancres and syphilis. When primary, the type is usually erysipelatous with much brawny swelling, but it may be gangrenous, especially in debilitated children [noma vulval). In secondarily infected venereal sores the inflammation may be most destructive, and terminate in wholesale sloughing of the external genitals {phagedcenic vulvitis). Treatment.—Antiseptic fomentations should be applied, stitches removed from operation wounds, and constitutional symptoms met by the injection of an appropriate antitoxic serum, or vaccine. In the rare form of phagedsenic inflammation the necrotic tissue should be scraped away with a sharp spoon and the parts well swabbed over with pure carbolic acid. STAPHYLOCOCCAL VULVITIS (SIMPLE VULVITIS) Simple vulvitis may occur after any wound of the vulva, or may be due to the irritation of scratching [fruritus vuIvcb), diabetic urine, ichorous vaginal discharge, rough diapers or masturbation. The surface is red, sore, and excoriated. In many cases it is associated with vaginitis, as in the vulvo-vaginitis of little children. Antiseptic fomentations and lotions are usually sufficient, combined with the removal of any discoverable cause. In young children vulvitis cannot be cured until the vaginitis is well. These cases are of medico- legal importance, and the pus should be carefully examined for evidence of venereal infection. (See Vaginitis, p. 996.) GONOCOCCAL VULVITIS Acute gonorrhoea in the female consists of a coincident inflammation of the vaginal cervix, vagina and vulva {cervico-vagino-vulvitis). Tlie subject is discussed in Vol. I., pp. 832-34. Owing to the resistant nature of the vulval tissues the inflammation may have entirely subsided in them wliile still active in the vagina and cervix. OTHER VENEREAL AFFECTIONS OF THE VULVA The typical hard chancre is rarely met with on the vulva. Instead, the sores are multiple, ulcerative, or sometimes warty. With these is associated much swelling of the labia minora due to lymphangitis, which often hinders a satisfactory view of the parts. Inspection alone will generally fail to determine whether the lesion is syphilitic or merely chancroidal, especially as the two conditions may coincide. In either case the venereal element may be much accentuated by secondary