853 RETENTION OF URINE: TREATMENT elongated, and may require deep insertion of a metal prostatic catheter with a large curve and a long beak ; a gum-elastic catheter bent into a full curve or into some other shape may be successful when other catheters have failed. These methods failing, suprapubic pimcture will bo necessary [see below). The vesical or renal hsemorrhage, or the suppression that may follow sudden emptying of an over-distended bladder, are avoided b}' Iceeping the patient warm in bed, and by drawing oii only 10 or 15 oz. at intervals of half an hour until the bladder is empty. Another method is to tie in a catheter of very fine calibre and allow the urine to dribble slowly away. When the bladder is empty a few syringe- fuls of silver nitrate solution (1 in 10,000) should be injected and allowed to escape, and the catheter tied in. Stimulants and a mixture containing urotropine, strychnine, citrate of potash, and infusion of buchu should be given. After several days of continuous bladder drainage the decision will have to be made as to whether " catheter life " is to be com- menced or an operation performed. 6. Retention with stricture.—A hot sitz-bath and rectal injections, followed by a suppository of morphia (J gr.), should be tried. This fail- ing, a catheter should be passed, preceded by a No. 7 or 8 French bougie if necessary. When a filiform bougie only will pass, it should be tied in place. After half an hour the urine begins to trickle along- side the bougie ; a few hours later a larger instrument, and eventu- ally a catheter, can be introduced. A more rapid method is to use a metal catheter with a conical end which screws on to a filiform bougie. The bougie acts as a guide, and the catheter is forced through the stricture. Harrison's whip bougies are useful, especially if laterally grooved to facilitate escape of urine. There is less danger of completely emptying a distended bladder in a case of stricture than in enlarged prostate. If instruments fail, the bladder must be emptied by suprapubic puncture an inch above the upper margin of the pubic symphysis in the middle line. The skin is incised, and then the aspirating needle introduced. There is little risk of injuring the peritoneum when the bladder is distended and the percussion note dull. The aspirating needle should not be large, lest leakage at the point of pimcture of the bladder take place. There is a danger of prevesical abscess if the urine is septic. Usually after a single aspiration an instrument can be introduced through the stricture and tied in, but in rare instances the puncture must be repeated. Operation for the relief of the stricture should be performed as soon as possible.