568 THE PERITONEUM be subnormal from the shock of a perforation or strangulation ; on the other hand, it is often raised at first, and sometimes the onset is marked by a rigor. As the peritonitis spreads, the temperature falls to and below the normal. The pulse-rate is of much greater importance. Rapid at the onset, it may become slowed as the initial shock passes ofi, only to rise again steadily and progressively with the spread of the peritonitis. At the same time it becomes feeble and " thready." One of the most reliable indications of a spreading peritonitis is the coexistence of a rising pulse-rate and a faUing temperature. The fades is important. The patient quickly assumes a charac- teristic appearance, the face being pale, drawn, and anxious-looking, whilst dark rings appear round the sunken eyes. The mental condition is clear, and in fatal cases the patient is only too conscious of his con- dition until the end. Examination of the abdomen by inspection, palpation, and per- cussion should be thoroughly and systematically carried out. The abdomen is rigid and often extremely tender, and the abdominal respira- tonj movements are diminished. In the early stages this rigidity and the diminution of respiratory movements may be so localized as to afEord valuable e-vidence as to the situation of the starting-point of the peri- tonitis. Later, the whole abdomen becomes rigid and motionless. As the disease progresses, the abdomen, which may at first have been flat, or even sunken, becomes progressively distended from intestinal paralysis, and the distension may become so great as seriously to interfere with respiration. The presence of free fluid may sometimes be ascertained by the somewhat fallacious sign of shifting dullness in the flanks. In peritonitis from intestinal perforation there may, in addition, be evidence of free gas in the peritoneal cavity. This is shown by diminution or absence of the normal area of liver dullness, especially when it occurs in a flat abdomen. Intestinal distension may simulate this sign very closely. In old persons many of the above-mentioned symptoms may be absent. The abdomen is sometimes observed to be both soft and mobile, even in the presence of an acute spreading peritonitis. Simi- larl}'^, both rigidity and immobility are often absent in postoperative peritonitis. Nearly all these symptoms and signs may be modified or abolished by the administration of opium. A patient under its influence may look comparatively well, vomiting may be absent, the pulse may be only slightly accelerated, the abdomen may be soft and moving with respiration, and examination may not be resented. Diagnosis.—Acute peritonitis has to be diagnosed from intes-