OPERATIONS FOR IMPERFECT DESCENT 927 the scrotum without tension, whilst attempts to increase the length of the spermatic cord by division of structures and inversion of the testis usually lead to atrophy of the organ. The operation of orchido- pexy is therefore only indicated in exceptional cases. Complete atrophy and re-ascent of the testis are common, and the results of the operation are usually disappointing. The steps of the operation are as follows: An incision is made over the external abdominal ring, as in Bassini's operation for inguinal hernia, and the external oblique aponeurosis divided and opened. The processus vaginalis testis is then identified and opened, and the testis exposed. The peritoneal process is divided above the testis, and the upper end carefully separated from the structures of the spermatic cord and ligatured as in a hernia operation. The testis and spermatic cord are then lifted from their bed, pulled downwards, and all bands of fascia carefully divided mitil the cord is so long that the testis will lie on the thigh, three or four inches below Poupart's ligament. If this lengthening cannot be obtained by division of the fascia only, the spermatic vessels must be divided, and the testis left attached merely by the vas and artery of the vas. The forefinger is then passed into the scrotum, and a pocket for the testis made there. Into this pocket the testis is placed, and held in position by a purse-string suture passed through the tissues above it. The conjoined tendon of the internal oblique and trans- versalis is then sutured to Poupart's ligament above the vas, and the other layers of the abdominal wall closed as in a radical cure of hernia. (b) Removal of the testis.—This is the operation usually per- formed for imperfect descent on one side, especially if the case is complicated by hernia or torsion; but when these complica- tions do not exist, little harm is likely to result from waiting for the onset of puberty, on the off-chance of descent occurring at that time. (c) Returning the testis to the abdomen.—This can be done when both testes are imperfectly descended, so that the internal secre- tion may not be lost; but it must be remembered that torsion and malignant disease are more apt to occur in these organs, and that the extension of any inflammation from the urethra is more dangerous in an abdominal than in a scrotal testis. The hernia which so frequently complicates imperfect descent of the testis shoiild always be treated by radical cure ; trusses designed to allow the descent of the testis whilst retaining the hernia are useless. When the radical cure is performed the testis should be removed, to permit more complete and more secure closure of the inguinal canal. If the condition is bilateral, one or both testes should be returned. to the abdomen.