I054 THE FALLOPIAN TUBE pelvis, for undue delay allows the formation of strong adhesions, and increases the likelihood of ovarian disorganization. Where the tube alone is affected, salpingectomy is generally the operation of choice. It consists in dissecting the tube off the meso- salpinx and dividing it at the uterine cornu ; or if it be desired to remove the entire structure, a wedge-shaped portion of the cornu containing its interstitial segment is excised and the gap closed by sutures. In some cases the ovary is disorganized, contains collections of pus, or is conjoined to the tube in a tubo-ovarian abscess ; then the removal of the whole appendage is required {salpingo-oopJiorectomy). The tube and ovary having been separated from the surrounding adhesions, the ovarico-pelvic ligament is clamped and divided, and, the inner attachments of the appendage being ligatured in halves, the tube and ovary are removed. The ovarico-pelvic ligament is then ligatured, and all oozing stopped. Where acute metritis coexists with an acute double pyosalpinx it is sometimes advisable to remove the whole uterus as well, especially if both ovaries have had to be excised, for the uterus is useless after the removal of both appendages, and if conserved may be the source of discharge and pain. After all operations for acute salpingitis, it is advisable to drain the pelvis for a day or two. Chronic salpingitis.—The treatment of chronic salpingitis varies with the presumed condition of the tube. A pyosalpinx must, of course, be removed ; and the same course must be adopted for any considerable inflammatory enlargement of the appendage, whether the presence of pus be diagnosed or not. A hydrosalpinx should be similarly treated. Fibrotic salpingitis of old standing, and forming but a little mass, need not be interfered with unless it gives rise to sufficient pain and disability to justify the operation. The ideal operation for chronic salpingitis is salpingostomy, which consists in freeing the tube from its adhesions, fashioning a new abdo- minal ostium by slitting, evacuating the contents, and stitching back the edges of the opening so as to evert the mucous membrane. Unfor- tunately, this can only be done where the disease is slight and the tube wall relatively healthy, as in many cases of hydrosalpinx. In all cases of pyosalpinx, and in others where the conservation of the tube is either impossible or, on account of the patient's age, useless, salpingectomy or salpingo-oophorectomy must be performed. The former should always be preferred if the ovary be reasonably healthy. In some cases of double pyosalpinx with extensive dense matting of the pelvic organs, removal of the tubes is facilitated by performing