885 URETHRAL FEVER 103° F. or 104° F., and falls in a few hours. A second rigor occurs with another rise of temperature, and the rigors are repeated at irregular intervals. Venous thrombosis, pneumonia, or other complications eventually supervene, and the patient dies after several weeks. 2. Urethral fever with suppression of urine.—(a) There is a rigor a few hours after internal uretlu'otomy, and the temperature rises to 104° F., or even higher. A few ounces of bloody urine are passed, and the secretion becomes completely suppressed. The patient is restless and wanders. He becomes rapidly comatose, and dies within eighteen to thirty-six hours of the operation. (&) After the passage of a catheter in a case of enlarged prostate there is a rise of temperature, and the tongue is dry and glazed. The patient is drowsy and heavy, and wanders at night. The temperature remains high ; buccal dysphagia, hiccup, and vomiting follow; the quantity of urine diminishes and complete suppression supervenes, and death results in a considerable proportion of cases. Treatment.—Prophylactic treatment consists in the sterilization of all urethral instruments, washing the bladder and urethra with nitrate of silver when the urine is already septic, and the administration of urinary antiseptics and diuretics before and after instrumentation. When infection has occurred a smart purge is administered, diuretics such as Contrexeville water or barley-water are freely given, and urinary antiseptics administered. If the infection is due to the Bacillus coli, large doses of alkalis should be given. A catheter is tied in the urethra, and in some cases suprapubic drainage is installed. Vaccine and serum treatment may be tried. The treatment of sujipression of urine is discussed elsewhere (p. 783). CONGENITAL MALFORMATIONS Congenital Absence or Obliteration of the Urethra This is rare. The penis is absent or rudimentary, and other malformations are present. The bladder may communicate with the rectum, uterus, or umbilicus. The children are usually still-born or die soon after birth. Partial Obliteration of the Urethra This may be found in the glans, in the bulbous, membranous, or prostatic urethra. The anterior urethra is most commonly and the prostatic urethra least often affected. If no outlet is present, there is distension of the bladder with dilatation of the ureters and kidneys. The kidneys may be the seat of congenital malformation and be inactive, so that distension of the urinary passages does not take place. The urine may find an outlet through a patent urachus, a vesico-rectal fistula, a vesico-utero-rectal fistula, a penile or vaginal fistula. In the majority of cases the child is still-born or dies soon after birth. If life is prolonged, fatal ascending infection occurs after a few years. Treatment.—Suprapubic puncture and cystotomy are emergency operations to relieve distension. In atresia of the glans uretlirpe the dilated urethra should be opened and a penile fistula established, a plastic operation being carried out later on the urethra. Double Urethra This is rave, and may be combined with doub'e penis; double scrotum; double bladdsr, atresia ani, and other congenital malformations.