575 PERITONITIS may arise as to whether there is also pus beneath the diaphragm ; the operator would then be content to drain the empyema and to await events. Prognosis.—Rare instances have occurred of spontaneous ter- mination either by absorption or evacuation of the pus. With such reported exceptions the condition, if unrelieved by operation, ter- minates fatally, sometimes after a very prolonged period of illness. Extension or rupture of the abscess may take place into the pleural cavity, the pericardium, the bronchi, or the general peritoneal cavity, and the patient dies from these complications or from prolonged sup- puration and septic poisoning. Early operation, on the other hand, offers a fairly good prospect of recovery, and the mortality of such cases may be placed at between 30 and 40 per cent. There is a tendency to the formation of fresh loculi of pus even after the primary collection has been evacuated, and in the event of the temperature not subsiding, fresh efforts should be made to find such collections. C. CHRONIC FORAIS OF PERITONITIS 1. Chronic Septic Peritonitis Locahzed intraperitoneal abscess has already been considered (p. 572). A form of peritonitis intermediate between these cases and those of acute diffuse peritonitis can sometimes be recognized, coming on after the subsidence of an acute diffuse peritonitis, and characterized chnically by irregular fever, diarrhoea, and progressive emaciation ; from time to time collections of pus large enough to be recognized and opened make their appearance. Post mortem there is a general matting together of the abdominal contents, in the midst of which are found loculi of pus of various sizes, Avhich often communicate with one another by narrow fistulous tracks, and an extreme thicken- ing of the peritoneum from fibrinous deposit more or less organized (Plate 98, Fig. 2). In such cases the pyogenetic staphylococci, the colon bacillus, and the Bacillus fyocyaneus have been found. 2. Chronic Gonococcal Peritonitis The gonococcus, whilst only an occasional cause of acute diffuse peritonitis, frequently produces a chronic form of peritonitis which, from its almost invariable starting-point in the Fallopian tubes, chiefly concerns the pelvic peritoneum. The resulting peritonitis is slow and insidious in its course, produces few or no symptoms apart from those of the initial lesions, and leads to the formation of adhesions which may mat together the pelvic viscera and may cause intestinal obstruction.