694 RECTUM AND ANAL CANAL Catarrhal Proctitis Acute catarrhal proctitis may be caused by injury, by the irritation of scybalous masses, violent purgatives, or thread-worms, or it may be a part of a generalized colitis. The symptoms are rectal tenesmus and the passage of muco-pus tinged with blood. The mucosa is very swollen and vascular. The frequent straining at defsecation renders the swollen mucosa liable to prolapse. Reflex urinary symptoms are frequently present. The course and terminations are various. Some cases resolve in a few days, others become chronic, and occasionally ulceration follows. Chronic catarrhal proctitis is usually a sequel of the acute form, and the symptoms are similar but modified in degree. The rectal mucosa is swollen, pale and cedematous, and covered with tenacious muco-pus. Cell proliferation in the submucous tissue leads to con- siderable tliickening of the rectal wall. Superficial ulceration may be present. Treatment.—In the acute form, rest in bed, a diet which leaves the least residue, and regulation of the bowels with mild aperients are essential. Occasional hot hip-baths give relief. When the disease has become chronic similar treatment is necessary, and the rectum should be irrigated with some astringent lotion through a double- channelled catheter, or, better, a direct application of silver nitrate or iodine should be made to the diseased mucosa. Diffuse Septic and Gangrenous Proctitis This is, nowadays, a very rare condition. Formerly it was seen after operations upon the rectum, and was apparently infectious. The infective process involved the rectum and the perirectal tissues, and was not infrequently fatal. If recovery took place, it only did so after prolonged suppuration and sloughing, leaving the tissues per- manently damaged, e.g. by strictures of the bowel and destruction of the sphincter muscles. Proctitis due to Specific Organisms Gonorrhoea! proctitis is rare. It occurs more frequently in the female by direct infection from the vagina ; in the male it results from unnatural coitus. The symptoms are those of catarrhal proctitis. The diagnosis is founded upon the bacteriological examination. The treatment is similar in the acute stage to that of catarrhal proctitis. When the disease has become chronic, douches of protargol, chinosol, or some mercurial lotion should be employed, or a direct application of one of these substances should be made to the diseased mucosa. Diphtheria very rarely attacks the rectum and anal canal. Occasionally it has been seen in association with the disease in the