THE KIDNEY 832 chronic interstitial nephritis is the usual form of the disease. This condition is usually bilateral, but one kidney or a part of a kidney may be affected. Treatment.—The diet and general management of these cases differ in no way from those of other forms of nephritis. Mercury should be given in small doses and with caution, and in tertiary lesions it should be comlDined with iodides. BILHARZIOSIS OF THE KIDNEY AND URETER Bilharzial lesions of the kidney are very rare. Ova have been found in the renal pelvis and parenchyma in cases of advanced pyelonephritis and interstitial nephritis, and in subcapsular cysts; they may form calculous nuclei. In the pelvis there are haemorrhages and ulceration. The mucous membrane of the pelvis is covered with prominent grey-yellow plaques formed by blood pigment, uric-acid crystals, and ova. The lower end of the ureter is most frequently affected, but the whole duct may be involved. The lumen may be contracted and obliterated, and dilatation of the ureter and hydronephrosis results. ACTINOMYCOSIS OF THE KIDNEY Renal actinomycosis presents the general characteristics of the disease (see Vol. I., pp. 873-9). RENAL CALCULUS Stones formed in tlie kidney may remain lodged in a calyx or in the pelvis, or they may pass down the ureter and either become arrested in the duct or pass into the bladder. Etiology.—A urinary calculus is an agglomeration of crystals held together by a cement substance. The crystalline element is produced by the precipitation of certain salts as a result of their excess, or of changes in reaction, or as a consequence of bacterial action. In this way crystalline forms of phosphates, oxalate of lime, and uric acid are deposited in the urine. In infants, masses composed of urates and uric acid are frequently found in the convoluted tubules soon after birth. These disappear when the flow of urine is fully established, but may remain to form the nucleus of a true calculus. The presence of a colloid cement substance is the second essential factor. The colloid bodies of the normal urine (mucin, urochrome) are " reversible "—that is, they may be dissolved again—and therefore they do not form a calculus even when crystals are deposited from the urine. An " irreversible " colloid—that is, one which is insoluble when once precipitated (e.g. fibrin)—is necessary. The average age at which renal calculi occur is 38 years (Watson). Operations for renal calculus are rarely necessary in children under 10. Men are more frequently affected than women ; the kidneys are equally affected. In the early stage the disease is unilateral, but later it is bilateral in over 50 per cent, of cases. Heredity, sedentary habits, certain foods, and hard drinking-water