239 SIALO-ADENITIS None of the metliods of dealing with a salivary fistula described can be regarded as infallible ; and if, after a patient trial, a cure is not effected, the question of arresting the salivary secretion altogether must be considered. Two methods of doing this have been described. Bramann has ligatured the duct on the proximal side of the fistula in three cases, and in two of them the result was satisfactory. But he allows that a certain amount of risk is attached to it; for instance, the gland may become swollen from retention of its products, and abscess-formation may develop secondarily. The other alternative is to dissect out as much of the gland as possible, taking care not to damage the facial nerve. This will necessarily lead to some disfigure- ment, but that is preferable to the distressing phenomena associated with a persistent salivary fistula. DISEASES OF THE SALIVARY GLANDS INFLAMMATION Etiology.—The etiology of sialo-adenitis is still a vexed question. It used to be held that the salivary glands were liable to infection apart from any exciting or predisposing condition ; but recent re- searches have modified our ideas upon the matter. It is now agreed that there are few, if any, inflammatory conditions of the salivary glands which are not primarily due to an ascending infection from the mouth along the duct. The etiology of sialo-adenitis as it is understood to-day may be compared with that of appendicitis. The appendix is normally inhabited by the Bacillus coli commmiis. If stagnation occurs in it as the result of kinldng, or the presence of a stercoUth, its, resistance to infection is diminished, and the bacillus at once becomes a toxic instead of a benign organism, and acute appendicitis is the direct outcome. In the same way the mouth is normally in- habited by a number of mixed micro-organisms. As long as the salivary glands function adequately, these organisms are inert; but if there is any diminution of the salivary activity, as occurs in pyrexia or after laparotomy (Pawlow has experimentally proved that tliis is a constant plienomenon in dogs), an ascending infection along the ducts immediately follows. Ginner has tabulated the results of bacteriological examination in 52 cases of suppurative parotitis, as follows :— Staphylococcus aureus. . 28 Pneumobacillus . . . 1 Staphylococcus albus . . 2 Micrococcus tetragenus . . 2 Pneumococcus . . .11 Bacillus typhosus . . .2 Streptococcus ... 5 Elongated bacillus (unclassitiable) 1