791 MOVABLE KIDNEY The ureter may be congenitally misplaced and open into the male pros- tatic urethra or seminal vesicle, into the female urethra or vagina, or into the rectum. The misplaced ureter is usually a supernumerary one, and the ureteric orifice is narrowed and sometimes ends blindly in the form of a cyst in some part of the bladder wall. In the female subject, incontinence of urine while the patient could pass a quantity of water voluntarily has been noted when a ureter opened into the urethra. The ureter should be trans- planted into the bladder in such cases. Congenital narrowing of the ureter leads to hydronephrosis or to atrophy of the kidney. MOVABLE AND FLOATING KIDNEY The normal respiratory excursion of the kidney varies from i to U in. Pathological anatomy,—A floating kidney is entirely sur- rounded by peritoneum, which also clothes its pedicle and forms a mesonephros. It is a very rare congenital malformation, and cannot be diagnosed from a movable kidney without operation ; an intra- peritoneal operation is required for its relief. A movable kidney moves within the thickened perirenal fascia behind the peritoneum. The delicate perirenal fat is diminished or entirely absent, and the fibrous threads connecting the fibrous capsule of the kidney with the perirenal fascia are thickened. Milky patches of thickening are frequently observed on the fibrous capsule. The renal vessels are elongated, the artery more so than the vein. The suprarenal body does not move witii the kidney. Tlie attachments of the kidney to the duodenum and the ascending colon on the right side and to the pancreas and the descending colon on the left are usually separated. Thick bands of adhesions between the kidney and colon may, however, be found. The kidney occasionally becomes adherent in an abnormal position such as the iliac fossa. Torsion of the vascular pedicle may occur even when the excursion of the kidney is moderate. The renal vein is obstructed, and the organ becomes engorged with blood, enlarged, and dark purple with subcapsular haemorrhages. Kinking or twisting of the ureter may be caused by swinging of the kidney, or by its rotation on its transverse axis and twisting of the ureter over the renal vessels. The pelvis becomes distended with urine. Repetition of such attacks induces hollowing of the kidney and intermittent hydronephrosis. Undue mobility of the kidney may exist alone or may be merely part of a general visceroptosis. The stomach is frequently dilated. Movable kidney may be the seat of interstitial nephritis, stone, tuber- culosis, or new growth. Etiology.—The average age is 33i years (McWilliams). Movable kidney occurs in from 5 to 10 per cent, of women and from i to 1 per