797 INJURIES gress of the septic process the better the iDrognosis. Prognosis is chiefly affected by hajmorrhage and by injury to other organs. Recovery takes place in 70 per cent, of uncompHcated cases. Treatment.—Shght and moderately severe uncomplicated ruptures are treated by efficient strapping of the side and a covering broad bandage, by ice-bags over and under the loin, and by absolute rest in the recumbent position. The food should be fluid. Calcium lactate is given in doses of 10-15 gr. every four hours, for forty-eight hours, and morjihia administered hypodermically. Sliock, if not profound, should not be too energetically treated, lest bleeding be encouraged. If there is retention the bladder should be emptied under the most rigid aseptic precautions. An evacuat- ing cannula and bulb may be used to empty the bladder of clot; but if this measure is not quickly successful the bladder should be opened suprapubically, the clots cleared out, and a large drain inserted. Operation on the kidney may be required for—(1) immediate severe haemorrhage, (2) delayed severe haemorrhage, (3) suppuration of the injured kidney, (4) septic peritonitis, (5) hydronephrosis or pyonephrosis. The kidney is exposed by an oblique lumbar incision, the clots are cleared away, and a search made for the bleeding-point. Tears of the kidney are closed with catgut sutures, and extensive laceration and bruising by packing with strips of gauze. A distended renal pelvis should be incised, the clots turned out, and the pelvis packed with gauze. Detached portions and shreds of kidney tissue are removed, and primary nephrectomy may be necessary. Rectal and intravenous infusion of glucose solution (1 per cent.) sliould be given after the ojieration. Suppuration should be treated by free incision and drainage, and lapar- otomy may be necessary for septic peritonitis. Persistent anuria is treated by nephrotomy and ftacking {see also p. 783). Results.—The results have greatly improved in recent years with early aseptic operations. Operative interference in septic complications should not be too long delayed. In uncomplicated cases the death-rate is 18'9 per cent. In cases treated expectantly the mortality is 21-1 per cent. : in conservative operations, 11-7 per cent. ; and in nephrectomy, 17'9 per cent. (Riese). 2. Injuries with External Wound Wounds of the kidney are much less frequent than subcutaneous injuries. The intestine, spleen, liver, or pleura may also be wounded. The blood escapes by the external wound, and, unless there is a long sinuous track, no accumulation takes place around the kidney. The kidney may j^rolapse from a large wound. Primary union is rare, prolonged suppuration common. Urinary fistulas occur, but seldom persist. Symptoms.—There is external hemorrhage, and urine escapes through the wound after a few days when the haemorrhage is subsiding. Hfemorrhage from stab wounds may be severe and rapidly fatal. In bullet wounds the external haemorrhage is seldom severe, but it may be intermittent. Pain is persistent, but does not radiate along the ureter. Occasionally, flatus from laceration of the intestine may be passed from the external wound. Septic complications occur on the fourth or fifth day, and portions of clothing and sloughs may be discharged. Prognosis.—This is comparatively good, and operation is frequently successful. Wounds of other organs increase the gravity of the prognosis. The mortality of incised wounds is as low as 15 per cent. (Albarran), but bullet wounds have a high mortality—53 per cent. (Kiister).