CHRONIC MASTITIS 19 If suppuration has already occurred the pus must be let out by incision. The value of vaccine treatment during the acute stage is doubtful. In cases where sinuses persist, usually as the result of inadequate surgical treatment, vaccine treatment appears to be of great value. The treatment should consist in the weekly injection of 400-800 millions of (S. aureus in stock vaccine, controlled, if the case does not rapidly yield, by cultivations which may show the presence of other organisms. In such cases an autogenous vaccine is prepared for use. CHRONIC MASTITIS In women who have reached or passed middle life the breasts, or portions of them, are very liable to undergo certain fibroid changes, associated either with hypertrophy or with atrophy of the secreting epithelium. The condition is known as chronic mastitis or chronic lobular mastitis. According to the condition of the epithelium, two forms may be recognized—hypertrophic mastitis and atrophic mastitis. Chronic mastitis is a frequent precursor of breast cancer [see p. 50), and owes its chief importance to this fact and to its clinical resem- blances to cancer. Etiology.—Chronic mastitis may occur at any age after puberty. It is not very rare in young unmarried women, and its frequency probably increases up to a maximum at the menopause, the age near which a large majority of the cases occur. Some authors state that it is more common among married women, but my own experience indicates a greater frequency in the unmarried. The onset of chronic mastitis is sometimes determined by a blow. Lenthal Cheatle has recently brought forward strong reasons to believe that the pressure of ill-fitting corsets, and more especially the impaling of the breast upon the upper end of a stay-bone, may induce local mastitis at the seat of pressure. Chronic mastitis is most frequently seen in the axillary tail, and in the portion of the breast immediately adjoining, but may occur in any part of the breast. It may be regarded as a morbid deviation in the normal physio- logical processes of evolution and involution wliich correspond with the sexual crises of a woman's life—puberty, menstruation, pregnancy, lactation, and the menopause. Apart from these physiological tides of tissue change, mild bacterial invasion and obstruction of the ducts may play a part, though Lenthal Cheatle's researches go to show that the disease is not dependent on bacterial infection. Naked-eye anatomy of chronic mastitis.—A breast the seat of marked chronic mastitis, when cut across, is tough and " iadiarubbery" in consistence, and has not the inelastic hardness