RECTAL CARCINOMA: TREATMENT 725 ■course, the whole peritoneum, for it sometimes happens that secondary nodules may be scattered over the peritoneum without clinical evidence of their presence). (4) That an inspection of the mesentery of the pelvic colon will generally enable the operator to determine whether it is sufficiently extensive to permit of the colon being brought to the anal margin if it is intended to adopt this method ; if this seems to be impossible, an iliac colostomy may be established, thus abolishing any possibility of having to terminate a perineal operation by the formation of a perineal anus. (5) That it is the only way in which the pelvic colon can be sufiiciently freed and its blood supply safely j^reserved in order that it may be brought to the anus if this method be thought desirable, for by ligating the superior hsemorrhoidal artery immediately above the origin of the lowest sigmoid artery, the arterial arch between the two vessels is preserved and the blood supply to the bowel is ensured. (6) That as gangrene of the transplanted bowel does not occur, as it not infrequently does in the perineal method of operating, convales- cence is much shortened and stricture is less liable to follow. (7) That a far wider severance and removal of perirectal tissues can be performed than by either of the perineal methods of operating. If it be proposed to perform the combined operation, it has still to be determined which is the better of the two methods to pursue. Time alone will decide whether the end-results of the more extensive removal of the tissues are a sufficient compensation for the loss of the normal anus. Theoretically, the former operation v/ould seem to offer the best results, but naturally there will be great aversion on the part of a patient to have to submit to any artificial anus when the other alternative seems possible. An iliac colostomy is preferable to any perineal anus. In the latter an infection of the mucosa frequently occurs from the surrounding wound. The escape of the discharges from the inflamed mucosa are very annoying. An artificial anus in the iliac region can be attended to by the patient himself, and a daily irrigation will render him com- paratively comfortable. Treatment of irremovable cancer. — Discovery of an irremovable rectal cancer does not always demand immediate perform- ance of colostomy. A few cases of rectal cancer will run their course without any necessity for the operation. There is little evidence to show that the rate of growth is delayed by diverting the 2:)assage of fgeces over it, but symptoms may be very much relieved. The indica- tions for a palliative colostomy are— Intestinal obstruction, acute or chronic. Hfemorrhage apparently caused by fteces passing over the growth. Pain caused by the presence of fseces in the bowel. The teasing diarrhoea.