OPERATION FOR GALL-STONES 759 out from the end of the duct. In any case, it is wise to insert a small tube down to the region of the divided and ligatured duct. The raw area on the liver may sometimes be covered with peritoneum reflected from the sides of the gall-bladder, but any oozing from it must be treated by gauze pacldng. // calculi are present in both gall-bladder and common duct, they can but rarely be pushed from the duct into the gall-bladder, and, therefore, this condition necessitates the opening of both. The duct should be opened first, the intact gall-bladder being a useful tractor. The calculi may be free in the duct or impacted in the lower end. Whenever possible, the calculi should be pushed into the supraduodenal portion of the duct, which can be safely opened and the stones removed. Direct drainage of the common duct is usually advisable. The stones are now removed from the gall-bladder, which may be afterwards closed if healthy, or may require to be sejaarately drained. Calculi impacted in the lower end of the duct may rarely be pushed on into the duodenum, or pushed back into the duct above, but, as a rule, the duct must either be opened behind the duodenum or by the transduodenal route (Fig. 529, a). When calculi are also present in the hepatic ducts they may be forced down into the common duct, or removed by direct incision, or broken up and extracted in fragments. If any doubt exist as to the complete removal of the fragments, not only must ample external drainage be provided, but a good-sized metal probe must be passed from the duct into the duodenum, so dilating the papilla that the fragments may pass. After-treatment.—If vomiting be troublesome, a pint of hot water should be drunk ; and if this fail, the stomach should be washed out. Even in the absence of vomiting, eructation of mouth- fuls, or hiccup with fullness and epigastric distress, demands gastric lavage, repeated if necessary ; for these symptoms may be premoni- tory of acute dilatation of the stomach, a very grave complication. The rectal injection of half-strength normal saline should be used in all but the simplest cases, for it combats any tendency to shock, relieves thirst, and, most important of all, greatly aids elimination. Results of operations.—The removal of gall-stones that have not left the gall-bladder or set up dangerous comj^lications should not cause a mortality of more than 2 per cent. ; and even taking all gall-stone operations together the death-rate is probably but 5 per cent. The percentage of recurrences in simple cases is small (not more than 2 or 3 per cent.), but it rises pari passu with increasing complica- tions. There is not yet sufficient evidence to show which type of operation is most successful. Cholecystostomy appears to have been attended by a large proportion of recurrences, but this operation has