THE PERITONEUM 570 This done, a drainage-tube of large calibre may be inserted down to the site of the lesion, either through the original wound or through some new opening—in the loin, for example—which may be considered more suitable for drainage. Gauze strips are sometimes used for this purpose, but they do not act well as drains, and their removal is attended by considerable pain. The " cigarette " drain, which consists of a piece of " green protective " or rubber tissue wi'apped round a loosely arranged roll of gauze in the form of a cigarette, is sometimes used, but is not so effective as a tube. A good plan is to pass a narrow strip of gauze down the rubber tube ; this can easily be changed, and serves the purpose of preventing the tube from becoming blocked by coagu- lated blood and pus. Sometimes lavage of the peritoneal cavity is advisable, as in those cases of ruptured gastric or duodenal ulcer in which the peritoneal cavity is flooded with acrid gastric contents and solid particles of food, an,d in certain cases of intraperitoneal haemorrhage when it is desirable to wash away large quantities of blood and clot. In such instances the interference with intraperitoneal phagocytosis is of less moment than the desirability of ridding the peritoneum of foreign matter. Drainage is not always necessary. It is not required m intraperitoneal haemorrhage, in peritonitis from an inflamed cyst, in gonorrhceal peri- tonitis, or in the great majority of cases of ruptured gastric ulcer. These are all instances of peritonitis in which the infection is of a mild type. In colon bacillus infections, on the other hand, represented by the vast majority of cases of peritonitis of intestinal origin, it is usually advisable to leave a drain down to the original site of the infection. After-treatment.—Posture is important. The Fowler position is now widely adopted, the patient being propped up almost in a sitting position, with the object of preventing the gravitation of fluid upwards towards the diaphragm (Fig. 466, p. 639). If this position be used, careful watch should be kept for any collection of pus in the pelvis. When the patient has been put back into bed, every effort must be directed towards combating shock. The various means of deaHng with this condition are explained in Vol. I., p. 330. It is of the utmost importance to get the bowels opened freely as soon as possible ; a dose of calomel may be followed by repeated doses of magnesium sulphate until a free action is obtained, and enemata containing turpentine are often useful. Subcutaneous injection of pituitary extract (n\xv of a 20 per cent, solution) appears to be useful " in stimulating peristaltic action. In this connexion it should be re- membered that the administration of opium is to be avoided. The continuous administration of saline solution per rectum by Murphy's method has many advocates, and good results are obtained