878 THE BLADDER chronic. In acute prevesical abscess, in addition to the symptoms of abscess, there are suprapubic pain and tenderness, dullness on percussion, and above the pubes appears a prominent rounded swelling, which closely resembles a distended bladder, but remains unchanged on emptying the bladder. In chronic prevesical abscess there are obscure pain and a moderate degree of cystitis. 2. Pericystitis from, disease of other organs.—When an appendicular abscess- invades the pelvis it may open into the bladder. There are signs of cystitis, and later the discharge of a quantity of fetid pus in the urine, followed by acute cystitis, and a fistula may form between the caecum or appendix and the bladder. The urine remains clear till the abscess has ruptured into the- bladder, when it becomes purulent and fetid, and if a fistula forms it con- tains faecal material and gas is passed with the urine. There is a hard mass in the region of the bladder, extending suprapubically or confined to the pelvis. Similar symptoms are produced by pericystitis originating in the rectum, sigmoid flexure, or small intestine. There may be intermittent discharge of pus with pain and fever in the intervals of retention of pus, or continuous discharge of pus without general symptoms. The diagnosis is made from the intermittent discharge of large quantities- of pus in the urine, and the absence of pyonephrosis. Cystoscopy shows a patch of thickened inflamed mucous membrane, and a round or irregular opening may be seen in this area. Treatment.—No radical treatment for chronic fibro-lipomatous- cystitis is possible. In acute cases the perivesical areolar planes should be freely drained. A prevesical abscess or an interstitial abscess may be acci- dentally opened in exploring the bladder by suprapubic operation. Chronie abscesses are opened by a vertical or transverse suprapubic incision and blunt dissection. Great care should be taken not to open the peritoneum. FISTULA 1. Suprapubic Vesical Fistula The orifice of the fistula is usually situated at the lower end of a supra- pubic operation scar. It Ib small, and may be surrounded by a collar of granulation tissue, or it may lie at the bottom of a depressed scar. When the urine is decomposing and constant cleanliness is not observed the scar is thick and red and the surrounding skin inflamed and excoriated. All the urine may escape, or it may be discharged partly by the urethra. The leak may be intermittent. Etiology.—A permanent fistula may be intentionally formed by the surgeon for incurable urethral obstruction or other disease. Fistula resulting from accidental wounds or from extension of malignant growths or tuberculous disease is rare. The most frequent form of fistula results from the non-healing of a suprapubic cystotomy wound. This is caused by septic cystitis, too long retention of drainage-tubes, adhesion of the cyst- otomy wound to the back of the pubic S3Tnphysis, prolapse of a peritonea sac, spread of malignant growth or tuberculous infection along the track, unrelieved urethral obstruction, or delay in healing due to old age or extreme debility or nervous disease. Treatment.—Sepsis is energetically treated by daily washing the bladder, a catheter being tied in the urethra. Should these measures fail, the