RECTAL PROLAPSE stituted which may or may not contain an abdominal viscus. In a few cases the hernial contents have been known to protrude at the anal orifice in front of the prolapsed bowel, which is displaced posteriorly and its orifice directed backwards. The contents are naturally, in the great majority of cases, small intestine, but the ovaries and bladder have been found. Occasionally, adhesions may form, rendering the contents irreducible. Attempts at reduction in such cases have sometimes resulted in rupture of the rectum and protrusion of the herniated gut through the rent. Diagnosis.—Tlie only protrusions from the anus which may be mistaken for prolapse are the simple polypus (very rarely a nialignant neoplasm), haemorrhoids, and an intussusception. A polypus is easily recognized by its pedicle, alongside which the fuiger can be passed into the bowel. Haemorrhoids form a series of tumours surrounding the anal orifice. An intussusception may at times cause a little difiiculty. In a pure prolapse the mucosa is continuous with the skin at the anal margin ; or at times, the anal canal not being everted, there is a very shallow recess at the base of the prolapse, whereas in an intussusception there is a distinct sulcus into which the finger may be passed freely all around. Treatment.—Any prohjp)se should ho immediately replaced. In order to do this the child should be laid across the knee, or the adult upon the left side, and the prolapse well oiled and firmly grasped with the hand. Gentle pressure in the majority of cases will succeed in reduction. The part protruded last is the apex, and this must be returned first. If reduction be not done immediately, inflam- matory changes and those resulting from the grip of the sphincters may produce serious consequences, and render replacement very difficult or impossible. Eecurrence must be prevented by removal of the cause. Thus, in children, diarrhoea and the feeble wasted condition must receive treat- ment, and, above all, the child must not pass the motions in the sitting posture, but must assume the squatting position on a low pan ; in this position the lower sacrum and coccyx are bent and the rectum is more supported than in the sitting posture. In children this line of treatment will usually cure the disease, but in a very small minority, in spite of all care, the prolapse will recur, demanding some form of operative treatment. In adults similar lines of treatment should be instituted in the first place, but in the majority of these no cure will result, and further treatment is indicated. Numerous pessaries have been invented to prevent prolapse, but all are unsatisfactory, and should only be employed when there are special contra-indications to operation. Many and varied operative procedures have been performed for