164 THE TONGUE The anterior or lingual portion is covered with mucous membrane beset with filiform and fungiform papillae, the former being delicate papillomatous processes of connective tissue covered with epitheUum. When tliis epithelium proliferates and desquamates in excess, and especially when bacteria and food particles collect in the spaces between the papillae, the condition described as " furred tongue" arises. In the middle line a slight fissure may be seen, which in some pathological conditions becomes peculiarly exaggerated. The posterior or pharyngeal portion is beset with small nodular masses, each surrounding a central pit, visible to the naked eye. These nodules are masses of lymphoid tissue, and in the aggregate are termed the lingual tonsil. The circumvallate papillae, which are placed at the junction of the two parts, are actively concerned in the sense of taste ; they are curious flat-topped elevations surrounded by a trench in which the taste-buds are embedded. The V-shaped groove along which these papillae lie is termed the sulcus terminalis, and at its apex the foramen caecum may be occasionally found. At its extreme posterior part the dorsum linguae is attached by a median fold to the epiglottis, the glosso-epiglottidean fold, while laterally it is connected to the pharynx by the phar3mgo-epigiottidean folds, which together with the glosso-epiglottidean folds form the boundaries of the two lateral depressions, the valleculac. The inferior surface is free from papillae, but shows a median band, the fraenum linguae, connecting the mucous membrane of the tongue with that of the floor of the mouth; and close to the latter, on either side of the fraenum, the openings of Wharton's duct, the duct of the submaxillary gland, can be seen. On either side of the fraenum the large ranine veins are clearly visible, while placed still farther laterally are the plicae fimbriatae— folds which correspond to the under-tongue of the lemurs, and which mark fairly accurately the course of the ranine arteries. The lateral margins possess papillae similar to those found on the anterior part of the dorsum, while just in front of the anterior palatine fold—a band which descends to the tongue in front of the tonsil and contains the fibres of the palato-glossus-—a number of vertical ridges are situated, the folia linguae, which are studded with taste-buds and represent the papillae foliatae of the rabbit. The muscular mass of the tongue is divisible into two main groups, the extrinsic muscles, which reach the tongue from surrounding bones and structures, and the intrinsic or linguales, which are confined to its substance. Except the palato-glossus, which probably derives its nerve supply from the spinal accessory by means of the pharyn- geal plexus, the muscles are supplied by the hypoglossal nerve.