INTUSSUSCEPTION 485 The condition is most frequently met with in young children, and in them gives rise to one form of acute obstruction. When it occurs as a primary affection in the adult, the symptoms are usually those of a gradual or intermittent obstruction, which, however, may cul- minate in an acute and complete attack. A typical intussusception forms a firm, rigid, sausage-like swelling, which, on account of the traction on the mesentery, usually assumes a semilunar or horseshoe shape. It is composed of three concentrically arranged tubes of bowel, which are differentiated from without inwards, as follows : (1) the receiving tube or sheath ; (2) the returning tube ; and (3) the entering tube. The entering and returning tubes together form the intussusceptum, and the receiving tube is the intussuscipiens. The most advanced part of the intussusceptum, where the en- tering and returning layers join, is loiown as the apex, and is usually the starting-point of the invagination ; and the part at which the returning and receiving layers are continuous, and where the mesentery enters, is spoken of as the neck. In the space be- tween the entering and return- ing layers, on the concave side of the intussusception, the mesen- tery is tightly packed (Fig. 413). In vertical section, the mass p-g^ 414.—Cross-section of consists of six layers, three on intussusception, each side of the central canal; and on transverse section, of three concentric rings, so arranged that mucous surfaces are in contact with mucous surfaces, and serous with serous (Fig. 414). Multiple intussusceptions.—If the sheath is abnormally loose it may become folded on itself, forming a double intussusception (Fig. 416). In rare cases it is twice folded—triple intussusception. According to the segment of bowel imphcated, three types of intus- susception are recognized : the entero-colic, in which the small intestine is invaginated into the colon ; the colic, in which the one part of the colon passes into the adjacent part ; and the enteric, in which one part of the small intestine is invaginated into another part. Acute Intussusception in the Child As the great majority of cases of intussusception occur in children and involve the ileo-ca^cal region, giving rise to a form of acute