554 THE APPENDIX of tlie caecum, chronic csecal intussusception, tuberculous peritonitis, tuberculous mesenteric glands, and sarcoma of the ventral aspect of the ilium. The differential diagnosis of these conditions is not always possible without an abdominal exploration. Appendicectomy.—The removal of the appendix in the quiet period is an operation which is practically devoid of danger to life, and, if properly performed, is without risk of subsequent weakness of the abdominal wall. No special preparation is needed beyond the customary emptying of the bowels by enema on the morning of the operation, and the shaving and thorough cleansing of the skin at and around the site of the operation. The method of entering the abdominal cavity is a matter of great importance. Formerly the incision was made either directly through the muscles, or through the semilunar line ; both these methods have rightly been abandoned by nearly all surgeons at the present day, as almost inevitably being followed by a postoperative ventral hernia. The method of splitting the right rectus muscle in the direction of its fibres has been referred to in dealing \^'ith acute appendicitis ; there it possesses certain advantages which do not necessarily hold good in the case of an interval operation for appendicectomy. There are two chief methods, namely, the " gridiron" incision of McBurney, and the temporary displacement of the rectus muscle de- vised by W. H. Battle. In the former the skin incision crosses the spino-umbilical line at a point 1^ in. from the antero-superior iliac spine, and is made to divide the aponeurosis of the external oblique in the same direction and for the same distance. Retractors are employed to spread the skin and aponeurosis apart as widely as pos- sible, and the fascia covering the internal oblique is divided at right angles to the first incision. The knife is then laid aside, and by blunt dissection the internal oblique and transversalis abdominis muscles are split in the direction of their fibres, which at this point is as nearly as possible identical. The transversahs fascia is thus exposed, and, together with the peritoneum, is divided in a direction parallel with the skin incision. Battle's incision crosses the spino-umbilical line at right angles near its middle, and exposes the anterior layer of the rectus sheath, which is then divided a little internally to the skin incision and in the same direction. The outer border of the rectus muscle is now freed and drawn inwards with a retractor. The pos- terior layer of the rectus sheath, together with the underlying peri- toneum, is next divided either vertically or transversely, care being taken to avoid division of the motor nerves to the rectus, which are readily identified as soon as the muscle has been drawn aside. Both these incisions are useful, and are followed by no weakness of