THE TONGUE i8o 4. GLOSSODYNIA EXFOLIATIVA In this condition violent pain is complained of in the tongue out of all proportion to the local change, which is very similar to that occurring in the preceding variety. It appears to be a neuralgia of the lingual nerves associated with a thinning of the epithelium which may be compared with the trophic changes occurring in some forms of trigeminal neuralgia. Anaemic women are more subject to it than men. Treatment.—The application of nitrate of silver or the actual cautery is sometimes of service. Da Costa mentions a case in which the chewing of a piece of tarred rope relieved the pain. 5. HERPES Attacks the tongue as it does other parts of the body, the resulting eruptions having all the usual features of the herpetic type. There is a formation in the epidermis of multiple vesicles which are sur- rounded by inflammatory zones. In some cases the vesicular forma- tion proceeds to such an extent that the term hydroa has been given to it. The ordinary course of the disease is for the vesicle to rupture, sometimes becoming pustular first, and to leave an ulcer covered with a pellicle which consists chiefly of desquamated epithelium. Healing usually takes place under appropriate treatment, but. occasionally the ulcer persists or even spreads. The amount of pain attending the eruption varies enormously ;. in some cases it is violent, comparable to the pain in herpes zoster. The disease is presumably of nervous origin, with a remarkable tendency to recurrence, this recurrence being favoured in susceptible subjects by excess in the use of tobacco or alcohol, or by exposure to cold. There is no evidence to connect the disease with syphilis,, although it is often associated with herpetic eruptions on the penis. Dyspeptic subjects are said to suffer from it. It must not be con- fused with the pustules of impetigo. Treatment.—A sharp mercurial purge should be given, and careful dieting and complete abstinence from stimulants must be enjoined. Arsenic may be tried. According to Butlin there are two classes of case—one in which a mouth-wash of carbolic acid, spirits of chloroform, myrrh, and eau-de-Cologne will bring about speedy reso- lution ; another in which an ointment with a basis of lanolin and vaseline, to which are added cocaine and a weak antiseptic such as boric acid, will give the best result. 6. LEUCOPLAKIA Synonyms. — Leucokeratosis ; ichthyosis ; psoriasis linguae ; smoker's patch. We now come to the most common form of chronic superficial