CONGENITAL UMBILICAL HERNIA 603 colon, but small intestine is common, and stomach may be en- countered. Reduction is seldom possible in long-standing cases, owing to the sacculation already mentioned, and when strangulation occurs the prognosis is bad owing to the obesity of the patient and the pulmonary complications frequently associated with it. The discomfort induced by a large umbilical hernia may be very great; apart from the constant drag on the abdominal contents, the weight to be supported, the interference with clothing, and the unsight- liness of the patient's figure, there is constant liability to attacks of colic, nausea, constipation, or actual incarceration of the hernia. Little can be done to relieve these troubles except by operation, and the risk of this is, in very stout patients, considerable. Congenital umbilical hernia.—It is customary to apply tliis term to hernia at the navel in infants and young children when it occurs in the first few months of life. Two forms of it are described. In one there is intestine present in the umbilical cord at birth, retraction not yet having taken place. Here the umbilicus is represented by a circular gap, the spread-out membranes of the cord covering the loop of intestine, and fusing with the skin at the margins of the gap. In such a case, these avascular amniotic membranes may become gan- grenous or may rupture, leaving a factitious ectopia of the viscera ; in most cases of this kind death results from septic peritonitis. If the membranes retain their integrity sufficiently long to permit of the retraction of the bowel, the aperture may close, but, the cicatrix being weak, a hernia may develop at the site of closure at a later date. In the other form of this liernia there is complete retraction of the bowel at the time of birth, but the sound closure of the aperture is delayed. In such cases there will be a bulging of the degenerate skin at the umbilicus on any expiratory effort, and subsequently from lack of treatment, or from improper treatment, a large hernia may develop. To this variety the term " infantile " may be applied. Although these hernias, when correctly treated, rarely give rise to serious trouble during infancy or adolescence, they do at times become strangulated. In any case, the cicatrix of a " delayed closure " is never so perfect as that of the normal umbilicus ; a small peritoneal dimple, which must be regarded as a predisposing factor in the umbilical hernia of later life, frequently remains to mark the site on the visceral surface of the parietes. Ventral hernia—This may be spontaneous or acquired, the latter being very much the commoner. Apart from umbilical hernia, which is only a special form of ventral hernia, protrusions of viscera may occur in the middle line above that point (median epigastric hernia), or below it (median hypogastric hernia), or may occupy the entire length of the linea alba (complete median hernia). They may