457 INTESTINAL INJURIES the junction of the descending colon with the pelvic colon, or of the pelvic colon with the rectum, are liable to be torn across. Cases are recorded in which rupture of the small intestine has been produced by the impact of a bullet which grazed the abdominal wall without penetrating it. The mesentery may be torn from the bowel for a considerable distance, sometimes for several inches. Injuries produced by bursting.—Only in rare cases is the bowel burst by increased intra-intestinal pressure induced by violence applied from without. This may occur if, for the moment, both ends of a coil of bowel distended with gas or food are occluded, and severe force is brought to bear on the full loop. It goes without saying that if the bowel is weakened by ulceration it is more liable to be ruptured by such a form of violence. Morbid anatomy.—In the great majority of cases, the small intestine is the seat of rupture, and, as a rule, the bowel gives way only at one point. In about 10 per cent, of cases, however, it is torn at several points. The wall of the intestine may be merely contused, blood being effused between its coats. If the effusion is in the mucous membrane, it may lead to haemorrhage into the lumen, with blood-stained stools; or sloughing of the mucous membrane may ensue and lead to the formation of an ulcer. The lowering of the vitality of the bowel may admit of organisms traversing the walls and setting up localized peri- tonitis some days after the accident. If only one or other of the coats is torn through—incomplete rupture —the immediate escape of the intestinal contents is prevented, but peritonitis may subsequently result, either from necrosis of the damaged portion or from the passage of organisms through it. When all the coats are torn through—complete rupture—the con- tents usually escape at once into the general peritoneal cavity, and set up septic peritonitis ; but if the tear is small and the bowel is empty at the time, the mucous membrane may protrude and plug it, and adhesions form with the omentum or with adjacent coils and so prevent leakage. The circular muscles contract and so help to occlude the rupture, and it is possible that the portion of the bowel above the lesion is paralysed, and so does not send its contents on into the damaged segment. The presence of peritonitis, therefore, does not necessarily connote complete rupture of the bowel, nor does its absence necessarily indicate that the bowel has not been torn. The colon is very seldom ruptured by direct violence. Berry and Giuseppi have collected 132 cases from the records of London hospitals during 15 years (1892-1907). As in the small intestine, the lesion may be a complete tear or a small perforation, and the devitalized bowel may subsequently give way at one or more points.