77 MAMMARY CANCER: DIAGNOSIS Tlie remarks made respecting a deep cyst apply also to a fibro- adenoma deeply situated and surrounded by an area of chronic mastitis which partially fixes it in the breast. The diagnosis from cancer then becomes impossible, and exploration is imperative. Signs of contraction and adhesion are absent. Puncture with a trocar shows that the tumour is solid. All the means of diagnosis, save actual exploration, fail to exclude carcinoma. Gummatous and tuberculous mastitis, wliich in their early stages simulate ordinary chronic mastitis, may later produce one or more indurated fixed lumps in the breast. Adhesion to skin and fascia may occur, and orange-rind skin may be present. Moreover, in tubercle, and even sometimes in gummatous mastitis, the axillary glands may be enlarged, hard, and not tender. At this period the resemblance to carcinoma is very close. Usually, however, in syphilis a careful search will detect tertiary lesions other than those in the breast, and the rapid effect of treatment with iodide will clear up all doubts. Tuberculosis usually occurs in younger people than does carcinoma, but sometimes the diagnosis is impossible before operation. In the later stages of both gumma and tubercle the diagnostic feature is a central area of softening in the midst of the indurated mass, and still later the discoloration of the skin which heralds the bursting of an abscess. Fibrotic changes in the breast resulting from a former abscess may be accompanied by some of the signs of cancer, and especially by adhesion of the skin and shrinkage of the affected breast. The history of suppuration, the presence of a scar upon the skin, and the absence of an underlying tumour will suffice to prevent a mistake. In the rare cases in which a simjde tumour of the breast penetrates the skin (fungating cystic adenoma, fungating duct papilloma), malig- nant disease is closely simulated. Microscopical examination of a large piece of the fungating tissue is the best solution of the difficulty. In fungating simple tumours it may be possible to pass a probe some distance within the cystic cavity. The diagnosis between a hard cancer and a sarcoma is easy, owing to the absence in sarcoma of the signs dependent upon contraction, and the large size, softness, and rapid growth of the tumour. But a soft cancer and a sarcoma may be quite indistinguishable save on microscopical examination. In sarcoma, however, the axillary glands are only exceptionally infected. Prognosis.—The prognosis in breast cancer is difficult. The questions requiring answer are mainly two. If the growth runs its natural course, how long has the patient to live ? After operation, what is the chance that the growth will not return ? Upon the first point very little that is helpful can be said, and the