THE URETHRA 886 The second urethra may open on the perineum or in the inguinal region. A more frequent condition is where a canal opens on the glans or below the penis and runs backwards on the upper or under surface of the penis. The track varies in length from ^ to 5^ in., and usually ends blindly. In a few cases the canal joins the urethra, and rarely it passes back into the bladder. . A double urethra has been described in the female subject. When the second canal communicates with the urethra or bladder, urine escapes from both orifices. The penis may swing from side to side during micturition. In gonorrhoeal infection there is discharge from both orifices, but the infection may attack the abnormal canal while the urethra escapes. When the abnormal canal is the seat of chronic inflammation it may be laid open in its entire length and the lining membrane destroyed with the cautery. A thick scar may result which interferes with erection. Extirpation of the unopened tract by dissection is more difficult, but the after-result is better. Congenital Narrowing of the Urethra The points most frequently affected are the external meatus, the junction of the fossa navicularis and the penile urethra, the membranous urethra, and the prostatic urethra. The external meatus is most frequently the seat of stenosis. The symptoms are those of stricture. Treatment.—In stenosis of the meatus the urethra is slit down- wards, and the mucous membrane and skin are brought together by catgut sutures. In deeply situated stenosis, dilatation with graduated bougies should be tried, and, that failing, external urethrotomy, followed by the regular instrumentation. Congenital Dilatation of the Urethra This is independent of stenosis. The dilatation affects the under surface of the penile urethra, rarely the bulbous urethra. A similar condition may occur in the female urethra. Symptoms may appear soon after birth, or may be delayed. Micturition is frequent and painful, the stream is poor and is followed by dribbling. A swelling appears on the under surface of the penis during micturition, and the penis may be twisted to one or other side, or becomes erect. Incontinence is a late result. Treatment.—The sac should be excised, the urethra repaired, and the skin stitched separately, A catheter is tied in after the operation. Hypospadias and Epispadias These conditions are considered at pp. 966, 967. PROLAPSE About 170 case of this rare condition are on record, more than half of them in girls under 15, and most of the rest in elderly women. (See p. 985.) URETHROCELE This condition—a pouching of the urethral mucous membrane, filled with decomposing purulent urine—is considered at p. 985. A similar condition may occur in men. INJURIES AND RUPTURE Injuries The urethra may be injured from within the lumen by the passage of instruments (see p. 883), or from without by cutting weapons,