LYMPHANGIOPLASTY FOR BRAWNY ARM 97 at quadrant intervals. Towards the shoulder the lines of silk on the flexor aspect curve outwards around the deltoid muscle, and converge to meet the ascending threads from the posterior aspect at a point near the posterior border of the deltoid. From this point the silk threads again radiate in the subcutaneous tissue of the back, ter- minating by free ends in the subcutaneous tissues of the scapular region. It is perhaps still better to lead some of them to the scapular region of the opposite side, and others to the lumbar region of the same side, if there is any sign of the oedema extending from tlie arm to the trunk. The operation is done as follows : Take a double line of silk, rather more than twice as long as the arm, and mark its mid-point by clipping on it a pair of artery forceps. Wrap up one half of its lengtli in gauze. Thread the two ends of the other half through the eye of a long probe. Make an incision | in. long through the slcin at the middle of the front of the forearm, just above the wrist-joint. Thrust the probe in the desired line upwards in the subcutaneous tissues well away from the skin towards the region of the elbow, as liigh as is convenient, and cut down upon its point. Withdraw the probe through the incision last made, and draw the silk after it as far as it will come. Introduce the probe through the incision from which it has just emerged, thrust it upwards again in the selected line, and repeat the foregoing steps until the point selected for the convergence of the threads is reached. Here an incision 1 in. long is made, through which the probe with its two silk threads is drawn out. The other half of the silk loop is now led upwards in the selected line along the other border of the flexor surface. The limb is turned over and the extensor loop of silk is similarly introduced. When this has been done, eight free ends of silk are hanging out from the incision of convergence at the posterior border of the deltoid. Two at a time, these are tucked away in various directions in the subcutaneous tissues of the back by the following manoeuvre : Clip a forceps on the selected pair of silk threads just where it emerges from the topmost incision. Take a long probe, cut off the ends of the two threads so that they are 4 in. shorter than the probe, and thread them into the eye. Thrust the probe downwards from the incision in the desired direction until the probe unthreads itself. Withdraw the probe carefully, leaving the two silk threads to occupy its track. Complete the operation by sewing up the incisions with horsehair. The principal difficulties of the operation are connected with the maintenance of the silk in an aseptic condition. Owing to the large area dealt with, extending on to the back, the necessary changes in the posture of the arm, and the length of the silk threads, accidental contact may very easily occur between the silk and the surface of //