•682 RECTUM AND ANAL CANAL (d) Temporary loss of control is naturally present after forcible stretching of tlie sphincter muscle, but in the majority of cases is partially recovered from within a few hours. Removal of the sensitive area of the mucous membrane is partially responsible for loss of control; ihence the time for return of control is longer after the Whitehead than after the ligature or the clamp-and-cautery method of operating. But recovery after the Whitehead method is usually complete in a fort- night, and practically always in three weeks. When the sphincter -has been stretched by piles for months or years before operation, and again forcibly at operation, re-establishment of muscular power is ■slower. In such cases the sphincters should not be stretched more than is absolutely necessary. (e) Stricture.—This never follows the clamp-and-cautery method >or the excision of individual piles. It may follow the ligature or the Whitehead operation. In the latter, union by first intention practically never occurs, but, the stitches giving way about the fourth or fifth day, the mucosa retracts for a variable distance. The tendency to stricture is proportionate to the degree of retraction of the mucosa. In the ligature operation healthy mucosa is left between the raw surfaces, and from this epithelium wiU be regenerated. Hence the tendency to stricture is greater after the Whitehead than after the ligature operation. After either operation an examination should be made ■during the third or fourth weeks, and any contraction will then be evident. By frequent digital stretching when the fibrous tissue is still young, a stricture of sufficient degree to cause symptoms may usually be entirely prevented. Hsemorrhoids occasionally recur, or, more strictly speaking, fresh piles form. This is, however, most unusual if all have been properly removed, and if sufficient care be taken to avoid the causes which are held responsible for the production of piles. Naturally, recurrence would be comparatively more frequent after the clamp-and-cautery, the excision of the individual pile and the ligature methods of operating than after the Whitehead operation. But it is stated that it may occur even after the excision of the " pile-bearing area." ANAL FISSURE Definition.—An elongated narrow ulcer in the long axis of the anal canal within the sphere of influence of the external sphincter muscle. Etiology and pathology.—Anal fissure occurs most fre- quently in adult life; it is rare in childhood and uncommon in old age. Chronic constipation is the usual predisposing cause ; in it the sphincters tend to become hypertrophied and indurated, the anal canal to lose elasticity and dilatability; the hard scybalous mass actually tears the skin of the anal orifice. Healing is prevented by