RECTUM AND ANAL CANAL 690 intermuscular fistula, and in the absence of any special contra-indication should be earnestly advised. It consists essentially in slitting up the original fistulous track and all secondary sinuses leading from it. In order to do this the internal orifice must he found. If the probe can be passed along the whole length of the fistulous track, all structures superficial to it are divided, including the external sphincter muscle. If a probe cannot be passed right through, it should be introduced either from the cutaneous surface or the internal orifice as far as possible, the sinus slit up, and the other aperture carefully sought and enlarged. It is imperative that no artificial opening be made into the bowel and then enlarged on the supposition that it is the fistula. The original communication with the bowel must in all cases be found, and this opened up, otherwise the fistula obviously will not heal. When the main track has been thus treated, all secondary offshoots must be freely enlarged, and ample drainage provided for them. A submucous track, not infrequently present, should also be freely slit up. The external sphincter muscle should only be divided in one place, and transversely to the direction of its fibres. If this rule be followed, incontinence of fteces will not result. All overhanging edges of skin and mucous membrane must be removed. The wound must be carefully dressed to ensure healing from the bottom. Should operation be refused or inadvisable, scrupulous cleanliness must be enforced, and stimulating lotions e.g. silver nitrate, copper sulphate. Friar's balsam, tincture of iodine, injected along the track. A supramuscular fistula tracks through the bowel wall above the internal sphincter muscle, and arises from rectal ulceration, pelvi-rectal abscesses, or very rarely from the burrowing of an ischio- rectal abscess through the levator ani muscle with secondary rupture into the bowel. The orifices vary greatly in position; not infrequently they are multiple internally. Suppuration may extend right around the bowel in the pelvi-rectal space, both anteriorly and posteriorly, reaching the surface through many points. The course and direction of these fistulse and their symptomatology are so indefinite that no concise account of them can be given. The treatment is largely that of the original disease ; thus, malignant disease frequently demands a palliative colostomy. Ulcera- tion and stricture are discussed later (pp. 698, 704). For the fistula itself the only certain plan is to lay the track freely open and pack lightly with gauze. In some cases it is possible to excise the whole lining membrane of the split fistula, to close the opening into the bowel, and then to close the track, at any rate in its deeper part, by a series of buried catgut sutures, special care being taken to reconstitute the divided internal sphincter. But as splitting of the whole track involves division of both sphincters