ANKYLOGLOSSIA obviously too short, and especialh^ if the child's feeding is interfered with, tlie operation becomes necessary. Treatment.—The tongue is raised with the index and middle fingers of the left hand, the frtenal band is rendered tense, and is nicked with a pair of scissors close to the jaw, so as to avoid injuring the ranine vessels. The wound must not be enlarged by tearing up the tongue with the finger. If the child is put to the breast or given a teat to suck, the movement of the tongue thus induced will help to prevent recurrence. This operation is by no means free from danger. A case of fatal hfemorrhage is quoted by Reboul, while macroglossia developed in cases recorded by Burton, Sedillot, and DoUinger. If the tongue is carelessly stripped up after the band has been divided, an ugly wound is left which may form a troublesome ulcer, or cause so much cicatriza- tion that the tongue becomes more fixed than it was at first. For serious hfemorrhage following division of the fraenum a suture should be passed through the tip of the tongue, a strip of gauze dusted with iodoform should be gently packed into the sublingual region on to the bleeding area, and the tongue then pulled out by the suture, which in turn is fixed by a bandage or piece of strapping to the chin ; thus the bleeding area is fairly firmly compressed. If this method fails to arrest the bleeding, an ansesthetie must be given and an attempt made to secure the bleeding-point; it will be found more satisfactory to under-run the vessel with a curved needle threaded with catgut than to attempt to seize it with forceps in the friable tissues of a young child. The cautery must not be used. Acquired Ankyloglossia This condition is the result of extensive destruction of the organ following sloughing in smallpox, or mercurial or caustic poisoning ; occasionally it is due to widespread syphilitic damage, or to operative procedures of various kinds. TONGUE-SWALLOWING Excessive mobility of the tongue usually results from extreme length and looseness of the fra'uum, which therefore fails to control the movements of the organ ; the tongue itself is unduly long. Fair- bairn records a case of suffocation, and Hennig mentions a case where the child died in a paroxysm of whooping-cough, apparently from sucking the tongue into the pharynx. A similar but less marked condition sometimes occurs in patients under the influence of anaesthetics, and after removal of portions of the tongue it is one of the complications to be specially treated. If the child be seen in a state of sufEocation arising from this cause,