GASTRIC ULCER : TREATMENT 351 been attended to and the patient has been kept at rest in bed and subjected to medical treatment. If tliis fails to relieve, or relapse occurs, surgical treatment should be adopted as offering the patient almost certain relief with the prospect of cure in over 80 per cent, of cases at a very slight risk. There is stiU some difierence of opinion with regard to the actual surgical treatment of gastric ulcer. Two operations are performed —the direct, excision ; the indirect, gastro-jejunostomy—by which the condition of the stomach is influenced so as to allow the ulcer to heal. Most surgeons are agreed that gastro-jejunostomy is the operation of choice in cases in which the ulcer is in the pyloric region of the stomach, but opinions are divided as to the treatment of ulcers situated on the lesser curvature, away from the pylorus. Moynihan and Mayo consider that ulcers in this situation should be treated directly by excision, as in their experience the results of treatment by gastro-enterostomy in such cases are not so good as in ulcers else- where. Rodman, however, on the grounds that carcinoma starts from chronic ulcer, and that lu'emorrhage and perforation have followed gastro-jejunostomy successfully performed, advocates, even in pyloric ulcers, excision of the pylorus and lesser curvature wich posterior gastro-jejunostomy, practically a partial gastrectomy. But it has to be proved that carcinoma develops in the scar of a healed ulcer, although Moynihan's cases are suggestive [see p. 352). Even after resection of the ulcer, relapse has occurred ; Mansell-Moullin, Robson, Sinclair White, Terrier, Deaver, and others have recorded such cases. Ulcers are also frequently multiple. That an ulcer, although causing no obstruction, heals after gastro- jejunostomy is now established. I recorded a case in which the patient died of a cause other than gastric, twenty-eight months after I had performed gastro-jejunostomy for a large saddle-shaped ulcer on the lesser curvature, adherent to the pancreas. It had quite healed, and the scar was liardly visible. Sir Frederic Eve has recorded a case in which the ulcer was healed five weeks later. Similar cases have been described by others. With regard to the after-effects, it has been urged that excision should be performed because perforation and htemorrhage may occur before the ulcer is healed, or carcinoma may develop later. Isolated cases of perforation following gastro-jejunostomy for gastric ulcer have been published. More cases of hsematemesis have been recorded, and fatal cases have been reported by Robson, Kocher, Mayo, etc., at periods when the patient was apparently well. In one patient who was under my care, one month after gastro-jejunostomy a sudden and fatal hsemorrhage occurred from an artery in the floor of a large ulcer adherent to the pancreas and spreading to the lesser curvature