339 INJURY FROM CAUSTICS abdomen lias been opened, by means of forceps sucli as Briining's or Bilton Pollard's. If the foreign body is in the duodenum, an attempt should be made to push it back into the stomach and extract it from there ; only if this fails should the opening be made in the duodenum. Prognosis.—This is extremely good. Out of 20 cases published since 1900, and collected by Deaver and Ashurst, in which operation was performed, there was only 1 death. INJURY BY CAUSTIC FLUIDS Mineral acids and alkalis, swallowed by accident or with suicidal intent, cause serious injury to the stomach. In many of these cases surgical treatment is .sooner or later necessary to remedy the resulting contraction-deformities of the stomach.^ The cardiac end and pyloric portion of the stomach suffer most, and in some cases the latter is alone injured. The stomach is markedly affected if a large quantity of corrosive fluid has been swallowed and the stomach is empty. Vomiting is incessant, and the vomit contains blood and is often foul-smelling. In two cases the smell was so offensive that I was asked to see the patients as examples of gastro-colic fistula;. Thirst is marked, rest- lessness is extreme, and many patients succumb in the early stages to lung complications. Perforation may take place. This is stated to occur most fre- quently after alkalis, an unusual form of corrosive poisoning in London. Of the 12 cases of perforation recorded in the footnote below, 11 occurred after hydrochloric acid, being nearly half the fatal cases. Treatment.—After the appropriate antidote has been given, rectal feeding must be employed and no food given by the mouth. If there are ulcerated surfaces in the mouth and pharpix, these should be kept clean by mild antiseptic solutions. After a few days, feeding should be cautiously begun. Small quantities of albumin water should be first tried, and, if this causes no pain or vomiting, Benger's or Allenburys' food may be given. If at the end of about a week it is found that the introduction of food causes pain and vomiting, operation should be performed without delay. In most cases jejunostomy will be necessary, but if the lesion proves to be confined to the pyloric portion of the stomach, gastro- jejunostomy should be performed. ^ Cases of caustic-swallowing admitted to London Hospital in the decen- nium 1899-1908—total. 189. Deaths within a few days, 35—of these 12 died of gastric perforation (11 HCl, 1 carbolic); and 8 cases required operations for mechanical disabilities within a few months, xiz. 4 for pyloric stenosis, 3 for oesophageal stricture, and 1 for both. There is no doubt that 8 out of 154 greatly understates the frequency of late surgical complications.