2/8 THE (ESOPHAGUS on the position, extent, and degree of the burn or injury inflicted on the wall of the oesophagus. As regards position, naturally the brunt of the injury falls upon the narrower portions of the tube, viz. (1) at its origin; (2) opposite the bifurcation of the trachea ; (3) at the cardiac end. The burns may be sharply localized to any one of these positions, or may extend over the entire wall, causing greater destruction of tissue opposite the narrower portions. The degree of the burn and the amount of tissue destruction depend on the nature of the fluid and the rapidity with which it enters the stomach. The stricture resulting from a localized burn may be only super- ficial, giving rise to an annular or linear narrowing. This is not common. More extensive and deep burns cause considerable tubular narrowing with marked fibrous thickening of the entire wall of the oesophagus. Even the peri-oesophageal tissues are sometimes involved, and their contraction may distort the wall of the oesophagus and lead to a deviation from its natural position. The oesophageal wall above the stricture may be dilated and thinned, but this is not often seen. More commonly a thickening involving the muscular and outer coat is present and extends above and below the stricture. In my experi- ence this is more commonly seen in tubular strictures. (In superficial annular strictures dilatation above the narrowing is more likely to occur.) The oesophagus at the site of the stricture, and above and below, is generally transformed into a tough, unyielding tube (Fig. 354). Progressive contraction of the cicatrized area gradually occurs, leading to a dense and resistant stricture. The mucosa is usually destroyed, but the submucous tissue contains large numbers of plasma cells and everywhere shows formation of new connective tissue. The circular muscular fibres are generally much hypertrophied. Sometimes ulceration of the mucous membrane occurs in the dilated wall above the stricture as the result of the lodgment and decomposition of retained particles of food. Pouches of the wall very rarely take place. The diagnosis of fibrous strictures of the oesophagus due to the action of a corrosive is not difficult. The patient complains of a gradually increasing dysphagia, commencing at variable periods after the injury. The symptoms immediately following the burn are chiefly pain and inability to swallow any but liquid food. This con- dition improves after a few days, when more and more solid food can be taken. After a week or two the symptoms of a progressive dysphagia supervene. The dysphagia is painless and ingravescent, and, imless treatment be adopted, gradually becomes absolute. The