LINGUAL ULCERS 187 sidered under the appropriate headings to avoid repetition, but we must here draw attention to the tendency of such ulcers, if neglected, to become rdtimately carcinomatous. In making a differential diagnosis the finding of some local cause is exceedingly important; only recently I saw a patient who had a chronic ulcer which had been diagnosed as mahgnant. On in- quiry it was found that the patient wore an ill-fitting tooth-plate which pressed against the ulcer, but, as it was not always worn, its importance in producing the condition had been overlooked ; when this was remedied the ulcer speedily healed under the application of chromic acid. Treatment consists primarily in removing the source of irrita- tion, and in applying local remedies such as chromic acid, and ordering an antiseptic mouth-wash. In most cases the response to treatment is prompt. There is one point, however, which requires special atten- tion. While these ulcers are truly traumatic in their incipient stages, they become " infected " ulcers, as shown by their liability to undergo acute inflammatory changes, and by the glandular enlargement which accompanies them. As has been pointed out, a condition of pyorrhoea is often associated with them, which, by constantly reinfecting the ulcer, renders local treatment futile. Such cases are eminently suitable for vaccine treatment, which in pyorrhcea has succeeded admirably in the hands of Goadby ; if this be undertaken, together with the remedies advised above, healing of the ulcer will be speedy and complete. In cases where treatment is resisted or where the surgeon suspects a commencing malignant change, a piece (or better still, the whole) of the ulcer should be excised and submitted to microscopic exam- ination. If a malignant change has supervened, the radical operation for lingual carcinoma should be performed. ULCER OF THE FR.ENUM This condition occurs in children affected with whooping-cough, and is due to the tongue being forced up against the incisor teeth in the violent expiratory efforts of the coughing. It has been in- correctly stated that this ulceration is the cause and not the effect of whooping-cough. Sometimes these ulcers are associated with small papillomatous growtlis on either side of the fraenum—Riga's disease. The ulceration subsides as the cough disappears. MERCURIAL ULCERS In ulcers resulting from the injudicious administration of mercury an unclean state of the mouth is a very important contributory factor. Patients whose mouths are kept scrupulously clean are able to tolerate