LEUCOPLAKIA i8i glossitis—a form wMcli, as the above names imply, presents itself in a number of different guises. Pathology.—As the result of some irritation—and it by no means follows that the irritant is of the same intensity and nature in every case—a chronic inflammation ensues in the mucous membrane of the tongue; the papillae disappear, a corneous change takes place in the epidermis, and there is a development of scar tissue in the derma. Changes occur chiefly in the Malpighian layer, where the cells become vacuolated and multiplied and loaded with eleidin granules. It is most important to recognize that the features of a chronic inflammation are present in the true derma—a phase which is rightly regarded as indieatmg a want of stability, a precancerous stage in fact, together with abnormal and misdirected activity on the part of the epithelial cells of the epidermis. For a time at least matters are more or less equally balanced, and the barrier of dermal tissue keeps the epithelial cells in check, but, weakened by the effects of inflam- mation and subjected to greater strain by the active changes in the epithelium, the barrier gives way, the epithelial cells, sometimes preceded by a round-celled infiltration, pass beyond their normal limits into the subjacent derma, and a nucleus of cancer is formed. Etiology.—Smoking, syphilis, and gout are the three conditions mainly accused as being contributory, if not actual causative agents, but, while they may be all or severally responsible for the production of chronic superficial glossitis, it is now generally acknowledged that the disease depends upon some inherent susceptibility or weakness of the superficial tissues of the tongue. Just as some patients are liable to skin eruptions and desquamations, so others are subject to super- ficial glossal changes, without any of the three causes mentioned above contributing to them in the least degree. Although syphilis produces a chronic inflammatory change in the superficial layers of the tongue, and in this respect paves the way for the development of a leucoplakial state, it cannot be too firmly insisted on that leucoplakia per se is not a syphilitic manifestation. Smoking, especially if a short hot pipe is used, undoubtedly pro- duces localized areas of inflammation which are known as smoker's patches, and which are classed clinically under the head of leuco- plakia. This must be allowed as an important but not the sole cause of the condition. Hartzell has reported a case in a girl of only 11, but it is very rare before the age of 26-30. Almost any persistent cause of lingual irritation, such as long- continued drinking of crude spirits, or the presence of chronically infected teeth or teeth-sockets, may act as potent etiological agents. Most frequently several causes are at work simultaneously.