CYSTS OF THE BREAST 31 hy enlarged gland orifices. The nipple may hang as low as the umbilicus, and may even reach the pubes. These changes are preceded by attacks of acute lymphangitis, which lead to obliteration of many of the lymphatics of the breast. The enlargement of the organ and the thickening of the skin over it are results of lymphatic obstruction. The cutaneous appearances are exactly those of the " pigskin " familiar in cases of carcinoma. Diagnosis.—In tropical countries, confusion may arise between elephantia.sis and malignant disease of the breast. But in elephantiasis the breast is very greatly enlarged and no lump is present in it. Treatment.—In early stages the breast must be supported by a sling. In view of recent work by Dufougere, Foulerton. and myself, which tends to prove that elephantiasis depends upon a chronic infection by the Staphylococcus fyogenes albus, a vaccine of tills organism should be tried to arrest the disease in its earlier stages. But in late cases amputation of the breast is mdicated. It is un- necessary to remove the pectoral muscles or to clear out the axilla. CYSTS OF THE BREAST Cysts of the breast may be divided clinically into two main classes—(1) those arising in connexion with soHd neoplasms (neoplastic cysts), and (2) those of obstructive or inflammatory origin where no new growth is present (simple cysts). It is difficult to be sure that a cyst, apparently simple, is not really neoplastic. When a cyst has been assigned to the neoplastic category the vital question still remains whether the solid tumour connected with it is innocent or malignant. Cysts of the breast usually occur after the age of 40. They are not very common, forming less than 3 per cent, of cases of mammary tumour which come under hospital treatment. The many varieties of cysts that occur in the breast may be classified as follows :— 1. Cysts arising from distension of the larger ducts. These cysts are usually single and situated near the nipple. i. Galactocele, or milk-cyst. ii. Simple subareolar cyst. 2. Multiple cysts arising from distension of the smaller ducts. These cysts are the result of chronic mastitis. The condition known as general cystic disease of the breast is simply an exaggerated form of cystic chronic mastitis (Fig. 2.54, p. 20). 3. Cysts due to the distension of lymphatic spaces. 4. Cysts arising in connexion with simple tumours. i. Cystic fibro-adenoma. ii. Cystic duct papilloma (Fig. 266).