397 SYPHILIS OF THE STOMACH 2. A tuberculous ulcer usually occurs in the body of tlie stomach, frequently runs transversely to the axis of the viscus, and has all the characters of a tuberculous ulcer elsewhere. The symptoms are variable. Perforation and hfematemesis rarely occur. In one patient, a man of 34 who was under my care with a tuberculous ulcer of the anterior wall of the stomach, the symptoms were indefinite and consisted of epigastric pain and vomit- ing without definite relation to food. In addition to the tuberculous ulcer of stomach, tuberculous peritonitis was present. Exploration was followed by recovery, and the patient is in perfect health at the time of writing, four years after operation. Prognosis depends upon the presence and condition of tubercle elsewhere in tlie body. Treatment.—Operation should only be carried out to relieve pyloric obstruction, when gastro-jeiunostomy should be performed. Otherwise the patient should be subjected to general treatment, as adopted for tuberculosis elsewhere. SYPHILIS OF THE STOMACH Tertiary sypliilitic lesions may be found in the stomach, but they are rare, not more than 50 cases having been recorded. The disease starts in the submucous tissue, and may be diffuse or localized. Ulceration follows in both varieties; perforation may occur; a stricture may be produced at either orifice, more frequently at the pyloric ; or a tumour may form, simulating carcinoma. Of 12 cases observed by Bird, 11 were situated in the pyloric region. The disease is most common in men between the ages of 25 and 40. Fenwick states that pain and vomiting are more severe and hsemorrhage is less common than in simple ulcer. Diagnosis.—There is no single symptom or combination of symptoms wliich will enable the diagnosis to be made from a chronic gastric ulcer or malignant growth. Its presence should be suspected when gastric symptoms occur in a syphilitic patient, and will be confirmed if, after resistance to the usual measures of treatment, they subside under mercury and iodides. Partial gastrectomy has been performed (Tufiier, Bird) for what was considered to be carcinoma but proved to be a gummatous tumour. In nearly all the cases other abdominal manifestations of sypliilis are present. Stress is laid upon peritoneal involvement and the occur- rence of gummata in the liver. With regard to the former. Bird has frequently noted the presence of bluish stria? following the course of the lymphatics, or of opaque bluish-white patches on the peritoneal ■coat. It must be remembered that gastric symptoms frequently arise