506 THE INTESTINES introduction of a flatus tube into tlie rectum, or tlie administration of a turpentine or glycerine enema with Epsom salts, is usually sufficient to relieve the discomfort. If these measures fail, a hypodermic injection of g,-, gr. of eserin, combined with gr. of atropin, often stimulates the peristalsis. Pituitary extract sometimes acts in the same way. If the abdominal wound has been packed or drained, it should be dressed, and the gauze or tube removed. Great relief often follows washing out the stomach. Purgatives must not be given by the mouth, as they only increase the amount of fluid matter in the paralysed intestine, and large enemata should be avoided, as they are liable to be retained. If the symptoms become worse, the wound should be reopened, and if no definite cause for the obstruction be found, or if it cannot be removed, an artificial anus must be formed to drain the bowel. It may be necessary to open the intestine at several places. EMBOLISM AND THROMBOSIS OF THE MESENTERIC BLOOD-VESSELS The clinical picture in these conditions is one of acute intestinal obstruction of the paralytic type, and a diagnosis is seldom made before the abdomen is opened. The pathological appearances and the clinical symptoms are much the same whether the obstruction is in the mesenteric artery or in the vein. The severity of the affection varies with the site and extent of the vascular interference, but even when only a limited area of bowel has its blood-vessels interfered with the condition is a grave one. The patient is usually a man between 30 and 60 years of age, who sutlers from infective endocarditis, mitral stenosis, or cirrhosis of the liver. Without warning, the general symptoms of acute intes- tinal obstruction suddenly develop, but there is often diarrhcea, the patient passing considerable quantities of blood, but getting no relief from movement of the bowels. There is likewise blood in the vomit. If the abdomen is opened, it is found to contain a considerable quantity of dark, blood-stained fluid ; and the affected segment of intestine—varying from a few inches to the whole length of the small intestine and even part of the colon—is found of a dark chocolate colour, firm, swollen, and cedematous. When the condition has lasted for some time, the bowel shows signs of gangrene, and there is more or less generalized peritonitis. The condition usually proves fatal in a few hours, and little benefit has followed excision of the affected portion of bowel.