TUBAL PREGNANCY: SYMPTOMS 1059 in the remainder it is passed as small shreds that escape notice in the general loss. Symptoms and signs.—Until the gestation sac ruptures, the symptoms of tubal pregnancy are indistinguishable from those of intra-uterine pregnancy. Amenorrhoea and morning sickness are present, and in due course the breasts enlarge. The symptoms and signs produced by the rupture of the gestation sac are very varied, and can only be interpreted in the light of a full understanding of the pathology of the condition. 1. Acute intraperitoneal rupture When the primary gesta- tion sac ruptures acutely into the peritoneal cavity the symptoms are most fulminant. The patient is suddenly seized with severe pain and faintness, and soon presents all the symptoms of urgent internal haemorrhage. The skin is blanched and cold, the pulse very fast and small, the respirations gasping, and the mental condition one of acute anxiety. The pain is referred to the abdomen generally. On examina- tion, localizing signs may be slight or absent altogether, for the tubal enlargement is small and liquid blood in the peritoneum produces no tangible tumour, though after a while abdominal rigidity and slight distension may be noticed. These cases may end fatally in a few hours. 2. Intramural and intratubal rupture.—Intramural rupture produces an attack of acute pain due to the rapid swelling of the tubal tissues. If the gestation is destroyed by this event, no further symptoms may occur, and all that can be found is a slight enlargement in the continuity of the tube. More commonly, however, it is followed hy a secondary rupture into the lumen of the tube or into the peritoneum, in which case the attack of pain is repeated, with more severity. Faint- ness and the symptoms of internal hfemorrhage are present, and the signs of a pelvic hsematocele develop. Intratubal rupture may, however, be the primary event, in which case the first attack of pain is more violent and faintness more constant. The signs depend upon whether the abdominal ostium is patent or not. In the first case the blood finds its way into the pelvis and, gradually mounting, floats up the intestines and omentum. Blood in the peri- toneum acts as an irritant to that membrane, and it has been shown that its presence there is followed in a short time by the appearance of micro-organisms. A plastic peritonitis is thus set up, matting the intes- tines and omentum around the collection of blood, now known as a hmmatocele. In the second event, all the blood collects in the tnh^ lumen, and a large TicBmatosalfinx is produced. In most cases the double condition obtains, i.e. part of the blood is poured into the pelvis and part is retained in the tube. Intratubal rupture (tubal abortion), either primary, or secondary to intramural rupture, is the commonest termination of tubal pregnancy.