CHRONIC ENLARGEMENT 911 Radical treatment, consisting of removal of the entire prostate v.'ith the vesiculse seminales, has been attempted with some measure of success, but is only appropriate in a minority of cases—those in which tuberculosis is not advanced in other organs, but is primarily localized to the prostate. If an abscess forms, it should be opened from the perineum, the walls thoroughly scraped to eradicate the disease, and the cavity injected with iodoform emulsion. Fistulae should be treated by thorough curetting. Tlie prognosis of this operation is not good, fistulae usually remaining. CHRONIC ENLARGEMENT Pathology.—The pathology of the increase in volume and altera- tion in shape of the prostate that occurs so frequently after middle life is not finally settled, so that the term chronic enlargement is to be preferred to another term which would imply a more exact patho- logical condition. From histological examination alone authors have differentiated (a) a diffuse fibro-myomatous overgrowth (myomatosis), (h) a form with multifile localized fibro-myomas, (c) a dift'use adeno- matous overgrowth, (d) a form with localized adenomas ; but there is much evidence that these variations are merely stages of the same pathological change. Etiology.—The cause of clironic enlargement of the prostate is quite unloiown, but the following theories have been held :— 1. The disease is a new formation either of fibro-myomas, similar to those in the uterus, or of fibro-adenomas. 2. It is a part of a general arterio-sclerosis, or of a localized arterio- sclerosis affecting the urinary organs. 3. It is an inflammatory hyperplasia of the elements of the gland due to alcoholism, sexual excess, constipation, sedentary life, etc. 4. It is a terminal result of chronic gonorrhoeal inflammation of the gland. But none of these theories is satisfactory, and it is best at present to consider the condition as a chronic enlargement of the prostate occurring for unlmown reasons in men after the age of 50. Cases, however, have been known before tliis age. Enlargement of the j^rostate is of no more intrinsic importance than a lipoma of the shoulder ; its seriousness depends upon the inter- ference with the act of micturition, due to the position of the gland at the outlet of the bladder. Condition of the prostate.—The prostate, if normal, weighs about 20 grm., but when chronically enlarged has been found to weigh as much as 250 grm., or more; it maj^ be enlarged as a whole or in parts, and the enlargement may be symmetrical or asymmetrical.