688 RECTUM AND ANAL CANAL the anal margin. The external orifice is near the anus, and the track is seldom more than in. in length. Since the fistula is so super- ficial, the discharge so slight, and the inner opening not really into the lumen of the bowel but at the anal margin, and free from the entry of faeces, there is no tendency to the purulent accumula- tions and burrowing of the pus which so frequently occur in the deeper fistulse. The external opening is, therefore, practically always single. The fistula may be situated anywhere around the anus, but is very frequently located posteriorly. The track may pursue a straight or slightly curved course. The s y m p- toms of a super- ficial fistula are slight. Pain is acute before the abscess is emptied, but as there is no tendency to bur- rowing, it is prac- tically absent when the fistulous track is established. The discharge is com- paratively little. Fig. 501.—^Section similar to that in Fig. 500, illustrating the positions of sinuses and fistulas. On" the left side are the superficial and intermuscular fistulas, and the The internal Orifice internal sinus opening into the bowel above the internal sphincter . j x j. J muscle. On the right is the internal sinus extending into the pelvi- IS CaSlly detected, rectal space and opening into the bowel between the sphincter muscles -i , i -fiofnlQ and above the levator ani muscle. For lettering, sec Fig. 500. and tne ILStUia readily permits the passage of a probe. The walls of a superficial fistula have been known to become completely epithelialized from the margins of the orifices. The treatment consists in laying the track completely open and allowing the wound to granulate. When the track passes between the superficial fibres of the external sphincter, this muscle must be completely divided at right angles to the direction of its fibres, in order to secure rest. The intermuscular fistula results from an ischio-rectal abscess. Spontaneous rupture of an ischio-rectal abscess will almost certainly lead to imperfect drainage, and the pus tends to burrow in various directions, and not infrequently towards the bowel. But even when drainage is timely and efiicient a fistula may form ; for the abscess originates from and may be in close proximity to a lesion, e.g. an ulcer, in the bowel, and, in fact, may communicate with the