INFARCTION OF THE SPLEEN 115 of the peritoneal cavity. Splenotomy with free drainage, if possible by an incision below the costal arch, or, after resection of a portion of a rib or ribs, below the level of the base of the lung, should bo adopted in most cases. If no adhesions exist between the spleen and the anterior abdominal wall, the greatest care must be taken to avoid infection of the general peritoneal cavity. Before the abscess is opened, the surrounding area must be carefully packed with gauze, and, when the pus has been evacuated, the abscess wall should be sutured to the parietes. Or the operation may, if the case is not urgent, be performed in two stages: after the spleen has been exposed and the abscess localized, the wound is packed until the spleen becomes adherent, and the abscess is not opened till about two days later. INFARCTS Infarction of the spleen consequent on infective endocarditis or some other general infection does not come within the scope of surgery. Occasionally infarction may follow thrombosis of the splenic or portal vein, and under such conditions the infarct may rupture and give rise to ha?morrhage or general peritonitis (Collins Warren). In the Museum of St. Bartholomew's Hospital there is a specimen (1914c') illustrating a chronic gastric ulcer in the cardiac region, with thrombosis of the splenic vein and an infarct of the spleen. The patient succumbed after severe hfematemesis. In this case the throm- bosis and infarction undoubtedly followed the ulceration, spreading from one of the gastric vessels which join the splenic vein. Throm- bosis of the splenic vein is not uncommonly met with in infarction of the spleen, and also in cases of torsion of the spleen, and may lead to severe hnematemesis. This is illustrated by a specimen (St. Bartholomew's Museum, 2271b) of a large pancreatic cyst which produced fatal hgematemesis owing to pressure on and subsequent thrombosis of the splenic vein. An infarcted spleen may rupture spontaneously or from slight violence. A case is recorded by Collins Warren of rupture of an infarcted spleen simulating an acute perforation of a gastric ulcer, for which laparotomy was performed. A quantity of blood was found in the peritoneal cavity, and a large rent in the spleen. The spleen was removed, but the patient succumbed. At the autopsy the portal and splenic veins were found thrombosed. Warren says : " It would seem highly probable tliat distension of the capsule nearly to the bursting-point by the cutting off of the egress of the blood by throm- bosis of the splenic vein had prepared the way for rupture of the capsule by sHght violence." Should an infarct of the spleen break down and result in an abscess it may require to be dealt with on the lines already laid down (p. 114).