392 THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM CARCINOMA OF THE DUODENUM Carcinoma of the duodenum is rare. Maydl and Schlesinger found that it represented 2 per cent, of the primary malignant growths of intestine. Fenwick states its comparative frequency as compared with carcinoma of the stomach as 1 to 20 ; but if anything this over-states the frequency. It is more common in men than in women (Fenwick, 37 men, 14 women), and is most common between the ages of 40 and 50. It may originate in a chronic ulcer ; according to Fenwick, at least 10 instances have been recorded. In 3 cases observed by Mayo, in one certainly and in another probably, it had its origin in this manner"; the third case was too far advanced t o enable any opinion to be given. In some cases it has been associated with gall-stones. It most frequently arises in the second part of the duodenum. In 41 cases collected by Rolleston, 24 had their origin here, 8 in the first part; while in 51 collected by Fenwick, 29 were in the second part, 11 in the first, 7 in the third. It may be secondary to carcinoma of the pancreas, of the gall-bladder or bile-ducts. The growth is usually cylindrical-celled, and has a constricting effect, like a similar growth elsewhere. When composed of spheroidal cells it forms a soft, flat mass or a deep fungating ulcer. Colloid degeneration may occur. Symptoms.—These vary with the portion of the duodenum involved. 1. In the supra-ampullary variety the symptoms resemble pyloric carcinoma and may very rarely follow those of chronic ulcer. Diag- nosis from pyloric carcinoma is impossible. A fixed or only slightly mobile tumour can usually be felt in the right hypochondrium. 2. Carcinoma in the peri-ampullary portion most often arises in the mucous membrane covering the biliary papilla. Usually, owing to the involvement of the papilla, jaundice is present (in 23 out of 25 of Matlrieu's cases) ; it is often intermittent, thus differing from that due to carcinoma of the head of the pancreas or of the common bile-duct. Painless jaundice is usually the first symptom, and is followed by gastric symptoms due to dilatation. The gall-bladder is usually distended, and occasionally a fixed tumour can be felt in the right hypochondrium near the middle line. (Plate 90.) Not infrequently infection and suppurative cholangitis occurs. 3. In the infra-ampullary cases the stomach and duodenum are dilated, and the symptoms resemble those of pyloric obstruction, but with one important difference, viz. that the vomit always contains bile and pancreatic juice. The latter can be demonstrated by the digestion of fibrin after a few grains of sodium bicarbonate have been added to the filtered vomit. Intermittent attacks of intestinal obstruction are also common.