CARCINOMA OF THE PENIS 975 should be removed with scissors and their bases cauterized. Absolute cleauUiiess and the careful treatment of any accompanying venereal disease are necessary to prevent their recurrence. Horns On the penis may arise in connexion with suppurating sebaceous cysts or papillomas. They are rare, but the diagnosis is obvious. Ulceration progressing to carcinoma may occur at the base of a horn. The treatment is comjilete removal. MALIGNANT GROWTHS Carcinoma This, the common form of malignant growth affecting the penis, may occur in one of two varieties. The more common is a squamous- celled carcinoma arising from the superficial epithelium, the other variety being a glandular carcinoma springing from the few glands that are found near the corona, the glands of Tyson. The latter variety is said to be more malignant than the former. Etiology.—The disease is rare before the age of 40, most cases being seen in men of 50 to 70, and usually nearer the latter age. It is predisposed to by phimosis, congenital or acquired, want of cleanliness, venereal sores, papillomas and gummata of the penis. There is also a precancerous condition similar to that met with in the tongue, and called eczema of the glans, Paget's disease of the penis, and leucoplalda, but which is really a chronic superficial inflammation of the glans penis and under-surface of the prepuce. Tliis disease occurs in elderly men, and leads to acquired phimosis, with a tendency to hfemorrhage if the prepuce is forcibly retracted. The condition is recognized bv white patches (leucoplalda), which are found on the under-surface of the prepuce and on the glans penis, resembling the white patches of the tongue in clironic superficial glossitis. Raw red patches with a tendency to bleed may also be present. Carcinoma usually develops if the condition is neglected. Pathological anatomy and clinical features.—Car- cinoma of the penis usually starts as a warty growth on or just behind the glans penis. (Figs. 575, 576.) The growth has the usual indurated base and spreads rapidly over the glans, but ulceration does not occur early. The growth is at first limited to the surface of the penis by the fibrous capsules of the corpora cavernosa and the corpus spongiosum, but when it invades these it grows with great rapidity, destroying their structure and often enlarging the penis to three or four times its usual size. The urethra is not in- volved as a rule, and there is no obstruction to the passage of urine, but ulceration may occur behind the growth and a urinary fistula develop. (Fig. 577.) When ulceration occurs the growth