213 LINGUAL CARCINOMA 4. The disease is very early; the diagnosis may be doubtful, and glandular metastases are not obvious. The results of operative treatment up to tlie present have not been very encouraging, largely owing to the fact that the lymphatic spread has only recently been emphasized and appreciated. The trend of modern surgical opinion is towards a free removal of the tongue and a complete removal of the lymphatic areas that drain it. As a preliminary to any operative treatment, some effort should be made to get the mouth into as clean a state as possible. Absolute asepsis cannot be attained, but obviously carious teeth should be removed or filled, the others should be scaled, and a week may be spent in frequent irrigation of the oral cavity. The best solutions for this purpose are weak permanganate of potash, carbolic acid 1-100, bicarbonate of soda 30 gr. to the ounce, or peroxide of hydrogen 5 vols. I recommend carbolic acid ; it is cleanly and sedative, though slightly painful at first. A solution of bicarbonate of soda to alternate with the carbolic is distinctly useful, as it is a solvent of the mucus and allays acid fermentation better than do acid antiseptics. Similar solutions may be used after the operation. Formamint lozenges are valuable. I advise patients to brush the teeth three times a day, and to wash the mouth out well every hour or half-hour while they are in the house. At the same time it is not necessary to confine a patient to the house for the whole week ; he should be encouraged to go out and occupy his mind as far as possible with things around him. These days of waiting may be usefully employed in training him to the use of the nasal or stomach tube, and in accustoming him to swallow from the rubber tube attached to the " feeder." If the disease is advanced, the patient should rest in bed, and be fed with stimulating foods, strong soups, seme alcohol, and possibly nutrient enemas. If he is old and enfeebled, injections of glucose (6 per cent.) and normal saline should be given per rectum, one pint every four hours during the two days that precede the operation. Glucose, wlien so administered, has a powerful stimulating effect. I have had no experience of the use of antistreptococcic serum, and cannot appreciate its value unless it is known that the wound is infected with the particular group of streptococci from which the serum was prepared. The blind administration of these serums seems unscientific and unsatisfactory; it would be much better, in my opinion, to take a few cultures from the mouth beforehand, and to prepare a vaccine for any obvious growths of streptococci and staphylococci.