GALL-BLADDER AND BILE-DUCTS 746 been destroyed by the inflammation. Such a calculus, tightly grasped by the contracted and functionless gall-bladder, is apparently safely imprisoned, but it may be potent for evil, for, as a result of the slow contraction of the gall-bladder, the stone may be constantly pressed against the neighbouring viscus until it finally erodes through into the stomach or intestine. Thus, large calculi, capable of causing intestinal obstruction, may find their way into the bowel. (Plate 99, G, and Figs. 525 and 526.) Moreover, the resulting cicatrization and adhesions may produce pyloric obstruction or hour-glass stomach. When the obstruction is gradual, or the contents of the gall-bladder are not infected at the time of impaction, " hydrops " of the gall- bladder ensues, the viscus undergoing gradual distension with watery or sometimes inspissated jelly-like mucus, and its wall becoming thinned without inflammatory changes. (Fig. 527.) These greatly distended gall-bladders may give rise to little incon- venience, but th^y may be ruptured by violence, or may develop cholecystitis due to secondary infection (p. 741). A hydrops may also result from an acute obstruction with infection, the latter gradu- ally dying down, or lighting up from time to time, but always with lessened virulence. Sometimes relief of obstruction alternates with recurrences, and gives rise to an " intermittent hydrops." Gall-stones in the ducts.—Calculi either reach the ducts from the gall-bladder, after which they probably increase in size (Fig. 523, a), or they are formed in the ducts themselves. Commonly, they give rise to symptoms from obstruction, and to this infection may be superadded. Obstruction is due to the size of the stone, the resultant contrac- tion of the duct, and the associated inflammatory changes. It may be temporary, and simply lead to slight dilatation of the ducts above, which disappears with the passage of the stone into the duodenum. Or the stone may act like a ball valve, falling back into the dilated portion of the duct above, only to be forced down again at some future time. In each successive attack the ducts become more and more distended. The obstruction is seldom complete for long, and such a calculus may permit free passage of the bile, gaining increment by gradual deposition until it may reach the great size sometimes seen. (Fig. 523, a.) But the impaction, though rarely absolute, may be practically permanent; then the ducts above become uniformly dilated, to form large channels aU through the liver (Fig. 528), the common duct itself being sometimes as large as the small intestine if the dilatation is cylindrical, or like a huge cyst if it is saccular. When a stone is impacted near the lower end of the common duct it may dilate the orifice and escape into the intestine per vias naturales,