THE PANCREAS 764 INJURIES Though more rarely injured than the other viscera, the pancreas suffers slight traumatisms not infrequently. The injury may be penetrating, or, much oftener, subcutaneous, and, though commonly confined to the viscus, may be associated with lesions elsewhere. There may result extensive and perhaps fatal haemorrhage, or escape of juice with retroperitoneal inflamma- tion, or acute pancreatitis due to bruising. In slighter injuries the peritoneum covering the pancreas is often torn, and blood and pancreatic juice escape into the lesser sac, leading to the development of an inflammatory effusion or pseudo-cyst {.see p. 771) and the production of fat necrosis. Clinical features.—The symptoms vary with the severity of the trauma. In some cases there is profound shock or haemorrhage without localizing signs other than the site of the injury. In others, shock is less severe, and is accompanied by pain, vomiting, tenderness and rigidity of the upper abdomen, and the rapid accumulation of free fluid; in such a case, subsidence of symptoms and resolution may occur, or the development of local peritonitis or of pancreatitis may be indicated by increasing symptoms and a rising temperature and pulse-rate. Permanent recovery may ensue or temporary amelioration be followed by signs of an inflammatory effusion into the lesser sac. Glycosuria rarely occurs, but when present is of valuable diagnostic significance. Treatment must at first be expectant, unless there are evidences of severe internal haemorrhage. If the symptoms steadily become accentuated, while the tenderness and rigidity persist or a mass develops, operative inter- ference is necessary. The pancreas can best be exposed by tearing through either the gastro-hepatic omentum or the gastro-colic omentum. The object of the operation is (1) to stop haemorrhage, (2) to prevent leakage, and (3) to provide drainage. If the pancreas is found torn it may be possible to tie bleeding vessels, and then to suture the laceration—in this way a pancreas completely torn in two has been repaired. Bleeding having been stanched and any associated injury treated, a'l clots must be removed and the lesser sac either irrigated or thoroughly mopped out. A large rubber tube must be inserted and packed round with gauze to control hasmorrhage and to soak up escaping juice. In dealing with penetrating wounds, associated injuries, especially of the stomach, must be carefully sought. In some few cases, fluid with the charac- teristics of pancreatic juice has been removed from the chest in convalescence. PANCREATITIS Etiology.—Experimental injection of a variety of substances into the duct of Wirsung produces acute inflammation with haemor- rhages, and glycosuria, and, later, abscesses or chronic inflammation. In man, gall-stones frequently coexist with pancreatitis, while some- times possibly stones have been passed after causing the inflammation. When endeavouring to correlate these facts, Opie found that in 62 per cent, of subjects the termination of the bile-duct was so arranged that a small stone lodged there would dilate the ampulla and permit retrojection of bile into the pancreatic duct; this retrojected bile may have the same effect in producing pancreatitis as the various substances used experimentally.