ULCERATION 519 Treatment.—The abdomen is opened in the middle line below the iinibilifus, or in the right semilunar line, and if the patient's con- dition forbids the administration of a general ansesthetic, the operation can be done under local anaesthesia. The ca3cum is first identified and examined, and then the lower coils of the ileum. The perforation may only be revealed by removing adherent flakes of lymph, and, when it is found, it is closed by Lembert sutures and sealed by an omental graft. As multiple perforations are not uncommon, a thorough search should be made, and any suspicious area should be invaginated with a purse-string suture, and covered with an omental graft. When there is a patch of gangrene on the bowel, and the patient cannot tolerate immediate resection, the affected loop should be brought to the surface, and an artificial anus established. Cases have been recorded in which a second perforation occurred after the patient had recovered from an operation, and a second laparotomy was called for. Dysenteric Ulceration For a description of dysentery, the reader is referred to works on Medicine. Suflace it here to say that in the course of the disease extensive ulceration frequently occurs in the colon, particularly in the pelvic and descending portions. The typical dysenteric ulcer begins as a small yellow or grey erosion at the opening of one of the glands of the mucosa, and gradually spreads in the submucous layer, undermining the mucosa and eating into the muscular coat. The affected segment of bowel is studded over with such ulcers, which as they spread coalesce and may eventually cover a large area. The irritation causes the peritoneal coat to swell and form adhesions with surrounding structures, particularly with the omentum, wliich serves to prevent a generalized infection of the peritoneal cavity when per- foration occurs, as it frequently does. Localized suppuration in the subperitoneal or in the extraperitoneal tissue is not uncommon. Abscess of the liver is also a frequent complication. The contraction which occurs in the healing of these extensive ulcers often leads to considerable stenosis of the bowel—dysenteric stricture. Treatment.—When the disease does not yield to medical measures, surgical interference is indicated to secure rest for the colon, and to admit of the direct appHcation of remedial agents to the inflamed and ulcerated mucous membrane. This is best effected by performing appendicostomy. The fluids most frequently employed for irrigation are saline solution and weak solutions of the albuminous silver salts, such as protargol or argyrol, from 4 to 8 pints being used three times a day.