GASTRIC HERNIA 319 the lowest death-rate, is performed as follows : A V-shaped incision is made in the pylorus down to the mucosa ; the pylorus is then forcibly stretched by forceps introduced through a separate incision in the stomach wall, and the pyloric incision sewn up in a Y-shaped manner. No relapse has followed this operation. Some such operation as this should be performed when surgical intervention becomes necessary; if it be impossible, then gastro- jejunostomy should be done. HERNIA OF STOMACH The stomach in rare instances has been found in both congenital and acquired umbilical hernias, especially the former, in postoperative ventral hernias, and more rarely still as a content of the sac in inguinal and femoral hernias. It is, however, most often found in hernia of the diaphragm ; thus, in 59 cases collected by Lawford Kjnaggs, the stomach was present in almost all, but in only 9 cases was it the sole content. In most cases the condition is present at birth, and observed in infants who are stillborn or who do not survive long. In others the opening is congenital, but the protrusion of the stomach occurs later; in a few the opening is the result of accident. A part, usually the pyloric portion, or the whole of the stomach may be involved. In a few cases in which adult life has been reached, gastric symptoms, such as discomfort after food, flatulence, or even pain, are present and, if the patient is a middle-aged male, may lead to suspicion of a chronic gastric or duodenal ulcer ; in other cases, acute dilatation or volvulus of the stomach may supervene. It may be complicated by tetany, as in a case recorded by Russell Reynolds. It is a con- dition that should be borne in mind in obscure gastric cases. The position of the heart and the abnormal area of resonance will point to the correct diagnosis, which will be confirmed by X-ray examination after a bismuth meal. GASTROPTOSIS In this condition the stomach is displaced downwards, alone, or more usually in association with the right kidney, or all the abdominal viscera. It is commonly met with in women, and may cause symptoms owing to its interference with the motor power of the stomach. Etiology.—The principal factor in the production of gastroptosis is loss of tone in the abdominal muscles, which may be due to many causes. In the few cases in which the stomach alone is prolapsed the condition may be congenital, or perhaps is sometimes secondary to atonic dilatation of the stomach. ■