548 THE APPENDIX The symptoms of this form of acute appendicitis are therefore those of diffuse peritonitis {see p. 567), either of sudden and unexpected onset, added to those of a pre-existing acute appendicitis, with or without periappendicular abscess. Diagnosis of acute forms of appendicitis.—The diag- nosis of an ordinary attack of acute appendicitis presents little diffi- culty, nor, as a rule, do the history, symptoms, and physical signs of the cases comphcated by gross peritoneal infection leave much room for doubt as to the nature of the illness. In the less acute cases the difficulty is greater, particularly as there is a growing tendency to ascribe, often on slender evidence, vague abdominal symptoms of all kinds to pathological conditions of the appendix. The diagnosis embraces two distinct considerations, namely, the discrimination of appendicitis from other conditions, and the recogni- tion of the stage and severity of the appendicitis. 1. Acute appendicitis may be simulated by— (a) Pelvic causes.—Salpingitis, pyosalpinx, ruptured tubal preg- nancy, and inflammation or the twisting of the pedicle of a small ovarian cyst, are to be eliminated by the history, together with a careful bimanual examination of the pelvis. At the same time, the possibility of associated pelvic and appendicular disease must not be overlooked. (b) Benal causes.'—Movable kidney with Dietl's crises, renal cal- culus, and ureteral calculus, all may give rise to symptoms resembling acute or subacute appendicitis. The character and position of the pain, the absence of fever and of constipation, the examination of the urine, and X-ray investigation should serve to eliminate these sources of error. (c) Hepatic causes, such as cholecystitis and cholelithiasis, can generally be distinguished by the position of the tenderness, a history or the presence of jaundice, and the radiation of the pain to the shoulder. Disease of a subhepatic appendix may simulate affections of the gall-bladder very closely, and, on the other hand, a large, tender, low-lying gall-bladder has been mistaken for an appendix abscess. (d) Gastric and duodenal ulcer are to be excluded by inquiry into the relation of pain to ingestion of food, and the absence of epigastric tenderness, melsena, hsematemesis, and gastric dilatation. (e) The onset of pneumonia and of pleurisy occasionally mimics appendicitis by causing acute abdominal pain and rigidity. A care- ful examination of the chest should prevent error in such cases. 2. Diagnosis of the severity and degree of the appen- dicitis.—At the onset there is no means of telling whether the attack is one which will run a mild course and subside spontaneously, or