675 HAEMORRHOIDS normal rugfe ; the recurrence of this process induces chronic inflam- matory tissue change, and therefore the formation of redundant folds. Should the perianal veins be also dilated, these will tend to increase the size of the folds. The enlargement of the perianal folds hinders the proper cleansing of the skin after defsecation, and there- fore predisposes to additional excoriation of the skin in the crevices, from which a further infection or even a true fissure may arise. Hence the condition, when once established, is always liable to become aggravated. Symptoms.—mere redundancy of the perianal folds gives rise to few symptoms. The repeated attacks of inflammation are accom- panied by pain, especially during defascation, and hence the patient refrains from the act as long as possible. Difficulty in thoroughly cleans- ing the parts after defsecation may cause pruritus ani (p. 727), and the frequent rubbing to relieve this symptom will aggravate the condition. Treatment.—The first care is to treat efficiently the constipa- tion. After defaecation the anus should be thoroughly cleansed with water, dried, and then washed with oil. A soothing ointment or powder—e.g. bismuth or zinc combined with starch—should be applied. Should this fail to relieve, operative measures are indicated. A general anajsthetic is necessary. About two-thirds of the redundant fold is removed, leaving sufficient of the base to allow the sides to fall together. Each cutaneous pile may be thus removed without fear of stricture. As in all operations in this region, complete bodily rest should be enforced until the wound has healed, otherwise troublesome fissures or idcerations may develop. 4. The True External Pile In this condition there is a tumour (rarely more than one) at the anal margin. It is composed of dilated veins and hypertrophied connective tissue, the result of repeated irritation. Thrombosis may occur in the veins. In the absence of acute inflammation, symptoms are slight, and are similar to those of the foregoing variety. When inflammation is present, acute pain and spasmodic contractions of the external sphincter render the condition very distressing. Not infrequently a fissure may develop at the base of the pile. The treatment in all cases is removal. Sufficient of the skin covering the base of each tumour should be retained to allow the sides to fall together so that undue contraction may be avoided. Internal Piles These consist primarily of a dilatation of the radicles of the supe- rior haemorrhoidal vein, and secondarily of connective-tissue increase in