ACUTE DIFFUSE PERITONITIS 567 4. Acute Gonococcal Peritonitis Acute diffused gonococcal peritonitis is occasionally met with The organism reaches the peritoneum either through the open mouth of a Fallopian tube, or by leakage from or rupture of a pyosalpinx. It does not readily affect the peritoneum, and when it does so is apt to produce a form of peritonitis which, although sometimes of sudden or acute onset, usually runs a mild and favourable course, and is un- accompanied by intestinal distension. The exudate is scanty, usually clear or only very slightly turbid, and distinctly viscid. Cover-slip preparations occasionally show intracellular diplococci. 5. Other Forms of Acute Peritonitis The organisms more rarely found in acute diffuse peritonitis are B. fyocyaymis, Staphylococotis fyogenes aureus and other forms of pyogenetic staphylococci, and B. typhosus. The last-named may reach the peritoneum from a suppurating mesenteric gland (Korte), and per- haps from the intestine without perforation. The peritonitis result- ing from perforation of a typhoid ulcer is a mixed infection, the colon bacillus predominating. Veillon and Zuber have described certain anaerobic organisms as occurring in peritonitis, as also have Tavel and Lanz. Dudgeon and Sargent only once found an anaerobic organism, namely, the B. aerogenes ca/psulatus, and consider that anaerobes do not play an important part in peritonitis. Symptoms of acute diffuse peritonitis.—The clinical history and symptoms of the disease or injury which has allowed the infection to reach the peritoneum are dealt with elsewhere. In the later stages the peritoneal symptoms so overshadow those of the original lesion that in the majority of cases its nature can only be ascertained by the operation which the peritonitis makes imperative. The onset is often sudden, or at least rapid, and is accompanied by abdominal pain. At first diffuse, the pain may, after a short time, become sufficiently localized to be of diagnostic value ; later, again, it becomes generalized over the whole abdomen. Vomiting is a symptom which is rarely absent. It is persistent, and accompanied by nausea and straining, differing in these respects from the vomiting of intestinal obstruction. The vomitus is commonly green in colour, and does not become fseculent. The occurrence of "black vomit" is one of the most serious symptoms in a bad case of peritonitis. Constipation is present from the outset, and becomes more marked with the progressive paralysis of the intestine. The tongue, at first furred and moist, soon becomes dry and brown. The temperature affords little information. At the onset it may