OPERATIONS FOR STRANGULATED HERNIA 649 and its colour and smell noted. If it be turbid, blood-stained, or fseculent, care should be observed in handling the bowel, since such signs point to ulceration at the point of constriction ; no attempt should be made as yet to draw down the bowel for inspection, in view of this jDOSsibiUty. The sac is opened to the neck, and the colour and surface of the bowel or of the omentum must be noted. The bowel must now be released by division of the constriction, the method depending on the variety of hernia. In incjuinal hernia.—If the hernia is an oblique one, a Cooper's hernia director is passed along between the bowel and the neck of the sac, so that its groove faces the anterior superior spine ; the hernia knife is passed along it on the flat, and the back of the knife being turned into the groove, the two instruments are pushed along together, their handles more or less widely separated according to the depth of incision required. In this way the neck of the sac is divided upivards and outwards so as to avoid the deep epigastric vessels which lie along its inner side. If the hernia is a direct one, the incision must be made ufwards and inwards, the director being passed along the imier aspect of the bowel. In spite of the width of the director, bowel will at times tend to overlap its edges, especially in wide-necked sacs with much bowel ; the greatest care must be taken in these cases not to injure the latter. In femoral hernia.—Here the structure to be divided is Gim- bernat's ligament, which lies just internally to the neck of the sac. In doing this the occasional peculiar origin of the obturator artery from the deep epigastric must be remembered. This vessel should arise from the anterior branch of the internal iliac artery, giving off, just before it enters the foramen, the little pubic branch which anasto- moses with the pubic branch of tlie deep epigastric. Occasionally this branch may be so large, and the obturator itself so small, that the latter may be said to arise from the deep epigastric. In this case the vessel will be found to occupy one of three positions : {a) It may lie at some distance internally to the sac ; {h) it may cross the posterior aspect of Gimbernat's ligament; or (c) it may closely follow its external margin, hugging the neck of the sac. In the last position it would almost certainly be divided in the act of incising the con- striction. Statistics as to the frequency of this accident do not help to prevent its occurrence ; the constriction must be divided, and if by chance the accident should happen, three courses are open to the surgeon : (a) The bowel being returned, an effort may be made to catch the vessel in the womid—a very difficult matter owing to the narrowness and depth of the latter. (6) The deep epigastric may be tied; this may fail owing to the free collateral circulation here. (c) The t}'ing of the deep epigastric may be supplemented by ligature