374 THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM Subphrenic abscess (see also p. 572) is most commonly caused by perforation of a gastric or duodenal ulcer. Of 76 cases recorded by Barnard, it was due to this cause in 26, the ulcer being gastric in 21 and duodenal in 5 cases. The fossa affected is usually the left anterior intraperitoneal (Barnard). This fossa is bounded above by the diaphragm, below and to the right by the left lobe of the liver, on the left by the spleen, and below by adhesions of the omentum to the abdominal wall (Fig. 381). Signs of interference with the base of the left lung are usually present. An abdominal swelling can be re- cognized occupying a triangular area limited by the costal margin on the outer side, and by a line convex to the right joining the umbilicus to the ensiform and the ensiform to the costal margin. Gas is usually present, giving rise to resonance at the upper part of the swelling (Fig. 381). When the perforation is at the pylorus or in the duodenum the right anterior intraperitoneal space may be affected (Fig. 382). Of 27 ab- scesses of this type, 4 were the result of perforation of a gastric and 2 of the perforation of a duodenal ulcer. This fossa is situated between the diaphragm above, the right lobe of the liver below, and the falciform ligament to the left. The right posterior fossa (subhepatic fossa, right renal fossa) is rarely affected. Of 10 abscesses in this situation, 1 was due to a gastric and 1 to a duodenal ulcer. Barely the abscess involves the lesser sac (left posterior intraperi- toneal, Barnard); of 3 cases of this nature it was due to perforated gastric ulcer in 2, but the lesser sac was not affected alone. The abscess may burst spontaneously into a bronchus, into the pleura, with the formation of a pyopneumothorax, into the stomach or intestine, or, rarely, through the skin. Treatment.—If the presence of pus beneath the diaphragm is suspected, careful exploration under an anaesthetic must be undertaken. An exploring syringe having a needle 3 in. long should be used. As recommended by Barnard, search should first be made in the scapular line, from the 10th space to the 6th. If no pus is found here, the spaces in the mid-axillary line should be similarly explored. When Fig. 382.—Diagram to illus- trate abscess in right an- terior intraperitoneal fossa. (^Barnard.)