463 INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION pease-brose, or vegetables, wMcli leave a considerable residue. In the case of such bodies as tooth-plates, small lockets, or other objects with hooks or projections, it has been found useful to naix with the food a moderate quantity of chopped-up string, which, by the churning action of the stomach, is wound round the projections and prevents them catching on the mucous membrane. In the great majority of cases, there is no call to operate, unless serious symptoms develop. If a sldagram is taken to locate the foreign body and operation is decided upon, this should be done at once, as the body may change its position if there is any delay. INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION ^ The term " intestinal obstruction " is a purely clinical one, and implies an interference with the passage of the bowel contents along the canal. The extent of the arrest varies widely, from a slight diffi- culty in obtaining a regular evacuation to sudden and complete arrest of the passage of fseces and flatus. The primary cause of the obstruction is usually mechanical, and several different mechanisms may be responsible. For example, the lumen may be gradually narrowed by cicatricial contraction, resulting in a variable degree of stenosis or stricture ; the bowel may be blocked by a tumour of the wall gradually filling it up ; or one segment of bowel may be invaginated into another, as in intussusception. When due to such causes the obstruction is incomplete but progressive. Again, a loop of bowel may be twisted on its mesenteric axis, as in volvulus ; or be snared by a fibrous band, the margins of an aperture in the mesentery, or the neck of a hernial sac. Under these conditions, not only is the lumen immediately occluded, and the obstruction at once rendered complete, but the blood-vessels of the segment implicated are also occluded, and the nerve supply interfered with, so that the vitaHty of the bowel is endangered. To this condition, the term " strangulation " is appHed. Whatever the mechanical cause may be, sooner or later the nerve mechanism governing the peristaltic action of the bowel is interfered with, and a paralytic factor comes into play, adding to the difficulty the bowel has in emptying itself. In certain forms of obstruction, notably that associated with generahzed peritonitis, the cause is inherent in the bowel itself, con- sisting in a loss of muscular contractility—pamlytic obstruction. It is convenient to classify cases of obstruction of the bowel under the headings—(1) Acute or Sudden Obstruction; (2) Chronic or Gradual Obstruction ; and (3) Chronic Obstruction becoming Acute. ^ I desire here to exj)rcss my indebtedness to the writings of the lato H. L. Barnard.