133 TREATMENT OF HARE-LIP •cleft is large, natural feeding can, and should, be carried out by means of a glass nipple-shield to which is fitted a large rubber teat that fills the gap in the lip. After the operation the child should still be fed with maternal milk, drawn off with a pump, until such time as it can be put to the breast again. In cases of bilateral cleft, natural feeding is, of course, impossible. In such circumstances the child must be spoon-fed, and operated upon as soon as the surgeon judges that its condition will permit; after- wards it can be brought up on the bottle in the usual manner. Another reason for operating on bilateral hare-lip at an early age is the urgent necessity of replacing the premaxilla, and counteracting its forward growth by the pressure which is brought to bear upon it by the united lip. It is surprising what a marked effect this pro- cedure has in inhibiting the prognathic tendency, especially if the mother or nurse be instructed to assist it by frequently and regularly applying pressure until the protrusion is reduced. When hare-lip coexists with cleft palate, and when the early operation upon the palate (Lane's or Brophy's) is contemplated, the closure of the gap in the lip must be deferred until healing of the palate is complete. As the ultimate appearance of the lip will depend in great measure upon the neatness of the scar, it is of the utmost importance that primary union should be secured. In order to attain this desirable end, no operation sliould be undertaken until the child is in a satisfactory state of health, and the mouth, the nose, and the aural cavities liave been examined and foimd to be free from any septic condition. Preparation for the operation.—When the surgeon has to deal with a liealthy, well-nourished infant, no special preparation is necessary, other than the administration of a small dose of castor oil two days beforehand ; in fact, the less the normal routine and surroundings of the child are disturbed, the better it will bear the operation. But when the infant is peevish, ill-nourished, and the subject of gastro-intestinal catarrli from improper feeding, the opera- tion may have to be delayed for a month or longer. If the child is l)eing suckled and does not thrive as well as it should do, it must I'ither be weaned at once or its nourishment augmented by two or more bottle-feeds daily. Though the quality and quantity of a feed must be varied to a slight extent for difEerent babies, the following formula is a very useful one on wliicli to base its composition :—- At tioo mon'hi Milk Whey Cream Sugar 3U 51 1 eggspoonful