540 THE APPENDIX stretches across the abdomen and lies partly upon the left iliac fossa. Similarly it may become pulled upon, elongated, and displaced by any coil of small intestine to which it may have become adherent. Just as mesenteric abnormalities permit of the appendix being found in many abnormal positions within the abdomen, so they also allow of its appearance in hernial sacs, and the organ has often been found in right-sided femoral and inguinal hernias ; less often in um- bilical and in left-sided femoral and inguinal hernias. It may be found either alone or in company with other viscera. In the rare instances of transposition of viscera, the caecum and appendix are found in the left iliac fossa, but with their relations to one another and to other viscera otherwise unaltered. APPENDICITIS Etiology.—Appendicitis is a disease essentially dependent upon bacterial activity, which may be brought about or contributed to by a number of subsidiary causes. Bacteriology.—The great majority of cases of appendicitis are caused by the Bacillus coli {see Peritonitis, p. 565). Other organisms have from time to time been found in or around an inflamed appendix, such as the Pneumococcus (J. Eyre), the pathogenetic staphylococci (Tavel and Lanz), the Streptococcus pyogenes (Gushing), certain anaerobes (Veillon and Zuber), and the Bacillus pyocyaneus (Dudgeon and Sargent) ; and whilst it must be admitted that any of these organisms may be occasional causes of the disease, yet there is no doubt that the colon bacillus is by far the most frequent causal agent (Dudgeon and Sargent). Accessory causes.—Age is a most important factor in the inci- dence of appendicitis, and its greater frequency in young adult life is probably related to the maximum development of the lymphoid tissue which is noted at that period. The disease is rare in infancy and becomes increasingly frequent between the ages of 10 and 20, when the maximum is reached ; from 20 to 30 the age-incidence falls but little ; whilst from 30 to 40 the diminution is considerable ; after 40 it becomes less and less frequent, until in old age it is as rare as in infancy. Sex can scarcely be cited as a cause, for there is no obvious reason, anatomical or pathological, why the disease should occur more often in one sex than in the other. Yet it is a fact that all large series of cases show a distinct preponderance of males, the proportion of males to females being variously estimated as lying between 2 to 1 and 3 to 1. Heredity.—There is some reason for thinking that the tendency to appendicitis runs in families. If this is so it may perhaps be ascribed to similarity of anatomical conformation favouring the disease, to