TUBAL PREGNANCY: DIAGNOSIS 1061 'tion lias not long occurred tlie history of an apparent pregnancy terminating in spurious labour will at once indicate the nature of the mass felt. After many years, however, the history may be in- definite, and diagnosis then is difficult or impossible. Most of these cases present themselves because of suppuration round the sac, and in some the extrusion of fretal bones through the sinuses formed will elucidate the nature of the condition. In others it can only be decided by operation. Diagnosis.—Acute intraperitoneal rupture of the primary gestation sac may be mistaken for perforation of a gastric or intestinal ulcer, fulminant appendicitis, volvulus and other forms of acutest intestinal obstruction, rupture of a solitary ovarian abscess or ovarian blood cyst, or acute torsion of an ovarian or uterine tumour. In all these catastrophes the striking feature is tlie suddenness of onset of the symptoms. The two chief points that distinguish acute tubal rupture are the history of preceding amenorrhoea and the signs of internal hasmorrhage, as compared with the signs of shock which characterize most of the other disasters mentioned. Rupture of an ovarian blood cyst or severe hemorrhage from dehiscence of a Graafian follicle produces symptoms indistinguishable from acute rupture of a tubal gestation, but the history of amenorrhcea is wanting. Torsion of an ovarian cyst may cause profuse intracystic bleeding, but the presence of a tumour from the outset distinguishes it from the ruptured gestation, in which a mass is only formed after a day or two. The symptoms of intratubal rupture (tubal abortion), which are often preceded by those of intramural rupture (the formation of a tubal mole), are more likely to be mistaken for salpingitis and pelvic peritonitis, for inflammation or subacute torsion of an ovarian cyst, for subacute appendicitis, or for abortion of an intra-uterine gestation. The recurring attacks of acute pain often associated with a bloody uterine discharge, and sometimes with the passage of a cast, are classic- ally associated with tubal gestation. The history of preceding amenorrhcea is an important diagnostic feature, for though suppression of a period may occur with acute salpingitis, and particularly with tubo-ovarian abscess, this follows the onset of the symptoms. The mass formed by a ha^matosalpinx and ha^matocele is a con- glomerate like that of acute salpingitis—substituting blood for pus— and in neither of them does it appear at once. That of tubal gesta- tion is, however, less tender, and fever, if present, is a late develop- ment, whereas in salpingitis it is one of the earliest signs. The patient undergoing a tubal abortion is more or less pallid, and gives a history I of fainting attacks with the spasms of pain, while the size of the mass