RECTAL STRICTURE 705 consists of small, hard, isolated fragments. There are periods of days together when no motion may be passed. If the stricture is low down, near the anal margin, e.g. the congenital stricture, or that following operations upon the anal canal, the motion may sometimes be flat- tened or ribbon-shaped. This is unusual (p. 664). Since ulceration is so commonly present, the passage of blood, pus, and mucus is more or less constant. Even if ulceration be absent, the irritation of fseces retained above the stricture will excite a catarrh of the bowel, shown by the passage of mucus, and perhaps blood. The patients complain of diarrhoea—the spurious diarrhoea of proctitis or ulceration. Sooner or later, symptoms of intestinal obstruction appear—i.e. flatulent dis- tension, probably aggravated by food; unpleasant rumblings of wind in the bowels, accompanied by colicky peristaltic pains ; and an increasing demand for purgatives to obtain an action of the bowels. Later, if the stricture be allowed to progress, the compensation of the colon, taxed to its utmost, fails : distension progresses, and the obstruction terminates acutely or subacutely (p. 719). The colon, filled with the contents of the small bowel and its own secretion and gases, is distended so greatly that its circulation is impeded, and infection of its walls results. Local infective necrosis of its wall may occur, and acute perforative peritonitis follow. The perforation will usually be low in the pelvic colon, where distension is greatest and bacterial life most rampant, but it may be, as in any case of colonic obstruction, in the csecum. The diagnosis is readily made by digital and, if necessary, by careful sigmoidoscopic examination. Occasionally difficulty may arise in differentiating the simple from the malignant stricture. In simjjle fibrous contraction there cannot be doubt, but where there is narrowing of the bowel associated with irregular polypoid masses projecting into its lumen the similarity to cancer is sometimes very great. In the simple disease there will be a long history of ulceration of the bowel, probably commencing at an age when malignant disease is unusual. The polypoid masses have not the characteristically hard and irregular surface of a carcinoma. If doubt exists, a portion of the edge of the tliickening should be submitted to microscopy. The treatment varies with the site and extent of the stricture, and with the presence or absence of ulceration. Dilatation.—Strictures situated in the anal canal, e.g. the con- genital form and those following operations upon the anal canal, may be treated satisfactorily by dilatation with Hegar's dilators. Before dilatation, if the stricture is very firm, it may be advisable to incise it at four points situated at the extremities of two diameters at right angles to one another. Dilatation will have to be maintained for some time, perhaps during the rest of life. Simple strictures of the ■2i