THE INTESTINES 468 of a single loop of bowel is of no value in localizing the seat of the obstruction. In primary acute obstruction, peristaltic waves are seldom visible, unless the patient is extremely emaciated. In the acute phase of a gradually in6reasing obstruction, they are often prominent and of diagnostic value. Except in cases of intussusception, or of obstruction by foreign bodies or fsecal concretions, a localized tumour can rarely be palpated in the abdomen. Differential diagnosis.—The initial symptoms of acute in- testinal obstruction so closely resemble those of other acute abdo- minal conditions that it may be extremely difficult to distinguish between them. Among the possibilities that have to be considered at this stage are : (1) Acute appendicitis, (2) perforation of a gastric or duodenal ulcer, (3) rupture of a pyosalpinx or extra-uterine gesta- tion, (4) rotation of the pedicle of an ovarian or uterine tumour, (5) acute pancreatitis, (6) embolism or thrombosis of the mesenteric vessels, (7) various forms of colic—biliary, renal, or intestinal. By the time the symptoms characteristic of interference with the passage of the intestinal contents come to predominate, it is usually possible to exclude most of these conditions, and the question left for decision is the cause of the obstruction. A consideration of all the available clinical data may enable a correct opinion to be formed in many cases, but in others it is impossible to do more than make an intelligent guess as to the cause of the symptoms. In the infant, the most likely causes are : (1) Strangulated external hernia, (2) intussusception, (3) one or other form of retroperitoneal hernia, (4) congenital abnormahties of the rectum or intestine. In the child over two years of age, the possibilities are: (1) Strangu- lated external hernia, (2) intussusception, (3) strangulation by Meckel's diverticulum, (4) strangulation by bands or adhesions, particularly if there is a history of tuberculous peritonitis, appen- dicitis, injury, or a previous operation; (5) retroperitoneal hernia. In the adult, (1) strangulated external hernia, (2) volvulus, (3) strangulation by bands or through apertures, (4) retroperitoneal hernia, (5) impaction of a gall-stone or a fsecal concretion, and (6) pressure of tumours external to the bowel, are among the primary causes of acute obstruction. It is possible that a gradual narrowing of the bowel by cicatricial contraction or by the growth of a malignant tumour may culminate in complete obstruction without any pre- monitory signs of stenosis. In the aged, acute obstruction is usually due to (1) sudden blockage of the narrowed lumen in maHgnant disease of the colon, (2) strangulated external hernia, (3) intussusception, or (4) fsecal accumulation.