475 DUODENAL HERNIA arc (1) at tlie termination of the duodenum ; (2) in the vicinity of the ca:'cum and appendix ; (3) in the mesentery of the pelvic colon. Hernia into the foramen of Winslow, and diaphragmatic hernia, although not strictly retroperitoneal, are for convenience included in this section. Duodenal Hernia Numerous fossce have been described in relation with the duodeno- jejunal junction. The most important for our present purpose is the paraduodenal fossa, which is situated on the left side of the ascend- ing portion of the duodenum. Its left border is formed by the inferior mesenteric vein and its right by the duodeno-jejunal flexure. Its orifice looks downwards and to the right, its blind extremity being directed upwards and to the left. Into this fossa, the left form of ducdenal hernia passes, and as it increases in size it extends down behind the transverse and descending colon. The next most important is the mesenterico-parietal fossa. This lies in the mesentery of the jejunum, immediately below the duodenum and behind the superior mesenteric artery, which forms its anterior Vioundary. Its orifice looks to the left, and its base downwards and to the right, and into it the right foim of duodenal hernia passes, extending down behind the transverse and ascending colon. Clinical features.—Duodenal hernia has been met with at all ages ; some of the recorded cases have occurred in infants. Its presence is never suspected unless strangulation has occurred, and even then, in the vast majority of cases, the cause of the obstruction has only been discovered on opening the abdomen. The symptoms that may suggest the presence of a duodenal hernia are long-continued dyspepsia and irregularity of the bowels with colicky pains, and the presence of a circumscribed globular swelling, resembling a movable cyst, except that it is resonant on percussion and yields intestinal sounds on auscultation. Owing to the com- pression of the inferior mesenteric vein at the neck of the fossa, the patient usually suffers from piles, which bleed freely. AVhen strangulation ensues, all the symptoms of acute obstruction are present, and as it is usually the first part of the jejunum that is implicated, profound shock and persistent vomiting are prominent symptoms. Treatment.—When, on opening the abdomen in a case of obstruction, the cause is found to be a strangulated duodenal hernia, the bowel must be withdrawn from the fossa without dividing the neck of the sac, in which runs the inferior mesenteric vein or the superior mesenteric artery. An attempt should be made to close the opening into the fossa by suturing its margins, and so prevent re- currence of the hernia.