HERNIA 6io which consists in the development of lateral diverticula in, or even of a complete congenital displacement of the whole sac into, the planes of the abdominal wall. Such hernias are known as interstitial or interparietal, and are in more than half the cases in association with maldevelopment or arrested descent of the testis (Fig. 455). The following are the varieties most commonly met with, in the order of frequency :— 1. Patent processus vaginalis in scrotum, with lateral diverticulum lying between— (a) Peritoneum and transversalis fascia (properitoneal). {b) Internal oblique muscle and external oblique aponeurosis. (c) Transversalis fascia and muscle. (d) Peritoneum and iliacus fascia (retroperitoneal). 2. Processus vaginalis absent from scrotum and sac found lying between—• (a) External oblique aponeurosis and skin. (b) Peritoneimi and iliacus fascia. Many variations of the above may be met with, and at times more than one diverticulum may be present. It is quite obvious that these hernias are all dependent upon some congenital abnormality. Their chief importance lies in the possibility of the lateral sac being overlooked in the performance of a radical operation ; in the chance of reduction being effected from one diver- ticulum into another ; and in the occurrence of strangulation in these diverticula. The intimate union of the transversalis with the internal oblique muscle renders the occurrence of a diverticulum between these muscles very rare, although such cases have been recorded. Interstitial hernia has been attributed to forcible and oft-repeated clumsy efforts at reduction ; this is a mistaken theory. Such attempts could only lead, where no diverticulum is present, to displacement of the whole sac, or rupture of its neck. These cases come under the heading of "Reduction en masse" (p. 645), and are not true inter- stitial hernias. The danger of strangulation in interstitial hernias is considerable, and only occasionally is their presence diagnosed before operation. Some bulging of the abdominal wall above and outside the internal abdominal ring may be noticed, or it may be possible to feel the diverticulum fill up, on reduction being effected from the scrotum ; this latter being then kept empty, the diverticulum may be detected by gurgling, or sudden emptying, on reduction of its contents being effected. The abnormalities which have been noted in association with these hernias are—(1) Retention, maldevelopment, and ectopia of the testis. (2) Absence of the cremaster muscle. (3) Superimposition of the abdo- minal rings. (4) Partial obliteration of the external abdominal ring.