lOOO THE UTERUS perhaps from tlie vulva like a polyp, is extremely tliin, and (2) the acquired elongations most commonly due to chronic hyperplastic cervicitis, but more rarely to the development of a myoma, a car- cinoma or sarcoma, or large cyst in the cervical wall. In these cases the vaginal cervix is enlarged in every dimension. Clinical features.—The congenital form may produce no symptoms and may be discovered accidentally. In the acquired variety the patient becomes aware of an abnormal mass filling the vagina or protruding from the orifice, and complains of a sense of dragging or bearing down. If cervicitis be present, there will be leu- corrhoea, pain in coitus, and occasional slight blood-stained discharges. Diagnosis.—The congenital form may be mistaken for a polyp, but inspection of the most dependent part of the protrusion will show the external os, and careful vaginal examination will clinch the diagnosis. General hypertrophy due to inflammation or new growth could only be mistaken for a tumour extruding through the external os, or for the body of a totally inverted uterus ; careful examination will not fail to distinguish it from these conditions. Treatment.—The congenital elongation should not be interfered with unless it causes annoyance or produces sterility; in such case it may be amputated circularly just below the vaginal vault. An acquired hypertrophy must be treated according to its cause. When it is due to cervicitis, circular amputation or tracheloplasty (p. 1011) may be performed ; when it is the result of new growth, the appropriate treatment must be carried out. PROLAPSE OF THE UTERUS Etiology—Rarely prolapse is present at birth, whilst occasion- ally it is met with in young virgins. In either case, the deformity is due to congenital deficiency of the sustentacular apparatus. In the vast proportion of cases, however, prolapse of the uterus is the result of childbearing. The structures fixing the uterus and vagina in their normal position may be divided into three groups :— 1. Upper supporting structures.—These constitute the upper part of the broad ligaments, and comprise the peritoneal folds, the ovarico- pelvic and ovarico-uterine Hgaments, the perivascular sheaths of the ovarian vessels and the round ligaments. Though the single elements have no great resisting power, yet taken en masse they form a support of considerable strength. 2. Middle supporting structures.—These consist of two pairs of fibro- cellular bands uniting the upper part of the vagina and supravaginal cervix to the sacrum and lateral pelvic walls respectively. The posterior pair, together with their covering peritoneum, form