HERNIA also occur at other points in the abdominal wall, but in this case they are invariably traumatic and are laiown as " lateral ventral hernias." Spontaneous hernia (median) is rarely seen except in asso- ciation with large umbilical hernias, where it is usually an extension dowmvards of the rupture, the lower segment of the umbilical ring having given way and the recti muscles having become separated. Above the umbilicus it is more often separate, and is sufficiently rare to suggest the possibiHty of a congenital origin ; and this is supported by the fact that it is not usually seen in stout patients, and is not, therefore, the direct result of distension. It is perhaps less rare in men than in women. The presence of subperitoneal lipomas has been noted in many instances, and is found to be a causative factor in some cases of ventral hernia, more especially of the median epigastric variety. Insinuating themselves into some shght deficiency in the transversalis fascia, or the fascia of the posterior sheath of the rectus muscle, these small tumours gradually expand the cavity which they have invaded, and by their traction at times draw after them the process of peritoneum to which they are attached. Thus a true hernial sac is formed. These hernias are also found occasionally in the linea semilunaris, and many femoral hernias probably owe their origin to the presence of the lipo- matous material in the crural canal. Complete median hernia results from wide separation of the recti muscles, and is more frequently seen in thin women who have borne many children than in those who are markedly obese; it is also seen in elderly men of feeble muscular development who have been subjected to hard manual labour. Although rarely suffi- ciently marked to require operative interference, it is none the less in the nature of a hernia, and may result in considerable weakness and bodily discomfort. It extends usually from the ensiform cartilage to the pubes, the actual extent being easily ascertained by making the patient raise the head and shoulders from the supine position without the support of the hands. The hernia will at once show as an elevated ridge along the linea alba, the actual gap being felt by passing the ulnar edge of the hand into it. It is probable that tliis condition originates in a congenital wideness of the linea alba, and is only aggravated by subsequent exertion, as many yoimg subjects are met with who exliibit wide separation without actual hernia. Adhesions, irreducibility, and strangulation are never met with in this form of hernia, although they occur in the epigastric variety. Hernia through scar tissue.—Space does not permit of a discussion of the pathology of these hernias, but the following points should be noted :—