THE PROSTATE 9o8 ACUTE PEOSTATITIS Acute prostatitis in the vast majority of cases follows gonorrhceal urethritis or urethritis due to instrumentation of the urethra, but it may occur occasionally in the course of one of the infectious fevers. The gonococcus enters the prostate through the prostatic ducts and initiates an acute inflammation, ending either in resolution, chronic prostatitis, or suppuration. (See Vol. I., pp. 808, 841.) CHEONIC PEOSTATITIS Chronic inflammation of the prostate is most frequently secondary to a chronic urethritis, usually gonococcal, but may follow an acute prostatitis. The condition is a very common sequel to gonorrhoea, and has far-reacliing consequences. The morbid anatomy shows a chronic suppuration occurring in the ducts of the prostate with interstitial fibrosis, the pus escaping into the urethra and appearing in the urine as comma- shaped white threads. It is one of the causes of gleet. The condition is discussed in Vol. I., p. 842. Fi<r «ft Q f t . . u PEOSTATIC CALCULI rig. 556.—bection of prostate, show- ing the corpora amylacea. It is important to distinguish two separate conditions which have been described under this term. They are (a) calculi in the pros- tatic urethra, (b) calculi in the prostate. The first are formed either in the kidney, the bladder, or locally in the prostatic urethra, and; becoming impacted, cause difficulty of micturition. They will not bi- further discussed here. Calculi of the second variety, the true pros tatic calcuH, are formed in the prostate itself. In every adult prostat small bodies known as corpora amylacea are found (Fig. 556), which consist of inspissated secretion, epithelial cells, and lecithin. They are multiple, and of a colour varying from light grey to black. These bodies are scarcely pathological, but become so when by in- filtration with lime salts they form prostatic calculi (Fig. 557). Stones in the prostate are therefore usually multiple, over a hun- dred having been met with in some cases, and are usually small, but they may weigh as much as 120 grm. They consist of phos- phate, oxalate, and carbonate of lime round an organic nucleus, and so give a good shadow with the X-rays. Symptoms.—Calculi may exist for years in the prostate, and only be discovered on autopsy. In some cases they are passed per