io8o THE PELVIC PERITONEUM THE PELVIC PERITONEUM AND CELLULAR TISSUE PELVIC PERITONITIS (PERIMETRITIS) Pelvic peritonitis is always secondary to inflammation of some of the pelvic organs. In the vast proportion of cases salpingitis is the primary cause, but occasionally this role is played by a solitary ovarian abscess, an infected ovarian or uterine tumour, a hsematocele, or an inflamed appendix situated in the pelvis. The symptoms and treatment of pelvic peritonitis, therefore, are those of the lesion to which it is secondary. PELVIC CELLULITIS (PARAMETRITIS) Infection of the pelvic cellular tissue is usually secondary to some lesion of the vagina, of the cervix or the body of the uterus. Thus, it is usually seen after labour or after operations upon the genital canal. Occasionally it is primary, as in cases of inflamed broad- ligament cyst, or suppuration round an intraligamentous lithopredion. In anterior cellulitis the inflammatory mass is situated between the cervix and vagina and the posterior wall and base of the bladder. In lateral cellulitis the infection usually follows the lymphatic tract that accompanies the uterine artery and vein, and thus involves the base of the broad ligament and the paravaginal tissue. It is commonest on the left side, because parturitional laceration most often affects that side of the cervix. Where the primary lesion is in the body of the uterus or the Fallopian tube, the lymphatic tract accompanying the ovarian vessels is affected, and the mass then lies much higher. In fosterior cellulitis the parts affected are the cellular tissue of the utero- sacral folds on either side of Douglas's pouch, and the substance of the recto-vaginal septum. The inflammation in this case invariably spreads behind the rectum, so that the gut is encircled by it. The liistological condition is one of lymphangitis and phlebitis, which may or may not suppurate. In the latter case the abscess may either (1) discharge spontaneously, above Poupart's ligament, or into the bladder, vagina, or rectum, or (2) become chronic and sequestered by fibrosis. Symptoms.—The onset is acute, with pain, tenderness, and fever. After a few days an indurated swelling is felt per vaginam, either in front of or behind the vagina, or extending outwards from the side of the uterus to the lateral pelvic wall as a buttress-like mass. In lateral cellulitis the swelling first appears on the abdomen as a tender induration rising above the inner third of Poupart's ligament and spreading outwards to the iliac fossa. Anterior cellulitis is less