ULCERS AFTER GASTRO-ENTEROSTOMY 517 ULCERATION OF THE INTESTINE It is important to distinguish between those cases in which uk'eration is an accompaniment or complication of such diseases of the bowel as tuberculosis, malignant disease, and chronic obstruction from entero- liths or fsecal accumulation, and those in which it is due to some specific cause, such as typhoid, dysentery, or infection with particular organisms. In the former group, the symptoms due to the ulcer arc superadded to, and cannot be distinguished from, those of the primary lesion, the treatment of which covers the treatment of the ulcer. In the latter group, the ulceration itself calls for treatment, or may lead to complications which bring the disease within the province of the surgeon. Peptic Ulcers following Gastro-Enterostomy ^ In a small proportion of cases of gastro-enterostomy, performed for non-malignant affections of the stomach, ulceration occurs at the site of the anastomosis—gastro-jejunal ulcer ; or in the jejunum a short distance from the opening—jejunal ulcer. The chief cause of the gastro-jejunal ulcer seems to be the hyper- acidity of the stomach contents, although Wilkie has shown experi- mentally that this alone is not sufficient to produce ulceration in intact mucous membranes. The other factors are the presence of a hsematoma, or the formation of granulation tissue at the site of the anastomosis, which usually persists for about a week after the operation, the irritation caused by unabsorbable sutures in the granulating area, and the passage of solid food over the raw surface during the healing process. The jejunal ulcer is probably due to the action of the acid contents of the stomach on the mucosa of the jejunum, whicli, under normal conditions, is exposed to an alkaline medium. The fact that peptic ulcers almost never occur after gastro- enterostomy performed for cancer of the stomach, in which there is a deficiency of acid in the contents, supports the view that hyper- acidity is an important factor in their causation in non-malignant cases. The prevention of these ulcers would seem to depend on securing rapid union of the apposed mucous surfaces by accurate suturing with an absorbable material such as catgut, on diminishing the acidity of the stomach contents or securing their neutralization by the bile and pancreatic secretions, and on careful dieting to diminish mechanical irritation of the healing surfaces. The posterior no-loop operation of gastro-enterostomy has seldom been followed by ulceration. The ulcer, which is usually single, is small and rounded, and ' See also ante, p. 414.