536 THE INTESTINES advisable to " mobilize " tbe segment to be dealt with, by dividing the reflection of the peritoneum on to the parietes and stripping it towards the middle line. In the great majority of cases, the patient is already sufiering from obstructive symptoms before the question of operation is raised, and the bowel is more or less distended above the stricture. When acute obstructive symptoms are present, it is seldom possible to locate the tumour, and the abdomen is best opened to the right of the middle line below the level of the umbilicus. Under these conditions, the resection should always be done by the " two-stage " method, the obstruction being relieved by opening and draining the distended bowel, and the growth removed at a later date. If it is possible at the first operation to bring the tumour out to the surface, this should be done, as it greatly facilitates the second stage of removal. The second stage should be carried through as soon as the bowel has been completely emptied and the patient has sufficiently recovered from the effects of the obstruction and the primary operation. This is usually in from three to seven days. If, after reheving the obstruction, it is found to be impossible to resect the growth, the patient may be saved the discomfort of a per- manent artificial anus and his life may be prolonged by entero-anasto- mosis, the bowel above and below the stricture being united. Sarcoma of the colon.—Sarcoma of the colon is a rare disease, and is usually met with in the caecum. It occurs in young subjects as a diffuse infiltration of the coats of the bowel, converting it into a rigid tube. The mucous membrane as a rule is tightly stretched over the tumour, which tends to grow towards the lumen of the bowel. Obstruction is not a common manifestation of the disease. As a rule, the disease is characterized by a general wealmess, loss of flesh, and the development of a rapidly growing abdominal swelling. If the disease is diagnosed early, the affected segment of bowel should be removed on the same lines as for carcinoma, and experience has shown that the results of early operation are on the whole satisfactory. BIBLIOGRAPHY Barnard, H. L., Contributions to Abdominal Surgery. 1910. Berry and Giuseppi, Proc. Boy. Soc. Med., Nov., 1908. Caird, F. M., Scot. Med. arid Surg. Journ., 1904, xiv. Goodall, Harry W., Boston Med. and Surg. Journ., April, 1910. Hartmann, Rev. de CMr., Feb., 1907. Keith, Artliur, Brit. Med. Journ., Feb. 5, 1910. Miles, Alexander, Edin. Med. Journ., 1910, i. Paterson, H. J., Proc. Boy. Soc. Med., June, 1909. Pavlov, The Work of the Digestive Glands, 2nd Edit. 1910. Proc. Boy. Soc. Med., 1909, pp. 59-99, Discussion in Med. Sec. on Ulcerative Colitis. Thomson, Alexis, Edin. Med. Journ., April, 1908. Wilkie, D, P. D., Edin. Med. Journ., 1909, ii., and Oct., 1910.