MAMMARY CANCER: PERMEATION 6i the degenerate cancer cells. Finally, the original lymphatic is replaced by a solid thread of fibrous tissue in which no cancer cells can be seen. This process may be called perilymphatic fibrosis. While it is taking place, cancer cells forced along the lymphatic capillaries may have originated nodular and apparently isolated deposits in the adjoining layers. The tendency of a carcinoma to drag in towards itself the sur- rounding apparently healthy tissues is an inevitable consequence of the process of periUmphatic fibrosis, for the contraction of the new fibrous tissue threads, replacing the normal network of lymphatic vessels, leads to a general puckering and shrinkage of the affected zone. The process of perilymphatic fibrosis is especially interesting because it is an example of the local cure of cancer by natural pro- cesses {see p. 69). But the cure is local only, for the fibrotic process fails to overtake the spreading edge of permeation, wliich has mean- time invaded new districts of the lymphatic system. Owing to the regular centrifugal spread of permeation in an ever- widening circle away from the primary growth, three zones of cancerous infection can be distinguished around the obvious primary growth. 1. The inner zone of isolated or confluent secondary nodules. In this zone the permeated lymphatics have been destroyed. 2. A narrow zone in which perilymphatic fibrosis is actively pro- gressing, and in which invasion of the layers adjacent to the main lymphatic plexus is seen in an early stage. 3. The microscopic growing edge or outer zone of fascial permeation. This zone is clinically inappreciable, for the infection is purely micro- scopic. The lymphatic vessels are choked by cancer cells, while infiltration is absent—that is to say, the interstices of the tissues are free from cancer cells. The microscopic growing edge is found in the plane of the deep fascia where the main lymphatic plexus is situated. The clinical importance of this fact cannot be over estimated. The detection of the microscopic growing edge in the deep fascia is the primary fact upon wliich the permeation theory rests. It is a zone but a few millimetres wide, and it can only be detected by taking sections radiating from the growth far into apparently healthy tissues, and by examining these sections in their whole length. But this, the true growing edge of the cancer, though inappreciable by ordinary methods of examination, is just as definite and real as the visible spreading edge of a ringworm or of a tertiary syphilide. At first the microscopic growing edge forms a small circle immediately around the growth, but it constantly increases in size until it may attain a diameter of 2 ft., involving the scalp above, reaching the groins below, and enveloping the back.