ACUTE OBSTRUCTION 469 Diagnosis of the site of the obstruction.—The clinical distinctions between obstruction in the small intestine and in the colon are by no means well-marked. It may be said generally that the onset of obstruction in the small intestine is more acute, the initial shock is greater, the pain more intense, and the vomiting more copious and persistent than when the colon is blocked. The illness tends to run a more rapid course, and the vomiting becomes stercoraceous sooner. Tympanites is more marked when the colon is the seat of the obstruction, and the dilated colon may be recognizable. The patterns formed by the distended bowel, the evidence afforded by percussion, and the situation of pain, are of no constant value in fixing the seat of obstruction. Treatment.—Only when the patient's sufferings are extreme, and there is good reason to believe they may be due to some form of colic, should opium be administered in suspected cases of obstruction. If a single moderate dose of morphia, combined with atropin, fails to relieve the pain, no more should be given; and if a definite diagnosis cannot be arrived at, arrangements should be made for an immediate exploratory operation. Meanwhile, a turpentine enema should be administered, the patient lying on his left side with the pelvis raised. Notliing should be given by the mouth, except occasional sips of warm water. The use of ice is to be avoided. Exploratory laparotomy.—Before the anaesthetic is adminis- tered the stomach should be washed out, and if the patient is unable to empty the bladder a catheter should be passed. The abdomen is opened below the umbilicus through the inner edge of one or other rectus. The incision should only be large enough to admit two or three fingers, and the cavity should be explored systematically. The csecum is first examined, and if it is found distended, the colon should be traced down. If it is empty, the obstruction is probably in the small intestine. If a portion of empty and contracted small intestine is discovered, it should be traced upwards till it meets distended bowel at the seat of the lesion. If nothing but distended bowel can be found it is probably safest to secure the lowest loop that can be reached, and make a temporary artificial anus in it ; when the bowel has been emptied and the patient tided over the dangerous period, a second operation may be done to discover and deal with the cause of the obstruction. Every endeavour should be made to prevent coils of distended bowel escaping from the peritoneal cavity, as experience shows that this greatly diminishes the patient's chance of recovery, even when the cause of the obstruction is fomid and removed. When the cause of the obstruction is readily accessible and has been removed, if the bowel above is greatly distended it may be