328 ' THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM surgical assistance, though it may be advisable to deal with the ulcer by surgical means. Dilatation may be due to a simple polypus playing the part of a ball valve (p. 377). Infantile stenosis of pylorus is considered on p. 314. In some cases, recovery from this condition is followed by definite symptoms of secondary dilatation of the stomach later. Maylard has called attention to a group of cases of simple narrowing of the pylorus which may be congenital. Simple fibrous stricture of the pylorus is occasionally the cause of obstructive dilatation. Mansell-Moullin has called attention to this fact, and describes the condition found at operation as follows : " It simply seemed as if the circular muscular fibres had disappeared and had been replaced by tough or imyielding fibrous tissue." He goes on to say : " The most probable explanation is that the fibrous degeneration is the outcome of long-continued spasmodic contraction caused by persistent dyspepsia." I have operated upon three such cases in wliich at operation neither adhesion nor trace of scarring was present. Gastroptosis may cause obstructive dilatation by producing a kink at the pylorus (p. 320). Malignant growths of the pancreas, gall-bladder, or bile-ducts may produce, among other symptoms, those of dilatation of the stomach. Perigastric adhesions, wliich are due most often to chronic gastric ulcer or, less frequently, to gall-stones and their sequelae, a distended gall-bladder, or the obstruction caused by the ulceration of a gall- stone into the duodenum or stomach, may cause symptoms of gastric dilatation. Mobile kidney, by its traction on the duodenum, is an imusual but very definite cause. Dilatation due to pressure of a simple tumour external to the stomach is an extremely rare occurrence. It has been recorded as the result of pressure by an aneurysm. 2. Atonic Dilatation This is a condition in which, owing to weakness of the stomach- walls, the gastric contents are not passed rapidly enough into the duodenum. Amenable to medical treatment in its early stages, it is but rarely that it becomes so extreme that surgery has to be called in to its aid. Symptoms.—In the early stages the symptoms are indefinite and consist of gastric discomfort or a sense of fullness after meals.