148 FACE, LIPS, AND PALATE suck owing to its inability to create a vacuum in the mouth, while the attempt to swallow fluids is followed by their regurgitation and escape through the nose. During the early months, death may take place from malnutrition ; and in addition there exists, at all ages, a very real danger from inflammation of the mucous membranes caused by the lodgment and decomposition of secretions and food-stufEs in the oro-nasal cavities. These inflammatory changes may set up chronic nasal catarrh, chronic pharyngitis, oedema of the mucous membrane of the Eustachian tubes and subsequent deafness, gastro- intestinal disturbances, broncliitis and pneumonia. As age advances, the difficulties of deglutition persist; and Avhen speech commences, it is imperfect, indistinct, and nasal in tone. The act of phonation is in reality an exceedingly complicated process, demanding for its proper performance a sounding-box that can be rendered air-tight, and a compressing force. The sounding- box is formed by the bony walls of the buccal cavity ; the escape from it of air is prevented by the closure of the lips and the elevation of the soft palate ; and its shape is altered by the movement of the tongue and cheeks. The compressing force comes from the chest. The presence of a cleft in the palate has little effect upon the vowel sounds, as in enunciating them some of the expired air is normally allowed to pass through the nose, but it interferes greatly with the pronunciation of the majority of consonants, for their production depends upon the complete closure of the naso-pharynx, and the more or less sudden escape of compressed air from the buccal cavity through the orifice of the mouth. Thus the letters D and T are pro- nounced by allowing the compressed air to escape with an explosive effect through an opening between the tip of the tongue and the anterior part of the hard palate ; the sibilant S is sounded by forcing- air through a chink between the tongue and the palate just behind the incisor teeth. In normal circumstances the naso-pharynx is separated from the oral pharynx during phonation by the elevation of the soft palate until it comes in contact with a ridge of tissue, the ridge of Passavant, formed on the posterior and lateral walls of the pharynx by the contraction of the superior constrictor muscles. When the palate is cleft, this closure cannot be effected, so that labial, lingual, and palatal consonants such as P, D, T, S, C, and K cannot be pronounced. The subject of the defect is by long practice fre- quently able to overcome a few of these difficulties by forming some of the closed sounds in the larynx and by making others in a different part of the mouth. In tliis he is often materially assisted by the presence of hypertrophied turbinate bones and adenoids which- offer an obstacle to the escape of air through the nose, and in the latter case also add to the projection formed by the ridge of Passavant.