INNERVATION 431 and cerebro-spinal—is extremely complex, and is still imperfectly understood, but several facts have been experimentally established. Segmentation and peristalsis in the small intestine, and antiperistalsis and peristalsis in the colon, which are the result of a local reflex action effected through Auerbach's plexus, are inhibited by the splanchnic nerves, irritation of which, as in many acute abdominal inflammations, arrests the movements and produces constipation. The vagi contain inhibitory and augmentor fibres for the small intestine. If they are cut and their distal ends stimulated, there may be temporary diminution or cessation of movements—that is, inhibi- tion ; but if the stimulation is repeated five or six times, inhibition is followed by augmentation of movements. After the vagi were cut. Cannon observed a defuiite weakness in peristaltic contractions, with, however, marked improvement in a few days ; when both the vagi and the splanchnics were cut, the peristaltic contractions were prac- tically normal in appearance, but the transit of food was slow. The ileo-ccpcal valve is also under nervous control. The existence of a definite sphincter muscle at the lower end of the ileum has been experimentally proved (Elliott). By impulses carried by the splanchnic nerves, it is kept in a condition of moderate tonic contraction, suffi- cient to prevent regurgitation of material from the ca?cum. When these nerves are cut, free mingling of the contents of the small and large intestine takes place. It would also seem to be relaxed when large nutrient euemata are given, a special reflex perhaps called into play by the emptiness of the ileum. Stimulation of the splanchnic nerves, which stops intestinal movement, strongly contracts the ileo- CBecal valve. During the peristaltic movements of the lower ileum, the sphincter relaxes in front of each contraction and allows food to pass to the caecum ; when antiperistalsis begins in the colon, it closes and prevents regurgitation. These considerations are of practical importance ; for example, the early administration of fluids by the rectum, after an operation for removal of the appendix, may so increase the pressure within the caecum as to burst the sutures with which the stump is invaginated, and this may lead to the formation of a faecal fistula. Sensibility of the Intestine and Peritoneum In contrast to the parietal peritoneum, the normal intestine and the visceral peritoneum are insensitive to touch and pain. A loop of bowel may be pinched, incised, or even divided with the cautery without the patient feeling it, and advantage is often taken of tliis fact in carrying out the second stage of the operation of colostomy. Interference with the blood supply of the intestine, irregular peri- stalsis, or the presence of irritants in the canal causes pain, but it is