THE SPLEEN 112 enlargement. It can be distinguished from leuksemia by the blood count, and from Hodgkin's disease by the absence of glandular enlargement. For an account of this disease the reader is referred to the medical textbooks. Briefly, the spleen enlarges pan fossu with progressive anaemia, diarrhoea, vomiting, and intestinal hjemorrhage. No enlargement of the lymphatic glands occurs, and death usually results from exhaus- tion. The first change in the blood is a diminution of haemoglobin, and to a lesser degree of red corpuscles. Later the diminution of red corpuscles and haemoglobin becomes extreme, and small, imperfectly formed, and nucleated red cells may be found. The coagulability of the blood is also diminished. The white corpuscles rule, both actually and relatively fewer. The differential count should show no marked changes, and myelocytes are absent. The spleen is always enlarged, often to five or ten times its usual size. Atrophy and sclerosis of the Malpighian bodies has been noted by Banti—a point of differ- entiation from leukaemia. It is important not to mistake for splenic anaemia the enlarged spleen which may accompany portal hepatic cirrhosis. Treatment.—Osier advises operation in chronic cases with recurrent attacks of haemorrhage (intestinal). Sippey regards the disease as fatal unless relieved by surgical interference. Of the 61 cases collected by Johnston, 49 recovered after operation. Medical treatment in the past has been very unsuccessful in checking the progress of the disease. If we assume that the enlargement of the spleen is the essential feature of the disease, splenectomy seems to offer the best chance of cure. HYPERTEOPHY IN BANTI'S DISEASE This disease is characterized by a progressive enlargement of the spleen due to overgrowth of its connective tissue, with atrophy of the pulp and Malpighian bodies. In the later stages the hypertrophy is associated with an atrophic cirrhosis of the liver. The disease closely resembles splenic anaemia, and some authorities regard it as a late stage of that affection. Banti's cases showed an increase in the marrow of the long bones and a return to the red or foetal conditions. There are extreme anaemia, cachexia, and wasting. Many cases of this disease have been cured by excision of the spleen. Hagen records 16 cases of splenectomy for Banti's disease, with 13 recoveries. Two of the patients were in excellent health 8 and 6| years respectively after operation (Collins Warren and Harvey Gushing). Failing operation, the disease progresses steadily to a fatal issue.