UTERINE PROLAPSE: TREATMENT 1003 Where no perineal body exists, and also in the coniform vagina of old age, no ordinary pessary can be retained. In these cases, if perineoplasty be contra-indicated or refused, some form of vaginal stem pessary must be worn, such as Napier's or Maw's. These are of great service in feeble, elderly women. Operative treatment.—Combined perineoplasty and ventro-sus- ■pension of the uterus are the most efficient method of cure, and the operations may be performed under one anesthesia. Perineoplasty by itself may greatly relieve that variety of prolapse in which the descent of the uterus is preceded by cystocele and rectocele, and both in these cases and those in which the nterus primarily descends it enables a pessary to be worn if this was previously impossible. Ventro-suspension alone will cure the rare cases of primary uterine descent without any prolapse of the vaginal walls. The uterus must be fixed as high up the anterior abdominal wall as possible, so as to get a straight pull on the vagina and pelvic floor. Low fixation of the uterus increases cystocele, if present. Many other operations have been designed for the cure of prolapse. ColporrhapTiy, either anterior or posterior, may be combined with perineoplasty, where great redundancy of the vaginal wall is present. Inter vesica-vaginal fixation of the uterus is much practised on the Continent and by some American surgeons, when the patient is past the childbearing age, and various methods of suturing together the edges of the levatores ani [myorrhaphy), of narrowing the vaginal canal, or of plicating or suturing together the lateral cervico-pelvic ligaments, have been devised. All of them, in my opinion, are inferior to ventri- fixation and perineoplasty in combination. Success has been reported by Inglis Parsons from injecting into the bases of the broad ligaments per vaginam a l-in-5 solution of quinine. A degree of broad ligament cellulitis is thereby set up, which fixes the uterus. The method may well be tried where a regular operation is contra-indicated or objected to. Hysterectomy should never be done for prolapse ; by severing the connexion between the vagina and the broad ligaments, it facilitates aversion of that canal so much that the whole vagina turns inside out. Digital examination of the prolapsed parts in total procidentia will show how small a proportion of the mass is formed by the uterus itself. Instead of removing the organ, it should be utilized as an artificial support of the vagina and pelvic floor by fixing it high up on the anterior abdominal wall. Perineoplasty is performed by dissecting up a flap from the posterior vaginal wall and excising it in the shape of a V. The edges of the V are then united by suture to restore the normal forward curve of the canal. The skin wound is closed either by a single layer of deep silk-