333 RUPTURE OF STOMACH Prognosis.—This is extremely grave ; all the cases treated at the London Hospital have died. According to Deaver and Ashurst, only 4 operations for traumatic rupture of tlie stomach have been recorded, and all resulted in death. I have operated upon 2 cases, one of which was complicated by complete rupture of the transverse portion of the duodenum ; the patient lived four days after closure of both rents, and at the autopsy no cause for death was found. In the other the right kidney was also ruptured, and hsemopericardium was found post mortem. Diagnosis.—It is unusual for this to be made before operation. It is iinwise to make any attempt at definite diagnosis by such means as inflation with air. The important point is to decide that exploration is necessary. As the result of external violence the stomach may be partially ruptured, its serous, muscular, or mucoils coats, alone or together, being torn ; in some cases a ha^matoma develops in the gastric wall, and may be absorbed, or may form a cyst which may become in- fected, and result in an interstitial abscess. This may rupture into the stomach, the pus be vomited, and recovery ensue ; or into the peritoneal cavity; or, after adhesions have formed externally, may discharge, producing a gastric fistula. The gradual formation of a swelling in the epigastric region fol- lowing an injury should lead to the suspicion of a partial rupture of stomach and to exploration. Pseudopancreatic cyst (Jordan Lloyd) must be considered in diagnosis. An injury of the mucous membrane may lead to the formation of the so-called " traumatic ulcer " of the stomach, characterized by tlie usual symptoms, but as a rule healing rapidly. In a few cases such " ulcers " become chronic and have given rise to perforation, hjemat- emesis, hour-glass stomach, or gastric dilatation. The treatment of this condition is identical with that of non- traumatic ulcer (p. 350). (b) Rupture, complete or partial, may follow distension of the stomach by fluid used for lavage, or gas used in distending the stomach for diagnostic purposes. These cases are rare. One example only has occurred at the London Hospital in the last ten years, in a patient with dilated stomach the result of pyloric carcinoma. During lavage there was a sudden onset of abdominal pain and collapse. At opera- tion five hours later a rupture at the lesser curvature was found. The patient died sixteen hours after operation. Ruptures from over-distension occur most frequently at the lesser curvature, very occasionally at the site of an ulcer, simple or malignant. Ruptures may also be produced by the passage of instruments, such as the gastroscope, for exploratory purposes.