ATROPHY OF THE TESTIS 941 The tunica albuginea is thickened and wrinkled, and the gland on section shows bands of fibrous tissue running in all directions, the normal testicular substance having disappeared. The epididymis shares in the fibrosis and atrophy, and there is frequently a vaginal hydrocele. The condition may be either unilateral or bilateral. Degeneration atrophy of the secretory tubules of the testis may occur from various causes. It may be due to interference with the blood supply by injury to the vessels of the cord, either by accident or operation ; to lesions of the central nervous system, either cord or brain ; to pressure from an old-standing hydrocele or hernia ; or it may be associated with some grave constitutional disease, such as diabetes or leuksemia. The testis in this form of atrophy feels soft and flabby, and on microscopical examination shows fatty degeneration of the essential cells without increase in the fibrous connective tissue. The epididymis shares the atrophy. Both forms of atrophy of the testis, if bilateral, are associated with complete or relative sterility. In advanced cases, spermatozoa are completely absent from the semen (azoospermia), or are few in number (oligospermia) ; and if the atrophy is complete, and especially in degeneration atroph}', the patient is impotent. Atrophy of one testis has no effect on sexual life, provided the other testis is healthy. Treatment must be directed to the cause ; for the condition itself nothing can be done. ARREST OF DEVELOPMENT Arrest of development of the testis must be carefully distinguished from atrophy. It is usually found associated with malposition of the testis ; in fact, all misplaced testes are maldeveloped testes. This arrest of development of the testis is congenital, and may affect both the internal and external secretions. Usually it interferes with the external secretion only, for crypt- orchids generally develoj) the secondary sexual characters of the male, although as a rule they are sterile. There is no treatment for this condition. NEW GROWTHS OF THE TESTIS INNOCENT NEW GROWTHS Innocent new growths of the testis are so rare as to be patho- logical curiosities. The following varieties have been described :— {a) Fibroma.—A few cases have been reported, but the descriptions of nearly all of them suggest that the disease was inflammatory in origin. (6) Osteoma.—It is doubtful whether true bony tumours are ever found in the testis.