RETROVERSION 1005 them the uterus is usually enlarged and often chronically inflamed as the result of the faulty puerperium in which the displacement originated. Prolonged retroversion of a large uterus frequently causes a white patch of thickened peritoneum on its posterior surface, due to friction. Probably this friction sometimes leads to filamentous adhesions, for these are often found without any evidence of salpingitis. Chronic salpingitis is, however, often associated with retroversion as an extension from the puerperal endometritis present before the dis- placement. Clinical features.—Many cases of retroversion exist with- out symptoms, especially where the uterus is small and only the upper uterine supports are lax. Where the uterus is heavy and the rest of the suspensory apparatus weak, as in most cases of puerperal origin, back- ache and abdominal pain radiating outwards parallel to Poupart's liga- ment are felt, due to traction on the utero-sacral and broad ligaments respectively. These pains are worse at the periods, and after standing, but are not entirely relieved by lying down, as is the case in uterine prolapse. Dyspareunia is common, the result either of the accom- panying prolapse of the appendages, or of chronic peritonitis and fila- mentous adhesions at the back of the uterus. Rectal symptoms may occur. Inasmuch as a retroverted uterus is often chronically enlarged by inflammation and subinvolution, leucorrha^a, menorrhagia, and a tendency to sterility are frecjuent. Should pregnancy occur, it is unlikely to proceed beyond the third month ; indeed, this displacement is the commonest cause of repeated miscarriage. If miscarriage does not take place, the uterus nearly always rises from the pelvis and straightens itself, and may remain in proper position after the labour. In a few cases incarceration results, with retention of urine and severe pressure symptoms. These cases of incarcerated retroverted gravid uterus with a distended bladder have again and again been mistaken for ovarian cysts through neglect to use the catheter. Treatment.—Retroversion, per se, needs no meddlesome inter- ference, especially in virgins. If, however, the displacement is causing definite discomfort it should be treated. Pessaries.—It is not sufficient that the organ be movable or even replaceable, it must be retainable, to justify the use of a pessary. It is often impossible to retain a perfectly movable uterus in anteversion, owing to permanent alteration in the length of the peritoneal folds from prolonged malposition. Before insertion of the appliance, the organ must be brought into complete anteversion, i.e. lying almost parallel with the anterior vaginal wall, for unless all coils of intestine are expelled from the utero-vesical pouch, retroversion soon recurs. Moreover, in this position gravity assists in maintaining the anteversion, whether the patient stand or lie. Such reposition is effected by manipulation, either