2o6 THE TONGUE leucoplakia, and syphilitic fissuring, and unhealed ulceration are liable to become malignant. A tongue which for years has been in an un- healthy state, and in which there has been an irregular proliferation of epithelial and connective-tissue elements, is exactly the kind of soil in which the cancer cell grows and flourishes. This "precancerous condition," as it has been called, has attracted wide attention, and it is now recognized that chronic patches, inflammatory papillomas, or indurated fissures which do not subside under appropriate treatment should be dealt with surgically. We are as yet ignorant of the cause which converts these wavering tissues into actual cancer, but we know that the irritation of carious teeth and ill-fitting tooth-plates and the incautious use of caustics have a very serious effect. Butlin's dictum with regard to caustics should be quoted in full: "If there be one thing more harmful than another in the treatment of a simple indolent sore and affections of the tongue in persons over 30 years of age, it is the application of a strong caustic." Smoldng has always been credited with a considerable degree of importance in the production of cancer of the tongue, and it may act by first producing a condition of leucoplalda, then by additional irritation urging that on to a cancerous stage. It is probably the kind of smoking indulged in that is of special importance ; " hot smoldng " with short pipes, and especially rough-stemmed pipes, such as clays, is more dangerous than other forms. Syphilis is another predisposing cause, not only from its tendency to produce chronic inflammatory conditions, but from its liability to leave thin, unstable scars or fissures which readily become the seat of carcinoma. The position with regard to our present knowledge of the etiology of cancer may be summed up as follows : There exists under normal circumstances a " balance of power " between the epithelial and con- nective tissues of the body, possibly between individual cells also ; in parts which are the subject of chronic inflammatory processes, or subjected to prolonged irritation, that balance is disturbed, either in the shape of abnormal activity conferred on one cell element, the epithelial, or a diminished control on the part of another, the con- nective-tissue. Then comes the actual exciting cause, which we have yet to discover, whether a parasite or some peculiar inherited property possessed by the cells ; it is here that the border-line which separates the precancerous from the cancerous stage is passed, a border-line indistinguishable by the clinical eye and not always clearly defined to the pathological. From now onwards it is an unequal fight. The cancerous epithelial cells are pitted against the resistant power of the connective-tissue cells, and the victory is nearly always with the former. In order that in future our treatment may be successful, we