THE PAROTID GLAND ^35 of injury to tlie important structures wliich traverse the gland, parti- cularly the facial nerve. The trunk of the transverse facial artery or some of its branches may be severed, so that there is likely to be severe hpemorrhage. This must, of course, be arrested, and the wound sewn up. The important point to observe is that the sutures must pass dowTi into the depths of the wound so that all the divided tissue is included ; otherwise, pockets may form which will prevent healing. If the edges are jagged the contused portions must be cut away. A firm bandage should then be applied. The patient should be kept on a simple diet which does not demand mastication, and talking should be forbidden until the wound is liealed. Injuries of the Parotid Duct (Stenson's Duct) Stenson's duct is liable to injury in vertical wounds of the face which cross its course at right angles. The wound may or may not perforate the cheek and form an opening into the mouth. The prognosis is better in the former case, since if primary union of the divided ends does not occur (and, in spite of the statements of Konig, it rareh' does occur) there is a possibility that the resulting fistula may become an internal one, and a spontaneous cure be thus effected. When the wound has been cleaned and the haemorrhage arrested, the divided ends of the duct will be seen protruding from the cut surfaces. The circumference of tlie duct is so small that partial division of it is rare. Treatment.-—Konig believes that many such injuries have remained unrecognized, and that primary union of the duct has occurred spontaneously. He maintains, therefore, that it is the duty of the surgeon to unite the divided ends with fine catgut sutures, and close the external wound. If any wound is present in the mucous mem- brane it should be left open. He lays stress on the importance of the after-treatment described in connexion with wounds of tlie parotid gland itself (see above). This operation is one of extreme difficulty in view of the diminutive circumference of the duct, and, in my opinion, primary union rarely, if ever, occurs. Moreover, if it fails, an external fistula is bound to ensue if the original wound was a non-jjenetrating one. A better chance of obtaining a successful result is ensured by converting a non-penetrating wound into a penetrating one by in- cising the mucous membrane. The external wound is then accurately closed. In the case of a wound which originally penetrated the mouth, closure of the external wound is all that is necessary. In a certain proportion of cases the external wound remains closed, and an internal fistula is formed, which, as far as functional activity is con- cerned, will answer all the purposes of the normal orifice of the duct.