566 THE PERITONEUM progressively more reddened, distended, and agglutinated; and flakes of fibrin are found both floating in tlie exudate and adherent to the inflamed peritoneum. 2. Acute Streptococcal Peritonitis The Streptococcus pyogenes may reach the peritoneum by direct infection through accidental or even operation wounds, in puerperal sepsis, and by the blood-stream in septicaemia. Possibly also it may in some cases come from disease of the alimentary canal or from an infected ovarian cyst. It also occurs as a terminal event in some cases of cutaneous erysipelas. It is the most rapidly fatal variety of peritonitis, in part perhaps because it takes the form, when ori- ginating from the uterus, of a rapidly spreading subserous cellulitis (Murphy) : in part certainly because the intraperitoneal phagocytosis appears powerless against this form of infection. There are no distinctive appearances by which streptococcal peri- tonitis can be recognized at operation. As a rule, the exudate is large in amount, odourless, and only slightly turbid ; intestinal distension is not great, and agglutination of coils is absent; fibrinous flakes are scanty or absent. Cover-slip preparations show chains of cocci, together with large numbers of polynuclear cells, apparently in a healthy state, but non-phagocytic as regards the streptococci. There is little doubt that the terminal event in most of these cases is a streptococcal sep- ticsemia. 3. Acute Pneumococcal Peritonitis Whilst this form of peritonitis is more commonly secondary to some pre-existing pneumococcal lesion elsewhere, it does occur as a primary afEection. When primary, the pneumococcus may reach the peritoneum through the blood, and possibly more directly from the bowel ; it has been known to extend from a pyometra along the Fallopian tube (Dudgeon and Sargent). When secondary, the infec- tion may come from a neighbouring pneumococcal affection, such as pleuritis; or the peritonitis may be septicsemic in origin, the peri- toneum being then infected through the blood-stream from some focus at a distance, such as an otitis media. The pneumococcus is said to have been found in the exudate in a certain number of cases of gastric perforation. The exudate in pneumococcal peritonitis is usually large in amount and greenish in colour, contains a quantity of fibrinous flakes, and is quite odourless. There are, however, no definite clinical signs by which it can be recognized, the only certain method being the bacteriological examination of the exudate. It may be suspected at operation if the exudate shows the above-mentioned characteristics, whilst no definite lesion can be found to account for the peritonitis, especially when the patient is a child.