PELVIC CELLULITIS 1081 frequently felt from the abdomen, whilst posterior cellulitis does not give rise to abdominal signs. Very frequently the different varieties coexist {complete cellulitis). Femoral thrombosis and " white leg" often accompany lateral cellulitis. If pus forms, the swelling becomes softer and eventually fluctuates ; large abscesses may mount under the peritoneum even as high as the loin, or sometimes they burrow under Poupart's ligament into the thigh and point at the saphenous ring. With abscess formation the temperature is markedly remittent, and heavy sweating and rapid wasting occur. If the abscess becomes chronic, an indurated fixed swelling remains, giving rise to recurring attacks of pain and fever. In anterior cellulitis more or less cystitis is always present, while in posterior celluUtis diarrhoea is common. Diagnosis.—Acute celluhtis has to be distinguished from sal- pingitis and other causes of acute pelvic peritonitis. The lateral variety is recognized by the mass extending directly outwards to the pelvic wall, and mounting upwards towards the iliac fossa. The abdominal tumour is dull on percussion, and there is a comparative absence of intestinal distension and the other signs com- monly accompanying peritonitis. Anterior cellulitis is at once distinguished by its position between the vagina and bladder, while the swelling of posterior cellulitis does not occupy the pouch of Douglas but lies lower down in the recto- vaginal septum and surrounds the bowel like a ring. The mass formed by a chronic broad-ligament cellulitis may be mistaken for a myoma or a tense cyst, and is sometimes only distin- guishable by operation. Intraligamentous gestation produces a very similar swelling, but has a distinctive history. It is important to remember that cellulitis and salpingitis often coexist. Treatment.—At the outset, cellulitis should be treated by fomentations applied to the lower abdomen and by frequent hot vaginal douches. In favourable cases the swelling gradually subsides, and may wholly disappear in a few weeks. If pus formation is suspected, the collection must be freely incised from its most accessible aspect, commonly just above the groin. Where a chronic pelvic mass is formed, iodides or injections of fibrolysin may be tried to disperse it. These failing, an operation should be undertaken. Laparotomy is usually advisable because in no other way can the exact nature of the mass be ascertained. It may be found, for instance, that the tumour is really a tubo-ovarian abscess which has under-burrowed the broad ligament. Encysted broad-liga- ment abscesses may sometimes be enucleated whole. If not, they should be stitched to the parietal wound and drained.