OVARIAN CYSTS 1067 1. Cysts of the ovary (oophoronic cysts).—All ovariau cysts are at first pedunculated like the organ itself. Tlieir walls are composed of stretched ovarian tissue, and have a characteristic pearly-white or bluish tint, according to their thickness and the character of the underlying contents. Follicular cysts—The simplest species are those derived by distension of the Graafian follicle in various stages of its existence. There are three varieties of foUicvdar cyst: (a) the simple follicular cyst, (b) the follicular blood cyst, and (c) the lutein cyst. {a) Simple follicular cysts.—These may be single or multiple. In the former case the whole ovary is transformed into a pedunculated, tliin-walled, whitish-blue cyst, containing a thin, straw-coloured fluid. In the smaller cysts the wall is lined inside with a short columnar epithelium, but in the larger ones this is flattened out or actually disappears. Multiple follicular cyst formation is usually associated with chronic salpingo-oophoritis, the peripheral sclerosis and adhesions preventing the dehiscence of the follicles. (b) Follicular hlood cysts.—-After dehiscence of the follicle, bleeding normally occurs into it, producing the " corpus hsemorrhagicum." This hfemorrhage may occasionally be excessive and result in the formation of a blood cyst whose walls represent the stretched and thinned tissue of the ovary. These cysts have a very characteristic dark-red colour and are liable to rupture, with severe intraperitoneal bleeding. (c) Lutein cysts.—Cystic degeneration of the corpus lutein has only been described within recent years. The cysts are usually small, and only distinguishable from the simple follicular cyst by microscopical discovery of a layer of lutein cells lining the cavity. Their significance is unknown, but they have been found with such unusual frequency in association with chorion-epithelioma that some general etiological connexion is strongly suggested. Ovarian cyst-adenomas.—The majority of large ovarian cysts belong to this group (Fig. 615). They are multilocidar, though one loculus may predominate in size. The smaller loculi are lined with a tall columnar muciniferous epithelium (Fig. 616), but in the larger ones the cells become flattened. The content of the cyst is mucin, more viscid in the smaller loculi and less so in the larger. It may be transparent, whitish-yellow, or green, or brown from blood-staining, in different cases. When large, these cysts are usually more or less adherent to the omentum or bowel. It has been suggested that cysts of this group are derived by proliferation of certain of the cells of the follicle from sequestered aberrant remnants of the primitive egg tubes, or from subsequent ingrowths of the germinal epithelium. They may occur at any age from puberty onwards, but are commonest after 30.