LINGUAL CARCINOMA: OPERATION 215 operator makes liis opening in the air-passage with the idea of pre- venting the patient from breathing air which has passed over the oral wound before it is clean, then tracheotomy and not laryngotomy should be performed. A laryngotomy tube is not tolerated for any length of time, and I advise its removal either at the end of the operation or not later than the following day. The introduction into the practice of surgery of nasal anaesthesia by means of tubes introduced into the larynx through the nares, and of the administration of ether by the intravenous method, may do much to render these preliminary operations unnecessary. Intravenous anaesthesia has much to recommend it, especially for extensive operations on the mouth. 2. Preliminary ligation of the blood-vessels.—Dawbarn of Philadelphia has written very forcibly on the subject of prehmi- nary or temporary ligation of the blood-vessels before attempting an extensive removal of the tongue, and before operations on the mouth and jaws. There is no doubt that this control is largely to the surgeon's and the patient's advantage, though, again, the per- formance of this step must depend upon the particular procedure to be attempted. If the surgeon decides to attack the glands in the neck before the disease in the mouth, usually, when the glandular involvement is advanced, the external carotid and its branches, the lingual and facial, are exposed in the course of the dissection, on one or occasionally on both sides, and deliberately ligatured, the carotid being secured between the lingual and superior thyroid branches. The removal of the tongue may conclude the operation, as mentioned below ; or tills final procedure may be deferred. The objection to this is that there is considerable chance of the tongue becoming gangrenous when its blood supply has thus been cut off. The old operation of ligature of the lingual artery, beneath the hyo-glossus, should remain only as a dissecting-room exercise, and should cease to occupy any place in the surgery of lingual cancer. In cases where it was desired to perform an extensive removal of the tongue the operation failed in its object, as the vessel was often cut through on the proximal side of the ligature, and in any case the dorsalis lingure branch was frequently not controlled. Ligation of the external carotid and its branches ensures occlusion not only of the lingual but also of the facial, which gives branches to the tonsillar region. Temporary closure of the common carotid is practised by Crile in his extensive " block dissection " of the neck, and will be considered later, but it is not recommended, as the consequences of closing the vessel, even for a short time, have been very serious.