RECTUM AND ANAL CANAL STRICTURE The lumen of the rectum may be narrowed by extrinsic causes, e.g. enlargements of the prostate, pelvic cellulitis, uterine tumours, or hydatid cysts of the pelvis, which are all described in their appro- priate places. A stricture implies that the narrowing is produced by some abnormality or pathological change in the bowel wall itself. A stricture may be (1) congenital (p. 669) ; (2) spasmodic ; (3) the result of inflammatory changes in the boivel wall. Congenital stricture is not very common. Although the condition is congenital in origin, symptoms may not occur until later life. The stricture is situated in the anal canal or at its junction with the rectum. Spasmodic stricture is extremely rare. Inflammatory changes in the bowel wall may narrow the lumen in one of two ways—(a) by a diffuse mucous, sub- mucous, and muscular infiltration, such as may occur in the localized gummata, the diffuse ano-rectal syphiloma (p. 698), and to some extent in diffuse tuberculosis of the bowel (p. 696) ; {h) much more commonly by the fibrous contraction which necessarily results from the healing of any deep and extensive ulceration (p. 699). Diffuse inflam- matory infiltration and fibroid contraction may occur together. The pathological appearances depend upon the cause. Con- genital strictures are felt by the finger as a tight ring ; postoperative strictures in the anal canal are felt as a fibrous ring surrounding the lumen of the bowel; in such cases there is no deep infiltration of the bowel walls. Where fibrous contraction results from the healing of rectal ulceration the degree and extent of the stricture will vary enormously. In the majority of cases which come under observation active ulceration is still present. The stricture is usually within reach of the examining finger, but occasionally it is higher, and may be at the junction of the rectum and the pelvic colon. It is sometimes annular, surrounding the lumen as a fibrous ring; in other cases the contraction takes place on,one side only, with the result that the wall is puckered up at this site ; again, in others a considerable extent of the bowel is involved in the contraction. Polypoid masses of in- filtrated mucous and submucous tissue may be seen projecting into the rectum. Haemorrhoids frequently accompany a stricture, and are probably caused by the pressure upon the hsemorrhoidal veins. The bowel above the stricture becomes hypertropliied and dilated. Fsecal masses retained above a stricture will cause ulceration, or aggravate that already existing. Symptoms.—Most commonly the symptoms of stricture are slowly engrafted upon those of ulceration. The passage of faeces becomes increasingly difficult : they are retained above the stricture for a variable time, and then expelled piecemeal, so that the motion