558 THE PERITONEUM By PERCY SARGENT, M.A., M.B., B.G.Gantab., F.R.G.S.Eng. Anatomy and physiology.—The peritoneum is a thin, smooth, elastic membrane consisting ol a layer of flattened endothelial cells resting upon a layer of subendothelial connective tissue. This mem- brane lines the walls of the abdominal cavity (parietal layer), and covers with a varying degree of completeness the abdominal and pelvic viscera (visceral layer). Its superficial area is stated to equal that of the skin. Outside the peritoneal membrane proper is the subperitoneal connective tissue, which, in certain situations, is heavily loaded with fat. The so-called peritoneal cavity is only a potential space, for its smooth opposing surfaces are everywhere in contact, being separated in health only by a minimal amount of lubricating fluid. It is only by artificial or accidental separation of these opposing surfaces that a cavity is produced. In the male the peritoneum forms a completely closed sac ; in the female the interior of the Fallopian tube communicates directly with the interior of the potential peritoneal cavity through a minute orifice— the ostium abdominale. Peritoneal compartments and pouches.—Anatomists divide the peritoneal sac into two main compartments, the greater and the lesser, communicating with one another by a narrow passage, the walls of which are normally in contact with one another. This is the fora- men of Winslow, which is situated at the right side of the first lumbar vertebra close to the neck of the gall-bladder. The greater sac is further subdivided, from clinical considerations, into certain areas into which fluids tend to gravitate ; these very readily become shut oli into more or less definite compartments by the agglutination of neighbouring areas of peritoneum. With tlie body supine, the lumbar spine presents a well-marked for- ward projection with a deep fossa on either side. A similar projection is afforded by the pelvic brim and the superjacent psoas muscles. To