INJURIES OF THE MESENTERY 461 Pistol-shot icounds and wounds by sporting guns are more com- mon in civil practice, and in their clinical aspects they resemble the injuries produced by pointed instruments rather than gunshot wounds. The intestinal injury is a contused and lacerated wound, and often, from the scattering of small shot, or from the close' range at which the weapon was discharged, several coils of bowel are damaged. The point of entrance of the bullet may be extremely minute. In one case operated upon by me, it was only discovered on opening up the folds of the umbilical cicatrix. There may be considerable haemorrhage into the peritoneal cavity from injury to a vessel in the abdominal wall, such as the deep epi- gastric, or from injury to the mesenteric vessels. The treatment of gunshot or pistol-shot wounds consists in opening up the woimd of entrance, and examining the whole length of the bowel. Each puncture is closed, and any contused area of bowel invaginated by a purse-string suture to prevent the risk of subsequent necrosis and leakage. It is not necessary to search for the bullet, which is usually embedded in bone or muscular tissue, where it does no harm. INJURIES OF THE MESENTERY The mesentery may be ruptured by violence inflicted on the anterior abdominal wall, or by penetrating wounds. Many of the fatal cases of gunshot wound of the abdomen occurring in warfare are due to injuries of the mesenteric and omental blood-vessels. As a rule other viscera are also implicated. Profuse htemorrhSge usually takes place into the peritoneal cavity, with a rapidly fatal result. Sometimes the blood is effused between the leaves of the mesentery and forms a localized hsematoma. In a case of this Idnd operated upon by me, a cake-like mass of clotted blood, about the size of the palm of the hand and nearly an inch thick, was found in the mesentery of a boy aged 13, about sixty hours after he had sustained a blow in the umbilical region. The clot was turned out, and the boy recovered. The damage to the vessels may so interfere with the vascularity of the bowel that gangrene of the loop impUcated ensues, and leads to a fatal result from peritonitis. The sjTuptoms resemble those of contusion or rupture of the bowel, but the signs of internal htemorrhage are superadded. The only treatment is to open the abdomen and secure the vessels. The tear in the mesentery should be closed, lest it form an aperture through which the bowel may subsequently pass and be strangulated.