THE UTERUS ioo8 proceeding is to open the abdomen and incise from above the posterior wall of the cup. Finally, the inverted uterus may be removed by vaginal hysterectomy. INFLAMMATION OF THE UTERUS ENDOCERVICITIS AND CERVICAL "EROSION" Cervicitis may be caused by direct extension upwards of a vaginitis, or may be part of a general uterine infection following labour or abortion. It may also follow obstetric lacerations or operative wounds. The normal virgin cervical canal is probably bacteriologically sterile. The vagina, on the other hand, always contains organisms. The vaginal epithelium is remarkably thick and resistant, whilst that of the cervix is reduced to a single layer with numerous glandular crypts, from which organisms, once lodged, are with difficulty eradicated. Cervicitis may undoubtedly occur in chaste virgins from an ascend- ing bacterial infection from the germ-containing vagina, probably due to some lowered condition of resistance. Acute Endocervicitis Acute endocervicitis is usually merely a part of a generalized infection of the genital canal, such as that caused by gonorrhoea or puerperal sepsis. The cervical discharge is mucopurulent, or in the most severe cases frankly purulent because the secretion from the cervical glands is inhibited. The internal os tends to bar further ascending infection; therefore, whilst acute cervicitis is common, acute endometritis is, fortunately, relatively uncommon. Treatment.—This is considered in the sections on Acute Endo- metritis (p. 1012) and Vaginitis (p. 995), of which it forms a part. Chronic Endocervicitis and Cervical " Erosion " Acute cervicitis is very apt to become chronic, because (1) the tortuous cervical glands harbour organisms, and (2) local treatment is difficult of application. A cervical erosion is the outward sign of the changes in progress throughout the cervical canal. Three stages of chronic cervicitis may be distinguished : Stage 1.—The subepithelial tissue is crowded with cells, chiefly of the lymphocyte type, with some polymorphonuclear leucocytes, which latter are also seen in the gland lumina. The cervical epithelium is irregular and partly desquamated. Around the external os is the area of " erosion." Here the same subepithelial lymphocytosis is seen, while the superficial layers of the squamous epithelium have desqua- mated. The surface, therefore, is slightly depressed and looks raw and