350 THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM is usually insidious, and includes the onset of gastric symptoms at middle age, a distaste for food, a gnawing pain, often not definitely relieved when the stomach is empty, and a steady downward progress. Vomiting is not so constant as in ulcer, and may be of the " coffee- grounds " type. The onset of symptoms of pyloric stenosis without previous history of gastric trouble usually means carcinoma. Prognosis.—All modem observers are agreed that a chronic gastric ulcer carries with it a grave prognosis. It is well Icnown that relapse after medical treatment and apparent cure is common. The following figures illustrate the mortality and the chances of relapse under medical treatment. Taking hospital cases first, Mansell-Moullin has published the following figures: During the years 1897 to August, 1902, 500 patients whose cases were diagnosed as gastric ulcer were admitted into the London Hospital, of whom 402 were women, 98 men. Of these 18 per cent, died, 10 per cent, from peritonitis, 2 per cent, from htematemesis. These figures do not include death from remote complications such as pyloric stenosis, hour-glass stomach, perigastric adhesions, etc., but comprise many cases, particularly in women, of the so-called " medical " gastric ulcer. The figures given by Habershon express more nearly the prognosis. Of 60 cases of chronic gastric ulcer in preoperative days 24 died, 11 of perfora- tion, 7 of hfemoiThage, and 6 of exhaustion. With regard to the liability to relapse in those cases treated medically, in Mansell-Moullin's statistics 42 per cent, had suffered before and been relieved by treatment. Greenhough and Joslin published the following results of medical treatment: Of 187 cases the initial mortality was 8 per cent. ; after five years, 115 patients could be traced, and of these 57 had had recurrence and 15 had died of gastric diseases. Paterson and Rhodes investigated the after-history of 147 patients who had been in the London Temperance Hospital under the care of Soltau Fenwick and Parkinson ; of these 72 could be traced, and 46 of them were not cured. The results of the surgical treatment of chronic gastric ulcer and its complications are now becoming well known, and the operative mortality is falling. The following figures are instructive : Moynihan operated upon 334 cases with 21 deaths—6 per cent. ; Mayo Robson (excluding perforation) operated upon 400 cases with 12 deaths—3 per cent. ; and Mayo, 307, with a death-rate of 6 "2 per cent. We may conclude that the immediate mortality of the surgical treatment of chronic gastric ulcer, including perforation, is less than the immediate mortality of medical treatment; excluding perforation it is much less. The final results are infinitely better. Large numbers of patients have now been traced after operation up to 17-18 years. Mayo Robson, Moynihan and Paterson (collected cases). Mayo, Rutherford Morrison, Busch, and others have published series of cases of definite chronic ulcers demonstrated at operation in which the patient was well when seen more than two years after the operation. Of tliese 80-90 per cent, were cured, another 5-10 per cent, were relieved, and the failures were less than 10 per cent. Treatment.—The treatment of gastric ulcer is at first medical. Surgical treatment must not be considered, except in the case of per- foration or certain cases of hsematemesis, until all carious teeth have