136 FACE, LIPS, AND PALATE preference to a tenotome, which is either unduly pliant or unneces- sarily thick in the back. The red border of the lip being seized with fine rat-tooth forceps at the point where its horizontal portion merges into the vertical border of the cleft, the scalpel is entered exactly at the junction of the sldn and mucous membrane, plunged through the whole thickness of the lip, and carried with a gentle sawing motion upwards towards the nostril, or even into it if necessary. The incision should be kept just external to the vermilion border of the lip, and should never be allowed to encroach upon it, otherwise when the operation is completed the result will be marred by the presence of a patch of red mucous membrane in the line of the scar. If the operator intends to turn down two flaps of mucous membrane, as in Fig. 308, it is of the utmost importance that the incision, at its lower end, should lie exactly between the mucous membrane and the skin, otherwise the vermilion border of the lip will be interrupted by a white line formed by the included skin. In some cases it may be necessary to deepen the lip. This is accomplished by curving the upper part of the incision outwards well into the skin, so that the raw surface presents a concavity towards the cleft, as in Fig. 308 ; but at its lower extremity it must still follow the junction of the mucous membrane and the skin, or the unsightly patch of skin will again appear in the vermilion border. The haemorrhage that follows division of the coronary arteries in the margin of the lip is controlled temporarily either by an assistant seizing the lip between his fingers or with a pair of narrow-bladed artery forceps, and permanently when the sutures are inserted. In cases of bilateral hare-lip the alaj nasi and the lips are thoroughly freed, and the edges of the latter denuded or shaped into flaps in the manner already described. The suture that was employed for restoring the shape of the nostril in the unilateral case should perforate the base of the nasal septum as before, and then be passed through the nostril from within outwards, and made to emerge at a point in the naso-labial groove exactly corresponding to its point of entry on the opposite side. Before cutting the labial flaps, it is advisable to freshen the edges of the skin covering the premaxilla in order to obtain a better idea of the size and thiclmess of the flaps necessary effectively to close the defect. As it is important to pre- serve as much of this premaxillary tab of skin as possible, and also to shape it in such a way that it will dovetail nicely between the labial flaps, its inferior margin should be cut to resemble a wide V (Fig. 314). If the premaxilla is unduly prominent, it should be returned to its normal position at the same time, either by simply pushing it back or, if this is not successful, by the operative procedure described later. 4. The fourth and last stage of the operation consists of so suturing