VESICO INTESTINAL FISTULA 879 track of the fistula should be dissected down to the bladder wall and removed, care being taken not to open the peritoneal cavity. The bladder is dissected free from the pubic symphysis, and the cavity explored for phosphatic debris and calculi. If the bladder is very septic it will be wise to drain it, and follow the operation with constant or repeated irrigation. Any urethral obstruction present must be removed. If cystitis is not severe the wound in the bladder should be closed by a double row of catgut sutures and the prevesical space drained for a few days. A catheter is tied in the urethra. 2. Vesico-Intestinal Fistula etiology.—The fistula may be spontaneous or traumatic. Spon- taneous fistula may take origin in the bladder in chronic cystitis, malignant growth, or some other condition which will cause perivesical abscess. The abscess forms adhesions and ruptures into the bladder and bowel. Simple, typhoid, tuberculous, or malignant ulceration of the rectum or intestine may lead to the formation of a fistula. Pathology.—The vesical opening is most frequently high up on the posterior wall ; it is rarest on the anterior wall. A fistula on the right side of the bladder usually communicates with the c£Ecum or appendix, and one on the left side with the sigmoid flexure. The opening in the bladder is small and is surrounded by an area of inflammation. The communication with the bowel may be direct, but there is usually either a tortuous track or an intennediate cavity. The rectum is most frequently affected, then the sigmoid flexure, ileum, and cfecum, in that order. The coils of intestine are matted together in a dense mass. Symptoms.—When the bladder is previously healthy, spontaneous cystitis develops, and may persist for some weeks before a fistula is formed. There are symptoms of deep-seated suppuration. A history of rectal or intestinal disease or of chronic cystitis can usually be obtained. There is occasionally evidence of rupture of an abscess into the bladder. Pneumaturia {see p. 788) is a constant and characteristic sign, and may be the first intimation that perforation has occurred. The passage of fa?cal material in the urine may be constant or intermittent, and varies from a few brown shreds to considerable masses of frecal matter. The urine is hazy with mucus and bacteria, and contains irregular white flakes. The odour may be distinctly fa?cal. Fragments of undigested food may be recognized. When the fistula is enteric the urine is yellow with bile. Cystitis is present to a varying degree, and may be remarkably slight. Urine is frequently passed by the bowel, and the whole of it may be discharged in this way, giving rise to frequent watery stools. On cystoscopy, cystitis is found, but this may be slight, and confined to the immediate neighbourhood of the fistulous opening. The opening may be hidden by a fold, but is usually seen as a small round opening in which lies a plug of faical matter. It may be surrounded by oedematous bullae. Prognosis.—The condition may exist for many years (three, four, twenty) with(jut affecting the general health. The dangers are retention of pus and fa?cal matter in an intermediate cavity, peritonitis, ascending pyelonephritis, intestinal obstruction. Treatment.—The fistula may close spontaneously if the bladder and rectum are washed. Surgical treatment consists in deflecting the fceces from the intestinal orifice, or in attempting to close the fistula. The portion of bowel may be excluded by short circuit or by colostomy when the rectum is involved.