ENDOTHELIOMA—CARCINOMA 205 ^ See also Vol. I., \>. 535. elsewhere, there appears to be a growing tendency on the part of pathologists to classify as endotheliomas many of the growths which have been hitherto accepted as carcinomas. Only one instance of the kind has come rmder my notice : a nodular tumour, unaccompanied by marked ulceration, occupying the posterior part of the right side of the tongue in a man of 60, was removed locally and submitted to microscopical examination ; the report stated that the structure was very unlike carcinoma, and that the condition was one of endothelial sarcoma. The patient refused the extensive operation that was proposed. More information is still required on this subject, the chief difficulty at present being our inability to distinguish with certainty by micro- scopical examination between connective-tissue and epitheUal cells. Carcinoma ^ Few parts of the body are so susceptible to malignant change as the tongue, and in no position is its occurrence more distressing to the patient, or more trying to the surgeon, although at first sight it would appear more favourable to radical treatment than growths in many other situations. Of all cases of cancer in the male sex, about 8 per cent, are cases of cancer of the tongue, according to the figures given by Butlin and Jessett; while on comparing the relative frequency of the disease in the two sexes, allowing for some slight variations, the figures work out at 85 per cent, males to 15 per cent, females. This greater fre- quency in the male sex is no doubt due to the fact that the precancerous states induced by irritation and disease are commoner in the male than in the female. Although the " cancerous " age may be taken as beginning at 40, cases of very malignant cancer have been recorded in quite young subjects—Variot has recorded a case in a boy of 11, Billroth in a patient of 18; while out of 290 cases recorded by Barker, in 8 the ages of the patients lay between 20 and 30. Nor does old age confer immunity, although after 70 the incidence of the disease is rare. 0. Weber has observed a fatal case in a centenarian. Etiology. Predisposing causes Whatever the future may have to show as to the cause of cancer, in no situation do the pre- disposing causes of irritation and inflammation play such an important part in encouraging the disease as in the tongue; and until our know- ledge of the actual cause becomes more exact we must devote our attention specially to those factors which influence the incidence of a cancerous change. ; It is now universally acknowledged that the chronic conditions of