768 THE PANCREAS its peritoneal covering ; (3) to remove fluid from the peritoneum; and (4) to provide drainage. Korte, however, holds that under no consideration should the gall-bladder be incised and drained at the primary operation while the patient is collapsed. The gland is best exposed by a free median incision. Probably, most benefit follows free external bile drainage, and many cases are cured by this alone. The pancreas should be exposed by tearing through the small omentum, and then through the overlying peritoneum. Any accumulation of fluid in the lesser sac will thus be evacuated and an escape provided for retroperitoneal extravasation. Incision of the substance of the pancreas itself is of doubtful value ; if it be done, a dissector should be employed for the purpose, owing to the risk of severe haemorrhage. If the general peritoneal cavity contain much fluid, it should be emptied and drained. When there is a definite localized mass the surgeon may find a considerable retroperitoneal collection, which may be drained from the front. When the case is of longer duration and the symptoms indicate sloughing of a consider- able part of the gland, the sloughs must be sought and removed. Holes into the bowel for natural evacuation must not be overlooked. Relafses after operations for acute fancreatitis.—The majority of cases that survive operations for acute pancreatitis appear to be com- pletely cured, though a proportion develop chronic pancreatitis or diabetes, so that the prognosis after operation must be uncertain. Recurring attacks of pain are probably due to overlooked gall-stones or to concomitant duodenal ulcer. Sometimes a cyst develops as a late result, or slight recurrence may follow insufficiently prolonged drainage. Chronic Pancreatitis This group includes all cases that come on gradually and that are attended by an increase of fibrous tissue. The etiology, pathology, and morbid anatomy have been already described. The disease is rarely primary, but once initiated it tends to increase progressively, and to end in death; Changes in the faeces.—(l) The stools are unusually bulky, soft, light-coloured, and offensive, while there may be a spurious diarrhcea ; (2) there may be an abnormal amount of fat (steatorrhoea); (3) sometimes there may be faulty digestion of meaty food, as shown by the discovery of undigested muscle fibres (azotori'hoea). Changes in the urine.—(1) Glycosuria is rare and umeliable as a diagnostic symptom ; (2) alterations may be detected by the Cammidge reaction, which depends on the fact that in inflammatory lesions of the pancreas the kidneys excrete a suLstance with a glyco-nucleo-proteid content which on hydrolysis yields a body giving the reactions of a pentose. This 1 For the successful performance of this test an absolutely reliable chemist is necessary, as all the manipulations must be conducted with extreme care.