THE (ESOPHAGUS 2/0 therefore its employment is better deferred until attempts at extraction have been decided upon. In one case, where a small tooth-plate was impacted at the lower part of the oesophagus, I was able through an cesophagoscope tube to move it from its position and push it down into the stomach. In other cases, removal through or with the tube may be possible. Treatment.—The methods employed for the removal of foreign bodies from the oesophagus are as follows :— 1. Displacement downwards into the stomach by means of bougies. 2. Extraction by means of instruments through the mouth. 3. Extraction by means of instruments through an opening made in the oesophagus or stomach. 1. Displacement downwards should only be attempted in the case of smooth bodies, and sometimes when impaction takes place in the lower part of the tube. 2. In the majority of cases, extraction by means of instru- ments through the mouth is the method of choice, and is generally practicable. Incision of the oesophagus or stomach should only be considered when this has failed. The fact that most foreign bodies tend to become impacted in the upper part of the oesophagus facilitates their removal by the mouth. In children, instrumental treatment should always be carried out under an ansesthetic. In adults this is not always necessary. If the foreign body be a small one, such as a pin, fish-bone, etc., it may be extracted by means of the well-known expanding probang of Fergusson, or by means of forceps (Fig. 351, A, B, c, f). If the patient be a child, and a coin or other article be impacted in the upper part of the oesophagus, attempts at extraction are made. An anaesthetic is given, and the instrument passed down through the mouth. Coins can generally be removed by means of a coin- catcher or forceps, preferably the former (Fig. 351, x>, e). This instru- ment is composed of steel, and the handle and stem should be made in one piece. At the extremity a ring of steel, bent at its middle to an acute angle, is soldered to the stem. The ring should not be hinged, but securely fastened to the stem. Many accidents have happened as the result of faulty construction of this instrument. I always employ the X-rays during the introduction of the coin- catcher. The child is placed flat on the back on a couch beneath which the X-ray lamp is placed. The coin-catcher is gently passed down the oesophagus until an obstruction is felt; the room is then darkened and the X-ray light switched on, a hand-screen being placed over the front of the neck and thorax. The end of the coin-catcher and its relation to the foreign body can be clearly seen, and further