846 THE BLADDER internal meatus of the urethra is on a level with the middle of the symphysis pubis and about 2 cm. behind it. This is the most fixed part of the bladder. The base in the male is in relation to the prostate, which underlies the anterior half of the trigone, and behind this lie the seminal vesicles, above which is the peritoneum of the recto-vesical pouch. In the female bladder the base is in relation to the anterior vaginal wall, to which it is adherent. The anterior fornix of the vagina is in relation to the bladder for about 1 in. behind the base of the trigone, and behind this the anterior surface of the uterus lies upon the posterior wall of the bladder almost to the apex. At the apex of the bladder the peritoneum covers it for a short distance before being reflected on to the uterus. In the child, about one-half of the bladder lies above the pubic symphysis (Symington). The anterior surface is entirely uncovered, and the posterior completely covered by peritoneum. The trigone of the bladder is a structure distinct from the rest of the organ, and the muscular fibres are derived from the internal longitudinal layer of the ureters, wliich unite to form the interureteric bar of Mercier, and also pass forwards to the internal meatus, interlacing to form a tliick muscular layer, and passing into the internal longitudinal muscular layer of the urethra. The bladder sphincter consists of non-striped muscle fibres continuous with the muscle of the trigone lying on the upper surface of the prostate. The mucous membrane is composed of transitional epithelium, and there are no papillae. The mucous membrane of the trigone is thick and adherent, that over the rest of the bladder thinner and freely movable. The lymphatics from the anterior surface pass to glands along the external iliac vessels, those of the upper part of the bladder pass to the external iliac and hypogastric glands, and those of the lower part and posterior wall pass to the sacral ganglia at the bifurcation of the aorta. The nerve supply is derived from the 2nd, 3rd, and 4th sacral nerves. The sympathetic nerves are derived from the hypogastric and hsemorrhoidal plexuses. The lowest reflex centre for the bladder is contained in these sympathetic plexuses. Examination.—A greatly distended bladder forms a prominent rounded suprapubic swelling, wluch can be felt as a smooth, round, elastic mass, and is dull on percussion. On rectal examination about 1^ in. of the bladder base just behind the trigone can be felt above the prostate, and a bimanual examination can be made with the other hand above the pubes. A distended bladder forms a soft cushion which tends to bury the prostate. The infiltration of a malig- nant growth at the base of the bladder may be detected in this situation. On vaginal examination the short urethra can be felt in the anterior vaginal wall, and the trigone of the bladder can sometimes be defined. Behind this the bladder base can be palpated from the anterior fornix. Examination by catheters and sounds.—The passage of a catheter is required to withdraw the urine in vesical atony or urethral obstruction, to ascertain the presence and quantity of residual urine, or to obtain an uncontaminated specimen of urine from the bladder. A calculus is sometimes felt on passing a catheter, and a portion of growth may be caught in the eye of a catheter. The most stringent antiseptic precautions must be used in passing instru- ments into the bladder. The method of passing instruments is described at p. 893.