940 THE TESTIS the abdominal glands. A hydrocele is present in the early stages in the majority of cases (Plate 105, Fig. 1), and it may be necessary to draw off the fluid before the physical signs of syphilitic orchitis can be made out. Later the fluid may be absorbed, and the cavity of the tunica vaginalis completely obliterated by adhesions. If a gumma forms and softens, fluctuation may be obtained in the front of the swelling. When fibrosis follows, the body of the testis becomes hard and is frequently smaller than normal, the epididymis may be distorted, and a large hydrocele is frequently present. With atrophy of both testes sexual desire is diminished and, later, impotence may follow. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis has to be made from malignant disease of the testis, and is often so difficult that it can only be settled either by the effects of treatment or by an exploratory incision. Wassermann's serum diagnosis (Vol. I., p. 32) is valuable in these cases. Treatment.—Tliis consists in giving mercury in the secondary stage and mercury and iodide of potassium in the intermediary and tertiary stages. Resistant cases with ulceration and fungous testes may be treated by castration combined with a course of mercurial treatment. Inherited Syphilis op the Testis Inherited syphilis of the testis is rarer than tuberculous disease of that organ in children, but is met with in cliildren a few months old and up to 10 and 12 years. After that time it is extremely rare, but Fournier has described a case in a young man of 24 years. The body of the testis is usually affected, although cases limited to the epididymis have been described. The disease usually presents itself as a diffuse, painless orchitis ending in fibrosis and atrophy of the testis, and, if bilateral, as it generally is, may result in infantilism. Gumma formation, leading to ulceration and fungous testis, may occur, but is rare. The physical signs are similar to those of the acquired variety, but hydrocele is not so common. Treatment.—As in the acquired form, this consists in giving mercury and iodide of potassium. ATROPHY OF THE TESTIS A diminution in the size and fimctional power of the testis may be either the result of inflammation affecting the gland (orchitis), or a degeneration of the glandular elements without supervening fibrosis. Inftammatory atrophy may follow orchitis from any cause, such as injury, syphilis, tuberculosis, mumps, etc., and the fibrosis and atrophy may be partial or complete ; usually they are partial. The testis becomes harder and smaller than usual, and is frequently nodular.