OVARIAN CYSTS minant, no symptoms being present as a rule imtil intraperitoneal rupture of the abscess initiates a violent peritonitis with symptoms resembling those of "acute perforation of an abdominal viscus. They should be treated by oophorectomy and peritoneal drainage. In the condition known as " fibrotic oophoritis," or " cirrhosis of the ovary," the organ is found much reduced in size, very hard, and devoid of follicles. The stroma shows a dense fibrosis. There is, how- ever, no evidence that the change is inflammatory. It is met with most often in virgins, and is sometimes associated with a peculiarly violent form of dysmenorrhcea [see p. 1082). OVARIAN GESTATION The cause of this rare event is unknown. The oosperm embeds itself in the wall of the Graafian follicle, and the gestation sac thus formed usually ruptures at an early period into the peritoneal cavity. Cases are, however, recorded in which an apparently ovarian pregnancy endured for months, or even went nearly to term. The symptoms when rupture occurs are identical with those of ruptured tubal preg- nancy, and the treatment is similar except that the ovary and not the tube claims the operator's attention [see p. 1062). NEW GROWTHS OF THE OVARY OVARIAN CYSTS There is no region of the body in wliich such an extraordinary diversity of new growths occurs as in the ovary, and their elucidation constitutes one of the most puzzling and most interesting problems in pathology. The ovary "is developed, like the testicle, from the genital ridge which lies immediately inside the mesonephric ridge. In the mesonephric ridge lie the mesonephric tubules and the longitudinally-running Wolffian duct, with which they are connected. The genital ridge is very early covered in embryonic life with a special layer of cells Imown as the germinal " epithelium." These cells are not, however, epithelial nor even ectodermic or entodermic, but prob- ably represent certain elements early dift'erentiated from the rest of the cells of the morula for reproductive purposes. In the develop- ment of the somatic elements of the body a progressive differentiation of the cells occurs, first into ectoderm, entoderm, and mesoderm, and later into their specialized derivatives, such as epithelium, bone, muscle, and so forth. The cells of the germinal epithelium, however, unlike those of the rest of the body, claim imdifferentiated descent from the primitive blastomeres into which the dividing oosperm first splits ; from them develop the sexual elements of the new individual, in the