THE UTERUS 1040 very vascular, as in nsevoid degeneration. The sound is produced in the vascular leashes of the broad ligament, and is heard to one side of the mass. Diagnosis.—If the tumour is obviously connected with the uterus, it only remains to distinguish it from the enlargements due to pregnancy, malignant disease, pyometra, congenital hsematometra, and uterine fibrosis. Confusion with fregnancy can only arise during the early months. Although the fact that amenorrhcea practically never occurs with a myoma unless pregnancy coexists is generally distinctive, immediate diagnosis may be obscured by a false menstrual history, or by the irregular haemorrhages so often associated with early pregnancy. In such a case, imless the symptoms are urgent, the surgeon may either watch the rate of tumour growth for a month or two, or place the patient under observation to ascertain beyond doubt the presence or absence of the menses. Carcinoma of the corpus may produce uterine enlargement compar- able with that due to a small submucous myoma, but continuous loss and watery discharge replace the periodic floodings. A sloughing myoma during extrusion may closely simulate malignant disease, but on palpa- tion is firm and hard, quite unlike the friable, almost pulpy, feel of carcinoma. It is to be remembered that carcinoma corporis and myomas frequently coexist, and that the latter very rarely begin to give trouble after the menopause. Pyometra is often due to carcinoma, but in cases secondary to senile endometritis a small sloughing myoma may be simulated. There is, however, little or no bleeding in such cases, and the passage of a sound under ansesthesia decides the diagnosis. Congenital hcematometra could only simulate a myoma affecting one horn of a double uterus. The enlargement and severe periodic haemorrhages due to fhrolic metritis cause close resemblance to a small submucous myoma. In this and the previous case the history and age of the patient may decide, but the diagnosis can often only be clinched by exploratory operation. If a uterine connexion of the tumour cannot be ascertained, absolute diagnosis is impossible. A myoma may then be mistaken for an ovarian tumour, or for the mass formed by an old haematocele, chronic salpingitis, or cellulitis. Scanty menstrual loss, fluctuation, a smooth contour, and compara- tively rapid growth strongly favour a diagnosis of ovarian cyst. The swellings due to encysted blood or inflammatory products are usually distinguishable by their history. The importance of passing a catheter in any case of a doubtful abdomino-pelvic tumour cannot be insisted upon too often.