THE TONGUE 208 has started; secondly, to peculiarities in the growth itself; thirdly, to the amount of resistance that it encounters on its way. 1. Papillary form. — Two varieties are seen: (1) The small indurated papillomatous cancer, which has started in a plaque or neglected leucoplakial patch, and is only recognized by its induration. Very often a deep fissure can be seen traversing the papillary area. (2) The large fungating cauliflower-growth. I have seen two marked cases of this form. The appearance at first sight did not suggest a cancer, but rather a benign papilloma. There was, however, a history of rapid growth, and the mass was much larger and whiter than is usual with the simple papilloma. In both instances there was a curious absence of induration. The diagnosis of cancer was con- firmed by microscopical examination, but in each instance there was rapid and fatal recurrence after operation. I regard this type as exceptionally malignant. 2. Nodular form. — The nodular type is somewhat rare. It appears as a hard nodule or plaque which seems situated in the tongue substance, closely simulating a primary chancre. There is little or no ulceration, because the degenerative process is not marked. In a case of this kind under my care I was very doubtful of the diagnosis until I had removed the mass and submitted it to microscopical examination. On squeezing the mass before excision, I made caseous matter ooze from a small opening on the surface, and thought I had to deal with a chronic inflammatory mass, possibly caused by a foreign body. The pathologist's report left no room for doubt. 3. Ulcerous form.—This is the common variety, but here again the ulcer may present itself in a number of different guises, depending upon the rate at which it spreads, the presence or absence of an active bacterial infection, or upon the particular type of ulcer, such as a dental ulcer, on which the cancerous process has been grafted. The chief characteristics of the typical cancerous ulcer are as follows : It is usually situated at the side of the tongue, very commonly at the posterior part, and the tongue, being fixed by the infiltration, is protruded with difiiculty. In advanced cases the patient may not be able to open his mouth widely. There is an abundance of saliva, which runs away when the mouth is opened. The surface of the ulcer is usually foul and covered with food, bacteria, and epitheUal debris ; the edges are raised, and for a distance of a quarter of an inch or more the thickened epithelium of the margin stands out as a white or yellowish-white band from the surroimding normal cuticle. This peripheral thickening of the epithelium is present in epitheliomas of the lip, and is an important detail. On passing the finger over and round the ulcer the edges feel hard and indurated, like cartilage, while a mass can be detected