326 THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM If an abdominal operation has been performed, there is usually no trace of peritonitis. Symptoms.—The onset is, as a rule, sudden, in the postoperative cases occurring from twelve to forty-eight hours after the operation, usually about twenty-four ; it has been delayed to the second week. Epigastric pain and a feeling of distension are first complained of, and are followed by the vomiting of large quantities of fluid with very little effort but with no relief. The fluid is usually greenish-grey, turbid, and seldom offensive. As the disease advances, thirst becomes intolerable, the pulse rapid, respiration embarrassed, and there is great restlessness. Tetany has been observed. On examination, the great abdominal tympanitic distension is evident, chiefly on the left and in the middle line. Splashing is readily obtained, and peristalsis very rarely seen. If the stomach-tube is passed there is an abundant escape of gas and a large quantity of fluid is evacuated, but the stomach refills after a short time. Diagnosis.—Early recognition is important, particularly in the postoperative cases where complications due to the anaesthetic or to the operation may be more in the mind of the surgeon. It may be confused with postansesthetic vomiting, but this does not persist; or it may appear for the first time twenty-four hours after operation. In the recorded cases the post-ansesthetic vomiting had ceased. Early peritonitis following abdominal operations may be suspected, but the symptoms of the two conditions differ entirely. The tem- porary relief following the evacuation of gas and fluid by a stomach- tube should lead to the correct diagnosis. Prognosis.—The death-rate of recorded cases is 63 per cent., most of the deaths occurring within the first week. Treatment.-—As soon as it is even suspected that this con- dition is supervening, the stomach-tube should be passed and lavage employed. The recumbent position with the foot of the bed raised should be adopted. It has been recommended that in persistent cases the patient should lie on the face or assume the knee-elbow position. If these measures fail, what is to be done ? Operation has been carried out in 14 cases with 2 recoveries, and in 1 of these (Mac- evitt) after the abdomen was opened—the diagnosis not having been made before operation—the operator contented himself with passing a stomach-tube. In the second, a kink at the duodeno-jejunal flexure was relieved by suturing the jejunum to the transverse meso-colon (Petit). Gastrotomy has failed to relieve in 5 instances. Gastro- jejunostomy has been recommended as applicable, but should never, in my opinion, be done. In the 2 recorded cases (Kehr, Korte), death ensued. The condition has arisen after and in spite of gastro-