824 THE KIDNEY ectomy, is the only radical method. It may be necessary to remove the lower part of the ureter through the bladder after suprapubic cystotomy, and to take with it an area of bladder wall around the ureteric orifice. Recurrence almost invariably takes place. CYSTS OF THE KIDNEY Apart from retention cysts of the kidney due to obstruction in the renal pelvis (hydronephrosis, pyonephrosis), there are several varieties of cysts, some of doubtful origin. These are as follows :— Multiple cysts in chronic nephritis. Dermoid cysts. Polycystic Iddney and congenital cystic kidney. Solitary cysts or serous cysts. Hydatid cysts. Dermoid cysts are very rare, only five or six examples having been recorded. Polycystic Kidney (Congenital Cystic Kidney) In this condition the kidney is transformed into a collection of cysts, and has an appearance almost like a bunch of grapes. The disease may occur in several members of the same family. Although probably always congenital, if not obvious at birth it may not con- spicuously develop till adult life. It is most commonly observed during infancy, or between the ages of 40 and 50. Women are more frequently aiiected than men. The disease is practically always bilateral, though it may be more advanced in one kidney than in the other. The organ may reach enormous proportions, and is converted into a mass of cysts varying from a pin's head to a cherry in size. The contents are a clear yellow, sometimes brownish, fluid which holds in suspension cortical and columnar epithelial cells, tube casts, red blood-corpuscles, leucocytes, and occasionally uric-acid and cal- cium - oxalate crystals. Urea is present in small quantities, and albumin, phosphates, chlorides, and cholesterin. The intercystic kidney tissue may be invisible to the naked eye. The wall of the cysts consists of connective tissue lined by columnar, cubical, or flattened epithelium. Cystic changes are present in the liver in 18 per cent, of cases. The liver cysts are due to dilatation of biliary canals, and are not usually numerous. In a few cases cystic changes have also been found in the pancreas, spleen, thyroid, ovaries, uterus, and seminal vesicles. Hypertrophy of the heart and arterio-sclerosis are frequently present. Symptoms.—If the cystic condition is very advanced in the infant, the large size of the kidney may cause difhculty in labour, and the child usually soon dies with ursemic symptoms.