6oo HERNIA form of hernia is rarely seen before middle life, and is much com- moner after than before 40. Like femoral hernia, it is almost confined to the female sex, and especially to women who have borne many children and have become obese. Six points especially characterize umbilical hernia : (1) Its markedly progressive tendency. Unlike the forms already mentioned, there is almost no limit to the size which it may attain, and sacs are occasion ally met with containing more than half the intestinal contents of the abdomen. (2) The tendency to widespread loculation of the sac. (3) The extensive and rapid formation of adhesions, leading to (4) early irreduci- The proneness to, and dangerous na- ture of, strangula- tion here. (6) The difficulty of accom- plishing a radical cure. Cau ses of umbilical hernia. ■—It is doubtful if, when this hernia occurs in later life, its sac is ever " preformed " ; it is prob- ably the result of stretching of the umbilical cicatrix by a gradual increase of intra- abdominal pressure, or by the long-continued intermittent in- crease of such pressure. Thus it is most commonly seen as the result of (a) repeated pregnancy ; (b) general obesity in women about the menopause; (c) accumulation of ascitic fluid; (d) the repeated strain thrown on the abdominal wall by the constant coughing of chronic bronchitis and emphysema. Clinical features of umbilical hernia.—At first there may be nothing seen externally, and the patient's attention may be drawn to the trouble owing to dragging pain at the umbilicus, often accom- panied by nausea and flatulent distension of the abdomen. There may be tenderness in the umbilical region, and frequently the symp- toms are increased by the act of Ijang down, the explanation being that if the omentum happens to be adherent at this point and the Fig. 449.—Umbilical hernia, showing sacculation in superficial fascia (transverse section). Lateral saccuhis ; l;.. K., rectus muscle ; Ijowel ; o,, omentum ; u., umbilicus.