968 THE PENIS occurred at an early age of foetal life so that the under surface becomes the upper. Symptoms.—In the common form with complete cleft of the penis the chief trouble is the dribbling incontinence of urine which occurs owing to the division of the spliincter muscles. This leads to eczema of the surrounding parts and the usual miserable condition of patients suffering from urinary incontinence. Coitus is difficult or impossible. Treatment.—The treatment of epispadias consists either in unitirig the edges of the fissure of the urethra or in perfornmig plastic operations. The same difficulties are present as in hypospadias, but after several attempts it may be possible to get a fairly satisfactory result. Incontinence of urine will continue in cases of complete epispadias, however satisfactory a penis may be formed. HERMAPHRODISM This subject may be conveniently discussed here, owing to its close association with malformations of the penis. The only true criterion of sex is the structure of the genital gland, the male gland producing spermatozoa and the female ova. A true hermaphrodite, therefore, would be an individual who possessed both kinds of genital glands, an ovary and a testis on either side, or two of each kind. Such an individual has never been Imown to survive birth, even if the condition has occurred amongst prenatal monsters, which is doubtful. Cases of true hermaphrodism are reported from time to time, but the descriptions are always lacldng in essential details, and the only true scientific proof would be obtained from microscopic sections of the genital glands. True hermaphrodism therefore probably does not exist in human subjects. PSEUDO-HERMAPHRODISM In early foetal life there is no distinction between the sexes either in the internal or in the external sexual organs, and rudiments of the sexual apparatus of the opposite sex persist in all individuals through- out life. In the external organs the male genitals are merely a further development of the female. The penis is a large clitoris enclosing the urethra, the scrotum the coalescence of the labia majora, while the descent of the testes is frequently simulated by the descent of the ovaries into the sacs of inguinal hemise. The female breast is repre- sented by the rudimentary, functionless male breast. In the internal organs of generation, the male retains in the uterus masculinus the representation of the uterus, Fallopian tubes, and vagina of the female, both being developed from Miiller's duct; whilst in the female the duct of Gartner represents the vas deferens, both having their origin in the Wolffian duct.