THE UTERUS I044 either from in front or from behind. In the latter case the step is facilitated by cutting down upon a large uterine dilator previously placed in the vagina. In either case, both walls must be divided transversely in the middle line for about an inch. The fingers can now be thrust across the vagina under the uterus, and the mass pulled up. Each uterine artery having been clamped just before it enters the uterus, the lower part of the broad ligament and the lateral vaginal vault are divided and the organ is removed. The ovarian vessels and round ligaments are secured as previously described. The uterine arteries are ligatured separately. The lateral vaginal vessels exposed just outside the lateral angles of the divided vagina are treated by mattress suture. The anterior peritoneal flap is now united to the edge of the cut peritoneum on the posterior vaginal wall, but the latter canal is not further occluded, as it is important in these cases to leave a channel open in case the ligatures on the uterine and vaginal vessels become infected from the vagina. Thp ureters are liable to damage during total hysterectomy unless their course is clearly defined and the bladder wall separated from the upper part of the vagina. Hysterectomy for cervical myomas.—The technique just described is not proper for cervical myomas. In such cases the spreading of the broad ligaments, the displacement of the bladder, and the fixity of the mass render the ordinary methods of securing the uterine vessels and amputating the uterus impossible. The difiiculty in these cases is the control of bleeding during the removal of tumour and uterus, which therefore, must be accomplished as quickly as possible. The upper part of the broad ligaments having been clamped and divided, the loose anterior peritoneum and the bladder are pushed off the front of the expanded supravaginal cervix as low as possible. The expanded tissue forming the tumour capsule is now divided transversely in the mid-line for about an inch, and by introducing the finger the plane of cleavage between the tumour and the capsule is defined. The incision is then prolonged to either side, and the lower pole of the tumour enucleated from its bed and pulled up. The incision is now extended around the uterus on each side, the uterine vessels being clamped en passant. Subtotal hysterectomy is thus efiected, the lower part of the capsule of the tumour (i.e. the expanded supra- vaginal cervix) being left behind. This is trimmed up, or entirely removed, and the vessels are secured. Hysterectomy for broad-ligament myomas.—After clamping and dividing the broad ligament with its contained ovarian vessels and round ligament, which are stretched over the tumour, the latter is enucleated as far as it will easily separate. The opposite broad liga- ment is divided in the classical manner, and the uterine artery on that