584 HERNIA to the danger of including a contained knuckle of gut when ligating the omentum. Next in frequency is the bowel itself. The part most commonly involved in inguinal and femoral hernias, especially on the right side, is the lower part of the ileum ; on the left side, the ilio-pelvic colon is often found. Very rarely the intestinal canal of one side will trespass into a sac of the opposite side. Thus, sigmoid is at times foimd on the right side (Eccles, Kelly, Griffiths), and appendix, caecum, and ascending colon have been found in a sac on the left (Owen Eichards). Such cases are of extreme rarity, and suggest either general enteroptosis, elongation of the mesocolon, or transposition of viscera. The presence of the vermiform appendix in right-sided sacs has been frequently noted, at times in a state of acute inflammation. I have met with such a condition in 4 per cent, of cases. A Meckel's diverticulum may be met with in inguinal sacs, and may be mistaken, when much atrophied, for an adhesion band ; the discovery of its true nature is thus a matter of some importance. The ovary and Fallopian tube are met with occasionally in inguinal and even femoral sacs, the tube being often adherent at its fimbriated extremity. I have also found a small pedunculated fibro-myoma of the uterus in an inguinal sac. Although the bladder is more commonly foimd in the extra- peritoneal varieties of hernia, a process of it may present in the sac of an inguinal or a femoral hernia. The sac of an umbilical hernia rarely contains anything except omentum, transverse colon, and mesocolon; it may, however, contain small intestine or a Meckel's diverticulum. Fluid may be foimd in hernial sacs, and, unless due to ascites, points to some local irritation of the sac or its contents. Thus, it is seen constantly in strangulation, or where strangulation has undergone spontaneous resolution ; it may also be associated with injury to the sac, with pressure by a badly fitted truss, or, at times, with localized tuberculous or malignant disease of the sac or its contents. Loose bodies may be found in hernial sacs, usually in the form of calcareous or fibro-cartilaginous masses varying in size from a pea to a horse-bean ; these are usually detached appendices epiploicse which have undergone secondary histological change. Diagnosis of hernial contents.—The presence of bowel is usually determined fi'om the elastic character of the tumour, the gurgling of fluid and gas when it is handled, the resonance to per- cussion, the occurrence of visible peristalsis, and the plastic sensation due to the presence of faeces. Recurrent attacks of pain and tenderness in a sac, especially if