8oo THE KIDNEY is increased bv movement, respiration, coughing and sneezing. The abdominal muscles are rigid on the diseased side. The- corresponding thigh is stii? and becomes flexed and rotated slightly outwards. Extension is restricted, but flexion unlimited. There may be transient paralysis of the lower limb. The whole loin bulges outwards and backwards. The anterior swelling is less than in kidney tumours. The tumour does not move on respiration, and there is little movement on palpation. In supra- renal perinephritic abscess there may be jaundice, ascites, and oedema of the legs, and persistent vomiting when the right side is aflected. In infrarenal abscess there are symptoms of involvement of the psoas muscle, neuralgic pain in the groin and genitals, retraction of the testicle, and constipation. (Edema in the loin may be present, especially if the abscess be behind the kidney. When the kidney is diseased there is pyuria. In acute cases, pus forms in from ten to twelve days ; in subacute, in three or four weeks. In tuberculous cases acute symptoms are absent, and pain and tenderness are slight. If no operation is performed, either the patient dies of septicaemia or the abscess ruptures on the surface or into the pleura, bronchi, colon, peritoneum, bladder, or vagina. Diagnosis.—The condition may be mistaken for typhoid fever in the early stage, and for hip-joint disease or pyonephrosis at a later period. When only fever and general symptoms are present, leuco- cytosis will show that suppuration is going on in the body, a negative Widal reaction will exclude typhoid fever, and examination of the blood will eliminate malaria. Against hip-joint disease there are freedom of flexion and rotation of the thigh and absence of local tenderness. A pyonephrosis is regular and well defined; it moves with respira- tion, projects forwards rather than laterally or backwards, and does not cause oedema of the skin. A pyonephrosis may be present and be concealed by a perinephritic abscess. Prognosis.—Good results are obtained by prompt operation in primary cases. The longer the operation is delayed the worse is the prognosis. In secondary perinephritic abscess the prognosis depends upon the original cause. Treatment.—Early operation is the only successful method. The kidney is exposed by an oblique incision, and all pockets of the abscess drained, care being taken not to overlook iliac and subphrenic collections of pus. If the kidney is the seat of abscess, pyelonephritis, or pyo- nephrosis, it should be freely incised and drained. If nephrectomy be necessary it should be postponed to a later date. When the abscess has originated in an empyema, this should be drained.