ANATOMY 659 in Figs. 476, 477, and 478. Narrowest above, it frequently shows a distinct constriction at its junction with the pelvic colon, and here a physiological sphincter exists, for the rectum is a passage, and not a reservoir, for faeces. Just above its termination a dilatation known as tlie ampulla is present. The upper part, except a narrow strip of posterior surface, is covered with peritoneum. The serous membrane gradually leaves the sides, and finally the anterior wall ; the level of reflexion varies slightly, but is commonly about 3 in. from the anal margin ; in the cliild it is relatively lower than in the adult. The peritoneum is intim- ately attached to the bowel above, but more loosely below. The longitudinal muscle fibres are principallj' collected into an anterior and a pos- terior bundle, which are re- latively shorter than the rectum itself; hence when distended the bowel shows lateral inflexions of its walls. The circular muscle fibres form a complete investment. The thick, vascular nmcosa pre- sents numerous folds in the empty gut. Lymphoid nod- ules are found in the mucosa and submucosa; Lieberkiihn's follicles are abundant; the surface epithelium is co- lumnar. The redal valves (valves of Houston, Fig. 479) are circular, crescentic, or spiral folds, best seen in the distended gut, and composed of all the tissues of the bowel wall, except j^erhaps some of the outer longitudinal muscle fibres. They correspond in position to the lateral inflexions of the wall, and have a similar origin. There are commonly one well-marked right valve and two less definite left ones, the former being immediately above the peritoneal reflexion and the latter equidistant above and below it. The anal canal is an antero-posterior slit-like passage, about 1 in. long, leading downwards and backwards to the anal orifice, and forming an angle of 90' with the rectum (Fig. 476). On each side is the ischio-rectal fossa ; in front the membranous urethra and its enclosing muscles in the male, and in the female the perineal body, separating it from the vagina ; behind is a mass of muscular and connective tissue—the ano-coccygeal body. The Fig. 477.—Female pelvic viscera in verti- cal section, showing the relation of the rectum to the vagina and the recto- vaginal reflexion of the peritoneum.