POSTOPERATIVE OBSTRUCTION 505 of the anal sphincters or because of pain in the abdominal wound when he strains. As the flatus accumulates, the bowel is gradually stretched, and its muscular coat loses its tone and becomes paralysed. Paralysis of the bowel with symptoms of complete obstruction some- times follows prolonged operations in which there has been excessive handling of the gut or forcible retraction of the edges of the wound. It is most liable to ensue if a large amount of bowel has had to be withdrawn from the abdominal cavity and the exposed coils have not been kept moist and warm. In cases of localized sepsis—for example, appendicitis with ab- scess formation—there is often difficulty in securing an action of the bowels for some days after the operation. This may be due to paralysis of the loops of bowel in the vicinity of the abscess, or to adjacent coils being glued together by plastic lymph to such an extent that the peristaltic waves are arrested by the adhe- sions. Sometimes the obstruction is accounted for by too tight packing with gauze, or the pressure of a rigid drainage-tube on the bowel. The most common and most serious cause of postoperative obstruc- tion is general peritonitis, which may be due to spread of the disease for which the operation was performed, or to infection introduced at the operation. Occasionally, embolism or thrombosis of the mesenteric vessels causes paralytic obstruction. Clinical features.—The most prominent symptoms are gradually increasing distension of the abdomen and a progressive rise in the pulse-rate. Sooner or later, mouthfuls of browir, fetid fluid regurgitate from the stomach almost continuously without retching or efiort. In some cases, the fluid collects in the stomach for some hours and is ejected in large quantities, the emptying of the stomach giving great reUef for a time. Occasionally no vomiting occurs till just before death, when a large quantity of brown, foul- smelling material, often mixed with blood, is brought up. The tem- perature usually remains persistently subnormal. Abdominal pain and coHc are seldom complained of, and there is often an entire absence of muscular rigidity. The extremities soon become cold, blue, and clammy, although the rest of the body may maintain its warmth. The features are drawn and pinched, but the eyes are often bright and clear, and, although the patient looks extremely ill, he may express himself as feehng quite comfortable, and he usually fails to reahze the gravity of his condition. It is seldom possible to distinguish between the paralytic and the mechanical forms. Acute dilatation of the stomach or gastro-mesenteric ileus may closely simulate postoperative obstruction. Treatment.—In the early stages of abdominal distension the