1047 SALPINGITIS be removed by torsion and evulsion, except in the case of large myoma- tous tumours (see p. 1041). After the removal of an adenomatous or cystic polyp the mucosa should be curetted. If the polyp be found to be malignant, total extirpation of the uterus and adnexa must be performed. THE FALLOPIAN TUBE SALPINGITIS Pathology.—In the vast proportion of cases the route of tubal infection is through the uterus. Thus salpingitis follows on endome- tritis of puerperal, postabortional, gonorrha>al, or postoperative origin. Occasionally, however, it is met with in virgins in whom none of these causes are in operation, and in such cases it is either due to the upward extension of a simple cervicitis {see p. 1008), or is primary in the tube itself. These primary forms are almost always tuberculous. Rarely the tube may be infected through the abdominal ostium from an appendicular abscess or a tuberculous peritonitis. Acute salpingitis may be suppurative or non-suppurative. 1. Acute suppurative salpingitis.—The tube is swollen and red ; the peritoneum covering it and the adjacent parts is injected, and soft adhesions unite it to the omentum and to neighbouring coils of gut. The tube wall and plicse are infiltrated with polymorphonuclear leuco- cytes, and the lining epithelium is largely destroyed, while the lumen contains pus. The mesosalpinx is thickened by diffuse lymphangitis, the ovary is adherent and may contain thin-walled cysts due to acute serous exudation into the follicles, whilst the peritoneum in the neigh- bourhood is often raised in irregular blebs by serous exudate. In the most acute cases there is a direct outpouring of pus through the abdominal ostium into the peritoneal cavity. More commonly, how- ever, the tubal finibriee, by swelling and adhesion, rapidly occlude the opening, the pus collects in the tube, and thus a pyosalpinx is formed. (Fig. 607.) On account of the fixity of its mesosalpingeal border a distended Fallopian tube assumes a curved shape, curling downwards and inwards. Thus the tube usually almost encircles the ovary, and, as a rule, its lower end is adherent to the floor of the recto-uterine pouch. Acute salpingitis is commonly bilateral. The subsequent fate of a pyosalpinx varies. It may spontaneously discharge into the rectum to which it has previously become adherent ; more rarely it may empty itself into the vagina, bladder, or uterus ; exceptionally its wall may give way and the pus escape into the peritoneal cavity. More often it becomes surrounded by a mass of adhesions to the uterus, the broad ligament, the bowel, and the omentum, and thus becomes sequestered (see Chronic Salpingitis).