474 THE INTESTINES csecal tuberculosis ; (5) fibromatosis of tlie colon, (6) actinomycosis, (7) primary chronic intussusception, (8) pressure of extrinsic tumours. In the aged : (1) Malignant disease, (2) chronic intussusception, (3) fgecal concretions, (4) faecal accumulation. The treatment of chronic obstruction depends upon the lesion causing it, and will be described later. 3. Chronic Obstruction terminating Acutely One of the most common terminations of gradually increasing stenosis of the bowel is the onset of symptoms of acute obstruction brought about by sudden occlusion of the narrowed lumen. This may be due to a hard faecal mass, a gall-stone, or a foreign body blocking the aperture, or to congestion of the mucous membrane following the taking of a strong purgative. In other cases, it results from Idnking or torsion of the affected segment brought about by rapid distension with gases, or by a sudden change of position. In advanced cases, the bowel may be exhausted by its attempts to overcome the obstruction, and become relaxed or even paralysed. The changes in the bowel present a combination due to the gradual obstruction with the superadded effects of complete occlu- sion in the form of increased vascular engorgement and gaseous distension. Unless relieved by operation, the condition usually terminates fatally, either by exhaustion induced by pain and vomiting, and inter- ference with the action of the lungs and heart due to the distended bowel pressing upon the diaphragm, or by peritonitis set up by organisms passing through the wall of the gut or from perforation. RETROPERITONEAL HERNIA In the early embryo, the intestinal canal consists of an almost straight tube attached to the middle line of the body by a fold of peritoneum—the primitive mesentery. As the different segments of the alimentary canal and the associated glands are differentiated and assume the dimensions and position of the fully developed organs, this mesentery undergoes a corresponding series of changes, certain parts becoming elongated, while others become shortened and fixed. Without going into details, it may be said that, as a result of these and other changes, various peritoneal folds with intervening fossae are developed on the posterior abdominal wall, particularly in relation to the flexures of the intestinal canal. The surgical significance of these fossae lies in the fact that they may assume such dimensions as to form potential sacs into which a loop of bowel may pass and become strangulated. The situations in which such retroperitoneal hernias may occur