194 THE TONGUE clefts and fissures seen on the surface of the syphilitic tongue. Some- times the arrangement is quite regular, the indurated surface of the tongue being cut up by lines which divide it into perfect quadrilateral areas ; in others the arrangement is very irregular. In the parenchymatous form the cellular, hyperplasia affects the deeper parts of the organ, and gives rise, in fact, to a general cirrhosis. In the early stages, when the connective-tissue cells are actively proliferating, the tongue is swollen, often extremely so, indented laterally by the teeth, and may be eroded and ulcerated. In the extreme cases, which are rare, however, a condition of syphilitic macroglossia is set up. Sooner or later the period of active cell-formation is replaced by the period of fibrous contraction or sclerosis ; the tongue becomes shrunken and distorted as in the superficial variety, but to a much greater extent. As in the case of the cirrhotic liver, the surface is mammillated and lobulated, the lobules being separated from one another by deep fissures ; there is deep induration, not unlike that of cancer, but more generalized. Ulcers, often intractable, sometimes malignant, are apt to form in the depths of these fissures. Gummata may develop either superficially or deeply. The super- ficial variety, often multiple, is characterized by its appearance on parts of the tongue which are not irritated, and by its breaking down and forming a gummatous ulcer early. The deep gummata arise fre- quently in the centre of the tongue, in the " avascular area," though they may be found at the sides. Men are much more liable to this manifestation of syphilis than women. The gummata develop as round or oval deep-seated tumours, which may cause great difficulty in diagnosis, simulating as they do new growths or abscesses. When they break down, wliich they are somewhat slow to do, they may lead to great destruction of the tongue substance, and appear as indolent, painless, gummatous ulcers. The gummatous ulcer is characterized by its ragged borders, some- what undermined edges, and sloughy surface ; if of long standing it may show induration ; the glands are not enlarged unless some other infection is superadded. The painlessness and slow development of the ulcer are two points of most importance in the diagnosis, but in many doubtful cases iodide and mercury must be administered before a suspicion can be converted into a certainty. Tertiary affections of the tongue, as Butlin points out, are prone to attack the dorsum. The general treatment of tertiary syphilis must be undertaken, and locally the ulcers are to be cleansed with washes and painted with chromic acid, 10 gr. to the ounce. In some obstinate cases, iodipin, given either hypodermically or by the mouth, is of very great