THE BREAST 40 be kept under observation. But in view of the mental uneasiness caused by any lump in the breast, and of the possibility of malignant change, excision is the best treatment, and is imperative if the patient is approaching middle age. The tumour, grasped firmly in the left hand, is boldly cut down upon so as to expose its capsule by an incision radiating from the nipple. It can then easily be enucleated from its surroundings. The cavity left is washed out with 1-1,000 perchloride of mercury solution to destroy any mammary epithelium set free, and is obliterated by buried sutures approximating its sides. Unless this is done a hsematoma is likely to appear. Gaillard Thomas's method.—This is a convenient opportunity to describe the operation of Gaillard Thomas—a method of removing simple tumours of the breast which avoids a subsequent visible scar. The operation depends upon the fact that the important arteries of the breast enter at the upper margin, while its posterior surface has but few vascular connexions with the retromammary tissues. The incision follows the sulcus between the breast and the chest wall, along the outer and the lower margin of the breast. The edge of the breast being exposed, the gland is stripped upwards from the great pectoral, and is at the same time rotated so as to expose its posterior surface. The tumour is removed by a radial incision into the posterior surface of the organ, or if necessary a sector of the breast may be removed. The cavity left is obliterated by buried sutures, the breast turned down into position, and the skin incision sutured. The operation, though satisfactory unless the tumour is high up in the breast, and justifiable where aesthetic considerations are dominant, is not surgically desirable, and should never be used unless the tumour is quite certainly non-malignant. Such an extensive incision renders a subsequent operation for carcinoma on proper lines impossible. Soft Fibro-Adenoma The rare soft variety of fibro-adenoma is distinguished by its rapid growth, soft or elastic consistence, and occurrence comparatively late in life. A soft fibro-adenoma may originate from a hard one, or may be soft from the beginning. Erichsen states that these tumours are commonest between the ages of 35 and 40. They are rapidly growing but innocent tumours which may in a few months attain the size of a cocoa-nut. But even when the soft fibro-adenoma attains a large size it remains mobile and painless, and does not display any tendency to adhere to the skin or fascia, or to cause enlargement of the glands. If these signs develop the tumour must be classified as a sarcoma. Soft adenoma differs from the hard variety in the nature of its stroma, which is not composed of dense fibrous tissue poor in nuclei,