329 CHRONIC DILATATION If at this stage gastric motility were estimated by any of the methods mentioned on p. 309, it would be found deficient. In many of the simple cases there is a previous history of duodenal or gastric ulcer, or of dyspepsia. Later the symptoms become characteristic : food is retained in the stomach and vomited at irregular intervals of two or three days— the vomit consists of large quantities of sour-smelling fluid, containing perhaps fragments of food taken several days before ; there are associated thirst, wasting, and constipation, and the patient presents the dry, harsh skin seen when the tissues are deprived of water. At this stage, too, free HCl is usually absent and the total acidity low, whether the dilatation be due to simple or malignant causes. Tetany may complicate gastric dilatation from any cause, but as a rule it is only seen in simple cases. Attention has been particularly directed to this by Mayo Robson, who in 1898 pointed out the necessity for surgical treatment of the gastric dilatation when this complication has supervened. Its recognition is important as, pro- bably of toxic origin, it is a serious complication and fatal in a large proportion of cases unless treated by operation. In its fully developed form it is uncommon (McKendrick in 1907 was able to collect 63 cases), but lesser degrees are far from rare. Patients complain not infrequently of formication or numbness, or of heaviness in the limbs, followed by cramps. Examination.—The enlarged stomach may be distinctly seen, reacliing in some cases as low as the pubes, and peristalsis may be noticed crossing from left to right, or it may be elicited by gently flicking the abdomen. The area of stomach-resonance is increased, and splashing sounds may be obtained over an area not usually occupied by the stomach at a time when it should be empty. When any doubt exists as to the presence of dilatation, the stomach should be distended with air or gas. The abdomen should be care- fully examined for evidences of tumour, mobile kidney, or gastroptosis, and the possibility of hour-glass contraction considered. Diagnosis.—There are two essential points to consider in the diagnosis of gastric dilatation—(1) the discovery of the dilatation ; (2) the discovery of its causation. (1) Diagnosis has to be made from—• (a) Gastroptosis.—In these patients, usually women, the history is one of vague indigestion and could only be mistaken for that of a very early stage of gastric dilatation. It is more often confused with the early symptoms of carcinoma. Distension of the stomach will show the gastroptosis, and passage of the stomach-tube will demonstrate any motor insufficiency ; if this is present it may require surgical treatment.