io62 THE FALLOPIAN TUBE felt is disproportionate to the slight inflammatory signs. In sal- pingitis the patient is flushed, the pain is and has been continuous, and fainting has not occurred. A twisted ovarian cyst presents as a tumour from the first, peculiarly defined and fluctuating, and there is no preceding amenorrhcea. A tubal abortion is often mistaken by the patient for abortion of an intra-uterine gestation, owing to the pain, the blood loss, and (when it occurs) the passage of the decidual cast. Examination, by revealing the extra-uterine mass, should point to the nature of the case, but the diagnosis of postabortional salpingitis is sometimes wrongly made in these cases. A retroverted gravid uterus when incarcerated and attempting to abort may be mistaken for tubal gestation with a hsema- tocele, and vice versa, but in the former the cervix is characteristically displaced so that the os points upwards and forwards. Intraligamentous rupture presents general features resembling acute pelvic cellulitis, but the absence of inflammatory signs, notwith- standing the size of the tumour, with the blanching and the history of pregnancy, should distinguish it. The diagnosis of later extra-uterine gestation is usually obvious, but the discrimination from intra-uterine pregnancy may be difi&cult if the secondary sac is closely fused to the side or back wall of the uterus. Treatment.—All cases up to the sixth month should be imme- diately operated upon. Some authorities prefer in the case of a hsema- tocele to await a possible natural absorption. Apart from its involving an invalidism extending over two or three months, this practice has distinct risks : (1) Fresh haemorrhage may occur, for the trophoblast continues to grow after the death of the foetus ; (2) the gestation may not be dead, but continuing its existence in a secondary sac ; (3) the heematocele may suppurate. Operation.—In acute ruptures the greatest expedition must be used, the patient meanwhile receiving saline venous infusion. The tube should be pulled up, clamped and removed, with or without the ovary according to the condition of the latter. The blood in the peritoneum is then rapidly cleared out, and the wound closed. In hsematosalpinx or hsematocele presenting less violent symptoms the technique is that of the operations for salpingitis {see p. 1054). The ovary should always, if possible, be conserved. The opposite tube is found occluded in many cases, but salpingostomy is usually feasible. Pelvic drainage is not generally necessary after removing the blood clot, but if definite fever has been present a small tube should be introduced through the lower end of the woimd for a day or two. If a broad-ligament hsematoma is found, the blood should be evacuated, the involved tube removed, and the cavity in the broad