88o THE BLADDER A rectal fistula may be attacked through the rectum or across the bladder after suprapubic cystotom}'. These methods are inferior to the perineal operation. In fistula originating above the rectum the abdomen is opened, the coils of intestine separated, the fistulous portion excised, and the ends anastomosed. The fistula is then closed. 3. Vesico-Vaginal Fistula Etiology.—Traumatic vesico-vaginal fistula is rare, apart from surgical operation or parturition. It may follow operation on the genital organs, vaginal drainage of the bladder for cystitis, or ulceration due to a pessary or to malignant or tuberculous disease. Pathology.—The common form opens directly from the bladder into the anterior fornix, less frequently into the cervix uteri. The ureter may be implicated and a vesico-utero-vaginal fistula result. There is usually extensive scarring and prolapse of the vesical mucous membrane. The vagina, vulva, and skin of the thighs are irritated and excoriated by the escaping urine. There is cystitis, and sometimes vesical calculus. Symptoms and diagnosis.~The vaginal escape of alkaline and decomposing urine is the chief symptom. In vesico-uterine fistula the urine is seen to issue from the os uteri, and coloured fluid injected into the bladder appears at the os. In vesico-utero-vaginal fistula the discovery of the ureteric orifice is assisted by the intramuscular injection of methylene blue or indigo carmine. Treatment.—Before undertaking a plastic operation the urine must be rendered aseptic, calculi removed, and vulvo-vaginitis treated. Suprapubic cystotomy should be established for at least a week before the operation. There are three methods of approach—(1) vaginal, (2) vesical, (3) peritoneal. Tiie vesical and vaginal should be combined. Various plastic operations have been practised. For a week after the operation the bladder is kept dry by means of a White's suction apparatus. NERVOUS DISEASES The nervous diseases which affect the bladder are principally spinal lesions. Cerebral disease seldom affects the organ so long as consciousness is retained, and it is doubtful if it is infiuenced by changes in the peripheral nerves. Nervous disease of the bladder gives rise to the following symptoms :— 1. Pain.—There may be either constant aching in the bladder, un- affected by micturition, or attacks of acute pain (vesical crises). 2. Increased desire and bladder spasm.—This may be the only symptom or may be one symptom in a group. It is not infrequently combined with partial retention. Spasm of the bladder may lead to active incontinence. 3. Absence of desire may result in the patient passing water only once or twice in the twenty-four hours. With this there is residual urine in varying amount. There is diminished sensibility of the bladder. 4. Diffindt micturitioyi.—This is present in almost all cases of nervous disease of the bladder in spinal lesions, and is combined with residual urine. There are delay in commencing micturition, a feeble stream, straining, and dribbling. 5. Complete retention of urine is due to paralysis of the bladder muscle. This may be present at the onset of the bladder affection, and the tone of the muscle improves later, so that micturition can be performed, but the bladder is incompletely emptied. 6 Incontinence of urine (see p. 848).