PERCUSSION-AUSCULTATION OF STOMACH 307 systematically done from below upwards. The lower border of the normal stomach does not reach the umbilicus. It is possible to mark out by percussion the adjacent areas of liver and lung, but this is of little importance in disease of the stomach. The abdomen should be percussed for evidence of free fluid ; but a considerable amount may be present without any marked increase of dullness being perceptible in the flanks. Auscultation-percussion often gives more aid than percussion alone. The stethoscope is placed about the centre of the gastric area, and light scratching movements are made on the abdominal wall, beginning near the stethoscope and working outwards ; as soon as the borders of the stomach are reached the sounds change in character. Hertz in liis recent investigations has found that the area so obtained did not show any resemblance to the true shape of the stomach as seen by X-ray examination after a bismuth meal. Auscultation alone may detect bubbling sounds or friction. It has been stated that delay in the time occupied in the passage of food from the mouth to the stomach may be of diagnostic importance in early cases of carcinoma or obstruction at the cardiac end of the stomach. Hertz has recently investigated this with the aid of X-rays, and has come to the conclusion that great variation exists in the time at which the sound is heard. It was formerly considered due to the food entering the stomach, but Hertz has shown that it does not occur until the oesophagus is empty. It can usually be heard about four seconds after swallowing, but may be delayed as long as ten seconds in normal individuals, so that little reliance can be placed upon it as a diagnostic sign. When the symptoms are indefinite, examination must be made for signs of tabes. Cases have been recorded in which gastric crises were treated by gastro-jejunostomy. There are five special methods of examination which are of use—(1) Illumination and examination of the stomach. (2) Inflation of the stomach. (3) X-ray examination. (4) Examina- tion of stomach contents. (5) Examination of fseces. 1. Illumination.—It seems that the difficult problem of inspection of the interior of the stomach by means of an instrument passed by the mouth will shortly be solved. Many attempts have been made since the introduction of the cystoscope to perfect an instrument with which the stomach could be similarly examined. Mikulicz in 1881 appears to have been the first to use the gastroscope which was constructed by Leiter with his help. The great difliculties of construction and of introduction prevented its general use, and intragastric examination remained in abeyance until the adoption of direct examination of the oesophagus