2IO THE TONGUE Inability to open the mouth is a late symptom and due to the infiltration spreading back into the tonsillar region ; rarely it is due to reflex pain. Haemorrhage in the early stages is always slight, and, even when the growth is advanced, serious hsemorrhage in the primary focus is rare, though it is more common and fatal from the secondary deposits. Course.—The disease, when once established, progresses steadily to a fatal termination within one or two years, unless arrested by operative treatment. In some cases, death has occurred as early as five months from the first appearance of the disease. To the gradual but definite spread of the lingual growth there i? added, sooner or later, the glandular infection. No exact period can be laid down before which it may be safe to assume that the glands have escaped ; it is again a question of resistance and virulence. The natural resistance which the tissues are able to offer to the spread of the growth may prevent lymphatic permeation for several months ; on the other hand, a growth of high malignancy fostered on a fertile soil may spread with appalling celerity to the glands and involve them extensively. Nor, again, are we able accurately to determine the state of the glands on clinical examination. In the early stages of their infection the small shotty glands are quite out of reach of the examining finger. It is true that a growth accompanied by sloughing and ulceration will give rise early to inflammatory glandular enlargement, an enlarge- ment which may subside after the growth has been removed, but we cannot with any safety rely on this to help us, for cancer cells may have settled in the glands at the same time as the bacteria, and, if the glands are left, these cells will, by their progressive development, ultimately render an operation for their removal imperative—an operation which perhaps has been most unwisely deferred. In all cases in which cancer in the tongue is proved we must assume infection of the glands. If the case is seen too late for operative treatment, there is notliing to look forward to but a horrible, lingering agony, to which the final complication comes as a great relief. Progressively, the ulcer increases in size; food is taken only with difficulty; pain, fetor, and salivation combine to render the patient unbearable to himself and to those who surround him ; the glands enlarge, break down and ulcerate; and death is happily ushered in by a fatal hsemorrhage or a low form of pneumonia. Probably few have watched the final struggles of these exhausted patients, and only those who have can realize the extent of the misery which the disease entails. It is well that this should be fully appreciated before a decision is arrived at that a case