175 MERCURIAL GLOSSITIS They should be made freely with a curved bistoury. The relief is almost immediate, and severe bleeding is rare. Modern treatment naturally suggests the use of vaccines, especially in the streptococcal infections. The diet in parenchymatous glossitis should be the same as in the superficial form (p. 173). Mercurial Glossitis This affection is still occasionally seen, though much more rarely than formerly. It is distinguished from the preceding by the history, by the general oedematous state of the tongue, which is softer than in true parenchymatous glossitis, and by the accompanying affection of the gums, which are tender, swollen, and vascular. The fetor is very great, and the salivation even more profuse. There is considerable tendency to sloughing. Treatment consists in stopping all mercury, giving 2 drachms of sulphate of magnesia at once, and 10-15 gr. of chlorate of potash every four hours up to a drachm. Leeches may be applied to the submaxillary region, and ice should be sucked. Incision may be, but rarely is, required. When the acute symptoms disappear, salvarsan is of value, and tonics are demanded. On no account should iodide of potash be given. It must be borne in mind that small doses of mercury may produce this condition in susceptible subjects. Cases are recorded of acute inflammation of the tongue having followed the repeated administra- tion of blue pill or calomel for purposes other tlian the treatment of syphilis. 3. UNILATERAL INFLAMMATION A unilateral condition, hemiglossitis, is described but is very rare. It is never very acute, and should be treated on the same main lines as the above ; incisions are not required. A form of indurative glossitis, rather chronic in nature, is some- times caused by the impaction of a salivary calculus in Wharton's duct. 4. INFLAMMATION OF THE LINGUAL TONSIL This condition results from an infection of the lymphoid follicles which, collected together at the base of the tongue, form the mass described as the lingual tonsil. In some cases there is a general infection of the throat and base of the tongue, the faucial tonsils being the parts chiefly affected, in others the process seems confined to the hngual base. The trouble is common in the dry days of summer, especially in towns, and is probably due to irritation set up by inhaled