991 MALIGNANT DISEASE seen. Lipomas may occur in the labia majora or mons veneris. Very rarely solid adenomas springing from the sebaceous or odoriferous glands have been recorded. The treatment in all cases consists in excision. VULVAL NEW GROWTHS MALIGNANT GROWTHS Squamous-celled carcinoma of tlie vulva is not uncommon, and its almost constant association with a pre-existing leucoplakic vulvitis (p. 988) lias been noted. There are three common clinical forms—(1) the warty, (2) the ulcerative, and (3) a superficial erosive, which at first sight does not perhaps suggest malignancy. The disease occurs in old women, and may at first run a slow course. Eventually the inguinal glands become affected, rapidly enlarge, and soften and break down. There is a fourth, and rarer, type, viz. that analogous to " sweeps' cancer" of the scrotum, which usually begins on the labia majora. Lastly, examples of adeno-carcinoma of glandular origin are on record. Sarcoma of the vulva is known, and is sometimes of the melanotic variety. Treatment.—The Avhole vulva should be excised, together with the inguinal glands on both sides. In excising the vulva, two incisions are required, an outer, which comprises the whole area, and an inner, to exclude the orifices of the vagina and urethra. At the conclusion of the operation these latter are stitched to the skin edges of the wound. THE VAGINA DEFORMITIES AND DISPLACEMENTS In early foetal life the Miillerian ducts end blindly in the Miillerian tubercle, an eminence lying in relation with the bladder and Wolffian ducts in front, tlie lower bowel behind, and the urogenital sinus below. The Miillerian ducts fuse below to form the uterus and vagina, and the tissue between the Miillerian tubercle and the wall of the urogenital, sinus is gradually hollowed out until the vagina opens on the surface. IMPERFORATE VAGINA ("IMPERFORATE HYMEN") Etiology.—This condition is caused by failure of the fused' Miillerian tube to perforate the wall of the urogenital sinus. The septum represents part of the wall of the urogenital sinus. The hymen itself is never imperforate, and in these cases it may be seen stretched! out on the septum, but not forming part of it.