736 THE LIVER peritoneum should be protected by gauze packing. The abscess is then opened by forceps, and the finger introduced and any secondary abscesses opened. Drainage is secured by a large rubber tube, 1 in. in diameter, wrapped round with gauze to prevent pus oozing up by its sides before the liver adheres to the parietes. During the first two days the pus should be sterile, and after that should only contain amoebae. Every care must be taken to avoid secondary infection if the abscess is to close rapidly. As a rule the cavity rapidly contracts, but the hepatic enlargement may only slowly decrease. It is often- necessary to aid drainage of large cavities by initiating a siphon action through the tube. Sometimes there may be a considerable discharge of bile, which only ceases gradually. INFECTIVE GRANULOMATA Tuberculosis of the liver is rare. It may take the form of solitary masses, and localized abscesses have been operated upon successfully. The liver may be enlarged, but usually there are no distinctive diagnostic features. Syphilis Only the tertiary manifestations are of surgical interest. Gummata, either single or multiple, may occur, often as late as five to twenty years after infection. They form yellowish masses, accompanied by perihepatitis, and sometimes by diffuse sclerosis and lardaceous disease. The dome of the right lobe is most commonly affected, and the diaphragm often invaded. Another common site is near the portal fissure. They may become absorbed, leaving scars which by their contraction tend to cause syphilitic cicatrization or even lobulation of the liver, or they may break down, become infected, and simulate abscesses. Jaundice is rare, but ascites may be present if the gumma obstructs the portal vein. Treatment.—Exploration may be advised in cases that have resisted medical treatment. If the diagnosis is confirmed the abdomen may be closed and remedies persevered with, but when there is doubt the mass may be excised or opened and some tissue scooped out for examination. This interference may hasten the effect of the appro- priate therapeutic measures, described in Vol. I. CIRRHOSIS For the treatment of the ascites an operation, now generally known as omentopexy, was devised independently by Talma of Utrecht, and Drummond and Morison of Newcastle-upon-Tyne, and first success- fully practised by Morison in 1895. This operation aims at establishing an efficient collateral venous circulation between the abdominal wall and the omentum and viscera, thus helping to carry off the portal blood.