910 THE PROSTATE focus. Tlie pathological anatomy of the disease does not differ from that of tuberculosis elsewhere. The tuberculous process usually com- mences at the periphery of the gland, and then invades the centre ; the tubercles coalesce to form soft caseous areas in the gland, which may burst into the urethra, the perineum, the bladder, or the rectum. Symptoms.—Tuberculosis of the prostate may be latent for months or years, and is fi'equently discovered during a routine examin- ation of the prostate and vesiculse in the investigation of a case of testicular, renal, or vesical tuberculosis. Even when symptoms are present they are not pathognomonic, for they closely resemble those of any form of inflammation of the base of the bladder. The symptoms are pain, frequency, and difiiculty of micturition, unrelieved by treatment; a burning, aching pain in the perineum and round the anus, and the presence of blood in the urine and sejgaen. The hsematuria is usually seen at the end of micturition, and is slight, but is increased by instrumentation of the urethra. The haemospermia is also slight, and may be absent. A urethral discharge may be present, but its diagnostic importance is minimized by the difiiculty of estabhsh- ing its prostatic origin and of demonstrating tubercle bacilli in it. Diagnosis.—This depends on rectal examination combined with evidence of tuberculosis elsewhere in the body, but especially in the genito-urinary tract. On examination the prostate is foimd to be somewhat enlarged and feels nodular, the nodules being small and isolated and more uneven than in any other disease. The gland is tender ; in advanced cases fluctuation is present, and the seminal vesicles can frequently be felt to be affected. Tuberculosis of the prostate may not be suspected imtil a fluctuat- ing swelling is found in the perineum or bulging the anterior rectal wall. Examination of the urethra by the sound and endoscope, or exam- ination of the bladder by the cystoscope, is of little value in the diag- nosis. These examinations are unnecessary, and may result in severe haematuria or cystitis. The prognosis, as in all other forms of genito-urinary tuberculosis, is not very favourable, but cure may result if other parts of the tract are not seriously involved. Treatment.—The treatment consists, for the most part, of general hygienic measures and vaccine inoculation. All local applica- tions to the deep urethra are to be avoided, as they can do no good to the tuberculous process in the substance of the gland. Catheterization for the relief of pain and difiiculty of micturition is useless as a lasting resource, and continuous catheterization cannot be borne. When the pain and urgency of micturition become intoler- able, the bladder should be opened and permanently drained by a suprapubic incision.