656 HERNIA faecal vomiting lias occurred. The prognosis is grave, especially in elderly subjects, and the case may progress to abscess and gangrene of the lung. 2. General peritonitis may result from subsequent sloughing or perforation of the returned bowel. The only possible treatment is immediate laparotomy and cleansing of the abdomen, the bowel being brought into the wound as already described, and the abdomen drained through both loins and above the pubes. The prognosis is usually fatal, recovery, when it occurs, depending on the interval which has elapsed, the amount of extravasation, and the strength of the patient. 3. Paralytic ileus may supervene on release of the strangulation, or may be actually present when the case is first seen, the vomiting, distension, and inability to pass flatus persisting. No time should be lost in opening the caecum or lower end of the ileum. Owing to the vomiting, drugs can seldom be given by the mouth, and, if the ileus is absolute, Uttle can be done. When the strangulation has been seen late in the case this danger is to be feared ; it is well to open the abdomen by a small incision above the umbiHcus, and, drawing out a loop of the jejunum, to inject into it 3 or 4 drachms of magnesium sulphate with 10 minims of tincture of nux vomica, closing the puncture by a fine purse-string suture. Puncture of the coils of intestine by means of a trocar and cannula is a tedious process, and seldom succeeds. The prognosis is commonly fatal, and prophylaxis is better than attempts at cure. Eserine or pituitrin hypodermically will help. 4. Stenosis may occur at the site of constriction, or when anasto- mosis has been performed, especially when a Murphy's button has been used. In a case of my own, stenosis followed simple reduction four months after operation in another hospital, and resulted in adhesion to the abdominal wall, ulceration above the constriction, and a faecal abscess of the abdominal wall. This necessitated excision of the caecum, appendix, and ten inches of ileum, and, on recovery, the cure of the resulting hernia by implantation of a large abdominal filigree. Symptoms of dyspepsia, distension, anorexia, and constipation should suggest the possibihty of this compUcation, especially where the bowel has been slow in recovering its vitahty at the original operation. Prognosis in strangulated hernia.—The probabilities of recovery in an imcomphcated case depend on the duration and character of the vomiting, the age of the patient, and his general condition. Up to the time of the vomit becoming faeculent the patient is well within the period of grace ; when this point has been passed and the odour of the vomit shows the presence of jejimal contents, the prognosis must be considered grave, especially if the vomit is copious, frequent,