951 HYDROCELE patient should be frankly assured that the condition is natural and no treatment is necessary. For frequent emissions with bad after- effects, the treatment consists in careful sexual hygiene after treatment of any local condition such as phimosis. The diet should be spare and unstimulating, and alcohol is to be avoided, especially in the evening. Mental occupation, with a sufficiency of healthy outdoor exercises, the avoidance of prurient thoughts and literature, are all- important. Engorgement of the prostate in the early morning, due to the full bladder, is a source of irritability, and can be readily removed by emptying the bladder immediately on waking. Cold sponging of the genitals or cold baths are also useful. Drugs other than aperients are of little use, but general tonics may be useful. Sedatives such as bromide of potassium, hyoscyamus, cannabis indica, or opium may be tried, but they are of little use without careful regulation of the sexual life. THE SPERMATIC CORD AND TUNICA VAGINALIS HYDROCELE Hydroceles may be either primary or secondary, and it is advisable to discuss the latter first. Secondary Hydrocele This form of hydrocele may be divided into acute and chronic. 1. Acute secondary hydroceles are generally due to inflammations or injuries of the testis, the most common being gonorrhoeal epididymo- orchitis, but they also occur with the orchitis of the specific infective fevers. These hydroceles are cases of vaginalitis, the inflammation of the tunica vaginalis being secondary to the inflammation of the testis, and the effusion inflammatory in origin and nature. The condition is frequently unnoticed, as it is masked by the symptoms of the acute inflammation of the testis, and the treatment is identical with the treatment of the primary inflammation. Resolution is by far the commonest result, but suppuration occurs in a certain number of cases, and the tunica has to be drained {see Acute Epididymo-Orchitis, p. 933). Acute hydroceles also occur with acute inflammation of the scrotum or spermatic cord, or they may be secondary to acute torsion of the testis. In this latter condition the fluid is usually blood-stained. 2. Chronic secondary hydrocele is also generally due to a chronic vaginalitis secondary to chronic inflammation of the testis, as in tubercular epididymo-orchitis and sypliihtic orchitis. In some cases chronic hydroceles are passive effusions into the cavity of the tunica vaginalis, as in cases secondary to neoplasm of the testis.