MAMMARY SARCOMA 99 after, a single definite blow. Bland-Sutton has drawn attention to the possible medico-legal importance of this fact. Fibro-adenoma and sarcoma.—A fibro-adenoma, after persist- ing for years without marked change, may take on rapid growth, and may in a few months form a large tumour to which the name soft fibro-adenoma is applied. As a rule, when the breast is removed, the tumour is still found to be encapsuled, and it does not recur. In other cases a small tumour present for some i'^a"*'^ " of the sarcomatous type, and that the soft fibro-adenoma is either an intermediate form or an intermediate stage in the conversion. Tliese statements, thougli not generally accepted, are, in my opinion, correct.^ The routine histological examination of tumours of the breast lias shown that sarcoma of the breast is much less frequent than it was formerly thought to be. Tliough some authors say that one malignant tumour of the breast in fifty is a true sarcoma, this is probably an over-statement. Many cases which present the clinical signs of sarcoma turn out to be soft carcinomas, others to be cystic adenomas. Sarcoma of the male breast is excessively rare. Age-incidence.—Though it may occur at any age from childhood upwards, Rodman finds that sarcoma, like carcinoma, is a disease of middle life, and that half the cases occur between the ages of 40 and 50. time in the breast be- gins to grow rapidly, and a large hemispherical mass is produced which soon fungates through the skin. On removal an unencapsuled sarcoma is found to be infiltrating the breast. If we re- member, in conjunction with these facts, that the microscopic appear- ances of a soft fibro- adenoma resemble very closely those of a sar- coma, we may explain the statement made by various autliorities that a fibro-adenoma may be- come a malignant tumour Fig. 286.—Spindle-celled sarcoma of the breast. > 250. Note the complete disappearance of the normal glandular elements of the breast. This is charac- teristic of sarcoma. ' But see Vol. I., p. 433.