ACUTE MASTITIS OF LACTATION 15 matous mastitis for suppurative inflammation of the breast. No incision should be made into the breast unless the signs of abscess are definite. The treatment of milk engorgement is to empty the breasts, to relieve pain and congestion, and to support the heavy breast by a sling or bandage. The first object is best attained by gentle massage directed from the periphery of the breast towards the nipple. Rodman recommends the use of a mixture of lanoline 1 part, and ben- zoated lard 7 parts, as a friction application, the mixture being melted on a water-bath each time it is used. Hot fomentations in the inter- vals of massage relieve pain and congestion, but are likely to increase the risk of suppuration, and in slight cases a cold evaporating lotion is better treatment. A mild purgative is given. If further lactation is not desired, glycerine of belladonna should be applied to the breast and a course of " white mixture " or potassium iodide ordered. Lastly, and perhaps most important, the nipple must be washed with boric lotions, and a mild mercurial ointment should be ordered if there is any crack or abrasion, provided that the breast is not being used for suckling. The breast must be relieved at intervals by the cautious use of the breast-pump. If any crack or abrasion is present upon the nipple of an en- gorged breast, or if bacteria invade the milk-ducts, the engorgement passes by imperceptible degrees into a true bacterial inflammation or acute mastitis. T. H. C. Benians has recently found that, in a large proportion of cases, Staphylococcus pyogenes aureus is present in pure culture. In a certain number of cases, streptococci, and more rarely Staphylococcus pyogenes albus, are found, generally mixed with <S. pyogenes aureus. Occasionally in puerperal septicjemia the micro- organisms may gain access to the mammary gland by way of the blood, but mammary abscess is not a common complication of puer- peral fever. Cohn and Neumann find that staphylococci sometimes occur in the milk from normal breasts. If there is obstruction to the milk- ducts the bacteria rapidly increase in number, the imprisoned milk forming an ideal medium for the multiplication of the bacteria which are rarely absent from the region of the nij^ple. According to Benians the course of events is as follows : When suckling ceases, staphy- lococci multiply in the stagnant milk, and clotting ensues. The irritation caused by the milk-clot, the bacteria and their products, leads to invasion by leucocytes. If these cells are unable to destroy or to render inert the bacteria, a mammary abscess results. The Staphylococcus pyogenes aureus is the usual cause of abscesses produced by obstruction to the flow of milk. In cases where a strepto- coccus is found a cracked nipple is usually present, and the infection