CANCER OF THE MALE BREAST 85 disease of the nipple lias been present, it is not unlikely that the disease may be of the columnar-celled variety. But the distinction between columnar- and spheroidal-celled cancer is not one of great clinical importance, since in either case the treatment is the same. It is, however, essential to recognize clearly that the absence of signs of contraction and adhesion is not inconsistent with the presence of a carcinoma of the duct variety. Carcinoma of the male breast—The male breast is Hable to most of the diseases which affect the female breast. Chronic mastitis, adenoma, sarcoma, duct jaapilloma, and other conditions occur as rarities in the male. But the only disease whose comparative frequency gives it importance is carcinoma, which may be of the spheroidal- or the columnar- or the squamous-celled variety. The disease appears later in men than in women, and in nine cases collected by C. Keyser Fig. 282.—Cystic duct papilloma passing into duct carcinoma. The papillomatous growths beneath the nipple are com- mencing to infiltrate the surrounding tissues. (^Fronl a case jiiuicr the 'lur/U'r's caiw I'lie s/^cciiiicn h prcscr-,'ed in the Middlesex Hospital Mnieuiii.) the average age was 61 years. J. R. Lunn has recorded a case of duct cancer in a man of 91, and this appears to be the oldest age on record in this connexion. Of 100 breast cancers, only one occurs in a male. A history of definite injury is common. The disease begins as a liutton-like induration, at first mobile, situated beneath or near the nipple. Later, adhesion to skin or fascia develops, the axillary glands become enlarged, and, by the time the growth has reached the size of a walnut, ulceration sets in. In more than half the cases the tumour is ulcerated when the surgeon first sees it. This may be accounted for by the absence of pain prior to ulceration, and the freedom of men from dread of this particular disease. In all its essential features, cancer of the male breast is identical with the same disease in the female. It requires treatment on the same lines and by an equally fi-ee operation. There can be little doubt, however, that operations for cancer of the male breast