79° THE KIDNEY lower poles across the aorta and vena cava. The fused kidneys lie nearer the middle line than normal, and are displaced downwards, the uniting band frequently lying as low as the bifurcation of the aorta. The bond of union varies from a flat band of fibrous tissue to a definite bridge of renal tissue. The blood-vessels of each kidney are frequently increased in number and abnormal in distribution; the ureters pass down in front of the uniting band. Diagnosis depends upon the discovery of a horse-shoe-like swelling in front of the lumbar vertebrae, and the discovery of a hydronephrosis or of shadows of calculi which lie nearer the middle line than usual. This malformation has been mistaken for a malignant growth. In unilateral fused kidney the ureters may open in the normal position and lead to the view that two normal kidneys are present. The course of the ureters can be demonstrated by passing into each a bougie opaque to the X-rays. Fixed Misplacement op the Kidney The fixed misplaced kidney is occasionally normal in size and contour, but usually shows considerable malformation. The remaining kidney, if not fused, is sometimes absent or atrophied. The misplaced kidney is found at the bifurcation of the aorta, on the promontory of the sacrum, over the sacro-iliac synchondrosis, in the iliac fossa, or the hollow of the sacrum. The suprarenal capsule accompanies it. If one kidney only is misplaced, it is usually the left. The renal vessels are, as a rule, abnormal in origin, number and distribution; malposition of the colon and rectum and genital malformations are frequently present. Symptoms and diagnosis.—Disease of a misplaced kidney fre- quently gives rise to pain in the corresponding lumbar region, and this may distract attention from the real cause of the symptom. Renal misplacement seldom causes symptoms jyer se. In women a pelvic kidney may disturb menstruation, pregnancy, and parturition. The diagnosis will rest upon the discovery of a tumour on the promontory or in the pelvis, the absence of the kidney from the same side, and sometimes upon signs of renal disease in the urine. Tumours of the pelvic organs, especially ovarian cysts, and also hydatid cysts must be excluded. The rectum may be shown by air in- flation to pursue an abnormal course. A very short ureter has been observed on catheterization. Psychic disturbances have been noted. A doubtful tumour in this situation usually necessitates a laparotomy for diagnosis. Treatment.—When the existence of a second efficient kidney has been certainly ascertained, the presence of pronounced symptoms justifies removal of the misplaced organ. CONGENITAL ABNORMALITIES OF THE EENAL PELVIS AND URETER The renal pelvis may bifurcate into its upper and lower branches before entering the renal hilum, or may even sometimes show a third primary division. Unilateral duplication of the ureter occurs in 4 per cent, of bodies ; it may affect a part or the whole length of the tube, which may open into the bladder by one or two apertures. The ureter wliicli drains the upper part of the kidney usually crosses that from the lower part, and opens lower on the trigone. Bilateral double ureters are of less frequent occurrence. Five and even six ureters have been found in one individual.