462 THE INTESTINES FOREIGN BODIES IN THE INTESTINE The great majority of foreign bodies that have been swallowed and have successfully passed the pylorus, safely traverse the remaining ' segments of the alimentary canal and are passed by the rectum. The facility with which large and irregular objects pass along the intestinal canal is remarkable. In its passage along the bowel, a foreign body may become encrusted with fgecal matter and phosphates, and, while this may add to the bulk of the object, it at the same time renders its passage safer by rounding off sharp angles or filKng up crevices and hooks, as, for example, in the case of a small tooth-plate. Some metaUic objects undergo a certain degree of solution, while organic bodies, such as bones, may be partly digested. Clinical features.—The passage of a foreign body along the intestine is seldom attended with any symptoms beyond slight coUcky pain and occasional vomiting. The time taken for an insoluble body to traverse the bowel varies from forty-eight hours to two or three weeks. Irregular bodies are sometimes temporarily arrested and cause localized irritation of the mucous membrane with symptoms of enteritis, in the form of fever, severe griping pain and tenderness, distension, and diarrhoea, with pus and blood in the stools. As the most common site of arrest is in the lower part of the ileum, at the ileo-csecal valve, or in the cfecum, the local symptoms are generally referred to the right ihac fossa. If the body is long detained, localized peritonitis may ensue with muscular rigidity of the abdominal wall over the site of arrest. Foreign bodies may be permanently arrested at the narrowest part of the gut—that is, the ileo-csecal region—or by a stricture of the bowel, the most common cause of which is malignant disease of the colon. In a few recorded cases, a foreign body has been arrested in a hernia, or in a pouch or diverticulum of the bowel. Only in very rare cases does a foreign body arrested in a normal portion of the bowel cause obstruction, but when the lumen is narrowed by disease and becomes occluded by an object, such as a fruit- stone, a piece of bone, or a gall-stone, acute symptoms may supervene. The more serious effects of permanent arrest are due to septic com- plications following enteritis and ulceration, and ending in perforation. Cases have been recorded in wliich locaUzed peritonitis has led to abscess formation, and the foreign body has passed into the abscess and escaped through the abdominal wall. In other cases the object has found its way into the bladder or other viscus. Treatment.—To facilitate the passage of a foreign body along the intestine, the patient should be fed on such foods as porridge.