207 LINGUAL CARCINOMA must operate at the earliest possible moment; by surgical activity in the unstable precancerous stage we may hope to avert a malignant catastrophe, while by extensive operations along modern lines when the disease has declared itself we may hope to improve results which in the past have been indeed deplorable. Pathology.—Most cancers of the tongue are squamous-celled epitheliomas, due to the downgrowth of epithelial columns from the surface. Steiner has recorded a case of columnar carcinoma. Starting from the surface, the cells penetrate between the muscular fibres in a series of vertical columns which tend to anastomose and to develop cell-nests ; it is the presence of a number of these cell-nests, due to a corneous degeneration of the central cells of the tubular down- growth, which conclusively denotes a cancer on section. Tliis spread is accompanied by an active proliferation of round connective- tissue cells at the periphery, a reaction which we must regard as in part protective, a poor attempt to limit the relentless growth. It is the connective-tissue proliferation which produces the "infiltration" of the tongue substance, and is also responsible for the fixation of the organ that occurs at a later date. The superficial cells of the growth degenerate partly from lack of nutrition, partly as the result of the action of the connective-tissue cells, and thus give rise to surface ulceration. Those cases where the growth appears as a nodule in the tongue substance are examples of delay of the degeneration and consequent ulceration. In some instances the growth and spread of the epithelial cells is extraordinarily rapid, and the term medullary carcinoma is applied. In others the process is slow and is accompanied by the develop- ment of mature fibrous tissue from the active connective-tissue cells surrounding the downgrowth of epithelium ; this form is sometimes referred to as the scirrhous type. The importance of these varieties in course and prognosis will be considered later. Glandular infection.— Sooner or later the cancer cells detached from the primary focus find their way into the lymphatic channels and reach the glands which drain the region. These have been already described. The glands, when attacked, increase in size, and at first appear as hard movable masses, tending later to fuse and to undergo two special changes peculiar to secondary cancer of the tongue, mouth, and lip, namely, cystic degeneration and suppuration. The cystic change is mainly the result of necrosis of the central cells ; suppuration is due to a bacterial infection which accompanies the cancer cells to their destination in the glands. Clinical appearance and classification.—Cancer of the tongue appears in a number of different forms, the variation being due, first, to the primary condition of the organ in which the growth