202 THE TONGUE If operation becomes advisable in the pure muscular variety, it should consist in removal of a wedge-shaped piece of tongue, rather than in ligation of the lingual arteries—a method which is neither certain nor safe. 3, 4, 5. Inflammatory, Syphilitic, and Mercurial Enlargements Inflammatory enlargement is merely the result of an acute glossitis, after which a large indurated area may be left. Syphilitic hypertrophy has been considered in connexion with syphilitic parenchymatous glossitis (p. 194). The condition calls for no special treatment. With regard to mercurial enlargement, it should be remembered that excessive use of mercury in syphilis tends to exaggerate any existing hypertrophy, and that the drug may even produce an inflammatory enlargement by its own action. INNOCENT TUMOURS The tongue is rarely the seat of a simple growth—a marked contrast to its ready tendency to undergo mahgnant change. Innocent tumours of many varieties have been described, such as lipomas, recognized by their yellowish colour when superficial ; fibromas; chondromas ; localized or general lymphangiomas ; neuro-fibromas ; myomas of both striped and unstriped types ; amyloid masses in the subjects of chronic bronchitis and emphysema ; and even osseous tumours and those of a teratoid nature. Many of these growths are of the greatest rarity, and may be regarded as being more of pathological interest than of clinical importance. In general they will be treated by removal if the tumour appears to be a source of discomfort or danger Vascular Tumours On the other hand, the vascular tumours are not only a good deal commoner than the preceding, but since they may be the source of dangerous hfemorrhage they must be specially considered. Among the vascular tumours, examples of arterio-venous aneurysm have been met with, as the result of injury. They have occurred usually on the floor of the mouth, and have been treated by ligation of the lingual arteries. A few instances of cirsoid aneurysm have been recorded ; one half of the tongue, in the published cases, being occupied by large tortuous arteries which bled violently as the result of injury. N^VI Nsevi, both capillary and cavernous, are much more common. The capillary form may be congenital in origin, or may appear later.