THE TESTIS 944 of treatment, but whether it can usually be done with safety to the patient has yet to be decided.^ Pathology.—The difficulty of classification of new growths is perhaps more marked in connexion with the testis than with anj' other organ, in consequence of their great variety and complexity of structure. Recent researches and observation have, however, done much to simplify the confusion, and the following growths can now be differentiated by the microscope :— 1. Sarcoma, (a) Round-celled.—These tumours show in every part masses of small round cells invading the normal testicular sub- stance. They are the most common form of sarcoma. (b) Spindle-celled.—These tumours are much rarer than the round- celled growths, but show the same structure in every part of the growth. (c) Lymphosarcoma.—These tumours show the reticular structure of lymph-glands, but are hardly to be differentiated from the small round-celled sarcomas. 2. Endothelioma.—Endotheliomas are rare, but show the same histological characteristics in the testis as in other organs. 3. Carcinoma.—These tumours may be either columnar-celled or spheroidal-celled, according as they arise in the ducts or in the glandular substance of the testis, or frequently the cells may be of comparatively undifferentiated type. Like the sarcomas, they are uniform in structure, and are exactly comparable with carcinomas in other glandular organs. 4. Teratoid growtlis. {See Teratomas, below.) TERATOMAS ^ These tumours have been described under various names; of these the most common are fibro-cystic disease (Plate 105, Fig. 2), adenoma, chondroma, chondroma complex, chondro-sarcoma, chondro- carcinoma, embryoma, chorion-epithelioma. These names indicate the complex nature of the growths and the extraordinary diversity of the tissues found in them ; examination of single specimens has led to great difference of opinion as to their nature. Clinically they may show every type, from a slowly growing encapsuled and apparently innocent tumour to a highly malignant growth destroying life by metastasis in a few weeks. They are most common between the ages of 30 and 40. In all cases examination of some part of the tumour shows a simple 1 Since writing the above I have removed the glands lying along the aorta, the common iliac, and the external iliac artery, in a boy of 11, with complete success. 2 See also Vol. I., p. 586.