613 HERNIA WITHOUT A SAG of the ileum, usually within 3 ft. of the ileo-CtX^cal valve, and is generally attached by a terminal narrow band to the umbilical site. Strictly speaking, therefore, it should be associated with umbilical hernia. Since, however, it may be found in the sacs of other hernias, it is given a special place, and the term has been loosely applied to any hernia in which the diverticulum is involved. The diverticulum varies from a mere prominence on the surface of the bowel to a tube 3 to 5 in. in length, with, at times, a diameter almost as great as the bowel from which it springs. Its strangulation therefore pro- duces symptoms and results exactly similar to those of Richter's hernia, witli the ex- ception that when the diverti- culum is well developed the operative treatment is simplified and the mortality is lessened. Hernia in the absence of a sac. — Although it is hardly accurate to say that a hernia may occur without a sac, certain protrusions of viscera do occur uncovered, or only partial]}'' covered, by parietal peritoneum. In these cases a sac either has disappeared by an alteration in the position of the hernia, or can be found lying to one side of the main mass of Fig. 457.—Extraperitoneal hernia of the protrusion. Such instances sigmoid. are to be found in hernias of the o !■ , Pubes ; r., rectus muscle ; i-.r,, peritoneal . , Till! rejection ; sigmoid colon ; s.", scrotum. Ccecum. sigmoid, and bhitlder. Hernias of the caecum and sigmoid frequently differ in no respect from other inguinal hernias, and these organs are of moderately common occurrence in large hernial sacs. But at times, especially in general enteroptosis (Glenard's disease), the cax'um and sigmoid descend from the iliac fossae by a process of slipping of the iliac peritoneum {Jiernie en glissade), leaving the abdomen either as a direct or, much less commonly, as an indirect hernia. At first a sac is present, but later, as the hernia enlarges, the peritoneum of which it was composed assumes a more and more anterior position, the bowel coming down from behind it. Ultimately only a partial sac is to be found in front and high up, the bowel itself forming the posterior and inferior wall of the sac (Fig. 457). Some of these