SYPHILITIC EPIDIDYMO-ORCHITIS 939 of 12, out of 11,493 patients under that age. The disease has been seen a few weeks after birth. It is usually insidious in onset, and presents the same physical signs as in the adult, but associated disease of the vesiculse and prostate is uncommon. The disease starts in the epididymis, which it probably reaches through the blood-stream. It is, however, frequently associated with tuberculous peritonitis, and according to some authors with tuberculosis of the vertebrae (Pott's disease). Prognosis is bad, the inflammation usually ending in suppura- tion and sinus formation. Treatment.—This does not differ from the treatment of the disease in the adult, but early castration is to be advised, to prevent, if possible, infection of the peritoneum. Local scraping and epididym- ectomy are unsatisfactory in these small testes. Syphilitic Epididymo-Orchitis Syphilis affects the testis in the secondary, intermediary, tertiary, and inherited varieties of the disease, but is most commonly met with in the intermediary stage, i.e. two to four years after infection. During the early secondary stage the epididymis is chiefly affected, the patient suffering from a symmetrical subacute epididymitis wliich is painless and mainly localized to the globus major. The condition is rare, but probably frequently passes unnoticed among the other manifestations of secondary sypliilis. In the intermediary and tertiary stages the body of the testis is chiefly affected, the lesion being a chronic orchitis ending either in gumma formation or in diffuse fibrosis and later atrophy of the testis. These two conditions fi-equently occur together, the organ on section showing a general fibrosis with small gummata. Physical signs.—In a well-marked case of syphilitic orchitis (see Plate 79, Vol. I., facing p. 746) the following physical signs are present: The skin of the scrotum, at first normal, becomes adherent to the fi'ont of the testis ; and later, if the disease is untreated, a large piece of the skin sloughs away, exposing the characteristic wash-leather slough of a gummatous ulcer. Through the hole in the skin thus made the testis may fungate. The body of the testis is at first uniformly enlarged and painless, but later, if multiple gummata form, it may become nodular. The organ feels light if weighed in the hand, and testicular sensation is lost early. The epididymis, vas deferens, and spermatic cord are usually normal, but thickening of the vas and gummata of the epididymis have been described. If the epididymis is unaffected it is frequently diflicult to differentiate it fi'om the enlarged body. Rectal examination reveals no lesion of the vesiculse and prostate, and there is no enlargement of