12 THE BREAST associated witli chronic eczema, but the growth is usually acinous or spheroidal-celled, and accordingly the mass which it forms is unconnected at first with the eczematous areola, from which all induration is absent. Pathology of Paget's disease.— Darier in 1889, sup- ported by Wickham in 1890, declared that Paget's disease was due to infection of the skin by psorosperms, small parasitic algse allied to the diatoms, frequently found in the liver of the rabbit and in certain, fishes. Subsequent observers have shown that the sup- posed psorosperms in the skin of the areola are really vacuoles or secretion granules, or are appearances due to the degeneration of the epithelial cells. The psorosperm theory, abandoned by its originator, now finds very few supporters. As far back as 1881, George Thin stated the view that in Paget's disease—or, as he called it, malignant papillary dermatitis—a car- cinoma originating in the epithelium of the ducts near the nipple was the precursor of the changes in the skin of the areola. He believed the eczema to result from the irritant discharge of the carcinoma. Thin's view is probably true in some cases, but it is not applicable to most, for as a rule the carcinoma forms a lump in the breast isolated from the nipple by a considerable extent of clinically normal breast tissue, and is of acinous type. Schambacher (1905) maintained that Paget's disease is a carcinoma originating within the epidermis and subsequently spreading along the milk-ducts. This view seems to be entirely negatived by the absence of any sign of neoplastic overgrowth in the eczematous skin. My own views upon Paget's disease may be succinctly stated as follows : A carcinoma which may be either a duct carcinoma or one of acinous type originates in the breast. Frequently this carcinoma is of a somewhat atrophic variety, and it is known that an atrophic scirrhus may be present in the breast for years without producing any palpable lump. While still in the impalpable stage the carcinoma may permeate the lymphatics of the breast, many of which may be subsequently converted by fibrosis into sohd strands of fibrous tissue. Considerable disturbance in the lymphatic cir- culation results, especially in the region of the nipple, which in middle- aged women is the most dependent part of the breast. Eczema of the nipple is merely a secondary manifestation of impaired lymphatic return from the skin of the areolar district, though it may precede by some years the stage in which the original carcinoma can be felt as a definite lump. Eczema as the result of lymphatic obstruction is frequently seen upon the sodden skin of the leg in elephantiasis, and even venous obstruction is competent to produce a like condition, as in the common case of varicose eczema. The swelling and vacuo-