775 PANCREATIC LITHIASIS—FISTULA not so deep, nor is wasting so marked, while characteristic changes are more likely to be found in the urine, and the duration is longer. Prognosis.—The disease seldom lasts longer than six to twelve months, and may end fatally in a much shorter period. Treatment.—New growths limited to the tail, and even some in the body of the gland, have been successfully removed. Tumours arising in the head of the gland have occasionally been shelled out, but Desjardins, in 1907, worked out experimentally an operation for com- plete excision of this part of the gland which gives promise of success. As a palliative measure, cholecystentercstomy is sometimes available, and may be worth while merely to relieve the intense itching. If the signs of cancer are not unequivocal this operation should certainly be performed, for it may cure a doubtful case. PANCREATIC LITHIASIS Pancreatic calculi are very rare. Though usually only discovered after death, they have been found during life, either in the faeces or in the course of operation, and have occasionally been diagnosed and deliberately removed. The calculi are long and oval, or resemble coral, and vary in size from material like sand to masses as big as a hazel-nut. Chemically, they are composed of carbonate and phosphate of lime or magnesia, and are, therefore, opaque to the Rontgen rays. Symptoms may be entirely absent; and. in any case, none can be claimed as pathognomonic. In some cases, after attacks of pain like gall- stone colic, but most intense under the left costal arch and in the left shoulder, pancreatic calculi have been found in the stools. There may be symptoms of a concomitant pancreatitis, and a positive pancreatic reaction has often been obtained. Treatment.—If diagnosed by the X-rays, the location of the calculi will he iiidicated. Those in the main duct may be removed through the duodenuui by enlarging the papilla, otherwise the pancreas may be directly incised. PANCREATIC FISTULA This is usually a sequel to some operation on the pancreas, either for injury, inflammation, or the treatment of a cyst. The constant escape of secretion leads to digestion of the surround- ing skin, which soon becomes extensively excoriated. Such a fistula may be very chronic, and may even resist treatment for years. Beyond the local inconvenience and the loss of secretion, the condition may be a source of septic absorption and of subsequent lardaceous disease. The amount of discharge varies with the character of the food taken, in response to the physiological excitation of the organ. Treatment.—It is first necessary to see that there is no cause likely to keep the fistula active, such as a mass of sloughing pancreas. Drainage must not be hampered by too small an opening in the parietes; it must be allowed to be free, and the surrounding skin protected by