1064 THE OVARY OTHER NEW GROWTHS Myomas are very rare in tlie tube. Adeno-myomas liave been described. Tliey consist of an admixture of muscle fibres with epi- thelial tubules derived from the lining of the tube. They are of inflammatory origin. Sarcoma and hydatid cysts in tliis situation are also known. THE OVARY ABSENCE OF THE OVARY—ACCESSORY OVARY One or both ovaries may be absent or infantile. Occasionally an accessory ovary outside the normal one may be present. PROLAPSE The ovary may be dragged down by a retroverted or prolapsed uterus. Not infrequently prolapse occurs with the uterus in normal position, the ligaments being relaxed from parturition or primary tissue debility. Clinical features.-—The principal symptom is dyspareunia owing to the tenderness of the prolapsed organ, though this varies enormously in different individuals. Probably some cases of chronic " ovarian " pain are due to this displacement. Many ovaries clinically tender show at the operation filamentous adhesions previously unsuspected. Diagnosis.—The normal ovary is not easily felt, because there is no solid background against which to feel it. Light palpation is necessary; much force pushes the organ in front of the finger, and defeats its end. Rectal examination is useful in these cases. Treatment—If the condition gives no trouble it should, of course, be let alone. When neurasthenia has been excluded, and the genuineness and ovarian origin of the symptoms have been established, it is proper to attempt relief. In uncomplicated ovarian prolapse the ovarico-uterine ligament should be shortened after the method first described by me in 1907. In the more common cases associated with retroversion, rectification of the uterine displacement and the use of a pessary may succeed. This failing, ventro - suspension, combined with shortening of the ovarian ligaments, is a proper course; or, better still, intraperitoneal ligamentopexy (p. 1006), which very effectively pulls up the ovary. INFLAMMATION (OOPHORITIS) Primary ovarian inflammation is rare, though it frequently arises secondarily to disease of the tube, as previously described. Occasionally a solitary abscess occurs, probably as a result of infection of a recently dehisced follicle by the B. coli communis. These cases are very ful-