492 THE INTESTINES may change its position from time to time, and sometimes it reaches the rectum and is protruded from the anus, in which case it may be mistaken for a prolapse or a polypus. The condition is treated on the same lines as acute intussusception. Acute Intussusception in the Adult In the adult, intussusception is a rare cause of acute obstruction, not more than 12 per cent, of all intussusceptions occurring in patients over 10 years of age. Generally speaking, it may be said that the etiology is the same as in children, but more frequently some definite morbid condition of the bowel wall is present, such as an ulcerated polypus, a malig- nant tumour, or a diseased condition of the mucous membrane, which determines the invagination. There is, therefore, usually a long history of gastro-intestinal disturbance, wliich culminates in acute obstruction. The intussuscep- tion may be of the entero-colic or of the enteric variety. The clinical features are less characteristic than in the child, and the differential diagnosis from other causes of obstruction more diffi- cult. On the whole, the symptoms are less acute than in children. Chronic Primary Intussusception in the Adult Apart from cases in which chronic intussusception is due to tumour, ulceration, or tuberculosis of the bowel wall, a number of cases have been recorded in which the invagination was the primary condition leading to gradual obstruction of the bowel. Goodall of Boston has made a study of the literature of this subject, based upon 122 recorded cases. Morbid anatomy.—The intussusception is usually of the entero-colic variety, the enteric and colic forms being comparatively rare. As a rule, there are numerous adhesions between the different layers, which render reduction impossible, but in some cases, in spite of the fact that the condition has lasted for weeks or even months, there have been remarkably few adhesions. The lumen of the gut may be narrowed to the size of the little finger or even to that of a goose-quill, and sometimes a false opening forms which admits of the intestinal contents passing on. Ulceration of the mucous membrane of the coils implicated is common, and the sheath frequently becomes perforated at several points, so that portions of the invaginated bowel project through it (Plate 94). Clinical features.—The condition is usually met with in persons between 20 and 40 years of age, and appears to be twice as common in men as in women.