39° THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM When possible, partial gastrectomy should be carried out (p. 404). In a few cases it may be justifiable to excise at the same time a portion of the liver where the pylorus has become adherent to it, or where the growth has directly attacked it, or a portion of the transverse colon where this is involved. Total gastrectomy is rarely necessary except in cases of diffuse growth—" leather-bottle " stomach. With regard to the immediate mortality : Deaver and Ashurst collected 747 cases of partial gastrectomy with an immediate mortality of a little over 25 per cent. This may be taken as about the average immediate mortality at the present time, although individual surgeons have obtained better results—thus, the Mayos' 226 cases with 12'4 per cent, deaths ; Maydl, 16 per cent. ; Mayo Robson, 13 per cent. Of my 21 cases of partial gastrectomy 3 died as the result of operation ; 1, in whom I excised a wedge-shaped portion of the liver, two months later with a biliary fistula ; another died of shock within twenty-four hours. In the other case the wound was sutm'ed hurriedly with tlu:ough-and-through stitches on account of the patient's condition, but these gave way on the fourth day, and he died of broncho-pneumonia five days after the second anfesthetic. Patients are alive without recurrence twenty-seven months, twenty-two months, twenty months, twelve months, eleven months, six months, and four months after operation. Of those in whom recurrence took place, the earliest was at tlnee months, the latest at thirty months. In 127 cases analysed by Hey Groves in which the cause of death was given, peritonitis accounted for 78, shock 23, hmg complications 20. With improved methods of operating, the death-rate should cer- tainly be no more than 15 per cent. As to the after-results, cases have been recorded well fourteen years (Braun), thirteen years, twelve years (Lemoin), eleven and a half years (Maydl), eight years (Goldschwend), five years and ten months (Poncet) after operation. The average duration of life after partial gastrectomy in cases in which recurrence takes place is about eighteen months. The quality of the life is good, and death occurs less painfully. Recurrence is rare after two years ; if life is prolonged beyond four years, there is a good prospect of cure. From the collected statistics of Paterson, 15 per cent, of the number operated upon lived five years or more. In 140 resections of stomach for carcinoma recorded by Kocher (1910), 20 per cent, remained well for over four years. At the present time it is safe to say that the general operative mortality is about 25 per cent.; of the 75 per cent, who recover, 60 per cent, will succumb to the disease within three years, after a period of comparative comfort, and 15 wUl survive over five years and may possibly be cured. These figures will show great improvement in the future.