THE TONGUE 2 20 the surgeon ; in this position the blood tends to run out of the angle of the mouth. Special gags which do not interfere with this position will be required. Gags.—The surgeon will with advantage take some care in the selection of his gags for these cases. Nothing is more annoj^ng, even dangerous occasionally, than the slipping of the gag or the inabiUty to expose the parts thoroughly. Butlin recommends Coleman's gag ; Jacobson, Hewitt's modification of Mason's gag. Lane's or Wingrave's is a useful instrument when the head is turned on the side, as there are no handles to get in the way. A pair of large lip and cheek retractors should be at hand. When only half the tongue is to be removed, the gag is placed on the side opposite to that affected, but a second gag is often required. Sponges.—Although marine sponges have been abandoned for modern surgical work in the abdomen, they have a distinct field of usefulness in operations on the mouth and throat, and are strongly recommended. It will be found, however, that the coarse Turkey sponge is much more serviceable than the finer sponges usually employed, as it absorbs blood better and does not get so slimy. One dozen small swabs, to be used on holders, and three or four larger ones, each firmly secured by a stout silk thread, should be in readiness. These are wrung out of weak carbolic (1-100), and are placed in charge of a nurse, who rinses and returns them clean to the surgeon as he requires them. The anaesthetic.—When ansesthesia has been induced, the administration may be continued either through the laryngotomy tube or the nose, as the case may be. Chloroform is the best ansesthetic. The laryngeal reflex should not be lost. Intubation aniBsthesia is largely employed in America. Operation.—The mouth being widely opened, two stout threads are passed through the tip of the tongue, one on each side of the middle line. A further thread may with advantage be passed through the base of the organ close to the epiglottis, of course wide of the disease. This step is especially advantageous when the whole tongue is to be removed, and is usually required at the completion of the operation, to prevent the stump falling back and occluding the larynx; as a preliminary measure it will facilitate the protrusion of the tongue and also the dragging of the bleeding- point into view in the event of htemorrhage. The tongue is now pulled well forwards by means of the ligatures, and the surgeon cuts through the tongue along the middle line of the dorsum from base to tip by means of a laiife (Fig. 339). This incision is deepened, by cutting, blunt dissection, or tearing, to the hyoid bone. The mucous membrane is then cut through with scissors,