CHRONIC DILATATION 3^7 jejunostomy, and, if not relieved by lavage and position, is un- likely to be cured by this operation. I am of opinion tliat operation is not indicated. In the early cases, life will be saved by lavage ; in those that are overlooked, no surgical treatment will be of any avail. CHRONIC DILATATION OF THE STOMACH These cases fall into two groups :— 1. Those in which the dilatation is the result of mechanical obstruction in the region of the pylorus—obstructive. 2. Those in which the enlargement of the stomach is the result of weakness of its walls—atonic dilatation. The former variety possesses most interest; it is doubtful if the second form should ever be treated surgically. It must always be remembered that gastric dilatation is not a disease, but a symptom. 1. Obstructive Dilatation These cases, again, fall into two groups, each of which is further subdivided into those due to malignant growth and those the result of simple causes. The groups are— (1) Those in which the cause is in the wall of the stomach or duodenum. (2) Those in which it is external to them. i. (a) Malignant disease of the stomach or duodenum. {b) Ulcers of the stomach or duodenum and their sequelae. Simple tumours; infantile hypertrophic stenosis; fibrous stricture ; gastroptosis. ii. («) Malignant disease of the pancreas, gall-bladder, and biliary passages. (b) Non-malignant disease of gall-bladder and bile-ducts. Perigastritis ; mobile Iddney ; aneurysm. Carcinoma of the stomach frequently arises in the pyloric region, and is one of the common causes of obstructive dilatation of the stomach (p. 380). The onset of symptoms of interference with gastric motility in a previously healthy adult should always direct attention to this possibility. Gastric dilatation may be due to the presence of a chronic ulcer of the pyloric region of the stomach, to the contraction of scar tissue formed as the result of its healing, to perigastric adhesions, or to ulcer of the first part of the duodenum. The last-named is the mo.st common simple cause. The obstruction is sometimes due to spasm of the pylorus brought about by the irritation of the ulcer, but in such cases the dilatation is rarely great, and seldom in itself calls for