I004 THE UTERUS worm-gut sutures or in layers of catgut uniting (1) the edges of the levator ani, (2) the superficial fascial planes, and (3) the skin. If the rupture extends through the anus the recto-vaginal septum must be split before the vaginal flap is turned up. The gap in the wall of the bowel is closed separately by buried catgut sutures. RETROVERSION OF THE UTERUS The uterine axis varies greatly in direction within normal limits, being affected by the state of the intestines and the bladder, and the position of the patient. Various arbitrary degrees of retroversion have been described, which serve no useful purpose, and should be dis- carded in place of this simple rule : if, with the patient in the standing posture, the axis of the uterus is directed behind the vertical, the uterus is retroverted. Doubtful cases of displacement must always be examined with the patient erect, for many a uterus that is retroverted in dorsal decubitus takes up the normal anteverted position when the patient stands. Such patients need no treatment for the retroversion. Retroflexion is always secondary to retroversion ; the flaccid uterus bends just above the attachment of the utero-sacral and lateral cervico- pelvic ligaments. Etiology.—Retroversion is caused by yielding of the upper part of the broad ligaments, and this may arise in several ways :— 1. Gravity.—An abnormally heavy uterus may retrovert of its own weight, as in some cases of myoma ; on the other hand, a normal organ may stretch ligaments already weak from parturition, maldevelop- ment, or general debility. The coexistence of a heavy uterus and relaxed ligaments such as occurs in puerperal subinvolution is the commonest cause of retroversion. 2. Pressure.—Large tumours lying in front of the uterus may push the organ into retroversion.- This often occurs with ovarian cysts and myomas. 3. Tractidn.—The contraction of adhesions may pull the uterus into retroversion. This is often seen in chronic salpingitis, and particularly after bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy for inflammatory conditions, where the operation has interfered with the normal supporting structures; 4. Trauma.—Probably sudden falls or strains may cause retrover- sion, though this is impossible of proof. It is the most reasonable explanation of the commonly-found cases in virgins, and in many instances the history strongly supports such a view. Effect of retroversion on the uterus.—It is doubtful if retroversion per se has any effect on a healthy uterus, for in virgins this displacement commonly occurs without any signs of uterine disease. Most cases of retroversion are, however, puerperal in origin, and in