ANATOMY OF THE DUODENUM The capacity of the stomach varies according to the amount and kind of food habitually taken. Its average capacity, according to Sidney Martin, is 35 to 40 fluid oz. The fimction of the stomach is to prepare food for absorption, and so prevent injury to the intestine. It renders meals possible, to a certain extent it sterilizes the food, corrects it to the body temperature, and reduces it to a fluid mixed with gastric juice. The duodenum is that portion of the small intestine between the pylorus and the duodeno- jejunal junction. For the purposes of descrip- tive anatomy it has been divided into three or four parts. The first or superior portion ex- tends to the neck of the gall-bladder, the second or descending ends opposite the third or fourth lumbar vertebra, and turns sharply to the left as the third portion, which runs across the spine and then ascends to the left side of the first or second lumbar vertebra. The left ascending portion is sometimes called the fourth part. The more important division surgically is into the part above (supra-ampullary) and that be- low (infra-ampullary) the entrance of the com- mon bile-duet. The supra-ampullary portion is affected by the diseases that attack the stomach, whilst diseases of the infra-ampullary are rare and resemble those of the remainder of the small intestine. At the level of the junction of the first and second lumbar vertebrse, the gut turns directly forward at the duodeno-jejunal flexure to become the jejunum. The anatomy of this region is of great importance in connexion with the operation of gastro-jejunostomy (p. 406). The ducdeno-jejunal junction is held in position by a band of fibres con- taining unstriped muscle attached to the left crus of the diaphragm ; this is enclosed in a peritoneal fold which is usually small, but occa- sionally, as pointed out by Mayo, may extend several inches along the jejunum. Murphy has shown that in the process of development a loop of jejunum may be left posterior to the peritoneum. This may extend as low as the brim of the pelvis, and then, passing back- wards and upwards, may enter the peritoneal cavity through its posterior wall, just below the level at which the duodenum crosses the aorta. The whole of the small intestine has been found in a secondary sac bounded by omentum and mesocolon (Malcolm). When the jejunum is turned over to the right, folds of peritoneum Fig. .3(52.—Stomach of a full-term fcEtus, showing subdivision into cardiac and pyloric portions. [After Ciiiinntghain.) This dififerentiation, ac- cording to Keith, is seen aseariyas the third month, when the fundus buds out from the dorsal border of the stomach.