THE BREAST 10 CARCINOMA OF THE NIPPLE Carcinoma of the nipple is rare. It may be of the squamous- celled or spheroidal-celled type. In the latter case it probably originates in the sebaceous glands of the areola. Early ulceration takes place, and the disease then pursues a course similar to that of carcinoma of the mamma itself. SEROUS DISCHARGE FROM THE NIPPLE Serous discharge from the nipple may be due to duct papilloma or duct carcinoma. This is the commonest cause. It may occur in chronic mastitis, apart from duct papilloma—a fact easy to under- stand if it be remembered how frequently cysts are formed in chronic mastitis if duct obstruction prevents the exit of the serous secretion (see Fig. 254). In any given case, however, it is practically impossible to exclude the presence of a small and impalpable duct papilloma, which may ultimately become carcinomatous. A serous discharge may occasionally persist for years, unaccompanied by any induration of the breast, but there is often a very slight sector-shaped indura- tion of one or more of the lobes, only appreciable on very careful examination. Serous discharge is nearly always unilateral. Treatment.—Mintz, in one of his cases, obtained a cure of three years' duration by giving large doses of potassium iodide. I have tried X-rays without success. In my opinion, persistent serous discharge is best treated by complete removal of the breast. PAGET'S DISEASE OF THE NIPPLE This affection is a unilateral chronic intractable eczema of the nipple, first described by Paget as preceding cancer of the mammary gland. The disease usually occurs in middle-aged or elderly women, very rarely in men. It begins with an eruption on the nipple and areola, which generally present a florid, intensely red, finely granulated surface like that of acute eczema or acute balanitis. The surface exudes a copious clear, yellowish discharge, and is the seat of tingling, itching, and burning sensations. In other cases the eruption resembles chronic eczema, with minute vesications, succeeded by moist, yellowish scabs or scales, and accompanied by viscid exudation. Sometimes it is dry, like psoriasis, with a few whitish scabs slowly desquamating. Within a period not usually exceeding two years, but possibly pro- longed to ten years, a carcinomatous lump appears in the breast, often at a point remote from the nipple, and usually in discontinuity with the eczematous skin. (Fig. 253 and Plate 82) It should be stated here that eczema of the nipple, according to R. Williams, may persist as long as twenty years without the