HEMORRHOIDS 673 the rectum exerting pressure in a direction reverse to that of the blood- flow in the ascending veins; (2) the contraction of the muscular walls of the bowel tending to constrict the apertures through which the veins pass ; (3) the raising of the blood pressure in both the portal and caval systems during forced expiratory efforts, and (4) the loss of support to the veins due to relaxation of the spliincters and levatores ani. In habitual constipation, faeces are more or less constantly retained in the rectum, and, becoming unduly solid from absorption of water, cause constant pressure on the ascending veins. The contraction of the rectal wall is increased in force, and expulsive expiratory efforts are prolonged. Ultimately, the repeated and severe venous distension so induced terminates in permanent varicosity. Other forms of mechanical venous obstruction, acting alone or in combination with constipation, are sometimes responsible for piles. The condition may be associated with local pressure by the gravid uterus or pelvic tumours, with the general back pressure of cardiac and pulmonary diseases, and with the portal obstruction of hepatic cirrhosis, or of hepatic congestion in those who habitually eat and drink to excess. In some cases local irritation seems to produce or to aggravate haemorrhoids; thus, etiological association has been claimed with worms in children, and with fissures, ulcerations, and fistulae, and even with diarrhoea ; while the mechanical results of rectal accumu- lations of ffeces may be aided by their irritant effects. Classification.—Anatomically, piles are divided into external and internal. In the former the tumour is covered with skin, and in the latter with mucous membrane. This is also a useful clinical classi- fication, since the symptoms, complications, and treatment differ. External Piles Several different conditions are included, some only of which satisfy the definition. 1. Dilatation of the Anal Veins The veins surrounding the anal margin are dilated, and during tstraining form a distinct swelling ; when straining ceases the veins subside, leaving the sldn loose. The condition is always associated with constipation, and is frequently accompanied by internal piles. The symptoms are merely a feeling of fullness and uneasiness after defa'cation. Spasmodic contraction of the sphincter may occur, and in time the muscle may become hypertrophied. Treatment should be directed to inducing regular action of the bowels. In some cases where the sphincter is markedly hyper- trophied its division may give relief. 2r