IMPOTENCE 981 clinical course as these neoplasms elsewhere, and demands the same treatment. The inguinal glands should always be removed. INNOCENT GROWTHS All varieties of innocent new growths are uncommon in the scrotum, and they differ in no respect from similar growths in other parts of the body. The least uncommon are angioma, fibroma, Hpoma, and fibro-cellular tumours. Lipoma may attain a huge size, the growth in one reported case weighing 11 lb. Sebaceous Cysts Sebaceous cysts of any size are not common in the scrotum. They have the usual features of sebaceous cysts elsewhere, and if necessary should be removed. LYMPH SCROTUM—ELEPHANTIASIS OF THE SCROTUM Although thickening of the skin and subcutaneous tissues of the scrotum from lymphatic obstructioir may occur from several causes, such as sypliilitic ulceration in the groin, sloughing of the inguinal glands, or their complete removal for malignant disease, lymph scrotum and elephantiasis are essen- tially a manifestation of filariasis, a tropical disease due to invasion of the body by the nematode Filaria Bancrofti. Lymph scrotum is the forerunner of elephantiasis, and it is hardly necessary to separate the two conditions. The subject has been sufficiently considered elsewhere (Vol. L, p. 911). IMPOTENCE Impotence is a condition in which the ability to have normal sexual intercourse is lost, or very much lessened. This condition must be carefully distinguished from sterility, in which there is a defect in the semen rendering it incapable of fertilizing the ovum. A patient who is impotent is usually sterile, but not necessarily so, for the semen may be ejaculated and be artificially conveyed to the vagina. For example, in cases in which the semen is ejaculated with only partial erection of the penis the patient may be impotent, but should the semen gain entrance to the vagina conception may follow. Impotence may be considered under the following heads :— 1. Impotence due to physical defects in the genital organs. 2. Impotence due to abnormal psychical conditions. 3. Nervous impotence. 4. Paralytic impotence. 1. Physical defects.—Under this heading are grouped cases of impotence due to congenital abnormalities such as hypospadias, epispadias, rudimentary penis, to mutilation, elephantiasis of the penis, large hernias and hydroceles, and to induration of the penis and loss of power of erection following fracture of the penis, gonorrhoea! and gouty inflammation of the cavernous tissue, periurethral abscesses, etc. Hypospadias and epispadias only cause impotence if present in an advanced degree, many patients with these defects having the power