875 VESICAL CALCULUS phosphates, microscopic quantities of blood, an excess of leucocytes, and usually some epithelial cells. In children, screaming on micturi- tion and retention of urine are not infrequent, or there may be active incontinence of urine. In small boys "' milking" of the penis to ease the pain leads to an enlarged, turgid, semi-erect condition of the organ which is very characteristic. When cystitis complicates stone the frequency of micturition becomes nocturnal as well as diurnal, the pain is increased, and pus and mucus appear in the urine, which frequently becomes alkaline and stinking. In old-standing cases symptoms of ascending pyelonephritis appear, and the patient shows signs of " urinary septicaemia." Diagnosis.—The severity of the pain and its sharp character, the diurnal frequency, and the pronounced effect of movement and jarring on all the symptoms, are characteristic of calculus. The previous passage of a stone or past operations for stones are important points. Fixed stones do not produce the characteristic symptoms. Eectal and vaginal examination usually fails to detect the stone. When the calculus is large it may be detected bimanually, especially in children. The bladder is examined with a sound after introducing a few ounces of fluid, and the impact of the metal instrument on the stone gives a characteristic sensation and sound. In children the stone lies at the neck of the bladder, in adults behind the trigone, and in old men frequently behind an enlarged prostate. The ridges of a trabeculated bladder, phosphatic deposit, and new growths may give rise to difficulties in diagnosis with the sound, and care should be taken that the handle does not come in contact with a ring or button. A small stone may be detected by using a lithotrity evacuator and bulb. Cystoscopy is the most certain method of detecting a calculus, and is especially useful in fixed calculi. Radiography shows a shadow in the vesical area. Treatment.—A small calculus may sometimes be removed by means of the cannula and aspirator used in litholapaxy. The operations performed for stone in the bladder are of two classes, viz. : (1) Crushing (litholapaxy or lithotrity), (2) cutting (lithotomy). Litholapaxy or lithotrity—The modern operation of lithola- paxy (Bigelow, 1878) consists in crushing a stone and removing the fragments at one sitting. Four or five ounces of boric solution are introduced into the bladder ; the lithotrite is passed, the handles are raised, the blades separated. The stone rolls in between the blades and is caught. The blades are now locked and the male blade screwed home, and this manoeuvre is repeated until all the fragments are crushed, when the lithotrite is removed. A large cannula is now passed,