394 THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM Fenwick estimated that sarcomas constitute from 3 to 8 per cent, of all tumours of the stomach. The growth may be composed of round or spindle cells, and the intercellular substance may be very scanty, or it may be definitely fibrous. Myomatous, myxomatous, or angiomatous tissue may be found in any given case. The round-celled sarcoma is the most common type (60 per cent.), spindle-celled the next (36 per cent.). Four types can be recognized: (1) Eound-celled sarcoma. (2) Spindle-celled sarcoma. (3) Lympho-sarcoma. (4) Secondary to sar- coma of retroperitoneal glands. 1. Round-celled sarcoma commences in the submucous tissue, and may be diffuse or may form a circumscribed tu- mour projecting into the lumen of the stomach. It occurs most com- monly in the pyloric region and along the greater curvature, but rarely gives rise to py- loric obstruction. The whole organ may be affected. Metastases are commonly present. Fig. 388.—Lympho-sarcoma (Kundrath's type). 2. Sfindle-celled sar- (Sa/aman, Proc. oj Path. Soc.) comas, fi.br0 - sarcomas, myo-sarcomas or endo- theliomas usually form circumscribed tumours springing from the greater curvature, and presenting a polypoid mass. They are all liable to myxomatous change and cyst-formation. They tend to project towards the serous coat, and may fill the greater part of the abdominal cavity. 3. Lymphosarcomas are composed of lymphoid cells in a fibrillar meshwork (Kundrath, see Fig. 388). Originating in a lymph follicle of mucous membrane, or a lymphatic gland in the pharynx or any part of the intestinal tract, they may spread along the wall of these tubes and bring about dilatation of the lumen. In some cases polypoid submucous growths are present. In the stomach they originate in the submucous tissue, and may spread throughout the intestinal tract, thus differing from round- celled sarcoma, which is confined to the stomach. The growth, although commencing in the submucous tissue, infil- trates all the coats of the stomach and thus causes marked increase