THE (ESOPHAGUS 266 or pleura gave rise to signs of spreading suppuration in the neck or thorax. Subcutaneous emphysema was noted in some of the cases re- ported. Diagnosis has always been most difficult; it must be well- nigh impossible, indeed, in the absence of previous history pointing to disease of the oesophagus. Surgical treatment by exposing the oesophagus through the posterior mediastinum appears to be the only possible course to adopt. The diagnostic difficulty and the rapidly fatal termination of these cases account for the absence of surgical intervention up to the present time. INJURIES The oesophagus, on account of its protected position, is not fre- quently injured. Its wall may, however, be penetrated from without or from within, in either the cervical or the thoracic portion of its course. 1. Injuries from Without (a) Wounds of the cervical portion are more common, and include incised and stab wounds and injuries by a bullet. The oesophagus is not usually injured in self-inflicted wounds of the neck. These are generally placed obliquely at the upper part of the neck, and open the pharynx above the thyroid cartilage. The rare cases of incised wounds of the oesophagus are generally com- plicated by extensive injury to the trachea. Stab wounds of the neck may penetrate the oesophagus with but little injury to the surrounding parts. Bullet wounds of the oesophagus in the neck generally inflict severe injury on the surrounding structures. The oesophagus has been wounded in rough attempts to perform tracheotomy, and in the performance of surgical operations such as thyroidectomy (Berry).' (6) Wounds of the thoracic portion are uncommon. They are generally caused by stab or gunshot wounds. Penetration of the oesophagus here generally implies injury to the thoracic viscera, and is most dangerous owing to the certain risk of infection of the sur- rounding tissues, mediastina, pleura, or pericardium. 2. Injuries from Within These include wounds of the wall inflicted by the passage of foreign bodies, bougies or other instruments. If a pathological condition of the wall is present or ulceration has occurred, penetration may be 1 "Diseases of the Thyroid Gland," p. 304.