INTERNAL HEMORRHOIDS: TREATMENT 677 sessile, when extruded is accompanied by an eversion of the skin of the anal canal, giving rise to the erroneous belief that external piles are also present. When the anal canal reverts to the normal, external piles, if present, will be seen. Internal piles project at first only during defsecation, retreating when the act ceases, but frequent reciirrence of the prolapse relaxee the sphincteric tone, and protrusion may occur during any expiratory effort, sudden exertion, or even walking. The mucous membrane of a pile frequently extruded may become inflamed and secrete a mucoid discharge which may cause pruritus ani (p. 727). Superficial ulceration or even suppuration may occur. On the other hand, a pile prolapsed may become so tightly gripped by the sphincter muscles that it is only with difficulty reduced. If allowed to remain prolapsed, it will rapidly swell from interference with its vascular circulation, acute infection is liable to occur, and this may be followed by ulceration, or gangrene of the whole or part of the pile. If gangrene occur the extruded mass may separate and a cure result, but such a sequel should only be permitted in exceptional cases. The diagnosis of internal piles should be easy if a proper ex- amination be made by means of a speculum and reflected light. If pain be excessive, probably some complication is present, e.g. a fissure or suppuration. Careful examination easily demonstrates that the pro- truded mass consists of the mucosa of the anal canal, and that it is not derived from a point higher in the bowel as is a polyp or an intus- susception ; moreover the pedicle of a polyp is readily felt on digital examination. Intussusception in the rectum probably does not occur in the absence of a tumour. Treatment.—Palliative measures are indicated at first in many cases. They may suffice Avliere bleeding is trivial, protru- sion slight or absent, and the prime cause of the piles, e.g. gestation or a pelvic tumour, has been removed. In old age associated with arterial degeneration, bleeding from internal piles may be regarded as favour- able, tending to deplete the circulation. In more than one such case, where piles have been removed, cerebral haemorrhage has followed. In cases of chronic cardiac or pulmonary disease, or portal obstruction, operative treatment is contra-indicated. In portal obstruction, haemor- rhage relieving the portal circulation tends to prevent ascites and hasmatemesis. The first care must be to keep the bowels regular by the systematic and judicious administration of aperients. There is no one aperient which can be vaunted ; several may have to be tried before the one which suits the patient is found ; saline purgatives are generally inadvisable. Undue hardness of the motion must be prevented by the injection into the bowel of warm olive oil. The diet must be regulated, and especially in those who habitually eat and drink excessively.