THE BLADDER ?76 and the aspirator bulb applied. By alternate compression and relaxa- tion the fragments are swept into the bulb and fall by their weight into the glass bulb. When all the fragments have been removed the bladder is washed with weak nitrate-of-silver solution and a catheter tied in the urethra for a few days. Litholapaxy has been performed upon young children. The youngest child on whom it has been done, a boy of fifteen months, was under the author's care. Difficulties and contra-indications.—Litholapaxy is contra-indicated by (1) severe and persistent cystitis, (2) considerable enlargement of the prostate, (3) advanced sacculation, (4) fixed calculi, (5) spas- modic contraction of the bladder, (6) new growths of the bladder complicating stone, (7) very large and hard stones. Urethral stricture or a narrow meatus should be treated before- lithol'apaxy is performed. Perineal litholapaxy, through a median external urethrotomy wound, has been performed, but it is inferior to litholapaxy and to suprapubic lithotomy. Dangers.—Ascending pyelonephritis and perforation of the bladder wall are rare. A rise of temperature may occur when cystitis is pre- sent, and is avoided by careful preparation of the bladder and by tying in a catheter and washing the bladder after the operation. Suprapubic lithotomy.—The bladder is distended with fluid and opened suprapubically, and the stone removed by lithotomy forceps or a scoop. If the prostate is enlarged, prostatectomy is now performed. Median perinea! lithotomy.—The patient is placed in the lithotomy position, and the membranous urethra opened on a staff' by a median perineal incision. The forefinger is introduced along a gorget into the bladder, and a pair of lithotomy forceps or a scoop passed alongside this and the stone removed. A rubber perineal drainage-tube is tied in the- bladder for some days. Lateral lithotomy is now abandoned in favour of one of the methods here described. Vaginal lithotomy consists in opening the bladder base behind the trigone on an instrument introduced through the urethra, and removing the stone with lithotomy forceps. Vesico-vaginal fistula is a frequent sequel. Results of operation.—The results in 1,670 cases of stone in the bladder operated on at St. Peter's Hospital in the years 1864-1910 showed a mortality in the first decade of 15-25 per cent., and of 3'36 per cent, in the last decade. The death-rate of litholapaxy varies from 2 per cent. (Legueu) to 3"6 per cent. (Zuckerkandl).