OPERATIONS FOR VENTRAL HERNIA 631 hernias owing to the nature of the cicatrix and adhesions ; this is especially so where there has been extensive suppuration, or where abdominal drainage has been employed. The majority are situated between the umbilicus and the pubes (Fig. 464), and consequently there is a deficiency of the posterior sheath of the rectus in the lower half of this area. The filigree must there- fore lie on the posterior sheath in its upper, and on the peritoneum in its lower half, and should come well down below the crest of the pubes. Appendicular and other lateral hernias.—Whenever drainage of an appendicular ab- scess, or reposition after cseco- stomy or colostomy, has been performed, a ventral hernia is to be expected ; and, owing to the disposition of the muscular layers here, recurrence is almost certain to follow any attempt to cure such a hernia by simple approxi- mation of such layers. The situation is not one which lends itself to the application of belts or trusses, and the discomfort of this variety of hernia is greater in proportion than that of any other form of ventral hernia, since the sac always con- tains the cfecum and ileo-csecal valve or the sigmoid, wliich struc- tures are usually adherent to its walls. For this reason also much of the peritoneum may be sacrificed in detaching these adhesions. In a case of mine ^ it was impossible to close the gap in the peritoneum, an area of 3 by 1| in. remaining to be closed. The omentum being too short to suture into the gap, the csecum and ileum were united together and sewn to the edges of the peritoneal gap in order that a filigxee measuring 9 by 5 in. might be implanted. The case was successful, and the patient has since married and has borne a child. The fiUgree in such cases as these is introduced as follows :—• The skin cicatrix having been excised by an elliptical incision running obliquely from the loin to the pubes, the abdomen is opened at the upper end and the adhesions determined as above detailed. The peritoneum is separated as widely as possible from the abdominal muscles external to the incision, and the rectus sheath is opened extensively along its outer edge. The muscle is then freed from the 1 Lancet, Nov. 23, 1907. Fig. 464.—^Ventral hernia following laparotomy, cured by implanta- tion of 9-in. filigree. (Author s case.)