THE TONGUE 214 Operative Methods In a discussion concerning the various operative procedures for cancer of the tongue the following points have to be especially con- sidered :— 1. A preliminary laryngotomy or tracheotomy. 2. The preliminary ligation of the blood-vessels. 3. The relative order in which the growth and the glands should be attacked. 4. The amount of lingual tissue to be removed. 1. Should a preliminary laryngotomy or trache- otomy be done?—The objects which have induced operators to perform this initial step have been : first, to prevent blood trickhng down into the lungs during the performance of the operation; secondly, to prevent sufiocation from the falling-back of the stump of the tongue subsequently ; thirdly, to prevent septic pneumonia— the pharynx being plugged for some days, the patient is allowed to breathe only through the artificial opening. The answer to the question must, to a large extent, depend upon the nature of the operation to be attempted. If the more formidable lateral operation of Kocher is selected, a preliminary opening of the trachea may be an advantage, as a large wound is left in the mouth and neck from which discharges may infect the lungs unless the wounded area is kept carefully plugged. There are, however, other less objectionable measures at our disposal, and there is at present a strong opinion against the performance of tracheotomy. In the milder procedure of Whitehead, when only one half of the organ is removed by the intrabuccal method, even a preliminary laryngotomy is not always required. Nor is it necessary in the cases where the median method of Syme is chosen, since here the patient's head is propped up, the jaw is divided in the middle line, and all the blood escapes externally. Again, when the vessels are secured during the dissection of the glands, the final stage of the removal of the tongue is accomplished without any bleeding at all, and in these circumstances larjTigotomy is not required. Where the more extensive operations are attempted, especially those designed to remove growths situated posteriorly, I am strongly of the opinion that a laryngotomy should be performed, the entrance to the larynx being firmly plugged with a soft marine sponge. There is no doubt that this prehminary step enables the operator to act with greater deUberation and confidence. Laryngotomy should be preferred to tracheotomj' on account of its greater simplicity and its freedom from complications; but if the