THE KIDNEY 788 The urine is usually pale and of low specific gravity. Suppurative renal disease combined with cystitis produces a solid layer of pus at the bottom of the glass, and above this a layer of billowy, fluffy muco-pus. In chronic cystitis the urine has a pungent ammoniacal odour. As a rule, purulent urine from the kidney has no characteristic odour, but a puru- lent collection in a dilated kidney may be offensive, and a pyelitis with exces- sive bacterial growth may possess a very strong disagreeable and penetrating smell. Bacillus coli, the gonococcus, and Bacillus typhosus produce acute cystitis, in which the purulent urine remains acid. The tuliercle bacillus produces a subacute or chronic cystitis with an acid urine. The staphylo- coccus, streptococcus, and Bacillus proteus cause ammoniacal decomposi- tion of the urine. The urine from a case of suppurative pyelitis is usually acid, but ammoniacal decomposition may take place. Pus appearing at the beginning of micturition has a urethral origin. When the urine is clear at the beginning of micturition and purulent at the finish, the pus comes from the prostate or bladder. Intermittent pyuria is found in pyoneplirosis, and also when an abscess or an infected vesical diverticulum repeatedly discharges into the urethra or bladder. Albumin proportional to the quantity of pus present is found in the urine of all uncomplicated cases of pyuria. If it be present in excessive quantities, renal complications may be suspected. Epithelial elements may be present in the urine, but have less significance in regard to localization here than in haematuria. Tube casts are only found in the slighter forms of pyelonephritis. Localizing symptoms may be present which point to the source of the pyuria. The cystoscope will frequently localize the otherwise obscure origin of pyuria. The examination of the ureteric orifices should never be neglected. Disease of the bladder exclusively surrounding one ureteric orifice, changes at the orifice itself, and the observation of murky or purulent urine coming from one ureter will show that there is disease of the kidney, whether renal symptoms be present or not. When the quantity of pus in the urine is small and the bladder inflamed it may be very difficult to distinguish the pyuria by examining the ureteric efflux, and ureteral catheterization will then become necessary. When the pus is present in quantity with little urine, pipes of semi-solid jjus are observed issuing from the ureteric orifice. In some cases of long-standing pyuria, radiography shows the presence of stones in one or both kidneys, when no symptoms of their presence have been observed. PNBUMATURIA In tliis condition gas is discharged with the urine at the end of micturi- tion. Pneumaturia may result from the introduction of air into the bladder during instrumentation, from the escape of intestinal gas through a vesico- intestinal fistula, or rarely from spontaneous development of gas in the urinary tract. This may be due to liberation of COo by fermentation of sugary urine tlirough the action of Bacillus coli, or occasionally Proteus vulgaris ; in non-glycosuric cases the gas has been said to be derived from the blood or from gaseous decomposition of the urine by gas-producing bacteria such as the colon bacillus. Treatment.—When no fistula exists, treatment consists in removing the cause of the fermentation by washing the bladder and administering urinary antiseptics. Glycosuria should be treated. The treatment of fistula of the bladder will be discussed later (p. 878).