VESICAL WOUNDS 859 Results.—Cases operated on in tlie first twelve hours have a mortality of 38 per cent., while those operated on after this time have a mortality as high as 71 per cent. Collected cases of extraperitoneal rupture witli urinary infiltration have a mortality of 83 per cent. (Mitchell). Wounds Bullet wounds of the bladder are not common, and stab wounds with a bayonet or dagger are rare. Accidental wounds during surgical operations are met with when the bladder is drawn into a hernial sac, in operations on the \iterus, and in symphysiotomy. Falls from a height and impaling of the bladder from the perineum are not rni- common. The wound is complete and frequently double ; it may be intra- or extraperitoneal. Bladder wounds are usually complicated by injury to the bony pelvis, rectum, uterus, vagina, urethra, and intestine. Foreign bodies—e.g. fragments of clothing, pieces of wood, bullets —are frequently carried into the wound, and infection is constant. Symptoms.—Shock is usually present, and may be profound. There are pain, tenesmus, frequent desire but inability to pass water ; a few drops of blood may be passed after much straining. Urine mixed with blood may escape from the wound, but this may be pre- vented by a coil of small intestine plugging the wound or by the flow of the urine into the peritoneal cavity. There may be profuse haemor- rhage from the wound. When the rectum is injured, ffeces and flatus escape from the wound. Spontaneous closure is very rare, and peri- tonitis almost invariably supervenes, although it may be delayed until the separation of sloughs on the seventh or eighth day. In extraperitoneal wounds where the wound is small and oblique there is perivesical and periurethral extravasation of urine, which becomes infected, and this is followed by thrombosis in tlic vesical and prostatic veins. Recto-vesical or vesico-vaginal fistula, or fistula on the surface of the abdomen, scrotum, perineum, thighs, or buttocks, is very common. Diagnosis.—The escape of urine from the wound and the presence of blood in the urine with tenesmus are sufficient to establish the diagnosis. The intra- or extraperitoneal nature of the wound will usually be decided by operation. Treatment.—Laparotomy should be performed as soon as possible when there is a woimd of the lower part of the abdomen. Wounds of the bladder and intestine are searched for and sutured. An extraperitoneal wound on the anterior surface of the bladder may be used for draining the bladder, or it may be closed and a catheter tied in the urethra. When the bladder has been wounded from the