STRANGULATED HERNIA 641 of the onset of distension must be considered in tlie diagnosis of its cause. Thus a gradual, slow development is the rule in strangulation, whereas rapid and acute increase suggests perforation of the bowel. Distension may occur even when omentum only is strangulated, the paralysis which originates it being due to reflex inhibition of the splanchnic nerves. 4. Appearance of a swelling,—The above signs, in association with a swelUng at the umbihcus, groin, saphenous opening, or other hernial site (especially when the swelling is irreducible or has recently become so, is tender on manipulation, and transmits no expansile impulse on coughing), presents a picture the significance of which should be obvious. The swelhng is always tender, and the pain is referred to the umbilical region. For the rest, the condition of the patient is as follows : The tonguo is thickly coated, at first with dirty white fur, later becoming dry and brown, and sordes form on the lips. The patient's face assumes the sunken, anxious appearance Imown as " facies Hippocratica," his voice becomes feeble and conversation is carried on in whispered gasps, articulation being indistinct owing to dryness of the tongue. The breath becomes horribly foul, the pulse rapid and running, the tem- perature often subnormal; gradually exhaustion sets in and the patient dies in a comatose, asthenic condition. At times death is due to inhalation of fgeculent vomit and subsequent gangrene of the limg or septic pneumonia; or, the bowel becoming gangrenous, general septic peritonitis terminates the case. Varieties of strangulated hernia.—All the forms of hernia may undergo strangulation, but that most frequently affected in f roportion is the femoral variety, although inguinal strangulation is the more often met with. Umbihcal is less frequent, but more serious, since it occurs in obese and elderly women of plethoric habit. Ventral hernia rarely becomes strangulated, owing to the wide neck of the sac; whereas obturator, sciatic, and gluteal liernias are rarely seen except in the condition of strangulation, wliich generally occurs on their first appearance. Retrograde strangu lation,—This is a rare variety, first described by Maydl, in which the contents of the sac remain normal, but in which a part of such contents having retraced its steps and passed mto the abdomen again, becomes there strangulated. It has been described afiecting bowel, omentum, the appendix, and Fallopian tube. (Sultan, see Bibliograpliy). Causes of strangulation.—A hernia which has been spontaneously reducible for years may become strangulated as the result of— 1. Some excessive exertion, such as the hfting of a heavy 2 i>