RECTUM AND ANAL CANAL 724 artery. The ihsemorrlioidal vessels having been ligatured and divided, the peritoneum is severed as in (a), and the separation of the rectum from its connexions is also conducted in a similar manner. The opera- tion is completed from the perineum after removing the coccyx, but the sphincters are preserved, or by some surgeons the lower rectum. In the former method the bowel is drawn down and removed so that the portion within the grasp of the sphincters is without tension, and it is there sutured ; in the latter, the pelvic colon is anastomosed to the rectum. In this operation, less bowel will generally be removed, and hence less of the mesentery of the pelvic colon, than in (a). Choice of methods.—When weighing the respective values of the operation performed entirely from the perineal aspect, and that by the combined abdomino-perineal method, two points have to be considered, viz. the relative mortalities and the end-results. Mortality.—All operations for rectal cancer are prolonged and severe, and accompanied by considerable shock. The immediate mortality, therefore, is by no means slight. In addition, the prolonged suppuration in the perineal wound which sometimes occurs may lead to a fatal issue in persons already enfeebled by a rectal cancer and its complications. The mortality of the Kraske operation is probably greater than that of the one performed entirely through the true perineum. Statistics of mortality given by different surgeons vary widely. The mortality must obviously be influenced by the general condition of the patient, and the extent of operative removal necessary. There is no doubt, however, that at the present day the immediate mortality of the combined method of operating is greater than that of any operation performed from the perineal aspect only, and this is one great argument against the routine performance of the abdomino-perineal operation. End-results.—These, again, are very various as given by different authorities, but the majority of surgeons agree that recurrence after perineal excision and the Kraske operation is very frequent. We have not yet sufficient statistics to show that the combined operation is followed by a more lasting freedom from recurrence. The combined method is theoretically superior to any perineal operation, but its relatively higher mortality necessitates careful selection of the subjects. They should be moderately spare, not too old, free from arterial degeneration or pulmonary disease, and other- wise sound in constitution. , 4-5 h ^ In favour of the abdominal approach it may be urged : (1) That the liver and other viscera may be palpated for metastases, in the presence of which the patient may be spared any mutilating operation. (2) That glandular enlargement may be observed and feasibility of removal decided. (3) That the pelvic peritoneum may be seen and felt (and, of