THE TONGUE 6. Gangrene. from the exposure of the sensory nerve filaments. Sometimes a slight bum is the starting-point of an ulcer, and in some cases the condition has progressed from one of trivial injury to epithelioma. For this reason Butlin warns against the use of the cautery in simple diseases of the tongue. In the corrosions produced by strong mineral acids and caustic alkalis the back of the tongue suffers more than the anterior part; indeed, it is not uncommon for the tongue to escape, the oesophagus and stomach receiving the chief damage. When affected, the mucous covering of the tongue is destroyed and peels off as a superficial slough, and the whole organ swells as in parenchymatous glossitis. Corrosive sublimate produces a characteristic white shrivelled appearance. Severe scalds are most usually met with in children who have attempted to drink out of a boiling kettle, the steam rather than the water producing the injury. The effects are often very severe, the tongue becoming enormously swollen and covered with blebs ; in fact, a state of acute glossitis is set up. In all the above conditions, so long as the trouble remains limited to the tongue there is little need for anxiety, but unfortunately, especially in scalds, owing to the coexistent damage to the epiglottic region and the upper respiratory tract, oedema glottidis and pneumonia may follow. General treatment.—According to the severity of the bvirn or scald, solid food must be prohibited, and the patient should be fed on fluids, even rectally in the more serious injuries. Ice may be sucked, and in adults the painful areas may be painted with a 1 per cent, solution of cocaine ; chlorate of potash mouth-washes are of value from the first; later, when the pain is less, astringent lotions should be substituted. The blebs which form rarely require treatment. A careful watch must be kept for signs of oedema of the glottis, as shown by stridor and dyspnoea. In adults scarification may be of value occasionally, but in children it is wiser to perform tracheotomy than to try what is always a difficult operation, even in adults. INFLAMMATORY DISEASES—ACUTE Acute inflammatory lingual diseases are here dealt with according to the following scheme :— , „ c • 1 ( Local. t Nervous. 1. Superficial. | j^.^^^^ ^ Membranous. 2. Deep. 3. Unilateral. 4. Inflammation of the lingual tonsil. 5. Abscess.