OPERATIONS FOR LINGUAL CARCINOMA 227 of those operations rarely justify their performance, and it must be admitted that cancer of the tongue far back is most unfavourable for surgical treatment. When the jaw is involved anteriorly, the outlook, though less hopeless, is distinctly unfavourable. An attempt should be made to remove the gTowth and the affected bone by some of the methods mentioned above ; and it is often possible to leave a bridge of healthy bone from the lower border of the horizontal ramus, with the effect of contributing to the patient's comfort. Whatever operation is performed, it is always advisable to pass a suture through the stump of the tongue, and to bring the suture out of the mouth and fasten it to the cheek or ear. After-treatment in operations for lingual cancer.— For the first twenty-four hours, or longer in severe cases, the patient must be kept lying on the side or even on the face, with the head low, so that the discharges can trickle out of the mouth on to a pad of gauze or wool. A special nurse should always be in attendance, and should watch for bleeding (usually venous oozing) and for obstruction to respiration. Bleeding as a complication will be considered later. If the breathing becomes obstructed, the stump of the tongue should be pulled forwards by means of the attached string ; and if that fails, a finger should be passed to the base of the tongue, the pharynx cleaned, and the stump hooked forwards. These manoeuvres usually succeed. Morphia, gr., should be given, and the patient should be fed by nutrient enemata and disturbed as little as possible. If the weather is cold, screens or curtains should be placed round the bed, and a bronchitis kettle charged with some antiseptic, such as tinct. benz. co. or guaiacol carbonate, should be used to keep the air warm and moist. This is not intended to imply that every patient is to be kept in an atmosphere saturated with steam, but to suggest that there are very definite uses still for the steam-kettle. If the steaming is overdone there is a greater risk of pneumonia. Should the patient show signs of collapse after the operation, enemata of hot saline (103° F.) with strong coffee and brandy should be given. During the first twenty-four hom-s the patient should not be dis- turbed ; the mouth may be swabbed out occasionally with some weak permanganate of potash if there is any tendency to the collection of clots and mucus ; but on the whole the quieter he is left the better, for frequent and unnecessary manipulations are decidedly harmful. Small pieces of ice may be given to him if the mouth is dry and thirst is intense. At the end of the twenty-four hours any gauze plugging that