DYSPEPTIC TONGUE 179 The dyspeptic tongue is usually enlarged, its surface smooth, more sensitive and redder than normal; the surface epithelium has been shed, and the sensitive papillae are exposed. In some instances the pain complained of is of a severe burning cliaracter ; in appearance the tongue seems raw, though in actual fact the raw " areas are covered by a thin layer of epithelium. These areas are very liable to suffer from slight traumatism which would not affect the normal organ, and the patient has recurring attacks of acute soreness and excoriation. Pathologically the tongue appears to be the seat of a chronic super- ficial inflammation, though here the response is peculiar when com- pared with the other varieties of this affection, in that its sensitiveness is increased and the epithelium has no tendency to proliferate. Gouty subjects are especially liable to this condition. Treatment.—t^uitable measures must be taken to deal with the dyspepsia, or gout if it be present, and the teeth must be carefully attended to, since collections of tartar, sharp edges, or carious stumps will, if allowed to remain, render any treatment abortive. Mouth-washes of chlorate of potash or other non-irritating anti- septics should be employed, and the tongue should be painted occasion- ally with chromic acid, 10 gr. to the ounce. If there is much pain a half-per-cent. solution of cocaine may be applied, or a cocaine ointment may be ordered. Carbolic acid (1-80) will sometimes succeed when tlie other drugs fail. 3. FURROWS The tongue is sometimes found cut up by a number of deep grooves or furrows. Some, but not all of these, are the result of chronic inflam- matory changes, either simple or specific, the grooves resulting from the scarring in the submucosa ; the syphilitic varieties will be con- sidered later. In other cases, as, for example, the " fern-leaf pattern " tongue, the inflammatory origin is not so clear, and we are forced to the conclusion that such a condition is only one of the natural varieties of configuration in which the depth of the natural grooves or sulci is exaggerated. The natural grooves are usually longitudinal, the acquired transverse. When, however, fissures or cracks result from chronic inflam- mation, they are apt to be a source of anxiety to the patient from the pain they cause, and to the surgeon from their ten- dency, if remaining unhealed for a long time, to become the seat of cancer. Treatment.—The mouth must be kept clean with ordinary mouth-washes, and chromic acid applied to the bottom of the fissure by means of a small camel's-hair brush. Ointments are very useful.