PYELONEPHRITIS 801 In old-standing cases with persistent sinuses a diseased kidney or an imperfectly drained empyema may necessitate neplirectomy, resection of portions of ribs, or other secondary operations. The mortality of cases treated without operation is £0 per cent., and of operated cases 7-1 per cent. (Watson). SURGICAL INFLAMMATIONS OF THE KIDNEY AND PELVIS These may be bacterial or nonbacterial, and caused by mechanical means or by the excretion of irritants. Aseptic Pyelonephritis This form of pyelonephritis occurs under the following conditions :— 1. In acute retention of urine.—Guyon and Albarran have shown that in retention of urine there may be acute congestion of both kidneys, progressing to interstitial and intratubular hemorrhages with desqua- mation of tubular epithelium. The quantities of urine and of renal salts are reduced, and blood, renal cells, and epithelial and blood casts are present. Polyuria follows relief of the retention, and the urine contains casts for several days. If the obstruction is completely relieved and sepsis is absent, the symptoms entirely disappear. 2. Due to excretion of irritants.—A mild catarrhal pyelonephritis may be induced by the elimination of certain balsamics, such as sandalwood, copaiba, and turpentine. 3. In chronic urinary obstruction.—In this condition the ureters and renal pelvis become dilated and thickened, and chronic interstitial nephritis develops. Both kidneys are affected, but usually unequally. The symptoms are slight and easily overlooked. Dull aching pain in one or both kidneys, constant thirst, especially at night, and anorexia are associated with frontal headache and appreciable loss of weight. The temperature is slightly subnormal, and the tongue dry. There are no cardiac or vascular changes ; the kidneys cannot be felt and are not tender. The urine is pale and clear, free from tube casts and cells, and contains a low percentage of urea and other urinary constituents. The polyuria amounts to 80-100 ounces per diem, and is more marked at night. Infections of the Kidney and Pelvis Bacteriology The Bacillus coli is the commonest cause of renal infection ; next in frequency come the staphylococci (especially aureus), streptococci, Proteus vulgaris (Hauser), and B. pyocyaneus ; the pneumococcus and the gonococcus are rare. The B. coli is usually found in pure culture, but sometimes is mixed with proteus, staphy- lococcus, or streptococcus. Anaerobic bacteria are occasionally found.