GASTRIC CARCINOMA: TREATMENT 389 whe7i the groivth is producing fyloric obstruction ; in otlier cases no good results. If cardiac obstruction is present, gastrostomy may be clone ; in certain cases jejunostomy may be advisable. The incision should be made through the right rectus muscle or in the middle line, and the stomach examined. The question of malignancy must first be settled. If doubt exists, a portion of the ulcer or a gland is removed and examined microscopically while a gastro-jejunostomy suitable for use after partial gastrectomy is being performed. If a rapid microscopic examination cannot be obtained the abdomen should be closed, and a second operation undertaken at a later date if the section reveals malignancy or the progress of the case renders the diagnosis certain. If the suspected carcinoma is situated on the lesser curvature the absence of relief as the result of the gastro-jejunostomy will clinch the diagnosis. If the growth is obviously malignant its operability must be settled. The decision depends upon the presence and degree of adhesions and infiltration of other structures, particularly the liver and pancreas, of massive glandular enlargements, and of secondary deposits in the peritoneum or at a distance. In every case a careful examination should be made before this question is decided. If from the presence of adhesions it is impossible to make out the nature of any tumour present, gastro-jejunostomy should be performed, and a further opera- tion imdertaken after the lapse of a fortnight. If the mass has been due to chronic ulcer, great improvement will have taken place ; in all probability the tumour will have almost completely disappeared, or, eveji if it be carcinomatous, the subsidence of the coincident inflam- matory swelling will have made operation easier. The death-rate of simple exploratio7i without further interference is small ; Mayo Robson estimates it at from 3 to 5 per cent. Among 39 personal cases, 1 died the following day—a patient in whom the disease was very advanced and operation was undertaken to attempt to give some relief to the incessant vomiting, but his condition was so bad that even jejunostomy was thought in- advisable. Occasionally after an exploratory operation a period of improve- ment sets in and all symptoms disappear, for a time raising a doubt as to the correctness of the diagnosis. Three such cases have been under my care. A man of 48 who had had symptoms for eight weeks was explored in October, 1903, a large malignant growth on the lesser curvature being found. He left hospital a month later, feeling quite well. All symi^toms were in abeyance for fourteen months ; they then returned, and he died in hospital in March, 190.5, the diagnosis being confirmed at autopsy. A case has been recorded by Keen and Stewart in which symptums were in abeyance for seventeen months after exploration.