HYDROCELE OF THE TUNICA VAGINALIS 953 causing the hydrocele to be constricted in places, or even loculated. In old cases, especially those that have been tapped many times, fibrosis of the tunica may be present, and in some instances the walls of the sac are as much as half an inch in thickness. Calcification of these thickened sacs, which are often of cartilaginous hardness, is not infrequent. In rare instances, projecting from the walls of the sac or lying free in the cavity are small cartilaginous or fibrous bodies. In a few specimens, inflammatory adhesions may partially obliterate the cavity of the tunica and localize,the hydrocele to one part. Testis.—In long-standing cases, thickening of the tunica albuginea with atrophy of the testis may be present, due to the pressure of the fluid, but tliis is rarely important. In some cases the distension of the digital fossa of the tunica with fluid lifts the epididymis away from the body of the testis, and thus thins out the vasa efierentia, which may be so pressed upon as to prevent escape of spermatozoa from the gland, and in this way double hydrocele in a young subject may lead to sterility. In some long-standing cases the testis is so squeezed out and incorporated with the wall of the hydrocele that it is not immediately discoverable on opening the hydrocele. Spermatic cord.—This is sometimes a little thickened from h}'pertrophy of the cremaster fibres. Penis.—In large hydroceles the skin of the penis and scrotum may be so dragged forward that the penis is lost in it, and only represented by a dimpled fold of skin resembling the umbilicus. Symptoms.—The patient rarely complains of pain, but only of the discomfort and weight of the distended scrotum or the difficulty of micturition and inconvenience if the penis is buried. On examination, a pear-shaped swelling with base downwards is iound distending one-half of the scrotum. The skin of the scrotum is unaffected, and the fingers can get above the swelling and grasp the cord, showing that there is no communication with the abdomen. Usually the scrotum can be readily folded up on to the abdomen. The swelling is found to be translucent, but several fallacies in connexion with this sign may occur. In the first place, translucency is absent if the walls are very thick or calcareous, or if hemorrhage has occurred (hsematocele) ; in the second place, translucency may be present in a hernia of a child if it contains gut distended with gas. The testis, when distinguishable, is usually found below and behind the fluid, but in cases of inversion of the testis it is found in front—a point of great importance when the hydrocele has to be tapped. The swelling is usually plainly cystic to the touch, and has no expansile impulse on cougliing. The affections most likely to cause errors in diagnosis are htematocele, cysts of the epididymis or testis, scrotal Jaernias, and neoplasms of the testis; and the condition may be