I034 THE UTERUS CEdematous degeneration.—An oedematous swelling afEects the interstitial connective tissue, and the muscle fibres degenerate. The tumour becomes pulpy and soft, and rapidly enlarges {see Fig. 596). Myxomatoid degeneration.—This is by some regarded as an advanced stage of the last form. Centrally, the tumour is converted into a yellow-green jelly-like substance. True mucin is not present. Cystic degeneration.—This, again, is probably a further stage of softening. Usually only one cavity is present, but there may be several. When the change is com- plete the resemblance to an ovarian cyst is considerable. (Fig. 603.) All the last three forms of de- generation are frequently accom- panied by chronic peritonitis in the neighbourhood of the tumour. Red degeneration.—The tu- mour here exhibits varying tints, from pink up to mahogany-brown. The change is considered due to thrombosis of the vessels supplying the area, and is therefore analog- ous to " red " infarction. In some cases, however, the coloration is due to free pigment, probably hematogenous ; and it is often in- tensified on exposure to the air. The degeneration has frequently been recorded in connexion with pregnancy, and is characterized by the sudden onset of pain in the tumour. Naevoid degeneration.—Oc- casionally a myoma becomes very vascular, a number of thin-walled blood spaces developing in the tumour. The vessels of the tumour capsule in particular become very large, and the whole uterus is at last covered with large varicosities. These tumours grow very fast, and enlarge at each menstrual period ; on auscultation a murmur is heard over them. The general likeness to pregnancy is often considerable. " Caseous " degeneration.—A rare change, in which the myoma undergoes a transformation into a substance resembling adipocere. This is not a true caseation. Sarcomatous degeneration.—About 2 per cent, of all myomas Fig. 600.—Posterior cervical my- oma. The uterus also contains a small submucous polypoid myoma.