1007 INVERSION A similar proceeding having been carried out in the opposite side, each knuckle is fixed by the suture closing the little slit in the aponeurosis on its own side, and the abdominal wound is then sutured. This proceeding shortens the whole of the front part of the broad ligament on either side and leaves the uterus in a truly normal position. It is, therefore, a better operation than ventro-suspension for retro- version, but is inadvisable where prolapse also exists, as it does not effect a sufficiently direct upward pull on the uterus. INVERSION OF THE UTERUS This rare displacement most often occurs immediately after child- birth. Occasionally, however, cases of chronic inversion are seen, with an obscure relation to parturition. Three degrees of inversion are described ^ —(1) where the inverted fundus is still within the uterine cavity; (2) where it \^ is extruded from the external os; and (3) f where the entire body and cervix is turned ]■ inside out. Clinical features.—The accident, when occurring after labour, is marked by severe shock and haemorrhage. In chronic cases there is bearing-down pain, with bloody discharge, which may be offensive. The everted uterine mucosa becomes ulcerated or may superficially Fig. 581.—Partial inver- slough. (Fig. .581.) sion of the uterus. Diagnosis.—The mass might be mis- taken for a protruding myoma, but careful examination and the passage of a sound make the condition clear. Treatment.—A puerperal inversion must be at once reduced by manipulation, but chronic cases can rarely be so treated. The recognized method for these is the use of the Aveling repositor, i.e. a boxwood cup on a rigid stem which is kept pressed against the inverted fundus by indiarubber straps attached to a waistband. It is important to place tampons around the repositor to keep it from slipping off the mass to which it is applied. After twenty-four hours it will usually be found that the displacement has been corrected. . If the repositor fail, the utero-vesical pouch may be opened from below, and the everted anterior wall of the uterus incised from the cervix downwards. The cupped interior of the inversion is thus laid open, the adherent appendages which prevent its reposition are freed, the inversion is reduced, and the wound in the anterior uterine wall and vaginal cervix subsequently closed by sutures. An alternative