593 OBLIQUE INGUINAL HERNIA process of the transversalis fascia ; and (6) tlie extraperitoneal fascia which overlies the peritoneum. These coverings, with the exception of the cremaster, which is often hypertrophied in old-standing cases, are not, as a rule, easily demonstrable, being usually fused together. In large hernias which have existed for many years, the internal ring often becomes so much distended that its inner edge is shifted inwards ; similarly, when the hernia is of the scrotal variety the outer edge of the external ring becomes displaced outwards, so that in time the two rings are found to be superim- posed, and several fingers, or even the whole hand, may be passed into the ab- domen, the oblique character of the hernia being then apparently lost. The relative position of the deep epigastric artery, however, will always show the true nature of the hernia ; the position of the struc- tures of the spermatic cord will also help to distinguish it, for, although in large hernias they may be much separated by pressure, they will still lie deep to the sac. Associated with the hernia there is often a marked weakening of the whole inguinal region, permitting of much bulging when the patient stands up or strains, and this is especially common where the hernia is bilateral. It may be due, in elderly subjects with large hernias, to the pre- sence of the hernia itself, but in young subjects it is often congenital, and will pjg_ 447._Sac of ordinary be found to be caused by a high origin inguinal hernia, of the internal oblique muscle and a defect in its development. The progress of an inguinal hernia may be comparatively slow till it reaches the extei-nal abdominal ring, from which time the force of gravity favours its descent, and it rapidly enlarges, becoming " inguino-scrotal " (Fig. 446) or " in- guino-labial " according to the sex of the patient. Where, however, the sac is that wliich has been described as " congenital vaginal " or " congenital funicular," the development of the hernia is in some cases actually immediate, the swelling appearing suddenly on some unusual expiratory effort. On arriving at the scrotum, many of these hernias, especially in elderly subjects, attain an enormous size, and cause great discomfort owing to their weight and to the fact that the penis is frequently sac ; T.V., tunica v.i- , piibes ; R, rectus muscle.