594 HERNIA retracted into the mass so as to disappear out of sight, micturition being thus rendered difficult. (Fig. 448.) Such hernias are usually quite irreducible, frequently become incarcerated, but are seldom stran- gulated, owing to the width of the neck of the sac. The skin over such scrotal hernias is frequently eczematous, excoriated, or even sloughy, owing to the dribbling of urine during micturition. Direct inguinal hernia—In this variety the hernia, in place of making its exit by the internal abdominal ring, leaves the abdomen internally to the deep epigastric artery. It thus enters the in- guinal canal through its posterior wall, carrying the stretched fibres of the conjoined tendon of the internal oblique and trans- versalis muscles with it. It then takes the same course as the oblique variety, passing into the scrotum or labium through the external abdominal ring. It is probably the only variety of hernia which can truly be said to be acquired, and even in some cases it, too, is possibly congenital in origin. The cover- ings of direct hernia are exactly similar to those of oblique, ex- cept that the cremasteric fascia of the latter is replaced by the conjoined tendon in the former, and that the term " infundibuli- form " is not usually applied to the transversalis fascia here. The sac lies posteriorly to the spermatic cord, which it often separates widely by pressure. The following characters of direct hernia differentiate it from oblique hernia: (1) It occurs at a later period of life. (2) It is slower in its development, less frequently becomes scrotal, and more often rises towards the pubic region. (3) The neck of the sac is wide, and the hernia is often a mere bulging. (4) It is much less liable to strangulation, and is as a rule reducible. (5) It more often contains small bowel, and not infrequently a portion of the bladder. (6) It much more frequently results in a very large gap in the abdominal wall, and consequently more cases require filigree-implant- ation for their cure. (7) It is more commonly bilateral. (8) From the first, one or more fingers may be passed directly back into the abdomen, whereas this can only be done in the case of oblique Fig. 44S.—Scrotal hernia; cured by double-filigree method. (Author's case.)