777 THE UPPER AND LOWER URINARY TRACT By J. W. THOMSON WALKER, M.B.Ed. F.R.C.S.Eng. THE KIDNEY Anatomy of the kidney.—The kidney extends obliquely from the level of the middle of the 11th dorsal vertebra to that of the transverse process of the 3rd lumbar vertebra. Behind it lie the diaphragm, and the anterior layer of transversalis aponeurosis, which separates it from the quadratus lumborum muscle, the costo-vertebral ligament, and, at the lower pole, the psoas. The pleura is in relation with the kidney between the diaphragmatic origin from the external arcuate ligament and the 12th rib. The anterior relations are shown in the accompanying diagram. (Fig. 537.) The kidney lies embedded in a fatty capsule contained within the fascia propria or perirenal fascia. The perirenal fascia appears between the transversalis fascia and peritoneum, and di\ades at the outer renal border into an anterior layer which crosses in front of the kidney and great vessels, and a stronger posterior layer, the fascia of Zuckerkandl, which, after supjilying a fine covering to the renal vessels, becomes attached to the vertebral bodies. Above, the layers, after enclosing the suprarenal, become attached to the diaphragm : below, the anterior layer lines the peritoneum, while the posterior layer is gradually lost in the extraperitoneal fat. The perirenal fascia thus forms an envelope open on its internal and inferior aspects. The true renal capsule closely invests the organ and enters the hilum, but is easily strijjped from the surface. The renal pelvis is the trumpet-shaped upper expansion of the ureter which enters the sinus of the kidney. It usually presents two primary divi- sions, each divided into calyces, and on the average can hold 3| drachms, tliougli distension with more than 2 drachms causes pain. The renal artery divides at the hilum; two or three branches pass in front of and one behind the pelvis. One of the anterior branches passes to the upper pole, sometimes without entering the hilum. The arterial supply is divided into an anterior and a posterior system, independent of each other. The least vascular line, or exsanguine line of Hyrtl, runs parallel to and a little behind the convex border, and separates the anterior and posterior arterial systems. An additional renal artery is present in about 20 per cent, of bodies, more commonly on the left side.