MALIGNANT DISEASE OF RECTUM 715 most frequent variety. The growth usually originates in the sub- mucosa, but is said to commence sometimes in the muscular wall. It forms a sessile mass projecting into the lumen of the bowel; occasionally it may become more or less pedunculated, and has been known to prolapse during defsecation. It may involve only a limited portion of the rectum, but occasionally tends to grow extensively both circumferentially and vertically, clinically resembling chronic inflammatory conditions, for which it has not infrequently been mis- taken. The mucosa covering a sarcoma may sooner or later ulcerate. The growth tends to invade parts surrounding the bowel ; glandular involvement is not uncommon, but visceral deposits are rare. The melanotic variety has usually occurred at the anus, but has been seen also in the rectum. It is very malignant, visceral deposits occurring early. The symptoms are similar to those of carcinoma (p. 718). The lumen of the bowel is, however, less encroached upon, and the obstruction less marked. Diagnosis.—A sarcoma has to be differentiated from carcinoma, from chronic inflammatory affections, and from the diffuse ano-rectal syphiloma. In the early stages its submucous position will distinguish it from carcinoma, but later, when ulceration is present, clinical diag- nosis may be impossible. Similarly, differentiation between an ulcerating sarcoma and chronic inflammatory ulceration may be clinically impos- sible, and even extremely difficult microscopically. The treatment is similar to that of carcinoma (p. 720). The ultimate prognosis is bad, recurrence nearly always taking place shortly after removal. Carcinoma of the Rectum^ A carcinoma may originate in the rectum, the anal canal, or the skin at the verge of the anus. About 3 per cent, of primary cancers occur in the rectum. Carcinoma is four or five times as frequent in the rectum as elsewhere in the intestine. Cancer of the anal canal is much less common. Carcinoma of the rectum occurs most frequently between 40 and 60 years of age. Youth is not exempt ; the youngest patient in my series was 13. The younger the patient, the more rapid and malignant the growth. The growth is nearly always single. A few cases are recorded in which two primary growths were present in the rectum, and rarely two primary growths have been reported, of which one was in the rectum and one elsewhere. The tumour may originate in any part, but a common starting-point is low down, within reach of the finger ; 1 See also Vol. I., x). 553.