471 CHRONIC OBSTRUCTION The mucous membrane is irritated by the products of decom- position in the stagnating contents, and is in a condition of chronic catarrh. Ulceration supervenes either as a result of the action of toxins on the inflamed and stretched mucous membrane—the " dis- tension ulcers " of Kocher—or from the pressure of hard fsecal masses in the lower colon—so-called stercoral ulcers (Fig. 425). The ulceration may extend through the bowel and lead to peritonitis, or suppuration in the retroperitoneal tissue. So long as the vascular mechanism of the bowel is intact, gases do not collect in the dilated portion, as they are absorbed into the circulation, or pass through the narrowed lumen into the bowel beyond. The segment helow the obstruction is pale and contracted, and, as a rule, empty, although in some cases the fajcal matter that escapes past the obstruction collects in the lower segment and may form a considerable mass there, and the bowel may even be moderately dis- tended with gas. Effects on the mesentery.—As it gradually becomes more and more distended, tlie bowel may force its way between tlie layers of its mesentery, so that this structure is appreciably shortened. Then the affected segment of bowel becomes abnormally fixed, and this may interfere with such operations as colostomy by rendering it difiicult to bring the pelvic colon to tlie surface. If the stretching process continues, the peritoneum covering the bowel may split in the long axis of the gut—" striation of the mesentery." Clinical features.—The symptoms of chronic obstruction come on insidiously and, from the way in which they are produced,' the progress of the malady is often irregular and intermittent. There are periods, sometimes lasting for days or even weeks, during which the patient has little difficulty with the bowels, followed by others in which a satisfactory evacuation is only obtained by taking strong purgatives or with the aid of enemata. The early symptoms—a feeling of discomfort or a moderate degree of pain and occasional attacks of vomiting, particularly after taking food, and a more or less constant feeling of uneasiness in the abdomen —are usually attributed by the patient to dyspepsia. There is great complaint of flatulence, which the patient has difficulty in getting to pass downwards. Either these symptoms are neglected, or treat- ment is directed towards the stomach. Morning diarrhoea—that is, passage of a fluid stool immediately on getting up—is a common and characteristic symptom of cancerous obstruction of the lower colon. As time goes on, the patient folds a difficulty in securing a regular and satisfactory evacuation of the bowels, and succeeds in doing so only by taking purgatives, the dose and fi-equency of which require to be increased without, however, being followed by a corresponding