472 THE INTESTINES result. Eventually, the medicine has no effect on the bowels, and only induces attacks of severe griping pain, which may be accom- panied by vomiting, and are often relieved by making pressure on the abdomen or by rubbing it. Sometimes the pain is increased by pressure. When the obstruction is in the colon, the patient is often able to locate it very accurately by the point at which the pain reaches the maximum during a spasm of colic. There is often a history of attacks of diarrhoea in which a small quantity of faecal matter mixed with a considerable amount of mucus is passed, and these attacks are attended with great strain- ing and are not followed by any feeling of relief. They are due to catarrhal inflam- mation of the mucous mem- brane set up by the faecal masses retained above the seat of obstruction. As a rule, these attacks of spurious ' diarrhoea" alternate with periods of marked constipa- tion—a combination of cir- cumstances which is very characteristic of chronic ob- struction of the colon. Gradually the bowel above the obstruction is distended and hypertropliied, the abdo- men becomes more prominent, and visible peristaltic waves may be observed to pass along the gut from time to time. Visible peristalsis is perhaps the most certain chnical indication of chronic obstruction. On rectal examination, it is frequently found that, after passing through the anal canal, the finger enters a wide open space, the walls of which it is difficult to reach. When touched, the mucous membrane is smooth, the rugae having disappeared, and the rectum appears to be unduly fixed. This condition, known as " ballooning of the rectum," is due to paralysis of the gut, and is most frequently met with in cases of stenosis of the descending and pelvic portions of the colon. Fig. 406.—Dilated coils of small intes- tine forming " ladder " or " organ- pipe pattern," from a case of chronic tuberculous peritonitis with adhesions. [^Froin T?'ez>£s's Intestinal Obstruction.''^