THE OVARY 1076 Diagnosis.—If the uterus cannot be separated from tlie mass, absolute distinction from a myoma may be impossible. Marked fluctuation and the presence of a fluid thrill are in favour of ovarian origin, but a cystic myoma may present the same signs. Many ovarian tumours do not fluctuate, especially dermoids and multilocular cyst- adenomas, while cyst-embryomas and malignant cysts are largely solid in composition. A vascular murmur over the tumour strongly suggests a uterine origin. The history of menorrhagia usual with a myoma is rare with an ovarian cyst, unless complicated by one of these tumours. Ovarian cysts usually grow much more quickly than myomas, while tumours first discovered under 30 or above 55 years of age are probably ovarian. The frequency with which myomas and ovarian cysts coexist must not be forgotten. Pregnancy is distinguished from an ovarian cyst by the enlargement being uterine, by its usually greater rate of growth, by the presence over it of a vascular murmur and signs of foetal life, and by the corresponding period of amenorrhoea. Ovarian cysts only cause amenorrhoea when they are bilateral and have totally destroyed all normal ovarian tissue. This is chiefly seen in malignant cysts, in which the rate of enlargement may be rapid and pregnancy more particularly simulated. A distended bladder is immediately distinguished on passage of the catheter—a precaution never to be omitted in cases of doubt. Ascites shows signs of movable fluid and produces a different shape of the abdomen, the loins particularly being bulged ; moreover, the front of the abdomen is resonant and the flanks are dull, the reverse being the case with a cyst. Encysted peritoneal fluid, as seen in some forms of tubercular peritonitis or in " encysted serous peri- metritis," may closely simulate an ovarian cyst, but the swelling is fixed and the percussion note frequently partly resonant owing to adherent bowel lying over it. A large hydrosalpinx may be indis- tinguishable from an ovarian cyst, whilst many tense broad-ligament cysts are mistaken for broad-ligament myoma... Retroperitoneal cysts of various kinds closely simulate ovarian cysts, but their front is resonant, and most of them (hydronephrosis, pancreatic cysts) have no connexion with the pelvis. The diagnosis of torsion of an ovarian cyst from rupture of tubal gestation and acute salpingitis is discussed under the latter two headings. The most striking feature is the presence of a large cystic tumour from the very outset of the symptoms. A ruptured papilliferous cyst or other form of cyst with ascites may be mistaken for terminal hepatic cirrhosis or acute tuberculous