GALL-BLADDER AND BILE-DUCTS 752 Intestinal obstruction in connexion with gall-stones may be due to (a) impaction of a calculus in the lumen of the bowel; (b) adhe- sions or deformity associated with an internal biliary fistula ; (c) involvement of the hepatic flexure of the colon by an inflamed gall- bladder. Clinical features of gall-stone disease—Glall-stones are probably three or even four times as common in the female as in the male sex, and, on the average, begin to cause trouble at about the age of 35. In many cases they are quiescent for long periods ; in others they only cause indefinite symptoms, such as " indigestion," or " windy spasms," often erroneously attributed to other causes. Jaundice is infrequent in cholelitliiasis. The symptoms that gall-stones may cause are pain, tenderness, nausea and vomiting, and jaundice, to which may be superadded the symptoms of infection. The physical signs are those of local peritonitis, with or without enlargement of the gall-bladder. Pain may or may not take the form of " an attack of colic." Colic starts abruptly in the epigastrium or right hypochondrium, frequently after a meal and usually during the daytime. The onset may be accompanied by collapse, vomiting, and profuse perspiration. The pain may be agonizing, doubling the patient up, but after a time, vary- ing from a few minutes to several hours, it passes off, leaving the patient exhausted and sore. Other patients suffer from dull aching or sharp pains in the liver region, usually aggravated by food and relieved by vomiting. The pain may be referred to the back, shoulder, neck, front of chest, or down the arm. During an attack there may be rigidity of the whole abdomen, especially marked in the upper right quadrant, which is excessively tender. The tenderness, at first super- ficial, later is only elicited by deep pressure, or better by Naunyn's test, which depends on the inability of the patient to take a full inspira- tion while the examining fingers press deeply down beneath the light costal arch. Sometimes tenderness is found posteriorly, two or three finger-breadths from the 10th to the 12th dorsal spines, either alone or with the anterior tenderness. Nausea and vomiting may occur independently of pain. Nausea is often extreme. When vomiting occurs it is at first of greenish, watery fluid, but afterwards no bile is seen, merely watery fluid and mucus. Jaundice is found only in about 20 per cent, of all cases, and even with stones in the common duct only in 33J per cent. When definite and long-continued, it depends on impaction of a stone in the common duct ; when slight and transient, it may result from catarrh associated with obstruction in the cystic duct. In any case, this symptom does not appear until the day after the attack, but if the