945 DERMOIDS OF THE TESTIS fibro-cystic structure, the cysts being lined with a columnar or flat- tened epithelium. Here and there in the stroma masses of true cartilage are nearly always found, but other parts of the tumour may show a sarcomatous, carcinomatous, endotheliomatous, or chorion- epitheliomatous structure. The metastasis may also show the simple fibro-cysto-chondromatous structure, but in other cases it may be sarcomatous, carcinomatous, or chorion-epitheliomatous. It is probable that these growths arise in sex cells wliich are attempt- ing to develop under some unknown stimulus. Clinically the only diagnosis possible is malignant disease of the testis, and early removal of the testis is indicated in all cases, no matter how slowly growing the tumour may be. DERMOID TUMOURS Under this term several entirely diflierent conditions have been described :— (a) Cases of malignant teratoma which are described above. (6) Pilo-sebaceous dermoids arising in the skin of the scrotum and attached to the testis, but not in or of it. (c) Tumours encapsuled in the testis and containing hair, teeth, bone, etc. If the term dermoid of the testis is to be retained, it should indicate this last variety only. These tumours are very rare, not more than three or four having been described in England in the last five-and-twenty years. They are congenital in origin, but may not be recognized until the patient has reached adult life, and are of very slow growth. At any time during their existence, but particularly at puberty, they may become inflamed and suppurate, discharging hair, teeth, pieces of bone, etc., and so making the diagnosis easy. They should be removed as soon as diagnosed. MALIGNANT DISEASE OF THE EPIDIDYMIS [Malignant disease of the epididymis is rare, only five cases being found in the London pathological museums. Tiie growth is usually a sarcoma, either round- or spindle-celled, but a case of primary squamous-celled carcinoma, has been described. The treatment is removal of the testis as soon as the diagnosis is made. CYSTS OF THE EPIDIDYMIS Cysts of the epididymis have been divided into two classes : («)■ small superficial cysts, frequently multiple and bilateral, occurring in men over 40, rarely growing larger than a pea, and seldom containing spermatozoa ; (b) large cysts growing in the substance of the epididymis,, usually single, occurring in men under 40, growing slowly, perhaps reaching the size of a small orange, and frequently containing sperma- 3t