265 (ESOPHAGEAL RUPTURE The results of operative treatment in 60 cases have been tabulated by Dervil Stetten as follows: — Of 60 cases, 50 were cured and 10 died, a mortality of 16-6 per cent. Of 48 cases in which the sac was excised without f)reliminary gastrostomy, 9 ended in death, a mortality of 18-7 per cent. Of 5 cases in which a preliminary gastrostomy had been performed, 1 ended fatally, a mortality of 20 per cent. All the patients operated on by the other methods recovered. In 4 cases invagination of the sac was employed. In 2 the sac was excised in two stages, and in 1 case the mucosa of the sac was destroyed. Primary union of the oesophagus wound occurred in 21 of the 50 cases that recovered. In the others leakage occurred. No recurrences were reported. RUPTURE Rupture of the oesophagus has resulted from over-distension of its wall, previously weakened by disease. In a few cases in which a rupture was found post mortem, no evidence of disease was present. Bowles and Turner describe the case of a woman aged (12, in whom rupture of the oesophagus occurred after a severe attack of vomiting. West, Andrews, Williams, and others have noted similar cases. Rupture of the oesophagus may be a result of severe injuries to the thorax or upper abdomen. In the absence of disease or injury a rupture is an extremely rare event; I could only find one doubtful case in the pathological records of the London Hospital during the last twenty years. It has been suggested that some degenerative change in the oesophageal wall, so-called " oesophago-malacia," precedes, and may be the direct cause of, the rupture. Rolleston points out that simple ulceration and rupture are generally found in the lower part of the oesophagus. In all the recorded cases the rupture appears to have been situated in the neighbourhood of the cardiac end. The tear is longitudinal, generally of small extent, from J to 1 in. in length, and is complete, so that the oesophageal contents can escape into the posterior mediastinum. The accident appears to be more common in males than in females. Possibly chronic alcoholism may be a predisposing factor. The symptoms generally occurred in association with or imme- diately after a severe attack of vomiting. Extreme pain referred to the lower part of the thorax, both back and front, was usually present. In some of the cases hsematemesis followed, but generally vomiting ceased after the rupture. Attempts to swallow were followed by severe pain referred to the lower part of the thorax. The pulse was either slow and tense, owing to irritation of the vagi, or small and quick if much shock was present. In the early stage no definite physical signs were noted ; later the implication of the mediastinum