THE BREAST 52 specimen is, so far as I Imow, unique, but there seems no doubt that it illustrates the possibility of the actual transformation of a simple fibro-adenoma into a malignant tumour. Duct papilloma and malignant disease.—It is generally admitted that duct papilloma may give rise to duct carcinoma. The epithelium at the base of the papilloma may infiltrate the subjacent tissues; or the papilloma itself, by its continued growth, may erode the opposite wall of the duct and attack the tissues beyond, where its prominences lose their regular structure and infiltrate the tissues in an irregular and malignant way {see Fig. 282, p. 85). Histological varieties of breast cancer.—Carcinoma of the breast presents itself histologically under two forms, spheroidal- celled carcinoma and columnar - celled carci- noma. The former va- riety^—by far the more frequent — originates in the acini, the latter in the ducts of the breast. Some growths present both varieties of epithelium. Tumours originating in the nipple have received separate consideration. Accounts of the his- tology of spheroidal- celled carcinoma have in the past been unneces- sarily complicated because accidental or unimportant variations in the char- acter of the growth have been unduly emphasized. The very diverse appearances met with seem to depend mainly upon three variable factors—(a) the rate of multiplication of the epithelium ; (b) the activity of stroma formation, i.e. the vigour of the reactive or defensive processes ; (c) the degree of cohesion between the cancer cells. (Contrast Plates 8.3 and 84.) Pathological basis of the clinical classification of breast cancers. — The three clinical varieties of cancer of the breast are medullary cancer, scirrhus and atrophic scirrhus. If the epithelium proliferates very rapidly, a soft, bulky tumour is produced, rich in epithelium, and called a medullary carcinoma Fig. 269.—Rapidly growing (medullary) car- cinoma of the breast, presenting large masses of epithelial cells with a mini- mum of supporting fibrous stroma. X 90.