I002 THE UTERUS pull and tlie supravaginal cervix becomes elongated, so that the external os may possibly appear at the vulva while the fundus of the uterus remains at its normal level. Uterine prolapse is aided by high intra-abdominal pressure, and therefore its occurrence often coincides with the adipose and flatulent distension of advancing years. Theoretically, increased weight of the organ should favour prolapse, but considerable enlargement prevents descent through the pelvis, and, as a matter of fact, many a prolapsed uterus is smaller than normal. Very rarely, large polypoid tumours of the uterus have dragged the organ after them in their descent from the vagina. Clinical features.—Three degrees of prolapse of the uterus are recognized—(1) where the cervix is still within the vagina, (2) where the cervix protrudes from the vagina, (3) where the whole uterus is outside the vagina, the latter canal being turned inside out. The symptoms may begin shortly after childbirth, but most com- monly not till some years later. A sense of weight, bearing down and backache is complained of, with vesical irritability or partial incon- tinence of urine. The procident part, when it emerges from the vagina, becomes chafed, scaly and dry, and later ulcerated. The ulcers are typically " callous," with a firm smooth white edge. They cause soreness as a rule, but are liable to acute attacks of inflammation, during which they may suppurate freely, or even slough, with much pain and some constitutional disturbance. Though often mistaken for carcinoma, they very rarely undergo malignant degeneration. Diagnosis.—The patient should be examined in the standing posture for all " gravity " displacements. Elongation of the vaginal cervix and complete inversion of the uterus are the only conditions with which prolapse of the uterus could reasonably be confounded. In neither of those cases is the vaginal vault lowered, whereas in prolapse of the uterus this change is con- stantly observed. The absence of the external os would at once disclose an inversion. Treatment. Pessaries.—Treatment by pessary is proper for patients in whom age, debility, or the probability of further labours contra-indicates operation, and in those who refuse operation or to whom the time entailed means loss of employment. The rubber ring is the most generally useful pessary. In a few cases of slight prolapse, the continued retention of the uterus in proper position for some months, or a year or two, may, by allowing the uterine supports to recover themselves, actually effect a cure. In most cases, however, the treatment is merely palliative. Women wearing a pessary must be instructed to douche at least once a day, and to have the instrument changed every three months.