FOREIGN BODIES 267 the result of but slight violence. The infliction of damage during the passage of bougies to relieve a stricture is not uncommon. The oesophagus has been wounded by " sword swallowers." Symptoms and signs of injury.—The symptoms of oesopha- geal wounds may be masked by those of injury to the surrounding structures. Dysphagia accompanied by vomiting of blood suggests implication of the oesophagus ; attempts to swallow may cause severe pain. If there is an external wound the presence of food or saliva in the discharge points to a wound of the oesophageal wall. In the cervical portion the diagnosis is generally obvious. Treatment- — If possible, an attempt should be made to suture the wound in the wall of the oesophagus. Free drainage is essential. FOREIGN BODIES In children the objects most frequently swallowed by accident are metal toys, pins, and coins. In adults, bones of meat or fish, and other constituents of food too hastily swallowed, may lodge ; or an ill-fitting tooth-plate, especially when worn at night, is very liable to become detached and slip down the oesophagus (Figs. 350, 352). A proportion of these foreign bodies pass down the oesophagus into the stomach, and are voided in the faeces without causing trouble. Impaction of a foreign body in the oesophagus is always a source of great danger. Those with sharp or jagged edges are very liable to cause ulceration or even penetration of the oesophageal wall. Decom- position of retained particles of food as a result of the obstruction is an additional source of danger. Foreign bodies tend to lodge opposite the three narrow portions of the oesophagus. By far the commonest site, however, is the upper part, between the cricoid cartilage and the tracheal bifurcation. Fortunately, foreign bodies seldom become impacted in the lower half of the oesophagus, though this may occur if they have been pushed down by instruments used for their extraction. In children, foreign bodies generally lodge about the level of the episternal notch. In hospital practice the impaction of coins at this level is a matter of common occurrence. The symptoms produced vary considerably. Unless secondary complications arise, but little discomfort may be present. The severity of the symptoms is determined by the site of the impaction and the shape and position of the foreign body. If it be impacted at the upper part of the oesophagus, the larynx may be ii-ritated or actually compressed so that urgent dyspnoeic symptoms are excited. But if. as is usually the case, the foreign body