THE URETER 842 FISTULA Fistula of the ureter may be cutaneous or vaginal, and may be congenital, or result from surgical operation, or follow parturition. On the vesical side of the fistula there is usually stenosis of the ureter, and above the fistula the ureter and kidney are frequently dilated. Infection of the fistula, ureter, and kidney invariably occurs. When the ureter is completely severed, cystoscopy shows no move- ment at the ureteric orifice, but in partial division rhythmic contraction is observed. Methylene-blue solution injected into the bladder will escape by the fistula if it communicates directly with the bladder, but does not escape when the ureter only is affected. It is sometimes difficult to ascertain which ureter is fistulous. This information is obtained by cystoscopy, when the orifice of the affected ureter is motionless and without efflux, and the subcutaneous injection of indigo-carmine is followed by a coloured efflux from the healthy ureter and none from the fistulous ureter. The position of the fistula is ascertained by sounding the ureter with an opaque bougie and obtaining a radiogram. Treatment.—The introduction of a catheter en demeure is impossible in many cases on account of the stricture. When it has been practicable the result has not been permanently satisfactory, the stricture recontracting and the fistula again appearing. Several methods of transplantation of the ureter have been tried. Exposure of the upper end of the ureter and implantation into the bladder is occasionally successful. Implantation into the caecum or sigmoid has been practised with an operative mortality of 58 per cent, in bilateral implantation, and of 29 per cent, in unilateral implantation. Death usually occurs within a short time from ascending pyelo-nephritis. Plastic operations on the vagina and obliteration of the vagina have been successful in a few cases. Nephrectomy should only be performed after other methods have failed. STONE The great majority of stones found in the ureter have been formed in the renal pelvis. Rarely a calculus forms around a foreign body such as a silk stitch (Fig. 546, 3). Impaction usually takes place at the outlet of the renal pelvis, at the entrance of the ureter into the bladder, or at the level of the brim of the bony pelvis. In rare cases the position of the calculus varies with the attitude of the patient. There is usually only one calculus (90 per cent.), but there may be two, three, or as many as twenty-seven. Ureteral calculi are bilateral in only 3"6 per cent, of cases.