MYOMA: TREATMENT Prognosis—Once a myomatous uterus has begun to cause symptoms, no material respite can be expected until tlie menopause. It must be remembered, however, that myomas postpone this event by several years. At the menopause the patient will be relieved of the blood loss, but symptoms dependent upon the bulk of the tumour, its degenerations and accidents, are especially liable to supervene about this time. If these dangers are escaped, the tumour gradually shrinks, though it probably never entirely disappears. The likelihood of car- cinoma developing is always present. Although rarely fatal fer se, a myoma indirectly shortens life by the progressive deterioration of health which the excessive blood-loss produces. In particular, cardiac degeneration is common. A myomatous uterus usually leads to chronic invalidism, but occasionally directly menaces life from excessive bleeding, obstruction to the functions of vital organs, toxic or septic absorption, or the supervention of malignant growth. General remarks as to treatment,—A small myoma causing no symptoms and discovered accidentally should be let alone. Where symptoms indicate treatment, two methods present them- selves, medical and surgical. If menstrual haemorrhage is the only symptom, ergot and other styptic drugs may control it. The adoption of non-operative measures must be considered—(a) where, in the absence of urgent symptoms, the patient expresses strong repugnance to operation ; (b) where the meno- pause is approaching, and moderate hfemorrhage is the only symptom ; and (c) where operation is undesirable on account of cardiac, pidmonary, or other disease. If, however, the bleeding is severe or the patient's social position interferes with the regime imposed by medical treatment, operation should be advised. Again, if the climacteric is several years distant, medical treatment is contra-indicated, for, apart from the life of in- validism to which the patient is condemned, the habitual exliibition of ergot exercises a deleterious effect on the heart and vessels. Symp- toms due to pressure degeneration or any of the accidental occurrences to which these tumours are liable indicate immediate resort to surgery. Pregnancy is undesirable, except when the myoma is small and subperitoneal; moreover, conception is unlikely and dangerous in a myomatous uterus ; therefore removal of the tumour is advisable, even if it involve hysterectomy and obligatory steriUty. Medical treatment.—Ergot is the most satisfactory drug for controlling the menorrhagia. The liquid extract (20 to 30 minims three times daily), combined with strychnine and a dilute acid to exalt its effect, should be administered from a few days before the onset of the flow to its end, and then stopped. Sometimes it gives rise to severe uterine-contraction pain, and may be refused on this 3o