THE INTESTINES 448 by dense connective-tissue fibres. The longitudinal muscular coat is also hypertropliied, but to a less extent than the circular coat. The serous coat shows some degree of fibrous thickening (D. P. D. Wilkie). Etiology.—Great difference of opinion exists as to the deter- mining cause of these changes in the colon, and it woidd appear that no one of the causative factors to which the condition has been assigned is sufiicient to account for all the manifestations of the disease. It seems probable that a number of causes, some anatomical, others physiological, are at work. Such a combination as that suggested by Wilkie ofiers a rational and intelligible explanation of the sequence of events. In the newly-born infant, the pelvic colon and its mesentery are relatively long and lax, and the mesocolon has an extensive attach- ment to the posterior abdominal wall, so that this segment of the bowel enjoys a wide range of mobility. At birth, the lower part of the large intestine, particularly the pelvic colon, is distended with meconium. If, from any cause, the muscular tone of the infant's bowel is below normal, it is easy to understand how this distension may proceed to such an extent as to render the bowel incapable of contracting on its contents and expelhng them. The retained meconium soon undergoes bacterial decomposition, and fermentative gases are formed and add to the distension. From the combined weight of the contents and the gaseous distension, the mobile loop of the bowel may readily become bent or kinked, even to such an extent as to fold or press upon the upper end of the rectum and so occlude it, as by a valve. When the distension increases sufficiently, the pelvic colon rises into the abdomen and temporarily opens the valve, and some of the contents may escape. In its efforts, only partly successful, to overcome the obstruction, the bowel wall becomes hypertrophied and thickened. " The relation which the hypertrophy bears to the dilatation determines the fate of the case. When the hypertrophy fails to keep pace with the dilatation, we get early obstructive symptoms with distension, and frequently death from toxaemia in infancy or early childhood. When the hypertrophy is suf&cient to compensate for the dilatation, the child may reach adult life, sufiering only from a slightly swollen abdomen and a certain degree of constipation. Adult life being reached, compensation does not usually fail till the de- generative changes of old age begin to set in ; then, from fibrous changes occurring in the hypertrophied wall, compensation fails, the bowel dilates further, and leads to the well-known symptoms " (Wilkie). Clinical features.—The condition is much commoner in boys than in girls, and is usually met with during the first year of life.