i6 THE BREAST spreads from the crack, along the lymphatics of the breast, without at first causing obstruction to the flow of milk. Symptoms of acute mastitis.—The symptoms of milk engorgement are present in acute mastitis in a more pronounced degree ; the breast becomes more tense and prominent, and a local induration may become evident, especially in the lower part of the gland, while the pyrexia reaches 103° or 104°. Throbbing pain and often an erythematous blush are present. Such cases usually terminate in abscess, and fluctuation is soon to be detected over the indurated area, while one or more rigors may occur. Treatment of acute mastitis—Hot fomentations should be substituted for the cold applications suitable for milk engorge- ment, the infant should be weaned, and energetic measures taken to stop the secretion of milk. The breast should be carefully supported by a bandage, but any severe degree of pressure is too painful to be borne. A careful watch must be kept for signs of suppuration. Acute Mammary Abscess Though acute mammary abscess is usually connected with lacta- tion, this is not inyariably the case. Thus, infantile or adolescent mastitis, especially if meddlesome treatment be adopted, may not rarely terminate in abscess. At any age an injury of the breast, with or without the formation of a hsematoma at the seat of injury, may lead to an abscess. Occasionally an apparently spontaneous abscess is met with in the adult virgin breast. Of 102 consecutive cases of mammary abscess observed by Bryant, 79 occurred during lactation, 2 during pregnancy, and 21 in patients who were neither lactating nor pregnant. Abscesses of the breast are divided into three classes, according to their situation in the organ—(1) subareolar or supramammary abscess ; (2) parenchymatous or deep or intramammary abscess; (3) retromammary abscess. The first two varieties are common, and usually either occur during the first month of lactation, or follow impairment of health by prolonged suckhng, or the sudden cessation of lactation. Retraction of the nipple, which interferes with the due emptying of the breast by suckling, favours milk engorgement and abscess. The importance of cracks and abrasions upon the nipple has already been mentioned. Retromammary abscess is less closely associated with lactation. 1. In subareolar abscess pus forms immediately beneath the skin of the areola. Accordingly, redness of the skin is an early and pro- minen sj'mptom, and fluctuation is very obvious. The abscess is smaller and causes less constitutional disturbance than the deeper ■varieties of suppuration.