4i6 THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM anterior operations, but not once after 300 posterior operations; W. J. Mayo, not once in 715 operations. The ulcer appears to be due to a continuance of the conditions that lead to the formation of the original gastric ulcer (p. 341), the frequency of this complication after the Y and long-loop type of operations being due to their less efficient action in diminisliing hyper- acidity and to the action of the gastric juice on mucous membrane unused to it. Hyperacidity is frequently present (in 13 out of 18 cases, Paterson). Those cases in which the ulceration occurs at the anastomotic margin are probably due to infection. Symptoms.—These may arise at any time from a few days to years after the operation ; the shortest recorded interval has been two days, and the longest eight years. In more than half the cases, -symptoms appear within a year, in 75 per cent, within two years, of operation. The cases fall into three groups—(i) those with acute symptoms of perforation or hsemorrhage ; (ii) those with symptoms suggesting recur- rence of the original trouble ; (iii) those with perforation into the colon. i. Perforation may occur within a few days of operation ; as a rule it is about a year later, but it has taken place five years after opera- tion. The patient in the interval has usually been quite free from symptoms. The ulcer may be either an acute or a chronic one. In two instances (Battle, Maylard) after anterior gastro-enterostomy, the patient suffered on two occasions from perforation of a jejunal ulcer. Operation in both patients on both occasions was successful. The symptoms resemble those of perforated gastric ulcer, and the difierential diagnosis is impossible. ii. About two-thirds of all the recorded cases fall into this group. In some, particularly after the anterior operation, an abdominal tumour develops as the result of a subacute perforation and adhesions to the abdominal wall. The swelhmg is usually in the region of the upper left rectus muscle. Occasionally a jejunal fistula forms. iii. In 8 recorded cases (Kaufmann, Czemy, Gosset, Herczel, Cackovic, Plorschutz, Lion and Moreau 2), perforation took place into the transverse colon, and in 1 case (Kaufmann) there was a gastro-colic fistula with closure of the gastro-jejunostomy opening. In all the gastro-jejunostomy was posterior, in one (Lion and Moreau) Roux's operation was performed. The ulcer is usually chronic, and symptoms of pain and discomfort after food are followed by vomiting of faecal material or of vomit with a fsecal odour. In many cases undigested food is passed soon after it is taken. Treatment.—This should be preventive. The operation should be of the no-loop type and, if possible, posterior. If from the presence