OPERATION FOR GALL-STONES 757 sometimes, in a very tense gall-bladder, small calculi cannot be felt ; also tliat enlarged glands near tlie neck of the gall-bladder and at the junction of the cystic and common ducts may be mistaken for calculi. After removal of the stones, another examination of the ducts is necessary to ensure that no calculi have been overlooked. In every case the interior of the gall-bladder should be carefully explored by the surgeon's finger. Before opening the viscus the rest of the abdomen must be shut off by gauze-packing. The subsequent steps depend on the conditions found. If calculi are found only in the gall-bladder, are free, and not associated with inflammatory signs, they sliould be removed, and the gall-bladder should then be drained (cholecystostomy). Cholecyst- endesis, by which the opening in the viscus is sutured and the abdomen closed, perhaps with a small drain down to the sutured gall-bladder, is generally inadvisable, for it makes no jarovision for the escape of a possibly overlooked tiny stone, or for drainage of the infected biliary canal. In cholecystostomy a drainage-tube is fastened into the open gall- bladder by an invaginating sero-muscular purse-string suture of No. 1 cliromicized catgut, placed f in. from the cut edge, and the fundus is then fixed to the parietal peritoneum. In simple cases, with free flow of bile, the tube may be removed in from four to seven days. If calculi are impacted in the tieck of the gall-bladder or in the cyst ic duct, with or luithout suppuration or gangrene, an attempt must be made to dislodge them back into the viscus with the fhigers worlung from outside. The gall-bladder must then be opened, its contents removed, and the interior carefully dried with a strand of gauze. If bile at once flows, the duct is free, but in inflammatory conditions the tliicken- ing may delay the appearance of bile for some days. In acute con- ditions, the surgeon need not fear for the ultimate patency of the duct, and may jierform cholecystostomy ; but in chronic cases, if bile does not flow, he must assure himself that the duct is patent, or he must remove the gall-bladder (cholecystectomy). If the obstructing calculus cannot be removed by manipulation, an incision may be made directly over it (cysticotomy), or removal of the gall-bladder may be necessary. In cases of great urgency the gall-bladder may simply be drained, and if the calculus does not come away it may be removed at a second operation. When inflamed and suppurating the gall-bladder and its surround- ings are very vascular, and its removal may be attended by trouble- some haemorrhage. In these circumstances excision is much more dangerous than simple drainage. The same remarks apply to gangrene .of the gall-bladder. This