432 THE INTESTINES still uncertain whether such pain is referable to the bowel itself or to the parietes. Ross first described visceral pain as being of two kinds—splanchnic and somatic, or, as it is now more frequently called, referred pain. Splanchnic pain is located by the brain in the viscus in which it originates, while somatic or referred pain is located in a definite area of the body wall. As an example of splanchnic pain may be cited the pain which is felt in the caecum when that part of the gut is dis- tended with flatus. In commencing appendicitis we have an example of referred pain, because, although the lesion is in the appendix, pain is felt in the vicinity of the umbilicus. The existence of referred pain is now universally recognized, but there is an increasing number of clinicians, of whom Mackenzie was the pioneer, who dispute the existence of splanchnic pain. They believe that the viscera are not supplied with any nerve fibres that are capable, under either normal or abnormal conditions, of giving rise to sensations of pain. The evidence on this point is conflicting, but, if this view is correct, it is difficult to account for the fact that a patient can usually distinguish clearly between a superficial and a deep-seated pain in the abdomen. Referred pain.—The accepted explanation of referred pain is that the intestine is supplied by splanchnic nerves, which are con- nected with cells in the spinal cord. When a lesion of the intestine exists, the splanchnic fibres supplying the diseased area are irritated and convey abnormal impulses to their spinal cells, which are thus stimulated to a condition of hypersensitiveness. These cells in turn irritate neighbouring sensory cells in the cornu, which send impulses along their axis cylinders to their peripheral distribution, and these impulses are interpreted by the brain as if they had originated at the periphery (Fig. 396). The sensitive structures to which such stimuli may be referred are—(1) the skin and subcutaneous tissue, (2) the muscles of the parietes, and (3) the parietal peritoneum ; hence, referred pain may be manifested in any of these situations. The most striking instances of referred pain are those in which the sensory nerves are distributed to a region remote from the diseased viscus ; for example, in affections of the bile passages, fibres of the phrenic nerve convey impulses to the 4th and 5th cervical segments. The sensory cells in these segments supply the skin over the deltoid ; hence, pain in disease of the bile passages is often referred to the region of the shoulder. In affections of the alimentary canal, familiar examples of pain referred to the superficial structures are the pain of commencing appendicitis and of strangulation of small intestine, in each of which