IRREDUCIBILITY AND STRANGULATION 591 only going back. When the contents can no longer be returned, the term irreducible is applied to the hernia. Causes of irreducibility.—(a) Adhesions of the contents to the sac. (b) The matting together of the contents, (c) Lack of room inside the abdomen for the contents of very large and long- standing hernias, (d) The presence of secondary diverticula at the neck of the sac, the contents passing into these rather than into the abdomen {see Interstitial Hernia, p. 610). (e) The presence of any tumour in the sac, whether of the contents or of the sac itself. (/) The presence of enlarged inguinal or femoral glands, {g) Increase of intra-abdominal pressure, whether voluntary on accomit of tender- ness during manipulation, or from the presence of tumours, ascites, etc., in the abdomen. (/*) The presence of ffecal masses, undigested food, foreign bodies, gall-stones, etc., in the bowel contained in the sac. Such a condition is termed incarceration ; when due to impac- tion of faeces it is obviously only probable in the large intestine, (i) Inflammation or oedema of the sac or its contents, {j) Tumours of the inguinal canal or of the cord ; these are commonly either fibroraas, lipomas, or hydroceles. Strangulation.—Occasionally the contents of a hernia become strangulated—i.e. not only are these contents irreducible, but the blood circulation and the passage of flatus and faeces through them is interfered with to such an extent as to result in gangrene, sloughing, and perforation if the condition is not relieved by natural or artificial means. Incarceration can only take place when the sac contains bowel, whereas strangailation may affect any of the contents of the sac. Characters of incarcerated hernia.—More commonly seen in elderly men or in women who are subject to chronic constipa- tion, incarceration is almost confined to the umbilical and inguiuo- scrotal forms of hernia. On examining the hernia, it will be found to be globular in outline, heavy, often devoid of tenderness and pain, and having the consistence of half-dried putty, so that its form can be moulded by the fingers. It is, of course, dull to percussion. It is clear that if no feecal matter can pass the site of hernia, a time will very soon arrive when, the whole of the large bowel becoming full, the small intestine must begin to regurgitate its contents into the stomach. Such a condition is less serious than actual strangulation only because in it there is no arrest of circulation. Frequently, incarceration may persist for a considerable time, the obstruction being partial in character and partaking of the nature of obstinate constipation; on the other hand, it may lead to strangulation from the continued increase of pressure of the faecal contents. The premonitory signs of this are the presence or increase of umbilical