562 THE PERITONEUM walls, the suction action of the diaphragm, and the peristaltic move- ments of the intestines. In disease other factors come into play, some hindering and others assisting absorption. Amongst the chief additional factors which assist absorption are— (1) phagocytosis, (2) increased intra-abdominal pressure, (3) endo- thelial exfoliation. Those which diminish absorption are—(1) diminution of respira- tory movements, (2) diminution of peristalsis, (3) fibrinous deposi- tion upon the peritoneal surface, (4) agglutination of intestinal coils and omentum, (5) lowering of intra-abdominal pressure by lapar- otomy, (6) toxsemic fall in blood pressure. Defences of the peritoneum against bacterial infection.— The introduction of foreign matter, whether sterile or not, is the signal for the appearance in the peritoneal cavity of an effusion of fluid rich in leucocytes, their number varying with the nature of the foreign matter. Any lesion of a peritoneum-covered organ, such as the strangulation of a coil of intestine, inflammation of the appendix, or the twisting of the pedicle of an ovarian cyst, is rapidly followed by the appearance in the fluid of a white staphylococcus of extremely low pathogenetic properties (Dudgeon and Sargent) ; with its appear- ance the exudate becomes rich in leucocytes, and it is upon the phago- cytic action of these white cells, assisted by the body fluids, that the removal of the pathogenetic organisms chiefly depends. If this defen- sive reaction has time to become well marked before any large quantity of infective material has gained access to the peritoneal cavity, the peritonitis which has started at the point of entrance of the infection may be stopped from becoming diffused over a fatally large area, either by complete absorption or by loculation of the effusion. This shutting- off process is brought about by the gluing together of adjacent peri- toneal areas with a plastic exudate, and is assisted by the diminution of respiratory and peristaltic movements. The fibrinous deposit upon the peritoneal surface also serves to limit the absorption of toxins into the subendothelial blood-vessels, and to entangle and hold harmless a certain amount of the foreign matter until such time as it can be gradually and safely removed by phagocytosis. (Plate 98.) INJURIES OF THE PERITONEUM 1. WOUNDS AND CONTUSIONS The peritoneum is rarely injured, either in open wounds or by contusions, sufficiently to cause clinical symptoms apart from con- comitant damage to the abdominal viscera. The visceral injury at first overshadows that of the peritoneum ; later the resulting peritonitis becomes the predominant feature. Contusions of, and haemorrhage