THE UTERUS 1042 account. Should ergot fail, hydrastis and liamamelis may be tried in doses of 15 and 30 minims of the liquid extract and tincture respec- tively. The hydrochloride and phthalate of cotarnin (stypticine and styptol) may also give satisfactory results. At the time of the period the patient should rest in bed ; after it is over, iron in some readily absorbable form should be administered. The treatment of myomas by various forms of electricity has deservedly fallen into disrepute. Surgical treatment—The ideal treatment of a myoma would at first sight appear to be the removal of the tumoiir with con- servation of the uterus. Collected statistics, however, show that myomectomy is no safer an operation than hysterectomy, and that it sometimes fails to cure the menorrhagia because (1) in many cases a much hypertrophied uterus is left behind ; (2) a small submucous tumour may be overlooked and keep up the excessive loss ; and (3) in a certain number of cases new tumours subsequently develop. At this possible cost is gained the dubious privilege of continued menstruation and the undoubted advantage of possible pregnancy, although not more than 10 per cent, of patients on whom myomectomy has been performed subsequently conceive. Myomectomy, then, is only to be preferred to hysterectomy (1) where the operation, though equally efficacious, is associated with less risk, as in small solitary submucous tumours causing haemorrhage, or subperitoneal masses causing pressure or degeneration symptoms; (2) where, on account of the patient's age and social state, the possi- bility of future pregnancy justifies an attempt to conserve the uterus, even at a somewhat increased risk ; and (3) where the patient strongly desires the attempted conservation of the uterus after the possible increased risk has been explained to her. Abdominal myomectomy.—If the tumour is pedunculated, it may be removed by simple ligature of the pedicle in sections. If the tumour is sessile, or its pedicle too massive, it should be enucleated ; the bleeding from the capsule is controlled by under-running with " mattress " sutures, and the peritoneum closed over the uterine wound with Lembert stitches. Interstitial and submucous tumours, unless small and solitary, should not be treated by abdominal myomectomy. Small broad-ligament myomas can be easily shelled out. Vaginal myomectomy.—Small polypoid submucous myomas can easily be evulsed. If the polyp is contained entirely within the uterine cavity the cervix must first be dilated. Sessile submucous myomas, if not larger than a bantam's egg, can be enucleated and removed through the cervix, their capsule having been first divided. Occasionally these tumours will not enucleate owing to capsular adhesions, and adeno- myomas are never enucleable. Enormous submucous tumours can be removed per vaginam piecemeal (" morcellement ") with scissors.