224 THE TONGUE No preliminary tracheotomy or laryngotomy is done. A free incision is made from the mastoid process to the sympliysis, curving down below the hyoid, and a vertical or oblique incision is added below (Fig. 340). The dissection is then carried out from below upwards, all glands, fat, and fascia being dissected away from the main vessels. The facial and lingual arteries are tied near their origin. The interval between the posterior belly of the digastric and the mylo- hyoid is now sought for, and these muscles are retracted, the former backwards and downwards, and the latter forwards, its fibres being divided if necessary. The base of the tongue at its attachment to the hyoid is exposed, and the hyo-glossus is divided along its whole hyoid attachment close to the bone; continuing anteriorly, the genio- hyo-glossus is cut close to the jaw—a difficult step—and the median interval between the muscles is sought for. The genio-hyoid fibres of the genio-hyo-glossus are very rarely invaded and may be left. If only one half is to be removed, the mouth is now gagged open as in Whitehead's method, and the remaining attachments of the organ are divided as in that operation, the posterior division going back to the styloid process. Turning again to the neck, it will now be possible to remove the tongue and the other structures freed by dis- section in continuity, the separation being effected by a few touches of the knife. The wound is left widely open. If the whole organ is to be removed, similar steps are taken on the opposite sides to free the deep attachments and to secure the main vessels ; the oral mucous membrane is divided by the intra- buccal method, and the whole mass is extracted from the side first attacked. Author's modification.—I have recently practised a modifica- tion of this operation for cases of cancer limited to one half of the tongue, with satisfactory results. The main points of difEerence are these :— i. The three flaps fashioned by the skin incisions are turned upwards, backwards, and forwards, and consist of skin only, very little subcutaneous fat being left. ii. The external carotid is ligatured as well as the lingual and facial arteries in the course of the dissection. iii. The dissection is carried right on to the face, above the lower border of the mandible, so that the glands in the parotid and mas- seteric regions are removed. iv. Everything except the main vessels and muscles is removed within the triangular area bounded by these flaps. V. The attachment of the tongue to the hyoid bone is cut through, vi. Before the final step of removing the tongue is attempted, the sterno-mastoid is stitched to the digastric and the hyoid muscles,