27 DISEASES OF BONES. of the teeth themselves, are much eroded (see next specimen). During life the skin over the outer side of the growth had become involved, giving rise to a large [ungating ulcer. ]890 541b. One of the Molar Teeth from the preceding specimen, showing the erosion of the fangs and thickening of the cement. The parts covered by enamel are not affected, but the dentine is much thickened in places. 1890 541c. The Left Lower Jaw of an Ox affected with Actinomycosis. The specimen has been partially macerated, so as to remove the muscles, and is preserved in spirit. A section has been made through a large swelling on the outer side, exposing the fangs of many of the teeth. Around these, and also infiltrating the neighbouring bone, is a new growth, which has a uniform finely granular and caseous appearance. Opening on the buccal mucous membrane on the inner side are two sinuses, the larger of which is ragged and fungating in character. In this, and in specimen No. 541a, the disease is limited to that part of the bone where the molar teeth are situated. 1890 This specimen, together with specimens 541 a and b, were obtained from one of the large slaughter-houses at Berlin, where oxen affected with this disease are not uncommon, especially during the summer months. They were presented by A. A. Kanthack, M.D. 549a. A Calvaria showing partial Perforations of the Skull in a case of Cerebral Tumour. In the right frontal region is seen the upper part of a large opening, which is somewhat square in shape. The greater part of this opening was made in the course of a surgical operation, but there existed beforehand a complete though small perforation in this situation, which was caused by the growth of a cerebral tumour. In the rest of the skull-cap are many holes, about thirty in number, rounded in shape, and varying in size from that of a large pin-head to a quarter of an inch in diameter. The edges of the apertures are clean-cut and are not thick- ened ; in many cases they extend through the inner table, and sometimes almost through the outer table, so that their base is only covered by an extremely thin layer of bone. The holes are scattered over the frontal and parietal bones, the largest being on the left side. There is some general thickening of the skull at the upper part of the pai-ietal bones and in the neighbourhood of the large perforation. The bone between the holes is remarkably roughened, the inner table being studded with little eminences, which have sharp and almost thorny apices. 1888 From a police-constable, aged 30, who had suffered from severe frontal headache, chiefly on the right side, for six months, with vomiting and loss of memory. He had bladder trouble for six weeks, and some paresis of the legs for twelve months. On admission he had double optic neuritis, and was drowsy. The sleepiness increased from 25th September, 1886, until April, 1887, when he was quite comatose, a condition which continued until his death in November of the same year. At the autopsy it was found that the perforations in the skull corresponded to small outgrowths from the brain, which had sprouted through the dura mater. Microscopically, these growths were sarcomata. The dura mater is preserved in Series xxx., 2468b. See Marli Ward Booh for 1887, and Transactions of the Pathological Society, vol. xxxix., p.l. 554a. Lower Jaw of a Man, presenting an Osseous Tumour on its right half. The tumour has grown from the interior of the ramus, immediately above the mental foramen. Its upper surface is indented apparently by the action of the teeth in the upper jaw. 1885 (In Case G.) Presented by G. F. Aldous, Esq.