DISEASES AND INJUKIES OF THE URINARY BLADDER. 195 actually projects into the cavity of the bowel. The projecting portion, however, has broken down, and in this way a fistulous passage has been established between the bladder and rectum ; along it a rod has been passed. At the upper part of the specimen a portion of a catheter has been passed through a supra-pubic puncture which was made a fortnight before the death of the patient. 1887 From a man, aged 54, who first suffered from hfematuria eighteen months before his death. The sarcoma was partially removed by median lithotomy and dilatation of the prostate ; but as the tumour continued to grow, and micturition was difficult and painful, the bladder was punctured above the pubes. See Mcde Surgical Register, vol. v. (1884), No. 2785, and vol. v. (1885), No. 3678*. 2419b. A Bladder, which has been turned with its mucous membrane outwards, to show a very extensive papillomatous growth covering almost the whole of the fundus. Microscopically, the growth consists of complex branching papillai formed of connective tissue covered with vesical epithelium. The growth does not implicate the deeper portions of the bladder, and it is, therefore, not malignant. 1889 From a man, aged 55, who was quite healthy until a year before his death, when he began to suffer from hsematnria. He had much pain on passing urine. See 3Iale Surgical Register, vol. ii. (1888), No. 1873. 2420a. A Bladder, affected with Epithelioma. The mucous membrane is every- where thickened and ulcerated. There are deposits of phosphates about the trigone. The wound made during the operation of cystotomy is seen in front of the orifice of the urethra. 1887 From a man, aged 62. Perineal section was performed upon the patient seven days before his death. See Male Surgical Regider, vol. iii. (1885), No. 1204. 2421a- Portions of a Papillomatous Growth, removed from the bladder, during life, by an opening made through the abdominal walls. The growth, which was of about the size of a small walnut, was attached to the side of the bladder, a little above and behind the left ureter. Microscopically, the growth consists of branching processes of fibrous tissue covered by one or more layers of oval epithelial cells. 1888 From a man, aged 46, who had observed blood in his urine for five years before his death. The urine sometimes stopped whilst he was micturating. There was much pain after micturi- tion and during defsecation, as well as when pressure was made over the pubes. The patient died two days after the bladder was opened. At the autopsy the bladder was found to con- tain much blood. See Male Surgical Register, vol. v. (1887), No. 8296. 2422a. Encephaloid Cancer of the Bladder. 1884 From a patient, aged 60, who had suffered for two years from hfematuria. Presented by Sir William S. Savory, Bart., F.R.S. 2424a. An Urinary Bladder, whose walls and trigone are infiltrated with a dense growth, which is quite smooth on the surface, and is white on section. Similar growths infiltrate the fundus of the organ above the level of the ureters, and one large mass is situated immediately above the left ureter. The tumours were not shreddy or villous, and there were no enlarged glands. The bladder-wall is hyper- trophied. Microscopically, the growth was found to be an alveolar carcinoma, nearly allied to scirrhus. 1889 From a man, aged 62, who for twelve years had difficulty in passing his water. Twelve months before death his urine became foul, and he subsequently had very great pain in the region of his bladder. There was no suspicion of a new growth until after the death of the patient. See Male Surgical Register, vol. v. (1888), No. 376. 2426a. A Bladder, which is symmetrically ulcerated in two places. The ulceration is situated upon either side of the trigone. There is also extensive ulceration at the