SERIES XLIII. DISEASES OF THE UTEMS. 2943b. The right lialf of a congenitally anteflexed Uterus, with a portion of the bladder and vagina. The flexion, which causes the body to form nearly a right angle with the cervix, is situated about the junction of the cervix with the body. The uterus is rather small, the total length measuring two and a half inches. The cavity of the body measures one and three-eighths of an inch, and the cervix three- quarters of an inch in length. The anterior wall at the angle of flexion measures half an inch in thickness, whilst the posterior wall measures five-sixteenths of an inch. 1886 No clinical details could be obtained. The other half of the specimen is preserved in the Hunterian Collection, No. 4590a. Presented by the Royal College of Surgeons of England. 2944a. Section of an Uterus, with a portion of the bladder and left appendages attached. The uterus is in a position of acute anteflexion, so that the fundus is in actual contact with the cervix, and maintained in this situation by adhesions, which pass between it and the bladder. The uterine cavity, which is of normal length, is roughened as if by ulceration, and greatly dilated above the internal os, which, how- ever, is not contracted. The canal of the cervix presents a similar roughened a])pearance, but is not dilated. The bladder is empty, and in a state of systole. The uterine appendages are matted together by adhesions, the result of past peri- metritis. The fimbriated extremity of the Fallopian tube, where it is adherent to the ovary, is dilated into a cyst, a bristle being passed into its orifice. 1883 From a servant-girl, aged 25 years, who died of acute abdominal obstruction. Her men- struation had been regular and painless, and her health good, with the exception of an attack of pelvic inflammation some years before death. Presented by the Sussex County Hospital, in whose Museum is the other half of the specimen. See description of case by W. S. A. Griffith, M.D., in vol. xxv. of the Obstetrical Society's Transactions. A drawing is preserved in Series Ivii., No. 991. 294413. An Anteflexed Uterus, from an old woman, aged sixty-three. The walls are very thin, and the whole organ much atrophied, though not diminished in length. The posterior surface is the seat of a subperitoneal fibroid as large as half an egg, while attached to the mucous membrane of the fundus uteri, close to the Fallopian tubes, are two small mucous polypi. 1883 2945a. Anterior Perimetritis. A large abscess cavity is situated behind and above the bladder in front of the uterus and right broad ligament. It extends above the right half of the fundus uteri ; below, it passes between the bladder and vagina to within two inches of the orifice of the urethra, and two inches below the ex- ternal OS. It is bounded above by a pyogenic membrane, and by the right ovary, which is seen to be much enlarged. It was suppurating. The peritoneum, which normally lines these parts, has disappeared entirely, and has been replaced by a pyogenic membrane. Some of the structures of the broad ligament are thereby