THEIR PELVES, AND THE URETERS. 189 2392b. The Left Kidney, from a patient upon whom nephrotomy had been un- successfully performed fifty hours before death. The operation wound is seen as a slit in the pelvis of the organ. Two small calculi lie in the uppermost calyx, the one smooth and oval, and the other spiculated. The pelvic portion of the ureter is considerably dilated. The greater part of the kidney appears to be healthy. 1888 From a boy, aged 15 years, who had suffered from several attacks of renal colic during a period of ten years. A calculus was felt in the pelvis of the kidney after laparotomy had been performed on the left side, but it could not be detected when an incision into the kidney was made through the lumbar region. Death occurred from shock. The right kidney was healthy. See Male Surgical Register, vol. iii. (1886), No. 1312. CONGENITAL CYSTIC ADENOMA OF THE KIDNEY. 2392G. One half of a Kidney, together with a large Tumour, involving nearly the whole of the cortex and external border. On the cut surface it is seen that there is a well-marked capsule, separating the kidney from the tumour ; this latter is glandular in appearance, consisting of minute cysts, which are just visible to the naked eye. On the outer surface, the cortex of the kidney is thinly spread out over the new growth. Microscopically, the tumour consists of numerous small cysts, varying in size, and each lined by a single layer of short cubical epithelium. Their cavity is occupied by a finely granular material. 1893 The patient was an infant, aged ten months, from whom the kidney was removed by operation. A good recovery ensued ; eleven months afterwards recurrence occurred, and the child shortly died. For a history of the case, see British Medical Journal for April 1st, 1893, p. 694. Microscopical sections are preserved in Series 1., No. 386. Presented by W. J. Walsham, Esq. 2393b. The Urinary Organs, from a case of Bilharzia htematobia. The bladder is contracted, and its mucous membrane is thickened by a number of papillomatous masses, which are found microscopically to contain enormous numbers of Bilharzia ova. The ureters are dilated and thickened. Their mucous membrane is covered with a slate-coloured membrane, also containing large numbers of ova. The pelves of the kidneys are lined with the same membrane and ova. 1889 From an old Arab, who came to the Hospital at Alexandria suffering from dreadful and continuous pain, and passing almost pure blood mixed with enormous quantities of debris containing the ova of bilharzia. Perineal urethrotomy was performed for relief of the pain, but the man died a week later from ursemia. See Transactions of the Patholog ical Society, vol. xxxviii., p. 191. Presented by Dr. Mackie, per Reginald Harrison, Esq. 2393c. The Kidneys, with the Bladder and Ureters, from a case of Bilharzia h^matobia. The bladder is small and contracted, and its mucous membrane is raised into numerous soft swellings, which contain abundance of Bilharzia ova. The ureters are dilated, and their mucous surface is studded with small soft projections, which are also full of ova. The kidneys are in a condition of pyonephrosis, and the mucous membrane of the pelves is covered with little granulations, each containing numberless ova. 1889 From a country Arab, who was admitted into the Hospital at Alexandria. He was passing bloody urine mixed with d6bris, and was in a wretchedly emaciated condition, and suffering agony. By examination above the pubes and per rectum, the bladder was found to be reduced to a small tumour, and it was very painful on pressure, so that it gave the impression of cancer. The bloody matter and debris passed by the urethra swarmed with bilharzia ova. Perineal urethrotomy was performed to relieve the sufferings of the patient, after which he lived for a week or two in perfect ease, dying from chronic uriemic poisoning. At the autopsy many specimens of the parent worm were found in the portal vein. Portions of the lungs, liver, and spleen are preserved in Nos. 1745a, 2237c, and 2306b. Microscopic sections of the bladder and kidneys are preserved in Series Iv., Nos. 417, 395, and 394. The female worms are preserved in the next preparation. Presented by Dr. Mackie. o 2