126 DISEASES AND LNJUKIES OF THE STOMACH, 1948a. Portion of a Stomach from a man, aged thirty-two, who died from the effects of poisoning by oxalic acid. Nearly the whole of the mucous membrane is in a soft and sloughing condition, with dark brown patches in places. Near the centre of the specimen is a large oblong patch, from which the mucous membrane has been separated, leaving only the muscular coat, which again is very thin towards the lower part. 1890 The man was brought into the Hospital dead. See Medical Post-Mortem- Booh, vol. xv., p. 61. 1949a. A Portion of the Stomach from a man who died from the effects of taking corrosive sublimate. The mucous membrane was at first of an ashen-grey colour, which has deepened to a brown as a result of exposure to the light. It was shghtly congested in the neighbourhood of the cardiac orifice. 1888 From a man, aged 76, who swallowed a large quantity of corrosive sublimate in a glass of water. He rapidly became collapsed, and died two hours and a half after taking the poison. For further details of the case, see The British Medical Journal, vol. ii. (1885), pp. 599-600. The duodenum from this case is preserved in Series xviii., No. 20-13a. A drawing of the stomach whilst it was still fresh is preserved in Series Ivii., No. 389. Presented by Dr. C. R. Walker. 1949b. A Portion of the Stomach from a case of acute phosphorus-poisoning. The mucous membrane appears to be normal, but microscopically there is a general degeneration of the gland cells ; the degeneration is best marked in the ovoid cells. 1888 From a man, aged 36, who accidentally ate some bread and butter on which phosphorus paste had been spread. He became drowsy and giddy an hour afterwards, and subsequently vomited and had great epigastric pain. On admission to the Hospital, four days after the accident, he was slightly jaundiced, and had marked abdominal tenderness. The eructations were said to taste of phosphorus. The liver and spleen could not be felt on palpation. The patient died in a collapsed condition eight days after eating the phosphorus. See Lulie Ward Booh for 1884, No. 1534. The liver is preserved in Series xxi., No. 2238a. 1949c. A Portion of a Stomach showing the changes which have resulted from the ingestion of carbolic acid. The mucous membrane is congested, swollen, and velvety in appearance, and there are numerous small haimorrhages upon it. (Cf. No. 2044a.) 1888 From a man, aged 70 years, who drank four ounces of a solution of impure carbolic acid. He was not found until two days after his death. His lips were burnt. The spleen and stomach smelt very strongly, the kidneys slightly, and the liver still less of carbolic acid. There was intense congestion of the duodenum, which gradually decreased to the colon. Presented by John Adams, Esq. 1949d. A Stomach, together with the last four inches of the oesophagus, from a case of poisoning by carbolic acid. The stomach has been laid open along its lesser curvature : it is seen that the whole of the raucous membrane of the oesophagus and stomach is thickly covered by a firm encrustation of a dirty yellow colour : when fresh this was of an almost snowy white, and the contrast with the acutely inflamed mucous membrane, seen in a few places where the encrustation had been broken off, was most marked. 1892 Tlie patient was a young woman, aged 22, who died three hours after taking the poison : her lips and the middle of the mouth were charred by the acid. Drawings of the face and of the stomach, wlieu fresh, arc preserved in Series Ivii., Nos. 292 and 390. See Medical Posi-Mortcm Register, vol. xviii., p. 194. 1950a. The Stomach and Oesophagus of a cliild, aged two years and three months, on whom the operation of gastrostomy was performed on account of stricture caused by swallowing a solution of caustic potash. The nesopliagus presents an extreme contraction and thickening of its coats, commencing about four inches from its