INJURIES OF BONES (DISLOCATIONS, &C.). 57 lower end of the femur readily passes through the rent in the capsule. There is much extravasated blood in the tissues. 1888 From a man, aged 36, who falling a distance of fifty feet, sustained such severe injuries that he died five days later. See Male Surgical Register, vol. i. (1886), No. 3725. CONGENITAL DISLOCATION OF THE KNEE. 10511). The Femur and Tibia from a still-born child who had "back knee," and in whom hyper-extension of the joint was possible. 1889 Presented by A. G. Francis, Esq. COMPOUND DISLOCATION OF THE ASTRAGALUS. 1052a. The Bones of the Eight Tarsus, where, as the result of a severe injury, the Astragalus has been fractured at the neck, and the upper fragment has become dislocated on the inner side. Its upper articular surface protruded through the skin, and the cartilage has ulcerated away along its inner and outer margins. 1893 From a man, aged 34. At the time of the accident the spine was also fractured, from which he died at the end of two months. See Male Surgical Register, vol. ii. (1890), No. 8234, SUBASTRAGALOID DISLOCATION. 1053a. The Lower Ends of the Tibia and Fibula, with some of the bones of the tarsus. Nearly the whole of the ligaments uniting the astragalus to the rest of the bones of the foot have been torn through, and their remains hang in shreds from the bones they united. The astragnlus itself is slightly broken at the attach- ment of the anterior portion of the external lateral ligament, and a small piece of the scaphoid is torn off. The anterior ligament of the ankle-joint is also partially rent, and the ankle-joint opened. The astragalus maintains its position relative to the tibia and fibula. 1883 From a woman who fell out of a second-floor window, and died from other injuries. The whole foot was very loose, and could be displaced in almost any direction. COMPOUND DISLOCATION OF THE ANKLE-JOINT. 1053b. The Lower Part of the Right Leg, with a portion of the Foot. As the result of a severe accident there has been a compound dislocation of the ankle- joint, and the lower end of the tibia now projects from a ragged wound on the inner side ; the foot is displaced outwards nearly to a right angle. 1893 From a man, aged 32. Unsuccessful attempts were made to reduce the dislocation, and amputation was performed one week after the accident. See Male Surgical Register, vol. v. (1889), No. 1784. 1055a. A Dislocation of the Proximal Interphalangeal Joint of the Ring-Finger. There was shortening of the finger, and the flexor aspect of the proximal phalan- geal joint was convex towards its palmar surface. The longitudinal section shows that there is a dislocation of the middle phalanx on to the dorsum of the proximal. Accompanying this deformity are changes in the joint and an abundant deposit of urate of soda in the dorsal aponeurosis and fascia covering the proximal phalanx. The interphalangeal joint contained a little turbid fluid, and its cartilages have almost disappeared ; but where they are present they contain a quantity of urate of soda. The articular ends of the bones are slightly eburnated, and small osteophytes surround their articular margins. The anterior ligament is entirely destroyed, and the capsular and lateral are elongated. The dorsal aponeurosis