SERIES XVII. DISEASES AlfD IlfJUMES OF THE STOMACH. 1904a. A Stomach, the mucous surface of which is dotted with numerous punctiform hsemorrhages, 1882 From a man who died of cirrhosis of the liver, and had suffered from persistent vomiting. A drawing of the stomach, when fresh, is preserved in Series Ivii., No. 394. 1908a. Part of a Stomach with alteration at the pyloric extremity. The mucous membrane at the greater curvature presents several small depressions of irregular shape and size. Two of these, about the size of a split pea, are small ulcers. Their edges are abrupt, and not undermined ; there is no thickening of the surrounding tissues, and the peritoneum is normal. They do not appear to extend deeper than the submucous tissue, and in the recent state each contained a small clot of blood. They could not be proved to communicate with any branch of the gastric arteries. 1882 From a man, aged 55, who died on the seventeenth day after a burn of the hands and face. For the last two days of his life, he vomited large quantities of dark-coloured blood, and passed a considerable quantity of the same with his motions. A post-mortem examination showed recent peritonitis and pericarditis. The mucous membrane of the intestines was natural. See Kenton Ward Booh, p. 384, September 29th, 1881. 1908b. Portion of a Stomach in which there is an oval chronic ulcer with raised and thickened edges, about an inch long and rather more than half an inch broad. In the very centre of the floor the ulceration has nearly penetrated the viscus. The pylorus was distant four inches from the ulcer, which is on the posterior wall at the lesser curvature. The wall of the stomach in the vicinity is much thickened. 1883 19080. The Stomach of an infant. Numerous small but deep round or oval ulcers are seen on the posterior wall of the cardiac end near its lesser curvature. The position of some of the ulcers are marked by small blood-clots. 1886 A small male child, born after a natural but rather tedious labour, suddenly vomited blood twenty-one and a half hours after birth, and a few hours later melfena succeeded. Up to this time milk was taken and vitality seemed but slightly impaired. The discharge of blood continuing, much altered by admixture with meconium and mucus, the child rapidly sank, and died within twenty-four hours from the first appearance of blood. See Transactions of the Clinical Society (1886), vol. xix., p. 1. Presented by Dr. Sawtell. 1908d. A portion of the wall of the stomach, showing a thickening of its coats and at one spot a chronic ulcer. The ulcer is circular in form, measuring rather more than an inch in diameter, with distinct abrupt edges ; it is situated on the lesser curvature two inches from the pylorus. In its base are two perforations both closed with lymph. There are no old adhesions, nor is there any thickening at the base. 1886 See Medical Post-Mortem Booh, vol. x., p. 224. E