DISEASES AND INJUKIBS OP THE BKAIN AND ITS MEMBRANES. 207 On February 28th, ophthalmoscopic examination revealed extensive neuro-retinitis, with great swelling- and tortuosity of the vessels. There was considerable development of fibrous tissue along the course of the vessels. Both eyes were in a similar condition. On March 2nd, convulsions set in, and lasted for five minutes. Afterwards there was albuminuria, renewed vomiting, and finally death occurred from asthenia upon April 18th, 1885. . „ . , Microscopically, the tumour is a round-celled sarcoma. Sections are preserved in Series Iv., No. 438. „ . See Ti-ansactions of the Pathological Society, vol. xxxvii,, p. 66. Cf. No. 2468a m this Series. PSAMMOMA OF PONS VAROLII. 2501b. The Eight Half of the Pons Varolii and Cerebellum, which have been cut through longitudinally. The whole of the pons is much enlarged, measuring two inches from before backwards, and has, on section, an uniform white appearance ; it projects backwards into the fourth ventricle ; the anterior surface is irregular and slightly lobulated. Under the microscope its structure is that of a psammoma. See 3Ii'dical Post-Morte7n Begister, vol. xviii., p. 57. Microscopical sections are preserved in Series Iv., No. 451a. CARCINOMA OF CEREBELLUM. 2502b. A primary Carcinoma of the left lateral hemisphere of the cerebellum. The upper and anterior borders of the left lateral hemisphere are the seat of a new growth of a soft, gelatinous consistency. The right hemisphere is unaffected. 1886 M., set. 47. Admitted to Matthew Ward, April 18th, 1886 ; had enjoyed good health until he suddenly became unconscious. On admission there was loss of power on the right side, and later on convulsive movements occurred on this side. The temperature rose to 101.4° Fahr., and vomiting was constant. Death took place on the third day. The new growth is a carcinoma ; the cells are numerous and soft, for the most part of the squamous epithelial type, though here and there they become cylindrical. They are embedded in alveoli of connective tissue, which are slight in comparison with the number of cells, so that the tumour is allied to the encephaloid cancers. A section is preserved in Series Iv., No. 448. See Transactions of the Pathological Society, vol. xxxvii., p. 66. CASEATINa TUBERCLE IN THE CEREBELLUM. 2502c. A Cerebellum, which contains a caseating tubercular mass. The left cere- bellar hemisphere is much larger than the right, the enlargement being even and uniform. The tumour is not apparent externally, except at a point situated three- quarters of an inch from the postero-internal angle of the hemisphere, where there is a small nodule. The pia mater over this nodule is granular and opaque, and the cerebellar markings are less distinct than in other parts. A vertical section through the left hemisphere discloses a hard caseous mass, which occupies nearly the whole of the posterior two-thirds of the section. The tumour is irregularly oval in outline, and measures one inch and a quarter in its long diameter by an inch transversely. A zone of softened tissue, measuring nearly a quarter of an inch in thickness, surrounds the tumour, the softened area being of much greater extent in the neighbourhood of the anterior and upper border of the growth. The foramen of Magendie is patent. Microscopical exam- ination showed the tumour to be a mass of caseating tubercle. 1889 From a boy, aged 13, who complained for four months of pain in his head, which was not however, limited to any exact spot. The pain was continuous, but underwent paroxysmal exacerbations. His sight failed gradually, until, during the last three days of his life, he was totally blind. He had occasional attacks of rigidity, during which he lost consciousness for periods of five or six minutes. From time to time he vomited. For several weeks before his admission to the Hospital he staggered whilst walking. The patient had strumous disease of the distal end of the metacarpal bone of the left thumb. A section of the tumour is preserved in Series Iv., No. 431. See St, Bartliokmiew's Hosintal Bepoi-ts, vol. xxiii., pp. 186-188. Presented by E. Mansel Sympson, M.D.