66 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF MUSCLES, by two in its transverse. Its upper edge was about three inches below the knee. Puncture with a grooved needle let out four or five ounces of synovial fluid mixed with flakes of fibrin or lymph. The synovial membrane of the knee was much thickened ; the joint had fluid in it, and moved with some friction. By gentle continued pressure the cyst could be emptied of its contents more or less completely into the joint, but the fluid passed back again when the pressure was removed. Measurements—E. knee, fifteen inches ; L. knee, fourteen and a half inches ; R. calf at level of cyst, fifteen and a quarter inches ; L. calf at same level, fourteen inches. Presented by Stephen Paget, Esq. 1205e. The Left Knee-Joint from a case of acute arthritis following the formation of an Intermuscular Synovial Cyst. The under surface of the patella is carious, the cartilage upon it is ulcerating, and for tlie most part has disappeared. The condyles of the femur and the head of the tibia are in a similar condition. The large cyst at the hack of the joint contained a considerable quantity of blood-stained fluid. It communicated with the bursa between the inner head of the gastrocnemius and the semi-membranosus muscles, and so with the knee-joint. The shrivelled remains of an old cyst is seen running along the inner border of the gastrocnemius muscle for about an inch and a half. It communicates by a very narrow passage with the cyst at the back of the knee. The ligaments are all loosened, but they are not destroyed. The cartilages have almost entirely disappeared, and the synovial membrane is pulpy. There was no pus in the joint. 1887 From a man, aged 4.5, in whom the main symptom of the extensive joint-disease was intense pain on the slightest movement of, or jar to, the limb. Sixteen months before admission, the synovial cyst, whose shrivelled remains are seen in the specimen, was opened in the calf of the leg. The wound made, with antiseptic precautions, healed by first intention. The knee- joint first became painful six months after the cyst had been tapped. After the amputation the patient made a good recovery. See Male Surgical Register, vol. ii. (1886), No. 2279, and the Lancet, vol. ii. (1886), p. 970, A drawing of the limb is preserved in Series Ivii., No. 100. 1205f. The Lower Third of the Right Thigh and the upper portion of the Right Leg exhibiting a general enlargement of the bursa3 in the neighbourhood of the knee. An irregular cystic swelling, which contained serous fluid, in which floated a large number of melon-Feed bodies, lies upon the inner side of the joint, occupying in part the position of the bursa, between the semi-membranosus and semi-tendinosus tendons. The cyst is lined throughout by a thin membrane, which forms its wall. It is irregularly hour-glass in shape, the two swellings lying opposite the inner con- dyle of the femur, and the upper and inner part of the calf respectively, the con- striction between the two parts being apparently due to the passage across the cyst of the sartorius ancl gracilis tendons. Immediately beneath the inner hamstring tendons, the constricted portion of the cyst opens by a tortuous passage into a second dilatation, situated immediately beneath the popliteal vessels and nerve, in close contact with, but not opening into, the bursa, which lies under the inner head of tiie gastrocnemius. From this point the cyst can be traced beneath the gastrocnemius muscle, where it dilates into a terminal sac. The popliteus muscle is greatly stretched and thinned owing to the dilatation of the bursa beneath it. This dilated bursa is separated from the one previously described by the popliteus muscle, and it does not appear that the two in any way communicate. Neither of the cysts communicate with the knee-joint. The knee is almost typically affected with tubercular synovitis. The cartilages everywhere appear to be healthy, except for some slight roughening over the external condyle and the corresponding articular surface of the patella. There are neither osteophytes nor ecchondroses. The ligaments, Lowever, are much frayed and