SERIES XLI. DISEASES OP THE TJTERIM APPEIfDA&ES. HEMORRHAGE INTO THE FALLOPIAN TUBES AND UTERUS. 2934a. An Uterus and its Appendages. The uterine cavity contains a blood-clot, which extends along the Fallopian tubes, and on the right side projects beyond the fimbriated extremity. This projection of the clot is due to the narrowing of the calibre, owing to the action of the spirit, as it did not occur in the fresh specimen. The right ovary also contains a large blood-clot. 1886 From a single, nulliparous girl, aged 18 years, who died from uncontrollable epistaxis with, monorrhagia. No history of hajmophilia could be obtained. The source of the hemorrhage was not detected by the microscope. The epithelial lining of the Fallopian tubes appeared to be complete ; whilst the mucous membrane of the uterus showed only such a denudation of the epithelium as might have resulted from changes occurring after death. See Medical Post-Mortem Booh, vol. xii., p. 10. 2934b. The Uterus and Appendages, from a virgin who died after a severe uterine liajmorrhage. The specimen presents the same characters as those which are described in the preceding specimen, No. 2934a. A small triangular clot occupies the cavity of the uterus, and extends into both FaUopian tubes. 1889 From a domestic servant, aged 20, who had not suffered from any illness. The catamenia commenced at fourteen, and were normal until six months before her death, when they stopped. Eleven days before her death flooding commenced, and coatinued until the day before she died, when the discharge of blood was replaced by a clear discharge, which smelt badly. The girl was not a bleeder, nor, as far as could be made out, were any of her relations. Presented by W. C. Everley Taylor, Esq. 2937a. An Uterus, with the Fallopian tubes. The latter are distended with fluid, and form cysts about the size of a hen's egg. 1882 DOUBLE HYDRO-SALPINX. 293713. The Female Pelvic Organs, of which the Uterus and Ovaries are normal, while the Fallopian tubes have become uniformly and symmetrically distended. The extremities of the distended tubes lie in Douglas' pouch, where a thin band of peritoneal adhesion, passing from the uterus to the rectum, forms a septum between the tubes. Another band fixes the end of the right tube to the rectum. The end of the left tube is free. The abdominal orifices are closed, but the uterine ends appear patent. On careful examination, the lumen of the left tube was throughout visible to the naked eye. Under the microscope the folds of the lining mucous membrane were found to be partially destroyed. 1891 From a woman, aged 44, who died of heart disease, with dropsy, after rheumatic fever, which occurred seven years previously. She had had two children. There were no symptoms, during life, pointing to any pelvic mischief. The unusual condition was discovered accident- ally after death. See Faith Ward Booli, 1890, No. 229 ; also Medical Post-Mortem Register, vol. xvii.,p.307. A drawmg of the specimen and of the microscopical appearances of the left tube is pre- served in Series Ivii., No. 995.