DISEASES OF THE TESTICLE, ITS COVERINGS, AND OF THE SPERMATIC CORD 229 down into fin abscess in the globus minor. The testis is not enlarged, but it contains several nodules of recent tubercle. The vas deferens has been dissected out. It is blocked with caseous material, but it is not greatly thickened. 1888 2780b. The Left Testicle, from the same case as the preceding. The tunica vaginalis has been laid open to show tlie position of a hydrocele which existed during life. The epididymis is very greatly enlarged, but the testis is not affected, so far as can be seen without laying it open. The vas deferens is slightly thickened, and is blocked by caseating material. 1888 From a man, aged 41, a valet by occupation, who died of general tuberculosis. Ten months before his death he observed a swelling on the inner side of his right knee. The svvelling was said to have attained its maximum size in two or three days, and the patient was certain that it was not the result of an injury. The cyst was aspirated on two occasions, and synovial fluid, containing flakes of mucus, was removed. See Male Surgical Register, vol. ii. (1886), Nos. 449, 1353, 2021, and 2868. The knee is preserved in Series vi.. No. 1205f. 2780c. A Section through a Tubercular Testis, showing the epididymis filled with caseous material, which extends into a part of the testis itself. 1889 From a man, aged 32 years, who had long suffered from general tuberculosis. The rectum and bladder, with the urethra, are preserved in Series xix., No. 205(ja. See Mule Surgical Register, vol v. (1888), No. 714. 2780d. A Tubercular Testis, showing the whole epididymis infiltrated with caseous material, which is just beginning to degenerate. The substance of the testicle is also the seat of a tubercular deposit. 1889 From the same case as the preceding. CALCIFICATION OF THE EPIDIDYMIS. 2782a. A Testis and the Epididymis. The specimen has been cut through longitudinally from behind. The globus major of the epididymis is much enlarged, and has been converted into a hard calcareous mass, containing several small cysts. The body of the testis appears healthy, though the cord is somewhat thickened. The change in the epididymis is probably the result of old tubercular inflammation. 1893 See Medical Post-Morteni Register, vol. xvii., p. 350. 2795a. A Section through the Left Testis. The testis, as well as the epididymis, is greatly enlarged ; on cutting through the gland, it was found to be tough, fibrous, and cedematous. Numerous irregular white masses are seen to be embedded in the gland substance. The tunica vaginalis is irregularly adherent to the testis, and portions of it are distended by fluid forming small hydroceles. Microscopically, the growth is composed of round connective tissue cells, of equal size throughout. In many places masses of these cells are undergoing caseation, but it is uncertain whether the growth is a gumma or a round-celled sarcoma. 1889 From a man, aged 34, who denied that he ever had syphilis. The swelling commenced six months before the gland was removed. The testicle was painless ; it was uniformly enlarged ; there was no testicular sensation. The cord was much thickened, but there were no enlarged glands. Five days before the testicle was removed, a hydrocele was tapped. A section of the tumour is preserved in Series Iv., No. 546. See Male Surgical Register, vol., iii. (1888), No. 3033. 2796a. Sarcoma of Testis, with Hsematocele. . 1885 M., set. 39. Patient received a blow from a cricket-ball upon his testis four and a half years before his death. The testis swelled, but subsequently appeared to get well. Six months later the organ again swelled, and slowly increased in size, but without pain or any impairment of the general health. Three and a half years after the injury the testis began to grow rapidly. It was tapped, and some chocolate-coloured Ijlood was removed, leaving behind a solid mass. Four years after the injury castration was performed ; at the time of