URINARY CALCULI. 291 Presented by Thomas Smith, Esq. 46c. Portions of a Calculus, removed from the kidney by the operation of nephro- lithotomy. The fragments consist of uric acid encrusted with phosphates. 1886 The kidney is preserved in Series xxviii., No. 2392a. 52d.. Portions of a Branched Calculus, removed, with a kidney, by the operation of nephrectomy. It weighed 414 grains, and consists chiefly of phosphates. 1886 From Series xxviii., No. 2372d. 54a. A very large Calculus, removed from the bladder by the supra-pubic operation. The stone is irregularly oval. It measured eleven and a half inches in circumfer- ence in its long diameter and nine and a half inches in its short diameter. It weighed twenty-four and a half ounces immediately after removal. The lower por- tion of the stone on its under surface is tuberculated, perhaps from the flow of urine over it, whilst the upper part of the under surface was attached to the bladder wall by a calcareous deposit. An analysis made by Dr. Lapraik shows that it consists of a nucleus of oxalate of lime surrounded by uric acid and oxalate of lime, the outer layers consisting of earthy phosphates with a small quantity of calcium carbonate. 1886 From a soldier, aged 43, who had only suffered from active symptoms of bladder trouble for ten weeks before admission. For some time previously, however, he had noticed that when his bowels were constipated or when he had to undergo prolonged exertion, he passed water of a brighter colour than usual, with slight pain. He never had any hiematuria. Per rectum a large and hard tumour could be felt in the bladder. After the removal of the stone the patient made a good recovery, but died eighteen months later from suppression of urine : see below. See 3Iale Surgical Ttccjister, vol. ii. (1886), No. 1041, and also (1887) No. 2200 ; and the Lancet, vol. ii. (1886), p. 244. A cast of the stone is preserved in Series Ivi., No. 213a, and the bladder and kidneys are preserved in Series xxix., No. 2443b. 59a. Sections of a Calculus. The nucleus is composed of uric acid and urate of ammonia, surrounded by a thin layer of pliospbate of lime. The next layer, which comprises the bulk of the calculus, is composed of oxalate of lime, the whole being surrounded by a layer of the triple phosphate. J 883 79a. Section of a small Calculus, composed mainly of urate of ammonia, and sur- rounded by a thin layer of phosphate of lime. 1882 94a. Section of a Calculus. ISTucleus, urate of ammonia ; middle zone, uric acid ; coated by urate of ammonia and phosphate of lime. 1882 118a. A large Mulberry Calculus (oxalate of lime) weighing nearly two ounces. A small fragment is suspended above the stone. This was detached during the operation, and was passed per urethram the next day. 1891 It was removed by the supra-pubic operation from a patient, aged 19, who stated that he had been sounded ten years previously, and that a stone had been detected at that time. He made a good recovery. Presented by Stephen Paget, Esq. 135a. A large Mulberry Calculus, weighing 1 oz. 2 drs. 50 grs., removed from a boy, aged ten years. 1888 Presented by T. Odling, Esq. 140a. A Mass of Calculous Material, removed by lithotrity and subsequent washing out from the bladder of a lady. The mass consists of a large number of small round calculi, which vary in size from a small pea to the finest shot. The total weight is 1,500 grains, and the calculi consist of uric acid with a little oxalate of lime. 1889