SERIES IV. IITJIJUIES TO JOISTS (Dislocations, &c,). 1017a. Portion of a Clavicle with the upper piece of the Sternum and the First Rib. The sternal end of the clavicle is dislocated downwards and forwards, the rhomboid ligament is torn through, and the head of the bone protrudes between the sternal and clavicular attachments of the sterno-mastoid muscle. 1883 DISLOCATION OF THE STERNUM. 1018a. The Upper Part of the Sternum, showing a dislocation of the Manubrium upon the Gladiolus. 1887 From a man, aged 40, who was run over by a hansom cab. His ribs on the right side had been fractured from the third to the tenth inclusive, and on the left side from the third to the sixth. In connection with the fracture of the third left rib an abscess had formed, which ruptured into the pleura and set up pleurisy and broncho-pneumonia, of which the patient died. See Male Surgical Register, vol. iv. (1887), No. 288. 1019a. The Left Shoulder-Joint of a man, aged forty-one, who was killed by falling from a scaffold. The humerus at the time of the accident was dislocated, so that it lay beneath the coracoid process, whilst at the same time the great tuberosity was torn off. The biceps tendon is seen to be displaced from its groove and to be constricted at one point, owing to the pressure to which it has been subjected between the head and the margin of the glenoid cavity. None of the muscles around the joint appear to have been much torn. 1887 1019b. A Dissection of a recently-dislocated Shoulder-Joint, which was reduced during life. The dislocation did not answer exactly to the description of either the subcoracoid or subclavicular varieties, the head of the bone being more prominent than is usually the case with the one, and less so than is usually the case with the other. Reduction was effected with ease. The patient died twelve days later from broncho-pneumonia. At the autopsy the head of the humerus was foimd to be in its proper position and the capsule was quite intact. It was rather lax, and its attachment to the anterior border of the glenoid cavity was slightly raised, though it was continuous with the periosteum. The coracoid process is torn off" the scapula. The muscles surrounding the joint were intact with the exception of the subscapularis, which was lacerated. On the posterior part of the articular surface is a groove, which on redislocation of the joint fitted the lower part of the anterior margin of the anatomical neck of the humerus. The capsular ligament showed