373 CONGENITAL MALFORMATIONS. 79b. Casts of the two Hands of a girl, showing a congenital malformation of the left thumb. Springing from the middle of the metacarpal bone of the index finger is a rudimentary supernumerary digit, having a well-formed nail, and which is bent downwards to meet the tip of the thumb ; this is also deformed. These two digits could be separated and apposed to a slight extent. The right thumb is small and stunted. 1892 See Female Surgical Register, vol. ii. (1892), No. 710. 87a. Cast of both Hands and Arms, from a woman who was born without fingers on the left hand ; the thumb is represented by a papilla. The patient could knit and sew. 1884 88a. Cast of the Legs and portions of the Feet of a Child, in whom there was a congenital absence of the patella with genu valgum. 1887 See Male Surgical Register, vol. iii. (1887). No. 594. 88b. Cast of the Left Lower Limb of a man who had congenital absence of the femur. The leg and foot are well formed, and are connected with the trunk by means of a large rounded mass, composed very largely of muscles, by which the patient could fix the leg firmly on the pelvis. On deep palpation of this mass, the upper end of the tibia could be felt, and this seemed to be connected with the acetabulum by a short piece of bone two or three inches in length. 1890 From a man, aged 19. No other member of his family had any congenital deformity. He was a shoe-black by trade, and by means of a wooden peg, fifteen inches long, fixed to the sole of his boot, he could walk well. The left calf measured twelve inches, the right fourteen ; the left foot was nine inches long, the right ten and a half. He also had a congenital absence of two fingers of the right hand. See cast 70b. 88c. Cast of the Left Knee of a child, who had Congenital Absence of the patella. 1891 See Female Surgical Register, vol. iii. (1891), No. 2535*. 90a. Cast of the Left Lower Extremity of a youth, aged fifteen, who had congenital absence of the lower half of the tibia and fibula, and of the foot. The tibia and fibula gradually tapered off, at about six inches below the knee-joint, into a blunt cone, to the end of which, but separated from it by a deep constriction, was attached a growth somewhat resembling an undeveloped foot. This growth, however, con- tained no bones, and seemed to consist of fibrous tissue only, with perhaps some cartilage. On the outer side of the leg, just below the knee, is seen a rounded projection over the head of the fibula. This was soft, and seemed to consist of fat and fibrous tissue. 1890 The patient stated that no other member of his family suffered from congenital malforma- tions. By means of a leathern socket to which a wooden pin was attached, he could walk well. 93a. Cast of the Pelvis of a girl, aged five years, who had extroversion of the urinary bladder. There was no umbilicus, and the pubes were separated by a distance of about one inch and a quarter. The pelvis measures eighteen inches round the crests. 1888 A drawing is preserved in Series xxxviii., No. 1313. See Female Surgical Register, vol. iii. (1888), No. 1306. 97a- Cast of a Hand, showing congenital constriction of right thumb, probably dueito intra-uterine pressure, 1884