286 GENERAL PATHOLOGY. large cyst of a similar nature. The latter contained a clear yellowish fluid ; the former, sebaceous matter and fluid. 1883 3375b. A multilocular cystic Tumour of Finger. It consists of soft fibrous tissue containing one or two small cysts. 1885 J. W., set. 7. The tumour extended over the first phalanx and over half the second phalanx of the left ring-finger on its dorsal aspect. It measured an inch in length by half an inch across. It rose about three-quarters of an inch above the finger. It presented an ill-marked sense of fluctuation. It was painless, and had been noticed from birth. Presented by Stephen Paget, Esq. 3375c. A Congenital Barren Cyst or Hygroma, which was removed from the neck of a child. The walls are thin, and in parts but little thicker than tissue paper. 1886 Presented by C. Brook, Esq., Lincoln. 3375d.. A small Barren Cyst or Hygroma, removed from the palpebral conjunctiva of a child, aged one month. The cyst measures three-quarters of an inch in its long diameter. 1887 See 3Iale Ojjhthalmie Register for 1887, No. 350. DISEASES OF PARASITIC ORIGIN. 3382a. A Portion of the Foot of a native of India, affected with mycetoma, the so- called Madura foot. The foot is enlarged, and its normal outline is lost. Scattered over the dorsum, and less abundantly on the plantar surface, are rounded patches from which the cuticle has separated. Within these are the orifices of one or more fistulous tracks, some of which are filled up by the fungus which is said to cause the disease (the Chiomphe Carteri). On examining the section, the anterior por- tion of the foot is seen to be converted into a fleshy structure, having a fibro-cystic appearance. This appearance is produced by the presence of numerous small and large intercommunicating spaces in which the fungus is lodged. The metatarsal bones are unrecognisable. The os calcis, astragalus, and scaphoid are almost un- affected ; the anterior portion of the cuneiform bone shows the absorptive process by which the bones are destroyed. Sparsely scattered over the section are black dots about the size of a pin's head, which are small masses of the fungus. 1884 3382b. The foot of a native of India, showing the disease called mycetoma—Madura, or fungus foot. The foot is greatly enlarged. The swelling involves chiefly the sole, which is convex in outHne. Scattered over the foot, most thickly on the sole, are loose elevated masses of cuticle. The orifices of fistulous tracks exist beneath, or are seen in the centre of, some of these elevations. 1884 3382c. Some of the Bones of Foot shown in the preceding specimen. 1884 MADURA DISEASE OF HAND. 3382d. The Radial Half of a Eight Hand, divided by a longitudinal incision. The whole hand is much increased in size, and swollen. The cut surface shows that the bones of the carpus are the most affected. These are enlarged, and have a spongy appearance, with here and there a few small sinuous cavities. The tendons and muscles are affected in the same way. On the skin are a few small superficial ulcers, which communicate by means of sinuses with small cavities in the subcutaneous tissue. The cavities, when examined after a fresh section, are found to contain numerous small pale yellow roe-like masses, which are composed of pus and the special fungus. The fungus closely resembles that of Actinomyces, if the two are not identical. 189.3 The patient was a middle-aged native of Madura, a cultivator by occupation; he had suffered from the disease in one hand and one foot for many years ; the hand was removed by amputation. Presented by A. A. Kanthack, M.D.