PERICAKDIUM AND OF THE HEART. 71 1248b. The Heart from a case in which the right ventricle ruptured spontaneously. About half-way down the anterior surface of the right ventricle is a discoloured patch of muscular tissue perforated by two small apertures. In the recent condi- tion one of these apertures was filled with a small piece of soft blood-clot. 1887 From a woman, aged 71, who was admitted into the Hospital with diabetes. At the autopsy the pericardium was entire, but was tilled with fluid blood. The aorta was highly atheromatous. The skull-cap was greatly thickened. The calvaria is preserved in Series i.. No. 296a. See Medical Post-Mortem Book, vol. xi., p. 173. 1259a. A Heart, showing extreme dilatation of both auricles. The mitral valve is thickened and indurated, and the auriculo-ventricular orifice will scarcely admit the tip of the little finger. A similar condition exists on the right side, but the contrac- tion is not so great, and the tricuspid orifice will admit the index finger. 1882 The margins of the orifices on both sides are extremely rigid and undilatable. ANEURYSM OF LEFT VENTRICLE. 1261a. A Heart in which a large Sacculated Aneurysm has formed in connection with the outer side of the Left Ventricle. The sac has been laid open from behind ; it lies directly to the outer side of the posterior musculus papillaris. At first sight the walls of the sac appear of about the normal thickness of the left ventricular wall. Careful inspection, however, shows that they are largely composed of layers of fibrin. The outer surface of the heart, particularly in the neighbourhood of the aneurysm, is covered by a shaggy coat of coagulated fibrin, due to pericarditis. From a man, aged 35, who was brought to the Hospital dead. 1893 See Medical Post-Mortem Registei-, vol. xvii., p. 308. 1263a. An Adult Heart with Multiple Aneurysms. The heart weighs sixteen ounces. The pericardium is adherent to the base ; the foramen ovale is patent ; the mitral valve is diseased ; two small aneurysms spring from the left ventricle, and one opens into the left auricle. 1886 From a woman, aged 44, who died with anasarca and ascites. She had rheumatic fever sixteen years previously. See Transactions of the Pathological Society, vol. xxxvii., p. 147. 1266a. Portion of the Apex of a Heart, showing an aneurysmal dilatation at the apex of the right ventricle. 1881 1268a. Portions of a Heart, showing an aneurysm of the sinus of Valsalva, The orifice of the aneurysm is behind the middle aortic valve, at the lowest part of the sinus of Valsalva, and is one-third of an inch in diameter. The edge of the orifice is thick and rounded, with outgrowths upon it. The aortic valves are all fringed with soft ragged growths, and are partly destroyed. The aneurysm projects as a bilobed tumour, about a quarter of an inch broad, into the right auricle on the upper surface of the tricuspid valve. BetAveen its orifice in the sinus of Valsalva and the tricuspid valve, the aneurysm extends downwards between the layers of the upper part of the undefended space, and into the substance of the tricuspid valve. The interior of the aneurysmal sac is roughened and partly filled with fibrin. 1888 From a man, aged 21, who died after six attacks of rheumatic fever. In addition to the aneurysm there was well-marked mitral stenosis and a slight degree of tricuspid stenosis. The left ventricle was much dilated, and is slightly hypertrophied. The heart weighed fifteen and a half ounces. See Transactions of the Pathological Society, vol. xxxviii., p. 100. 1271a. Heart from a woman who died of pysemia, with plugging of the iliac veins, four weeks after parturition. In the right ventricle are several large blood-clots adherent to the cardiac walls, and partially decolourised. 1884 The uterus is preserved in Series xlvi., No. 3094a, and one of the iliac veins in Series ix.j No, 1578a,