M 2 SERIES XXI. DISEASES AND INJURIES OP THE IITEE,. PERIHEPATITIS. 2193a- The specimen consists of the Left Lobe and part of the Eight Lobe of the Liver, together with the suspensory ligament, and that portion of the diaphragm to which the Hgament is attached. The peritoneal surface of all these is thickened by a deposit of " false membrane," due to former general peritonitis. This now forms a definite and easily detachable covering (see next specimen, No. 2193b) of uniform thickness with the exception of small circular depressions, which extend nearly, but not quite, through to the liver substance beneath. The surface of the liver, which does not show the depressions named, is slightly roughened, 1893 See Medical Post-Mortein Register, vol. xviii., p. 359. 2193b- A Portion of the " false membrane " covering the Liver as described in the preceding specimen (No. 2193a), to which refer. The depressions, which are distinctly cup-shaped, though extending deeply into, do not perforate the "membrane." 1893 2194a- Section of a left Lobe of a greatly enlarged Liver, affected with amyloid degeneration. 1881 TUBERCLE. 2194b. A section of the left Lobe of a Liver affected with Tubercle. The cut surfaces show several deposits of caseous material, the largest of which is two inches in its longest diameter, and projects prominently from the superior surface of the organ. The deposits have, on section, a honeycomb appearance, from breaking down of the tubercular material at several small points. In histological structure the deposits presented the ordinary character of tubercle. Some small grey noduleS were scattered beneath the mucous membrane of the bladder, and were found, on microscopic examination, to be miliary tubercles. 1882 From a lad, who died with amyloid degeneration of the abdominal viscera. He had previously suifered from symptoms of tubercular disease of the genito-urinary organs. There was no evidence of syphilis. Cicatricial contractions of the upper and lower ends of the right ureter from old ulceration were found, and hydronephrosis of the corresponding kidney, but there was no tubercular ulceration in progress. Microscopic sections are preserved in Series Iv., No. 319. Presented by F. S. Eve, Esq. 2194c. Section of a Liver which has undergone lardaceous or amyloid degeneration. The degenerate tissue is darkly stained with iodine. 1887 2194d.- A Portion of a Liver which has been very greatly enlarged, as a result of amyloid degeneration. It weighed ten pounds, nine ounces, and its surface was scarred, puckered, and contracted. Its section is firm, and the glandular substance is seen