DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE LARYNX AND TRACHEA. 98 FOREIGN BODIES. 1662a. A Glass Bead which was swallowed by a child and passed down the larynx and trachea. Two days later it was coughed up through a tracheotomy wound. 1891 The patient, a little girl, aged seven, was admitted on December 6th, 1890, with the history that she had swallowed a bead, and that it "had gone the wrong way." On auscultation, the bead could be heard passing up and down the trachea, between the bifurcation and the larynx, with each inspiration, and tracheotomy was decided on at once. Just before the operation was commenced it was found that the movements of the bead could no longer be heard ; it was supposed that it had passed into the pharynx and had been swallowed, and the operation was postponed. On the 8th it was found that no breathing sounds could be heard in the right lung, and that the heart had become displaced towards the right. Tracheotomy was performed, and though the child was inverted while the wound was held open, and feathers were passed down the trachea, the bead did not appear, and the child was put to l)ed. During the night she had a violent attack of dyspncea, the tube was withtlrawn, and the bead was at once coughed up. She made a good recovery. See Female Surgical Registei-, vol. i. (1890), No. 2548. 1662b. A Pebble which was swallowed and passed through the larynx into the trachea of a man. After remaining in the air-passages for forty-five hours it was expelled by coughing. 1892 For notes of the case see Lancet (1863), vol. ii., p. 277. Presented by Henry Power, Esq. 1663a. Tongue and Larynx, showing the common situation in which the throat is cut. 1885 From an old woman who cut her throat with a razor ; the wound did not at first extend into the pharynx, though it did so in the course of a week by a process of ulceration. Death resulted from dysphagia. Presented by H. Lewis Jones, M.D. 166313. Portion of the Tongue and Larynx, showing a self-inflicted jagged wound which has con)pletely destroyed the crico-thyroid membrane and the anterior portion of the cricoid cartilage. The thyroid cartilage has numerous gashes in it, wliich in some cases extend as far as the right lobe of the thyroid gland. The trachea has been divided between its second and third rings. 1887 From a man, aged 29.