5 DISEASES OF BONES. cavities may be seen in other parts. The compact tissue of the upper articular surface is mucli increased, and the normal arrangement of its cancellous tissue destroyed, 1883 (In Case E.) The patient was a cabman, aged 64, who died in the Hospital from a fractured skull. For the last ten years of his life the right femur had become gradually bent, so that, at the time of his death, the right lower extremity was two and a half inches shorter than the left. The progress of the deformity was not marked by any pain. The patient had suffered occasionally from gout, but was otherwise healthy. All the remaining bones were normal. The other half of the specimen is in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons.—See account of case by Mr. Bowlby in The Transactions of the Patliological Society, vol. xxxiv., p. 193. 74b. Section of a Femur. It is very little greater in circumference than natural, but is bowed forwards in one uniform curve, fairly equally distributed over the whole length of the shaft, so that when the bone rests by its two extremities on an even surface, the under portion of the centre of the femur is raised two and three-quarter inches above the subjacent plane. There is absolutely no external curvature. The surface is slightly roughened by the deposit of thin irregularly placed laminae and spicula of new bone, widely diffused over the entire shaft. The head and tro- chanters are natural, the condyles are flattened, and around their margins and on the surface of the external one are nodular outgrowths of new bone. A longitudinal section shows considerable thinning of the compact osseous tissue, a condition which is most marked in the lower third of the bone. Immediately above the condyles is a small cavity, containing masses of a soft material exactly resembling cheese, and above this the spaces of the cancellous tissue are much widened and filled with a substance having the consistence of soft mortar. At first sight the medullary canal appears filled up with sclerosed bone, but a closer investigation shows that this is only the case to a very limited extent, and that the material that mainly blocks ifc up readily receives the impress of the nail, and is apparently of the same nature as the mortar-like substance already mentioned. An inch below the lesser trochanter is a cavity similar to but smaller than that at the lower end of the bone, not bounded by any distinct walls and containing a similar cheesy material. 1883 (In Case E.) From a man, aged 64, who died of morbus cordis. When ten years old he met with an injury to his leg; this was followed by extensive isuppuration, and for some years he was unable to get about. His knee became stiff and his thigh bent, so that in a few years the latter assumed its present shape. There had been no increase of the deformity for the last forty years of his life. The limbs were of equal length, and three adherent scars marked the site of the former suppuration.—The specimen is described by Mr. Bowlby in The Transactions uf the Patholugical Society, vol. xxxiv., p. 192. 74c. A well-developed Adult Femur, showing the deformity produced by Osteitis Deformans. The shaft of the bone has a marked antero-posterior curvature, and is flattened from before backwards. The lower half of the bone is more affected than the upper portion. The shaft is very considerably thickened, its circumference two inches above the adductor tubercle measuring no less than six inches, instead of the four or four and a half inches which a normal Femur should measure at the same point. The surface of the bone presents the roughened tubercular appearance and the enlarged haversian canals which are familiar in cases of chronic periostitis. On section, the increase of girth is seen to be due to a deposit of dense ivory-like bone, which is more compact at the periphery than towards the centre. The bone nearest to the medullary canal is porous, as if it were undergoing a process of rare- faction ; whilst the medullary canal itself is increased in size and its cancellous tissue is much coarser than usual. 1886 (In case E.)