DISPLACEMENTS OF THE INTESTINAL CANAL AND OMENTUM. 155 the end of it being gangrenous where it protrudes into the csecum. The sheath of small intestine which contains the intussuscepted portion has ulcerated in two places in a line transverse to the long axis of the gut. 1888 From a girl, aged nine, who seven days before her death was suddenly seized with great abdominal pain and vomiting. Enterotomy was performed through an abdominal incision, the intestine being opened four inches above the site of the intussusception ; but the patient died two days after the operation. At the autopsy it was found that there had been no fascal extravasation, and that neither the constricting portion of the intestine nor the sheath were in a state of tension. See Female Surgical Register, vol. iv. (1885), No. 1975. DOUBLE INTUSSUSCEPTION. 2183a. A CfECum, with a portion of the Ascending Colon, into which an intussusception of the Ileum has occurred. Both the colon and the ileum have been laid open longitudinally, disclosing in the centre of the latter a Meckel's diverticulum, which has itself been invaginated into the ileum. The diverticulum has been incised ; the mucous membrane lining both it and the intussuscepted part of the ileum is dark and discoloured from the acute inflammation which the tissues had undergone, producing a gangrenous condition with sloughing of the end of the intussusceptum. A large black tube has been passed from the opening made in the ileum, and protrudes at the proximal end of the same, 1892 The patient was a labourer, aged 42, whose history was as follows :—On April 27th, 1891, he was seized with severe abdominal pain, accompanied by vomiting. He was also consti- pated. Under treatment he recovered in a week, and resumed work. On iVIay 18th, the symptoms returned, but were not relieved by treatment. The vomiting soon ceased. Peri- tonitis set in, and he died on June 9th, about a fortnight after the onset of symptoms. Presented by James Adams, M.D. 2185a. A Section through the Ileo-Csecal Valve of a female child, aged seven months. The lower portion of the ileum has undergone intussusception into the colon. The invaginated portion of the gut is greatly thickened as a result of inflammation, and its terminal portion is becoming gangrenous. 1889 See Female Surgical Register, vol. i. (1888), No. 2161. A section of the thickened intestine is preserved in Series Iv., No. 290. INTUSSUSCEPTION OF THE RECTUM IN AN ADULT. 2188a. The Large Intestine is invaginated for about three inches ; it is firmly bound down by a contracted mesenteric attachment ; the intussuscepted portion cannot be drawn out; it therefore appears to have been of long standing. Above the intussuscepted portion is a small projection which appears to be the root of a small polypus. 1885 M., jet. 37. Labourer, always in good health. He had an attack of diarrhoea and tenesmus, but subsequently he was found to be suffering from an intussusception, the invaginated portion being within easy reach of the finger after the hand had been introduced into the rectum. On the ninth day vomiting and hiccough commenced ; the abdomen was tympanitic. Lumbar colotomy was performed, but the patient died. Presented by Dr. Lanchester. INTUSSUSCEPTION OF THE SIGMOID FLEXURE INTO THE RECTUM IN AN ADULT. 2188b. The specimen consists of part of the Descending Colon and Sigmoid Flexure which have been invaginated into the rectum ; a piece of the latter has been removed, showing the lower orifice of the invaginated intestine, into which a piece of black catheter has been passed ; the coats of the bowel in the neighbourhood of the intussusception are thickened, and there is a coating of coagulated lymph between the layers of contiguous mucous membrane : there is also some distension of the colon above the constriction. 1891 The patient was a woman, about 40 years of age, who died in the Surrey County Lunatic Asylum. She suffered from attacks of obstruction, sometimes acco mpanied with fsecal