PLEURA, BRONCHIAL TUBES, AND LUNGS. 103 1724b. Lung showing tubercular cavities in its upper lobe. 1885 See Male Surgical Register, vol. iv. (1884), No. (UT. 1724c. The Right Lung of a child, aged six months. In the middle lobe is a cavity as large as a marble, which communicates with the [ileura by an aperture through which a piece of red glass rod has been passed. The cavity is divided by a septum, wliich is formed by an occluded artery. Tlie lung is solidified by grey tubercle ; the bronchial glands were enlarged, and contained tubercle bacilli, and there were tubercular deposits in the spleen. 1888 The child was admitted into the Hospital on account of its marasmic condition ; a sudden attack of dyspnoea terminated its existence. The mother was said to be phthisical, but there was no other phthisical history. See J/edical Po.it-Mortem Bool,-, vol. xiv., p. 185. BOVINE TUBERCULOSIS. 1727a. A section of the lower Lobe of the Lung of a nylghau affected with bovine tuberculosis. The lung is completely solidified, and its alveoli are filled with caseous material which has become calcareous in the centre. The other portions of the lung are in the museum of the Royal College of Surgeons. 1882 From the Zoological Society's Gardens. Presented by F, S, Eve, Esq. 1727b. A portion of the Diaphragm of the same nylghau. Its upper surface is studded with firm, nodular outgrowths of various size. 1882 From the Gardens of the Zoological Society. Presented by F. S. Eve, Esq. SARCOMA. 1728a. A portion of the Right Lung infiltrated with sarcoma, from a case of primary sarcoma of the lung. The surface of the lung is covered with soft lymph. It was collapsed against the root. From the root a new growth penetrates tbo lung. The growth begins around and between the bronchi, and extends for two inches into the walls of both bronchi, but without penetrating into their interior. In the lower part of the lung is a cavity filled with coagulated flocculent lymph. The microscopical characters of the growth are those of a round-celled sarcoma. 1886 A man, aged 52, a year before admission to the Hospital, began to complain of weakness and cough, with pain in the chest and occasional haemoptysis. Five weeks before admission he became hemiplegic. A week before his death he had a large pleural effusion on his right side. At the autopsy several secondary growths of sarcoma were found in various parts of the brain. See Post-Mortem Book, vol, xi., p. 261, and Transactions of the Pathological Society, vol. xxxvi., pp. 120-122. 1728b. A Section through a Left Lung infiltrated with a round-celled sarcoma. The lung-tissue proper is almost entirely replaced, except at its anterior surface, by the new growth, which has a yellow mottled appearance and is of a firm consistence. The growth is most dense along the parietal pleura. The pleural cavity was entirely obliterated. Microscopically the growth is a round-celled sarcoma. 1889 From a waiter, aged 18 years, who had symptoms of pulmonary phthisis at the left apex. An attack of hemoptysis first drew attention to the disease, when the patient gave a history of two attacks of pleurisy on the left side. The signs of a cavity at the left apex developed, and subsequently disappeared, the only physical sign which remained being an absolutely dull note on percussing over the left side of the chest in front. A large new growth springing from the right iliac bone developed itself, and gave rise to acute pain in the right leg, which prevented the use of the limb. Many nodules of new growth subsequently developed in other parts of the body. The right supra-renal capsule from the same case is preserved in Series xxvii.. No. 2330b. Presented by Arthur Davies, M.D. *