172 DISEASES OP THE THYKOID GLAND. See Female Surgical Register, vol. v. (1892), No. 537. displaced outwards and forwards, and is spread out over the surface of the tumour in the usual manner. A long, narrow pyramid of gland tissue, extending upwards to the hyoid bone, is connected with the left lobe of the gland. 1887 2314e. Cystic Disease involving the whole of the thyroid gland. The right lobe has been laid open, showing numerous cysts in its interior. Some of the cysts are filled with the usual colloid material, others are more or less calcified. On the left side the outward displacement of the carotid vessels may be noticed. The relations which the recurrent nerves usually bear to a goitre are also well seen. They lie in the grooves between the thyroid and the oesophagus. 1887 2314f. Portions of cyst-wall and partially calcified colloid contents of a large Cystic Goitre removed by operation. 1887 The cyst was globular, measuring about five inches in diameter ; the cyst-wall was thick and tough ; the interior was completely filled with the solid material shown in this specimen. It consists of the ordinary mucoid contents of a thyroid cyst solidified together with the remains of blood-clot. Much calcification has occurred in it. Removed by Dr. Comte, at Geneva, July 30th, 1886. Photographs of the patient before and after operation are preserved in Series Ivii., No. 546. 2314g'. Part of a Goitre, Trachea, and (Esophagus, cut horizontally, to show the relations which they bear to each otlier. The left lobe of the gland is larger than the right ; it has caused slight flattening of the left side of the trachea. The position of the inferior thyroid vessels and the recurrent laryngeal nerves may also be seen. The internal structure of an ordinary cystic goitre is well illustrated by the specimen. 1887 This and the five preceding specimens were presented by James Berry, Esq. 2314h.. A large Cystic Goitre, which was removed after the death of the patient. The cyst is confined to the right lobe. It is globular in shape and measures three inches in diameter ; it has a thick and tough wall, and contains a considerable quantity of solid material, which has shrunk from the action of the spirit. The contents are the ordinary mucoid contents of a thyroid cyst with the remains of blood-clot. 1889 From a middle-aged woman, who died after amputation of the thigh for a myeloid sarcoma of the knee. See Female Surgical Eegister, vol. v. (1889), No. 958. 2314i. An Adenoma of the Thyroid Gland, removed by operation. The tumour was nearly spherical in shape, measuring rather over two inches in its longest diameter ; the section shows that it has a well-marked capsule, and, with the exception of an irregular cavity in tlie centre, it consists uniformly of gland tissue, with no tendency to the formation of separate cysts. 1891 The patient was a girl, aged 10. See Female Surgical Register, vol. ii. (1890), No. 388. A microscopical section is preserved in Series Iv., No. 353b. THYROID CYST. 2314k. One-half of a Cyst removed by operation from the Thyroid Gland. The cut surface shows that tliere is a well-marked fibrous capsule, inside of which is a layer of gland-substance, varying from one-eighth to half an inch in thickness ; there is a central cavity one inch and a half in diameter, which contained fluid. The whole cyst measures two and a half inches in diameter. 1893