DISEASES OF JOINTS. 38 712a. Pedunculated Growth from a Synovial Fringe of the Knee-Joint. 1882 From a girl, aged 18, who suffered from the ordinary symptoms of '• loose cartilage." A small body could be felt on the outer side of the joint; on exposing it the above specimen was discovered and removed by cutting through the peduncle. A microscopic examination showed that the growth consisted of condensed synovial membrane, not containing any cartilage cells. Sections are preserved in Series Iv., No. 88. 712b. A Pedunculated Growth removed from the Knee-Joint. It is composed of thickened synovial membrane. 1883 712c. Loose Bodies removed from the Knee-Joint. The bodies are synovial fringes thickened with caseating inflammatory material. 1885 See Male Surgical Bcffistei; vol. iii. (1885), No. 3544. 712d. Five Loose Bodies from a Knee-Joint, together with part of the Condyles of the Femur, to which two similar Bodies are still attached. When the incision was made into the joint for its excision on account of long-standing tubercular disease, these five bodies were found loose in its cavity. While fresh they looked like and had the consistence of fat: after hardening in spirit one of them was incised, and is now seen to consist of an outer layer or shell enclosing a nucleus of different apjiearance. The microscope showed the nucleus to consist of partly-degenerated hypertrophied synovial fringes containing tubercular " giant cells," the outer layer being granular, and doubtless formed of coagulated lymph. In support of this view is the fact that two similar bodies are still attached to the femur. 1891 The patient was a girl, aged 10, who had suffered from tubercular disease of the left knee- joint for three years, for the cure of which excision was performed. See Female Surgical Rcfjister, vol. i. (1890), No. 2104. 713a. A Loose Cartilage from the Knee-Joint. It is composed of fibrous tissue and cartilage, the latter being in some places calcified. It was attached to the synovial membrane by a slender pedicle. 1883 Microscopic sections are preserved in Series Iv., No. 76. 714a. A Loose Body removed from the Knee-Joint. It is composed of a loose fibrous tissue, and was attached to the synovial membrane. 1883 714b. A Small Loose Body, composed of hard bone covered by a layer of Cartilage, removed from the Elbow-Joint of a young man. It was attached to the synovial membrane. 1883 716a. A flattened, soft, pedunculated mass of Synovial Membrane, removed by operation from the Knee-Joint of a patient wbo had suffered from symptoms of " Loose Cartilage " for several years. 1883 A microscopic examination showed that the synovial membrane had previously been inflamed, and that the inflammatory products had in some parts undergone a caseous degeneration and in others become organised into a loose fibrous tissue. Microscopical sections are preserved in Series Iv., No. 82. 716b. Foreign Body removed from the Knee-Joint of Mr. C. O'B. Harding. It was attached by a very slight pedicle to the synovial membrane. It is about the size of an almond, and consists of organised bloot-clot enclosed in a synovial tuft. 1884 Presented by C. O'B. Harding, Esq. 717a. A small Cartilaginous Body which lay free in the Elbow-Joint. It is oval in shape, measuring three-quarters of an inch in length, and half an inch in diameter. It is gritty in parts, owing to the deposition of lime-salts. 1888 From a boy, aged 15, who had symptoms of a loose body in lus elbow-joint for eleven months. See 3[ale Surgical Begistei; vol. iii. (1887), No. 3021.