154 HERNIA, OR PROTRUSIONS, AND OTHER From a woman, aged 63, who was suddenly attacked with symptoms of acute intestinal obstruction. On the following day she passed a small motion with a little slime and blnod. Two days later she had f seal vomiting. Eight days after the onset of the symptoms right lumbar colotomy was performed, and she died three days afterwards. See The British Medical Journal, vol i. (1885), p. 1195, A drawing is preserved in Series Ivii., No. 460. VOLVULUS. 2177a- A portion of the descending Colon, showing a well-marked constriction produced by the twisting of two portions of large intestine around each other, so that a loop was strangulated. 1881 From an old man, who died with symptoms of acute intestinal obstruction. VOLVULUS OF THE C^CUM. 2177b. The Csecum, the lowest part of the Ileum, and the beginning of the Colon, are involved in a volvulus, which has resulted in the intestine being twisted three times on its transverse axis from right to left. The ceecum is attached by sutures to the abdominal wall, a portion of which is left in the preparation ; it is gangrenous in patches, and in one place has completely ulcerated, so as to lead to a perforation of the intestine. No fajces have escaped, howevei', owing to the surrounding adhesions. On tracing the gut backwards, it is seen that the colon beyond the splenic flexure, instead of passing across the abdomen to form the transverse arch, descends vertically to the left iliac fossa. Prom this point it returns to the lower border of the stomach, forming a U-shaped bend. It then turns to the right, and having reached the median line of the abdomen, again runs downwards to end in the ca3cum, which was situated over the last lumbar vertebra, almost in the middle line. {Cf. 2176a.) 1888 From a man, aged 63, who was seized suddenly with severe abdominal pain and vomitintr. His bowels, which had been regular up to the time of the seizure, became obstinately coutincd. On his admission to the Hospital, two days later, nothing could be found to account for the pain, but there was a slight fulness and tenderness in the right iliac region. Stercoraccous vomiting set in eight days after the initial symptoms had appeared, and the abdomen was opened in the middle line, and a portion of inflamed and distended ciBCum was secured by sutures to the abdominal wall. The patient died on the following day. See Male Simjical Register, vol. iii. (1887), No. 495, and Transactions of the Clinical Society, vol. xxi., p. 139. MULTIPLE INTUSSUSCEPTION. 2181a. The Ascending, Transverse, and a portion of the Descending Colon of a child. At tlie ileo-cajcal valve tlie small intestine has become invaginated into the colon for a distance of about two inches, carrying with it a portion of the caput coli and a part of the vermiform appendix. The invagination is two inches in length. A trap-door has been cut in the colon to show the flakes of lymph upon the intussus- cepted portion of intestine. In the transverse portion of the colon is a second intussusception, the distal portion of the large intestine being ensheathed in the proximal part. It is therefore an example of the extremely rare form of intus- susception known as tlie "ascending" variety. As in the previous case,a trap-door has been cut in the wall of the intestine to show the presence of recently effused lymjih. From the presence of the lymph it may be argued that both intussusceptions occurred during life. 1886 From a male child, aged five months, who presented the ordinary symptoms of acute intestinal obstruction. Injections of milk and water and of air were tried ineffectually. The infant died five days after the onset of the symptoms. A drawing is preserved in Series Ivii., No. 475. A full account of the specimen will be found in the Pathological Societg's Transactions, vol. xxxvii., p. 240. Presented by John Emmerson, M.D. 2182a. Tlie Ilco-Ctecal Valve, with a portion of Small Intestine, showing an intussusception. About six inches of the small intestine have become intussuscepted,