242 DISEASES OP THE OVARIES. 2915b. A portion of a Dermoid Cyst of the left Ovary, measuring five inches in its long diameter. It has heen laid open, and the semi-fluid contents have been re- moved. Attached to the anterior wall of the interior of the sac are three smaller cysts, and lying among them are two well-formed teeth. The distal end of the Fallopian tube is attached to the upper part of the cyst. Several of the fimbriae have small cysts at their free extremities. 1892 From a young lady, aged 18. Abdominal enlargement had existed for three years, increas- ing rapidly dining the three moTiths previous to operation. The right ovary, which also con- tained a dermoid cyst, was removed with a large parovarian cyst at the same operation. It is preserved in vSeries xlii,, No. 2942c. Presented by F. H. Champneys, M.D., and W, A. Meredith, Esq. 2915c. An Uterus, with its Appendages. On each side the substance of the uterus is replaced by a cyst measuring almost three inches in diameter. Portions of the cyst-walls have been cut away, and the contents, which consisted of thick sebaceous material mixed with hairs, have been removed. Some of this material, with a few hairs, still remains adherent to the interior of the cysts. 1892 2916a. The Pelvic Organs of a woman, aged thirty-three years, who died from retention of urine, resulting from the impaction of a dermoid ovarian cyst in the pelvis. A sagittal section of the whole mass shows a small contracted bladder ; the uterus is drawn upwards, and is displaced to the left of the median line by a cystic tumour, which is closely adherent to its posterior surface. A secondary cyst in the upper part of its anterior wall is filled with fat and hair. From the position of the tumour, it was presumably developed from the right ovary. The left Fallopian tube is greatly distended. The uterus measures five inches from the external os to the fundus. 1889 From an unmarried domestic servant, who woke up one morning to find that she was unable to pass her water. Three days later the retention was followed by incontinence of urine. The abdomen, when the patient was first seen, had the appearance of a seven months' pregnancy. A catheter was passed, and after the urine had been drawn ofP, a soft, rounded ■ swelling was found to occupy the whole of the hypogastric region. Per vaginam the posterior vaginal wall was found to be bulged forwards by an elastic swelling which fully distended Douglas' pouch. The incontinence was followed by polyuria, the patient passing from seventy to ninety ounces of urine daily. Cystitis set in, and the mucous membrane of the bladder sloughed and was discharged. The patient eventually died of asthenia a month after the occurrence of the retention. Presented by Dr. C. St. John Wright and Mr. H. E. Whitehead. 2917a. An Ovarian Cyst, with a plate of bone embedded in its wall, having some- what the shape of one side of a lower jaw, and from which a tooth, resembling an incisor, projects. Two tufts of black hair spring from the inner surface of the cyst wall, near the plate of bone. 1881 Presented by Mr. Johnson. 2920a. A Multilocular Dermoid Cyst of the Ovary. Each loculus contains dermoid elements. 1887 Presented by W. A. Meredith, Esq. 2922a» A Left Ovary and Fallopian Tube, to which an enlarged Hydatid of Morgagni is attached. In the broad ligament is a cyst the size of a walnut, which contained a mass of sebaceous material. 1883 2923a. A similar specimen of a Parovarian Cyst. The cyst is of considerable size ; the outline of its wall can be easily traced, quite distinct from the ovary and Fallopian tube. 1882 Presented by J. Matthews Duncan, M.D., F.K.S. 2923b. Some of the fluid from the preceding specimen. It is perfectly clear and translucent, and contains no albumen, 1882