296 URINARY CALCULI. (ss.) A Flattened Oval Calculus, weighing 11.3 grammes. ERmoved by lateral lithotomy from a man, aged 63 years, on April 16th, 1875. The patient was discharged cured on May 20th. {tt.) A Small Smooth Stone, weighing 3.B grammes. Kemoved from a patient, three and a half years of age. For six months after recovery he was free from symptoms of vesical calculus, but he then began to suffer, and a second stone, weighing 6.7 grammes, was removed by lateral lithotomy. The symptoms experienced on the second occasion were severe pain on micturition with the passage of blood and pus. (mm.) a Mulberry Calculus, weighing 4.6 grammes. Removed by lateral lithotomy from a boy, aged 13, on October 3rd. The patient was dis- charged cured on November 3rd, 1877. (vv.) Four Fragments of a facetted stone, weighing 5.7 grammes. Removed by dilatation of tlie urethra from a woman, aged 40. Five days after the operation all pain and swelling had subsided, and three weeks later she was able to retain her water. (^ww.) A Flattened Stone with irregular extremities, weighing 8.3 grammes. Tlie calculus was removed from a boy, aged 11 years, on June 4th, and the patient was dis- charged cured on June 21st, 1879. (xx.) A Mulberry Calculus, weighing 5.9 grammes, and consisting chiefly of oxalate of lime. It was removed from a boy, aged 10 years. The operation was performed on July 5th, 1878, and the patient had recovered on July 28th. (jjy.) A Mulberry Calculus, weigliing 4.7 grammes. It is somewhat darker in colour than the preceding. From a boy, aged seven years. Lateral lithotomy was performed on October 4th, and the boy had recovered on October 27th, 1877. (zz.) An Oval Calculus, which lay in a pouch in the bladder in such a manner that it was only once felt by the sound. It weighs 9.9 grammes. Previous to its removal by lateral lithotomy an attempt was made to crush it as it lay in the bladder. From a man. aged 55 years, who died of exhaustion on the seventh day after the lithotomy. (cida.) Two Calculi, removed from a boy, aged eleven years. One is friable, weighing 5.7 grammes; the other is an oxalate of lime mulberry calculus, which weighs 5.1 grammes. The calculi were removed on November 30th, and the patient had recovered on December 21st, 1878. (bbb.) A Small Calculus, weighing 0.3 gramme. Removed from the urethra of a boy, aged six years. It was impacted near the orifice, and a slight incision was necessary to remove it. (ccc.) A Spherical Light-Coloured Calculus, weighing 11.5 grammes. It was removed from Hashem, aged six years, the son of Saffir Kowaree, by the operation of lateral lithotomy. (ddd.) An Oval Calculus, weighing 11.5 grammes. Removed from a boy, aged six years, who had experienced the symptoms of stone for fifteen months. URIC ACID CALCULUS DEPOSITED ON AN IMMATURE BILHARZIA. 189a. A small Vesical Calculus, passed by a patient who subsequently suffered from parasitic hematuria. The stone weighs three grains; it consists chiefly of uric acid. 1886