DISEASES OF THE TESTICLE, ITS COVERINGS, AND OF THE SPERMATIC CORD. 227 2754a. Part of the Sac of a Hydrocele, in which there were three nodules in a line above the epididymis. One of the nodules has been removed for examination, when it appeared to be of a bony nature. Throughout the sac are scattered numerous small and hard tubercles, and here and there are minute deep brown bodies firmly attached to the inner surface of the tunica vaginalis. Microscopically, the small growths consist of fibro-cartilage. 1887 Presented by C. B. Lockwood, Esq. ABSCESS OF THE TESTIS. 2762a. A Section of the Left Testicle, with a Portion of the Cord. The body of the testis j^resents a large oval abscess cavity partially filled with caseating material. The abscess has a very thick wall, and has destroyed almost the whole of the glan- dular substance. The globus major has also a small abscess in its substance. 1888 From a man, aged 36, who noticed a swelling in his left testis for two years.- The right testis began to swell eighteen months after he first observed the enlargement of the left. Before removal, the left testis was of the size of a lemon, and felt hard and uneven. There was no pain on pressure ; the epididymis was hard and thickened, and the spermatic cord was thickened. See Blale Surgical Register, vol. v. (1888), No. 2227. 2764a. A Section through a Fungating Tubercular Testis, in which the tunica vaginalis is distended by a hasmatocele. The shrunken body of the testis is in direct connection with the fungating mass, which is closely adherent to the skin. The sinus which communicated with the testis was situated on the lower and inner side of the scrotum. The epididymis is separated from the testis by the whole width of the hajmatocele, a fact which can only be explained by supposing that there has been an unusual distension of the digital fossa of the timica vaginalis. The hsematocele is evidently of very long duration, for its walls are greatly thickened, and in some places are calcified. 1889 Prom a man, aged 20, who had been kicked on the left testicle four and a half years previously. He had symptoms of puhiionary phthisis. See Male Surgical Register, vol. i. (.1888), No. 23i9. 2772a. A Testis, which contains a degenerating gumma in its substance. On the left side is a small testicular hydrocele. 1885 Sections are preserved in Series Iv., No. 538. Presented by C. B. Lockwood, Esq. TUBERCULAR TESTIS. 2774a. The left half of a Testis, with the surrounding structures. The section shows that the body of the testis is adherent to, and partly protruding from, the skin of the scrotum ; the larger mass behind, which is largely composed of fibrous tissue and contains a caseating mass at its posterior and lower part, is the altered and greatly enlarged epididymis. Above this the constituents of the cord are all enlarged ; the vessels and lymphatics form one mass in front, while the greatly thickened vas deferens lies behind. In connection with this is an old abscess cavity, measuring nearly two inches in its long diameter. This has been laid open, display- ing caseous material in its interior. 1892 The patient was a man, aged 29, who had suffered from an enlarged testis for one year. It was removed by operation. See Male Surgical Register, vol. iii. (1890), No. 1984. 2774b. A Testis, which has been laid open. The section shows that the greater part of the body has been converted into a dense fibrous mass, embedded in which are six small nodules composed of caseous matter. At one part the skin has