DISEASES OF JOINTS. 32 625a. The Right Half of the Pelvis, Hip Joint and Pelvic Organs from a case of long-standing Hip Disease. The specimen has been partially macerated and the muscles removed from the bones. As a result of inflammation, the periosteum of the femur and ilium separated with great readiness. To a large extent the neck of the femur has disappeared. The femur itself has been partially dislocated on to the dorsum ilii, and has become ankylosed ia that position. Suppuration extended round the joint in various directions, both inside and outside the pelvis, as shown by several smooth-lined abscess cavities. One sinus led through the great sciatic notch into the rectum, through which a black india-rubber tube has been passed. 1890 From a child, aged 11, who had suffered from disease of the hip for a lengthened period. Four months before death a pelvic abscess formed, and three months later two large sequestra were removed by operation from the region of the acetabulum. She partially recovered from this, but at length died, two and a half years after the commencement of the disease, from exhaustion caused by prolonged suppuration. Presented by James Berry, Esq. 627a. A Section through the Left Hip-Joint, from a case of Morbus Coxa3. The head of the femur and the acetabulum are denuded of cartilage and the bone is superficially eroded. Dense fibrous adhesions everywhere unite the two surfaces of the bones, so that there is only very slight movement between them. The re- mainder of the bones presents no evidence of disease, nor is there any abscess. 1889 From a child, aged eight years. The disease of the hip had existed for a period of four and a half years, and it was considered to be nearly cured. Death resulted from general tuber- culosis. No suppuration had at any time existed in connection with the hip-disease. A section of the spine showing angular curvature is preserved iu Series v., No. 1103a. Obtained in exchange from the Museum of the Royal Free Hospital. 639a. A Portion of the Right Femur, with the Patella, Tibia, and Fibula. The bones are united by firm ligamentous union, as a result of long-standing disease of the knee-joint. The tibia is flexed upon the femur and is drawn outwards, but it is neither rotated outwards nor dislocated backwards. The external tuberosity of the tibia is converted by the carious process into a mere shell of bone. 1889 (In Case G.) From a girl, aged 12 years, who sustained an injury to her knee fifteen months before the amputation was performed. Tubercular disease of the joint was set up. See Female Surgical Register, vol. i. (1888), No. 1298. 645a. The Right Hand of a woman which during life exhibited a marked instance of " Heberden's nodes." The terminal phalanges are united by bony ankylosis. The two distal phalanges of the fourth finger have been divided longitudinally to show how complete has been the synostosis. In the neighbourhood of the joints deposits of urates can still be seen ; these deposits were much more abundant before the maceration. 1887 From a woman, aged 63, who died of cancer of the gall-bladder. During life it was recorded that "the joints of the fingers, and especially those of the right thumb, have well- marked Heberden's nodes. These nodes appear to be simply exaggerations of the normal prominences of the phalanges. The joints between the two last phalanges of the index and middle fingers of the right hand, and the same joint in the left hand, are ankylosed. The joints of the metatarso-phalangeal joints of both great-toes were somewhat enlarged and glazed. There were no tophi, nor was there any rheumatic or gouty history in the family of the patient." Sir Dyce Duckworth, showing the hand before the British Medical Association at Belfast, stated that it was taken from the body of a woman who preseuted marked examples of Herberdcn's nodes, believed to be rheumatic during life, but shown to be, as he believed, solely due to a gouty and uratic diathesis. See British Medical Journal, 1884, vol. ii., p. 270. Sec Mary Ward Bool; for 1884, No. 798, and Medical Post-Mortvm. Register, vol. xi., p. 83. Casts of both hands are preserved in Series Ivi., No. 23b.