DISEASES OF THE PROSTATE GLAND. 236 sacculated abscess cavity, capable of holding three ounces of pus. The abscess did not ojDen into either the bladder or the rectum. In order to show this abscess, the bladder has been inverted. 1887 From a man, aged 63, who was admitted, three weeks before his death, with a fracture of the tibia and fibula. He developed symptoms of bladder-disease whilst he was in the Hospital, and the abscess could be clearly detected during life. See Male Surgical Register, vol. ii. (1885), No. 2924. 2844b. A Section through a Bladder and Prostate Gland, from a case of acute prostatic abscess. The right lobe of the prostate is spongy, and contains a small abscess cavity ; it is in a state of diffuse suppuration. The recto-vesical pouch has been completely obliterated by a smooth-walled abscess, which extends backwards from the floor of the urethra almost to the rectum. This abscess is in communication anteriorly with the urethra, and with an abscess cavity between the symphysis pubis and the wall of the bladder, and above with the floor of the bladder by a sinus, through which a glass rod has been passed. The mucous membrane of the bladder is superficially ulcerated. The right kidney was normal, whilst the left kidney was entirely absent. The urethra is normal, except at the point where the abscess opens. There was no stricture. 1889 From a man, aged 42 years, who for many years had a fistula in ano. See ilale Surgical Register, vol. ii. (1889), No. 2015. ABSCESS. 2844c. A Bladder and Eectum, with the prostatic and membranous portions of the Urethra. The bladder and urethra are laid open from the front. There is extensive ulceration of the membranous portion of the urethra, with two fistulas opening in the perineum, resulting from urethral stricture. A large abscess formed in the prostate. During the attempted evacuation of urine by a catheter the instrument passed into the abscess, through its posterior wall, and thence into the recto-vesical pouch. Its track is marked by a glass rod. Acute general peritonitis ensued, which quickly proved fatal. 1891 See Male Surgical Register, vol. v. (1889), No. 2173. EXCISION OF PORTIONS OF THE PROSTATE. 2848a. A Bladder, with the Membranous Urethra, from which large portions of the prostate were removed by operation ten months before death. The patient had been four times cut for stone. The urethra opens into a pouch, which, in the fresh state, was capable of containing two or three ounces of fluid. The walls of the pouch are formed anteriorly of condensed fibrous tissue, and nearer to the bladder of the remains of prostatic tissue. The pouch appears to have been formed within the prostate, and to represent the part from which the prostatic tissue had been removed. It communicates by a large opening with the bladder, which is thickened and contracted in the places where it is pouched. 1887 From a man, aged 66. During the performance of lithotomy for the second time, it was found that the middle lobe of the prostate was enlarged, and had been perforated by the previous use of instruments. The hypertrophied portion was therefore, removed through a median incision. A fortnight later, the lithotomy wound was dilated, and a growth was removed from the right side of the prostate. The portions of the prostate and the calculi are preserved in the next specimen. No. 2848b. See Pitcairn Ward Buoh, vol. viii., p, 395, and 3Iale Sxhrgiual Register, vol. iii. (1884), No. 1442, and vol. iii. (1885), No. 840. 2848b. The Calculi and portions of the Prostate, removed from the patient men- tioned in the preceding case. The total weight of the calculi is forty grains, whilst the portions of the prostrate weigh one and a half ounces. 1887 See specimen No. 2848a.