DISBASEB AND INJURIES OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS. 141 From a woman, aged 35, who liad acquired syphilis about twelve years before her admission to the Hospital. All round the margins of the anus and vagina, and extending for some distance up both, there was a mass of cicatricial tissue to be felt during life. The patient had suffered for several years from diarrhoea, and for some months before her death had been unable to retain her freces. Left lumbar colotomy was performed three days before death. At the autopsy no other signs of syphilis were discovered. A microscopic section is preserved in Series Iv., No. 2G8, See Traiisactiuns of the Patlwlogical Society, vol. xxxvii., p. 258, and Female Surgical Register, vol. v. (1885), No. 16i4. 2062a. A portion of the Rectum, laid open to show a pedunculated rectal polypus. The polypus is attached to the mucous membrane of the intestine by a tapering stalk measuring an inch and a quarter in length. It is spongy in texture, and it contains small cavities tilled with clear fluid. Under the microscope the tumour is found to be composed of areolar tissue containing a number of glands resembling those found in the rectal mucous membrane. 1886 From a woman, aged 50, in whom it was accidentally discovered at the post-mortem examination. 2062b. A very large Polypus, which sprang from the inside of the rectum immediately above the anus. The greater portion of the tumour is a simple papilloma, but at one part of its base it is becoming cancerous. The cancerous portion is undergoing colloid degeneration. It is situated at the neck of the polypus, close to the skin of the anus. A small fistula connects the cancerous portion with the exterior ; a glass rod has been passed along its track. 1889 From a man, aged 55, who had been troubled for six years with a mucous discharge from his rectum. The discharge was occasionally stained with blood. For some months before the removal of the growth he suffered from dilBculty in passing his motions and from a small fistula. The polypus was in great part attached to the mucous membrane, but near the anus it had infiltrated the wall of the bowel and had extended to the skin. Sections are preserved in Series Iv., Nos, 275 and 276. Presented by D. H. Goodsall, Esq. 2062c. A large papillomatous growth, removed from the Rectum, It is a soft lobular tumour, which was reddish-coloured when fresh. It was attached to the wall of the bowel by a pedicle of myxomatous tissue, measuring four inches in width. Microscopically, it was found to consist of numerous branching papillaj, covered with columnar epithelium, and formed of very delicate connective tissue. 1889 From a woman, aged 50, who had observed the growth for two years. See Female Surgical Register, vol. iv. (1888), No. 1912. 2064a. A very large fibro-cellular polypus, from the Rectum. Its surface is smooth, and presents a slight trace of lobulation ; its base of attaciiment is about one inch and a half in diameter. On section, it appears to be composed of very loose gelatinous connective tissue, the spaces of which immediately after removal contained a considerable amount of fluid. The weight of the tumour, when fresh, was nearly two pounds. 1883 The patient was a girl, aged 24. She had suffered for some time with slight difficulty of deffecation, which, however, caused but little trouble. One day, while straining at stool, the tumour was extruded through the anus by the sphincter, by which it was tightly gripped, and became irreducible. It was then removed by transfixion of the base and ligature. Microscopic sections are preserved, No. 271.—The case is described by Mr. Bowlby in the Transaotio7is of the Patlwlogical Society, vol. xxxiv., p. 107. Presented by Dr. Everley Taylor. MULTIPLE POLYPI OF THE RECTUM. 2065a. The Rectiim, with the anus and a portion of the sigmoid flexm-e, from a case of multiple polypi of the rectum. There is a considerable deposit of adenoid cancer at the junction of the sigmoid flexure with the rectum. It surrounds the bowel and almost obliterates its canal. A glass rod has been passed through the stricture thus L 2