DISEASES OF JOINTS. 33 650a. Synarthrosis of the Hip-Joint, 1885 (In Case G.) From a case of morbus coxfe of twenty-eight years' duration. See Medical Post-Mortem Book, vol. xi., p. 174, and Male Surgical Register, vol. iv. (1885), No. 535. 650b. Synostosis of Hip-Joint. 1885 (In Case G.) See Male Surgical Register, vol. iv. (1885), No. 535. 650c. A Section of the Eight Hip-Joint, from a case in which bony ankylosis of all the large joints of the lower extremity followed an attack of rheumatic fever. The femur is fixed to the os innominatum by bone, the ankylosis being firm and smooth. The union between the ilium and the head of the femur is only complete at those points where they were in contact ; at the bottom of the acetabulum, where the two bones did not touch, there is a space. The cartilage covering the head of the femur has entirely disappeared, whilst the bottom of the acetabulum is so thinned that only a transparent membrane remains. The great trochanter also has undergone so much atrophy that its free margins present sharp edges. The femur has been divided below the lesser trochanter. The upper portion of the bone is fixed in a position of flexion and adduction, whilst the lower portion is displaced behind aod to the outer side, so that it lies upon the lower portion of the great trochanter. The two fragments are firmly united by bone. The pro- jecting extremity of the upper fragment is covered by dense fibrous tissue, in the centre of which is a small abscess cavity. 1888 From a man, aged 22, who had bony ankylosis of tlie right liip, knee, and ankle, after an attack of rheumatic fever five and a half years before his death. Excision of the right ankle was performed on January 14th, excision of the right knee on February 19th, and division of the right femur in its upper third on July 16th. The patient died of amyloid disease on October 23rd in the same year. On admission to the Hospital he had a mitral murmur, but the heart was found to be normal at the autopsy. See 3Iale Swrgical Register, vol. i. (1887), No. 1480. 656a. A portion of the Femur and Tibia with the Patella. The bones are fused together by the process of bony ankylosis. The Tibia is dislocated outwards and backwards as the result of long-standing joint disease. The specimen, therefore, illustrates the form of " triple displacement" which so often succeeds chronic inflammation of the knee-joint, for the articulation is flexed, dislocated backwards, and rotated outwards. 1886 (In Case G.) 657a. A Section through the Eight Knee-Joint, from the same case as No. 650c. Excision had been performed eight months previously. There is complete bony union of the tibia and femur. The ivory pegs which were used at the time of the operation to fix the two bones together are seen to be vascularised from the neigh- bouring cancellous tissue ; in the one which has been divided longitudinally, some amount of absorption has taken place, and it is so completely continuous with the bones as to form an integral portion of them. 1888 657b. A Section through the Left Knee-Joint of the patient from whom the preceding specimen and No. 650c were taken. The femur is firmly united by bone with the tibia, the joint being in a condition of flexion. The patella is so completely ankylosed with the femur, that the cancellous tissue of the two bones appears to be continuous. (Cf. 659a.) 1888 659a. A Section through the Eight Tibia and Ankle-Joint, also taken from the same patient. There is complete bony ankylosis between the tibia and astragalus and between the astragalus and os calcis. All the bones are much atrophied from disuse. 1888 Other specimens from the same case are preserved in Series ii., Nos. 650c and 657 a and b. D