DISEASES AND INJUEIES OF THE URINARY BLADDER. 197 glass rods have been passed, are situated on either side of the central laceration. The larger rupture involves the peritoneum. 1887 From a man, aged 49, who was run over by an omnibus. He stated that he had not passed water for five or six hours before the accident. He died of shock, and at the autopsy the small intestine was found to be ruptured, the mesentery was torn, and there was a comminuted fracture of the pelvis. See Male Surgical Register, vol. i. (1885), No. 2873. 2440c. A Bladder, which has undergone extensive extra-peritoneal laceration. A large rent is situated on either side of the organ, about three-quarters of an inch above the vesical orifice of the urethra. The lacerations communicate with a cavity large enough to hold a small orange, which existed between the back of the pubes and the front of the bladder. The membranous portion of the urethra is also torn transversely. The peritoneum was not ruptured, but there was extensive extra- vasation of urine into the cellular tissue of the pelvis and the back of the abdomen. 1888 From a boy, aged 14, who fell between a railway platform and a moving train. There was a fracture through both horizontal rami of the pubes, as well as through the descending ramus of the ischium. The patient survived the injury for thirty-three hours. See Male Surgical Register, vol. iii. (1887), No. 1181. 2443a. A Bladder, upon which the operation of supra-pubic lithotomy was performed, three days before the death of the patient, for the removal of an encysted calculus. The bladder is somewhat hypertrophied, and in addition to the pouch and depression which are seen in the specimen, there is a cavity in the left side of the prostate, which was filled with prostatic calculi. A few of these calculi have dropped out, and are seen at the bottom of the bottle. 1888 From a man, aged 57, who had for some years suffered from slight hematuria and cystitis, with frequent micturition. He had been sounded several times, but always with a negative result. In 1886 he came under the care of Mr. Swinford Edwards, and after a prolonged examination under chloroform, a stone was detected. As it was impossible to seize the stone with a lithotrite, supra-pubic lithotomy was performed, and a stone was found impacted in the pouch at the left side of the bladder. The stone was removed with some little difficulty, and with it some calculous material from the depression situated near the apex of the bladder, into which a glass rod has been inserted. The patient died three days later with suppression of urine. At the autopsy the kidneys were found to be granular. Presented by F. Swinford Edwards, Esq. SUPRA-PUBIC CYSTOTOMY. 2443Tb. The Bladder, Ureters, and Kidneys, from a man on whom the operation of supra-pubic cystotomy for the extraction of a very large calculus, weighing twenty-four and a half ounces, was performed rather more than one year before his death. The bladder is shrunken and its walls thickened. Tliere is a small fistulous opening in the scar above the pubis, marked by a blue glass rod. The ureters are both dilated, their walls are hypertrophied, and a small calculus blocks the entrance of the left ureter into the bladder. Both kidneys are extensively diseased. On the right side the pelvis is dilated, and there is little, if any, kidney substance remaining. On the left side there is much hypertrophy, with dilatation of the pelvis and of the spaces between the pyramids, while the cortex is thickened. 1893 From a soldier, aged 44. Until a few weeks before his admission for the operation, he had been on active duty as a sergeant of artillery, without any symptoms. The wound closed, and in three months he recovered from the operation sufficiently to return to his duties. Eighteen months later he returned to the hospital, as a small fistula had formed in the track of the scar after some heavy work. He then had a considerable amount of pus in his urine, with slight attacks of dysuria. Suppression of urine set in, from which he died. At the post-mortem it was found that a calculus was blocking the ureter, as seen in the specimen. The calculus, which weighed twenty-four and a half ounces, is preserved in Series lii,, Na 54a. See Male Sm-gical Register, vol. ii. (1887), No. 2200.