102 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE EXPERIMENTAL TUBERCULOSIS. 1713a. The Thoracic and Abdominal Viscera of a guinea-pig, which died ninety-two days after inoculation with tubercular material obtained from a human subject. The lungs, liver, spleen, and kidneys are filled with miliary tubercle. 1887 Prepared and presented by Prof. J. T. Cash, M.D., F.R.S. 1715a. Section of a Lung, injected, in which miliary tubercles are very thickly scattered. 1881 Presented by the Royal College of Surgeons. TUBERCULOSIS. 1717a. A Section of Lung, showing a complete infiltration of the whole pulmonary tissue with miliary tubercle. The masses are better seen on that surface of the lung whicli was cut whilst the specimen was fresh, than on that which was made after hardening in spirit. 1889 From a man, aged 37. There was no caseation or breaking down of the pulmonary tissue. See Medieal Post-Moi'tem Register, vol. xv., p. 24. 1718a. The Right Lung of a patient who died of tubercular phthisis. The apex of the lung is characteristically puckered. The puckering corresponds to deeply-seated encapsulated cavities lying in spongy lung tissue. Numerous nodules are scattered through the rest of the lungs. The left lung of the same patient was extensively excavated and generally diseased. 1887 From a man, aged 23, a candlemaker by trade, who had chronic phthisis of more than four years' duration. 1718b. The Left Lung of a patient who had tubercular phthisis. In the upper lobe are large cavities with trabecule running across them. In the lower lobes are numerous small suppurating cavities, some filled with caseating material, whilst others are of acute origin. In a small cavity at the base is a single unruptured miliary aneurysm. 1887 From a man, aged 27, a metal-turner by trade. The phthisis was of two years' duration ; it commenced with hfemoptysis, and he suffered much from diarrhoea. A portion of the intestine, showing the tubercular ulceration, is preserved in Series xviii., No. 2016a. 1718c. The Right Lung from a patient who had tubercular phthisis. In the upper lobe is a large excavation, across which run numerous trabeculte. The rest of the lobe is filled with caseous nodules. In the lower lobes are softening caseous masses with acute suppurating cavities. 1887 From a man, aged 19, a porter. The phthisis had probably existed for about a year. It commenced with an attack of bronchitis. The urgent symptoms lasted six months. 1718d. The Left Lung of a patient who had tubercular phthisis. As in the pre- vious specimen, there is a large trabeculated excavation at the apex. In the lower and anterior part of the upper lobe the indurated lung tissue is hollowed out into small cavities. In one of the cavities is an unruptured aneurysm, of no great size, which is filled with a thrombus. 1887 From a man, aged 32, a buttermau, who had chronic phthisis for two years. The four preceding specimens were presented by Percy Kidd, M.D. 1724a. Right Lung of a girl, aged eleven months. There is a large cavity in the uppermost lobe. The cavity is hned by a membrane and is crossed by the remains of a vessel. 1885 The right lung contained several smaller cavities. The left was filled with tubercle. The child had suffered from a cough for more than a month before its death. It suddenly developed symptoms of acute tuberculosis, and died witli meningitis. The peritoneum, liver, spleen, and kidneys contained masses of tubercle. Exhibited by Dr. Norman Moore at the Pathological Society. See Transactions of the Pathological Society, vol. xxxvi. (1885), p. 108. 1