87 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF ARTERIES. magna, however, the femoral artery is pervious and apparently healthy. It gives off several small branches. The aneurysm is converted into dense fibrous tissue. Below the aneurysm the popliteal is patent. 1885 Cf. No. 1407. A labourer, aged 49, who had syphiHs eighteen years previously. The aneurysm was noticed three weeks prior to admission, although he had suiiered pain in his knee for two years. An Esmarch's bandage aifording no relief, the artery was tied in two places with a catgut ligature, and divided. Pulsation returned five months later, and the aneurysm was cured by flexion. Death resulted from rupture of an intra-pericardial aortic aneurysm. See Henry Ward Booh, vol. vii., p. 67, and Surgical Post-Mortem Book for 1885, p. 101. 1551c. The Iliac, Common Femoral, and Popliteal Arteries, from a case in which the femoral had been ligatured in Scarpa's triangle twenty years before the death of the patient, for the cure of a popliteal aneurysm. The operation was performed by Mr. Stanley, late surgeon to the Hospital. The artery has unfortunately been divided close to the seat of ligature, but has been sewn together again with silk. For an inch and three-quarters from this point it has become converted into a solid fibrous cord, which is slightly smaller than the rest of the artery. Between the point of ligature and the remains of the aneurysm the artery is pervious and gives off several large vessels, but its lumen is partially occluded by a thin membranous blood-clot. The aneurysm itself is converted into a dense mass of fibrous tissue. 1887 From a man, aged 50, who died from the rupture of an aneurysm of the aorta. See Mark Ward Book for 1887, No. 44. 1552a. A Portion of the Arch of the Aorta, with the Larynx and Trachea, from a case of aneurysm of the arch simulating an aneurysm of the innominate artery. The common carotid artery of the right side was ligatured thirty days before the death of the patient. The aneurysm arises from the transverse part of the arch, and extends upwards for a distance of five inches behind the right common carotid artery. It is conical in shape, and nearly filled with a laminated clot; its sac wall is complete, but thin. It overlies the innominate artery, and has compressed it at its bifurcation. The trachea throughout its whole course has been flattened laterally by its pressure. The right carotid artery is compressed at its origin by the aneurysm ; its upper portion is filled with recent clot. The seat of ligature presents an ulcerated appearance where the artery has been divided, and its ends have retracted for a distance of nearly an inch. In the distal end is a little adherent clot, which extends as high as the bifurcation of the vessel. There is no sign of repair in either of the cut ends, nor is there any thickening in their walls. 1888 From a sailor, aged 59, who first noticed a swelling in the right side of his neck two years before he came under observation. When the swelling first appeared he had an attack of " asthma." He never had syphilis, and he had always been a sober man. The swelling, which Increased slowly, was diagnosed as an aneurysm of the innominate artery. Thirty days before the death of the patient, his right common carotid was ligatured with silk in two places, and was subsequently divided between the ligatures. Pulsation recurred in the temporal artery within an hour of the operation. Thirteen days later, he suddenly lost consciousness for a short time, and on the fourteenth day after the operation he lost perception of light in his right eye. At the post-mortem examination slight superficial softening of the left tempero-sphenoidal lobe was observed. The aneurysm was found to be in close contact with the sternum ; it had compressed the vagus and root of the right lung, and had pushed upward and compressed the left innominate vein. It was closely adherent to the right clavicle and the first and second ribs on the right side. The whole aorta was very atheromatous. See 3Iale Surgical Register, vol. ii. (1886), No. 2663, and Surgical Post-3Iortem Register for 1886, pp. 162, 163. 1559a. Portion of a left middle Cerebral Artery from within the fissure of Sylvius, completely occluded by an embolus ; two of its branches, given off to the frontal