250 DISEASES OF THE UTEBUS. having passed up to the right corau of the uterus, suddenly becomes narrowed, and is bent at a right angle backwards, then directly downwards, and again to the left, forming three right angles in a course of as many inches. At each bend is a valvular fold of mucous membrane, which is best seen at the first angle, where the constriction is greatest. The bowel, which is probably the sigmoid flexure, passes upwards and to the left, forming the upper boundary of the cavity towards the left iliac fossa. Prom nearly the attached border of this fold of intestine to the upper border of the uterus and left broad ligament is a tough fold of membrane about two inches wide, which has been divided along its whole extent, so as to show the cavity of the effusion. This can only be organised lymph, which has entangled some of the masses of fat with which every part of the body was loaded. It forms part of the anterior wall of the cyst. It can be seen also that the left broad liga- ment forms part of the anterior wall, whilst the right is probably bent backwards, forming the right lateral margin, and, with the soft parts forming the wall of the pelvis, is adherent to the displaced rectum. Neither ovary can be distinguished, but the round ligament on both sides, and the Fallopian tube on the left, remain. In the lateral walls of the cavity may be seen, on the left side, the common iliac vessels, and on the right probably the external iliac artery and vein. The cavity is lined with lymph, ragged and shreddy in parts, and much resembles those containing pus. 1884 A drawing is preserved in Series Ivii., No. 995. For further details, see a paper by W. S. A. Griffith, M.D., in the St. Baiiholomew's IIu.s2)ital Re^xirts, 1882, vol. xviii., pp. 291-296. 295113. Retroversion of the Gravid Uterus. The uterus is lined by the decidua vera. 1885 From a woraari, aged 41, married nineteen years, in the eleventh week of pregnancy. During life the retroversion was reduced by the hand in the vagina ; but the patient had retention of urine. She aborted three days before deatli. 2951c. A vertical Section of the Bladder, Uterus, and Rectum. The uterus is retrovorted by an ovarian tumour, which occupies the utero-vesical pouch. The pouch of Douglas has become obliterated as a result of adhesive perimetritis. 1886 2951 d. A Sagittal Section of the Uterus and Bladder, from a case of parametric abscess of the right broad ligament and iliac fossa. The uteras and ovaries are displaced towards the left side of the pelvis. The abscess cavity is seen to extend into the cellular tissue between the uterus and the bladder. 1887 Details of the case, with a further description, will be found in the Transactions of the Obstetrical Society, vol. xxix., p. 147. A drawing of the parts as they appeared in situ is preserved in Series Ivii., No. 993. PARAMETRITIS DEXTRA (PURULENT.) 29518. The Uterus with its Appendages, and the lower portion of the Bladder, from a woman, aged twenty-four, who suffered from an irreducible retroversion of the uterus in the fourth month of her first pregnancy. The uterus is large but empty ; the left appendages and broad ligament are healthy. The right broad ligament is distended with pus and sloughing cellular tissue, extending from the Fallopian tube above to the levator ani below, and from the side of the uterus to the side of the pelvis. The right ovary is adherent to the posterior surface of the broad ligament, it is suppurating, and communicates with the abscess in the broad ligament. The abscess opens into the peritoneal cavity by two large apertures, situated on its posterior and upper surfaces. These openings did not exist during Hfe, though the tissues, which occupied their places, were gangrenous. The right Fallopian tube passes round the upper margin of the upper opening, its fimbriated extremity being