SERIES XIX. DISEASES AID mURIES OE THE RECTIJI AO Airs. 2046a. Large Intestine and Rectum, The wliole extent of the gut is superficially ulcerated, the ulceration terminating abruptly by a transverse line at the lower part of the specimen, 1885 From a woman who had no syphilitic or tubercular history, but who had suffered from symptoms of stricture of the rectum for two and a half years before her death. See Sitwell War^ Booh, vol. viii., p. 176. 2048a. The Rectum, with the Uterus and a portion of the Vagina, from a patient who had a fibrous stricture of tlie rectum. The stricture is tubular, and commences three inches above the anus, extending upwards to a height of six or seven inches. It is so tight that the glass rod which is passed through the upper portion almost fills the lumen of tlie gut. The stricture seems to be produced by a thickening and contraction of the muscular coat. The muscular element appears to have disappeared, leaving only a greatly hypertrophied fibrous network. The upper part of the stricture ends abruptly, but the mucous membrane is superficially ulcerated for a distance of from one to two inches liigher, the muscular coat corresponding to this portion being somewhat hypertrophied, but not contracted. At the bottom of Douglas' pouch is a well-marked cicatrix, apparently indicating the site of an old abscess cavity in the fascia between the peritoneum and the rectum. The rectum opposite this point has been dragged upon, and drawn tovpards the cicatrix. 1887 From a woman, aged 32, who was quite well till she was prematurely delivered of a still- born child six years before her death. This premature labour was followed by intense pain in the lower part of the belly, and she had other symptoms of pelvic cellulitis. A month later she had a discharge of blood and pus from the rectum, which continued for some weeks. Soon afterwards she noticed a slight difficulty in passing her motions, and she also had some discharge from her bowel. The trouble gradually increased, until a year before her death, when it rapidly got worse. See Female Surgical Reg ister, vol. iv. (1885), No. 2311, and Transactions of the Pathological Society, vol. xxxvii., p. 255. 2055a. A Rectum, with the surrounding parts, from a woman, aged forty-two. The last two inches of the rectum exhibit numerous fistulous openings, A little higher up is a rather larger perforation, through which a catheter is passed into an abscess cavity in Douglas's pouch, capable of holding about half a pint of fluid. The lower part of the colon and the sigmoid flexure are closely adherent to the abscess wall, which in one place has so compressed the gut as to interfere with its calibre. The uterus is much flattened and forms part of the abscess wall, 1883 The patient was admitted to the Hospital suffering from symptoms of obstruction of the large intestine. Colotomy was proposed, but the patient declined to submit to any operation. She had been treated for fistula in Guy's Hospital a year previously. See Stanley Ward Book, vol. x., p. 173. L