252 DISEASES OF THE UTERUS. catamenia ceased suddenly. She experienced irregular and severe contractile pains, which first came on two months after the menopause. The tumour had not increased in size since the cessation of the catamenia. After removal it weighed twenty-one lbs. The other half of the specimen is in the Hunterian Museum. See Transactions of the Obstetrical Society for 1887. Presented by W. A. Meredith, Esq. CYSTIC ADENOMA OF THE CERVIX UTERI. 2960a. The Anterior Lip of a Cervix Uteri, enlarged so as to form an oval tumour, which protruded through the vulva of a woman, aged thirty-two, who was believed to be in the third month of her third pregnancy. The tumour lay with its long axis horizontal and transverse, measuring two and a half inches. On section it was seen to be a spongy mass, which exuded large quantities of the tenacious mucus characteristic of the cervix. Microscopically, the cavities were lined with a single layer of columnar epithelium. 1887 See Martha Ward Book for 1886, s. v. Hannah Hogg. ADENOMA OF THE MUCOUS MEMBRANE OF THE BODY OF THE UTERUS. 2962a. An Uterus, with its Appendages. The mucous membrane of the body is seen to be so greatly thickened as to form small masses, which project into the uterine cavity. The cavity of the uterus is filled with thick tenacious mucus similar to that which is secreted by the cervical glands. The cervix is normal. Microscopically, the mucous membrane of the body of the uterus consists of a mass of dilated glands lined by a single layer of goblet cells. Many of the gland ducts are occluded to form small retention cysts. The Fallopian tubes present only senile changes. The ovaries are small, hard, and white ; a pedunculated cyst, as large as a marble, is in connection with the left ovary. , 1888 From a woman, aged 63, who for fifteen or twenty years before her death had suffered from myxoedema, with atrophy of the thyroid gland. There was an effusion into the chief serous cavities of the body. Presented by James Berry, Esq. 2963a. A portion of the Cervix Uteri, and upper part of the Vagina. A peduncu- lated mucous polypus grows from the cervix, and projects through the os tincaj downwards into the vagina. 1886 CHANNELLED POLYPUS. 2967a. A Channelled and Pedunculated Polypus, removed from the uterus. The peduncle is solid, but the polypus itself is hollow, and is lined by a smooth mem- brane. The wall is deficient at one part, and presents a large oval aperture. 1888 FIBRINOUS POLYPUS. 2976a. An Uterus, enlarged to more than twice its natural size, and containing a large fibrinous polypus attached to the posterior wall over a surface measuring two and a half inches in length. The lower portion of the polypus lies free in the uterine cavity, and extends through the internal os, at which point it has a well-marked constriction, to within half an inch of the external os. The polypus has been bisected vertically, and its external portion may be seen to be of a much paler colour than the more central part, which appears to consist chiefly of recent blood-clot. 1883 From a woman, aged 27, who had been a widow for six years, and had borne three children, the youngest of whom was two and a half years old. She stated that she was certainly not pregnant, that her catamenia had been absent for the past five months, and that for the week previous to her admission to the Hospital she had suffered from hEemorrhage from the vagina, with bearing-down pains. For three months she had noticed swelling of the abdomen, and had had frequent attacks of pain in the loins. When admitted, she was in a dying condition.