DISEASES OF BONES. 19 437c. Portion of the Middle Fossa of a Skull infiltrated with a Eound-Celled Sarcoma, from the same patient as the preceding. A considerable mass of new growth is seen projecting upwards into the cranial cavity. 1886 437d.. Two Ribs from the same case as the preceding, infiltrated with a Round- Celled Sarcoma. On both bones thei'c are prominent bosses of new growth, which projected into the thoracic cavity. 1886 437e. The Fifth and Sixth Ribs of the left side, from a case of Sarcomatous Tumour following fracture. The ribs are invaded by a fungating mass, which extended into the thorax, depressing the diaphragm, encroaching upon the mediastinum, and pushing the heart bodily over to the right side. The ribs themselves are thickened, and show evident signs of a somewhat recent oblique fracture. Microscopical examination of the new growth shows that it is a round- celled sarcoma. 1887 From a boy, aged 13, who had been under treatment during the four months preceding his death for an injury to the leftside of his chest, caused by a kick, followed, as was believed, by pleurisy with efEusion. The boy's health had been perfect up to the date of his accident, and there was no family history of malignant disease. See St. Bartholomew's Hospital Ecqmrts, vol. xxii. (1886), pp. 247-249. Presented by J. E. Banking, M.13. 438a. A portion of the Spinal Column, showing a mass of Sarcomatous Tissue. The growth arises from the lamina? of the sixth, seventh, and eighth dorsal vertebrffi, and extended outwards amongst the muscles of the back for about an inch and a half on the right side. It encroached upon the spinal canal to such an extent as to destroy the cord. Microscopically, the tumour was found to be a round-celled sarcoma. (Cf. 517a.) 1888 From a lighterman, aged 18, who was admitted to Victoria Park Hospital, for aortic valvular disease. Whilst he was in the Hospital he suddenly became paraplegic. He suffered some pain, which was at first localised to the chest, and the paralysis did not extend upwards. The paraplegia was diagnosed as being the effect of pressure upon the cord. An acute bedsore developed forty-eight hours after the attack of paraplegia. The total duration of the growth of the tumour appears to have been about six months. At the autopsy, the spinal cord, where it was invaded by the growth, was found to be very much softened. The membranes were unduly adherent to the bone and were a little thickened. On removing the thoracic organs, the growth was seen to have extended from the spine into the thorax. See the British Bledica.l Journal, vol. ii. (1887), p. 1380. Presented by Vincent Harris, M.D. 441a. Sarcoma of Forearm, from a child, aged nine months. 1885 A drawing is preserved in Series Ivii., No. 53a. Presented by C. L. Lockwood, Esq. 441b. A section through the head and upper portion of a Humerus, to show an Endosteal Sarcoma growing in the surgical neck. The head, and to a less extent the upper portion of the shaft, are infiltrated by the growth, which extends outside the bone as an encapsuled tumour. The bone has been fractured, but the upper end of the medullary canal is closed. Microscopically, the new growth consists of cells, which are not larger than those of a lympho-sarcoma, and which are arranged in masses of irregular shape and size. The matrix is chiefly fibrous, though it is in parts hyaline. 1888 From a woman, aged 26, who was admitted to the Hospital with an obscure swelling of the shoulder, which she had noticed for two years. See Fenuole Surgical Register, vol. i. (1886), No. 899, and vol. i. (1887), No. 449. 441c. A portion of the right Os Innominatum, showing an extensive Sarcoma springing from the Iliac Fossa and also involving the outer surface of the bone. It 0 2