ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE LIMBS. 332 (c.) In the Pelvic Girdle. 3500a. An Os Innominatum. ISo round ligament existed in either hip-joint ; and in place of the usual attachment of the ligament to the head of tlie femur an eleva- tion of bone existed ; in all other respects the bones appear natural. It is believed that the absence of the ligaments was congenital. A. 155. 1885 [Case in top gallery.] CLASS v.—ARREST OF DEVELOPMENT. 3508a. A Leg and Foot. The tibia is congenitally absent. The fibula articulates with the outer and anterior aspect of the external condyle of the femur, its head being received into a depression lined by articular cartilage and provided with a distinct synovial cavity which was continuous with that extending between the condyles beneath the patella. Both the external and internal semilunar cartilages were present, and were invested with synovial membrane. The foot is in a condi- tion of extreme talipes equino-valgus. 1885 See Darher Ward Booh, vol. ix. (1883), p. 108. (&.) Talipes. 3509a. The Right Foot of a New-born Infant, disarticulated to show the modifica- tions undergone by the bones in a case of congenital talipes varus. In the astragalus the trochlear surface is extended backwards nearly as far as the posterior edge of the lower articular surface, whilst its neck is lengthened and directed inwards with an unnatural obliquity. The articular surface of its head is prolonged on its inner side, and instead of being uniformly convex, it is divided into two parts, the planes of which meet at an obtuse angle. The inner and larger corresponds with the scaphoid, whilst the outer portion, which looks forwards, is unopposed, owing to the displacement which the bone has undergone. The internal. malleolar facet is much smaller than usual. In the calcaneum a considerable portion of the upper posterior facet was uncovered, and was marked off from the rest by a low ridge. It articulated with the posterior border of the external malleolus. The inner portion of the posterior facet was continuous with that of the sustentaculum tali. The plane of the cuboidal facet is directed unnaturally inwards, and its outer border is less prominent than usual. 1887 3509b. The Left Foot of the Foetus from which the preceding specimen was obtained. It has not been disarticulated, but, so far as can be seen, the tarsal bones show the same modifications as in the last specimen. 1887 3509c. The Right Foot from a case of Talipes Equino-varus. The bones are dis- articulated, to show the various changes which they have undergone. These changes are nearly identical with those already described as occurring in No. 3509a. 1887 3509d. The Left Foot, from the same case as the preceding. The tendon of the tibialis posticus is seen to occupy the position which is common in this deformity. 1887 3509e. The Left Foot and Leg of a child affected with congenital talipes varus. When the body is placed in the erect position, the inner side of the foot is drawn