DISEASES OF THE MAMMARY GLAND. 266 On microscopic examination, the tumour was found to consist of a collection of large, round cells of a connective-tissue type, enclosed in alveoli, the walls of which were composed of loose connective tissue. In these were many large and thin-walled blood-vessels, from some of which small ofEshoots ran between the individual cells. (Alveolar sarcoma ?) Microscopic sections are preserved in Series Iv., No. 651. See President Ward Booh, vol. viii., p. 434. 3159a. An Adenoma of the Breast. The tumour measures three by two inches. It is a fine specimen of a true adenoma. It is completely encapsuled. Its anterior surface is roughly divided by a constriction into two lobes. The larger of these lobes is studded with nodules, as in a case of " hobnail liver," whilst the smaller is smooth. On making a section of the tumour whilst fresh, it appeared pearly white like a normal mammary gland. It did not contain any cysts. 1885 The tumour was removed from the pectoral border of the mammary gland of a lady who was four months pregnant. It had been noticed for five months. Three months before exci- sion it was so soft that it appeared to be cystic ; it was punctured, but no fluid was withdrawn. The father and father's mother died of cancer. Sections are preserved in Series Iv., No. 643. See Transactions of the Pathological Society, vol. xxxvi. (1885), p. 411. Presented by A. Willett, Esq. 3159b. Portion of a Cystic Adenoma of the Breast. It consists of a larger cyst, lying in the substance of the gland, on the wall of which a number of small cysts are growing. Upon microscopic examination the tumour was found to be composed of almost pure gland tissue. The cysts were lined with epithelium. 1886 From a married woman, aged 39. The tumour had only been noticed a week. It had a well-defined edge, and was freely moveable. The veins were not enlarged : the nipple was normal. See Female Siorgical Register, vol. iv. (1886), No. 1342. LIPOMA. 3160a. A Fatty Tumour, removed from the neighbourhood of the breast. It lay in close connection with a thin-walled simple cyst, filled with brownish serous fluid. The lipoma easily shelled out : it is circular in shape, and is of the usual structure. It measm-es an inch and a half in diameter. 1887 From a patient, aged 55, who had noticed a tumour on her left breast for about six months. It was hard, tense, and freely moveable. The distal portion felt somewhat softer than the main part of the tumour. Presented by Thomas Smith, Esq. ADENO-SARCOMA. 3161a. A Tumour of the Breast, which was encapsuled and of softish consistence. The cut surface is traversed by bands of glistening connective tissue, and presents to view many loculi and elongated spaces. 1881 The tumour consisted of soft, ill-developed connective tissue containing many nuclei, and, for the most part, resembling mucous tissue ; tubules and loculi, lined with small epithelial cells, are sparingly scattered in this tissue. From a woman, aged 19 years, who had observed the tumour about seven months. It was freely moveable, and the lymphatic glands were not enlarged. See Sitwell Ward Book, vol. vii., p. 179. 3161b. Section of a large Tumour, occupying the mammary gland, largely lobulated on the surface, and readily separable from the surrounding structures. The section shows that it is composed of a softish gelatinous tissue, containing cysts and loculi filled with soft proliferous growths, and presenting to view trabeculaj of fibrous tissue, which appear to have constituted the walls of cysts now filled up. 1881 Removed from a woman, aged 46 years. The tumour had been observed for three years. The skin over it was moveable, and the nipple not retracted ; there was no enlargement of the axillary glands. Two aunts of her father had been operated upon for " cancer " of the breast; they lived thirty and thirty-five years respectively afterwards, and neither died of cancer, nor was there any return of the disease. See Lucas Ward Book, vol. vii., p. 160.