173 DISEASES OF THE THYROID GLAND. ATROPHY OF THE THYROID GLAND. 2317a. A Larynx, with part of a Thyroid Gland, showing the extreme amount of atrophy which has taken place in a woman, aged sixty-tln'ee, who had myxoedema. The two lateral lobes are reduced to mere bags of fibrous tissue. The patient had chronic peritonitis, with great thickening of the capsules of the spleen and liver, 1889 See Medical Post-3Iortem Register, vol. xv., p. 250. 2317b. A Thyroid Gland in a condition of extreme atrophy, from a patient who died after having suffered from myxoedema for many years. 1891 The patient was a woman, aged 56, who had been under observation for some years. A photograph, taken in 1884, is preserved in Series Ivii., No. 409. See Medical Post-Mortem, Register,, vol. xviii., p. 150. 2318a. A Malignant Growth attacking a Bronchocele of many years' duration. 1887 From a middle-aged man, who lived at Barnsley, in Yorkshire. MALIGNANT DISEASE OF THE THYROID GLAND, 2318b. A Thyroid Gland, together with the Larynx, Trachea, and surrounding parts, which has become the seat of primary carcinoma. The disease has involved the whole of the left lobe and isthmus, these parts now forming a flattened oval mass with a slightly nodular surface, which is unduly and firmly adherent to the sheath of the left common carotid artery and jugular vein and other deep structures : the lymphatic glands on the right side are much affected, and form a large mass behind the vessels : the principal growth is hard and inelastic to the touch. The oesophagus has been laid open from behind, and shows a large ragged ulcerated surface, formed by direct extension of the disease, immediately behind the larynx. The trachea is somewhat flattened and is pushed over towards the right. The bodies of the fourth and fifth cervical vertebra were also involved, and, when softened, showed under the microscope distinct deposits of thyroid tissue in the substance of the bone. 1891 The patient was a widow, aged 47, who first complained of pain in the neck ten months before her admission to the Hospital. Six montlis later a swelling was noticed. Both these symptoms gradually increased until her death, which occurred fifteen months after the onset of the disease. Dysphagia only occurred daring the last two weeks of her life. A portion of the cervical spine is preserved in Series v.. No. 1131b, and microscopical sections in Series Iv., No. 100. See Female Surgical Register, vol. ii. (1891), No. 2026*. SARCOMA OF THE THYROID GLAND. 2318c. The Larynx, Trachea, and Great Vessels of the Neck. On the right side the region of tlae thyroid gland is occupied by a large tumour, which has become adherent to and has directly involved the skin, the right clavicle, upper part of the sternum, and surrounding structures : the sterno-mastoid muscle is thinned out over the tumour, and is adherent to and implicated by the growth, as also are the internal jugular vein and carotid artery of that side. The tumour has been laid open from the front, and its interior is seen to be soft and shreddy and deeply blood-stained. Microscopical examination showed its structure to be a myxo- sarcoma. Both the oesophagus and trachea are displaced towards the left, and although the walls of both are involved, in neither is the mucous membrane ulcerated. 1892 The patient was a gentleman, aged 08. Up to nine weeks before his death he had always enjoyed good health ; at this date he first noticed a slight swelling on the right side of his neck ; a fortnight later he first consulted a medical man for neuralgia running up the side of N 2