HERNIA, OR PROTRUSIONS, AND OTHER DISPLACEMENTS, ETC. 147 2099a. A piece of Intestine, removed from a hernia. The intestine presents a well- marked stricture, which was situated at a point three inches from the ileo-ca3cal valve. The mesentery is greatly thickened as a result of chronic inflammation. 1885 From a case of strangulated hernia, in which reduction had been effected by taxis. The patient subsequently died from a rupture of the bowel. 2105a. A portion of Jejunum,-of which a part of the circumference was strangulated in one of the crural canals, so constituting a Eichter's hernia. That portion of the circumference which has heen nipped is congested and dark coloured. Its wall has given way immediately above the seat of constriction. 1889 From a woman, aged 69 years, who had suffered for four or five years from a femoral hernia, for wliich she had never worn a truss. Nine days before her admission to the Hospital she was suddenly seized with violent abdominal pain and vomiting. There was complete obstruction without passage of flatus. An operation for relief of the strangulation was performed, but the patient died four days afterwards. See Female Surg-ieal Register, vol. iv. (1889), No. 206. 2109a. A "spur" of small Intestine, removed by an enterotome from a case of strangulated femoral hernia, which could not be returned at the time of the operation owing to the adhesions which the gut had contracted. 1885 From a woman, aged 55, who had been ruptured twenty years. The bowel was laid open April 29th. The enterotome was inserted upon September 6th. The enterotome, with the piece of intestine in its blades, was removed on October 8th. The patient was discharged, ffeces passing per anum, on January 20th. See Female Surgical Registei; vol. iv. (1884), No. 453. 2109b. The sac of a Right Inguinal Hernia, with its contents. Protruding through an operation wound at the neck of the sac is a piece of intestine which has been laid open : it is dark and in a gangrenous condition. The hernia had long been irreducible, and the intestine is adherent to the walls of the sac. 1892 The patient was a man, aged 32, who had had a hernia for ten years. At the operation the intestine in the sac was found gangrenous ; the stricture was divided and a healthy piece pulled down, sutured to the sides of the wound and opened. He did not rally, but gradually sank, and died at the end of two days. See Male Surgical Register, vol. iii. (1889), No. 3715. 2109c. The contents of the sac, together with the ring which formed the constriction, in a case of strangulated umbilical hernia. The intestine is gangrenous and has been laid open ; it, with the neck of the sac and a portion of the abdominal wall, was resected at the time of operation, and the cut ends of tlie intestine sutured together. 1892 See Specimen, Series xviii., No. 2040m. For notes of the case see Female Surgical Register, vol. iii. (1891), No. 1718. 2111a. Hernia of the Vermiform Appendix. The hernia is funicular. The cascum was found after death lying immediately within the neck of the sac, the vermiform appendix extending downwards half-way along the back of the sac. The upper two-thirds of the appendix is devoid of mesentery; the lower third lies free in the sac. The spermatic artery and vein lie upon the back of the sac, exactly opposite the attachment of the vermiform appendix. The vas deferens and its artery are situated a little to the inner side. The tunica vaginalis is very thick, and is puckered over the testis. 1888 HERNIA OF THE C-SICUM. 2111b. The Csecum, together with a portion of the abdominal walls and the inguinal canal and right testis of a child, on whom an operation for the relief of strangulated hernia was performed four days before death. A thin fold of membrane, the plica