SERIES XXXV. DISEASES AID IlfJDUIES OE THE SKH AND ITS APPEUDAG-ES. 2689a. Portion of a Foot, including the first and second toes, with a perforating ulcer ujjon the sole. The ulcer is surrounded by thickened epidermis. A glass rod is inserted into a fistulous track, extending into the metatarso-phalangeal joint of the second toe ; this joint, which was filled with pus, is completely destroyed. The great toe is deformed and retracted, owing to necrosis of the first phalanx. The bones of the fourth and fifth toes were also diseased. 1881 Two months before his admission to the Hospital he noticed a liard lump on the sole, which subsequently ulcerated and discharged. The foot was removed by Symes's amputation. See Pitcairn Ward Booh, vol. vii., p. 13 ; and Patholo(jicul Society's Tra/isaciions, vol. xxxiii., p. 283. 2689b. Portion of a Foot, with an oval ulcer one inch and a half in diameter, situated upon the sole, over the heads of the metatarsal bones. The ulcer is sur- rounded by heaped-up, thickened epidermis ; the edges are clearly cut, and at its base, on the inner side, the carious heads of the third and fourth metatarsal bones are exposed. The great toe had been removed for a similar disease. 1881 2693a. A small, Horn-like Growth, removed from the skin of the lip. It consists of inspissated sebaceous material covered by hardened epithelium. 1883 2693Tb. A Horn-like Growth, which was removed from the Neck of a woman, aged fifty-seven. It began as a wart, and was first noticed four and a half years before removal. The peripheral half had been shed twice, at intervals of eighteen months. The growth is curved, and measures two inches in length. 1890 See St. Bartholomew's Hospital Reports, vol. xxv. (1889), p. 106. Presented by A. G. R. Poulerton, Esq. 2693c. A Cutaneous Horn, which was removed from the side of the neck of a girl, aged eleven. It attained its present size in seven weeks. A small pimple was noticed before the horn began to grow. 1891 A photograph of the growth, before removal, is preserved in Series Ivii., No. 823a. 2694a. A Hand, affected with congenital Elephantiasis. The thick and roughened appearance of the skin is well marked. Over the back of the metacarpal bone of the thumb is an irregular, deep ulcer, the edges of which are raised and very in- durated, and at its base the necrosed metacarpal bone of the thumb is exposed. 1882 From a man, aged 34, who said that the affected hand had always been larger than the other. A year before admission it began to increase in size, and nine weeks before he came under notice, the ulceration over the thumb commenced. See Abernethy Ward Booh, vol. vii., p. 205. Microscopic sections are preserved in Series Iv., No. 508. Q 2