283 GENERAL PATHOLOGY. 3325c. A Section through the Phalanges of a Toe, showing a large fungating mass of now growtli, which springs from the skin covering the plantar surface of the second phalanx. The growth has invaded the deeper tissues, and is beginning to attack the bone. 1889 From a man, aged 49, who first noticed a small spot on the under surface of the last phalanx of his second toe two years before its removal. Six months later the glands in his groin began to be enlarged. See jVale Surgical Register, vol. iii. (1888), No. 1173. 3325d.. The Eing-Finger of a Left Hand, removed by operation on account of an ulcer of two years' duration, situated over the inner and dorsal surfaces of the first phalanx. The ulceration has not extended deeply, but the edges, especially on the dorsum of the finger, are raised. A piece has been removed from the palmar surface for microscopical examination. This showed the ulcer to be an epithelioma. 1890 From a woman, aged 65. She had had multiple warts on her hand (as also had her father) for about fifteen years. One of these ulcerated, would not heal, and finally became malig- nant. There were no enlarged glands. See Female Surgical Register, vol. v. (1890), No. 175. 3325e. The Two Distal Phalanges of a Great Toe, removed by operation on account of an epithelioma involving the greater part of the extensor surface. The growth is ulcerated in the centre, and its edges are raised, and greatly thickened. 1890 CARCINOMA ARISING IN THE BED OF THE THUMB NAIL. 3325f. One-half of a Large Cauliflower-like Tumour, growing from the extremity of the right thumb. The section (longitudinal) shows that the growth is intimately connected with the ungual phalanx, and is more or less globular in shape, with a superficially ulcerated surface. The nail is displaced, and partially protrudes from the tumour above and rather behind its proper position. Microscopical examination showed that the growth is distinctly carcinomatous in character, its structure con- sisting of irregular masses of nucleated cells contained in a meshwork of fibrous tissue. 1893 The patient was a lady, over 80 years of age. The tumour had existed for seven years, but had increased rapidly during the six months previous to its removal ; it had been treated by the injection of methel-violet into the tumour on alternate days for three weeks without effect. There was no glandular enlargement. One year after the operation she was in excel- lent health, without any return of the disease. A drawing of the tumour is preserved in Series Ivii., No. 1260, and microscopical sections in Series Iv., No. 765b. Presented by John Scott, M.D. CHRONIC ULCER WHICH HAS BECOME EPITHELIOMATOUS. 3327a. The specimen consists of the lower half of the right thigh and upper part of the leg. The whole of the popliteal space, and the surrounding skin for some dis- tance, is occupied by a large irregular ulcer, with exuberant and fungating edges. There is a good deal of loss of substance in the centre of the ailected area, but neither the bones nor the main vessels of the limb are exposed. Microscopical examination showed the ulcer to be a squamous-celled epithelioma. 1893 The patient was a man, aged 35. .Twenty-five years previously he had been knocked down and trampled on by a horse, when the skin and subcutaneous tissues were severely damaged. The wound did not heal for seventeen years. It remained healed for one ^nd a half years only, when the scar tissue " broke down," and a chronic ulcer formed ; it had increased slowly since ; there were no enlarged glands, and he made a good recovery. Microscopical sections are preserved in Series Iv., No. 763a. See Male Surgical Register, vol. iv. (1891), No. 990. 3329a. A Horny Tumour, removed from the dorsum of the left hand of a labouring man in whom it had been growing for twelve months. It was central in position, u