230 DISEASES OF THE TESTICLE, ITS COVERINGS, AND OF THE SPERMATIC CORD. the operation the glands did not appear to be infiltrated, and the cord was not thickened. Two months later the left leg swelled, and the iliac glands became enlarged. A mass sub- sequently formed in the pelvis, and after exhibiting signs of intestinal obstruction for ten days, the patient died. Sections are preserved in Series Iv., No. 547. Presented by \V. Harrison Cripps, Esq. SARCOMA OF THE EPIDIDYMIS. 2797a- A Testis and Epididymis, from a cUld, aged four years. The epididymis is occupied by a tumour of au oval shape, about two inches in length and one inch in width ; the cord is continuous with the tumour above, and the testis, which has been cut across, is in no way affected by the new growth. The cut section of the tumour is firm, white and homogeneous, but in places shows a faint fibrillation. A micro- scopic examination shows the structure to be a spindle-celled fibro-sarcoma. 1882 From a boy, aged four years, in whom a swelling had been observed a fortnight before he came under the notice of the surgeon. During the next six weeks the tumour increased in size, by about one-third of its bulk. It caused no pain, and the glands in the groin were not enlarged. There was no family history of syphilis or cancer. The patient made a good recovery after castration. See account of case in the Transactions of the Pathological Society, vol. xxxiii., p. 331. Microscopic sections are preserved in Series Iv., No. 545. Presented by F. S. Edwards, Esq. 2797b. Cystic Sarcoma of the Testis. The place of the testis is occupied by a soft, brown tumour the size of an orange, the cut surface of which shows numerous small cysts, none larger than a split pea, and many of much less size. In one or two places there are small, white specks of cartilage. The epididymis is but little in- creased in size, though evidently diseased. The cord is healthy. Most of the tunica vaginalis is readily separable from the tumour. 1883 From a man, aged 30, who had noticed a swelling of the testis for about eighteen months. No cause could be assigned by the patient, who stated that the tumour had increased in size somewhat rapidly during the week before he came under notice. A microscopical examina- tion shows that the bulk of the tumour is composed of fibrous tissue in various stages of development, some parts being very rich in cells, while in others nothing but fibres can be seen. The little cartilage that is present is of the variety commonly kno\pn as fibro-cartilage. The cysts appear to be formed by dilatation of the tubules of the testis, being lined for the most part by long, columnar epithelial cells, the length of which, in the largest cysts, is notably diminished. Microscopic sections are preserved in Series Iv., No. 549. Presented by F. Swinford Edwards, Esq. 2797c. A Testis, infiltrated with a round-celled sarcomatous growth. In many parts the sarcoma has undergone cystic degeneration. It has been partially injected. 1885 2797d.. A Testicle, affected with Cystic Sarcoma. The new growth apparently pro- ceeds from the rete testis, and extends upwards and anteriorly so as to involve a considerable part of the body of the organ. The lower and anterior portion of the testis, together with the greater part of the epididymis, is free from new growth. The section shows that the tumour consists of soft sarcomatous tissue containing numerous cysts, one of which is large enough to hold three ounces of fluid. Micro- scopically, the growth is a loose fibrous matrix containing numerous round cells. Many of the cysts are lined by columnar epithelium ; the cysts contained a dark blood-stained fluid. 1887 From a man, aged 61, in whom the tumour had been growing for twelve months. There was no history of injury. See Male Surt/ical Register, vol. i. (1886), No, 573. 2797e. A Testicle, with its Epididymis infiltrated with a chondro-cystic sarcoma. The gland is greatly enlarged, measuring four inches in length by two and a half inclies in diameter. The testicular substance is replaced by cysts and nodules of cartilage. Externally, the tumour is hard and lobulated. Microscopically, the