124 DISEASES AKD INJURIES OF THE STOMACH. 1911a. Tlie Stomach of a woman, aged fifty-two, who had chronic gastric ulcers. The omentum and stomach were adherent to the peritoneum in the neighbourhood of the tenth rib on the left side, but there was no general peritonitis. The stomach, which has been laid open, is seen to contain two ulcers, each measuring an inch across. One is situated on the upper and posterior part, and its floor is formed by the pancreas, whilst the other has perforated into the sac of the great omentum. The edges of both ulcers are rounded and thickened. The stomach contained the twenty-eight plum-stones preserved in the next specimen ; there was no history obtainable as to when they were swallowed. 1889 From a woman, aged 52, who was addicted to liquor. For twenty-five years she had symptoms of gastric ulcer. See Mary Ward Booh for 1888, No. 173. 1911b, Twenty-eight Plum-Stones removed after death from the stomach preserved in the preceding specimen. 1889 1913a. A Portion of a Stomach showing an ulcer situated within the pylorus, exactly at the end of the lesser curvature. The ulcer measures a quarter of an inch in diameter, and has perforated into the pericardium. 1888 From a man, aged 58, who had suffered for some time with pain after food, and occasional vomiting, but who had never brought up any blood. At 10 a.m. he was seized with severe abdominal pain, which was relieved by pressure, and he died in the early morning of the following day. See John Ward Booh for 1885, No. 57. DIPHTHERITIC ULCERATION. 1918a. A Stomach from a child who died of diphtheria. At the cardiac orifice the mucous membrane is covered by several small shreds of membrane. 1883 DIPHTHERITIC MEMBRANE IN THE STOMACH. 1918b. The Stomach of a child who died from diphtheria. Nearly the whole of the mucous surface is covered by the fine flaky " false membrane" of diphtheria. When fresh, the mucous membrane was red and acutely inflamed, and the " false membrane " of the usual ashen-grey tint. It had not spread beyond the pylorus. 1891 From a child, aged one and a half years ; tracheotomy had been performed some time previously. At the post-mortem examination the pharynx was affected, but the oesophagus was normal. See Medical Post-Mortem Ecgistcr, vol. xvii., p. 331. 1919a. A piece of the mucous and muscular coats of the stomach, showing a small sessile polypus. 1885 1919b. A portion of a healthy Stomach with the cardiac orifice. A tumour is seen to surround the orifice in such a manner that about one-third of its circumference is formed by a tough whitish growth of a somewhat reniform shape. The tumour is covered by healthy mucous membrane ; it is slightly constricted at its base, and appears to spring from the submucous tissue. The cardiac orifice is not obstructed. Microscopical examination showed that the tumour is a fibro-myoma, consisting of bundles of delicately fibrillated tissue interlacing in places, with long rod-shaped nuclei interposed in the axis of the fibres. 1886 See Transactions of the Pathological Society, vol. xxxv., p. 196. Presented by Percy Kidd, M.U. 1922a. A Carcinomatous Infiltration of the body of the Stomach. The viscus is greatly contracted, its walls being so much thickened that they measure in parts a quarter to half an inch in thickness. When it was laid open it measured eight inches from the oesophagus to the pylorus round the greater curvature, and four