SERIES XXXIV. DISEASES OF THE EAU AM ITS APPEIDA&ES. 2670a. An Epithelioma of the External Ear. 1884 2670b. An Epithelioma, involving the Eight Auricle. The disease occupies a large portion of the external surface of the auricle, including the concha and anti-helix, but it does not penetrate through its whole thickness. The growth forms an irre- gular sprouting mass, which is, in parts, coloured black with blood. Microscopically, the growth is a typical epitheHoma. 1888 From a man, aged 62, who noticed a small pimple on his ear eighteen months before the operation. The growth remained quiescent for fifteen months, and then rapidly increased in size, and began to ulcerate. See 3Iale Surgical Register, vol. ii. (188fi), No. 2692. 2676a. A portion of the Left Temporal Bone, with the Cerebral Membranes, from a case of suppuration of the middle ear. The bone is not necrosed. The small punc- ture was made during hfe for purposes of exploration ; it opens into the groove of the left lateral sinus. The sinus itself was filled with the breaking-down, adherent, and decolourised clot which is suspended over the top of the membranes. This clot extended as far as the Torcula Herophili, and thence into the inferior longitudinal sinus for a distance of two inches. In one part in the centre of the clot there was a distinct circumscribed collection of pus. The left internal jugular vein was filled with a similar clot down to its opening into the innominate vein. 1886 From a boy, aged 13, who was admitted with otorrhcEa following upon an injury to the left ear three months previously. The patient was drowsy but conscious ; he had pain on the left side of the head. The temperature rapidly rose, and he had a sudden attack of dyspnoea. He died with symptoms of pygemia. 2682a. A Soft, Fibrous Polypus, removed from the external auditory meatus. 1884 2682b. A large Aural Polypus, removed by avulsion. Microscopical examination showed that it consisted of inflamed fibrous tissue covered with an epithelial coat. 1886 M., set. 26. The polypus extended as far as the edge of the meatus. It had probably been growing for many years, as the patient had suffered from otorrboea as long as he could re- member. 2685a. An Aural Polypus. 1882 Microscopic examination showed that it was mainly composed of loose fibrillar tissue. Sections are preserved in Series Iv., No. 501. INJURIES OF, AND OPERATIONS UPON, THE EAR. 2686a. Portion of a Temjioral Bone, with an opening made by tlie trejihine above the mastoid process. The operation was performed to allow of the discharge of pus from the tympanum and mastoid cells. 1881 From a girl, aged 12 years, who had had a discharge from the car for nine years. Four days before the operation was performed, she was seized with rigors, followed by coma, and death took place from cerebral meningitis.