ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE DIGESTIVE ORGANS. 343 CONGENITAL DEFICIENCY OF CESOPHAGUS WITH IMPERFORATE RECTUM. 3639b. The Alimentary Canal of a full-term Male Infant, in which there is a con- genital deficiency of the QEsophagus. The pharynx, which is laid open from behind, ends blindly in a pouch of greater calibre than a normal oesophagus at a point one inch below the opening of the larynx. The stomach and intestines are well deve- loped. That part of the oesophagus immediately above the stomach is also well developed, and measures two inches in length. Above this point it is attached to, and communicates directly with, the trachea at the bifurcation. In addition, the rectum is imperforate ; it lies on the right side of the pelvis, and together with the sigmoid flexure and the rest of the large intestine is greatly distended with meconium. The kidneys have been laid open ; the pelves and ureters of both are dilated, due, no doubt, to the pressure of the distended rectum. (^Cf. specimen No. 2373a). 1893 The child lived two days. He was the subject of other congenital deformities, viz., a patent septum veatriculorum and absence of the right radius. See Surgical Post-Mortem, Register, 1890, p. 114. 3640a. The Eectum and Urino-genital Organs of a male infant. The anus is im- perforate. The rectum opens by a small aperture, through which a black bristle has been passed, into the prostatic portion of the urethra immediately upon the left side of the verumontanum. The situation of the anus is marked by a small papilla in front of the upper portion of the bristle. 1886 From a child, aged 23 days. Lumbar colotomy was performed three weeks before death. Presented by Lovell Drage, M.D. 3640b. The Rectum and Urino-genital Organs, from a newly-born female child. The anus is imperforate ; the rectum opens by a large aperture into the posterior wall of the vagina below the situation of the hymen. Through this opening a glass rod has been passed. The other organs are natural. 1886 The two preceding specimens were shown before the Pathological Society during the Session 1886-87. 3647a. Imperforate Anus. 1884 3648a. The Dried Rectum and Sigmoid Flexure from a Girl, aged ten years, who had an imperforate anus. Colotomy had been performed on the left side immediately after birth. The whole intestine is greatly dilated, but below the colotomy wound it is distended into an enormous cul de sac, which, in the fresh condition, held a quart of fluid. At the end of the cul de sac is a small shrivelled portion which represents the connective tissue which intervened between the termination of the intestine and the anus. 1888 [In the wall case in the north side of the top gallery.] Presented by W. Morrant Baker, Esq. *