156 HEENI^, OR PROTRUSIONS, AND OTHER DISPLACEMENTS, ETC. vomiting, for the last two years of her life, during which time the intussusception probably existed ; she ultimately died from exhaustion following gangrene of the foot and leg. Post- mortem it was discovered that she also had two partially calcified fibroid tumours of the uterus wliich pressed slightly on the rectum. Presented by A. M. Jackson, M.D. 2191a. Portion of Intestine from an infant who had recovered from an attack of intussusception. The large intestine has almost entirely disajjpeared, being represented by three inches of the rectum, which has been cut just above the anus, and may be seen at the lower part of the specimen. At the junction of the rectum with the small intestine {i.e., the place where the continuity of the canal has been re-established), the calibre of the gut is slightly narrowed by an annular constriction, the peritoneum at this place being scarred and puckered. Immediately above, the small intestine is thinned and dilated into a large pouch, while two and a half inches higher is a polypus composed of glandular and fibrous structures one inch and a quarter in length. Around this growth the intestine is inflamed, ulcerated, and adherent to the neighbouring mesenteric glands. The rest of the intestine was normal. 1883 The patient was a child, aged 13 months, and was admitted into the Hospital with the history that twelve days previously she had been seized with severe pain in the abdomen, and since then had passed only blood and mucus. On admission, a portion of gangrenous gut was found protruding from the anus and was removed ; three days later another and smaller portion came away, and in another week the patient had completely recovered. Two months later she died of congenital syphilis. The case is described by Mr. Bowlby in the Transactions of the Pathological Society, vol. xxxiv., p. 106. A drawing is also preserved in Series Ivii., No. 477. 219113. The two portions of Intestine alluded to in the descriptions of the preceding specimen. The upper one consists of a part of the csecum and vermiform appendix, the lower apparently of part of the large intestine. 1883 2191c. An Intussusception of the Small Intestine which was removed by operation. The outer layer (intussuscipiens) has been divided longitudinally and hangs below the intussuscepted part, one half of which only is shown. The inner layers are greatly congested and blood-stained, and are much thickened from recent acute inflammation. Above this is hung a small fibrous polypus which shows some calcareous degeneration in its centre ; it is covered by mucous membrane. This was attached to the ileum at a spot about two feet distant from the ileo-ca3cal valve and immediately above the intussusception. 1892 The patient was a woman, aged 30, who was admitted into the Hospital suffering from acute intestinal obstruction. Abdominal section was performed and the intussusception found. As it could not be reduced, the parts were resected, when the polypus was discovered and removed at the same time. She died two days later from peritonitis. See Female Surgical Register, vol. ii. (1891), No. 2092.