193 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE URINARY BLADDER. the orifice of the left ureter the mucous membrane has been extensively destroyed. The kidney contains several large caseating masses, which are mostly situated in the neighbourhood of the pyramids, the cortical portion of the gland being nearly free. The right ureter, which is laid open, presents several ulcers similar to those found in the bladder. 1882 Presented by J. Macready, Esq. 2412C. The Left Kidney and the Bladder, from a case of tubercular disease of the genito-urinary tract. The pelvis of the kidney is dilated and is partially absorbed. The glandular substance appears fatty. In the cortical portion are two or three large cavities which, in the recent condition, were filled with thin pus. The bladder is much hypertrophied and inflamed, and there is some diffuse inflammation about its neck. The prostate is the seat of a tubercular deposit; it is surrounded by an abscess of about the size of a large walnut, which opened into the membranous por- tion of the urethra. 1886 From a man, aged 43, who had sufEered from stricture for twenty-four years ; he died of general tuberculosis. See Male Surgical Register, vol. iii. (1885), No. 162. 2412d. The Bladder and Testes, from a case of tuberculosis of the genito-urinary tract. The mucous membrane of the bladder is ulcerated, whilst the prostate is converted into a large abscess. The vesiculje seminales are greatly enlarged, and the vas deferens is thickened and cord-like. The epididymis of each testicle is also enlarged, and is converted into a caseating mass, and the body of either testis presents numerous patches of tubercle. 1887 From a man, aged 48, who sufEered for two years before his death from tubercular disease of his genito-urinary tract. After eighteen months he presented symptoms of general tuber- culosis. At the autopsy the lungs were found to be a mass of tubercle. The left kidney, with its ureter, is preserved in Series xxviii., No. 2341b. Presented by A. A. Bowlby, Esq. 241 2G. a Urinary Bladder. The mucous membrane covering its floor is extensively and superficially ulcerated. At one spot, situated on the posterior wall, midway between the apex and the trigone, is a warty mass of tissue rising a quarter of an inch above the surrounding mucous membrane. 1889 From a man, aged 25, who had sufEered for two years from irritability of the bladder, and who for two months preceding his death had passed pus in his urine. The bladder was drained through an incision in the perineum with temporary relief, but the patient died of suppression of urine. At the post-mortem examination extensive tubercular disease of both kidneys was found, and there were vomicse in both lungs. Presented by W. Bruce Clarke, Esq. 2417a. A Bladder, containing Multiple Mucous Polypi. The organ is much hyper- trophied and somewhat dilated. The trigone, and the whole wall over an area which extends in all directions from the urethral orifice for a distance of about an inch, is occupied by polypoid growths. The polypi are numerous, and their stalks are, in the majority of cases, slender. In many places the growths are compound, one stalk bearing several tumours. The growths vary in size ; some are no larger than a pea, and closely resemble the small hypertrophied synovial fringes met with in osteo-arthritis, whilst others are as large as the top of the finger or thumb. The two largest polypi (which are suspended below the preparation) were found loose in the bladder. On the left side of the bladder wall, and to a less extent upon its pos- terior surface, are some sessile growths which closely resemble the polypi. In the parts where the sessile growths are found the mucous membrane is ulcerated. The polypi, on section, are soft, fleshy, and gelatinous. Microscopical examination showed