SERIES LIII. CAICTJLI Am OTHER COICRETIOIS FOMED Ilf THE DI&ESTIVE OE&AIfS. 244a. A Salivary Calculus, weighing twenty-two grains, removed from the parotid duct. 1884 244b. A Salivary Calculus, removed from Steno's duct. It measures one inch in length and weighs twelve grains. The patient had only felt pain and noticed a swelling in the region of the parotid gland for three weeks before its removal. 1886 245a. A very Large Salivary Calculus, removed, with the submaxillary gland, from a gentleman, aged fifty-two. The calculus weighs 4.4 grammes, and measures an inch in its long axis, and one and a half inches in circumference at its thickest part. 1887 The submaxillary gland and calculus were removed through an incision in the neck. The presence of the calculus was suspected, but was not discovered until the gland was removed, for it lay deeply embedded in the commencement of Wharton's duct. The patient had been subject to occasional swelling of the submaxillary region for more than forty years, and for some time past there had been permanent enlargement and suppuration of the salivary gland. The gland is preserved in Series xiv., No. 1826a, and a cast of the stone in Series Ivi., No. 117a. Presented by H. T. Butlin, Esq. 245b. A large Salivary Calculus, removed from the duct of the submaxillary gland. The calculus measures seven-eighths of an inch in length by five-eighths of an inch in diameter at its thickest part. 1887 245c. A Salivary Calculus, removed from the left submaxillary gland. The stone is irregularly oval in shape, and lay just at the junction of the gland with its duct. It weighs seven grains. The smaller portion of calculus which lies above it was passed by the same patient four years previously. 1887 The stone was first observed in January, 1886, but the patient experienced no inconvenience from it until April, when it caused pain in eating. At the beginning of May the gland became swollen and painful. The patient was of a gouty family, and was subject to asthma and prurigo. He had once passed a renal calculus consisting of calcium oxalate. Presented by J. Bywater Ward, Esq. 245d.. A small oval Salivary Calculus, weighing one grain. It was removed through an incision in the floor of the mouth from the right duct of Wharton. 1887 The patient was a young gentleman, aged 18, who for two days previously had complained of great pain and swelling in the submaxillary region, occurring a few minutes after eating solid food. For six months he had suilercd from occasional slight pain, and there had been an ill-defined swelling in the submaxillary region. Presented by L. A. Lawrence, Esq.