265 DISEASES OF THE MAMMARY GLAND. SUPPURATION IN A CYSTIC FIBRO ADENOMA. 3146d.. One half of a Cystic Fibro-Adenoma of the Breast, in wliicli suppuration lias occurred in two or three places. The whole breast was in a condition of chronic inflammation. To the naked eye the specimen, when fresh, closely resembled scirrhous carcinoma, but microscopical examination showed the disease to be of an innocent character. 1893 The patient was a woman, aged 44, who had noticed a swelling in her breast for fourteen months. Microscopical sections of the breast are preserved in Series 1., No. ()34a. See also Female Surgical Register, vol. iii. (1891), No. 2116. CYSTIC FIBRO-ADENOMA. 3146e. A Breast, removed by operation on account of Cystic Disease. Near the centre of the gland, and a little above the nipple, is a cyst measuring nearly two inches in diameter. It contains no intra-cystic growths, and is lined by a smooth- walled membrane. It has caused absorption of the neighbouring parts, so that the breast tissue is quite thin beneath it. There are two other small cysts, one above and one below the large one. The nipple is not retracted. 1893 The patienb was a woman, aged 46, who had borne one child. She had noticed the swelling for three months. See Female Surgical Register, vol. i. (1891), No. 931. 3148a. Part of a Breast, containing a large, smooth-walled Cyst, into which protrudes a small growth, composed of glandular and fibrous tissue. 1882 Presented by A. Willett, Esq. ' SERO-CYSTIC DISEASE. 3152a. Portions of a Sero-Cystic Tumour of the Breast. The tumour is hard, and appears gelatinous on section. It contains numerous small cysts, which are filled with a proliferating adenoid tissue. Microscopic examination showed that the growth was a fibro-sarcoma, the stroma being in parts fibrous and in parts myxo- matous, with oval and spindle cells scattered through the matrix. The cysts were lined with spheroidal epithelium. A few ducts and acini of the mammary gland still remained. 1887 From a thin woman, aged 29, the mother of two children. The swelling had been observed for a year ; it grew slowly, and with little pain. See Female Surgical Register, vol. i. (1886), No. 2639*. 315213. A Section through a Large Lobulated Sero-cystic Tumour of the Breast. The cysts are very large, and are filled with a firm growth. Microscojjically, the tumour is a true sero-cystic growth, the intra-cystic tissue being fibro-adenomatous in character. 1889 From a married woman, aged 52, who first noticed a small lump in her breast ten years before the amputation was performed. Eight years previously it began to grow, but during the last three years its increase in size was very rapid. See Female Surgical Register, vol. i. (1888), No. 1020. 3156a. Part of a Breast, containing a Cyst with an intra-cystic growth. The latter is of a dark brown colour with a mottled surface on section, firm to the touch (though when fresh it was rather friable), and not sharply defined from the surrounding tissues. • 1882 From a married v?oman, aged 67, from whose breast a similar tumour, the size of a plover's egg, had been removed one year and eight months previously, having been noticed for seven months. The lymphatic glands were not affected, and there was no family history of import- ance.