See Surijical Post-Mortem Register for 1890, p. 138. SERIES VIII. DISEASES AID IIJURIES OP AETERIES. 1377a. A portion of an internal Carotid Artery, at the lower end of which is a ragged wound extending through half the circumference of the vessel. 1881 It was taken from an insane woman who thrust a clasp-knife through the posterior wall of the pharynx. One blade of the knife had previously been prevented from completely closing, by wrapping a piece of cashmere round it; the point was thus left free, and when the blade was closed, as far as the cashmere permitted, it projected like a barb. The wound in the artery appeared to have been made by the projecting point. Immediately after having com- mitted the act, the woman stated what she had done, but the knife could not be felt even on examination under chloroform. Death took place from hemorrhage seven months later. The knife is preserved in Series li., No. 3383. Presented by Thomas Smith, Esq. 1377b. Part of an Aorta, showing a transverse rent one inch in length immediately below the origin of the innominate artery, just below the reflexion of the pericardium. The vessel is atheromatous and the surrounding tissues blood-stained. The peri- cardium and sheath have been stripped up by the blood along several inches of the vessel. 1884 From an old man who was dead when brought to the Hospital. He had been run over by a heavy cart. 1377c. Portion of an Aorta, the whole of whose coats have been cleanly divided by a transverse wound about one inch in length just below the origin of the left carotid artery. The artery is atheromatous, and the surrounding cellular tissue blood- stained. 1884 GUNSHOT WOUND OF THE AORTA. 1380a. The Heart with its Great Vessels, and the Right Lung, from a man, aged thirty-four years, who was shot with a revolver. The bullet entered the chest about the third left rib, passed through the pericardium immediately below the point where it is reflected upon the aorta, pierced the aorta at the junction of the ascending with the transverse part of the arch, transfixed the superior vena cava, and after pene- trating the whole thickness of the middle lobe of the lung, shattered the ninth right rib, and then fell back into the pleura. The track of the bullet through the aorta, superior vena cava, and lung is marked by a piece of catiieter. The bullet itself is slung by the side of the lung ; its apex is flattened. 1889 From a man whose femoral artery was also lacerated by another shot. The assailant was not many feet oif. Death ensued almost instantaneously. Presented by John Adams, Esq. RUPTURE OF THE AORTA. 1381a- Part of the Aich and of the Thoracic Portion of the Aorta, showing two nearly complete transverse ruptures of the vessel. With the exception of a small amount of superficial connective tissue, all the coats have been completely severed. 1891 The patient was a man, aged 48. who was accidentally run over in the street.