DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE BRAIN AND ITS MEMBRANES. 201 The patient was a woman, aged 38. There was no history of syphilis, nor had she ever suffered from fits. Slie had never given any signs of insanity, had never had any paralysis, and never complained of headache. She was quite well until four days before her death, which occurred from acute double pneumonia. She was quite conscious until six hours before her death. At the post-mortem examination the whole surface of the brain was covered with pus. A microscopical section of the tumour (a fibroma) is preserved in Series Iv., No. 424a. Presented by G. F. Barnes, M.D. 2465b. The portion of the right parietal bone to which tlie Fibroma of the dura mater (see preceding specimen, No. 2465a) was attached. The whole bone is thick, and there is on the inner surface a flattened irregular exostosis, the base of which is deeply grooved by nutrient arteries ; at this point the dura mater was adherent, but not firmly so. 1892 FIBRO-SARCOMA OF THE DURA MATER. 2466a. The Fibro-Sarcoma, weighing, with the attached portion of dura mater, three ounces, was found lying over the left fissure of Eolando. The tumour lay in a bed of thick purulent-looking material in a cavity which it had excavated in the ascend- ing parietal and the ascending frontal convolutions. The parietal bone was eroded on its inner surface. 1886 From a woman, aged 25, who had right hemiplegia thirteen years before her death ; for eleven years she suffered from "fits," said to be of an hysterical character ; she only once completely lost consciousness. Immediately after her first labour she suffered from headache ; her temperature rose to 105° F. She had a series of " fits ;" her pupils dilated, coma set in, and she died five day? after delivery. At the autopsy the uterus was found to be healthy ; there was no pus. The lungs were solid. A small mass of new grovyth was discovered at the left pulmonary apex. Microscopically, the tumour was a fibro-sarcoma. A section is preserved in Series Iv., No. 425. See Transactions of the Pathological Society, vol. xxxvii., p. 12. Presented by L. Drage, Esq. PSAMMOMA OF THE DURA MATER. 2466b. A Fsammoma involving the superior frontal gyrus of the right side. The tumour is sessile, and is attached to the under surface of the dura mater in the neighbourhood of the falx cerebri. The growth involved the right superior frontal gyrus, which was partially absorbed as a result of pressure. 1886 The specimen came from a body brought for dissection, and no further details could be obtained. Microscopically, the tumour consists of a number of small concentric bodies resembling Paccinian corpuscles in transverse section. These bodies lie in a stroma of fibro-sarcomatous tissue : Sections are preserved in Series Iv., No. 42(5. See also Transactions of the Pathological Society, vol. xxxvii., p. 55. ANGIOMA OF THE CEREBRAL MEMBRANES. 2466c, The Angioma forms an oval swelling, situated upon a vein, and lying upon the under surface of the pia mater, covering the angular gyrus. The vessels around the tumour are numerous and enlarged. The tumour itself measures, after pre- servation in spirit, one inch in length by three-quarters of an inch in diameter. It consists of a close plexus of blood-vessels, which have an average diameter of one-eighth of an inch, and are of sufficient size to take a coarse injection of gelatine and carmine. The vessels appear to be derived from the vein upon which they lie, reinforced by branches from the neighbouring veins. . 1888 From a man, aged 20, who suddenly became comatose after returning from work in an apparently healthy condition. He very soon became semi-conscious, with symptoms of left- sided hemiplegia and divergent squint. Two days after the seizure the patient had several attacks of opisthotonus, with spasm of the left limbs ; and he died two days later. At the