239 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE URETHRA AND PENIS. spongy portions of the canal is an abscess cavity, communicating with the urethra and bladder by several openings, extending for some distance on the under surface of the penis, and surrounded by a mass of sloughy tissue. The bladder is thickened and the ureters dilated, glass rods being passed into their vesical orifices. On the right side of the bladder is a large sacculus, capable of holding nearly half a pint, and communicating with the bladder by an orifice about the size of a split pea. There was another and smaller sacculus in the anterior half of the viscus. 1884 The patient was a man, aged 49, who had suffered from stricture of the urethra about four years. Symptoms increased ; three weeks' incontinence. He died with symptoms of pyaemia ; abscess in kidneys. See Colston Ward Booh, vol. vii., p. 371. 2886a. A Portion of the Penis, showing upon the glans the scar of a venereal sore, probably a chancre. 1887 From a dissecting-room subject. 2890a. A Prepuce, and part of the adjoining integument of the penis of a boy, aged fifteen years. The prepuce is greatly enlarged and thickened, the surface is rough and uneven, and the cut section firm, tough and fibrous. The increase in size is due to an overgrowth of the subcutaneous tissue, the epithelium not being thicker than normal. 1882 The swelling was said to have followed a blow which he sustained six months before admission into the Hospital. A microscopical examination showed a great increase of the tissues forming the derma, and, in some places, small areas of inflammation. In addition to these changes, the involuntary muscle fibre was greatly increased in quantity, and could be seen in bundles of varying size in all parts of the sections. The lymphatic spaces did not appear to be of unusual size. See Pitcairn Ward Book, vol. vii., p. 247. 2890b. A Prepuce, removed from a child on account of Phymosis, and of two small Sebaceous Cysts situated on the under surface, and near the orifice of the meatus. The cysts have been emptied and slightly distended ; they contained ordinary sebaceous material. They were noticed soon after birth, and had increased slowly. 1891 2894a. Portion of a Penis. The upper part of the glands and the prepuce are covered by a warty, ulcerated growth of an epitheliomatous nature. 1883 2894b. A similar specimen, but the amount of new growth is much greater than in the preceding preparation. 1883 2902k. A small Bony Plate, which was removed by operation from the dorsum of the penis. 1892 The patient was an elderly gentleman, who could give no cause from injury or previous inflammation for the origin of the specimen. Presented by H. T. Butlin, Esq.