DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE LARYNX AND TRACHEA. 95 1636a. A Larynx with a portion of the Tongue and of the Trachea, from a patient, aged twenty, who died of tubercular phthisis. The whole of the supraglottic portion of the larynx has undergone ulceration, especially upon the left side. The left greater cornu of the hyoid is necrosed, and the epiglottis is completely destroyed. 1886 See Matthew Ward Booh for 1885, No. 1304. 1641a. A Larynx showing ulceration and destruction of the tip of the epiglottis. 1883 From a patient who died of typhoid fever in the fourth week of his illness. 1641b. Larynx from a patient who died of typhoid fever. A small ulcerated opening is seen immediately behind the posterior attachment of the left true vocal cord. A bristle has been passed through the opening into a cavity in which lie the necrosed arytsenoid cartilages. 1884 1641c. The Larynx of a boy, aged fifteen, in which extensive necrosis of the carti- lages has taken place after typhoid fever. The ventricular bands were swollen and the aperture of the glottis was closed. There was no ulceration of the mucous membrane within the trachea, but after the glottis was opened it was found that the whole of the cricoid cartilage was necrosed and lying loose in the abscess, which extended for two inches upwards and downwards along the back and sides of the laiynx. The right arytsenoid cartilage could not be identified, but the left appeared to be normal. 1889 The patient died fourteen days after defervescence. He had suffered from noma on the inside of the right cheek, which was treated by scraping and nitric acid. He also had right parotitis. There was very slight tenderness over the larynx, and he was able to swallow solid food up to the day of his death. He died quite suddenly from laryngeal spasm. A portion of the intestines is preserved in Series xviii., No. 2006a. See Medical Post-Mortem Register, vol. xv., p. 172. PAPILLOMA. 1645a. A Larynx showing a papillomatous growth on the left vocal-cord. The growth was probably congenital. 1888 From a child, aged three years and nine months. He was said to have suffered from repeated attacks of dyspnoea, and his mother noticed that he never cried like other children. Tracheotomy was performed, but the child died cyanosed. The specimen was prepared and presented by J. F. Steedman, Esq. 1650a. The left half of a Larynx, showing a small fibrous polypus attached to the anterior part of the true vocal cord. The tumour was discovered accidentally after death. 1891 EPITHELIOMA. 1653a. The Larynx with a Portion of the Tongue, showing a large epitheliomatous mass, which is situated immediately above the left arytseno-epiglottidean fold. The mass has grown in such a manner as partially to occbide the superior opening of the glottis. The tumour has commenced to ulcerate over its whole surface. There has been considerable oedema of the mucous membrane in the immediate neighbour- hood of the growth. 1889 From a man, aged 45, who was admitted to the Hospital with great enlargement of the cervical glands, which he said had only existed for two months. He died the day after his admission to the Hospital. Secondary epitheliomatous growths were found in the lungs and liver. See Male Surgical Begister, vol. i. (1886), No. 2612. 1653b. A Vertical Section through the Tongue and Larynx, to show an extensive epitheliomatous ulceration at the base of the tongue. The ulcer has excavated a large portion of the base of the tongue, and has entirely destroyed the pharynx and the glottis down to the level of the false vocal cords. 1889