SEKIES L. frEIEEAL PATHOLOG-T. 3216a. Sections of the Fore Feet of a Horse, used upon a farm until it was killed. The hoofs are immensely overgrown in a forward direction, measuring in one eleven and three quarters inches from tip to heel, in the other nine and a quarter inches ; the frog is also considerably overgrown. It resulted from this hypertrophy of the hoof that the plantar surface was carried forwards, and that the horse walked upon the heel. In ^consequence of the alteration of the pressure upon the articular surfaces of the bones of the foot, a certain amount of displacement has taken place, the proximal extremity of the first pastern bone is displaced backwards so that the distal extremity of the cannon bone is thrown forwards. The opposing articulating surfaces of the first and second pastern bones are displaced backwards, so as to form an angle projecting posteriorly. In one foot osseous ankylosis of the articulation has taken place ; in the other, in which the deformity is not so extreme, ankylosis has commenced. These changes appear to be entirely due to the alteration of the positions of the base upon which the weight of the body rested ; for, on account of the growth of the hoof forwards, the weight of the body was transmitted along a line anterior to the axis of the limbs, from which it resulted that the first and second pastern bones pressed backward. Other sections from the same animal are in the Museum of the Koyal College of Surgeons. . 1882 Presented by F. S. Eve, Esq. 3216b. The outer half of a left Foot, with extreme enlargement of the sole from hypertrophy of the skin and subcutaneous tissue, which is thrown into prominent transverse folds, with intervening fissures. The hypertrophy is limited to the sole, and the altered skin projects in ridges around the sides of the foot. The toes are turned upwards, and the skin at their extremities is hypertrophied. 1882 On microscopic examination, the hypertrophy was found to be mainly due to thickening of the corium, which was made up of irregularly arranged bands of dense fibrous tissue, with intervening spaces into which the lymphatics opened. Tlie cuticle was also thicker than normal, the lymphatic channels were not dilated. From a girl, aged 24. The left foot had been hypertrophied from birth, but during the six mouths previous to removal it had increased rapidly in size: two months later the right foot also became affected, and rapidly increased in size up to the time of her death, though at no time was it so large as the left. A large exostosis grew from the left patella, there were several osteophytes on the dura mater, a fibrous epulis grew from the left upper jaw, and a fibrous tumour on the left sclerotic, the uterine mucous membrane was covered Iby a thick villous growth. The patient was rather deficient in intellect, and the right half, of the eiicephalon was smaller than the left. The left leg was amputated by Mr. Macnamara, of the West- minster Hospital, at the patient's request, on account of the difficulty experienced in walking, the result of the abnormal condition of the left foot and patella. The patient died on the second day after the operation. Other specimens from this patient are in the Museum of the Eoyal College of Surgeons. Presented by F. S. Eve, Esq.