216 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE EYE AND ITS APPENDAGES. From a woman, aged 67, who had suffered pain and gradual loss of vision in her right eye for a period of five years. For two months preceding the extirpation of the globe, the patient noticed that her eye protruded a good deal, and that an increased quantity of discharge came from it. A drawing of the patient is preserved in Series Ivii., No. 743, and a section of the growth in Series Iv., No. 484. See Alexandra Ward Booh for 1887, No. 1597. 2588a. An Eye, from which the Cornea has been removed by the operation of abscission. The specimen has been cut through at right angles to the scar of the operation, which is still clearly seen, and shows that the lens and iris have also been removed. The retina has become partially detached, and the space between it and the choroid, together with the cavity or the vitreous, is occupied by a soft homo- geneous materia], probably the remains of decolourised blood-clot. 1891 Presented by Henry Power, Esq. FIBROMA OF THE CORNEA. 2589a. An Eye, with a Fibrous Tumour growing from the anterior surface of the cornea. The growth extended over two-thirds of the cornea, and formed a large projecting tumour, which was covered with a network of blood-vessels. A similar but smaller growth extended from the lower margin of the right cornea to the centre of the pupil. Microscopically, the tumour is a pure fibroma. 1887 From a rickety child, aged five. The tumours were congenital. A section is preserved in Series Iv., No. 485, and a drawing in Series Ivii., No. 742. See Ophthalmic Ward Booh for 1886, No. 2222. 2593a. A Eight Globe, excised on account of an injury. The wound extends across the centre of the cornea, involving the ciliary region on either side, and dividing the sclerotic for some distance. 1889 From a man, aged 23 years, who was working at a circular saw when he was struck by a long splinter of wood, which entered the orbit an inch behind the external canthus. The wound W8,s V-shaped, and the canthus was torn up ; the lower lid was divided, and the globe was horizontally lacerated. Presented by F, O'Kinealy, Esq. 2600a. An Eye, which shows the changes characteristic of old Glaucoma. The optic disc is considerably depressed at its centre, and in its immediate neighbour- hood is a large posterior staphyloma ; in many places the choroidal pigment has been removed and small opaque areas mark the seat of former inflammatory effusions, the lens is cataractous, and the uveal pigment is deficient around its margin. 1882 From an Italian woman, who had suffered from pain in the eyeball at intervals, for many years ; the symptoms had been greatly aggravated for the week previous to her admission into the Hospital, the eye was blind, and intra-ooular tension greatly increased. COREDIALYSIS. 2605a. One-half of an Eyeball, showing a detachment of a portion of the circumference of the iris (coredialysis). 1882 From a man who received a blow on the eye with a piece of wood ; suppuration ensued, and the eyeball was removed. TOTAL POSTERIOR SYNECHIA. 2605b. Section through the Globe of an Eye, showing a total posterior synechia, the results of chronic iritis, due to a traumatic cataract. The anterior chamber is so shallow as to be practically absent. The retina is completely detached, and forms a cone, of which the apex is the entrance of the optic nerve. The vitreous has shrivelled, and is seen as a yellowish mass immediately behind the lens. 1889 From a woman, aged 26, who received an injury to her right eye when she was five years old. The injury resulted in the formation of a cataract. 3ee Alexandra Ward Booh for 1886, Nos, 341 and 502,