161 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE LIVER. on or near the surface. One of the masses situated on the under surface shows distinct umbilication. On section they are seen not to extend deeply into the liver substance. The primary growth occurred at the cardiac end of the stomach, and involved by direct extension the lower end of the oesophagus. There was also some infiltration of the supra-renal capsules and of the neighbouring lymphatic glands. 1892 The patient was a man, aged 35. See Medical Post-Mortem Register, vol. xvii., p. 301. 22.Mdi. A Liver affected with diffuse lympho-sarcoma. The gland is uniformly enlarged, and is nearly white. Its surface is smooth. It weighs forty ounces. There were no isolated growths. 1885 F., £Et. five. In perfect health until six months before death. Tubercle in both lungs. Microscopic examination showed the liver to be infiltrated with small round cells. The glandular destruction was not so great towards the centre as towards the surface, and there was a considerable amount of fibrous tissue in the central part. A section is preserved in Series Iv., No. 311. See Transactions of the Pathological Society, vol. xxxvi. (1885), p. 236. 2217b. A section through a Liver infiltrated with a carcinomatous growth which is undergoing colloid degeneration. The nodules of new growth are numerous. They are circumscribed, and are for the most part situated immediately beneath the capsule of the liver. The surface of the liver is slightly dimpled immediately over the largest mass of cancer. 1888 From a woman, aged 21, who had been ailing for eleven months before her death. She presented all the symptoms of a cerebral tumour, but there was no evidence before death of any hepatic or renal disease. The patient had syphilis. See Mary Ward Booh for 1887, s. v. Maude Pocock. The kidney is preserved in Series xxviii., No. 2390c. NJEVUS OF THE LIVER. 2224a. A Longitudinal Section through a portion of the Right Lobe of a Liver. At the free or inferior border there is a large na3vus ; it was more or less globular, and measures nearly two inches in diameter. 1893 Microscopical sections are preserved in Series Iv., No. 310. See Surgical Post-Mortem Register, 1891, p. 128. 2230a. Portion of a Liver ia which is an old, shrivelled hydatid cyst, rolled in a spiral manner, and containing a very little cretaceous and cheosy material. 1884 The patient died from tumours of the breast and head. 2231a. An unusually complete Hydatid Cyst removed by dissection from the liver of a woman. The contents of the cyst had suppurated. 1886 F., ret. 30. Pain had been felt in the right side of the abdomen for a month previously. An abscess had burst through the navel ten days before the removal of the cyst. See Martha Ward Rook for 1885, No. 195. 2235a. A Portion of the Right Lobe of a Liver in which there are two Hydatid Cysts. The two cysts were found to communicate by means of a small opening, but the hydatid sacs were originally distinct. The upper cyst does not actually lie in the liver substance, the walls of its upper half being formed merely by the capsule of the liver : it now contains only a few shreds as remnants of the hydatid sac ; the lower and smaller space was laid open by an operation a fortnight before death, the decomposing hydatid sac was removed, and the edges of the cyst were stitched to the front abdominal wall. The section shows that the walls of both cysts, after removal of the hydatid sacs, are formed of firm fibrous tissue. 1891 The patient was a girl, aged 16, who had good health until two years before she came under treatment. At her first admission into the Hospital she was tapped, and much relieved