104 DISEASES AND INJURIES OP THE OSSIFYING- SARCOMA. 1728C- The Left Lung infiltrated with an ossifying sarcoma, which was secondary to a growth in the knee. The organ was so firmly hound down to the thoracic wall that it could only be removed by lacerating its structure. The convex surface is studded with numerous circular patches of osteo-sarcoma, the largest o£ which measures half an inch across, whilst the smallest measures no more than one- sixteenth of an inch in diameter. The patches are lightish-brown in colour and appear to originate from the under surface of the pleura ; they do not extend for any distance into the substance of the lung. On the concave surface the new growths are much more extensive, and a portion of the pericardium has become firmly adherent to the pleura. Microscopically the growth consists essentially of a sarcomatous tumour, the cell elements of which are for the most part round. The cells are enclosed by well-defined trabecular, which have the appearance of cancellous bone. No true bone corpuscles are present, however, nor is there any cartilage. The growth is permeated by large blood-vessels. 1889 A drawing of the luug is preserved in Series Ivii., No. 273. A microscopical preparation is preserved in Series Iv., No. 176. The primary growth is preserved in Series i., No. 480a. 1729a. A portion of Lung affected with new growth. The lung is infiltrated round its root by a new growth of carcinomatous type. The growth followed the line of the bronchi, and was continuous with a mass of new growth surrounding the main bronchi. 1886 From a case of cancer of the mediastinum occurring in a man, aged 26. See Medical Post.Mortein Booh, vol. x., p. 53. 1740a- A portion of the Left Lung showing numerous secondary deposits of sar- coma : these are well seen both on the pleural and on the cut surface. The primary disease occurred in the thyroid gland, and was of extremely rapid growth. 1892 The thyroid gland and surrounding parts are preserved in Series xxvi., No. 2318c, to which refer for a history of the case. PARASITES IN THE LUNG. 1745a. A Section of human lung infested with the ova of bilharzia ha?matobia. 1889 From the same case as the genito-urinary organs preserved in Series xxviii.. No. 2393c. The parent worms are preserved in the same Series, No. 2398d. A microscopical section of the lung is preserved in Series Iv., No. 181. Presented by Dr. Mackie. 1746a. Portions of the walls of an Hydatid Cyst which were coughed up from the lungs of a young woman who was supposed to be phthisical. 1885 After expectorating the hydatid membrane she made a good recovery. Presented by S. J. Gee, M.D. 1746b. A portion of Lung in which there is an irregular cavity with a smooth lining membrane caused by a hydatid cyst. The cyst itself lies at the bottom of the bottle, 1890 Presented by F. Cresswell, Esq. HAEMOPTYSIS. 1758a. Portion of the Lower Lobe of a Lung, from a case of phthisis in which there was extensive excavation. An unruptured aneurysm of the pulmonary artery, as big as a small bean, is seen to have been formed in the cavity. The aneurysm contains firm clot. The patient died from exhaustion. 1884 175813. Portion of the Left Lung of a man, aged twenty-five, the subject of phthisis, who succumbed to an attack of tubercular meningitis. The lung was much exca- vated. An unruptured aneurysm, the size of a small pea, is seen in the cavity. It contains dark firm clot, A bristle is passed into the artery. 1884