HERNIA, OR PROTRUSIONS, AND OTHER 152 by an extremely thin hernial sac, to which it is adherent. At tlie point where the sac pierces the linea semilunaris there is a distinct ring, like that seen at the umliiiicus. The mode of formation of this protrusion is quite inexplicable. There is no sign of any previous wound, and the appendices appear so late in foetal life that it could hardly have been due to a developmental cause. 1889 See Transactions of the Pathological Society, vol. xL, p. 15. 2161a. The right side of a Pelvis, with a portion of the Femur, showing a Strangulated Obturator Hernia. The sac is about the size of a plover's egg, and is protruded over the upper edge of the obturator externus muscle, the peritoneum forming it being considerably thickened and in immediate contact above with the ramus of the pubes. The obturator nerve and artery (both cut short) lie on the anterior surface of the hernial protrusion, the former occupying the more external position. A large artery from the internal circumflex winds around the outer side of the sac and anastomoses behind it with a bra,nch from the obturator. A deeply congested portion of the ileum occupies the sac, and, in the recent condition, was slightly adherent to its front wall, there being scarcely any fluid present. The difference in calibre between the intestine above and below the stricture is well marked. The peritoneum at the crural ring is slightly bulged, and the head of the femur is the seat of old rheumatoid arthritis. 1883 From a woman, aged 69, who, without having ever suffered from any previous symptoms, was suddenly seized with severe pain in the abdomen followed by continuous vomiting and constipation. She died exhausted on the eleventh day of her illness. See Faith Ward Book for 1882, vol. i.,p. 734 ; and account by Mr. Bowlby in the Transac- tions of the Pathological Society, vol. xxxiv., p. 109. 2161b. Portion of the left side of the Pelvis, from the same patient as the preceding specimen. An empty hernial sac rather larger than a nut occupies the upper part of the obturator foramen, immediately above the free edge of the obturator externus muscle. The obturator nerve lies directly over the front of the hernial tumour, while the artery divides at the posterior surface into its two main branches, which encircle the neck of the sac. 1883 21631). A portion of the Left Half of the Diaphragm, from a case of diaphragmatic hernia. There is a large oval aperture with rounded edges ; through this aperture the stomach and a large portion of the transverse colon passed during life. At the autopsy the lung was completely hidden by the distended stomach. The heart was much dilated and lay upon the right lung, whilst the left lung was collapsed, and occupied the apex of the thorax ; it was only half the weight of the right lung, and had a depression upon its anterior surface corresponding with the position of the stomach. The intestines, on account of the numerous adhesions which they had contracted, were only removed with difficulty. 1887 From a man, who was admitted to the County Asylum, Stafiord, suffering from acute melancholia. He died of chronic bronchitis and emphysema. Fifteen years before his death, whilst working in a pit, a heavy piece of coal fell upon him, and he was brought to the surface insensible. He was confined to his bed for some mouths, and was subsequently treated for choleraic diarrhoea, and later for Ijronchitis. Presented hj A. Evcrley Taylor, Esq. 2163c. A portion of the Liver, with the Diapliragm. In the middle of the right half of the diaphragm is a ragged oval rent, measuring two and a half inches by one and a half, througli which, in the fresh state, the convex surface of the liver protruded into the right pleural cavity. 1888 From a man, aged 58, who jumpeil from a first-floor window, and died soou after adnii&siou to the Hospital. Sec Surgical PosL.Mortem Book for 1887, p. 74.