65 TENDONS, AND BURS^. 1203c. Contraction of the Palmar Fascia, or Dupuytren's Contraction. The palmar fascia is greatly thickened in the middle line, where it was closely adnerent to the skin. As a result of its contraction, the ring and little fingers are partially flexed at their metacarpo-phalangeal joints. 1888 From the body of an old man brought for dissection. INTERMUSCULAR SYNOVIAL CYSTS. 1205a. The Left Knee-Joint and Calf, showing an Intermuscular Cyst connected with the Joint. The knee-joint has been recently inflamed. On the outer side of the spine of the tibia is a passage along which a rod has been passed through the ligamentum posticum into a cyst. The cyst lies beneath the outer head of the gastrocnemius ; it is pyriform in shape, and is possessed of a distinct cyst-wall. Its upper border is fused with the tendon of origin of the outer head of the gastrocnemius. The plantaris blends with the inner wall of the cyst. Some fibres of the gastrocnemius are spread out over its superficial surface. The cyst is bounded below by the tendinous arch of the soleus. On the outer side of the leg the cyst has burrowed for some distance, dissecting out the peroneal nerve at the point where it turns round the head of the fibula. At this point the skin had sloughed, and the cyst communicated by a sinus with the exterior. Near the plantaris, at the back of the joint, is a well-marked hernia or pouch of the synovial membrane of the knee. 1885 From a man, aged 44, a hawker, who had suffered from pain in his joint for two years before his leg was amputated. See Male Surgical Register, vol. ii. (1885), No. 460, and (1884) No. 3643. 1205b. The Left Knee-Joint and Calf, showing an Intermuscular Synovial Cyst. The joint is completely disorganised, the synovial membrane is thickened and pulpy, and has grown over the articiflar surfaces of the bones. The cartilages are eroded, and their bones are bare in places. At the posterior surface of the joint two openings ai'e seen. The one situated at the back of the internal condyle of the femur immediately above the inner head of the gastrocnemius has received a piece of brown catheter, which passes directly into the cavity of the cyst. It is part of a channel which led from the cyst into the connective tissue surrounding the muscles at the back of the thigh, and it was cut across during amputation. The second aperture is situated in the tendinous inner head of the gastrocnemius, and a black catheter is passed through it ; it puts the cyst into communication with the posterior aspect of the knee-joint. The cyst itself measures four inches by three inches. It appears to have taken the place of the popliteus muscle. 1885 From a female, aged 22, who had suffered four years from trouble with her knee. For further history and remarks on the two preceding cases see Traasaotioiis of the Pathological Society, vol. xxxvi. (1885), p. 337, where No. 1205a is figured in plate xii. (a). Presented by J. Langton Hewer, Esq. 1205c. The head of a Humerus which is inflamed owing to the suppuration of an intermuscular cyst which was situated beneath the teres minor. The remains of the inflamed cyst are seen as a mass of tissue upon the left side of the specimen. 1885 From a male, aged 55. The specimen is described and figured in Transactions of the Pathological Society, vol. xxxvi. (1885). p. 337, and plate xii., fig. b. Drawings are preserved in Series Ivii., Nos. 86b, c, d. Presented by William Morrant Baker, Esq. 1205d. Synovial Fluid from an Intermuscular Cyst in the calf. 1886 From a woman of 40, who had chronic synovitis of the right knee-joint for seven years. Three weeks before the fluid was removed she had swelling of the leg, and then noticed the cyst. It lay to the inner side of the calf, and seemed to be beneath the inner belly of the gastrocnemius. It was ill-defined, oval, measuring about three inches in its vertical diameter