54 INJURIES OF BONES (fRACTURES). 987a. The Two Halves of a Right Patella, which, after fracture, became united by fibrous tissue only, there being, as now shown, about an inch separation between the fragments. There is a considerable amount of bony outgrowth at the outer corners of the upper margin of the lower fragment. 1891 (In Case H.) From the same case as No. 825a, to which refer. 988a. A Section of a Patella in which there has been a Transverse Fracture. The fractured surfaces of the bone are united by a band of ligament, which measures nearly half an inch in thickness. The fragments of bone are in excellent apposition, and they appear to be normal in texture. 1888 From a patient who died shortly after he had been run over. No history of the injury was obtained. The otlier section of the bone, wliich shows the changes occurring in osteo-arthritis, is preserved in Series ii., No. 690a. See Male Sunjlcal Register, vol. ii. (1885), No. 346G. 990a- The Head of the Eight Tibia, which has sustained a Comminuted Fracture with impaction. The lower fragment or shaft of the tibia has been driven upwards and forwards into the head of the bone, whilst a longitudinal fracture runs across the articular surface of the internal tuberosity. This fracture is longitudinal and simple until it reaches the posterior border of the tibia, when it divides into two branches, one running directly backwards, and the other running outwards splits off a small portion of the articular surface of the external tuberosity. The head of the fibula is broken into several pieces. 1888 From a woman, aged 76, who fell downstairs with her leg doubled under her. She died a fortnight after the accident. See Female Surgical Register, vol. v. (1886), No. 2184. 999a. The Lower Portion of the Tibia and Fibula with a part of the Astragalus, showing the results of a badly set Pott's fracture which had occurred many years before death. The articular surface of the astragalus is firmly cemented by bone to the tibia. ' 1885 (In Case H.) From the dissecting-rooms. Presented by J. Berry, Esq. ASTRAGALUS. 1009a. An Astragalus, removed by operation, with a fracture extending transversely across the bone near its posterior margin. Tl)e extremity of the external malleolus, separated by a fi'acture, is attached to the astragalus. 1881 From a man who fell from a scaffold near the top of a house. The astragalus was dis- located forwards and outwards, and projected from a vertical slit in the skin on the outer side of the ankle. After an unsuccessful attempt at reduction, the bone was removed. The patient recovered with a useful limb.— See RaJiere Ward Roiik, vol. vii., p. 345. 1012a. Portion of the Eight Foot, showing a comminuted fracture of the Os Calcis. The fracture is more extensive on the inner than on the outer side of the bone ; the injury has not extended to any of the other bones. 1889 (In Case H.) From a man, aged 58, who was knocked down l)y a horse, and sustained a compound fracture of the right leg in addition to the fracture of the os calcis. See JIale Surgical Register, vol. ii. (1888), No. 2581a. 1016a. Fracture of a Rib Cartilage with considerable displacement of the sternal end. 1882