HERNIA, OR PROTRUSIONS, AND OTHER 150 upper extremity. A hernial sac has been formed by the gradual invagination of the closed upper extremity into the unobliterated portion of the funicular process of the tunica vaginalis. 1885 2140d. An Inguinal Hernia in many respects similar to the foregoing, but differing in the fact that the sac is lobulated, or divided by a partition into two separate portions. 1885 The four preceding specimens were exhibited before the Pathological Society. See Transaotioiu of the Pathological Sociiity, vol. xxxvi. (1885), p. 216. 2140e. The Sac of a Hernia, probably funicular. On its posterior wall is a deep pouch. The fold of serous membrane which forms the inner boundary of the sac contains the spermatic artery and vein, whilst running round the lower end of the sac and up its outer side is a fibrous band. This band is apparently a blood-vessel, and may originally have been a recurrent branch of the spermatic artery, such as is seen in the Anatomical and Physiological Catalogue, Series xx., No. 870a. 1887 2140f. Sac of a Congenital Inguinal Hernia, obtained from a female. The sac occupied the right inguinal canal, and protruded from the external ring. The mouth of the sac is very small, and leads into a long narrow canal which opens into the body of the sac. The end of the sac is pointed, and is united by a thick band of fibrous tissue to the labium. 1889 2143a. A Cyst, which constituted the sac of a hydrocele of a femoral hernia. At its upper part the cyst was in connection with the crural canal by a narrow aperture, which, during life, admitted of the passage of a probe. 1886 F., ret. 44, who had noticed a swelling in her right groin for twelve months. The tumour was tapped six months after its appearance, when clear fluid was evacuated. The swelling gradually returned, and the entire sac was removed six months after it had been tapped. See Female Surgical Register, vol. i. (1885), No. 1973. CONGENITAL UMBILICAL HERNIA. 2156a. The Sac of a Congenital Umbilical Hernia. The tumour appears to be formed by a dilatation of the coverings of that portion of the umbilical cord which was nearest to the body of the child. It is fusiform in shape, and has the main constituents of the funis running as a bundle along its lower border. The wall of the sac consists of a thin and soft membrane, which was so transparent whilst the specimen was fresh, that the coils of intestine could readily be seen within it. The external surface was polished, and closely resembled the outer surface of the cord ; whilst internally the sac is covered with a smooth layer which is apparently derived from the peritoneum. At the apex of the tumour the funis reappears, and has upon its under surface a cyst containing a viscid fluid, A bristle has been passed for a short distance into the umbilical vein, and a green rod has been passed between the sac wall and its peritoneal lining. 1887 From a newly-born child at full time. The labour was quite natural, but a placenta-like mass was attached to the child's abdomen. On closer examination, with the aid of a candle, this mass was found to be a transparent sac containing several coils of small intestines, measuring in all about a foot in length. The sac was situated in the funis at the part nearest to the child's abdomen. The cord was ligatured and divided in the ordinary manner, and an ineffectual attempt was made to get back the bowel through the umbilical aperture. The sac was then carefully opened on a director, and after division of the umbilical ring the intestine was returned into the abdominal cavity. The child survived for three days, dying of peritonitis. A drawing of the specimen, enlarged from a sketcli made before the operation, is preserved in Series Ivii., No. 465. See also Transactions of the Pathological Society, vol. xxxix. Presented by J. J. de Z. Marshall, Esq.