133 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE INTESTINES. 2022a. Portion of Small Intestine obstructed by a new growth. From the jejunum to the ileo-ca-cal valve, the small intestine was thickened and dilated. Above the valve there was some pigmentation ; the orifice of the valve was narrower than natural. On section of the walls of the intestine there was found to be some increase of connective tissue, but no new growth. From the ileo-ca^cal valve to the descending colon the intestine was dilated, and at the commencement of the descending colon it was obstructed by a large ragged new growth which extended round the mucous membrane. Microscopic examination showed that the growth was an angio-sarcoma. 1884 2022b. Portion of the Jejunum constricted by a growth of cancer. The intestine above the constricted part is dilated into a sac, whilst the part below is very small and atrophied. 1884 From a man, aged 47, who had vomited ffecal material for a month, and had suffered from complete constipation for twelve days before his death. Presented by J. Dowson, M.B. 2023a. A Portion of the lower part of the Colon, situated about two feet above the anus. The bowel is so tightly constricted, and its lumen has been so greatly con- tracted by a narrow ring of new growth, that a narrow glass rod can with difficulty be passed along it. The intestine above the constriction is dilated, but its walls are not thickened or infiltrated with the growth, which was found upon microscopical examination to be carcinomatous. 1889 From a woman, aged 73, who had always been constipated. She had a loose stool on the 15th of September after using an. enema. When she was first seen, six days later, she was vomiting stercoraceous matter, and she died without any action of the bowels on October 2'lth. Presented by Alfred Weakley, Esq. 2027a. A Cajcum with portions of the small and large intestines. Immediately above the ileo-ceecal valve the ileum is closely constricted by a cancerous growth in its walls, which, on microscopic examination, proved to be encephaloid carcinoma. 1883 2027b. Cancer of the Ascending Colon, which has ulcerated into the duodenum. The colon has been laid open, and at about two inches from the ileo-csecal valve is a deeply excavated ulcer, involving the whole circumference of the bowel ; its edges are hard and indurated, and had formed, both above and below the ulcerated cavity, a constriction which scarcely allowed the passage of the little finger. The mucous membrane of the caecum and ileo-Cfscal valve is healthy, but immediately above the valve on the peritoneal surface there is a mass of new growth, the size of a large walnut. The duodenum had become adherent to the colon, and at one spot a small fistula, in which a piece of tubing has been placed, had formed. There was no secondary deposit other than that mentioned above, nor were any of the lymphatic glands affected. 1890 A microscopical examination showed the growth to be columnar-celled carcinoma. From a man, aged 39. See Medical Pust-Mortem Register, vol. xiv., p. 377. ILEO-COLOSTOMY FOR CARCINOMA OF THE C^CUM. 2027c. A Cfficum, together with the Ascending, Transverse, and Descending Colon and a portion of the Ileum. At the level of the ileo-ctecal valve the caecum is the seat of malignant disease, which has caused a stricture, for the reHef of which the operation of ileo-colostomy has been performed, i.e., the ileum has been divided at a point situated a few inches from its termination at the ileo-C93cal valve ; the distal