7 DISEASES OF BONES. two inches in diameter, which, in the recent state, was of a livid colour. The whole thickness of the bone is here finely porous from the numerous minute vessels penetrating its substance. A small patch is situated in front of the larger one. (In case E.) 1881 From a female, who died of chronic interstitial nephritis ; there was no evidence of syphilis. 96a. Lower portions of the Radius and Ulna, showing the effects of an injury to the Wrist many years before death. 1885 (In case E.) 101a. Section of a Tibia which has become much thickened and enlarged as a result of Chronic Osteitis. In its middle and lower thirds is the site of a long-standing ulcer. The cut surface shows that the base has undergone much sclerosis, the medullary canal being practically obliterated. The bone is somewhat curved, and was two inches longer than its fellow. 1887 (In case E.) From a man, aged 46, who had an abscess on the right shin thirty-five years before his death ; the abscess was followed by an ulcer, which never properly healed. Shortly before his death the ulcer developed the characteristics of an epitheliomatous growth, and Cp"^den's amputation was performed. See Male Surgical Register, vol. iii. (1887), No. 1740. 106a; A Tibia, the shaft of which, at the junction of the lower and middle thirds, presents an irregular thickening, extending around one-half of the circumference of the bone. 1882 (In Case F.) From a man, aged 40. No history of a previous injury could be obtained.—Sec Pathological Society's Transactions, vol. xxxiii., p. 275. 113a. Sections of a Humerus and a Metatarsal Bone from different Fowls affected with Osteitis. The bones are enlarged, their medullary cavities are filled up, and the sections of tlie bone are throughout of an uniform dense texture, penetrated by numerous small vessels. 1881 Presented by the Eoyal College of Surgeons. 119b. A Femur which has been affected with Rarefying Osteitis. The epiphysis has undergone less change than the diaphysis. New bone has been deposited on the outside of the shaft, 1884 119c. Section of the Lower Portion of a Femur which has undergone a process of Rarefying Osteitis owing to the long-continued presence of a sequestrum. The outer and posterior portion of the bone has undergone partial absorption, due to the invasion of an epitheliomatous ulcer which commenced at the opening of the sinus leading to the sequestrum. 1885 M., aet. 43. The sequestrum appeared to have existed twenty-nine years. See Male Surgical Register, vol. iii. (1884), No. 2713. 132a. Section through the lower part of the Left Tibia and Ankle, showing an abscess in the bone, with some inflammation of the tibio-astragaloid joint. 1885 From a man,-aged 47, who had injured his ankle thirty years previously, and who for ten or twelve years subsequently had sinuses about the part, from which pieces of dead bone came away at different times. Seven years before the amputation the patient suffered from a "gathered ankle," and was laid up for five weeks ; the "gathering " burst, but no dead bone was discharged. In March, 1884, he had rheumatic pains in his ankle, which swelled. On admission to the Bristol Infirmary, the joint was stiff, but not uniformly enlarged. The skin wat adherent, glazed, and pigmented. There was a good deal of hard swelling over the tendo- Achillis. No tenderness existed anywhere above the joint. The abscess may have been secondary to the joint-disease, or else it may have supervened on the long-standing osteitis of the tibia. Presented by W. Dowson, M.B.