See Male Swrgioal Register, vol. ii. (1884:), No. 3054. SERIES XXIX. DISEASES AID IIJTJEIES OF THE TJUIIART BLADDEE,. 2396a. An Enormously Dilated Bladder. The organ measures eight inches in height, and contained, at the time of death, five pints of urine. The walls are well developed, and there are no hernia of the mucous membrane, although, in many places, the muscular bundles are becoming separated as a result of the distension which the bladder has undergone. 1889 The bladder was taken from the body of an inmate of the Banstead Asylum. Ten pints of urine were drawn off the day before the patient died. Presented by W. Gilmore Ellis, Esq. 2398a. A Bladder, from a man, aged fifty-five, who had twice been operated upon for stone ; on the first occasion for a calculus in the urethra, and a second time for a vesical concretion. At a third operation no calculus could be found. On opening the bladder after death, however, the calculus was found to be lying in a cyst, which communicates with the bladder by a small aperture. The opening, in the recent state, would scarcely admit a probe. The calculus had almost ulcerated through the cyst-wall into the peritoneal cavity. 1889 See Tramactions of the Pathological Society, vol. xL, p. 179. 2398b. A Bladder, containing a Calculus encysted behind the Prostate. The organ is much hypertrophied, and its mucous coat is ulcerated in places. Immediately behind the prostate is a small pouch, in which lies a phosphatic calculus. The inter-uretal band of muscular fibres has been torn in such a way as to form a bridge across this part of the bladder. The calculus has been partially broken at one place. 1889 From a man, aged 55, who had twice been operated on for the removal of a calculus. On the first occasion the calculus lay immediately behind a stricture of the urethra. On his third admission to the Hospital he had numerous perineal fistula, and an abscess in the scrotum. Median cystotomy was performed three months before his death. See Male Sm-gical Register, vol. v. (1886), No. 3854*, and vol. v. (1887), No. 1619. 2400a. A Bladder and Prostate Gland. The central, as well as each lateral, lobe of the prostate is enlarged. The bladder is dilated, and its muscular coat is somewhat hypertrophied. The mucous membrane is healthy, but it is depressed into numerous small pits between the muscular fibres. At the upper part of the bladder are two well-defined pouches communicating by separate small openings with the general vesical cavity. They appear to be formed by protrusions of the mucous membrane between the muscular fibres. 1886 See Male Surgical Register, vol. ii. (1885), No. 2055. 2404a. A dilated Bladder, with a large number of small saccules, into which black bristles have been passed. 1885