DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE KIDNEYS, 180 leave a shallow depression iu the kidney substance. Both kidneys have been laid open by a longitudinal incision. On the cut surface it is seen that the cortex is diminished in thickness, and that the apices of the pyramids are rounded off and flattened. The coats of the arteries are thickened, so that the vessels, when cut, remain widely open. The two kidneys together weigh six ounces. 1893 From a mau, aged 56, who also had an enlarged and dilated heart (twenty-two ounces), atheromatous coronary arteries, a " nutmeg " liver, with emphysema of the lungs, and effusion into the right pleura. See Medical Post-Mortem Ref/ister, vol. xx., p. 41. 2336a. A granular contracted Kidney, removed from a man who died after lithotrity. The cortex is rough, and in some places torn by the removal of the capsule, which was very adherent; it is much reduced in thickness, and is occupied by many cysts of various sizes, some of which are filled with calculous material. 1882 PYONEPHROSIS. 2338a. Kidney, enlarged and in an advanced condition of pyonephrosis. The cavi- ties were filled with inspissated pus of the consistency of cream-cheese. 1885 See Martha Ward Book, 1884, No. 329. 2338b. The Bladder and Left Kidney, from a patient who fractured his spine at the junction of the fourth and fifth dorsal vertebrje five months before death. The bladder is considerably liypertrophied, and its mucous membrane is ulcerated. The ureters are dilated. The kidney is inflamed, and contains numerous small abscesses scattered throughout the cortex and pyramids. 1886 M., set. 54. The patient fell sixteen feet from a scaffold across a wall. On admission he was sensible, but had total anesthesia and akinesia in his lower limbs, and in his trunk to the level of the sixth rib. Two months after the accident he had complete atony of the bladder and rectum. See Male Surgical Register, vol. v. (1885), No. 2773* ; and for the condition of the cord, St. BartJiolomew's Hospital Reports, vol. xxi. (1885), pp. 140-143. 2341a. A Tubercular Kidney, from a child who died of phthisis. The organ is much enlarged and its papillse partly destroyed. In the cortex are many abscess-cavities, each lined with a thick, white, pyogenic membrane, and not communicating with the pelvis of the organ. The ureter is much thickened and dilated ; its mucous mem- brane is almost entirely removed, and on its inner surface are many tubercular ulcers. The mucous membrane of the bladder is the seat of a similar ulceration, which, in this situation, seems to be of more recent date. 1884 In the left kidney there was one large patch of tubercle ; otherwise it was of normal size. 2341b. The Left Kidney, from a case of tuberculosis of the genito-urinary tract. The organ is slightly enlarged, and is occupied by numerous abscesses, of which the largest is situated at the upper part of the kidney. In the recent state these abscesses were filled with inspissated pus. The ureter is enlarged and thickened, its mucous surface being much ulcerated. 1887 From a man, aged 48, who suffered for two years before bis death from symptoms of tuber- cular disease of the genito-urinary tract. After eighteen months he presented symptoms of general tuberculosis. At the autopsy the lungs were found to be a mass of tubercle. The bladder, prostate, and testes are preserved in Series xxts., 2412d. Presented by A. A. Bowlby, Esq. 2341c. Section of a Tubercular Kidney. The organ was firmly adherent to the intestines and vertebral column by dense fibrous tissue, which enclosed the renal vessels and surrounded the vena cava. The kidney is filled with soft caseous