DISEASES OF THE THYEOID GLAND. 174 his neck and head ; there was then a firm and tender swelling occupying the position of the right half of the thyroid gland ; it was fixed to the larynx, and increased very rapidly ; a fortnight later dysphagia set in with paralysis of the vocal cord of the right side ; all the symptoms increased with very great rapidity, and he died nine weeks after the swelling was first noticed from exhaustion and pneumonia due to secondary deposits in the lung. A portion of the left lung showing numerous secondary deposits is preserved in Series xi.. No. 17-tOa, and microscopical sections of the tumour in Series Iv., No. 359. 2319a- A Large Tumour of the Thyroid Gland, with the adjacent parts. The tumour is extremely hard and of similar shape to the gland in which it grows, being composed of two lateral lobes of equal size joined by an isthmus. The cut surface is fibrous. Each lobe reaches the level of the hyoid bone above, and of the bifur- cation of the trachea below. They are joined by a broad isthmus, reaching from the cricoid cartilage over the upper half of the trachea. Above, the lobes present a rounded outline, and are quite separable from each other, and their limits are clearly marked. Behind, below, and laterally the limits of the growth are quite undefined, the surrounding parts being infiltrated by the tumour, and not simply pushed aside. Thus the common carotid artery, the external and internal carotids, the internal jugular vein, the pneumogastric, recurrent laryngeal and sympathetic nerves are on each side entirely included in the tumour. The depressor muscles of the hyoid bone are infiltrated and fixed ; the oesopliagus is infiltrated, and so com- pressed an inch and a half below the cricoid cartilage, that the tip of the little finger can barely be passed. The trachea has been compressed both laterally and in front, in the latter situation by the isthmus of the tumour (which has been divided), while its lower portion, which in life occupied the thorax and root of the neck, is infiltrated with new growths on each side, and so narrowed by lateral compression that the little finger cannot be passed. The aorta and all its branches, the innomi- nate veins, with the superior vena cava and the pulmonary artery, are all incorpor- ated in the tumour to a greater or less extent; but although the calibre of these vessels is more or less diminished by pressure, in none of tiiem is there any ulcera- tion or clotting of blood. The apex of the left lung is seen in the specimen closely adherent to, and not separable from, the lowest portion of the growth. The bifurcation of the trachea with botli bronchi is adherent to the tumour, as also are the bronchial lymphatic glands. Neither in the neck nor in the thorax were the latter at all enlarged or otherwise altered. 1884 The specimen is taken from a woman, mother of four children. Three years before her death the neck became fuller, and after laughing she would occasionally have " crowing in- spiration." One year before her death the thyroid appeared to be incorporated with the trachea. It was very hard, quite paialess, and fuller than natural. There was no dysfmoea. The swelling enlarged very slowly, and extended backwards upon each side of the trachea, which appeared to be grasped hj it. A laryngoscopic examination showed that the left vocal cord was paralysed and that the trachea was narrowed to a chink. The patient gradually became worse, her breathing being stridulous and difficult after the slightest exertion, so that on several occasions suffocation appeared to be imminent. She was, however, generally relieved by chloroform inhalations. The tumour in front of the trachea was divided, and considerable temporary benefit was derived from the operation. The patient ultimately died. A section of the tumour is preserved, Series Iv., No. 355. The specimen was shown at the .Pathological Society in December, 1884. 2319b. Foetus, with Large Tumour of the Thyroid Gland. The tumour is of a goitrous nature. Histologically it is a spindle-celled sarcoma, with hypertrophy of the glandular tissue. 1884 The child was born at full time as a face presentation. Presented by S. Cathcart, Esq. 2319c. The Tongue, Larynx, Trachea, and Thyroid Gland, from a case of primary sarcoma of the thyroid. The new growth forms a huge mass which ulcerated