DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS. 143 2065(3.. Five small Papillomata, removed from the rectum by operation. They were due to the irritation caused by the ova of Bilharzia. 1890 From a young Arab who had had similar growths removed previously. Presented by Dr. De Lisle, of Alexandria. 2066a. The lower portion of the Rectum, removed during life from a single lady, aged fifty-one, on account of the growth of an adenoid cancer. The growth, as is seen in the specimen, completely surrounded the bowel, its centre, which was ulcerated, being situated about two and a half inches from the anus ; it has, however, been entirely removed, for the preparation is suspended by the healthy mucous membrane. The peritoneum was clearly seen during the operation, but it did not appear to be affected. The intestinal walls are not greatly thickened, nor is the lumen contracted. 1887 The patient had s'lfEered from troublesome diarrhoea for the last eight months, especially in the forenoon, her motions often being as many as a dozen in the twenty-four hours. Presented by W. Harrison Cripps, Esq. SARCOMA OF THE ANUS. 2066b. A section of a sessile tumour, which occupied the space between the ischial tuberosities and the coccyx in a man, aged sixty-four. The surface of the tumour was ulcerated, and gave rise to considerable discharge. A fistulous track passed through the anterior portion of the growth into the rectum. Microscopically, the growth is an oval-celled sarcoma. The patient only had pain on sitting, there was none on defecation, although the tumour entirely concealed the anus. The inguinal glands were large and tender. 1889 A section is preserved in Series Iv., No. 278. Presented by F, Swinford Edwards, Esq, 2067a, A Bladder, with the extremity of the Rectum. The mucous membrane of the anterior surface of the rectum is thickened and infiltrated with a soft cancerous growth, but it is not ulcerated. Lying between the rectum and the prostate and posterior surface of the bladder are masses of a firmer growth continuous with the tumour in the mucous membrane of the rectum, which, by its protrusion, considerably narrowed the canal of the gut. 1881 The growth consisted, histologically, of closely packed tortuous columns of cells of the epithelial type, the nuclei of which were distinct, but the protoplasm around them scanty and coalesced into a mass. From a middle-aged man, who died from malignant disease of the liver, which weighed thirty-three and a quarter pounds. The growth in the liver presented the same histological character as the rectal growth, and was probably secondary to it. The patient suffered great pain in the rectum, with tenesmus, difficulty in defsecation, and the passage of large quantities of bloody mucus. ADENOID CARCINOMA OF THE RECTUM. 2068a. The Anus and surrounding skin, showing a large mass of adenoid carcinoma, which arises from the lower portion of the Rectum. The growth, consisting of numerous branching processes, with a finely honeycombed appearance, forms a large mass which conceals the anal orifice. It grows mostly from the right side, and has invaded and infiltrated the skin in several places. The entrance to the bowel is on the left side, where a black rubber tube marks the place where fseces passed. The several processes have shrunken very much, and are greatly altered from their appearance during life. 1891 The whole mass was removed by operation, but the patient, a woman, aged 30, died the same night from shock and loss of blood. The tumour had been growing for three years : micro- scopical examination proved it to be one of adenoid carcinoma. A drawing of the growth before removal is preserved in Series Ivii., No. 457. See Female Surgical Register, vol. v. (1890), No. 1174.