DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE STOMACH. 125 and a half inclies at its widest part. The walls are so rigid that the organ maintains its shape when it is placed upi-ight. The tissue near the oesophagus appears to be less infiltrated than the rest, and the disease ceases abruptly at the pyloric orifice. The mucous membrane in the pyloric portion has undergone some superficial ulcera- tion, but there is no definite ulcer in any part of the organ. Microscopic examination shows that the growth consists of a dense connective tissue stroma, containing a few very large epithelial cells. 1887 From a man, aged 55, who had suffered from abdominal pain for sixteen months, and from jaundice for six months previous to his death. See Lulie Wavd Booh for 1885, p. 2055, and Jledical Post-3Iortem Booh, vol. xii., p. 124. 1924a. A Stomach, extremely contracted, and widely infiltrated with cancer. Its wall is thickened, and soft polypus-like or mammillated growths project from its mucous membrane. The surface of these is composed of mucous tissue, and the deeper portion is infiltrated with cancer. 1881 1931a- A Stomach which has been laid open to show a large malignant ulcer situated on the posterior wall of the greater curvature : as a result of the subsequent inflammation the stomach has become adherent to the adjacent portion of the trans- verse colon, into which a fistulous opening, caused by spreading of the ulceration, now leads. Near the pylorus, hui on the gastric mucous membrane, is a small raised nodule, probably malignant in chai'acter. 1892 See 3Iedical Post-Mortem Register, vol, xvi., p. 29. 1946a. A Stomach, the mucous membrane of which is corrugated and blackened from the effects of hydrochloric acid. 1881 From a person who swallowed four or five ounces of strong hydrochloric acid. Death took place in twenty-four hours. 1946b. A Portion of a Stomach fi-om a patient who was poisoned with hydrochloric acid. Three ounces of " spirits of salts" was taken at half-past three in the afternoon, and the patient died at half-past six the next morning. The mucous membrane is blackened and corrugated. 1888 Presented by W. T. Strugnell, Esq, 1946c. A Section through the Stomach of a man who was poisoned with hydrochloric acid. The rugaj on the mucous membrane are well defined, and the whole surface of the stomach is blackened, 1889 From a man, aged 61, who drank an unknown quantity of "spirits of salts" from a jug. He died the same day. The mucous membrane of the oesophagus could be peeled off in strips. The tongue was greatly swollen. The duodenum and the first fifteen feet of the small intes- tines were of a greyish colour. The rest of the ileum and the large intestine were normal. See Johii Ward Booh for 1886, No. 190. 1946d. A Portion of a Stomach with the commencement of the duodenum. The gastric mucous membrane presents two irregular ulcerated patches, the edges of which are undermined, and several smaller ulcers. It is stained a deep black colour in parts. The pylorus is also ulcerated, and its walls are greatly thickened by a whitish growth situated in its submucous and muscular coats. Microscopically, this new growth was found to be due to newly-formed fibrous tissue, which in one part bounded a small abscess situated deeply in the muscular coat of the intestine. The stomach is not enlarged ; it was adherent at one spot to the liver. 1889 From a man, aged 32, who had poisoned himself with zinc chloride and hydrochloric acid five months before his death. See Medical Post-Mortem Register, vol. xiv., p. 308. K 2