DISEASES AND INJURIES OF ARTERIES. 78 tliickness of the aorta, and at both diseased spots the wall of the artery shows a distinct aneurj'smal bulging. A very slight deposit of fibrin may be seen on the endothelium higher up the aorta, which elsewhere was perfectly liealthy. 1883 See Post-mortem Booh, vol ix., p. 238 ; and account of case, by Dr. Moore, in the 1 ransactions of the Pathological Society, vol. xxxiv., p. 71. ABSCESS OPENING INTO AORTA. 1439a The Heart, Arch of the Aorta, and neighbouring parts of a Child, aged four years. At the commencement of the descending aorta there is a small ragged opening on the posterior wall, through which a red glass rod has been passed ; this leads into • a sac measuring one and a half inches in diameter situated in the concavity of the arch of the aorta : on the side near the heart the walls of the sac are well formed, but at the upper and outer side the walls are ragged and indistinct, merging in places into recent blood-clot. The origin of the sac is obscure, but it probably is the remains of an enlarged lymphatic gland which has " broken down " and has sub- sequently communicated with the aorta after ulceration of the intervening tissues. The outer surface of the heart is covered with flaky deposits of recent lymph due to acute pericarditis, which was the cause of death. The endocardium is not affected. 1892 See Medical Post-Mortem Register, vol. xviii., p. 349. 1441a. A portion of the left external Iliac artery. There is a large irregular rent in the vessel leading into an abscess cavity which had formed in the psoas muscle owing to caries of the lumbar vertebrje. 1892 The patient was a young woman, aged 20, who had suffered for a loug time from disease of the spine. At the autopsy the psoas muscle was found to have been entirely destroyed, and its sheath was distended with blood. See Surgical Post-Mortem Register for 1890, p. 92. SARCOMA. 1445a. Portions of an Artery infiltrated by sarcoma. The upper specimen is a part of the axillary artery free from the infiltration ; its lower extremity is discoloured and jagged from the action of the pressure-forceps applied to arrest hajmorrhage. The two lower specimens are portions of the acromio-thoracic axis surrounded by and infiltrated with sarcomatous growth. The vessels, with the exception of the one into which the bristle is passed, are plugged with a firm clot. 1886 From a man, aged 33, who was admitted with a large tumour beneath the pectoral mu.scles. The mass was soft, and manifestly increased in size during the fortnight the patient was under observation. An attempt v^^as made to remove the growth by a free incision along the lower margin of the pcctoralis major, where it presented, through the fat of the axilla, a well- defined outline. That part of the tumour which lay below the vessels was easily removed, but no attempt was made to detach the portion which was found, during the operation, to have grown around those structures. Whilst securing some insignificant arteries, which had been divided in the lower part of the axilla, the hsemorrhage, which up to that stage had been but slight, began to be exceedingly copious. In searching for the seat of the bleeding, it became evident that it proceeded from where the axillary artery should have been, though that vessel could nowhere be found. The hemorrhage was afterwards arrested by means of pressure-forceps. The patient lived a week after the operation, when there was suddenly a violent gush of blood, and before it could be arrested he died. Post-mortem examination showed that the part of the axillary artery involved in the tumour was completely broken up. Sections are preserved in Series I'v., No. 130. See Medico-C'hintTgioal Transactions for 1885, vol. Ixix., p. 157. FUSIFORM ANEURYSM OF A RIGHT AORTIC ARCH. 1450a. A Heart togetlier with the arch of tlie aorta, larynx, trachea, and oesophagus, where, as a congenital abnormality, the right aortic arch has persisted, passing behind tlie trachea and oesophagus to reach the left side of the spinal column. As other abnormalities, the two conmion carotid arteries arise separately, but close together forming the first branches, the right and left subclavian arteries being the