DISEASES OP THE UTERUS. 249 exposed, to wit, the round ligament and a Fallopian tube, which form a band crossing the upper part of the cavity. The abscess cavity measures five and a half by four inches. It has no external openings, its walls being everywhere thick. The left ovary is cystic ; it is situated above, and posterior to, the left cornu of the uterus. 1885 The patient had been ill since the birth of her last child, twenty months previously. At the examination after death, the patient was found to have general peritonitis, lardaceous spleen, and an early stage of suppuration of the left kidney, in addition to the condition of the generative organs above described. For further detailsl see Martha Ward Booh, vol. vi., Case 172, and President Ward Booh, vol. X., p. 118. PROLAPSE or DOUGLAS' POUCH. 2947a. The left half of the Female Pelvic Organs, which have been cut through longitudinally. The uterus is enlarged and greatly elongated, as also is the cervix ; the external os, together with the posterior vaginal wall are prolapsed, and protrude from between the labia. The peritoneal lining of Douglas' pouch is thickened and covered with a layer of lymph and pus : the cervix uteri, and especially tlie bladder, are flattened from before backwards, owing to the pressure of the fluid which collected in the space behind them. The left Fallopian tube is also greatly distended, and contained pus (pyo-salpinx). A portion of the rectum, cut through longitudinally, can be seen at tlie back of the specimen. 1892 From a woman, aged 37, who died of " cancer of the peritoneum." For some months before her death, fluid, limited above by adhesions, had accumulated in the pelvis, for which she was tapped on several occasions ; after each tapping the prolapse disappeared, and did not trouble her until another accumulation caused difficulty in micturition and partial retention of urine. Presented by Joseph Griffiths, M.D. 2950a. An Inverted Uterus, with portions of the Fallopian tubes, removed by the e'craseur. The fundus of the uterus is affected by a myxo-sarcoma. The organ was removed whilst extirpating the malignant growtb. The mass was of a soft, gelatinous, and very vascular consistency. Microscopically, it is a round-celled myxo-sarcoma. 1888 From a woman, aged 48, who had not menstruated for four years. For eight months she had suffered from menorrhagia and ofEensive discharge. She died of acute peritonitis six days after the operation. See Martha Ward Booh for 1887, No. 96. 2951a. The Bladder and Uterus, with part of the vagina, rectum, and sigmoid flexure, from a case of perimetritis. In front is the bladder, bisected vertically and apparently healthy. The orifices of the urethra can be seen, one in each segment. Between the segments is the uterus, with its anterior wall divided vertically, exposing the cavity of the fundus, which is normal. The cavity of the cervix is two and a half times its natural length. The internal os is well marked, and in the middle of the posterior wall of the cervix is a large oval slough, almost perforating it, and forming one of the openings by which the perimetritic effusion, which occupied Douglas's pouch, would have escaped. In the anterior wall of the uterus are several small and nodular myomata. Below the cervix, and in the upper part of the vagina, just posterior and to the left of the external os, is another slough, not so large or so far advanced as the other, and leading into the apex of Douglas's pouch. Immediately behind the vagina is the rectum, which has been laid open, and part of its posterior wall removed. At first, it is in its normal relation to the vagina, but afterwards, it is deflected towards the right cornu of the uterus, being separated from it, and displaced to the right, by the perimetritic effusion. Its calibre is small. About three inches from its lower part, and six to seven inches from the anus, is a large irregular slough, also leading into the cavity of the effusion. The rectum,