46 INJURIES OF BONES (FRACTURBS). of bone along its inner border. On raising the patella, the external condyle is alone seen so long as the leg remains extended. The outer margin of the external condyle is lipped as in chronic osteo-arthritis, and the cartilage covering it is pitted in such a manner as to resemble the pearly concretions seen in oyster-shells. On flexing the leg and raising the patella, the joint moves through an angle of 45°. Its further flexion is restrained by fibrous material in the neighbourhood of the crucial ligaments, resulting from the matting together of the ligamenta miacosa et alaria. The internal condyle then comes into view. Its articular surface is very much smaller than that of the external condyle, since the latter measures three and a half inches in length, whilst the articular surface of the internal condyle is only one and a half inches. In no part does the internal condyle articulate with the patella ; it is covered with smooth articular cartilage. Although the articular surface is small, the condyle is itself hypertrophied. It is united to the shaft of the femur by callus, and at its point of union with this bone there is an abrupt raised line, as if its base had been pushed upwards on to the femui. The condyles lie almost on the same plane, the external being, if anything, rather the lower of the two. The inter-condyloi<l notch is very wide, the increased width being apparently due to a new formation of bone, which has filled up a gap formed by a forcible separation of the condyles as a result of the operation. The inter-condj^loid notch is occupied by synovial membrane. After reflecting the quadriceps extensor tendon the subcrureus muscle is seen to be inserted upon the external surface of the femur in correspondence with the lateral deviation of the patella. The shaft of the femur is bent antero-posteriorly with such a twist that its axis is almost spiral. The femur of the other leg exhibited the well-marked and typical antero-posterior curve of rickets. The lower extremity appears to have undergone the same changes as in the preceding specimen. The inner condyle is very small, and there is a well-marked line of union showing where it was separated at the operation. The inter-condyloid notch is unusually large, and the external condyle appears by comparison to be of a large size. The patella articulated solely with the outer condyle. The patient, a girl of 21, died of puerperal mania in December, 1881. In June, 1883, she was admitted to the Hospital under the care of Mr. Willett. At this time, the knees being placed together, there was an interval of nineteen and a half inches lietween the two internal malleoli. On July 12th, 1883, the left inner condj'le was separated from the bone with a chisel ; during the following month the same operation was performed upon the right leg. On September 7th the malleoli were only separated, with the knees now together, by a space of three to four inches, and a few weeks before death, eighteen months afterwards, the limbs were practically parallel. For further details see a paper by Mr. Willett in the St. Si/rtJiolomew's Iliisiritiil Reports, vol. XX. (1884), p. 69 ; and an account of the joint by Mr. D'Arcy Power in the Trarmtctlons of the PatlioliigiGal Society, vol. xxxvi. (1885), p. 345. Presented by C. Gross, Esq. 807b. A Portion of the Eiglit Femur and Tibia, showing the condition of parts in an unsuccessful case of Macewen's operation of Osteotomy for the relief of Genu Valgum. " 1887 An open osteotomy wound was visible in the inner side of the thigh, whilst on the outer side was a wound with a protruding piece of bone. There was no retained pus. On cutting into the limb, the conditions seen in the specimen were observed. There is no attempt at repair going on in the femur at the seat of fracture. The upper end of the lower fragment is drawn upwards and outwards ; it protruded through the skin on the outer side of the thigh. The lower part of the upper fragment has slipped along the inner surface of the internal condyle until it rests upon its lower surface near the adductor tubercle. A small portion of the extremity of the upper fragment has necrosed, but it has not separated. The section of the femur shows that the epiphysial line is rather more sinuous than usual, but that it is otherwise normal. There is hypertrophy of the inner condyle. The outer tuberosity of the tibia is on a lower level than the inner tuberosity, and it slopes backwards in an unusual manner. The section of the tibia shows that the line of the epiphysial cartilage slopes down- wards beneath the external tuberosity. The shaft of the tibia appears to be normal. 807c. A Portion of the Left Femur and Tibia, from the .«ame case as the preceding, exhibits the repair which has taken jjlace after the performance of Macewen's opera- tion of Osteotom}' for tlie relief of Genu Valgum. 1887 The femur has been divided transversely at a point three and a quarter inches above the knee-joint, and has again united without the intervention of provisional callus. The axis of the lower fragment is not, however, in the same axis as that of the upper portion or shaft of the bone.