DISEASEg AND IWUKIES OF THE LARYNX AND TEACHBA. 93 on the mucous surface of the trachea, causing adhesions to, and subsequently a small perforation into, the innominate artery. A glass rod has been placed in the communication between the trachea and the vessel. 1891 From a child, aged three years. See Medical Post-3Iovtem Register, vol. xvii., p. 323. 1623a- A Larynx, Trachea, and the two Bronchi. There is marked oedema of the glottis, for the relief of which tracheotomy was performed. There is also necrosis of both arytajnoid cartilages and of the cartilages of the trachea, which have been divided in the tracheotomy wound. The mucous membrane over the whole of the trachea and of the bronchi is ulcerated and completely disorganised, and is converted into a rough velvety membrane. There is also the depressed scar of a healed ulcer on the left edge of the epiglottis. 1892 See Medical Post-Mortem Register, vol. xviii., p. 90. LEPROSY OF THE LARYNX. 1624a. The Larynx of a man, aged thirty-four, who for ten years had suffered from Leprosy. The mucous membrane covering the posterior surface of the epiglottis, the true and false vocal cords, and the thyroid cartilage is ulcerated in an unusual manner, leaving a few thin irregular bands, which are undermined owing to the destruction of the submucous tissue. 1892 Six months before the patient's death the larynx became involved, and tracheotomy was performed. See Pathological Society's Tninsactions, vol. xlii., p. 37. SYPHILIS (CONGENITAL). 1630a. Larynx from a boy in whom were found many traces of congenital syphilis. Opposite the seventh and eighth rings of the trachea is a starred cicatrix. The tissues in contact with the trachea at this spot present a circumscribed thickening, about the size of a nut, which, on microscopic examination, was found to consist of fibrous tissue. There was no appearance of a scar on the cutaneous surface. 1882 TUBERCULOSIS. 1631a. The Larynx from a patient who died of tubercular phthisis. Tlie larynx presents the appearance seen in early cases of laryngeal phthisis, viz., some tume- faction and slight thickening of the mucous membrane. 1886 1631b. The Larynx of a child, showing very early tubercular ulceration of the inter-arytsenoid fold, 1886 1631c. The Larynx from a case of tubercular phthisis ; the whole mucous membrane is in a condition of diffuse superficial ulceration. 1886 1631d. The Larynx from a patient who died of tubercular phthisis. The whole mucous membrane is the seat of a process of diffuse ulceration. 1886 1631e. The Larynx and a portion of the Trachea from a patient who died with tubercular phthisis. The epiglottis is thickened by a tubercular inflammation, and has undergone some amount of ulceration at its apex. The right vocal cord is ulcerated, and there is a deep circumscribed ulcer in the subglottic portion of the larynx. 1886 The four preceding specimens were presented by Percy Kidd, M.D. 1631h, The Larynx and Trachea from a case of phthisis. The posterior end of the right vocal cord is destroyed by tubercular ulceration. The mucous membrane covering the posterior portion of the trachea is deeply and extensively ulcerated, the ulceration extending into the left bronchus. 1888 From a girl, aged 18, who, after acute pneumonia, had chronic pulmonary phthisis. See Elizabeth Ward Booh for 1887, No. 14.