DISEASES OF BONES. 21 MYXO-SARCOMA OF THE HUMERUS. 446e. One Half of a Left Humerus which has been sawn through longitudinally in order to show the origin and extent of an Endosteal Sarcoma. The whole shaft, from immediately below the neck to within two inches of the lower extremity, is expanded by the malignant growth, and throughout the greater portion of the bone the compact tissue is thickened. At a point rather below the middle of the shaft, the growth has thinned and expanded the shell of the bone, causing two oval lobulated masses on the anterior surface. The tumour substance is of a jelly-like consistence, and now fills the interior of the bone: when fresh it was of a bright red colour with darker patches here and there. Microscopical examination showed it to be a myxo-sarcoma undergoing chondrification. 1893 The patient was a lady, about 40 years of age, who had noticed a swelling in her arm for rather more than six months. Amputation at the shoulder-joint was performed, from which she made a good recovery. A drawing of the bone, when fresh, is preserved in Series Ivii., No. 46, and Microscopical Sections in Series Iv., No. 37b. Presented by Howard Marsh, Esq. SARCOMA OF THE HUMERUS. 447a. The Eight Arm, consisting of the upper and lower ends of the Humerus, in which an extensive spindle-celled sarcoma has entirely replaced both the shaft of the bone and the greater part of the muscles. The arm was removed by amputation at the shoulder-joint for sarcoma, which had caused a spontaneous fracture. When the limb was examined it was found that the whole of the bone, with the exception of its two articular surfaces covered with cartilage, had dis- appeared, and that the soft fibrous mass now seen had replaced it. Under the microscope this is seen to be a spindle-celled sarcoma. 1891 The arm was removed from the same case as that from which the bones in Specimen 759a (to which refer) were subsequently obtained. Microscopical sections are preserved in Series Iv., No. 37a. Presented by John Langton, Esq. 449a, Section of the Lower End of a Femur in which there is a Sub-Periosteal Sarcoma. The new growth has commenced over the internal condyle, and has spread into the cancellous tissue of the epiphysis. 1882 From a girl, aged 22, in whose knee a swelling had been noticed about a year. A micro- scopic examination showed that the tumour consisted of round and oval cells in a fibrillated matrix. FIBRO-SARCOMA OF THE ULNA INVADING THE SKIN. 451a. A Section through the Right Elbow-Joint, showing a Fibro-Sarcoma springing from the Olecranon, which has invaded the skin and forms an extensive fun gating mass at the elbow. This large outgrowth, which involved more than half of the circumference of the limb, has the appearance of a rapidly-growing epithelioma, and having occurred in an old scar caused by a burn many years previously, it was thought to be of that nature until it had been examined microscopically, when its true character was determined. From the fact that the tumour, though attached to and involving the ulna, has not caused any distension or enlargement of the bone, it is probably periosteal in origin. 1891 See Male Surgical Register, vol. v. (1890), No. 1931. Microscopical sections showed the tumour to consist of spindle and oval cells. 453a. A large Sarcoma involving the Lower End of the left Femur. A longi- tudinal section has been made, and shows that the growth has involved the lower end of the bone so extensively that the condyles and the neighbouring parts can no longer be traced. The shaft of the femur ends abruptly in a dark-coloured mass, which consists largely of irregular cysts. When fresh, the material in these cysts was soft and deeply blood-stained. The mass has grown mostly towards the