ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE LIMBS. 333 up, so that the outer border of the fifth metatarsal bone along its whole extent is in contact with the ground. The muscles appear to be well developed and of normal size. The tendon of the tibialis anticus is unduly prominent, and is shorter than natural ; it raises the anterior annular ligament into a ridge at the point where it passes beneath it. The tendons of the peronei muscles are displaced slightly back- wards from their natural groove on the outer surface of the os calcis. The tendon of the extensor proprius pollicis is somewhat more prominent than usual, as it passes over the dorsum of the foot, but the extensor longus is natural. 1889 From a child, aged four weeks, who had congenital talipes calcaneus of the right foot and a spina bifida. 3509f. The Kiglit Foot and Leg of a child affected with congenital talipes calcaneus. The foot forms an acute angle with the leg, and in the fullest extension cannot be carried beyond a right angle. When the body is placed in a standing position, the heel aloue comes into contact with the ground, the toes being raised, and the sole pointed somewhat forwards. There is, however, no flattening of the back of the os calcis, owing, no doubt, to the fact that the child had never learnt to walk. All the toes are flexed upon themselves at their metatarso-phalangeal joints. On extending the foot, the tendons of the tibialis anticus and extensor proprius pollicis become more tense than the tendon of the extensor longus digitorum. The tendo-achillis is well developed, but the gastrocnemius and soleus muscles are so small that the back of the leg has a flattened or almost concave appearance. The peronei muscles and tendons are large. 1889 From the same patient as the preceding. 3512a. A Wedge-shaped Piece of Bone, removed from the tarsus in a case of con- firmed talipes equino varus. 1884 A cast of the foot before the operation is preserved in No. 85c. 3512b. The Head and a Portion of the Neck of the Right Astragalus, removed for the relief of tahpes equino-varus. The bone has the deformity which is usual in such cases. 1888 From a girl, aged nine, who had congenital talipes equino-varus. The bones were pegged together after the removal of the astragalus, and the patient made a good recovery. See Female Surgical Register, vol. iii. (1888), No. 2440*. CLASS VI.—MALFORMATION FROM DISEASE (NOT CONGENITAL). 3514a. The Right Foot and Leg, affected with talipes equino-varus, cavus, and hammer-toes. The foot is drawn upwards, and is turned somewhat inwards, whilst the toes are bent in a characteristic manner. The extensor muscles appear to be well developed, and have not undergone any degenerative changes. The tendons of the extensor longus digitorum, of the extensor proprius hallucis, and of the tibialis anticus are, however, somewhat tightly stretched, as if these muscles had been shortened. The first phalanx of each toe is drawn towards the dorsum of the foot, whilst the distal phalanges are strongly flexed. In the hallux, as is usual in these cases, the ungual phalanx is alone bent. The tendo-achillis is much shortened, and stands out sharply defined at a considerable distance from the back of the tibia. The heel is dragged irpwards by the shortening of the tendo-achillis, so as to draw the foot into a condition of talipes equinus. The plantar fascia was so thin as to be practically absent, but all the muscles, including the interossei, are well developed. z 2