232 DISEASES OF THE TESTICLE, ITS COVEKINGS, AND OF THE SPERMATIC CORD. the tumour. The tumour was smooth and unattached in front, but it was adherent to a coil of small intestine and mesentery upon the inner side, and had infiltrated the pelvic fascia I:)ehind. Below it was a cord running down into the pelvis, which, on section, contained a structure resembling the vas deferens. Presented by W. L. Woolcombe, Esq. FUNG-ATING SARCOMA OF THE TESTIS. 2797k. A Testis, removed by operation on account of a rapidly-growing sarcoma, which has invaded and infiltrated the whole gland. It has been laid open by a longitudinal incision. The cut surface shows no trace of the original structure, nor can the separation between testis and epididymis be made out. The cord is very distinctly enlarged. The specimen shows, below and behind, a condition rarely seen in malignant disease of the testis, viz., fungation of the tumom* through the skin of the scrotum. 1893 The patient was aged 35. He made a good recovery from the operation, but was re-admitted into the Hospital within six months, with extensive recurrence in the pelvis. See 3Iale Surgical Register, vol. iv. (1892), No. 1239. SCIRRHOUS CARCINOMA. 2804a. Section of a Testis, infiltrated with a firm, white, dense tumour, occupying about equally the gland itself and the epididymis. The cord is much thickened and the tunica vaginalis adherent. 1883 From a man, aged 54, who had noticed a swelling of the testis for one year, A micro- scopical examination showed that the growth was a scirrhous cancer. Microscopic sections are preserved in Series Iv., No. 551. Presented by J. Macready, Esq. 2805a. A Testicle, removed after death, which was found to contain a smooth-walled oval cyst, measuring about an inch in its longest diameter : it lies beneath the tunica albuginea, which is much thickened and partly calcified, and occupies the anterior half of the testis : both the epididymis and tunica vaginalis show signs of chronic inllammation : the vas deferens, still attached to the tunica vaginalis, is normal. The cyst, when opened, contained a clear fluid with abundant cholcsterin crystals. 1891 From a patient, aged 63, who died from carcinoma of the common bile duct. See Medical Post-Mortem Begister, vol. xvi., p. 103. DERMOID CYST OF THE TESTIS. 2810a. The Right Testicle, containing a Dermoid Cyst. The testicle measures two and a quarter inches in length by one and three-quarters of an inch in thickness. The S2)ermatic cord is a little thickened. A black bristle has been passed into the cut end of the healthy vas deferens. The epididymis is present as a flattened band lying between the testis and the spermatic cord. The dermoid tumour occupies the whole of the body of the testis, and is enclosed by the smooth and somewhat thickened tunica vaginalis. The tumour consists of a number of cysts filled with a substance of gelatinous consistence ; the cysts vary in size, from a small pin's-head to one which occupies the whole of the posterior border of the organ. In the recent state this large cyst contained a number of long and delicate hairs, which sprang from the membrane lining the cyst. The rest of the tumour consists of masses of dense fibrous tissue with fat, and in some cases, specks of calcified cartilage. Microscopical examination shows that the gland tissue has entirely disappeared from the body of the testis. The wall of the largest cyst consists of an epidermis and corium. The free edge of the epidermis is turned towards the interior of the cyst. The epidermis consists of a thick layer of stratified epithelium lying above a well-marked rete Mal- pighii. The corium consists of dense connective tissue containing in its deeper