20 DISEASES OF BONES. is periosteal in origin, and under the microscope is seen to be a round-celled sarcoma with much hyaline matrix. The growth involved the iliac veins and extended up in the lumen of the inferior vena cava for several inches. 1890 The vena cava is preserved in Series ix., No. 1606a, ami a microscopical section in Series Iv., No. 61. See Female Surgical Begister, vol. iii. (1888), No. 1900. 444a. A portion of the left Inferior Maxilla, extending from the symphysis to the angle, which was removed by operation on account of a large bony tumour occupying the greater part of the ramus. The tumour has been sawn through longitudinally, and the outer part is suspended above the inner and larger portion : the whole side of the jaw is expanded on the inner as well as on the outer side, and is hard to the touch : microscopical examination showed that it was a iibro-sarcoma. 1892 See Male Surgical Register, vol. v. (1890), No. 2740. 446a. A section of the Left Humerus, showing a Subperiosteal Sarcoma springing from the lower third of the shaft. The growth is well circumscribed and is very firm. It has caused considerable absorption of the posterior wall of the shaft, but as compensatory thickening of the bone has occurred, there is no weakening of the shaft. Microscopically, the growth is a mixed-celled sarcoma, in the substance of which much blood has been extravasated ; some of the cells have degenerated into semi-caseous masses. 1888 From a man, aged 31 years, who had noticed the swelling for two years. A rapid increase iu the size of the growth took place after a fall upon it, which occurred a year before the amputation was performed. A microscopical section is preserved iu Series Iv., No. 37. The scapula from the same case is preserved in the next specimen. See Male Surgical Register, vol. v. (1886), No. 696. 446b. Section through a Scapula, from which a large Sarcoma is growing. The tumour springs from the periosteum covering the infra-spinous fossa ; it has infiltrated and destroyed almost the whole of the infra-spinatus muscle, and it surrounds the outer portion of the clavicle. 1888 From a man, aged 33, whose left humerus had been amputated at the shoulder twenty- seven months previously, on account of a sub-periosteal sarcoma growing in its lower third. There was no recurrence in the scar until three months before the scapula was removed. The patient made a good recover3\ See Male Surgical Register, vol. v. (1888), No. 1610. The humerus is preserved in Series i., No. 416a. 446c. A Section of a Humerus showing a Periosteal Sarcoma. The growth is pyriform in shape, and surrounds the upper two-thirds of the shaft. The whole diaphysis is infiltrated with the growth from the upper epiphysis to within an inch and a half of the lower epiphysis. The upper epiphysis forms a sharp line of demarcation, which limits the growth in its upward direction. 1888 446d. A Section through a Scapula infiltrated with a Sarcoma. The growth involves the subscapular and the upper part of the supra-spinous fossa3. It appears to have completely destroyed the bone as well as the neighbouring muscles. 1888 From a biiiy, aged 14, who had a periosteal sarcoma of the upper two-thirds of the left humerus, which he had noticed for three months. The arm was amputated at the shoulder- joint, but before the wound had healed the scapula became affected. The scapula and an inch of the clavicle were therefore removed, and the patient made a good recovery. The humerus from the same patient is preserved iu the preceding specimen. No. 446c. See Male Surijlcal Register, vol. v. (1888), No. 1019.