SERIES XLIV. DISEASES OE THE TA&ISA AlfD EXTEMAI OMAM OE &EIERATIOIf IS THE EEIALE. 3016a. The Urino-Generative Organs of a female infant, aged seven weeks. The large fibrous sac, which has been divided by a mesial section, is the vagina : it has been enormously distended by puriform fluid owing to an imperforate hymen : the uterus, the cavity of which is also distended, and the walls of which are quite thin, is situated at the upper part of the distended vagina : the bladder is enlarged, and has been completely drawn out of the pelvis, thereby causing great elongation of the urethra : the pressure has also acted on the ureters, causing obstruction to the flow of urine in them, with subsequent distension both of their walls and also of the calyces of both kidneys. 1892 The child was admitted on account of a soft fluctuating swelling presenting at the vulva (see drawing No. 972), which was thought to be possibly a vaginal hernia ; the child became very ill and died ; it was then found that the swelling was due to a distended imperforate hymen, and that the vagina contained pus. Drawings are preserved in Series Ivii., Nos. 972 and 973. See also Female Surgical Beyistey, vol. iii. (1892), No. 488. Presented by W. McAdam Eccles, Esq. HYPERTROPHY OF THE LABIA MAJORA. 3021a. The Labia Majora and Mons Veneris, showing an hypertrophied condition of the skin and subcutaneous tissue, for which the parts were removed. 1881 Presented by the Royal College of Surgeons. 3025a. A portion of a large Fibro-Cellular Tumour, removed from the Labium on the right side. The tumour was nearly spherical in shape and pendulous, being connected with the body by means of a broad pedicle : the skin contained many large vessels and was much thickened : there was little or no lobulation. When recently removed it weighed eight pounds ; it had been growing slowly for twenty years. 189] From a patient, 50 years of age. Presented by Thomas Smith, Esq. 3035b. A Cyst of the Labium, removed by operation. It was situated on the left side, and contained muco-gelatinous material. It had been noticed for three months. 1890 From a woman, aged 45. See Female Surgical Register, vol. iv. (1889), No. 1651,