URINARY CALCULI. 298 From a gentleman, aged 60. Lithotrity had beeji performed seven years previously ; three years later vesical irritation and cystitis set in, which continued until the lithotomy : a good recovery ensued. Presented by John Langton, Esq. FRAGMENTS OF CALCULI REMOVED BY LITHOLAPAXY. 227a. Fragments of a Calculus, removed by Bigelow's operation from a child, aged fifteen months. The fragments together weigh, when dry, one grain. They consist of phosphates and uric acid. 1887 From a child who was admitted with retention of urine. On sounding, a stone was found in the bladder. See Male Surgical Register, vol. iii. (1887), s. v. Andrew Lohoar. 227b. Fragments of a Calculus, removed by Bigelow's operation of litholapaxy from a boy, aged six years, who had complained for one month of hypogastric pain with frequent micturition. The meatus was incised at the time of the operation, which lasted fifty-five minutes. The lithotrite was introduced twice, and the patient was discharged two days afterwards. 1887 See Male Surgical Register, vol. iii. (1887), No. 2086. 227c. Fragments of a Calculus, which weigh seven grains. They were removed by Bigelow's method, from a boy, aged eleven years. The calculus was composed of uric acid with a coating of phosphates. The patient made a good recovery, and was discharged ten days after the operation. 1887 See Male Surgical Register, vol. iii. (1886), No. 3316. 227d. Fragments of a Calculus, removed by Bigelow's operation, and weighing together 2,4.30 grains (five and a half ounces) after drying. They consist prin- cipally of uric acid, with a small amount of magnesia and a trace of calcium phosphate. 1890 The patient was a Hindoo, aged 63, who had suffered from symptoms of stone in the bladder for twelve years. As he refused to allow supra-pubic lithotomy to be performed, the stone was removed by crushing. The operation lasted four hours and a quarter, during which time the lithotrite was introduced seventeen times. He made an excellent recovery, and left the Hospital at Jhaiisi, N.W.P., India, on the seventeenth day after the operation. Three months later he was in good health. Presented by C. P. Lukis, M.D. 228a. A small oval Uric Acid Calculus, which was removed by incision from the urethra of an adult. It was firmly impacted at the anterior attachment of the scrotum to the penis, and could not be extracted by forceps. The stone had caused retention of urine for three days, the bladder at the time of the operation being distended as high as the umbilicus. 1888 Presented by T. Odling, Esq. 228b. A small Urinary Calculus, removed from the urethra of a boy, aged three years, where it so completely blocked the passage as to cause retention of urine. 1890 231a- A Calculus, passed per urethvam by an old man, aged seventy, who had had symptoms of stone in the bladder for two years. 1891 Presented by A. Maude, Esq. 234a. Seven small Uric Acid Calculi, passed at different times per urethram. The calculi are round, with a curiously spiked appearance. They are hollow, and weigh together seven grains. 1887