53 INJURIES OF BONES (PRACTUKES). 949a. Section through the Shaft of a Femur, from a case of Intra-Capsular Fracture of the neck with some impaction. Tlie posterior and lateral portions of the capsule were torn, but the anterior part is entire. There is no bony union, and the fractured surfaces are only held together by a few filaments of fibrous tissue. 1888 From a woman, aged 64, who, a month before her death, fell from some steps a distance of about two feet on to her hip. On admission, the hip and thigh were bruised, the foot and leg were everted, and the limb was powerless. There was no shortening or crepitus. The fracture was treated by keeping the limb at rest with sand-bags. See Female Suygical Eegistcr, vol, ii. (ISSi!), No. 1768. 954a. A "Fracture of the Neck of the Femur, with comminution of the Great Tro- chanter and impaction of the neck of the bone between the fragments. A considerable amount of repair has taken place, though with great displacement of the parts. 1889 (In Case H.) From a man, aged 66 years, who fell upon his hip three weeks before he died. There was well-marked eversion of the limb. Presented by Stephen Paget, Esq. 956a. A Comminuted Fracture of the Neck and Great Trochanter of the left Femur. Tbere has been very considerable displacement of the fragments, but good bony union has resulted. 1886 (In Case H.) From a woman, aged 75, a lunatic, who fell while crossing the room ; she died two months later from causes unconnected with this injury. Presented by G. Mickley, M.D. 959a. The Head and Neck of the Eight Femur, showing an Impacted Extra-Capsular Fracture. The neck of tlie femur has been driven into the great trochanter to such a depth that it is almost completely buried. In the recent specimen the head appeared as if it was directly attached to the great trochanter, and was so driven downwards that only the tip of the finger could be placed between its lower surface and the lesser trochanter. The anterior portion of the great trochanter is split off from the shaft of the femur, and is only united to it by the periosteum. It has been raised to show the impaction of the neck. 1887 From a man, aged 76, who was knocked down in the street by a van. There was some ecchymosis about the right hip ; the limb was everted, and was two inches shorter than its fellow. See Male Surgical Register, vol. ii. (1885), No. 3872. 981. A Portion of a Femur, exhibiting a separation of its shaft from the lower epiphysis, and a fracture extending between the condyles into the knee-joint. The violence of the injury also occasioned the stripping up of the periosteum from the shaft of the femur to the extent of many inches ; the shaft protruded through the muscles on the inner side of the thigh. Parts of the periosteum wliich were stripped from the shaft remained attached to the condyles. A line of new bone is formed on the anterior part of the shaft, along the torn edge of that part of the periosteum which remained attached to the shaft. 1889 From a boy, aged 18, who was going along with a laden truck, when one of the wheels came off. The truck rolled over, and one of the handles struck his thigh. The resulting iniury was diagnosed as a simple oblique fracture of the left femur in its lower third. There was considerable bruising of the knee, with synovitis and effusion into the joint. The leg was put up in a Listen's long splint, with extension by means of a weight. During the night following the injury the leg swelled, and on the next day bullie had formed, and the limb wa.s becoming gangrenous. Nine days after the accident amputation through the thigh was per- formed. On making an examination of the leg, it was found that the lower epiphysis of the femur was separated, whilst the lower end of the shaft was driven outwards and backwards in such a manner as to press upon the artery, vein, and nerve in the popliteal space. The pressure on the vessels was sufficient to prevent the flow of blood in any direction, though it was not sufficient to cause any injury to their coats. The patient made a good recovery. See Kenton Ward Booh, vol. ii., pp. 246 and 267.