DISEASES OF JOINTS. 40 is firmly connected with the bottom of the acetabulum by fibrous bands. The muscles round the joint are somewhat wasted and matted to each other and to the capsule of the joint. 1892 The head of the bone was removed by the anterior incision and the wound closed without drainage : primary union resulted. She died two years subsequently from general tubercu- losis following influenza. For details of the case see Clinical Society's Transactions, vol. xxiii. (1890), p. 98. Presented by C. B. Lockwood, Esq. 732a. A Section of the Bones forming the Knee-Joint, after excision. The bones are united in good position, except that the tibia is slightly displaced backwards. The intermediary cartilages are uninjured. 1881 Presented by the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons. 734a. Portions of the Tibia and Femur from a limb in which the Knee-Joint had been excised some years previously. Complete liony ankylosis has taken place between the two bones, but the tibia is bent backwards so as to be placed almost at right angles with the femur. 1882 Amputation was performed at the patient's request on account of the uselessness of the limb. ERASION OF KNEE-JOINT (ARTHRECTOMY.) 736a. One Half of the structures composing a Left Knee-Joint on which Arthrec- toray had been performed eighteen months previously to the amputation. The specimen has been sawn through longitudinally. The cavity of the joint is obliterated, and the tibia is displaced backwards. The epiphyses have not been resected in any way, and are, with the exception of the tibial, still covered with a layer of cartilage. The patella is fixed to the front of the femoral epiphysis. The section also shows that all the bony structures still contain tubercular material in the cancellous tissue. Portions of small abscess cavities remain, one in front of the femur, about two inches above the patella, another below the condyle of the femur. On the cutaneous surface there is seen the scar of the incision by which the joint was opened. At two points are the openings of small sinuses, which still discharged at the time the amputation was performed. 1893 From a little girl, aged eight, who had suffered from pain in the knee after an injury for three and a half years. Two years later the joint was opened, but as sinuses formed, and the child's health was failing, the limb was removed. Presented by H. G. Cook, Esq. 739a. A Section taken through the neighbourhood of a Knee-Joint which had been excised some time previously. Owing to the uselessness of the limb, amputation through the thigh was performed. At the time of tlie excision an ivory peg was driven through the tibia and femur to retain the bones in position. A portion of the peg can be seen in the centre of the section. It is firmly imbedded in the bone, and has caused no irritation or thickening. 1891 HJEMOPHILIA. 740a. The Knee and Ankle Joints from a Boy who was a " bleeder," and who died, as the result of a cut in the lip, from continuous luTmorrhage. The synovial membrane is coloured by blood which has been effused into the joint cavity, and in the knee there has been fibrous ankylosis between the patella and femur. The patient had frequently had swellings of the joints, sometimes as the result of an injury, sometimes without any definite cause. 1882 Drawings of the joints in their recent condition arc preserved, No. 82. The case is described by Dr. Legg in the 'lransactio?is of the Patholofjical Society, vol. xxxiii., p. 412.