SERIES XIV. See Male Surgical Eegisier, vol, v. (1880), No. 1818. DISEASES OF THE SAIIYART &LAlfDS. EXTIRPATION OF THE SUBMAXILLARY GLAND. 1826a. A Submaxillary Gland removed with a lar<^e submaxillary calculus. There is a deep depression at the upper and inner part of the gland, where the calculus lay. At the bottom of this depression is Wharton's duct, cut across at the point where it leaves the gland. A piece of glass rod has been passed along its lumen into the gland tissue. The gland itself is indurated, but otherwise appears to be healthy. 1888 The gland was removed from a gentleman, aged 52, through an incision in the neck. The presence of the calculus was suspected, but was not discovered until after the removal of the gland. The patient had been subject to occasional swelling of the submaxillary region for more than forty years. There had been permanent enlargement and suppuration of the salivary gland for some time before the operation was performed. The calculus is preserved in Series liii., No. 245a, and a cast of it in Series Ivi., No. 117a. Presented by H. T. Butlin, Esq. PAROTID TUMOUR. 1830a. Section of a similar Tumour removed from the same situation as the preceding specimens. In its centre is a cyst which contained some viscid mucoid fluid. 1882 From a man, aged 38, in whom it had been growing three years. In microscopic structure it consisted of a fibrous tissue mixed with fibro-cartilage, and traces of gland acini. Microscopic sections are preserved in Series Iv., No. 227. 1832a. Section of an Adeno-Sarcoma removed from the parotid gland of a boy, . 1881 It consists of embryonic connective tissue containing tubules of gland tissue lined with small round epithelial cells. Presented by Thomas Smith, Esq. BLOOD CASTS FROM THE (ESOPHAGUS. 1835a. Three Fibrinous Casts, which appear to have been formed in the oesophagus. They measure from three to twelve inches in length, and are nearly an inch in breadth at their thickest part. They are composed of fibrin with blood corpuscles in their meshes. 1887 From a patient, aged 22, who had repeated attacks of uncontrollable cpistaxis. The nare.s were plugged, and the casts were subsequently vomited. He died of septic pneumonia.