SERIES XXXIXa. CATALOGUE OF HISTORICAL INSTRUMENTS. 1. A Case of Dissecting Instruments, formerly belonging to John Abemethy. 1886 2. A Case of Small Trephining Instruments, formerly belonging to John Abernethy. 1886 3. A Case containing six Surgical Needles for use in the ligature of nsevi, formerly belonging to John Abernethy and afterwards to Thomas "Wormald. Two of the needles are of silver with detachable steel points. 1886 4. A pair of Obsolete Artery Forceps with a sliding catch, formerly belonging to John Abernethy. 1886 Presented by A. Willett, Esq. 5. A Clinical Thermometer, used in England during the latter half of the eighteenth century. 1886 Presented by Robert Martin, M.D. 6. A Stethoscope, made according to Lfennec's model. The instrument consists of a wooden cylinder measuring eleven and three-quarters inches in length and one and a quarter in diameter. It is perforated, and is composed of two portions united by a screw. The ear-piece is, unfortunately, missing. 1887 Sir George Burrows wrote of it:—" I am happy to send you a venerable relic of the earliest study of auscultation at St. Bartholomew's Hospital. The old wooden solid cylinder is a facsimile to that used in the Lsennec wards at Paris. It was the property, originally, of Dr. Bond, the Regius Professor of Physic at Cambridge, who, with myself, was Dr. Latham's clerk at St. Bartholomew's Hospital in 1827-28. We were two of the first to study auscultation in the wards there. With progressive improvements in the form of the stethoscope this old wooden tube was left unused on the table of the ward. The nurses appropriated it to their own use to stir up the linen in their washtubs, from which in- glorious service I rescued it, and preserved it as a memento of my earliest studies in auscultation. Presented by the late Sir George Burrows, Bart., D.C.L. 7. A Stethoscope, made according to Lsennec's model. 1887 It formerly belonged to Mr. C. R. Thompson, of Westerham, Kent. Presented by A. Maude, Esq.