142 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS. formed. The rectum below the constriction contains a large number of polypoid growths. The polypi are more or less globose in shape, having slender stalks, but here and there are ribbon-like, ragged, slender, and branched outgrowths, whilst some of the smaller growths are sessile. Above the seat of cancer there are but few to be found, and in the ascending and transverse colon there were not more than three or four, and these were small and rudimentary. The rectum, where it passed over the concavity of the sacrum, was adherent to the neighbouring parietal peritoneum. The large intestine above the stricture was enormously distended by fajces. The peritoneum over the anterior longitudinal muscular band of the cajcum had been split by the excessive stretching. Microscopical examination of the growth surrounding the intestine at the seat of stricture showed that it was an adenoid cancer. The polypi consist of simple glandular tissue, but their bases are continuous with the carcinomatous growth, which has infiltrated the whole thickness of the wall of the rectum. 1888 From a man, aged 20 years. Ten years previously he was taken to the London Hospital for ha3morrhage from the bowel, and was operated upon. For three or four months he remained well, but the bleeding returned, and recurred at intervals during four years. He was subsequently operated on several times with temporary relief. His appearance on admission was that of extreme aniemia. He complained of pain in the rectum, especially on defiBcation. He had an almost constant discharge of bloody mucus from the bowel, and frequent attacks of hemorrhage. He could protrude from the anus at will a polypoid mass the size of a plover's egg. The polypi could be seen by dilating the rectum, and some were removed after passing a ligature round their pedicles. After being thrice discharged and re-admitted, the patient was brought to the Hospital moribund and with signs of peritonitis. A brother and sister of this patient presented themselves for treatment, and they were found to be suttering in exactly the same manner from multiple polypi of the lower bowel. See Male Surgical Begister, vol. ii. (1887), Nos. 183 and 1908, and St. Bartholomew's liosintal Reports, vol. xxiii., pp. 225-227. Sections of the growth are preserved in Scries Iv., Nos. 281 and 282. 2065b. A pedunculated Polypus, removed from the rectum of a younger brother of the patient from whom the preceding preparation was obtained. It resembles in every respect the polypoid growths which have already been described. 1888 From a young man, aged 17 years, whose bowel had been liable to become prolapsed and to bleed as long as he could rememljer. For the last four or five years the patient had suffered pain on going to stool, and had great difficulty in passing his motions. On admission to the Hospital, he was found to be suffering from great anremia. There was no external swelling, but on introducing the finger, the rectum was found full of soft, vascular, and pedunculated polypi, varying in size from a pea to a small cherry. Eight or nine of the largest polypi were ligatured and removed under chloroform. The patient ceased to bleed and gradually recovered his strength. Other polypi were removed at subsequent periods. See St. Bartholomew''s Rosp'ital Reports, vol. xxiii.. Case ii., p. 227. 2065a-i. Six polypi, removed by operation from the Rectum. The largest measures two inches in diameter, and is irregularly nodular on the surface. The smaller polypi are of about the size of a filbert. Microscopically, the structure is that of a simple adenoid polypus. 1892 The patient was a boy, aged 11, who had suffered from hemorrhage for four years. See Male Surgical Register, vol. ii. (_189t)). No. 3177. POLYPUS OF THE RECTUM PRODUCED BY BILHARZIA. 2065c. A small Papilloma of the Rectum, produced by the irritation of Bilharzia ha^matobia. There were other smaller tumours in the rectum. The polypus consists of numerous dense papillae, and its substance is filled with the ova of the parasite. 1880 From a native boy, aged 11 years, who was admitted to the Hospital at Alexandria suffering from severe diarrhoea and hiemorrhage from the rectum, which had lasted for some time. Fxamination of the rectum showed that it was studded with f-mall hard nodules, evidently of bilharzial origin. The tumour was prolapsed whilst straining at stool. It was ligatured and removed. Presented by Dr. Mackie, of Alexandria.