DISEASES AND INJURIES OP THE INTESTINES. 130 peritoneal coat. Although it is only seen with difficulty, the peritoneum over the bowel is much thickened, as was also the parietal layer generally. 1891 The patient was a man, aged 63, an inmate of the Middlesex County Asylum at Banstead. He sviffered from very intractable diarrhoea without any typhoid symptoms for eight weeks before his death. Dr. Claye Shaw writes : " I have found this condition very common in clironic secondary dementia, and in the last stages of general paralysis." Presented by T. Claye Shaw, M.D. 1973a. Portion of a Large Intestine with an irregular superficial ulcer of the mucous membrane, the margins of which are slightly ragged. 1881 From a man who died of erysipelas and diarrhoea. The intestines exhibited the appearances of general follicular catarrh. He had previously had several attacks of dysentery. 1984a. A. Piece of the Large Intestine from a case of dysentery. There is throughout very extensive superficial ulceration of tlie mucous membrane. Numerous small ulcers, which vary considerably in depth, are scattered over the surface of the intestine. One of the ulcers near the head of the colon had perforated, and near the perforation was a small collection of fteces bounded by lymph. 1888 From a woman, aged 31, who had suffered for four months from acute dyseuteric diarrhoea, which confined her to bed. See Faith Ward Booh for 1885, No. 444. ULCERATIVE COLITIS. 1987a. The Colon, showing a condition of colitis polyposa. The whole surface of the colon is covered with numerous small dark blue projections, which are irregular in shape, and some of which appear pedunculated. Between tlie projections the intestinal surface was whitish, thickened, and not quite smooth. Microscopically the mucous membrane covering the actual polypus was comparatively normal, showing numerous crypts of Lieberkiihn, but from the neighbouring surface of the intestine it had disappeared, showing that the disease was the result of antecedent ulceration, leading to scarring, and leaving projections of healthy tissue. 1889 From a domestic servant, aged 20, who had a tubercular history. Twelve months before her death, she first noticed a little blood coming after motions. She was never constipated, nor had she diarrhoea until two mouths before her death. She rapidly became emaciated and died from exhaustion. Cf. No. 2016a. A microscopical preparation is preserved in Series Iv., No. 254. See Hope Ward Booh for 1888, No. 225. 1987b. A specimen of Colitis Polyposa, from the same case as the preceding. 1889 1987c. A Portion of the Transverse and Descending Colon, from a very advanced case of ulcerative colitis. The anterior wall of the transverse colon has completely disappeared for a distance of four inches, whilst for a farther distance of three inches the intestine presents a fenestrated appearance. The mucous membrane which remains is extensively ulcerated. The ulcers are sinuous in outline, and are separated from each other by islets of mucous membrane. The bases of the ulcer are formed by the transverse muscular coat of tlie intestine. The omentum was somewhat adherent to the intestines, as a result of chronic peritonitis. The mucous membrane of the rectum was also extensively ulcerated, but shreds of it stood out in the same manner as in the preceding specimen, to form islets of comparatively healthy tissue. The ulceration extended for a distance of five inches from the anus, and was succeeded by five inches of healthy gut. Above this point the ulceration recommences, and eventually leads to the destruction of the intestinal wall. The small intestine was healthy throughout, and the rest of the viscera were normal. 1889