31 DISEASES OP JOINTS. tlie recent state a quantity of thick greenish lymph occupied the intermuscular planes in the neighbourhood of the diseased bone. In one place, situated imme- diately behind the attachment of the internal crucial ligament, a probe has been passed along a sinus by which the suppurating track communicates with the knee- joint. The joint is unaffected, but a thin layer of coagulated lymph covered the whole of the edges of the articular surfaces. The posterior tibial artery lay in an abscess cavity, and its walls were almost completely ulcerated through for nearly an inch and a half. 1889 From a boy, aged 13, who stated that he had been struck on the back of his right leg six days before his admission to the Hospital. On the day after the injury he had severe pain in the knee. On admission to the Hospital, he was found to have a swollen and red knee-joint, which was very tender. The leg was amputated twenty-three days after the admission of the patient, on accoum of recurrent hsemorrhage from an incision which had been made into it. Drawings of the specimen as it appeared when fresh are preserved in Series Ivii., No. 6i. See Male- Surgical Register, vol. i. (1888), Jfo. 3180. 624a. A number of small Pieces of Necrosed Bone discharged per Urethram by a patient who had disease of his Hip-Joint. The greater number of the fragments are rough and nodulated on one side, smooth on the other. In some cases the smooth surface is spherical, as if it might have formed a portion of the head of the femur. 1886 From a young gentleman, aged 10, who, after an injury at football, was confined to his bed for ten months with symptoms of acute disease of the right hip-joint. During this period a number of pieces of bone ulcerated through the skin over the joint, and the pieces here preserved were discharged by the urethra. Eight years subsequently he became a patient in Pitcairn Ward. See 3Iale Surgical Register, vol. iii. (1886), No. 387. Presented by Dr. H. N. Evans. 624b. Fourteen small Fragments of Bone, which were removed on three separate occasions from the Bladder. The total weight of the fragments is 0.28 grammes. 1888 From a man, aged 27, who had a phosphatic stone in his bladder, which had formed round fragments of bone. The bone had obtained access to the bladder from the hip-joint by a fistulous passage, the result of long-standing hip-disease, connecting the acetabulum with the bladder. The fragments of bone were removed by lithotrity. The bladder is preserved in the following specimen. See 3Iale Siirgical Register, vol. v. (1887), Nos. 1481 and 3674. 624c. The Eight Hip-Joint, with the Bladder and Eight Kidney, from a patient who had a sinus extending from the acetabulum into the bladder. The head and neck of the femur have completely disappeared, as the result of long-standing disease of the hip. A fistulous track (through which a piece of catheter has been passed) traverses the base of the acetabulum, and communicates by a large aperture with the right side of the thickened and inflamed bladder. The right ureter is greatly dilated and thickened at its upper part ; it opens into the bladder after passing for some distance through the dense fibrous tissue which renders the side of the bladder adherent to the inner wall of the pelvis. The kidney is in an advanced condition of pyonephrosis, but has retained its normal size. During life fragments of bone passed through the fistula into the bladder, where they became encrusted with phosphates, giving rise to calculi, which were removed by the operation of lithotrity. 1889 From a man, agud 27, who had a phosphatic stone in his bladder, which had formed round fragments of bone. The bone had obtained access to the bladder from the hip-joint by a flstuloHS passage, the result of long-standing hip disease, connecting the acetabulum with the bladder. The fragments of the bone were removed by lithotrity. The fragments of bone and calculous substance are preserved in Series ii., No. 624b. See Male Surgical Register, vol. v. (1887), Nos. 1481 and 3674.