325 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE AXIS. The skulls are fused in the basi-sphenoidal region, so that the anterior cerebral fossEe are absent. In the thorax are two pairs of lungs situated laterally, one pair in each thoracic cavity. They appear to be normal, and have the ordinary blood supply. There are two hearts, one situated in each thoracic cavity, each being enclosed in its own pericardium. The heart belonging to the left foetus (the monster being looked at from the side of its more developed face) is imperfect. It consists of a single large left ventricle with a complete auricle and a small ill-developed right ventricle with a minute right auricle. The larger ventricle gives off the pulmonary artery and the aorta. From the aorta three large branches arise, the first at the junction of the ascending with the transverse portion. This branch is the right subclavian for the right foetus. The second branch comes off from the transverse portion of the arch. It soon divides into the two common carotids for the right and left sides of this aspect of the monster ; whilst the third branch is given off immediately beyond the ductus arteriosus. It forms the left subclavian artery of the left foetus. The heart lying in the thorax, corresponding with the less-developed face chiefly supplies the right foetus. It is normal, consisting of two ventricles and two auricles, with the aorta and pulmonary artery arising from it as usual. The arch of the aorta gives ofE two branches, of which the first almost immediately divides into a right and left common carotid, whilst the second, given off immediately beyond the point where the recurrent laryngeal nerve winds round the aorta, is the left subclavian artery of the left foetus. In the abdomen the two kidneys are partially fused on either side. The upper portions of the small intestines are united as far as a point twelve inches above the ileo-cfecal valve. This point of union is situated immediately above the persistent omphalo-mesaraic duct. The stomach is single. The spleens and adrenals are double and not fused. Presented by Alfred Robinson, Esq. 3412a. Portions of an "attached foetus." 1885 The mass was attached to the child so that it lay with its long axis in the same direction as that of the child. It contains plenty of cartilage and bone, which appear to have grown from the spinous processes of two of the lumbar vertebriB of the child. When the specimen was fresh, it presented a rounded mass of skin, which appeared to be a head. On each border of this rounded mass was a row of tubercles arranged longitudinally, one set appearing to represent the face, whilst a mass of tissue below the neck might be the lungs. Presented by J. Mason, M.D. CLASS v.—ARREST OF DEVELOPMENT. SUB-CLASS I.—CRANIAL ARREST. ACEPHALOUS AND ACARDIAC MONSTER. 3435a. The monster measures eleven inches in length, and is one of female twins. It was born with much hsemorrhage at the seventh month. The skin, as low as the knees, is remarkably corrugated, and has beneath it a very thick layer of gelatinous connective tissue, which forms a firm pad above the thorax. The monster is phoca- melous, the left hand, consisting of the thumb and two fingers, protrudes through the integument ; it has no bony connection with the thorax. The right hand is chiefly subcutaneous, and only part of two fingers protrude ; a rudimentary clavicle exists beneath the skin, and is in contact with the anterior surface of the scapula. Immediately below the right hand are two small and red masses of tissue, which protrude from a short wide canal leading downwards towards the thorax. The thorax is rudimentary, and is occupied by cellular tissue, in which no traces of lung or heart are found. The diaphragm is rudimentary. The intestine begins with a blind extremity, which is situated to the right of the middle line, and apparently corresponds to a part of the duodenum. The cfficum and vermiform appendix are found in a corresponding position on the left side. The alimentary canal terminates in a large cloaca, which occupies the