GENERAL PATHOLOGY. SPURIOUS ELEPHANTIASIS. 3216c. Seclion of a Leg, which has undergone an unusual hypertrophy of the fibrous tissue in all its parts. It is, therefore, an example of spurious elephantiasis. 1886 From a woman, aged 28, who had never been out of London. The leg began to increase in size three and a half years before admission. The swelling commenced in the big toe, and gradually extended as high as the knee. There was a good deal of eczema. The limb was subsequently amputated. Microscopic examination only showed a general increase in the fibrous tissue of all parts. See Female Surgical Register, vol. iii. (1885), No. 2080. 3216d. A Foot and Lower Part of the Leg, where, as the result of a large chronic ulcer, situated just above the ankle, and which has almost invaded the circumference of the limb, complete lymphatic obstruction has supervened. As a result, the whole foot has immensely increased in size, owing to the very extensive deposit of fibrous tissue in the deeper layers of the skin. The ulcer is now healed, but the scar is of large size, and there has apparently been much loss of substance during the pro- longed suppuration. The whole of the affected skin is considerably pigmented. 1892 The patient was a man, aged 64, who had suffered from the ulcer for sixteen years. As the limb was quite useless, it was amputated. See Male Surgical Register, vol. iv. (1891), No. 1449. 3225a. Portion of the Abdominal Wall, from a case of umbilical hernia, in which the sac was excised and its neck sewn up. 1884 The patient died of peritonitis three days after the operation. The wound in the peritoneum is seen to be almost completely healed. 3226a. Section of the Hand and Forearm of an old woman. She had sustained a very severe burn forty-seven years previously, and the resulting cicatrix had pro- duced the deformity seen in the specimen. The fingers and thumb are bent back- wards, and partially dislocated, the hand is extended at the wrist so that its back nearly touches the dorsal surface of the forearm, and the whole hand is of a claw-like shape. The bones are extremely atrophied, and some of those forming the carpus are very friable. Notwithstanding the amount and duration of the displacement, none of the joints are ankylosed, the wrist, carpal, metacarpal, and those phalangeal joints which have been opened, are still covered with cartilage. The forearm is the seat of a foul ulcer, which first made its appearance six months before amputation was performed. 1882 3226b. Section of the Elbow-joint, from the same patient as the preceding specimen. It shows the articular surface still intact, and not ankylosed. 1882 PLASTIC OPERATION. 3226c. The third Finger of the Eight Hand, upon which a plastic operation, for the cure of contraction, was successfully performed a year before the death of the patient. As a result of an accident, the top of the finger was tightly bound down to within a quarter of an inch of the palm of the hand by a dense and unyielding cicatrix. The cicatrix was dissected out, and a graft, taken from the skin covering the second and third intercostal space, was introduced in its place, the graft being left attached to the thorax by a thick pedicle. A week later, the graft was separated from the trunk, and the wound was found to be healing satisfactorily. ] 888 From a country boy, aged 14, who subsequently died of acute meningitis. For details of the case, with illustrations, see the Lancet, vol. ii. (1881), p. 948. Presented by James Adams, M.D. 3226(i. A Foot, in a condition of Talipes Varus, removed by amputation on account of deformity, caused by the contraction of scar-tissue, following a severe burn of the skin and deeper structures. The scar is seen on the inner side of the foot, just