PLEURA, BRONCHIAL TUBES, AND LUNGS. 105 1758c. Portion of the Left Upper Lobe from a male, aged thirty-nine, who died from a sudden hfemoptysis in the course of [ihthisis, although he was gaining flesh and improving in his general health. There is a tuberculated excavation. In one recess of the cavity is a ruptured aneurysm of the pulmonary artery as large as a small cherry. The point of rupture is a small linear slit. 1884 1758d. Portion of the Left Lung from a case of phthisis, in which death resulted from hfemoptysis. There was much excavation of the pulmonary substance. An aneurysm of the pulmonary artery as big as a pea is seen in the large cavity. A small irregular rent is visible in the aneurysm. A bristle has been passed into the diseased branch of the vessel. 1884 1758G. Portion of the Left Lung from a case of fatal haemoptysis. In a small cavity close to the apex is an aneurysm of the pulmonary artery as large as a filbert. It has ruptured ; its cavity was filled with a clot. Bristles are placed in the two ends of the affected branch. 1884 The five preceding specimens were presented by Percy Kidd, M.D. INJURY. 1759a. A right Lung, which has been penetrated by a pistol bullet. The ball entered the anterior and lower part of the middle lobe at the level of the fifth interspace, and passed obliquely downwards through the lower lobe to the ninth rib, taking its course near the external surface of the lung. Its track is laid open, except at the point where the bullet entered the lower lobe ; this is marked by a portion of glass rod. Just within the aperture of egress from the lung, a small round portion of black cloth was found. The lung tissue around the track of the bullet is contused and infiltrated with blood. 1881 Portions of the rib are preserved, No. 763a, Series iii., where the history of the case is given. 1759b. A Section of the Left Lung, showing the results of a severe contusion without fracture of the ribs. The lower lobe is filled with blood, which has been extravasated into the substance of the organ. 1886 From a patient who was brought dead into the Hospital. See Post-Mortem Register for 1885, p. 184. 1759c. A portion of the Right Lung which is much torn ; the main vessels have not, however, parted, though the root and the lower lobe are almost completely separated. 1888 From a man, aged 23, who was dead when he was brought to the Hospital. There were no external signs of injury, nor was there any fracture of the ribs, costal cartilages, or sternum. The right pleura was filled with blood. See Surgical Pust-jllortem Eegister for 1887, p. 32. 1759d. A Portion of the Left Lung of a patient exhibiting wounds made during aspirations of the pericardium. The lung is collapsed and was adherent to the chest- wall. In the lower lobe is a wound corresponding to an external opening measuring half an inch in length, which was situated in the eighth intercostal space. On a level with the sixth interspace are two punctures, which extend through the whole thickness of the lung-tissue and penetrate the substance of the heart. Two green glass rods have been inserted into the punctures and a red rod into the incision. 1889 From a child, aged two and a half years, who had pericarditis with effusion. The chest was aspirated with a view to discover whether she had pleurisy, and a syringeful of sero-pus was withdrawn. The operation was repeated two days later with the same result, and the diagnosis of pleurisy with effusion was therefore supposed to have been confirmed. It was only at the autopsy, however, that the true source of the sero-pus became evident. The left lung was then found to be collapsed and adherent to the chest-wall and pericardium. The heart had a thick layer of lymph upon it. There was a little fluid in the pericardium, but hardly any in the pleura. See Mary Ward Book for 1887, No. 7.