49 INJURIES OF BONES (fRACTUEES). upwards : a chronic ulcer formed over the seat of fracture, as a result of which considerable loss of substance has occurred : there is a slight bulging of the upper two-thirds of the bone towards the middle line of the body. The fibula was broken near its upper end : here also the lower fragment is dis- placed outwards and upwards, but to a less extent than the tibia ; this gives rise to an unusual length and prominence of the internal malleolus. 1891 (In Case H.) From a man, aged 49 years, who broke liis leg while at sea, and who did not come under medical treatment until ten years after the accident. In addition to the large chronic ulcer referred to, which showed no signs of healing under treatment by rest in the Hospital, the patella (see Specimen No. 987a) had been fractured at the time of the accident: the fragments were now separated by about an inch of fibrous tissue, rendering the limb still further useless. Amputation just above the knee was therefore performed. See Male Surgical Register, vol. iii. (1890), No. 545. 846a- A very Oblique Fracture through the Shaft of the Humerus, which had remained long un-united ; the fractured surfaces are rounded and connected only by some ligamentous and atrophied muscular tissues. 1881 846b. A Humerus with an Un-united Fracture at the junction of the middle and lower thirds. The broken ends are rounded, the lower fragment being drawn up behind the upper, and separated from it by a small mass of tough degenerate muscle. The fragments are enclosed in a firm, fibrous capsule, which cannot be separated from the surrounding muscle. 1884 From a man whose arm had been broken about ten years previously. Notwithstanding the un-united fracture, the limb was a useful one. 854a. A Section of a Tibia in which there is an Un-united Fracture of the bone at the junction of the upper wiih the middle third. The situation of the fracture is marked by a row of black bristles. A periosteal sarcoma springs from the bone at the point of fracture, and extends outwards into the suiTounding tissue, and inwards along the medullary canal, absorbing in its growth one side of the wall of the bone. The lower fragment of the tibia is displaced inwards and slightly forwards. 1889 From a man, aged 37 years, whose tibia was fractured in the upper third by a kick eight months before amputation through the thigh was performed. The new growth was observed four months after the injury in the form of three small lumps, situated one below the other on the outer side of the tibia, at the level of the fracture. One uncle died of cancer of the lip, which was said to have followed on a blow. See Male Surgical Register, vol. ii. (1889), No. 521. UN-UNITED FRACTURE OF TIBIA. 858a. The Left Foot and Lower Fart of the Leg of a child, showing an Un-united Fracture of the Tibia at about the middle of the bone. The upper fragment is well grown, and its broken end is enlarged and thickened by a fair amount of callus. The lower end is tapering and atrophied to half its proper size. The fibula has also been broken, but has united firmly ; its broken ends have become displaced inwards behind the tibia, and project half an inch behind its inner margin ; in consequence, the fibula has lifted the posterior tibial artery and nerve away from the tibia. This disturbance in the blood-supjjly is possibly one of the causes of the non-union. 1892 The patient was a little girl, aged two and a half years. Three wiring operations had been done without effect. Amputation was then performed. Presented by C. B. Lockwood, Esq. 874a. The Lower end of the Tibia, including nearly the whole of its Articular Surface, which separated by exfoliation in a case of Compound Fracture. (In Case H.) A. 113. 1888 Presented by R. S. Eyles, Esq. E