DISPLACEMENTS OF THE INTBSTINAL CANAL AND OMENTUM. 151 2156b. A portion of the anterior abdominal wall, showing an Umbilical Hernia. The hernia consists of a mass of subperitoneal fat, which passes through a circular aperture in the linea alba. The peritoneum is not protruded, and there is no true hernia. 1889 From a man, aged 65, who died from peritonitis after the tumour had been explored. See Male Surgical Register, vol. ii. (1886), No. 1100. AN INTERSTITIAL, ASCENDING, OR INTERPARIETAL HERNIA. 2157a. A portion of the Eight Innominate Bone, with the various muscles and fasciaa attached to it, from a case of strangulated interstitial inguinal hernia with retained testis. The aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle terminates as usual in two pillars to form the external ring, but the ring itself has been enlarged to about four times its natural size. Behind the aponeurosis is a considerable interval, in which the remains of the hernial sac lay. During life and before the operation this space was occupied by the right testis and the sac. The space, which in the specimen is kept open by glass rods, is formed by a separation of the external oblique muscle from the conjoined tendon of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles, as well as by a splitting of the aponeurosis itself toward the linea semilunaris. 1889 From a man, aged 45, who for eighteen years had suffered from a hernia, for which he had worn a truss. The hernia suddenly became strangulated twenty-four hours before his admission to the Hospital. When he was first seen, there was a swelling parallel to and above Poupart's ligament. The swelling was tense, resonant, and irreducible ; there was no impulse on coughing. The skin over it was red and discoloured. The intestine could be felt lying above the retained testicle and external to it. On exposing the intestine, about twelve inches of it, in three coils, was found in the processus vaginalis and reflected between the abdominal muscles ; it was congested and almost black. The testicle and a small piece of the omentum were removed. The patient died a few hours after the operation. At the autopsy the gut was found to have been strangulated in two places. See Male Surffical Eegister, vol. iv. (1888), No. 362. 1257b. The Retained Testis, with a Portion of Omentum, which were removed from the preceding case during the operation for the relief of the strangulated hernia. The testis was situated about half-way down the right inguinal canal. 1889 2159a. A Portion of the Abdominal Wall, in the neighbourhood of the linea alba. A small tumour consisting of fat and subperitoneal tissue has made its way through tiie linea alba. During life the tumour could be felt as a lobulated mass situated beneath the skin ; it was freely moveable and partly reducible. 1887 1259b. A Portion of the Anterior Abdominal Wall, showing a hernia of the subperitoneal fat. A small rounded tumour, consisting of fat and subperitoneal connective tissue, is seen to have made its way through the linea alba at a spot situated about three inches above the umbilicus. The peritoneum is not protruded, however, nor is there any true hernia. 1889 From a man, aged 65, who was admitted to the Hospital on account of this tumour, whieh was supposed to be a hernia. The tumour was exposed, and was returned into the abdominal cavity through the aperture in the linea alba, whieh was sewn up. The patient died of peri- tonitis five days after the operation, At the autopsy it was found that the peritoneum was uninjured, but that the inflammation appeared to have extended to it from the superjacent wound. See Male Surgical Register, vol. ii. (1886), No. 1100. VENTRAL HERNIA OF AN APPENDIX EPIPLOICA. 2159c. A Portion of the Abdominal Wall, from the left side. A mass, which at first sight consists of subperitoneal fat, protrudes through the left linea semilunaris at a spot a little below the level of the umbilicus. On more careful examination, however, it is readily seen that the protrusion consists of one of the appendices epiploic^, which has passed through an opening in the peritoneum. It is invested