DISPLACEMENTS OF THE INTESTINAL CANAL AND OMENTUM. 149 2115d.. A retro-peritoneal hernia of the Vermiform Appendix. The specimen also shows the empty sac of a large oblique inguinal hernia which has descended into the scrotum. The testis lies in the tunica vaginalis, which has been laid open, but does not communicate with the sac of the hernia. 1890 From the dissecting-room. Presented by C. B. Lockwood, Esq. 2115G. The sac of a large scrotal hernia, containing the ctecum and several coils of small intestine. Part of the wall of the caecum, the coats of which are much thickened, has been removed to show the opening of the vermiform appendix, into which a piece of black tube has been inserted : the ileo-c;ecal valve lies to the right of this orifice. The coils of small intestine are firmly matted together, forming an irreducible hernia. 1890 From the dissecting-room. Presented by 0. B. Lockwood, Esq. 2121a,. An inguinal hernia. A portion of omentum has become adherent to the inner surface of the sac, close to the fundus. 1883 2134a. Inguinal hernia, combined with hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis. 1883 2136a. Congenital hernia from a sucking-pig. The tunica vaginalis contains a loop of small intestine. The plica gabernatrix and plica vascularis are well shown. 1886 Presented by C. B, Lockwood, Esq. UNDESCENDED TESTIS. 2137a,. A Testis with the Tunica Vaginalis, which was removed during an operation for the radical cure of a congenital inguinal hernia. The testis had only partially descended, and lay in the inguinal canal. It is smaller than the normal. 1893 See Male Swgical Register, vol. iv. (1891), No. 2925a. HERNIA OF THE SIGMOID FLEXURE.. 2139a. A Congenital Hernia of the Sigmoid Flexure. The intestine was held in the mouth of the sac by a fold of peritoneum—the plica vascularis—which contained the spermatic vessels and a quantity of muscular fibres. The fold was situated towards the outer side of the sac. The vas deferens, under which a red rod is placed, lies towards the inner side of the sac, and is also accompanied by muscular fibres. The hernial sac appears to be continuous with the tunica vaginalis, although their cavities do not communicate. 1888 Examples of csecocele are preserved in the Teratological Series vi., No. 3632a and b. Presented by C. B. Lockwood, Esq. 2140a. The Sac of a Funicular Hernia. A portion of the anterior wall has been cut out, so as to show the septum which separates the cavity of the tunica vaginalis from that of the sac. 1884 From a subject in the dissecting-rooms. 2140b. The Sac of an Inguinal Hernia. The funicular portion of the peritoneum is closed at the level of the internal ring, but for the rest of its extent remains as an open tube, into which a black rod has been passed. A hernia descending through the internal ring has made its way behind the unclosed funicular portion. The position of the hernial sac (which has been opened in front) is indicated by a white glass rod. 1885 A drawing is preserved in Series Ivii., No. 463. 2140c. An Inguinal Hernia, constituting an example of the form described by Hey as " encysted." The funicular portion of the peritoneum is unclosed, except at its