88 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF ARTERIES. lobe, are occluded by the coagulum ; the left frontal lobe was in consequence softened. 1881 From a female, aged 56 years, who died with morbid growths in the right lung. See Post-Mortem Book, vol. viii., p. 220. 1559b. Portion of the Frontal Lobes, showing plugged anterior and middle cerebral arteries on the left side. 1885 The patient, a woman, aged 55, had stenosis of the aortic valves. Her leg was amputated for gangrene, when the main artery was found to be plugged. The kidneys and spleen both contained infarcts. For further details see Jlary Ward Book for 1885 (-?. v. Mary Crabb), and Surr/ical Post- Mortem Book for 1885, p. 12. 1571c. The Aorta and main Arteries of the left upper extremity. It will be seen that the artery is plugged from the commencement of the subclavian to the termination of the radial at the wrist. 1885 F., set. 48. No history of injury or other cause. Ill three months. See Female Surgical Register, vol. ii. (1884), No. 742. 1571d. The Heart and Arteries of the right upper extremity, from a case of dry gangrene following upon embolism of the subclavian and brachial vessels. The heart is greatly enlarged and is very fatty. Its mitral orifice is so dilated as to admit of the passage of four fingers through it, and the valves are rigid, calcareous, and fringed with lymph. The aortic valves are slightly atheromatous, and the aorta is somewhat larger than normal. The innominate and right subclavian vessels are patent, but at the spot where the subscapular branch is given off from the axillary artery to the origin of the circumflex vessels, the main vessel is completely occluded by an embolus. The clot is decolourised ; it is very firm, and is adherent to the walls of the.artery. The brachial artery appears to be normal as far as its bifurca- tion, but it is then occluded by an embolus, and by a firm adherent clot which extends for about half an inch into the radial and ulnar arteries. The hand had undergone dry gangrene, and was mummified for about three inches above the wrist. 1887 From a man, aged 63. Whilst rubbing some butter into his shoe with his right hand, six weeks before his death, he suddenly felt a pain in the situation of the carpo-metacarpal joint of the thumb. A small black spot appeared in this situation, and his hand soon became blue and numb. See Male Surgical Eegister, vol i. (1884), No. 3637. The hand is preserved in Series 1., No. 3235d. 1571e. The Abdominal Aorta witli the arteries of the lower extremities. The aorta is extremely degenerate, and about three inches from its bifurcation it contains a firm dark clot which occupies a part of its lumen. At the time of the autopsy the whole of the aorta in this situation was filled with coagulum. From the bifurcation downwards a clot completely filled both iliacs and the vessels of both legs as low as the popliteal arteries. In the wall of the common iliac on either side, just above the origin of the internal iliac and extending into tbat vessel, is a calcareous plate nearly an inch long and extending half way round the circumference. At the origin of the jirofunda artery is some dark-coloured and firmly adherent clot, and in the popliteal artery is a small piece of pale clot, which is also firmly adherent. Below the popliteal the arteries contained only a small quantity of dark coagulum, but they were hard and distended by thrombi. 1887 From a woman, aged 56, who, seven days before her death, was suddenly seized whilst walking with a numbness in her left leg below the knee. On admission she had double