254 DISEASES OP THE UTERUS. defined. The disease is an early form of epithelial cancer, and is limited to the surface of the ulcerated portion, and to the lowest part of the cervical canal. 1890 From a woman, aged 37, who had never been pregnant. She had had no previous illness. Her first symptoms (hemorrhage) commenced eighteen months before her admission into the Hospital. A drawing is preserved in Series Ivii., No. 1001, See MartliM Ward, Buoli for 1888, s.v. Anne Kemp. EXTIRPATION OF UTERUS. 3006a. The Bladder, Rectum, Vagina and surrounding parts of a woman from whom the uterus was removed by abdominal section, on account of cancer. The ligatures, which include the broad ligament, have been applied an inch from the fundus of the uterus, and are about the same distance from the ureters. The whole uterus has been removed, but no union has taken place between the cut surfaces of the upper part of the vagina. At the junction of the sigmoid flexure with the rectum, the calibre of the gut is much narrowed, but not by any cancerous growth. The vagina is free from disease. 1882 The patient died the second day after the operation. See Martha Ward Booh, December 29th, 1881. 3006b. The Uterus, from the same patient as the preceding specimen. The os uteri and posterior part of the cervix are the seat of epithelioma. The disease does not extend to the fundus. 1882 3006c. An Uterus, removed by abdominal section. It is more extensively diseased than the preceding specimen, the cancerous growth affecting the whole cervix, and part of the fundus, especially on the posterior surface. 1882 The patient died the third day after the operation. See Martha Ward Book, February 2nd, 1882. SCIRRHUS OF THE CERVIX UTERI. 3007a. The Eight Half of the Uterus, Bladder, and Vagina, from a case of scirrhous cancer, obliterating the cervical canal. The disease, which chiefly affects the cervix, has spread to the vesico-vaginal, and urethro-vaginal septa. There is no intra-vaginal outgrowth. The cavity of the body of the uterus is greatly dilated, and contained pus. It walls are thickened, partly by hypertrophy, and partly by the spread of the disease. In the other half of the preparation the disease extended as far as the ovarian ligament, where it formed a tumour. Microscopically, the growth consisted of spheroidal cells in dense connective tissue alveoli. 1888 From a woman, aged 51, who had suffered for eleven months from malignant disease of the uterus. In consequence of the growth pressing upon the rectum to such an extent as to cause obstruction to the passage of faeces, colotomy was performed. Ten days before the death of the patient, a spontaneous fracture of the left femur occurred. At the autopsy, secondary deposits of cancer were found in the liver and in the femur at the seat of fracture. See Female Surgical Register, vol. iv. (1886), No. 2157. 3008a. The Vaginal portion of a Cervix Uteri, which was removed by the ecraseur from a lady. The specimen shows an extremely early stage of cancerous disease, as it is just beginning to be infiltrated with an epitheliomatous growth, which has apparently started from the external tissue. 1887 3010a. A Sagittal Section of the Uterus, with parts of the Rectum and Vagina. The rectum is the seat of advanced cancer, which has spread to the posterior wall of the uterus, obliterating Douglas' pouch. The cavity of the body of the organ is dilated, its greatest depth being a quarter of an inch. The dflatation extends for about a quarter of an inch into the interstitial portion of the Fallopian tube, the rest of the tube being undilated. The body of the uterus is anteflexed. 1888