282 GENERAL PATHOLOGY, of the cells enclose granules of pigment, which in many cases are so numerous as to obscure the nuclei. Besides the pigment contained in the cells, there are masses of free pigment throughout the stroma. 1887 From a man, aged 75 years, who stated that the growth commenced eight months before its removal as a crack in the sole of the foot. There was neither pain nor induration in the surrounding tissues, but scattered over the sole were a number of pigmented patches. The lymphatic glands of the groin were considerably enlarged, and somewhat hard. A section is preserved in Series Iv., No. 525. See Transactions of the South Indian Branch of the British Medical Association for June, 1886, p. 25. Presented by Dr. Maitland. 3318c. A Melanotic Epithelioma of the Great Toe. The specimen has been divided longitudinally. The growth appears to have originated in the bed of the nail, which is itself much thickened and darkly pigmented. It is now seen to have involved the ungual phalanx for the greater part of its thickness, and to have extended into the surrounding skin. 1890 From a woman, aged 55. She had noticed the growth for some considerable time. The lymphatic glands were not affected. A microscopical section is preserved in Series Iv., No. 760. See FemaU Surgical Register, vol. iii. (1889), No. 2428*. 3321a- A Pedunculated, Warty Growth, removed from the skin round the margin of the anus. Microscopic examination showed it to be a typical example of a simple papilloma. 1886 Removed from a woman in the surgery ; no further history could be obtained. RODENT ULCER. 3324a. A Rodent Ulcer, removed from the face of a man. It extended down the side of the nose almost to the mouth. The irregular and rounded edges present many of the features of an epithelioma. Upon microscopic examination, however, it was found to be a true rodent ulcer, with a small-celled growth, but no cell nests. From a man, aged 51 ; a small pimple was first noticed sixteen years previously. 1886 Sections are preserved in Series Iv., No. 771. See Male Surgical Begister, vol. i. (1885), No. 1085. 3324b. A Large Warty Mass, which grew round the anus of a man, aged thirty-one. It is sessile, and has very much the appearance of a cauliflower. Microscopically, it consists of simple papillomatous tissue. 1887 A growth was.,flrst noticed in this position twenty mouths previous to the admission of the patient to the Hospital. It was removed, but in four mouths the present growth appeared. After removal it measured nine inches by six. There was much' offensive discharge from the growth, and the inguinal glands were inflamed. A drawing is preserved in Series Ivii., No. 455. See Male Surgical Register, vol. i. (1886), No. 3791*. 3325a. Vertical section of an Ankle injected, with a very vascular, warty, ulcerated epithelioma springing from the posterior surface of the leg, immediately above the heel. 1881 3325b. The lower third of the leg, and the posterior part of the foot of a patient, who had an Epithelioma growing on the site of a long-standing syphilitic sore. The cancerous growth is situated in the skin covering the right side of the tendo-achillis, immediately above its insertion into the os calcis. It measures three inches in diameter, and has the papillated appearance which is characteristic of epithelioma. 1889 From a gentleman, aged 58 years, who had suffered for thirty years from tertiary syphilitic eruptions. The sore on his leg first appeared about thirty years before amputation, and fre- quently recurred, being at times healed. He had had as many as seventy sores on his body. Four years ago the sore on his leg was pronounced to be cancerous. Presented by Thomas Smith, Esq.