DISEASES OF THE OVARIES. 241 2908Tb. An Uterus and the Ovaries, with a cyst connected with each ovary. The situation of the right ovary is occuj^ied by a large cyst, having the shape of a con- voluted tube, expanded at one end, and gradually narrowing at the other. It contained a greenish, highly albuminous fluid. The left ovary is occupied by a single cyst about the size of a bantam's egg, which was filled with a fatty material. 1881 From a woman, aged •16 years, who died of morbus cordis. 2908c. An Ovary and part of a Fallopian Tube, removed for chronic inflammation. Tbe ovary is somewhat enlarged by the dropsical dilatation of numerous Graafian follicles. The Fallopian tube is thickened to the size of a cedar pencil, and its fimbriEe are retracted, 1887 Presented by J. Knowsley Thornton, Esq. 2908d.. A Eight Ovary and Fallopian Tube, removed from a woman, aged thirty-five. The ovary is considerably enlarged, and is much indurated. It contains in its sub- stance a good-sized clot of blood. There are traces of old and tough adhesions upon the greater part of its surface. The Fallopian tube is adherent to the ovary, and its walls are much thickened by chronic inflammation, 1889 The patient had been married for fifteen years, but had never been pregnant. A year after her marriage, whilst carrying a sick child upstairs, she felt a sensation of something giving way in her body ; this was followed by intense pain in the abdomen, constant vomiting, and extreme prostration of strength, which laid her up for six weeks. These symptoms constantly recurred afterwards whenever she underwent a very small amount of exertion. She also suffered from dysmenorrhcea and dyspareunia. Oophorectomy was performed on October 22nd, 1888, when the right ovary was found to be fixed very firmly in Douglas' pouch by dense adhesions. The wound healed in a week, but convalescence was delayed by suppuration along the track of the sutures. She eventually made an excellent recovery, and when she was last seen, at the end of April, 1889, was able to perform her household duties with comfort. The dyspareunia had entirely disappeared. Presented by Thomas Sympson, Esq. 2908e. An Ovary, showing a Corpus Luteum, into which haemorrhage has occurred. It was removed by operation, together with a large parovarian cyst of the broad ligament. 1892 2909a. Section of the wall of an Ovarian Cyst, into the substance of which a hasmorrhage had taken place shortly before ovariotomy was performed. 1882 BLOOD CYST IN OVARY. 291 Oa. The Uterus, with the Right Ovary. The latter is occupied by a cyst the size of an egg, which, in the recent state, contained dark, fluid blood. The uterus is the seat of interstitial and subperitoneal fibroid tumours. 1883 2911a. A small Unilocular Cyst on the outer extremity of the left ovary. It contains several minute papillomatous outgrowths. 1890 2912a. A large Proliferating Cyst of the Ovary, removed by operation. The cyst has been turned inside out. On its walls are a number of small cysts containing clear fluid. There are also numerous bands of fibrous tissue attached to the walls and spreading from one point to another, 1892 See Martha Ward Book for 1890. DERMOID CYSTS OF THE OVARIES. 2915a. A small Dermoid Cyst, situated in the position of the right ovary. It con- tains hairs matted together by a white caseous material. The Fallopian tube is normal. 1889