109 NOSE, MOUTH, TONGUE, PALATE, AND FAUCES. TUBERCULAR ULCERATION OF THE SOFT PALATE. 1781a. The Larynx and Trachea, with a portion of the soft palate, from a man, aged fifty-six, who died with tubercular phthisis. The epiglottis and larynx are deeply ulcerated over the greater portion of their surface. The edges of the epiglottis are eroded by the ulceration, and there is some considerable thickening of the arytseno-epiglottidean folds. The soft palate has also undergone a process of diffuse ulceration. 1887 See Medical Post-Mortem Booh, vol. xii., p. 179. 1782a. A Tongue removed by operation on account of a large ulcer situated on the dorsum of the anterior half. The edges are sharply defined, and the affected area is slightly raised and fissured in places. There is, however, little or no loss of substance. Microscopical examination of the central portion showed no epithelial ingrowth nor other signs of malignant disease. 1892 See Male Surgical Register, vol. iv. (1890), No. 1772. 1785a. Portions of a Tongue removed by operation. The surface is covered by a warty, papillated growth, consisting of small, white, rounded elevations, about the size of a hemp-seed, so closely set together that the normal surface of the organ cannot be seen. Before removal these small outgrowths presented a semi-translucent appearance. 1884 Microscopic examination shows that the fungiform papillre of the tongue are greatly enlarged, both their epithelial and connective tissue elements being increased. DIFFUSE PAPILLOMA OF TONGUE. 1785a-i. A Portion of a Tongue, on the dorsum of which is a circular patch one and a half inches in diameter, where the papillae have undergone a general hypertrophy producing a rough and shaggy appearance. On the cut surface the tissue immediately below the growth looks to the naked eye as though it were infiltrated by a malignant tumour ; under the microscope, however, this is seen to consist only of inflammatory small cells, and there are no signs of epithelioma. 1892 1785b. A Small Pedunculated Tumour removed from the left side of the tongue. The tumour is of the size of a bean. It was hard and painful. Microscopically, the growth was composed of fibrous tissue. 1888 From a woman, aged 30, who had noticed the presence of a tumour on her tongue for five years. A section of the growth is preserved in Series Iv., No. 203, and a Drawing in Series Ivii., No. 324. See Female Surgical Register, vol. i. (1887), No. 1122. SOFT FIBROMA OF THE TONGUE. 1785G. A Small Fibroma which was removed from the substance of the tongue of an old gentleman, aged seventy. It occupied the right half of the tongue, and was shelled out with perfect ease from amongst the muscles. Microscopical examination showed the tumour to be a soft fibroma. 1889 Presented by Stephen Paget, Esq. LINGUAL ADENOMA. 1785d.. A Cystic Tumour which was removed from the base of the tongue. The growth is irregular in shape, and measures three inches in length. It contains one large cyst lined with a shaggy membrane, and two smaller cysts. Microscopically it is an adenoma, closely resembling in appearance a serous salivary gland. The acini are circular ; the epithelial cells are small and spheroidal. Many of the cells are distended by homogeneous globules, which are apparently colloid in nature, and the cavity of each acinus appears to be filled with a similar substance. The tumour was situated between the base of the tongue and the epiglottis. It was of about the size of a hen's egg, and was covered by the lingual mucous membrane. 1889 I 2