160 DISEASES AND INJUBIES OF THE LIVER. PYLEPHLEBITIS. 2205a. A Liver, the Portal Vein of which was found to be jilugged by a firm partially decolourised clot. The whole gland is enlarged, and weighed sixty-five ounces. The lobulus Spigelii is enlarged to four or five times its normal size. The gall-bladder is much thickened, and all the tissues in the transverse fissure are firmly matted together. 1892 From a man, aged 41, who was admitted into the Hospital and died the same evening. See Medical Post-Mortem Bcgister, vol. xvi., p. 108. A drawing is preserved in Series Ivii., No. 491. 2209a. A Section of a Liver which has been enormously enlarged by the infiltration of a melanotic sarcoma. The entire liver weighed sixteen pounds when it was removed from the body. The section shows large nodules of a black colour and circular in outline, which are separated from each other by strong white septa. In some parts the growth is diffuse and of a grey colour, but there is nowhere any trace of liver tissue. 1889 From a warehouseman, aged 48, whose father had died from a tumour. Three years before his admission to the Hospital his right eye was removed on account of a mela- notic tumour, which grew from the choroid. Four months before his death he had pain in the right side of the abdomen, accompanied by nausea and retching, and in three months he had lost a stone in weight. Tlie liver dulness during life reached as high as the fifth rib. Melanotic growths were found in the mesenteric glands and in Ijoth kidneys. The peritoneum showed numerous minute specks, and there was one in the skin of the left axilla of the size of a pin's head. There was no new growth in the chest nor in the spleen. A portion of the kidney is preserved in Series xxviii., No. 2390d. See lAihe Ward Book for 1888, No. 192. See Transactions of the Patholor/ical Society, vol. xl., p. 138. 2215a. A Section through a Liver, very extensively diseased by Multiple Sarcomata. The whole gland was enormously but uniformly involved, and reached to the umbilicus in the middle line. On section it was found to be filled with masses of soft yellowish material, nearly circular in shape, and varying in size from a quarter to one inch in diameter, and being so numerous as to leave very little liver substance remaining. The bile ducts were pervious, and bile was present in the duodenum. The portal vein was normal. An enlarged lymphatic gland which had commenced to " break down " was found in the hilum of the liver ; the lumbar lymphatic glands were also increased in size. 1892 From a man, aged 56. Under the microscope the tumours were found to be small round- celled sarcomata. See Medical Post-Mortem Register, vol. xvii., p. 142. 2216a. The Eight Lobe of a Liver which is the seat of numerous secondary deposits of cancer. The nodules of cancer are large, white, and firm, with depressed centres. The liver weighed seventy ounces. Microscopically, the organ is infiltrated with a well-marked columnar carcinoma. 1888 From a man, aged 52, who had cancer of the rectum. The pelvis, with the rectum in situ, is preserved in Series xix.. No. 2072a. See Medical Post-Mortem Booh, vol. xiii., p. 14. 2216b. A Portion of the Right Lobe of the Liver infiltrated by a large mass of new growth. Microscopical examination showed it to consist of encephaloid cancer. The growth is dense and firm, and has entirely destroyed the hepatic tissue. It was secondary to a carcinoma of the rectum in a man, aged sixty-two years. The liver weighed seven pounds. 1888 Sections are preserved in Series Iv., No. 315. Sec Male Surgical Ilegistet; vol. iv. (1887), No. 1753. 2216c. The Left Lobe and part of the Right Lobe of a Liver, showing several rounded masses which are the secondary deposits of colloid carcinoma. They occur