DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE 70 See Matthew Ward Book for 1885, p. 865. INJURIES OF THE PERICARDIUM. 1234a. A Portion of the Pericardium, showing a large oval aperture with rounded edges. The aperture, measuring about one inch and a quarter by one inch, was situated near the apex of the heart, at the posterior surface and on its left side. 1887 From a man, aged 58, who fractured several of his ribs, and sustained otlier injuries by falling a distance of twenty feet three weeks before his death. The patient had pericarditis, but the injury which caused the jierforation in the pericardium appears to be of older date than that which caused death. See Male Surgical Register, vol. i. (1885), No. 3807. 1241a. A Heart with enormous Hypertrophy of the left Ventricle. The valves are healthy. 1883 From a man who suffered from chronic nephritis. One of the kidneys, which were granular and contracted, is preserved in Series xxviii.. No. 2335a. COR ELEPHANTINUM. 1241b. An enormously Hypertrophied Heart, weighing in its present condition twenty-three ounces. Both sides of the heart are very much enlarged, the enlarge- ment being nearly symmetrical ; the pericardium contained about half a pint of fluid. The mitral valves were competent, but the aortic valves were thickened, and allowed water to trickle slowly through them. 1890 From a man, aged 38, who had chronic interstitial nephritis. One of the kidneys is preserved in Series xxviii., No. 2335d. See Medical Pust-Mortem Register, vol. xv., p. 63. SPONTANEOUS RUPTURE. 1247a. A Heart showing a Rupture of the Left Ventricle. The rupture is a small circular orifice, just capable of receiving a No. 2 catheter. It is situated in the wall of the left ventricle, one inch and one-eighth below the auriculo-ventricular septum, and five-eighths of an incb to the left of the interventricular septum. A director passed through the aperture runs upwards and to the right alon^- a narrow canal in the muscular wall of the ventricle, until it opens into the right ventricle immediately below the pulmonary valves. The cardiac muscle in this situation is extremely degenerate and soft. There is a large unilocular aneurysm of the first part of the arch of the aorta, whicli has been partially cured by a deposit of laminated fibrin. The aorta itself is extremely atheromatous, and the pericardium is attached by dense adhesions to the outer surface of the aneurysm. 1889 From a man who died suddenly, after going upstairs, with all the signs of internal hfemorrhage. He had been treated for cardiac aneurysm. See Transactions of the Pathohqical Society, vol. xl., p. 58. Presented by W. H. White, M.D., and W. T. Strugnell, M.B. 1248a. A Heart wliich has ruptured. The left ventricle is greatly dilated, and its muscular tissue is easily torn. At the upper part of the right ventricle, near the lower portion of the conus arteriosus, is a rent extending completely through the substance of the heart. In the recent state the laceration, through which a glass rod has been passed, was occupied by a clot of blood. To the left of the rent, is a rupture through the fat and muscular tissue, aboiit one inch and a quarter in length. It is situated just over the anterior part of the ventricular septum, but it does not penetrate any cavity. This laceration extended upwards under the visceral layer of the pericardium, and appears to open into a branch of the anterior coronary artery. A red rod has been passed along it for some distance. 1886 M., set. 54 ; was admitted in a comatose condition ; no further history was obtainable. At the autopsy the pericardium was found to be filled with blood. The internal coat of the aorta was swollen and atheromatous, and there was a large haemorrhage into the right side of the brain.