SERIES VII. ABIfOMAL OOIDITIOIfS OF THE TIRIMUT CLASS I.—VARIATION, (a.) Of the Kidney. FLOATING KIDNEY. 3649a. The Kidney and Supra-renal Capsule connected by a very long and wide mesentery ; tlie position of the abdominal aorta shows the extent of its attachment. 1889 From a man, aged 68, who was admitted to the Hospital with a strangulated femoral hernia. See Male Surgical Register, vol. v. (1887), No. 3858*. 3651a. A Horse-shoe Kidney. 1885 3651b. Kidneys united at their lower ends by a broad band of renal substance, so as to form a continuous mass, shaped like a horse-shoe. Each lateral half has a pelvis ; the median portion has none. There are two ureters, which empty them- selves into an unusually small bladder. The aorta gives off three renal arteries, two of which supply the left side of the renal mass, whilst one enters the right ; there are two renal veins. 1889 From a man, aged 19 years, who died of phthisis. See Medical Post-Mortem Register, vol. xiv., p. 105. 3660a. A Malformed Kidney, resulting from the fusion of the two organs. The arterial supply remains distinct, and there are two ureters. 1885 3660b. A single Kidney, situated lower than the usual position, as it lies between the two common iliac arteries. The kidney possesses two ureters. It derives its arterial supply from a branch of the arteria sacra media. The aorta is extensively diseased. 1885 3660c. A Congenitally Misplaced Kidney. It was situated in front of the pro- montory of the sacrum, where it lay embedded in cellular tissue. The inter-vertebral cartilage, which separated the sacrum from the last lumbar vertebra, was laid bare when the organ was removed after death. The kidney is shorter and thicker than natural, and is curved to adapt itself to its position. The hilum is situated on its abdominal surface. 1888 From a medical man, aged 25, who had long noticed a mass in the lower part of his ab- domen, which caused pain, and gave rise, as he thought, to severe constipation. The mass was supposed to be a collection of tubercular mesenteric glands. The presence of the tumour so preyed upon the patient's mind that he committed suicide. At the post-mortem examina- tion the left kidney occupied the normal position. It was decidedly larger than usual, but had every appearance of being perfectly healthy. Presented by T. S. Ellis, Esq.