DISEASES OF BONES. 13 tlie shaft, and extends upwards for two and a half inches ; it is lined by a thick membrane with an irregular surface, and leads, near its lower end, through an open- ing in the bone into a sinus in the popliteal space. When the bone, subsequent to the amputation, had been sawn through, the cavity of the abscess was found to contain four or tiye small spicules of dead bone, the largest of which measured about one-third of an inch in its longest diameter. Around the abscess the bone is thickened and condensed, and its geneal outline is considerably altered. 1893 259a. Sections of a Tibia, exhibiting great thickening of its walls, the result of the irritation of a Central Sequestrum. The necrosis apparently involved the layer of bone surrounding the medullary canal ; portions of the necrosed bone appear to have been undergoing absorption, as in the preceding specimen. Both malleoli have been separated by fractures, and are imperfectly united to the shaft. 1881 (In Case F.) 271a. Portions of Two Ribs, with their Costal Cartilages, showing the "beading" characteristic of Rickets. 1885 284a. Section of a Tibia from a child who had formerly suffered from Rickets. The bone presents a sharp anterior curve, the concavity of which is partly filled up by a considerable quantity of white compact bone. 1883 288a. Sections of the Humerus of a Rickety Child. The whole bone is extremely soft, and can readily be bent in any direction. The compact bone is thinner than natural, and is surrounded by thickened periosteum. At the centre of the shaft is a fracture, three weeks old, surrounded by a considerable deposit of callus. The hne of fracture of the upper epiphysis is irregular. 1883 2881d. Lower end of the Radius, to show the enlargement characteristic of Rickets. 1884 288c. The Lower End of the Radius and Ulna of a Child, aged seventeen months, who suffered from advanced Rickets. The bones have been divided longitudinally, and show that the cartilage uniting the shaft and epiphysis is greatly increased in thickness. There was weU-maiked " beading " of the ribs. 1891 289a. Sections of the Upper Extremity of a Right Humerus. There is a large cavity in the head, which was tilled with thin blood-stained fluid. The enlarged medullary canal contains a soft fatty material, which was yellow and red in the recent state. The wall of the bone is thinned, especially near the head. 1881 2891). Sections of the Upper Extremities of the Femora from the same person as the preceding. Occupying the upper part of the bottle, is a section of the head of the left femur, showing the surface of a fracture through the neck. Close to the line of fracture are two small cavities in the cancellous tissue, containing some blood-clot. Below, is a section of a portion of the right femur. Occupying its head is a smooth-walled cavity, almost as large as a walnut ; it contained a thin yellow fluid. Another smaller cavity is situated at the junction of the neck with the shaft. The medullary cavity is filled with a fleshy substance, of a red colour, and having somewhat the appearance of a myeloid tumour in the recent state. 1881 The two preceding specimens were taken from a man, aged 50 years, who died a few days after admission to the Hospital, with a fracture of the neck of the left femur, which occurred in the following manner :—he was cleaning his boot, with the foot placed upon a chair, when the chair upset, and he foil to the ground with his left leg aud thigh twisted beneath him. On post-mortem examination the long bones were found to be affected with mollitics ossium. The skull-cap was so soft that it could be bent with ease. The vertebra3 were soft and fatty, and the pelvis was slightly beaked. The ribs easily snapped asunder, aud a small myeloid