INVERTEBRATA. 369 1562g. Two incomplete specimens of the Water-Beetle (Dytiscus marginalis). 1886 156211. A specimen of Chrysomela limbata, 1886 The eight preceding specimens were presented by S. C. K. Moberly, Esq., who obtained them in the neighbourhood of Taganrog, South Russia. SUB-KINGDOM V.—MOLLUSCA. (A.) MOLLUSCOIDA. CLASS I.—POLYZOA. 1563a. A Microscopical Preparation of Plumatella Eepens, showing the avicularia. 1887 Presented by D'Arcy Power, Esq. 1563b. Flustra foliacea, prepared for microscopic examination, .1889 Presented by T. W. Shore, M.D. II. TUmCATA. 1568a. Botryllus Stellatus. A portion of a fixed compound ascidian. The mass consists of a firm gelatinous matrix, in which are embedded the individuals arranged in star-shaped clusters. 1887 Dredged in Portland Roads. Presented by D'Arcy Power, Esq. (B.) MOLLUSCA. (I.) ACEPHALA. CLASS I.—LAMELLIBKANCHIATA. 1581a. Sections through (a) the widest part of the body, (b) the middle of the ventricle, and (c) the posterior adductor of a large specimen of the fresh-water mussel (Anodonta cygnea). In the uppermost section, which passes through the renal and reproductive apertures, the mantle folds are seen to arise close to the dorsal surface. The visceral mass is large and laterally compressed ; it lies between the two mantle lobes, and its ventral edge is produced into the wedge-shaped muscular foot. The coils of the intestine are seen in the visceral mass embedded in the generative gland, and cut across about half a dozen times. In the pericardial cavity, which is situated in the median line immediately beneath the dorsal surface, is seen the rectum. Inside the rectum is the typhlosole or fold of its ventral surface. The gills lie in the dorsal half of the mantle-cavity between the visceral mass and the mantle. Along the base of each gill is the supra-branchial canal, along which the respiratory stream of water flows backwards to the cloacal cavity. The excretory organs are paired, and lie between the pericardium and the visceral mass. The reproductive apertures are immediately ventral to the excretory apertures. In the middle section, which passes through the ventricle, the mantle lobes are the same as in the preceding specimen. The visceral mass is cut across close to its posterior end. The inner lamella of the gill ends in a free extremity above. The pericardial cavity is triangular in section, and has very thin walls. The ventricle surrounds the rectum. The vena cava is a thin membranous tube lying in the floor of the pericardium. The kidneys lie on either side of, and above, the visceral mass. In the lowest section the posterior adductor muscle is seen as a large mass of transverse muscular fibres running across the dorsum. The gills are cut across close to their dorsal ends, and are small. The rectum lies dorsal to the adductor muscle, the typhlosole still being present, 1888