DISEASES OF THE TESTICLE, ITS COVERINGS, AND OF THE SPERMATIC CORD. 233 layers a quantity of fat and a large number of hair follicles. Each follicle has well- developed sebaceous glands in connection with it, and each contains a non-meduUated hair. 1887 From a healthy child, aged four, in whom the tumour had been noticed for throe years. When first observed it was growing slowly, but during the eighteen months preceding removal it increased rapidly in size. See Trunsaotions of the Pathological Society, voL xxxviii., p. 224. Sections are preserved in Series Iv., No. 552. Presented by Dr. B. Stanley Wood and C. 0. Harris, Esq. 2810b. A Section through a Tumour, involving the body of the right testicle. The tumour is large and oval, measuring five inches in length by three in breadth. In size it is about as large as a turkey's egg. It appears to be an old dermoid cyst, with its cheesy contents enclosed in a calcified wall. 1889 From a West Indian, aged i6, who had been employed for twelve years in England as a clerk. The enlarged testis had been observed for at least sixteen years. See Male Surg leal Registei', vol. iv. (1887), No. 2009. 2811a. A Testicle, with a Cartilaginous Body the size of a pea attached to its surface, near the tail of the epididymis. 1881 From the dissecting-room. FATTY TUMOURS OF THE SPERMATIC CORD. 2812a. Two specimens of Liponiata of the Spermatic Curd. The tumours are lobu- lated masses of fat, apparently derived from the sub-])eritoneal tissue ; tlioy extend along the upper third of the cord in close relation with the spermatic artery. 1886 Both specimens were obtained from an old subject brought in for dissection. 2812b. A good example of a fatty Tumour of the Spermatic Cord. A lobulated mass of fat has passed through the inguinal canal, and extends along the whole length of the cord of the testis. 1886 From a subject brought for dissection. 2813a. A Tumour of the Spermatic Cord, situated immediately above the testicle, and connected at its lower part with the globus minor of the epididymis. The vas deferens passed through its posterior portion. 1881 On examination with the microscope, the tumour appeared to be composed of a number of tubules, and it was thought that it might have originated in the remains of some of the fcetal ducts of the part. It was removed, with the testicle, from a child, aged four years. The case is described, by Mr. Walsham, in the Patliologieal Society''s Transactions, vol. xxxi., 1880, p. 303. Presented by W. J. Walsham, Esq. VARICOCELE. 2816a. A Spermatic Cord, in which the veins of the pampiniform plexus have been dissected out after having been partially injected. Many of the veins are enlarged and tortuous, exhibiting the condition found in an early stage of varicocele, 1888 From a man, aged about 30 years. 2816b. A Spermatic Cord, which has been treated in the same way as the previous one. The spermatic veins are less numerous and tortuous. " 1888 2816c. A Spermatic Cord, in which the veins of the spermatic plexus have been dis- sected out and painted blue. It will be seen that they are large, numerous, and tortuous. 1888