SERIES LII. URIMM CAICIJLI. CALCULI CONSISTING MAINLY OF URIC ACID. la. The half of a black Calculus, about the size of a walnut. The bulk of the calculus is composed of uric acid with a slight admixture of urates. The nucleus is black and the external surface is coated with a layer of similar material. 1882 From a man, aged 47, who had suffered from the symptoms of calculus for two years. His urine presented no unusual characters. The stone was removed by lithotomy. No special colouring matter could be detected. See Hemy Ward Book, vol. viii., p. 148. Lithotomy by T. Smith, Esq. 5C. A Section of a Uric Acid Calculus, which weighed, when complete, 1,090 grains, its length was two and three-eighths inches, its width one inch and five-eighths, its thickness one inch and a quarter, and its girth four and five-eighths inches. 1889 It was removed by lateral lithotomy from a man, aged 63, who had symptoms of vesical irritation for about five years. Before he had the pain in his bladder he used to suffer from attacks of pain in his lumbar region, which extended to his groin and down bis thigh on the right side. He did not remember to have passed any calculus, though his urine frequently contained " gravel." He had not suffered any lumbar pain for the last five years, that is to say, since his bladder troubles began. The patient made a good recovery. Presented by W. Wood Cuthbert, Esq. 41a. Six Calculi, removed by Supra-pubic Cystotomy. They all have flattened sur- faces and are of a more or less pyramidal shape. The largest calculus has been cut in two, and is seen to have a dark-coloured nucleus of uric acid, while the remainder is composed of a pale outer covering of earthy phosphates. 1892 The patient was an old man, aged 61, who had suffered from symptoms of stone in the bladder for twenty years. See Male Surgical Register, vol. v. (1892), No. 388. 42a. Four Small Flat Calculi, composed of Uric Acid with an outer covering of Phosphates, which were removed by supra-pubic cystotomy. 1891 The patient was an old gentleman, aged 78. He had had symptoms for seven years, during which time, on two occasions, lithotrity had been performed. On this occasion, owing to the greatly hypertrophied prostate, no lithotrite could be introduced, and the bladder was accordingly opened above the pubes. He made a good recovery. Presented by Howard Marsh, Esq. 46a- Two oval flattened Calculi, of almost exactly the same size and shape, consist- ing of uric acid surrounded by a very thin layer of earthy phosphates. They show no trace of being facetted. 1883 46b. A flattened Calculus, composed almost entirely of uric acid. 1883