DISEASES OF BONES. 23 at a point immediately below the great trochanter, whilst the lower portion has sustained an irregular transverse fracture. The medullary canal is closed by a deposit of sclerosed bone, except at its centre, where the new growth has caused absorption. At one spot the shaft of the femur is thickened so as to form an oval swelling. Microscopically the new growth is a fibro-sarcoma, which is in places undergoing calcification. No myeloid cells were found. 1886 The patient, a gentleman, aged 28, had suffered pain in his right thigh for four months. On examination a tumour was discovered in the long axis of the femur. Shortly afterwards, whilst turning in bed, the femur broke. Amputation was performed, and the patient made a good recovery. Sections of the growth are preserved in Series Iv., No. 42. Drawings of the tumour as it appeared before and after removal are preserved in Series Ivii., No. 49. See also I'ransaetions of tlie Pathvluffical Society, vol. xxxvii., p. 377. and plate xiv., figs, 2, 3, 4. Presented by J. Langton, Esq. 475b. A Section of the Head and Upper Portion of the shaft of the Femur. The medullary cavity of the shaft and neck nearly up to the epiphysis is infiltrated by a new growth. At the lowest part of the femur the growth has extended beyond the bony wall, invading the surrounding muscle and connective tissue, and in parts has ulcerated, so as to leave an irregular cavity. Microscopically the growth is a spindle-celled sarcoma. 1887 From the same case as the preceding (No. 475a). Disarticulation of the head of the femur was performed seventeen months after the amputation in the middle third of the thigh. A microscopic specimen is preserved in Series Iv., No. 43. See also Transactions of the Pathological Society, vol. xxxviii., p. 288. Presented by J. Langton, Esq. 477a- A Longitudinal Section of the lower two-thirds of the Femur, showing the changes which have resulted from the growth of a Spindle-Celled Sarcoma around its lower part. Immediately above the condyles is a considerable quantity of new bone, which has been deposited in the form of spicula?, whilst in other parts the bone is eroded by the pressure of the tumour. The growth, which extended round the whole circumference of the femur, was of an elongated oval form, and was in parts pulsating. 1886 (In Case G.) M., £et. 40. The patient had noticed a swelling on the inner side of his left knee-joint for seven years. It was painless during the first two years, but subsequently became painful, the pain increasing in severity until the limb was removed. The other half of the femur, with the tumour, is preserved in Series i.. No. 477b. See Male Surgical Register, vol. iv. (1886), No. 1368. 477b. A longitudinal section of the Lower Two-thirds of a Femur, to which a large Periosteal Sarcoma is attached. The sarcoma measures four and a half inches in breadth, and was supported by a mesh-work of bony spicules, as is seen in the opposite half of the femur, which has been macerated (No. 477a). The growth extended round the whole circumference of the femur, and was in parts pulsating. The popliteal vessels ran over the back of the tumour. Microscopical examination showed that the growth was a spindle-celled sarcoma. 1889 From a man, aged 40, who had noticed a swelling on the inner side of his left knee-joint for seven years. It was painless during the first two years, but subsequently became painful, the pain increasing in severity until the limb was removed. The opposite half of the femur has been macerated, and is preserved in the preceding specimen, Series i.. No. 477a. See Male Surgical Register, vol. iv. (1886), No. 1368. 480a. A Section through the lower half of the Femur, showing a large Ossifying Sarcoma. The tumour consists almost entirely of a solid, uniform, and very dense osseous substance, which completely surrounds the lower third of the shaft of the