208 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE BRAIN AND ITS MEMBRANES. TUMOUR OF PITUITARY BODY. 2504a. Portions of the body of the Sphenoid Bone, with the Sella Turcica and a tumour in the site of the Pituitary Body. The new growth is composed of two parts, each rather larger than a walnut, the one composed of hard nodulated bone, the other of a soft, homogeneous, brain-like material, containing numerous cysts, in the cavities of which are found the remains of broken-down epithelium and some calcareous debris. 1883 The patient was a man, aged 22, who had sufEered from frequent fits for ten years before death. A microscopic examination shows that the softer part of the growth is composed of a stroma of connective tissue containing a very large number of small blood-vessels. In various parts of this stroma are ingrowths of epithelial cells, which show a great tendency to undergo cystic degeneration, thus forming the cysts seen in the specimen. The harder part of the tumour is not composed of true bone, but of the calcified stroma. Microscopic sections are preserved in Series Iv., Nos. 446 and 447. CYST OF THE CHOROID PLEXUS. 2511a. A simple Cyst, springing from the choroid plexus in the right lateral ventricle of the brain. The cyst appears to be the result of a cystic degeneration of the choroid plexus. 1886 A young gentleman, aged 21, had been noticed by his friends to be indolent and lazy for twelve mouths. On the night of his illness he ate a hearty supper at 10 p.m., and went to bed between 11 and 12 midnight. At 1.30 a.m. he was found semi-conscious and vomiting. He gradually became comatose, and died, after a slight convulsion, at 3.30 a.m. With the exception of a certain want of energy, he had always appeared to be in excellent health, and never had any fits. At the autopsy, thirty-six hours after death, the abdominal and thoracic viscera were found normal. On opening the head, a very large quantity of clear, serous fluid escaped. The vessels on the surface of the brain were deeply injected, and the convolutions were much flattened. All the ventricles were greatly distended with clear fluid, and on opening the right lateral ventricle the cyst was seen. It was as large as a pigeon's egg, and had not burst. A section of the tumour is preserved in Series Iv., No. 449. See Ti'ansactions of tJie Pathological Society, vol. xxxvii., p. 57. Presented by W. Lenton Heath, M.D. GENERAL PARALYSIS OF THE INSANE. 2511b. The Brain of a woman, who died from General Paralysis. The upper portions of both hemispheres have been removed in order to expose fully the lateral ventricles, both of which are dilated. Other characteristics of the disease are also seen in this specimen, viz., (i.) thickening of the pia mater, (ii.) sljrinking of the cortical sub- stance of the convolutions, thus rendering the sulci unduly prominent, (iii.) the presence of small cysts on the choroid plexus, (iv.) the dilated perivascular spaces, seen in the cut surface as minute orifices, not larger than those caused by the point of a fine needle. 1893 The patient was a married woman, aged 37, who died in the Banstead Lunatic Asylum eighteen months after her admission. She had well-marked signs of the disease, which steadily increased until her death. Presented by T. Claye Shaw, M.D. 2512a. A Brain, from which the upper part and sides of the lateral hemispheres have been removed, laying open the lateral ventricles and disclosing a cyst of the pineal gland overlapping the corpora quadrigeraina. This cyst is about the size of a hazel nut, is nearly globular, and, when fresh, was seen to have thin translucent walls : it contained a clear, serous fluid. A small piece of its upper wall has been removed. 1891 The patient was a woman, aged 36, who had diabetes. Sec Alexandra Ward Book, 1890, No. 2025.