186 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE KIDNEYS, 2373a- Kidneys, Bladder, and portion of the Eectum of a child. The pelvis and calyces of the right kidney are dilated, and considerable absorption of the glandular substance has taken place. The left kidney is less altered. The ureters are dilated and pervious. The bladder does not appear to be thickened. 1885 From au infant, aged 14 days, who had an imperforate anus. At the autopsy the sigmoid flexure was found to be much distended ; it turned across tlie sacrum to the right side, and ended in a blind dilated rectum. The bladder contained a drachm of healthy urine. The dilated condition of the kidneys may have been due to the distended and abnormal sigmoid flexure impeding the flow of urine along the ureters. See Female Surgical Begistcr, vol. i. (1885), No. 3993. HYDRONEPHROSIS. 2375a. A Right Kidney, removed by operation. The pelvis is very much distended and now forms a large sac ; very little kidney substance remains. The ureter, into which a blue glass rod has been inserted, is at the lowest part of the sac, and com- municates with it by a more or less valvular opening. Its calibre is not enlarged. 1892 The patient was a woman, aged 43, who had suffered from pain in the region of the kidney for three years. No stone was found, and the only cause suggested was abnormal arrange- ment of the arteries. The woman made a good recovery, and was quite well one year after the operation. See Transactions of the Pathological Society, vol. xlii., p. 185. Presented by Alban Doran, Esq. 2375b. A Eight Kidney, which has become enormously distended, and which now consists of a number of sacs communicating with each other, the largest of these is at the upper end. The tumour reached from the diaphragm (a portion of which is adherent to the cyst-wall) down to the pelvis, where it is firmly fixed to the csecum and first part of the ascending colon. It measures eleven and a half inches in length, and six inches in diameter at the widest part. The parietal layer of the peritoneum is stretched over and forms part of its inner wall. The commencement of the ureter lies at the back, into which a small blue glass rod has been placed. It does not appear to be dilated, but the opening is bent on itself so as to cause a more or less valvular orifice. Openings have been cut in the walls of the cysts, through which it is seen that the kidney substance has been entirely absorbed. 1893 From a man, aged 48, who was admitted for an intracapsular fracture of the femur. No cause was found for the great distension of the right kidney. The left kidney was healthy, and weighed ten ounces. See 3Iale Surgical Begistcr, vol. iv. (1890), No. 2002. 2377a. A Section through the Left Kidney. The pelvis is enormously dilated, and was full of urine. In the anterior, superior, and posterior walls of the pelvis is a deposit of calcareous substance, like that found in an atheromatous aorta. The ureter appeared to be pervious. 1889 From a man, aged 45, who died from cerebral haemorrhage. See Medical Post-Mortem Register, vol. xiv., p. 133. 2379a. Sections of two Kidneys. A cyst, the size of an orange, and having a very thin wall, projects from the surface of the lower specimen, and a similar, but much smaller, cyst is shown in the section of the kidney suspended above it. There is no obvious disease of their parenchyma. 1881 From a man who died with the aortic aneurysm which is preserved in Series viii., No. 1511a. 2381a. Section of a Kidney affected with chronic interstitial nephritis. The organ is much smaller than usual, and its cortex is narrovred. Numerous small cysts are situated upon its surface, lying beneath the capsule. 1888 From a man, aged 59, who died of hfemorrhage into the pons Varolii. The opposite kidney was in a similar condition. See Medical Post-3Iortem Booh, vol. xiii., p. 61,