DISEASES OF JOINTS. 37 693a. The Left Knee, showing in an almost typical manner the results of Osteo- Arthritis. There is a great overgrowth of cartilage around the articular surface of the femur, especially at the upper and anterior margin of the external condyle. This cartilage is ossified in such a way as to form nodular osteophytes. The patella and tibia show similar osteophytes or ecchoudroses. The cartilage covering each of the articular surfaces of the joint is fibrillated and worn down, but the subjacent bone is nowhere exposed. The synovial membrane is thickly covered with fringes, giving it a shaggy appearance. 1886 The patient, a man, aged 25, died of Briglit's disease and oedema of tlie glottis ; it was doubtful whether he had congenital syphilis. A drawing is preserved in Series Ivii., No. 97. See 31ale Surgical Register, vol. i. (1886), No. 713. 696a. A Patella and Knee (right) affected with Rheumatoid Arthritis. The patella is small; it has been thinned by rubbing to about one-third of its normal thickness, and it is eburnated. Around it, especially beneath the vastus externus muscle, are osteophytes of all sizes : one is as large as the patella ; some of the smaller outgrowths are pedunculated. On the external condyle of the femur is an eburnated surface corresponding to that on the patella. An osteophyte is growing in a fringe of the synovial membrane on the head of the tibia. 1885 The specimen came from the dissecting-room. It was prepared and presented by John Gay, Eisq. 701a. The Tarsus of a Dog, showing changes caused by Rheumatoid Arthritis. 1882 See Transactions of the Pathological Society, vol. xxxiii., p. 432. 709a. A Great Toe and Finger Joints, together with the Astragalus and lower end of the Tibia, showing deposits of urate of soda in the articular cartilages. 1882 See Transactions of the Pathological Society, vol. xxxiii., p. 271. 709b. An Astragalus, with the External and Internal Malleoli of the Fibula and Tibia. The articular surfaces of the bones are coated with an unusually extensive deposit of urate of soda. 1884 The specimen was obtained from a subject brought in for dissection. Many of the other joints were equally affected. 711a. A Series of Great-Toe Joints affected with Gout in varying degrees. In some of the specimens, the ligaments and other tissues around the articulations have considerable deposits of urate of soda. 1882 ACUTE SUPPURATION OCCURRING IN GOUT. 711b. Section through a Knee-Joint, from a Gouty Patient in whom acute suppu- ration had taken place. The bones are bare of cartilage, rarefied, and superficially ulcerated, without any marked eburnation or lipping. The crucial ligaments are gone, the synovial membrane is thick, soft, and in parts destroyed by the suppuration. 1888 From a man, aged 49, who had suffered for seventeen years from gout. See Transactions of the Clinical Society, vol. xx., p. 232. Presented by Stephen Paget, Esq. 711c. The Distal End of the Metatarsal Bone and . the Proximal End of the First Phalanx of a Great Toe. The whole of the articular cartilage is encrusted with a deposit of urate of soda. 1890 From a man, aged 40, who died from cerebral hsemorrhage. See Medical Post-Blortem Booh, vol. xiv., p. 289.