119 DISEASES AND INJURIES OP THE PHARYNX AND (ESOPHAGUS. 1844a. (Esophagus, Trachea, Aorta, and Grlands. The oesophagus presents a large cancerous ulceration, whicli has extended through the anterior wall into the trachea. The opening from the oesophagus into the trachea is large and ragged ; it is divided by a septum which runs transversely across its centre. The glands are enlarged. 1884 For details of the case se3 a report by James Berry, Esq., in the St, Bartholonmv's Hospital Repoi'ts for 1884, vol. xx., p. 53. 1844b. A Larynx and CEsophagus affected with malignant disease. The new growth commenced in the oesophagus at a point somewhat below the level of the cricoid cartilage, and for a distance of an inch and a half it has narrowed the lumen to such an extent that a probe could only with the greatest difficulty be passed along it. The growth has softened anteriorly, and communicates with the trachea through the interval between the fourth and fifth rings by a large ragged opening. This opening, as may be seen by looking into the trachea, is surrounded by a raised edge of new growth. The mucous membrane is ulcerated for some distance. Microscopically the new growth was found to be an epithelioma. 1889 From a man, aged 57 years, who died shortly after his admission to the Hospital from broncho-pneumonia. See 3Iale Surgical Register, vol. iii. (1889), s. v. Thomas Paine. 1846a. (Esophagus, Pharynx, and Trachea. The oesophagus is contracted by a narrow ring of epitheliomatous cancer. 1884 The stricture was treated by the retention for ten weeks of a soft rubber tube similar to the one suspended by the side of the specimen. For details of the case see a report by James Berry, Esq., in the St. Barthohmem's Hospital Reports for 1884, vol xx., p. 49. 1846b. (Esophagus and Stomach, from a case of cancer of the oesophagus, in which gastrostomy had been performed eight months before death. The oesophagus is narrowed and ulcerated for a distance of three and a half inches above its cardiac extremity ; the ulceration has commenced at a point opposite the bifurcation of the trachea, and has extended downwards. It has not invaded the stomach. The ulceration at its upper part has perforated the walls of the oesophagus, and has exposed a bronchial gland, which appears as a black mark extending transversely across the tube. The cancer is of the scirrhous type. There were no secondary deposits, nor were the glands infiltrated. The stomach appears to be normal. The gastrostomy opening is situated at the lowest point in the greater curvature, midway between the cardiac and pyloric orifices. The skin with its orifice, and a portion of the costal cartilages adherent by the results of old inflammation to the greater curvature of the stomach, are left in situ. 1884 For details of the case see paper by T. Whitehead Reid, Esq., in the St. Bartholomew's Hospital Reports for 1884, vol. xx., p. 117, and Lancet, November 3rd, 1883. 1847a. (Esophagus and Stomach. Tlie oesophagus is ulcerated close to the point where it opens into the stomach by a cancerous ulceration. At a short distance above the stricture the softened wall has been perforated by a catheter. 1884 WOUND OF PHARYNX. 1863a. A Pharynx which has been laid open from behind to show the track of a stabbing wound inflicted by a pocket-knife. A black glass rod is placed in the wound, and passes between the main vessels of the left side and the larynx, just below the bifurcation of the common carotid artery. 1891