360 DISSECTIONS OF VARIOUS REGIONS OP THE HUMA.N BODY. 1334g'. A Sagittal Section tlirough the Riglit Orbit. The sclerotic has been pulled out of the capsule of Tenon, and the internal rectus and its intra-capsular ligament have been brought into view. The loose cellular tissue about the sclerotic is a portion of the tunica adventitia. 1887 1334h.. A Horizontal Section through the Left Orbit. The remains of the eye has been drawn out of the capsule of Tenon to show the intra-capsular ligament of the superior rectus, and also the bend which the muscle makes towards the nose inside the capsule of Tenon. 1887 The four preceding specimens were prepared and presented by C. B. Lockwood, Esq. 1336a. The External and Internal Surface of the Right Hemisphere of a Brain, on which the various centres and motor areas are indicated in different colours. Thus, a black line surrounds the centres for complex movements of the arms and legs. A red line surrounds the centres for movements of the hand and forearm. A blue line surrounds the centre for movements of the face. A green line surrounds the centre for speech. Red crosses indicate the centres for sight. Black crosses indicate the centres for hearing. Blue crosses indicate the centres for smell. 1891 1336b. Dissection of the Left Hemisphere of a Brain on which the motor areas and other localities are indicated. 1892 The numbers and areas are taken, as far as possible, from the diagrams of Professor Ferrier {Functions of the Brain, 2nd edition, p. 478). The Brains of a Monkey, Dog, and Cat are added for comparison. The explanation of the numbers taken from Professor Ferrier's book is as follows :— Human Brain (p. 480). 1. Movements of opposite leg and foot, such as are concerned in locomotion. 2, 3, atid 4. Complex movements of arms and legs (climbing, swimming, &c.). 5. Extension forwards of arm and hand. fi. Movements of hand and forearm in which the biceps is particularly concerned, viz., supination of hand and flexion of forearm. 7 and 8. Elevators and depressors of angle of mouth. 9 and 10. Movements of lips and tongue (Broca's convolution). 11. Platysma and retraction of angle of mouth. 12. Lateral movements of head and eyes, elevation of eyelids!, and dilatation of pupils. a, h, c, d. Movements of fingers and wrist. 13 and 13'. Vision. It. Hearing. Brain of Monhry (p. 240). 1. Advancement of opposite hind-limb, as in walking. 2. Flexion and outward rotation of the thigh, rotation inwards of the leg, with flexion of the toes. 3. Movements of tail. 4. Adduction, extension, and retraction of opposite arm, and pronation of hand. 5. Extension forwards of the opposite arm. a, t, c, d. Clenching of the fist. 6. Flexion and supination of forearm. 7. Ketraction and elevation of angle of the mouth. 8. Elevation of ala of nose and upper lip. 9 and 10. Opening of the mouth, with protrusion (9) and retraction (10) of the tongue. 11. Retraction of angles of the mouth. 12. Eyes open widely, pupils dilate, head and eyes turn to opposite side. 13 and 13'. Eyes move to opposite side. 14. Pricking of the opposite ear, head and eyes turn to the opposite side, pupils dilate widely. 15. Torsion of the lips and semi-closure of the nostril on the same side. Brain of Bog (ip. 250). 1. Opposite hind-leg advanced. 3. Wagging of the tail. 4. Ketraction and adduction of the opposite fore-limb.