7 SERIES VITI. ABIfORIAL COIDITIOIS OF THE &EMMTITE ORG AM CLASS v.—ARREST OF DEVELOPMENT. 3670a. The Testes, Scrotum, and Perineum from a Cryptorchid. In the left testicle there is a failure of attachment of the gubernaculum to the testicle and epididymis. The muscle, instead of being attached to these organs, spreads out, and terminates in a broad layer of peritoneum, which lay free in the peritoneal sac. The right testicle, which forms the upper specimen, is normal, except that the gland and epididymis seem longer than usual. The fibres of the gubernaculum pass up behind the testicle into the plica vascularis. The penis and scrotum show the undeveloped state of the latter, and the great apparent length of the perineum, which results from this condition. So far as could be ascertained, the lower attachments of the gubernaculum were normal, and on each side the processus vaginalis was about half an inch in length. 1887 Presented by C. B. Loekwood, Esq. CONG-ENITAL ABSENCE OF THE EXTERNAL GENITAL ORGANS AND ANUS. 3670b. A Three Months' Embryo, showing the small intestine and colon contained in an omental sac which has been slit open. The lower end of the sac is adherent to the anterior abdominal wall, just above the bladder, close to the umbilicus. One of the intestinal coils seems to blend with the abdominal wall in the same place. The testicles lie immediately above the inguinal ring, and appear to be normal. There is no trace of a penis, but there are two slight elevations marking the site of the two halves of the scrotum. The anus is completely absent, and it is uncertain whether there are any apertures which could give exit to the urine or faeces. 1887 Prepared and presented by C. B. Loekwood, Esq. 3670c. An Undescended Testicle, from a youth, aged eighteen years. The processus vaginalis had advanced three and a half inches beyond the testicle, which lay on the iliacus, and an inch beyond the external ring. The vas deferens has been dragged down to within an inch of the lower end of the processus vaginalis, and loops back again to the epididymis. A strong band of muscular fibres, under which a brown rod has been passed, is attached to the extremity of the loop, and can be traced upwards beyond the epididymis to the peritoneum lining the iliac fossa. Other striped muscular fibres, which represent the ascending cremaster, pass upwards from the abdominal wall along the processus vaginalis to the epididymis. A thin blue rod is placed under these fibres. 1888 Presented by 0. B. Loekwood, Esq.