ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE AXIS. 328 tains columnas carnea3 ; it is completely covered by skin derived from the thoracic walls, and formed a pulsating rod lying in front of, and parallel with, the sternum, attached by its two ends, and free in the middle. On the inner side of the right arm is a small fleshy papilla, situated half an inch above the bend of the elbow ; from the apex of this papilla a thin membranous band passes upwards to be inserted into the right gum of the upper jaw. The abdominal viscera and the remaining thoracic organs appear to be normal. There is a conus arteriosus, but the aorta gives off the usual number of branches in the proper order. 1889 The mother had previously borne a healthy living child. The second pregnancy, resulting in the birth of this monster, was normal ; the labour lasted six hours. Presented by Dr. C. R. Walker. SUB-CLASS v.—DEFECTIVE CLOSURE OF THE AXIAL CANAL OF THE CEEEBRO-SPINAL SYSTEM. 3472a. A section through the Head of a newly-born child, who has an occipital enccphalocele. The sac of the tumour is formed by the scalp and pericranium ex- ternally, and by the cerebral membranes internally, and a thin layer of brain sub- stance. The swelling is situated in the middle line between the occipital protruber- ance and the foramen magnum. It is connected by a narrow neck, which passes above the transverse fissure in the brain, with the greatly expanded lateral ventricle. The child also had a cleft palate. 1889 Presented by Stephen Paget, Esq. (c.) Spina Bifida. 3474a. The First Cervical Vertebra (Atlas) of an adult. There is a congenital absence of the tubercle at the summit of the posterior arch, causing an interval of nearly a quarter of an inch between the posterior ends of the laminaj. The deformity is not quite symmetrical, the end of the right lamina being rather shorter than the left. On the right side the groove for the vertebral artery has been converted into a foramen by a spicule of bone. 1893 From the dissecting rooms. 3479a. The dorsal, lumbar, and sacral regions from the spine of a child, showing that variety of spina bifida known as a meningo-myelocele. The neural arches are unclosed from the fifth lumbar vertebra to the end of the spinal column. The bodies of the vertebras are well developed, and the spinal nerves are normal. The wall of the sac is formed by skin and dura mater. The latter, which is continued uninterruptedly from the theca surrounding the spinal cord within the intact part of the neural canal, has been partially separated from the superjacent skin. The arachnoid is continued over the interior of the sac, the cavity of which corresponds to the sub-arachnoid space. The spinal cord is readily traced across the sac to its posterior wall, where the two become inseparably blended. The skin covering the posterior portion of the sac is softened, and appears to be sloughing. 1887 From a child who lived four days. The sac was ruptured during labour. 3479b. The dorsal, lumbar, and sacral regions, with the pelvis and femora of a child who had a meningo-myelocele. The sac, which was of the size of a small Tangerine orange, has been cut away upon either side to show the spinal cord. The wall of the sac is very thin. It contained some serous fluid and much recent lymph.