DISEASES AND INJURIES INCIDENTAL TO GESTATION AND PARTURITION. 261 LABOUR OBSTRUCTED BY A LARGE FIBROMA OF THE OVARY. 3091a. One Half of a Pelvis, the cavity of which is occupied by a large solid tumour of the right ovary, which has displaced the uterus upwards. The tumour arises from the outer part of the right ovary. It occupies the utero-sacral pouch, the lower part of which was distended with serum. The uterus and vagina, except for their position, present cliaracters usually found at the end of the first week after parturition. The uterus measures six inches in length, five inches in its greatest width, and one inch and a half in thickness. The placental site is represented by an area measuring four inches by two and a half. ' 1890 From a woman, aged 29, who was delivered by version after craniotomy at the end of her fourth pregnancy. The tumour, which was mistaken for the head of an extra-uterine fcetus, prevented the descent of the presenting head. Death occurred on the eighth day, from septiciemia. For more complete details see Transactions of the Obstetrical Society, vol. xxxiii. A drawing is preserved in Series Ivii., No. 964. Presented by W. S. A. Griffith, M.D. 3093a. A Sagittal Section through an Uterus, showing a piece of placenta adherent to its wall. The uterus is greatly thickened, tlie os is dilated and somewhat torn. The right ovary contains a corpus luteum. 1889 From a woman, aged 32, who died with vomiting three days after delivery. At the autopsy she was found to have fatty disease of the heart, liver, and kidneys. See MartlM Ward Booh for 1887, No. 215. 3094a. The Uterus of a woman, aged thirty-six, who died from pyaemia four weeks after the birth of her ninth child. A portion of the placenta is adherent to the posterior wall of the uterus close to the fundus, while floating free in the cavity is another small shred. 1883 3094b. The Uterus and surrounding structures of a woman who died from septicemia after childbirth. The uterus, which has been laid open posteriorly, measures, with the cervix, four inches in length. When fresh, the body appeared spongy, and pus could be squeezed out of several of the sinuses. The endometrium is flocculent and suppurating, the cervix is normal, and the left ovary and tube show no inflammatory changes. On the right side the ovary and the blood-vessels supplying it are suppurating, and all the venous channels, from the uterus to the vena cava inferior, are indurated and thickened as if thrombosed ; on section, it is seen that this is due to inflammation of the walls of the vessels. The right common iliac vein has been preserved, and contains a channelled coagulum, the end of which protrudes into the vena cava. 1892 From a primipara, whose mother and sister both suffered from phlegmasia doleus, who was delivered without assistance in Queen Charlotte's Hospital. Septic symptoms occurred early, but were not severe until the eleventh day. She died on the twenty-sixth day. Presented by W. S. A. Griffith, M.D. CYSTS OF THE PLACENTA. 3095a. A Placenta, showing numerous cysts beneath the amnion. 1890 A drawing is preserved in Series Ivii., No. 1013. 3102b. The Parietal Bones of a child, aged two and a quarter years, showing a well- marked depression of the outer table of the left parietal. 1885 The child was delivered by forceps, and it is supposed that the indentation was caused by this means. See Mary Wa/rd Book (1885), p. 468, and Post-Mortem Book, vol. xi., p. 355.