ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE DIGESTIVE ORGANS. 342 CLASS v.—ARREST OF DEVELOPMENT. CONG-ENITAL INTERRUPTION OF THE ALIMENTARY CANAL AT THE COMMENCEMENT OF THE JEJUNUM. 3635b. The Stomach and Intestines of a Newly Born Infant. The stomach is en- larged and considerably distended ; the duodenum is much lengthened and enor- mously distended. At this point the bowel, instead of being continued onwards as the jejunum, is suddenly arrested, and the hypertrophied duodenum, as a result of the great distension to which it has been submitted, passes downwards behind the ascending colon and caecum into the right iliac fossa, where there is a small opening made before death. At its commencement (marked by a small white rod) the jejunum is very small and collapsed, not being larger than a piece of whipcord ; it gradually assumes its usual calibre, and the bowel shows no other abnormality. 1893 The child (a female) was born at about the eighth month. It was fairly well nourished, but there was great hydramnios. It took the breast freely, but as nothing passed per anum the abdomen was opened on the third day. The distended duodenum was opened and stitched to the skin, and a large quantity of partly digested milk, faintly stained by bile, escaped from the opening. The vomiting ceased, but the child died about ten hours after the operation. Presented by Edward Little, M.D. CONGENITAL INTERRUPTION OF ALIMENTARY CANAL AT THE COMMENCEMENT OF THE ILEUM. 3635c. The Stomach and Intestines of an Infant, in which there is a Congenital Interruption of the Alimentary Canal at about the commencement of the Ileum. As a result, the last six inches of the small intestine above the closed end has become enormously dilated, so that its calibre is considerably greater than that of the stomach. The continuation of the gut after the interruption is marked by a small blue glass-rod. 1893 Presented by C. B. Lockwood, Esq. 3638a. Intestines with diverticula. 1884 3638b. Diverticulum in small intestine, about three feet from the ileo-c^cal valve. The diverticulum is of unusual size, measuring nearly two inches in length. 1885 3638c. A Meckel's Diverticulum. It occurred twenty-five inches from the ileo-csecal valve. There is a rudimentary mesentery with separate vessels attached to the diverticulum. 1890 From the Dissecting-rooms. Presented by C. Buttar, M.B. 3638d.. A Meckel's Diverticulum. It is over three inches in length, but has no mesentery. 1890 3638G. A Meckel's Diverticulum of the small intestine of a child who was born with an imperforate rectum. 1891 The rectum is preserved in Series xix., No. 2079c. Presented by Stephen Paget, Esq. (b.) Imperforate Anus. 3639a. The Eectum and Bladder of a male child with imperforate anus. The rectum terminates about a quarter of an inch above the anus, and is dilated into a sac of considerable size. 1889 Prom a child, aged five days, upon whom the operation of Littre's colotomy had been performed. See Surgical Post-Mortem Booh for 1888, p. 41.