SERIES IV. ABIORIAL COOITIOSS OF THE VASCUIAE, SYSTEM. (I,) Of the Blood-Vbssels. CLASS I.—VARIATION. 3525a. The Arch of the Aorta, giving off its brauches in the following order— (1) The right common carotid, (2) the left common carotid, (3) the left subclavian, and (4) the right subclavian. The right common carotid passes obliquely across tlie trachea immediately above its bifurcation, whilst the right subclavian arises from the back part of the descending portion of the arch, and passes behind the two large bronchi just after the trachea has bifurcated. 1888 3528a. The Arch of the Aorta, giving off an extra branch, viz., the left vertebral. The vessels arise in the following order—(1) The innominate artery, dividing as usual into the right subclavian and right common carotid arteries, (2) the left common carotid, (3) the left vertebral, and (4) the left subclavian artery. 188,6 From the Dissecting-rooms. Presented by H. E. Knight, Esq. 35281b. The Arch of the Aorta, from which four main trunks are given off. The abnormal vessel is the left, vertebral, which arises from the transverse part of the aorta between the left common carotid and the left subclavian arteries. It passed through the foramen in the sixth cervical vertebra, and pursued the usual course. The arch of the aorta is somewhat more abruptly curved than usual. 1888 From the Dissecting-rooms. RIG-HT AORTIC ARCH. 3535a. Dis:section of a Foetus, showing a right aorta given off from a heart naturally placed and of apparently normal formation. The several branches given off from the arch are as follows :—1st, The left carotid, which follows the usual course ; 2nd, right carotid, so closely applied to the former that they almost arise from a common trunk ; 3rd, the right subclavian; 4th, the left subclavian, which is given off from the third portion of the aortic arch, and passes behind the trachea and oesophagus to get to its natural position on the first rib behind the scalenus anticus muscle. The veins in relation to these parts are quite normal. On the left side, the recur- rent laryngeal nerve is looped around the ductus arteriosus from l>ehind forwards, and passes to its usual supply. On the right side the recurrent laryngeal passes