DISEASES AND INJURIES OF ARTERIES. 84 aortic aneurysm, and presents on its anterior surface several small perforations which communicate with the sac. The oesophagus was compressed by the subclavian aneurysm, and dysphagia was produced. 1881 The patient, a man, aged 46 years, died of li?emoptysis shortly after admission to Hospital. 1512a. Heart and large vessels, with Tongue, Larynx, and Trachea. The right sub- clavian artery is dilated into two aneurysmal pouches. The proximal is the larger of the two, and is almost tilled with laminated clot. The posterior inferior wall, how- ever, has given way, allowing it to become diffuse. It presses upon the right common carotid artery, and during life simulated an aneurysm of that artery. The trachea is considerably flattened, as a result of the pressure excited by the aneurysm. The distal aneurysm is smaller, and is situated on the posterior wall of the subclavian ; it has been nearly obliterated owing to the pressure exerted by the larger aneurysm. 188.5 See Female Surgical Register, vol. iv. (1884), No. 050. F., !Et. 62. Suffered pain in right arm and shoulder for seven months previous to death. A modified Tufnell's treatment was adopted. 1518a. The Right Middle Cerebral Artery with a small aneurysm on one side of its trunk. The aneurysm has ruptured and a glass rod has been passed through the laceration. The rupture has occurred at a point in the artery which is situated immediately beyond its first bifurcation. 1887 From a man, aged 54, who was found in a stupid condition a week before his death. When brought to the Hospital he had well-marked left hemiplegia, with some rigidity of his right side. Twelve years previoxrsly he was said to have had two attacks of paralysis, and at the post-mortem examination a small cyst was found on the left side of the brain, marking the site of previous heemorrhage. See John Wai-d Buok for 1887, and 3Iedical Pust-Mortevi Book, vol. xiii,, p. 292. 1518b- The Middle Cerebral Artery of the Eight Side. Just beyond the bifurcation of the central branch is a longitudinal rent in the vessel, which seems to be slightly dilated at this point. 1891 From a man, aged 43, who died on the day after admission into the Hospital. The aortic and mitral valves were both diseased, and there was the scar of an old infarct in the spleen. See Medical Fost-Mnrtein Register, vol. xvii., p. 328. 1530a. Arteries removed from the base of the brain. Two small aneurysms are well seen, one situated upon tiie basilar artery, between the posterior cerebral and the superior cerebellar arteries ; the second upon the right anterior cerebral immediately behind the anterior communicating branch. Nearly all the vessels have undergone calcareous degeneration. The hsemorrhage occurred from the left posterior com- municating artery, which is seen to be much smaller than the right. 1884 The specimen is taken from the brain of a woman who was admitted to the Hospital in a semi-conscious state with left hemiplegia, and conjugate deviation of the eyes to the right. 1532a. The Abdominal Aorta, showing an aneurysm situated an inch above its * bifurcation. The aneurysm is sacculated, and measures two inches and a half in length by one inch in breadth. It is filled to the level of the vessel with firm clot. The iliac vessels are very atheromatous and calcareous. 1888 From a man, aged 87, who was admitted for an injury to the left hip. See Male Surgical Register, vol. i. (1887), No. 1878. 1534a. An Aneurysm of the pancreatico-duodenalis artery. The sac is situated at the head of the pancreas, and is more or less globular in shape, measuring about two inches in the longest diameter. It has been laid open, and shows a considerable amount of clot adherent to the posterior wall. 1891