182 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE KIDNEYS, all the calyces. The organ itself is dilated to about three times its ordinary size, whilst the ureter is much thickened and dilated. {Cf. 2355a.) 1888 From a man, aged 30, who was admitted to the Hospital with a suppurating bursa patellfe. His urine was found to be loaded with pus, but he did not complain of any urinary trouble. About a week after his admission he had suppression of urine and died. See Male Surgical Register, vol. iv. (1888), No. 1372. 2346a. The Kidneys of a Child, containing calculi. The case is of interest, as, notwithstanding the size of the calculi and the large amount of injury which they have caused to the kidney substance, there was no suspicion during life that they existed. The child died of pneumonia. 1884 2347a. A Kidney, in the pelvis of which a Calculus is impacted, as in No. 2317. The calculus is apparently composed of uric acid. The parenchyma of the organ is slightly thinned, but otherwise normal. 1881 Taken from the body of a female, aged 79 years, who had been almost entirely confined to her bed for six years, owing to pain in the right loin and flank, associated with ilio-lumbar herpes. Presented by J. Brickwell, Esq. 2347b. A Dilated, Sacculated Kidney. The orifice of the ureter is entirely occluded by a stone about the size of a small bean. The calyces are destroyed, and only a very thin piece of the cortex remains. 1884 SPECIMENS ILLUSTRATING THE REMOTER EFFECTS OF RENAL CALCULUS. 2351a. The lower specimen is a Left Kidney, containing several Calculi. Though not much enlarged, it is greatly disorganised, and, owing to the long-continued irritation and inflammation, is surrounded by dense fibrous tissue, which has firmly united it to the neighbouring structures. A light green glass rod has been placed in a sinus where a calculus has ulcerated through into the descending colon. The upper specimen is a portion of the lower lobe of the left lung firmly united to the diaphragm, which again was adherent to the kidney. X blue glass rod shows where a sinus, also caused by a calculus, led through the diaphragm into the substance of the lung, there causing the formation of an abscess, which proved fatal. Since each sinus led into the pelvis of the kidney, there was a direct communica- tion from the abscess in the lung through the diaphragm and kidney into the descending colon. 1892 A drawing of the parts, when fresh, is presented in Series Ivii., No. G32. For notes of the case see Male Surgical Register, vol. v. (1890), No. 3520. 2354a. A large mass of Fat, formed around an Ureter which contained a Calculus. The adjacent tissues were thickened by chronic inflammation. The opposite half of this specimen is in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons. 1882 2355a. The Right Kidney, from a case in which suppurative nephritis occurred in both organs, owing to the presence of calculi. The kidney is enlarged to nearly three times its normal size. The glandular portion is converted into a number of cysts, whilst the pelvis is completely obliterated by a dense growth, which is found, on microscopic examination, to consist of inflamed fat and fibrous tissue. A small oblong calculus of uric acid completely blocks the upper part of the ureter. The ureter, near the kidney, is constricted, but as it passes downwards it gradually dilates, until it attains nearly four times its natural diameter. 1888 The left kidney is preserved, as a specimen, in No. 2345b. 2358a. The Right Kidney, in a condition of acute inflammation, resulting from the presence of calculi in its substance and the obstruction of its duct by the impaction of a calculus. The organ is greatly dilated, so that it forms a lobulated cyst; and