SERIES XXVIII. DISEASES A.m INJURIES OE THE KIBIETS, THEIR PELTES, AlfD THE URETERS. AMYLOID DEGENERATION. 2331b. Amyloid disease of the Kidney, treated with iodine. The organ is slightly enlarged, and presents numerous brown dots, especially in the cortical portion, the result of the application of iodine. 1883 2331c. Section of a Kidney, which has undergone lardaceous or amyloid degenera- tion. The degenerate tissue is darkly stained with iodine, 1887 2331 d. A Section of a Kidney, stained with iodine to show the portions affected with amyloid degeneration. 1889 INFARCTS. 2331 e. A Kidney, showing numerous depressed and puckered scars, the result of infarcts. The other kidney was similarly alfected, but neither was materially enlarged. 1890 From a woman, aged 25, who died of ulcerative endocarditis. She was in the Hospital for three months, and the urine always contained a considerable amount of albumen. There were similar infarcts in the spleen. The heart is preserved in Series vii.. No. 1299d, and the spleen in Series xxv., No, 2295b. See also Series viii.. No. 1538b. See Female Surgical Register, vol. i. (1889), No. 939. HYPERTROPHY OF A SINGLE KIDNEY. 2331 f. A Right Kidney and Ureter, with the Bladder. There is a congenital absence of the kidney, ureter, and vesicula seminalis in the left side, with compensatory hyper- trophy of the right kidney. This weighs nine ounces, and with the exception of the fact that it is rather more lobulated on the surface than usual, it is quite normal. Microscopically, its structure shows no pathological change. 1893 From a young man, aged 21, who died from acute peritonitis after herniotomy ; the hernia (inguinal) occurred on the right side. The left supra-renal body, as well as the right, was of normal size and appearance. See Surgical Post-Mortcin Register for 1889, p. 33. 2331 g". A specimen somewhat similar to the preceding (No. 2331f). In this case the development of the right kidney and ureter has been arrested, the kidney being represented only by a small amount of fibrous tissue, flattened and oval in shape, and measuring about one and a half inclies in its longest diameter. A small renal artery and vein enter the undeveloped hilum, from which the ureter emerges by tliree distinct channels, which coalesce. At a point two inches nearer the bladder, the right ureter becomes impervious, and is continued for another two inches as a solid fibrous cord. Below this point it again becomes pervious, and is continued on as a hollow tube till it reaches the base of the bladder ; at this point it does not