224 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE SKIN AND ITS APPENDAGES. It is circular in shape, and projects from the surrounding skin uniformly for about one-third of an inch : the centre is pigmented and only slightly depressed. 1891 It corresponds both in situation and microscopical appearance (squamous-celled epithelioma) with the "crateriform ulcer" described by Mr. Jonathan Hutchinson in the jr;'awsflC^M»«.s (»/ the Pathological Society, vol. xl., p. 275. See Male Surgical Register, vol. iv. (1890), No. 359.5*. A microscopical section is preserved ia Series Iv., No. 535. 2717a. A Recurrent Tumour, removed from the Scalp. It is nodular, and has infiltrated the deep tissues. The section shows that it consists of a dense white tissue. Microscopically, ifc is an alveolar carcinoma. The stroma is exceedingly scanty ; the alveoli are large, and are packed with epithelial cells. The surface of the epithelium is not involved. The growth appears to have originated in some of the glandular structures of the skin. 1888 See Male Surgical Register, vol. iii. (1888), No. 1244. Sections of the primary and recurrent growths are preserved in Series Iv., No. 529. 2717b. A Portion of Skin, removed from the back of a woman, aged thirty-one, to which is attached a solid button-shaped growth with smooth surface, devoid of epithelium. Its cut surface is uniform in character. Microscopical examination showed it to be a fibro-sarcoma. The tumour had been slowly growing for six years. 1890 See Female Surgical Register, vol. v. (1890), No. 337. 2719a. A Melanotic Sarcoma, removed from the Scalp. The tumour consists of a rounded mass the size of a walnut, slightly lobulated on its surface, and attached to the skin by a broad pedicle ; at its base, and also in the surrounding skin, are a number of smaller sessile growiihs the size of large peas, some of which are distinctly pigmented. The principal growth does not show any pigmentation : it does not invade the deep layers of the scalp. 1891 From a man, aged 28. The growth was first noticed six years previously : it was then removed, but slowly recurred ; it occupied the situation of the bregma ; the occipital and deep glands of the neck were slightly enlarged. A microscopical section of one of the smaller nodules showed the usual structure of a melanotic sarcoma. See Male Surgical Register, vol. iii. (1889), No. 2556. RODENT ULCER. 2720a. A Rodent Ulcer, removed from the face of a man, aged twenty-eight. It had been slowly growing for fourteen years : the lymphatic glands were not affected. 1891 See 3Iale Surgical Register, vol. iv. (1890), No. 2657. 2720b. A Rodent Ulcer of the Scalp, removed from the top of the head of an old gentleman, aged seventy-five. The centre of the growth is greatly excavated, and the edges heaped up and indurated : it has penetrated through tlie whole tliickness of the scalp as far as the pericranium. It had been slowly growing for three years: the lymphatic glands were not affected. 1891 Microscopical examination showed a large amount of cell ingrowth. The cells were mucli larger than is usual in rodent ulcer, being rather of an "encephaloid " type. There were no '■ nest cells." Microscopical specimens are preserved in Series Iv., No. 533. Presented by Stephen Paget, Esq. 2720g. a Rodent Ulcer, removed by operation from the back of the neck, where it liad existed for twculy-six years. The lower part of the growth is covered over by