281 GENERAL PATHOLOGY. The patient was an old woman. Amputation was performed just below the knee (see Series xlix., No. 3189b), from which she recovered, but died not long afterwards from second- ary deposits in the thorax. Microscopical sections are preserved in Series Iv., No. 741. See Female Surgieiil Register, vol. v. (1891). No. 2545*. 3295a- Portion of a Foot, with a mixed round and spindle-celled sarcoma occupying the sole ; its section has a fibrous appearance. The epidermis covering the tumour is thinned and penetrated by a small aperture ; beneath this, blood is effused into the substance of the tumour. 1881 The foot was removed by amputation. 3299a. A Tumour, removed from the Leg, which is said to have occurred at the seat of a recent fracture. It is composed of a number of small rounded bodies the size of small peas, held together by fibrous tissue. Under the microscope these bodies show the appearance of a fibro-sarcoma. 1890 Presented by Dr. Palmer, of Newbury. 3300a- A Rounded Tumour enclosed in a strong capsule, which was removed from the pectoral region of an old man. On section, the tumour is seen to be of a soft gelatinous consistency, which is in parts hemorrhagic. In parts, too, there are large degenerative cysts, which, in the fresh state, were filled with a blood-stained fluid. Microscopically, the growth is a fibro-sarcoma. (C/^ 1174b.) 1888 From a man, aged 71. The tumour had only been noticed for three or four months before its removal. It formed a solid elastic swelling beneath the right pectoral muscle. The tumour was moveable on the ribs, and the skin was not adherent over it. There were no enlarged glands. When it was exposed, it was seen to grow from the deep fascia beneath the pectoralis major. It was surrounded by a strong capsule, and, after removal, the ribs were not found to be bare. The patient had no family history of tumour. There were no enlarged glands. See Transactions of the Pathological Society, vol. xxxix., p. 305. Presented by S. Paget, Esq. " WITHERING SARCOMA." 3302a. One Half of a Tumour, removed from the Scalp of a Young Man. Similar tumours bad appeared and subsequently disappeared without operation ; its structure is that of a fibro-sarcoma. 1891 A wax model of a similar tumour, growing near the scar from which this one was taken, is preserved in Series Ivi., No. 212b, to which refer for further details. Drawings are preserved in Series Ivii., Nos. 1232 and 1232a. See also Male Surgical Register, vol. v. (1890), No. 972. 3318a. Melanotic Epithelioma on the tip of the middle finger. 1883 From a woman, aged 54 years, who said she had noticed, what she called, a corn on her middle finger for four years ; it was always black, and had grown more rapidly for the eighteen months previous to the time she came under notice. A small nodule, the size of a pea, of a similar nature, was situated under the skin of the back of the hand, where she had noticed it one montlr. The axillary glands were enlarged. The patient died with dis- seminated growths ten months later. On microscopical examination the growth was found to be composed of round and oval cells of a connective tissue type, amongst which granules of pigment were thickly scattered. Microscopical sections are preserved, No. 759 ; also a drawing in Series Ivii., No. 1281. 3318b. A Portion of a Melanotic Growth, removed from the sole of the foot of a Hindu. The growth is circular in outline and is flat. It has the appearance of having burst through the cuticle, which it slightly overlaps at its edges. It measures about two inches in diameter. The surface is smooth, shining, and coal- black in colour. Microscopically, it presents the appearance of a melanotic alveolar sarcoma. The alveoli, as well as the stroma, contain spindle and round cells. Most