SERIES XXII. See Medical Post-Mortem Register, vol. xiv., p. 113. DISEASES km IIJTJRIES OF THE &ALL BIADDEE AID BILIART DTJCTS. 2247a- Portion of a Liver, with the Gall-Bladder, in the neck of which a calculus is lodged. The walls of the gall-bladder are considerably thickened. 1882 2247b. The Gall-Bladder with a Portion of the Liver. The cystic duct is blocked by a small gall-stone which lies at the commencement of the duct. The walls of the gall-bladder are somewhat thickened and show traces of inflammation. 1889 From a woman, aged 52, who died with morbus cordis. The liver was chronically con- gested, and she had emphysema. See 31edioal Post-Mortem Reguter, vol. xv., p. 8. 2248a. A Portion of the Eight Lobe of the Liver with the Gall-Bladder. The cystic duct and gall-bladder are both greatly distended, owing to the impaction of a calculus in the'former just after it leaves the gall-bladder. In the fresh state the gall-bladder contained four ounces of clear mucus and a large number of small biliary calculi. 1888 2263a. A greatly Thickened and Ulcerated Gall-Bladder. Its internal surface is in many places thickly covered with a fine, mud-like, dark brown deposit of choles- terin, though no distinct gall-stones are present. Near the fundus are numerous small circular ulcers, the size of a split pea or rather less ; one of these, larger and deeper than the others, had perforated the walls and caused acute and fatal peritonitis. 1892 From a man, aged 67. See Medical Post-Mortem Register, vol. xvii., p. 285b. 2264a. A Portion of a Liver with an enlarged Gall-Bladder, part of the wall of which, together with the duct, has been removed in order to show a mass of malig- nant disease in its interior. The walls of the gall-bladder are irregularly infiltrated with the growth, which varies from a quarter of an inch to an inch in thickness : the free surface is ulcerated, and has a flocculent appearance ; the deep parts are more consolidated : at the upper part, i.e., that nearest the cystic duct, there is much less growth, and the ulcerated surface is discoloured by small particles of pigment. The growth had extended directly into the liver, but there were no separate deposits in that organ. The lymphatic glands in the hilum, together with some of the lumbar and mesenteric glands, were affected. The gall-bladder con- tained numerous small gall-stones, which are preserved in the next specimen. 1890 Microscopical examination of the more solid parts showed the growth to consist of scirr- hous carcinoma. A section is preserved in Series Iv., No, 325. From a man, aged 67, who had been accustomed to pass gall-stones for some years.