206 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE BRAIN AND ITS MEMBRANES. 2499c, A Brain infiltrated with numerous Sarcomatous Tumours, from a case in which sarcomata were also found involving the spinal cord. A large tumour in- volves the optic commissure ; another is visible on the under surface of that portion of the corpus callosum which is turned downwards. Sarcomatous growths are also seen in the anterior cornua of the right lateral ventricle, and in the third ventricle, just behind the anterior pillar of the fornix. They also occurred in the dura mater, round the internal auditory meatus on either side. 1887 For further details of the case see Series xxxi.. No. 2541a. SYMMETRICAL TUMOURS OF THE CEREBRAL HEMISPHERES, WITH SOFTENING OF THE CORONJE RADIATJE. 2499d.. A Series of Sections of the Cerebral Hemispheres. The upper half of the brain has been removed by a horizontal section made about the level of the basal ganglia. Vertical sections of this portion have then been made, and have been arranged in the following order, from above downwards :— Left side. Right side. Pediculo-frontal. Frontal. Parietal. Pediculo-parietal. Occipital. Occipital. The healthy white matter is seen to be coloured light-green, whilst the grey matter of the convolutions is brownish-green. The tumour is represented by the granular brownish patch in the centre of the corona radiata. The softened white matter in the immediate neighbourhood of the tumour is of a waxy-yellow colour ; it is best seen in the left parietal section, which is the third section from the top on the left- hand side of the specimen. The tumour is seen to extend throughout the sections as a long track of disease in the white matter of both hemispheres. It is roughly club-shaped, broadest opposite the motor convolutions, and tailing ofif into the occipital lobes. 1889 From a man, aged 31 years. His symptoms on admission to the Hospital were of two days' duration, and consisted of headache, fever (a temperature of 102° F.), and a tendency to sweats. There followed stiffness of the neck and back, terminating in rigidity and opis- thotonus, optic neuritis, gradual coma, right hemiplegia, and death in about five weeks. Microscopically, the tumour proved to be of a sarcomatous nature. See Transactions of the Pathological Society, vol. xl., p. 19. See TmIw Ward Book for 1888, No. 107. INTRACYSTIC SARCOMA OF BRAIN. 2500a. The specimen consists of a portion of the Right Hemisj^here : situated in the posterior part is a well-marked flattened cyst, measuring two inches in diameter and containing a soft flocculent growth : under the microscope this was found to be a sarcoma of a very vascular nature ; the rest of the cyst contained a pale yellow fluid ; the specimen was hardened in Miiller's solution. 1892 The patient was a man, aged 42. For further details see Medical Post-Mortcm Register, vol. xvii., p. 112. SARCOMA OF THE CEREBELLUM. 2501a. A Round-celled Sarcoma, involving the inferior vermiform process of the cerebellum. The tumour has encroached upon the amygdalse on either side, and has scooped out for itself a cavity in the substance of either lateral hemisphere. 1886 M., set. 86. Admitted into Blark Ward on January 28th, 1885. He had suffered from pain in the back of his head for twelve months. In the August preceding his admission he had constant vomiting, lasting for ten weeks. When first seen, he was torpid and sleepy. He had long suffered from fibroid phthisis in both lungs.