101 PLEURA, BRONCHIAL TUBES, AND LUNGS. From a man, aged 24, who had an attack of pleurisy five years previously : shortly after admission to the Hospital five pints of pus were removed from his chest. Three months later he developed signs of phthisis, and soon afterwards died. See Matthew Ward Bouk for 1884, p. 1555. 1704b. Section of a Lung from a case of diffuse symmetrical pulmonary cirrhosis. The lung tissue is traversed throughout by numerous intersecting greyish fibroid strands, which appear in places to follow the lines of the interlobular septa. 1887 From a woman, aged 37, who had always been healthy until twelve months before her death. She first suffered from retching, vomiting, and cough with thick yellow expectoration. At a later period she spat up a little blood. On admission she had scattered crackling rales over the right apex and over the whole side behind. The breath sounds were harsh and almost tubular at the apex, with bronchophony. A section of the lung is preserved in Series Iv., No. 172. See Transactions of the Pathological Society, vol. xxxvii., p. 126. Presented by Percy Kidd, M.D. 1704c. A Section of a Lung which is in a condition of gangrene. The lower lobe is almost consolidated by the products of inflammation, and about its centre tlie pulmonary tissue has broken down into a pulpy, flocculent mass, which is circum- scribed. Immediately above the large gangrenous patch is a smaller one which presents identical changes. 1889 1704d.. A Portion of the Right Lung, from a patient who had a pneumo-thorax. A piece of india-rubber tubing has been passed along a bronchus from the root of the lung to the opening, which is situated at the lower part of the superior lobe on its postero-lateral surface. The lung itself is much contracted, and is covered with inflamed and thickened pleura. 1889 From a man, aged 30, who had long suffered from a winter-cough. Three days l)efore his death he suddenly became very ill, and on admission to the Hospital he was found to be almost pulseless and cyanosed. with hurried respirations. He was too ill to allow any detailed examination of his chest to be made. See iVattliew Ward Booh for 1887, No. 281. 1707a. A Portion of the Lower Lobe of the Lung of a man, aged fifty, who died from hemoptysis. The majority of the air vesicles and bronchi are seen to be filled with blood, but the lung does not appear to have undergone any structural change. The hfemorrhage was capillary, and no plug was found in any pulmonary vessel. 1888 Presented by Vincent Harris, M.D. 1707b. A Portion of the Lower Lobe of the Right Lung, which is of a bright red colour owing to the filling of its air-cells with coagulated blood. The branches of the pulmonary artery are plugged, and there is some coagulated blood in the larger bronchi. 1889 From a woman, aged 31, who died from the effects of mitral stenosis. See Medical Post-3Iortem, Register, vol. xiv., p. 296. 1711a. Portion of the Lower Lobe of a Lung of a Child. On the cut surface is seen a well-marked recent infarct. There are also two small abscess cavities with ragged walls. The whole of the pleural surface is covered with a thin deposit of coagulated lymph. 1890 See Male Surgical Register, vol. v. (1889), No. 958. 1711b- The Lung of a Child, aged ten, who died of pysemia following acute periostitis of the tibia. Both on the pleural and on the cut surface numerous small abscesses are plainly seen. 1891 See Female Surgical Register, vol. i. (1889), No. 2582,