SERIES XXVII. DISEASES OP THE SUPEA-REIAL BODIES. 2320a. The Supra-renals of a Child, into the siibstauce of which extensive hiemor- rliage has occurred. The glands have been laid open ; behind and between them is a portion of the abdominal aorta. 1891 From a child, aged seven months, who died of whooping-cough. See Medical Pust-Mortem Register, vol, xvii., p. 68. 2321a. The Kidneys and Supra-renal Capsules, from a case of Addison's disease. The substance of both supra-renal capsules is completely destroyed by tubercular disease. Microscopical examination showed the presence of typical miliary tubercle, but no bacilli were discovered. The kidneys appear to be healthy. 1887 From a boy, aged 14, who had been ill for twelve months preceding his death. He had well-marked bronzing of his skin, but there was no evidence of tubercular disease during life. Presented by T. K. Atkinson, Esq. 2322a. The Supra-renal Capsules, from a woman who died with xVddison's disease. The organs are large and firm, the right being larger than the left, and measuring two and a quarter inches in length. On section, the right capsule is seen to contain numerous yellow patches, each of which is surrounded by a bluish-white tissue, cutting like cartilage, and closely resembling it in apjiearance. The yellow patches appear to consist of caseous material, but they are hard and firm, cutting like horn. There is no normal tissue remaining, so far as can be seen by the naked eye. The left capsule is apparently affected in a similar manner, but the yellow material is not so marked, and is confined to the medullary portion. Microscopically, the degenerating portions of the gland were tubercular, and contained tubercle bacilli. 1889 From a married woman, aged 23 years, the mother of four children. She had been ailing since the birth of the first child, six years previously. On admission to the Victoria Park Hospital, she was found to be suffering from phthisis. Her complexion was sallow, but the skin of her face, neck, arms and hands were tinted of a light brown. There were numerous bright brownish-black spots covering the tinted area. The spots did not disappear on pressure. They were especially well marked about the ears, cheek, and neck, and they appeared in crops. Two months after the admission of the patient she was seized with excessive vomiting, which lasted for four days, when she became comatose and died. At the autopsy a small consolidated patch was found at the apex of the right lung, but with this exception the lungs and all the other thoracic and abdominal organs were healthy. See Transactions uf the Pathological Society, vol. xl, p. 300. Presented by V. D. Harris, M.D. 2326a. A Kidney and Supra-renal Capsule, from a patient who died of Addison's disease. The capsule has degenerated into a mass of caseous material, and is considerably enlarged. 1882 A microscopic examination showed the existence of true tuberculosis. Sections are preserved in Series Iv., No. 361.