194 DISEASES AND INJUEIBS OF THE URINARY BLADDER. that they consisted of myxomatous tissue, in which are numerous oval connective tissue corpuscles. The muscular coat of the bladder is inflamed, but not ulcerated. 1888 From a boy, aged nine years, who had incontinence of nrine for four months before his death, and who suffered great pain in his hypogastriura and loins. The pain was worse on defiBcation and when he passed his water voluntarily. It was also increased by exercise and jolting. The urine, which passed in a full stream, was very foetid, and contained albumin, urates, and pus. No stone was discovered on sounding, but a soft mass was felt in the region of the trigone. He passed blood in his water only on one occasion. At the autopsy the kidneys were found to be much enlarged, and the pelves and calyces were dilated. The glandular substance was dark red, with numerous patches of suppuration. The capsule was thickened and easily separated, whilst the ureters were dilated to the size of the little finger. See 3Iale Surgical Register, vol. ii. (1887), Nos. 183 and 1908, and St. BartJiolomem's Hosi)ital Bejjorts, vol. xxiii., pp. 236-238. PAPILLOMA OF THE BLADDER. 2417b. A Bladder, showing a new growth, which is situated on the left side of the organ, immediately above the orifice of the ureter. The greater portion of the growth was removed, before the death of the patient, by the operation of supra-pubic cystotomy. The rest of the bladder appears to be healthy. Microscopical examina- tion showed that the tumour consisted of branching processes of fibrous tissue covered by a single or by several layers of oval epithelial cells. 1889 From a man, aged 45, who was kicked over the pubes five years before his death. On the day following the injury he passed blood in his urine for the first time, and continued to do so until he died, two days after the performance of the operation. At the autopsy a consider- able quantity of clotted blood was found in the bladder. A section of the growth is preserved in Series Iv., No. 398. See Male Surgical Register, vol. v. (1887), No. 3276. 2417C. A Portion of a Bladder, containing a Villous Papilloma. The right side of the organ is covered by a low sessile villous growth ; there is no solid tumour, but a crop of delicate filamentous processes covers a patch about the size of a penny. Immediately above the growth, as the specimen is slung in the bottle, is the stump —covered by clot—of another part of the tumour, which had been removed shortly before the death of the patient. The mucous membrane of the bladder is blood- stained and pouched, whilst the vesical wall is hypertrophied. 1889 From a man, aged 60 years, who had been passing blood with bis water for the last four years. For some time one, or even two, months intervened without hajmaturia, but during the three weeks preceding his death the bleeding was incessant. He died of syncope two days after the portions of growth preserved in the next specimen had been removed by a supra-pubic incision into the bladder. 2417d. Portions of a Villous Tumour, removed from the bladder preserved in the preceding specimen. The tumour was removed by supra-pubic incision. 1889 This, with the preceding specimen, was presented by Stephen Paget, Esq. 2418a. A Bladder, in which there is a Villous Papilloma of about the size of a hazel nut, attached by a flat ribband-like pedicle to its posterior wall, immediately to the outer side of the right ureter. 1889 From a man, aged 59, who died of hematuria. See Male Surgical Register, vol. i. (1888), Nos. 2146 and 2550. SARCOMA OF THE BLADDER. 2419a. A Bladder, containing a large Sarcomatous Tumour. The organ has been laid open along its anterior wall, and its cavity is seen to be obliterated, except at its upper part, by a large new growth, which has infiltrated its anterior and lateral walls, as well as the fundus. The portion of the growth which occupies the cavity of the bladder is a cauliflower-like and tuberous mass. By the extension of the growth posteriorly the rectum has become involved, and close to the anus the growth