14 DISEASES OF BONES. tumour had grown within the sixth right rib, just below the angle (see No. 3313). Series L. contains also two myeloid tumours from the same patient.—Sec an account of the case by Mr. H. T. Butlin in the Transactions of the Path olog leal Society, vol. xxxi., p. 271; also Hurley Ward Book, vol. v., p. 305. 289c. The Other Half of the Eight Femur macerated. The corresponding half of the cavity in the head of the fenmr (shown in the jjrecediug specimen) may be observed. The cancellous tissue of the neck is extremely thinned by absorjjition, and the compact layer is perforated by large, irregular apertures. The wall of the shaft is very porous, has a chalky appearance, and is somewhat thinned at its lower extremity. Absorption of the compact external layer is commencing just above the internal condyle. 1881 MOLLITIES OSSIUM. 293a. A portion of the Thorax of an Old Person, showing the changes which result from Osteomalacia. 1886 (In Case E.) From an old female subject brought for dissection. 293b. The Right Ilium and Femur, showing a condition of Mollitios Ossium com- bined with Osteo-Artliritis, from a patient who was said to be more than a hundred years of age. The os innominatum is extremely thin and friable, whilst the acetabulum and head of the femur present the "lipping" which is characteristic of osteo-arthritis. 1888 (In Case F.) From a woman who was brought to the Hospital for dissection. 293c. An extremely Atrophied Pelvis, showing a condition of MoUities Ossium. The bones are so light and porous as to resemble a sponge, whilst the pelvis is so " beaked " that the ascending rami of the ischium are parallel with each other. 1889 (In Case F.) From an old subject who was brought to the Hospital for dissection. 296a. A Calvaria which has undergone much thickening. The inner surface is not corrugated. 1885 (In Case F.) For further details see Post-Mortvm Book, vol. si., p. 174. 296b. A Calvaria much thickened, apparently as a result of Syphilis. 1885 (In Case F.) 312a. The Calvaria from a case in which many of the joints were ulcerated in an unusual manner. A little below and behind the right parietal eminence is a circular ulcerated patch tilled with caseating material. The patch closely resembles a gumma, and it was in connection with tlie subjacent roughened and bare bone. A similar but smaller and fii-mer mass is situated more anteriorly on the left parietal bone. The membranes are adherent to the inner table of the bone in the neighbourhood of both these patches. Microscopically each patch consists of a small-celled growth, inflammatory in character. There is much young connective tissue, some of which has undergone caseation. 1886 From a boy, aged 18, who was admitted with multiple periosteal abscesses and synovitis of both knees. He had previously been operated upon for the removal of dead bone from his tibire. There was no history attainable of congenital or of acquired syphilis. The patient had suffered from disease of the bones for about eight years before his death. At the autopsy, all the joints which vi^ere examined were found to be diseased, each containing an excessive quantity of inspissated synovial fluid. The liver weighed 10 lbs. 9 oz. Its surface was scarred, puckered, and contracted. Under the microscope it was found to have undergone almost typically the changes which result from amyloid degeneration ; but without any increase of fibrous tissue. The spleen was enormously enlarged, weighing more than three