SERIES XII. DISEASES AND IMTJEIES OE THE IfOSE, lOIJTH, TOlf&TJE, PALATE, AlfD EATJCES. 1760a. A large Lobulated Growth removed from the Nose of an old man, where it liad been growing for several years. The surface of the tumour is thickly studded with the orifices of enlarged sebaceous follicles. A cut section is firm and fibrous, but in places contains sebaceous material. 1883 A microscopical examination showed that the tumour consists of enlarged sebaceous glands held together by fibrous tissue. Sections are preserved, Series Iv., No. 183. 1768a. A large Lobed Naso-Pharyngeal Polypus removed from a girl. It is composed of soft fibrous mucous tissue. 1883 1768b. A Myxomatous Naso-Pliaryngeal Polypus, measuring about three inches in length, and with a base which is nearly an inch in breadth. The part which occupied the right nasal passage is firmer and whiter, and is somewhat constricted off from the remainder of the polypus. 1887 The growth was removed by avulsion from a woman, aged 33, in whom it had been growing for three years. See Female Surgical Register, vol. v. (1886), No. 2743*. 1769a. A Large Naso-Pharyngeal Polypus, removed by avulsion from a girl. It consists of myxomatous tissue, with a little fibrous tissue. 1884 A section is preserved in Series Iv., No. 186. 1770a. A Large Naso-Pharyngeal Polypus, two inches in its long diameter by one and a half in breadth. Its cut surface is firm and fibrous, and its base of attach- ment broad and very vascular. The tumour grew from the bones at the base of the skull, and was removed through an opening made in the roof of the mouth. The patient was a boy, aged fourteen years, and made a good recovery. 1883 On microscopical examination, the growth was found to consist of sarcomatous cells mixed with a good deal of loose connective tissue. Presented by Thomas Smith, Esq. 1770b. A Large Lobed Naso-Pharyngeal Polypus, measuring two inches in breadth and nearly three inches in length. It was removed by avulsion from a man, aged sixty-five, in whom it had been growing for the preceding fourteen years. 1886 1772a. Section of a Skull with the Brain in situ. The antrum is occupied by a large and tolerably firm growth, which has extended upwards into the orbit, and inwards I