209 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE BRAIN AND ITS MEMBRANES. 2513a. A Section of a Brain, affected with internal hydrocephalus. The lateral ventricle is so greatly distended as to form an arched cavity measuring nearly two inches across at its widest part. 1889 From a boy, aged 18 years. 2521a. An unusually fine example of a Skull, from a case of chronic hydrocephalus. Tlie fontanelles are seen to be widely open, and the bones in several places present patches of cranio-tabes. 1886 From a male child, aged sixteen months. There were no signs of rickets. The brain was enormously dilated, and contained more than five pints of fluid in the lateral and third ventricles. The iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculum was closed ; there did not appear to be any increase of fluid in the central canal. (In case D.) See Transactions of the Pathological Societij, vol. xxxvii., p. 366. 2523a. The Left Cerebral Hemisphere, showing extensive laceration of the under surfaces of the frontal and temporo-sphenoidal lobes. The pia mater has been ex- tensively torn, and the cerebral substance in the neighbourhood of the lacerated portions is contused. 1888 From a builder, aged 26, who fell twenty-five feet. He had a fracture of the skull extend- ing across the right frontal, parietal, and occipital bones, and passing through the petrous portion of the temporal to the foramen lacerum medium. See Male Surgical Register, vol. v. (1887), No. 519. 2523b. The lower part of the Eight Hemisphere of a Brain, showing extensive laceration and destruction of the brain substance. The anterior part of the superior temjDero-sphenoidal convolution and the island of Reil are the regions that are most affected. A large, recent clot occupies the cavity formed by the loss of brain substance. 1891 The patient was a young man, aged 25, who was struck with a knuckle-duster on the right temple, the blow causing a compound depressed fracture over the situation of the middle meningeal artery. The skull was trephined at this situation (see next specimen), and the wound washed out. He went on favourably until the seventh day after the accident, when his temperature suddenly rose, and he died. At the post-mortem examination it was found that the base was not fractured, nor was there any htemorrhage between the skull and dura mater. See Male Surgical Register, vol. iii. (1889), No. 3528. 2523c. A portion of the right Temporal Bone, showing the piece of bone which was removed by the trephine in the preceding specimen. The groove for the middle meningeal artery lies over the middle of the disc of bone. 1891 ATROPHY OF CONVOLUTIONS AFTER TREPHINING. 2523d.. The anterior portion of a Brain, showing marked atrophy of the right frontal convolutions. 1893 From a man, aged 61, who died on the third day after having been run over by a van. Twelve years previously he sustained a compound comminuted fracture of his right frontal bone, for which he was admitted into Guy's Hospital ; he was trephined and several fragments of bone were removed ; this left a considerable depression over the seat of injury with atrophy of the corresponding convolutions. See Male Surgical Register, vol. i. (1889), No. 3485. PISTOL-WOUND OF THE CRANIUM. 2524a. A Skull, with the Brain in situ, prepared in such a way as to show the course of a bullet fired upwards from the mouth. The bullet has traversed the hard palate, the ethmoid and the frontal portion of the brain, leaving a track along which a black rod has been passed. The bullet was extracted from an abscess which formed twenty days after the injury behind the coronal suture ; the remains of it are still visible. Tlie lateral ventricle was not opened. The layers of arachnoid