DISEASES OP THE MAMMARY GLAND. 272 tumour, with a bossy outline anJ a sense of elasticity, or almost of fluctuation, in parts. There was no glandular affection, and the skin was not implicated. The whole breast was amputated. The patient made a good recovery, but ten months after the operation a small nodule had reappeared at the inner end of the scar. This was also removed, but there was still no implication of the glands. A section of the growth, from the first recurrence, is preserved in Series Iv., jSTo. 676. See Female Siirgical Register, vol. v. (1887), No. 902. See also St. Bartholomew's Hos2ntal Reports, vol. xxiv. (1888), p. 266, Case 5. 3186c. A Cystic Tumour, removed from the breast. The cyst is formed by the dilatation of one of the milk-ducts ; a small pedunculated papillomatous growth sprouts into its cavity. This growth, when it was fresh, resembled a ripe raspberry, being bright-red in colour. On the surface of the cyst are ten or twelve smaller growths, none larger than a pin's head, and all sessile. The wall of the cyst was quite thin and membranous. Microscopically, the growth presented all the appear- ances of a duct cancer. 1889 From a woman, aged 39, mother of five children. Sixteen months before her admission into the Hospital she had a miscarriage. For seven months, she stated, she had noticed a small lump in her right breast, and for six months there had been a discharge from her nipple. On examination of the right breast, a tumour, as large as a hazel nut, was found to exist just beneath the nipple. It was globular in shape, and elastic. Whilst it was being examined to detect fluctuation, about half a drachm of slightly blood-stained serous fluid escaped, and the tumour at once diminished in size. A microscopical section of the growth is preserved in Series Iv., No. 678. This specimen was formerly described as 3159b. See Female Siirgical Register, vol. iv. (1886), No. 1342. See also St. Bartholomew's Ilosjntal RejJorts, vol. xxiv. (1888), p. 263, Case 1. 3186d.. A portion of the Left Mammary Gland, containing a cyst with thickened walls. A papillated growth springs from the inner side of one wall of the cyst. Microscopically, the growth has the characters of a duct papilloma. 1889 From a married lady, aged 55. Three months before removal she had sudden swelling of both breasts, with heat and pain after exposure to cold. Two very hard nodular lumps were noticed in the left breast. The breasts were large and well developed. Presented by G. Lowe, Esq., per Sir James Paget, Bart., F.E.S. 3186e. A Small Cyst, containing a Duct Papilloma, removed from the mammary gland ; it is very similar to No. 3186c. There is a small lobulated growth, the size of a small bean, attached by a narrow stalk to the cyst wall. It consists principally of laminated blood-clot covering a small papilloma. 1890 From a boy, aged five, in whom it had been noticed for three months. See Male Surgical Register, vol. v. (1889), No. 3276. A drawing of the specimen, when fresh, is preserved in Series Ivii., No. 1049. 3187a. A small Papillomatous Tumour, removed from the nipple of a woman, aged thirty-five, who had noticed the growth for many years. It was attached by a very narrow pedicle. 1882