269 DISEASES OF THE MAMMARY GLAND. more fixed to the deeper structures. These, with the tumour, were freely removed. The microscopical examination of the ulcer ami of the lymphatic glands showed both to be typically carcinomatous. The patient made a good recovery, but underwent a second operation for two recurrent nodules in the skin at the end of twelve months. Microscopical sections are preserved in Series Iv., No. 603. Presented by A. A. Bowlby, Esq. 3179a. A Scirrhous Carcinoma of the Mammary Gland, which has ulcerated through the skin, and now forms a large fungating tumour. The mass is flattened, nearly circular in shape, and measures five inches across its longest diameter. Before removal it was diagnosed as a sarcoma from its general appearance, but subsequent microscopical examination showed that the structure was that of a scirrhous carcinoma. 1892 The patient was a woman, aged 67. The tumour had grown very rapidly, and had reached its present size in nine months, One gland in the axilla had become infiltrated, and was removed at the same time. A drawing of the tumour, before removal, is preserved in Series Ivii., No. 1040. See Female Surgical Register, vol. iv. (1H91), No. 918. CANCER FOLLOWING ECZEMA OF THE NIPPLE. 3181a. Section of a Breast. The nipple and the surrounding skin are excoriated and eczematous, the former being retracted to such an extent as to be almost below the level of the surrounding integument. Beneath the nipple the substance of the gland is indurated and hardened by chronic inflammation, while at the margin of the breast is situated a small mass of scirrhous cancer. 1882 From a woman, aged 36, who had had five children, allot whom shesuctled. Both breasts had been frequently the seat of cracked nipples, and twelve months belbre coming under notice the eczematous condition seen in the specimen showed itself. For account of case see Lucas Ward Book, vol. viii., p. 62. Microscopical examination showed the nipple itself to be the seat of scirrhous cancer. The surrounding skin, and that part of the indurated breast immediately subjacent to the nipple, showed only the ordinary appearances of chronic infiammation, whilst the tumour of the margin of the gland was of a typically cancerous nature. 3181b. Section of a Breast. The surface of the nipple is irregular, excoriated, and eczematous. It is deeply retracted below the level of the surrounding integument, and blends with a small, firm mass of scirrhous cancer, not larger than a walnut. The whole breast appears to have atrophied, for there is no trace of glandular structure, its place being taken by a quantity of fat. 1883 The patient was a woman, aged 49, who had suffered from eczema of the nipple for three years ; the tumour in the breast had been noticed about twelve months. Two years after the operation, there had been no return of the growth. Presented by W. C. Everley Taylor, Esq. 3181c. A Female Mamma. The nipple is retracted ; the areola eczematous. In the substance of the breast, immediately beneath the areola, is a small oval mass of scirrhous cancer. 1884 From a woman, aged 31, who had suckled nine children without any breast trouble. The eczema was of three years' duration ; the tumour of four months. At the time of the operation the glands were enlarged. For further details see President Ward Book, vol. ix., p. 384. 31 Sid. A Female Mamma. The areola around the nipple is, eczematous, the epidermis being removed, but there is no ulcerated surface. Beneath the nipple the breast tissue is indurated, though it is otherwise normal. At the margin of the gland is a firm scirrhous carcinoma rather larger than a walnut. 1884 From a woman, aged 45, mother of four children, the last of whom was born three years before the appearance of the cancer. After the birth of the third child, the nipple was sore, T 2