SERIES XXXII. OR&AITS OF aEIfEMTIOIf IIT THE EEIAIE mMM OR SHORTLY AFTER PRE&MICY, WITH SPECIIEIfS ILLTJSTRATIlf& THE DETELOPIEITT OF THE OTUl. 1196a. An Early Human Ovum, probably of the first month, mounted in glycerine jelly. It consists externally of a thin translucent chorion having villi upon its external surface. They are nearly evenly distributed, the largest measuring about three-sixteenths of an inch in length. A portion of the chorion has been removed, exhibiting a thin translucent membrane within it, which is very much smaller, and is separated from the inner surface of the chorion by a space which was filled with thin fluid. Within the amnion is a small opaque spot, which is less than one- sixteenth of an inch in length, and is presumably the embryo. 1889 Presented by Clement Godson, M.D. 1196b. Two Small Human Ova of the first month. The layer consists of a villous chorion ; the smaller one is also covered by chorion, but the villi are extremely minute. The smaller ovum has been laid open. 1889 Presented by Clement Godson, M.D. 1207a. Decidua from the Uterus in the second month of pregnancy. 1884 From a woman who had missed one menstrual period. Presented by W. S. A. Griffith, M.D. RUPTURE OF THE UTERUS. 1234a. A Portion of the Posterior Wall of the Uterus of a Primipara, who died on the fourth day after C^sarian section had been performed in Queen Charlotte's Hospital. The operation was rendered necessary by the contracted condition of the pelvis, and it was done twelve hours after the commencement of active labour. The section is made through the whole length of the uterus, from the fundus to the external os, and is nine inches in length : half an inch above the external os is seen the vaginal insertion. The different characters of the upper thickened portion, measuring six inches in length, and of the lower thin portion, three inches in length, are well seen. The upper retracted portion, measuring from three-quarters to an inch in thickness, is about four times as thick as the lower portion ; the line of junction of the two—known as Bandl's ring, or the contraction-ring—is well marked. The internal surface of the upper part is shaggy, with fragments of placenta, whilst the lower part is smooth, and presents, both to the naked eye and under the microscope, all the characters of the cervix, the transition being abrupt at