202 DISEASES AND INJUEIES OF THE BRAIN AND ITS MEMBRANES. post-mortem examination a large irregular haemorrhage was found in the right cerebral hemisphere. The origin of the hsemorrhage was evidently the tumour situated upon the surface of the right angular gyrus. The hfemorrhage extended from the surface of the brain to the posterior part of the internal capsule, and had neither burst into the lateral ventricle nor externally. The spinal cord and other organs of the body were quite healthy. See Lithe Ward Booh for 1887, No. 159 ; St. Bartholomew's Hosjjital Reports, vol, xxiii., pp. 179-181 ; Transactions of the Pathological Society, vol. xxxix., p. 4. 2468a. A Tumour of the Cerebellum, involving the median portion of its under surface. It measured three and a half inches in length, and widely separates the two lateral lobes. Anteriorly, it extends as far as the pons, whilst behind it reaches almost to the free margin of the cerebellum. Its upper surface lies on the under aspect of the median lobe, which is much compressed and flattened. It grew from the pia mater. Examined by the microscope, it was found to be a round-cell sarcoma. 1885 F., iet. nine. Suffered from violent attacks of vomiting a year before death. Double optic neuritis, partial blindness, and slight incoordination of muscles in walking occurred in August, 1884. In January, 1885, complete blindness, but the optic neuritis has not passed into atrophy ; vomits once a week ; severe frontal headache. Death, February, 1885. On opening the skull, the inner table, in the region of the occipital protuberance, was rough, as if from chronic osteitis, but with no adhesion of the dura mater ; on removing the brain, a large quantity of cerebro-spinal fluid escaped. The floor of the third ventricle was translucent and much expanded owing to the quantity of fluid. Lateral ventricles enormously dilated. Foramina of Monro large enough to admit the end of the little finger. Third and fourth ventricles and aqueduct of Sylvius enlarged ; the optic thalami about one inch and a quarter apart. Foramen of Magendie undiscoverable. The vense Galeni were not pressed upon by the tumour. A section is preserved in Series Iv., No. 435. Presented by J. L. Hewer, Esq. 2468b. The Dura Mater, from a case of partial perforation of the skull by a sarcoma of the brain. The membrane presents numerous clean-cut perforations answering to the holes in the skull. 1888 The calvaria is preserved in Series i.. No. 549a. See also the Transactions of the Patholorjical Society, vol. xxxix., p. 1. 24S^SL. Section through a Pons Varolii, into the left side of which there has been an extravasation of blood, extending from the level of the inferior corpora quadri- gemina to the upper part of the medulla. The maximum htemorrhage is near the upper part of the fourth ventricle, whose floor it has destroyed. At this level the hffimorrhage extended outwards on the left side into the middle crus cerebelli for nearly an inch. Within the nerve-substance the hemorrhage is strictly limited to the left half. The origins of the fifth, seventh, and eighth nerves are involved ; the sixth is not involved, but appears to be subjected to pressure. The motor track is not involved. 1889 From a widow, aged 38 years, who was admitted to the Hospital suffering from hemiplegia. There was incomplete palsy of the right leg and arm. The tongue pointed strongly to the right; all the muscles on the left side of the face were paralysed. There was no rigidity or aphasia. The deep reflexes were normal. The patient was a gin-drinker. Slic was suddenly attacked with giddiness, and became unconscious ; on recovery she was paralysed. After admission to the Hospital, she was found to have some anfesthesia of the right side, and she had a down- ward squint of the left eye. See iMary Ward Booh for 1888, s.v. M. Baxter. 2483a. Part of a Medulla Oblongata and Cerebellum, with the surrounding parts. Between the pons and cerebellum, and extending into the fourth ventricle, is a blood-clot. 1882 The patient was brought to the Hospital dead, with the history that he had fallen off a cab, and immediately expired.