62 DISEASES AND DEFORMITIES OF THE SPINE. FRACTURE-DISLOCATION OF THE SPINAL COLUMN. 1164a. The Sixth and Seventh Cerncal aad Five Upper Dorsal Vertehrfe, in v^hich, as the result of a severe accident, there has occurred a fracture-dislocation at the junction of the cervical and dorsal regions, with a coniminnted fracture of the body of the fourth dorsal vertebra and fracture of the third and fourth dorsal spines. The specimen has been sawn through longitudinally a little to the right of the middle line, exposing the membranes without encroaching on the spinal cord. It is seen that the cord has been completely severed opposite the upper injury, and that it is also crushed and compressed opposite the lower. 1892 From a man, aged 44, who was brought dead to the Hospital. See Surgical Post.Mortem Register, 1887, p. 177. 1166a. The Right Half of the lower Six Cervical and all the Dorsal Vertebra;. A severe injury, followed by caries, had occurred at the junction of the cervical and dorsal regions, and the laminfe and spines of the first three dorsal vertebrae were subsequently removed by operation for the relief of paraplegia caused by compression. The cervical and dorsal vertebra are firmly ankylosed at the junction of these regions, and there is a considerable angular curvature with loss of substance resulting. A small round cavity, the size of a pea, which contained inspissated pus, is seen in the posterior part of the body of one of the vertebras, which, on counting up from below, is found to be the fourth dorsal ; on counting down from above, the remains of the bodies of the sixth and seventh cervical, and of the first, second, third, and fourth dorsal vertebra are all united into one piece after the absorption of a considerable amount of bony substance. The intervening intervertebral discs have disappeared ; the fourth cervical disc is unusually thick. The specimen is suspended partly from one of the tubercles on the bifiJ spine of the seventh cervical vertebra (vertebra prominens) : in the space from which the lamina; have been removed the spinal cord is much flattened antero-posteriorly. 1890 From a boy who, at the time of his death in October, 1889, was 13 years of age, and had the following history :—In 1883 part of an old wall fell on him, and he was then admitted as an inmate into the Hull Infirmary for three weeks, suffering from paraplegia following the injury ; the paraplegia lasted thirteen months, and then completely disappeared, leaving an angular curvature at the junction of the cervical and dorsal regions. During these thirteen months an abscess formed in the neck and discharged for six months. The boy completely recovered, and could run and jump like other boys, though some diflSculty in micturition, which had come on with the paraplecjia, remained. In the early part of January, 1889, pain returned, followed shortly by paraplegia, and on January 28th, he was again admitted into the Hull Infirmary under Mr. Henry Thompson ; he rapidly got worse and on February 13th, under chloroform, the laminfe and spinous processes of the two upper dorsal vortebrre were removed. He made a good recovery, and left the Infirmary on July 24th ; he remained quite well, and recovered so completely that he was able to stand on his head ; on September 2oth, he went for a bathe, and was re-admitted on September 28th, suffering from croupous pneumonia, of which he died on October Gth, 1889. For a further description of the case see Lancet, 1889, vol. ii., pp. 315 and 727. Presented by Hemy Thompson, Esq.