UEINARY CALCULI. 292 161a- One half of an Urinary Calculus containing a double excentric nucleus, com- posed for the most part of uric acid with some calcium phosphate. The outer part, of a reticulated appearance, is composed of phosphate and oxalate of calcium. It weighed 230 grains. 1891 The calculus was removed, by supra-pubic cystotomy, from a little boy, aged five, who had had symptoms of stone in the bladder for several months. He made a good recovery. See Male Suvfjical Begistev, vol. iii. (1890), No. 3413. 165a. Section of a large Circular Stone, thickly and irregularly encrusted with jdiosphates intermixed with a little calcium oxalate. It weighed 4 oz. 6 drs., and was removed from a Mussulman, aged sixty-five years. The nucleus consists of oxalate of lime surrounded by urate of ammonia, which is succeeded by another layer of oxalate of lime surrounded by urates, the whole being invested by a deposit of phosphates intermixed witli a little oxalate of lime. 1888 Presented by T. Odling, Esq. 169a. One half of a cystic Oxide Calculus, removed from a boy, aged four years. The calculus is oval in shape, and measures one inch and an eighth in length by an inch in breadth ; it weighed 159 grains. The surface of the stone is crystalline, and has a remarkable translucent and waxy appearance, but it has not the green colour which characterises the other specimens of cystin preserved in the Museum. It is of the colour of light honey. 1889 The patient had symptoms of urinary trouble for nine months. He made a good recovery after the operation. 169b. The Opposite Half of the preceding specimen. 1889 Presented by A. A. Bowlby. Esq. CALCULI CONSISTING OF OXALATE OF LIME AND PHOSPHATE OF LIME. 172a. Portion of a Small Calculus, consisting of phosphate of lime with a small proportion of uric acid. The calculus is crystalline in structure, and is very brittle. The portion which is preserved weighs six grains. 1888 From a boy, aged 18, who had suffered with symptoms of renal calculus for about two years. The calculus was removed by the operation of nephro-lithotomy from the pelvis of the kidney, where it lay near a large and hard pliosphatic stone. See Male Surgical Register, vol. iii. (1888), No. 3643. 172b. A Small Crystalline Urinary Concretion, weighing four grains. It consists of crystals of oxalate of lime and calcium-phosphate. 1888 From a gentleman, aged 43, whose urine had often been loaded with lithates. The con- cretion gave no evidence of its presence until it became impacted in the urethra. Presented by H. W. Gell, M.D. 188a. A Collection of Calculi. In the majority of cases the stones were removed by the operation of lateral lithotomy. Presented by T. F. Odling, Esq., resident in Shiraz, Persia. (a.) An Oval Stone, weighing 23 grammes. It was removed by lateral lithotomy, from Kherrim, aged 19, who had symptoms of stone for twelve years. On passing the stall previous to the commencement of the operation, a small flattened calculus, weighing a gramme, was found lying in a pouch of the urethra. The operation was performed on August 26th, and the patient was discharged cured on Sep- tember 25th. (6.) Four Calculi, weighing 70.7 grammes. Removed by lateral lithotomy from a boy, aged 17, who recovered from the effects of the operation in twenty-five days.