204 DISEASES AND INJUEIES OF THE BRAIN AND ITS MEMBRANES. 2486c. The anterior halves of the Lateral Hemispheres of a Brain. Beneath the left frontal convolutions the substance of the brain has been excavated by a large abscess, a part of the walls of which has been removed to show the cavity thus formed. This tracked backwards towards the lateral ventricle, and the two spaces now communicate, the thin separation between them having been broken since the brain was removed. There is also marked bulging of the left frontal convolutions on the inner aspect of the hemisphere, accompanied by a corresponding depression on the right side. 1891 The patient was a man, aged 25, who was admitted into the Hospital suffering from erysipelas of the left side of the forehead. The inflammation spread to the frontal bones, and thence to the frontal sinuses, causing a localised necrosis both of the horizontal and orbital plates (see next specimen), and spreading through the former to the dura mater and the brain, with the formation of the abscess described. See Male Surgical Register, vol. iv. (1890), No. 582. 2486d.. Portions of the Left Frontal Bone, from the same case as the preceding specimen (to which refer). Small openings, into which bristles have been passed, with ragged, uneven edges, resulting from ulceration, exist in the outer table and in the horizontal and orbital plates. The lining membrane of the frontal sinuses is thick and of a velvety appearance. 1891 2487a. The Cerebellum, showing the site of a localised abscess in the left lobe, resulting from a fracture which extended transversely through the externa] auditory meatus and tympanum, as well as through the petrous and mastoid portions of the temporal bone. Pus was also diffused through the temporal bone, and the internal auditory meatus, with the seventh pair of nerves, was implicated in the suppuration. The membrana tympani was entirely destroyed. 1887 From a man, aged 43, who fell off a mail-cart on to his head, sustaining a fracture of the base of the skull. On admission he could answer questions, there was haMnorrhage from the left ear and left nostril. The pupils were equal, and he passed water naturally, but there was paralysis of the left side of the face. Three days after the accident the discharge from his ear became purulent and subsequently foetid, and the patient died a fortnight later. • See Male Surgical Register, vol. ii. (1886), No. 3410. 2492a. A series of five sections taken through the Pons Varolii, showing a deposit of Tubercular Material. The sections are taken at the following levels, each being seen from the under side :— i. Below the pons, through the superficial origin of the auditory nerve. ii. Through the fourth ventricle, at the level of the striaj acusticm. iii. Through the lower part of the pons, at about the level of the superficial origin of the facial nerve. iv. A little below the centre of the pons, and through the upper part of the fourth ventricle, at the level of the superior fovea. V. Through the pons and upper part of the fourth ventricle, at the level of the superficial origin of the fifth nerve. The tubercular material is seen to be scattered irregularly through the deeper parts of the pons. Before the sections were made, the tumour projected as two small nodules on the right side of the floor of the fourth ventricle, just above the auditory stria?. The specimen was hardened in Miiller's reagent, some of the colour of which still remains. 1890 From a man. aged 40, in whom no other evidences of tubercle could be found. See Medical Post-Mortem Register, vol. xv., p. 294. See also Pathological Society's Reports for 1890. The Morbid Growth Committee of this Society reported that the tumour was tubercular in nature.