271 DISEASES OF THE MAMMAKY GLAND. occurred in each of these cysts, the contents have largely undergone degenerative changes, and have fallen out from the two lower cysts when these were incised. There is flattening of the nipple. 1893 From a woman, aged 59. She hacl noticed the tumour for two years. The axillary glands were extensively involved, Microscopical sections are preserved in Series Iv., No. 659b. See Female Swrgical Register, vol. i. (1891), No. 1063. 3185a. Colloid Cancer of the Breast. 1884 .From a woman, aged 55, the mother of one child. The tumour had been noticed for four months. The mother of the patient died of cancer of the breast; the father of stricture of the oesophagus. At the time of the operation the lymphatic glands were not definitely enlarged. Sections are preserved in Series Iv., No. 673. 3185b. A small Colloid Cancer of the Breast. 1884 The colloid cells are well marked ; the matrix is undergoing hyaloid degeneration. Sections are preserved in Series Iv., No. 674. 3185c. Portion of a Breast, affected with colloid cancer. 1885 F., fet. 35. Growth first noticed four years previously. For further details see Female Surgical Register, vol. i. (1884), No. 1P48. A section is preserved in Series Iv., No. 675. 3185d. A portion of a Breast, containing a small mass of a recurrent colloid cancer. The mass is circular in outline, and measures three-quarters of an inch in diameter. It is situated about a quarter of an inch below the nipple. It has a well-defined outline, and contains a considerable quantity of new growth, which has not yet undergone any colloid change. 1889 From a woman, aged .S9, in whom the primary growth of colloid cancer was first noticed nine years previously. The recurrent growth was observed a year after the first operation. See Female Surgical Register, vol. v. (1888), No. 1668. 3185e. A portion of a Mammary Gland, the seat of Scirrhous Carcinoma, showing two small areas of Colloid Degeneration. On the cut surface there are also seen numerous dilated ducts, some of which still contain caseous material. The nipple is much retracted. 1892 The patient was a woman, aged 56, who, on admission, was found to be suffering from tumours of both mammary glands, with a history of six months' duration. Both breasts were removed, and both were carcinomatous ; one showed the simple encephaloid variety, the other colloid degeneration. See Female Surgical Register, vol. i. (1891), No. 80. 3186a. Portion of a tumour of a female Breast, which had undergone colloid de- generation. It consists of loculi filled with colloid material and gelatinous, shreddy connective tissue. Its precise nature could not be ascertained. 1881 Presented by Sir William S. Savory, Bart., F.R.S. DUCT CANCER. 3186b. Portion of a Breast, with two recurrent nodules of duct cancer, one of which is situated in the fat outside the breast tissue. The masses are circular, and measure a third of an inch in diameter ; they are situated in a dense stroma of fibrous tissue. Each mass is dark-red in colour, and consists of soft and very friable new growth. Microscopically, the growth presented all the characters of a duct cancer. 1889 From a single woman, aged 43, who had noticed lumps in her breast for four or five months. There were no enlarged glands. The tumours were removed through incisions made into the breast. Three years later the patient returned to the Hospital, saying that a year previously the swellings had reappeared. The breast was at this time occupied by an irregular lobulated