PERICARDIUM AND OF THE HEART. 73 are occupied by large masses of fibrinous material, containing a quantity of calcareous matter. The endocardium immediately below the valves is ulcerated in places. The patient had an aneurysm of the gluteal artery, probably of embolic origin. 1890 The aneurysm is preserved in Series viii., No. 1538b ; the spleen in Series xxv., No. 2295b ; and one of the kidneys in Series xxviii., No. 2331e. See Female Surgical Register, vol. i. (1889), No. 939. 1299e. A Heart affected with Ulcerative Endocarditis, in which there is also a communication between the left ventricle and the right auricle, though whether this opening is congenital or the result of ulceration is uncertain. At the base of the posterior aortic valve is a ragged ulcer, surrounded by irregular fibrinous deposits. There are also two other small ulcers of the endocardium near this region. Immediately above the valves are several patches of calcareous degeneration. 1890 From a man, aged 48, wh'o was admitted into the infirmary of St. George's-hi-the-East, complaining of general malaise and pains in the body and limbs. This was accompanied by high temperature (101°-102° F.) at night. He died a fortnight after admission. Presented by H. E. Harris, M.B. 1299f. A Heart which has been laid open so as to expose fully the Left Auricle and Ventricle. The auricular surface of both mitral valves is covered with a mass of thick vegetations, of almost fleshy consistency when fresh, and which nearly blocked ■ the auriculo-ventricular orifice. Another large mass is attached to the ventricular aspect of one of the aortic cusps. The cavities on the left side are slightly dilated, but the walls are not hypertrophied. The right side is unaffected. 1892 See Medieal Post-Murtem Register, vol. xviii., p. 51. 1300a. A Heart from a case of tetanus. A fringe of small, semi-transparent pinkish growths lines the free edge of the mitral valve. Many of the growths are very small, though two are slightly larger than the rest. None of the cords are thickened. Two of the aortic valves are adherent, but not to so great an extent as to permit regurgitation to take place. The posterior valve is fenestrated. The pulmonary and tricuspid valves are normal. 1888 From a man, aged 33, who was only ill a fortnight before his death. His illness began suddenly after exposure to cold. See JIattJu'w Ward Booh for 1887, No. 19. 1302a. A Heart showing the effects of Ulcerative Endocarditis. The heart is liypertrophied, weighing twelve ounces. There are large soft fibrous growths on all tlie aortic valves, and on the posterior valve is a shallow ulcerated spot as large as a silver penny. Upon the aortic surface of the mitral valve there is a small growth, and in the substance of the valve is a nodular swelling. 1886 See Medical Post-Mortem Book, vol. xi., p. 246. 1303a. Portions of the Left Auricle and Ventricle of an Adult Heart. The mitral valve is thickened, and its cusps are fused into a single circular membrane, which projects into the auriculo-ventricular opening in the form of a tense ring. 1886 1304a. A Heart from a case of Chronic Endocarditis. As a result of the long- continued inflammation, there has been a fusion of the cusps of both the mitral and tricuspid valves, to such an extent as to produce well-marked stenosis of both auriculo-ventricular orifices. The heart weighs eighteen ounces. The right auricle was much dilated, and its walls were very thin. The right ventricle was dilated, and its wall? were thinner than normal. The left auricle was much dilated, but the left ventricle was of normal size and thickness. 1888 From a girl, aged 17, who had an adherent pericardium and cirrhosis of the liver. During life the patient had a well-marked double mitral murmur. There was no history of rheumatism. See Faith Ward Bouli for 1887, No. 166.