DISEASES OF THE OVARIES. 244 parts of the tissue are much less dense, and are of looser texture than others, which are hard and nodular. The less dense portions are undergoing mucoid degeneration, and are probably the first stages in the formation of the cysts. The cysts are simply cavities bounded by dense connective tissue ; they have no epithelial lining ; they contained a large quantity of thin greenish straw-coloured alkaline fluid, which coagulated spontaneously. 1888 From a woman, aged 47, who had been married fourteen years, and was the mother of three children, the youngest being seven years old. The tumour was first noticed five years before she applied for relief. It was situated in the lower part of the abdomen, and after remaining nearly stationary for two years, it began to increase rapidly in size. The patient developed, whilst she was in the Hospital, a large pelvic abscess, which caused an attack of acute intestinal obstruction, but the abscess eventually discharged itself per vaginam. A good recovery was made after the performance of ovariotomy. See Martha Ward Booh for 1888, No. 25. 2929a. Portions of the Ovaries, mounted in glycerine jelly. The ovaries present the appearance of a cystic chorion, being composed of translucent and pedunculated papillary growths, which, on microscopical examination, proved to be a myxo- sareomatous growth, the peculiar cystic appearance being due to myxomatous degeneration, which is not truly cystic. 1887 From a woman, aged 48, who died with canceri of the abdominal wall and hydro, peritoneum. See Hajje Ward Booh for 1885, No. 237 ; Medical Post-Mortem Booh, vol. xii., p. 154 ; and Transactions of the Obstetrical Society, vol. xxviii., p. 180. 2930a. The Pedicle of an Ovarian Tumour, showing the manner in which the tissues, divided by a ligature, unite over it, as it cuts its way through ; by this means the ligatured portion of the pedicle is vascularized, and sloughing is avoided. The situation of the ligature is indicated by a deep sulcus, opened at one part by a piece of glass rod ; the distal portion of the pedicle was here, as elsewhere, adherent to the proximal portion. Another piece of glass rod is inserted beneath the silk hgature, where it passes through the pedicle. 1881 From a woman, who died on the third day after ovariotomy. Presented by Albau Doran, Esq. 2930b. A portion of the anterior wall of the Abdomen, showing the wound made in the operation of laparotomy. The edges of the wound in the skin are firmly and evenly united, and the wound in the peritoneum is indicated only by a depressed line covered with a little lymph. 1881 From a woman, who died a few days after laparotomy. Presented by Alban Doran, Esq. 2930c. The Uterus, and part of the Abdominal Wall, of a woman from whom the left ovary had been removed five years previously, the pedicle having been clamped outside the abdomen. The specimen shows a great elongation of the uterus, which was dragged up by the tension on the pedicle, so that its cavity measures four and a half inches in length, that of the cervix being two and a half, A bristle had been passed along the left Fallopian tube into an opening in the abdominal wall, through which blood was discharged at the menstrual periods. 1883 The patient died after an operation performed for a tumour of the right ovary. Presented by A. Willett. Esq. 2930d. An Uterus, with its xippendages. The right Fallopian tube, ovary, and broad ligament show no abnormality or sign of disease. On the left side are seen the changes consequent on removal of a large cystic tumour of the left ovary eight