122 DISEASES OF THE - PERITONEUM, OMENTUM, AND MESENTERY. of the liver : the pelvic organs were matted together by growths of a similar nature : under the microscope their structure is carcinomatous of the encephaloid type, showing large glandular cells embedded in a scanty meshwork of fibrous tissue. 1892 The patient was a girl, aged 15. The seat of the primary disease was not detected, but it was probably in one or other of the pelvic viscera (see Temtoloffical Catologue, No. 3673c). A drawing of the diaphragm and liver, when fresh, is preserved in Series Ivii., No. 366, and microscopical sections are preserved in Series Iv., No. 244a. See Medical Post-Mortem Register, vol. xvii., p. 280. 1890a. A Section of the Bladder and Rectum, from a case of cancer of the peritoneum. The whole of the recto-vesical pouch is occupied by a mass of colloid cancer, which has resulted from the degeneration of a medullary carcinoma. So far as can be ascertained, the carcinomatous growth sprang from the bottom of the recto-vesical pouch. At one spot it has opened by a process of infiltration into the posterior wall of the bladder. Neither the rectum nor the folds of intestine above appear to be implicated in the growth. 1887 From a gentleman, aged 62, who for more than twenty years before his death had a slight mucous discharge from the bowel. On July 14th he passed a tablespoonful of pus by the rectum ; on the 1.5th he had extreme frequency of micturition ; on the 18th air passed per urethram, and a little later in the day some f;eces. The patient died of exhaustion on December 16th. At the autopsy a cancer of the intestine was found to have perforated the bladder, the size of the perforation being that of a shilling. There were neither secondary deposits nor enlarged glands in the immediate neighbourhood, nor were there any abscesses. There was a little suppurative pyelitis on both sides, and a few minute abscesses in the renal substance. Presented by Samuel West, M.D. 1891 a. A Portion of the Mesentery, a very large part of which had become converted into a hard cake-like mass from being infiltrated with scirrhous carcinoma. 1891 Microscopical sections, showing the usual structure of this class of malignant disease, are preserved in Series Iv., No. 246. Received in exchange from the Royal Free Hospital. WOUNDS OF THE PERITONEUM. 1894a. A Portion of the Peritoneum, which was accidentally cut during the operation of suprapubic cystotomy. The incision was immediately closed by pointed sutures of fine silk, and was healed by first intention. The patient died of syncope two days later. Cf. No. 2089a. 1889 See Series xxix., No. 2417c.