DISEASES OF THE THYROID GLAND. 175 through the skin and has extended into the thorax. It completely compresses the left recurrent laryngeal nerve, and has flattened the two common carotid arteries. It has grown by a downward prolongation through the upper wall of the arch of the aorta, but without causing any extravasation of blood. 1886 F., aet. 46. Sarcomatous deposits were found in the kidneys, in one rib, and in the brain. All the deposits consist of sarcoma cells, whilst those in the kidney have a stroma which has undergone hyaline degeneration. The growth had existed for about four months. Portions of the brain are preserved in Series xxx., No. 2499b ; sections of the brain, thyroid, and kidney in Series Iv., Nos. 358, 387, and 436. See also Transactions of the Pathological Society, vol. xxxvii., pp. 513-514. INJURIES TO, AND OPERATIONS UPON, THE THYROID GLAND. 2319d. A Larynx and Trachea, from a case in which the removal of a thyroid cyst was followed by suppuration, which led to an opening into the trachea. There is a great deal of inflammatory thickening and infiltration, extending down the right side of the trachea as far as the arch of the aorta. A cavity is situated in front of this thickened mass which communicates by a fistulous track (along which a green glass rod has been passed) -with the trachea. The opening into the trachea in the recent state was only about as large as a pin's head ; it was situated between the second and third rings. The whole trachea is very much softened. 1888 From a man, aged 41, who was admitted into the Hospital with a cyst of the thyroid gland, which was subsequently dissected away from the surrounding structures. Diffuse suppuration took place round the wound, and a month after the operation had been performed it was found that the bottom of the wound communicated with the trachea. Two days later the patient died. At the autopsy the heart and pericardium were normal, and there was no pleurisy. There was general diffuse broncho-pneumonia of both lungs, with pus in the tubes and a gangrenous condition of a small portion of the right base. See Male Surgical Register, vol. i. (1886), No. 2948, and St. Bartholomew's Hospital Reports, vol. xxiii. (1887), pp. 218-220.