DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE BRAIN AND ITS MEMBRANES. 205 2497a. A Cerebellum, showing a glioma springing from the superior vermiform process, and indenting the inner borders of the lateral hemispheres. 1889 From a young man, aged 17, in whom the pressure of the tumour had given vise to hydrocephalus. Presented by James Berry, Esq. MULTIPLE SARCOMATA OF THE CEREBRUM. 2499a. A Sarcomatous Growth, involving the left fifth nerve near its origin. A globular tumour, of the size of a small walnut, occupies nearly the whole of the interpeduncular space at the base of the brain. It springs from the left fifth nerve, appearing to involve the Gasserian ganglion. In its growth forwards it has pressed upon the left optic tract and the left side of the optic commissure. The left third nerve is flattened by pressure. The fourth, and six nerves of the same side are involved in the growth. The inner portion of the left temporo-sphenoidal lobe is partially excavated and infiltrated by the tumour. A portion of the left occipital lobe has been cut away to show the extension of the sarcomatous tissue into it. (In a flat case in the first gallery.) 1886 M., set. 49 ; married ; an ex-policeman. On February 18th, 1885, he had violent pain of a neuralgic character over the left side of his head ; this was accompanied by a slight numbness of the affected part. On the following day there was complete loss of sensation on the left side of the face and over the area supplied by the fifth nerve. There was partial dilatation of the left pupil, which did not react to light. He suffered from earache on the left side, and from severe catarrhal ophthalmia. The patient was unable to feel a continuous current from a thirty-cell battery. On 24th February, the cornea of the left eye became hazy, and there was some catarrh of the right eye. On March 17th pain of a severe character was felt in the left arm and forearm. The left cornea was sloughing. There was some thickening of the zygoma on the left side. The patient gradually became worse. There was, however, no optic neuritis in the right eye. Pleurisy developed on the right side. The speech became affected, first only the using of wrong words, but later the patient was entirely unable to speak. The gait became feeble. There was incontinence of urine and fasces, and death occurred on June 27th, 1885. At the post-mortem examination twenty-seven tumours, varying in size from a walnut to an orange, were found in different parts of the body. They occurred, amongst otlier places, at the root of the right lung, in the liver, kidneys, and mesentery. Microscopically, these tumours were fibro-sarcomatous in character. Sections are preserved in Series Iv., No. 437. The patient was shown, by Mr. Strugnell, before the Clinical Society. See Transactions of the Clinical Society, vol. xviii. (1885), p. 330, and Transactions of the Pathological Society, vol. xxxvii., p. 62. Presented by F. W. Strugnell, Esq. 2499b. Multiple Sarcomata in the cerebral hemispheres, with entire absence of cerebral symptoms. In the cortical substance of the brain is a cavity filled with recent blood-clot. The cavity is situated in the ascending parietal and supra-marginal convolutions. It measures an inch across and an inch in depth. It is lined by a thick membrane, which appears to have given way at its most superficial part, allowing of the protrusion of the new growth. In the substance of the occipital lobe, immediately above, and anterior to, the end of the posterior horn, was a patch of new growth about the size of a split pea, with a small haemorrhage just above it. Similar patches of new growth were scattered about in other parts of the hemispheres. 1886 From a woman, aged 47, who sustained a lacerated wound from glass in her neck four years before her death. Three or four months before she died her thyroid gland swelled and became painful. The swelling increased rapidly, and the patient, after sufiering for a week or two from aphonia, and from stridor for a day or two, died asphyxiated. The tumour was diagnosed to be a malignant growth of the thyroid. With 'the exception of some pain in the head, which was referred to in the course of the lesser occipital nerve, the patient had absolutely no cerebral symptoms. Microscopically, the tumour in the brain con- sisted of an oval-celled sarcoma. The thyroid gland is preserved in Series xxvi., No. 2319c, Sections of the brain are pre- served in Series Iv., No. 436. See also Transactions of the Pathological Society, vol. xxxvii.,'p. 54. p 2