SERIES XXXVII. DISEASES OP THE SOEOTUM. 2818a. A Scrotum, affected with Elephantiasis: it was removed by operation on account of its size. All the tissues are greatly hypertrophied : the skin of each side is wrinkled and intersected by deep transverse furrows, while the median raphe is nearly half an inch in width. Scattered here and there over the sides are small rounded protuberances formed by dilated lymph-spaces. Microscopically, it consists, for the most part, of fibrous tissue. 1891 The patient was a lad, aged 16, who had always lived in England. See Male Surgical Register, vol. iv. (1890), No. 2333. A drawiag is preserved in Series Ivii., No. 938, and a microscopical section in Series Iv., No. 554. 2819a. A Pedunculated Tumour, removed from the left side of the scrotum. It is about the size of a small orange, and when examined, microscopically, it was found to be a soft fibroma. 1886 From a boy, aged 17; the tumour had been noticed for a year before removal. It was painless, semi-translucent, tense, and elastic. It did not appear to be adherent either to the testis or skin. See Male Surgical Register, vol. iv. (1885), No. 1964. 2819b. A Congenital Multilocular Cystic Tumour of tlie Scrotum. The tumour has been laid open longitudinally after having been hardened in alcohol, and is seen to be composed of a number of cysts, varying in size from that of a large hazel-nut to that of a small pea, which are more or less filled by a homogeneous material. When fresh, the cysts were quite soft and translucent. The testis was not affected, although it lay in close contact with the tumour, which was noticed shortly after birth, and had slowly increased. It occurred on the left side. 1892 From a boy, aged nine. See 31ale Surgical Register, vol. ii. (1891), No. 749. 2819c. A Congenital Multilocular Cystic Tumour of the Scrotum, very similar to the preceding specimen. It has been laid open by a longitudinal incision, and is composed of a number of small cysts of various sizes, which are partially filled by a homogeneous substance. In places this is blood-stained. There is rather more fibrous tissue than in the preceding specimen. In this case, also, the testis, although closely connected, was not affected. It had slowly increased since birth, and occurred on the right side. 1892 From a boy, aged 11. See Male Surgical Register, yo\ v. (1892), No. 247. 2823a. An Epithelioma of the Scrotum. There is an ulcer with irregular surface, nearly circular in shape, about two and a half inches in diameter, and with numerous small protuberances ; the edges are raised, and the whole mass stands out pro- minently from the pigmented skin of the scrotum. 1891 It was removed, by operation, from a man, aged 63, a coachman by occupation, and who had never had anything to do with soot or tar. He had noticed the growth for three years. Microscopical examination showed it to be a typical squamous-celled epithelioma. A section is preserved in Series Iv., No. 557. For further particulars sec Male Surgical Register, vol. ii. (1890), No. 3754*.