DISEASES OF BONES. 8 TUBERCULAR ULCERATION OF THE CRANIAL BONES, LEADING TO PERFORATION. 133a. The Base of a Skull, from a young subject, exhibiting extensive ulceration through a part of the parietal and temporal bones, the effects of tubercular disease. a. 75. 1888 (In Case F.) 134a. A Clavicle extensively affected with Caries and Necrosis. Over some parts of the shaft porous new bone has been deposited. 1882 138a. Section of the Upper Portion of a Femur. The cartilage on the articular surface is almost entirely destroyed, and its place taken by fibrous adhesions which unite it to the acetabulum. In the centre of the neck is a small cavity which contained a few drops of pus, but no sequestrum. The bone forming the great ti'ochanter is greatly sclerosed, but presents no sign of caries; a considerable amount of new bone has been formed in this situation. 1882 From a boy, aged 13 years. Seven months previous to removal some carious bone had been gouged from the great trochanter ; the patient, however, showed signs of commencing amyloid disease, and amputation at the hip was deemed advisable. 138b. Section of the Lower Third of the Femur, from a case of Central Necrosis, A sinus runs from the outer side of the limb upwards and inwards to sclerosed bone forming the external border of the femur. A cm'ved sequestrum, measuring two and a half inches in length by one-eighth of an inch in thickness, is embedded in the centre of the bone immediately to the inner side of the medullary canal. The bone at the upper part of the section is sclerosed as a result of chronic * osteitis, and the outer lamella) are singularly irregular, the compact bone at the periphery being converted into a soft diffluent material, whicli was of a deep claret colour. The lower part of the section, including the whole of the cancellous tissue of the epiphysis, was of the same claret colour, and was so soft that the finger could be readily passed through its substance. This condition is due to the cancellous tissue being entirely filled with inflammatory products which have almost become purulent, the colour being due to the presence of altered blood-pigment. 1889 A school-girl, aged 13 years, received an injury to the lower part of the thigh three years before her admission to the Hospital. Three weeks after the injury an abscess was opened, and a pint of pus was let out from beneath the periosteum of the femur. When first seen, she had been confined to bed for two years, and was suffering from amyloid disease. Three sinuses were found to lead down to hard bone in the femur ; no sequestrum could be detected. The bones of the leg, showing an extreme amount of atrophy resulting from the disuse, are preserved in Series i.. No. 12a. A drawing is preserved in Series Ivii., No. 7. See Female Surgical Itegister, vol. i. (1889), No. 367. 138c. The opposite Half of the Femur, from the same patient as the preceding specimen, macerated and dried. The whole of the shaft of the bone, except the part in the immediate neighbourhood of the sequestrum, has undergone a process of rarefying osteitis. ' 1889 OSTEITIS AND PERIOSTITIS. 140a. The Lower Half of a Left Femur. On the outer surface there is a large excavated cavity, into which cloacse from the inner and posterior surfaces lead. The outer wall of the bone has been removed from this region, partly by ulceration, and partly by an extensive operation performed shortly before death. The front and posterior surfaces are covered by a rough irregular layer of new bone, which is honeycombed in all directions by the channels of numerous blood-vessels, the