SERIES XXVI. See Female Surgical Register, vol. v. (1890), No. 1161 DISEASES OE THE THTEOID &LAI[D. 2310a. A Cystic Adenoma of the right lobe of the Thyroid Gland. The new growth lies immediately in front of the trachea, which it compresses from before backwards. 1887 2310b. A Cystic Adenoma of the right lobe of the Thyroid Gland. 1887 A photograph is preserved iu Series Ivii., No. 562. 231 Oc One-half of the left lobe of a Thyroid Gland, which was the seat of a cystic adenomatous goitre. The tumour is invested with a well-marked capsule, under which the enlarged thyroid vessels, which have been injected, may be seen ramifying. The rough surface without any capsule, situated at the lower and inner part of the gland, marks the place where the tumour was attaclied by a narrow isthmus to the opposite lobe. The superior thyroid artery is seen as a large vessel at the upper and back part of the specimen. The cut surface shows two large adenomatous nodules, each provided with a definite capsule. Immediately below them are several cysts which contain more or less broken-down masses of colloid substance mixed with blood. Small blood-vessels ramify in the connective tissue between the cysts. After its removal the whole tumour weighed eighteen ounces. 1889 The patient was a young man who had had a large bilateral goitre for many years. Of late it iiad given him so much trouble that he was unable to follow his occupation, that of a labourer. The tumour was removed through an oblique incision over its long axis. All the main vessels were secured with double ligatures before being divided, so that the patient lost very little blood. The left half of the gland was removed completely, the right being left in situ. The wound was dressed after Kocher's method, and healed completely in about a week, no complications occurring. The right half of the goitre underwent the usual diminution in size and subsequent re-enlargement a few weeks after the operation. Four months after the operation the patient was still in good health, and enjoying immunity from the symptoms which had previously troubled him. A cast of the neck of the patient from whom this tumour was taken is preserved in Series Ivi., No. 138g. See also St. Bartliolomciv s Hospital Bcjforts, vol. xxv. (1889), p. 97. Presented by Messrs. Edward Jessop and James Berry. 231 Od- A Cystic Adenoma of the left half of the Thyroid Gland, removed by operation for the relief of dyspnoea. The tumour has been laid open, and shows a number of cysts of various sizes ; some of these contained fluid more or less colloid in character, while others are filled by solid gland substance. 1891 For details of the case see Male Surgical Register, vol. i. (1889), No. 350. 231 Oe. A similar Specimen, differing only in the fact that there is rather more solid material, and that there is towards the lower part of the tumour a hard spicule composed of bone or of calcareous substance. 1891