34 DISEASES OF JOINTS. 669a. A Humerus and Scapula, showing to an extreme extent the changes which take place as a result of Rheumatoid Arthritis, The glenoid cavity of the scapula is convex at its lower part, whilst the upper portion is dee[)ly grooved and its margin is " lipped." There is a considerable deposit of fresh material around the coracoid and acromion processes. The surface of the bone is polished and devoid of cartilage. The head of the humerus is enormously increased in size by a deposit of new bone, but is hollowed out so as to articulate with the convex glenoid surface. Like the scapula, the articulating surface is burnished and devoid of cartilage. In both bones the new deposit appears in the form of small gravel-like bodies. The capsule was much thickened and contained numerous stalactites, which were also present to a very considerable extent in the neighbouring muscles. 1884 (In Case G.) The specimen was obtained from a body brought for dissection. The opposite shoulder was affected, but to a less extent. Presented by W. S. A. Griffith, M.D. 669b. Scapula and Humerus from a less advanced case of the same disease. 1884 (In Case G.) 669c. The Shoulder-Joint from a case of Suppurating Osteo-Arthritis. The articular extremities of the bones are devoid of cartilage and present the appear- ances characteristic of osteo-arthritis in an advanced stage. 1886 (In Case G.) From a man, aged 25, who had an abscess round the shoulder-joint which had been repeatedly opened. His wrist was excised three and a half years before death for strumous disease. See 3Me Surgical Register, vol. i. (1885), No. 3634. 670a. A Humerus, the Head of which shows changes characteristic of an early stage of Rheumatoid Arthritis. 1882 (In Case G.) Presented by F. Swinford Edwards, Esq. 673a. The Articular Ends of the Humerus and Ulna wliich enter into the formation of tlie Elbow-Joint. The cartilage over the capitellum is entirely removed, and the subjacent bone is smooth and polished. Around the edges of the articular surfaces of the humerus are nodular outgrowths, partly composed of cartilage, partly of bone. The upper end of the ulna exhibits similar outgrowths of the articular cartilage, more especially over the coronoid process, which is thereby considerably hypertrophied. These pedunculated growths project into the joint cavity. 1883 673b. The Upper End of an Ulna, showing changes of a character similar to those seen in the preceding specimen. The overgrowth of the coronoid process is, how- ever, much more marked, this portion of bone being about three times its usual size. 1888 673c. Head of a Radius apparently affected with Chronic Osteo-Arthritis. The papillated condition of the synovial fringes is well seen. 1885 From a man, aged 20. Presented by W. Bruce Clarke, Esq. 690a. A Patella showing the changes which take place in the cartilage at an early period of Chronic Osteo-Arthritis. 1885 The cartilage has become in part eroded and is fibrillated.