DISEASES AND INJURIES OF ARTERIES. 83 vessel forms a pouch, which has extended forwards so as to become adherent to the thoracic wall in the third costal interspace. As a result of the pressure upon this part of the thorax, the second rib was absorbed to such an extent that it was readily fractured. The left lung had become adherent to the dilated aorta, wliich was here so thinned that it had ruptured into the left pleural cavity. The inner surface of the aneurysm has numerous calcified plates upon it, but there is no trace whatever of laminated fibrin. 1887 From a man, aged 48, who was an hotel-keeper. He had been well until fourteen months before his death, and gave a history of syphilis when young. On admission to the Hospital he Buffered from the various symptoms of an aortic aneurysm, which gradually progressed, until, after a violent fit of coughing, he suddenly became collapsed and shortly afterwards died. He was treated upon Tufnell's system from April 12th until December 23rd of the same year. At the autopsy five or six pounds of blood were found in the left pleura. The right lung was collapsed and adherent to the aneurysm. The cardiac valves were normal, except that the aortic valves were somewhat thickened. The clavicle was pressed slightly forwards. See John Ward Book for 1885, No. 35. ANEURYSM OF THE INNOMINATE ARTERY. 1506a. A Saccular Aneurysm of the Innominate Artery, together with the heart, arch of the aorta, and great vessels of the neck. The sac is more or less globular in shape, and measures six and a half inches in diameter. On the anterior aspect it is seen that the sac has become adherent to the skin which now forms a covering of the upper part; below this, the right sternomastoid and other muscles of the neck are involved in a similar way. Towards the lower part of the front wall is a wide gap, extending transversely across and into the cavity of the sac. In this gap lay the sternal end of the left clavicle, the upper part of the sternum, and the right first rib (see specimen, No. 17c) : the two last-named bones are very much eroded. The sternal end of the right clavicle has been com- pletely eroded ; its outer half now protrudes from the back of the aneurysm. Below this gap, the innominate vein crosses the sac, to which its posterior wall is firmly adherent. From behind it is plainly seen that the aneurysm is limited in origin to the innominate artery ; the right common carotid and subclavian arteries are not involved, nor is the arch of the aorta, except to a very slight extent. The right internal jugular vein can be traced across the sac, but it is no longer pervious, having become blocked and obliterated at a point three inches above the commencement of the superior vena cava, where it crosses the left subclavian artery. This last-named vessel, from having thicker walls, has withstood the pressure of the aneurysm, and is pervious. The distal end of the sternal half of the right clavicle protrudes from the upper part of the sac towards its outer side. The aorta is dilated and atheromatous, and its walls bulge outwards slightly in two or three places. The heart is somewhat hypertrophied. 1893 From a man, aged 32. A swelling in the neck was first noticed twelve months before his death. See Male Surgical Register, vol. iv. (1892), No. 843. 1511a. An Aneurysm of the arch of the Aorta, which has penetrated the chest wall* with a fusiform Aneurysm of the left Subclavian Artery. An aneurysmal dilatation of large size involves the whole extent of the arch of the aorta as far as the origin of the left subclavian artery, except that portion immediately above the aortic valves. Anteriorly, the aneurysm has penetrated the thoracic wall to the right of the sternum, at the level of the second costal cartilage ; and posteriorly it extended to the spine, and eroded the bodies of the two upper dorsal vertebrae. Its sac is partially filled with coagulum. The left subclavian artery, for an inch and a half from its origin, is the seat of a fusiform aneurysmal dilatation. The wall of the artery is lined by a thick layer of partially decolourised coagulum. The trachea is compressed by the G 2