DISEASES OF THE UTERUS. 255 3015a. A Myo-sarcoma of the Uterus. The upper part of the body of the uterus is much enlarged by a red, vascular, softened, and diffuse growth. 1885 F., set. 23. Married four years ; one cbild, sevea months before her death. Menorrhagia, followed by dyspnoea and hfsmoptysis, until the patient became very aniemic. She died suddenly. At the autopsy the lumbar glands and lungs were found to be studded with new growths. A small sarcomatous growth was attached to the anterior wall of the vagina, immediately behind the orifice of the urethra. For further details see Martha Ward, Booh, November 21st, 1883, s. v. M. Church. 3015b. An Uterus, with the placenta in situ, removed by the utero-ovarian Caesarian operation of Porro. The placenta is adherent to the posterior wall of the uterus. The rugfB of the contractions of the peritoneum over the contracted uterus are plainly visible. 1885 F., dwarf, set. 24, whose pelvis had been smashed when she was four years of age. The conjugata vera measured about one and a quarter inches. Mother and child survived. Nine months after the operation the mother appeared to be in perfect health. She had not menstruated. The case is published by Dr. 0. Godson in the British Medical Jov/rnal, vol. i. (1884), p. 142. 3015c. A portion of an enlarged Anterior Lip of the Cervix of a nulliparous woman, aged seventeen. The growth returned within three months of the operation. Microscopical sections show that it consists of a sarcoma undergoing myxomatous degeneration, and containing minute masses of hyaline cartilage, which are not always separated from the surrounding tissue. 1887 The patient had suffered for six weeks from menorrhagia with mucous discharges. The tumour formed a soft lobulated mass, which bled freely on examination, and exuded a sticky fluid on section. The disease extended rapidly. See Transactions of the Obstetrical Society, vol. xxviii., p. 178. A section is preserved in Series Iv., No. 607. Presented by A. L. Galabin, M.D. TUBERCLE OF THE MUCOUS MEMBRANE OF THE BODY OF THE UTERUS. 3015d- The Uterus and its Appendages, from a patient who died of tubercular phthisis. The lining membrane of the fundus shows caseous infiltration and thickening, with some irregular ulcei'ation. The uterine cavity is dilated and was filled with a slightly gelatinous curdy fluid. The cervical canal is free from disease. The left Fallopian tube is thickened, and caseous nodules occur in its wall. Microscopical examination of the caseous lining of the fundus showed the presence of a small number of tubercle bacilli. 1887 From a girl, aged 14, who had never menstruated. In addition to phthisis, she suffered from tubercular meningitis and chronic peritonitis. She was only ill for three months. At the autopsy no tubercles were found in connection with the peritoneum. Presented by Percy Kidd, M.D.