81 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF ARTERIES. sac is complete, a large opening existing opposite the junction of the aneurysmal sac with the artery. The upper end of this vessel is occupied by a firm, adherent, colourless clot ; the lower end also contains a clot, which is not yet decolourised and is not so firm. The sac is filled by decolourised fibrin continuous with that in the vessels. The vein is slightly thickened and adherent; its upper part is filled with a soft friable clot. 1882 From a man, aged 40, who received a blow on his leg in August, 1881. A few days later he noticed for the first time a slight throbbing in the ham, which steadily increased. On December 12th, of the same year, his femoral artery was ligatured by Mr. Smith. Gangrene set in on the fourth day, and amputation of his thigh was performed on December Slsfc. An examination of the limb showed that the aneurysm had ruptured some time previously (probably at the time of the blow), and the clotted blood was confined merely by the surrounding tissues. The artery and vein at the seat of amputation were occluded by clots. ANEURYSM OF AORTA BURSTING INTO PULMONARY ARTERY. 1476a. A Heart and the commencement of the Large Vessels. The first part of the arch of the aorta is uniformly dilated into a globular aneurysmal sac, measuring three inches in diameter, to which the pulmonary artery is adherent. A portion of the wall of the aneurysm has been cut away, and the pulmonary artery has been laid open, thereby disclosing an irregular opening in the intervening septum, through which a red glass rod has been passed. The interior of the sac has roughened and ulcerated walls, but the dilatation is limited to the ascending and transverse portions of the arch. The innominate, left carotid, and subclavian arteries, together with the greater part of the transverse portion of the arch, are unaiiected. 1893 The patient was a man, aged 30. Seven months before his death he began to complain of pain across the upper part of the chest, which increased on exertion. The pain became more severe, until he was one day seized with sudden dyspnoea, gradually became comatose, and died in two or three hours. He had contracted syphilis five years previously. Presented by S. H. Habershon, M.D. 1484a. A large Tri-locular Aneurysm of the Arch of the Aorta. There are three distinct loculi or sacs, which communicate, and are placed one above the other, involving the whole of the first part of the arch ; the middle sac has extended back- wards, and is formed by the dilatation of the aorta itself without implicating the pericardium. At the back of the specimen the pericardium has been partly cut away to show the thin walls of the middle sac. The other two sacs, which lead out of the middle sac, are formed for the most part from the pericardium, which has become thickened by inflammation and by adherence to the surrounding structures. This is very noticeable in the upper sac, to the outer walls of which portions of lung tissue still remain attached. The sacs show little or no deposit of laminated clot. The whole of the aortic arch is much diseased, and shows two other distinct dilatations. There are atheromatous patches on its walls, and the aortic valves are thickened. There is some hypertrophy of the walls of the left ventricle. 1891 The patient was a sailor, aged .53 at the time of his death. He always had good health until his chest trouble began, about three years before he died. There was no history of syphilis or other serious illness. From 18.58 till 1874 he was an able seaman in the Merchant Service. In 1874 he became a lighthouse-keeper in the Red Sea, where he had a number of steps to go up and down, and after a time he noticed that his breath became short. In June, 1886, when home on three months' leave, he was ill and sufiiered from shortness of breath and pain in the right side of his chest. He returned to his work, and remained away until June, 1887, when he was invalided and pensioned. He did not have medical advice until October, 1888, when he was treated as an out-patient at an infirmary until February, 1889. He was then too ill to attend. He was treated at his home by rest and opium, but sank, and at last died rather suddenly in September, 1889. Presented by John F. Bullar, M.D. 1487a. The Heart and Aorta, with a portion of the Thoracic Wall, showing the seat of an aneurysm and the manner in which it has ruptured through the chest-wall. The heart is healthy, but the aorta is much dilated and is atheromatous. The <»