114 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE NOSE, MOUTH, TONGUE, ETC. See Male Surgical Register, vol. iii. (1886), No. 300. 1801a. A soft Palate, Faucea and Larynx affected with tubercular disease. A superficial ulceration of the mucous membrane extends over the greater part of the superior surface of the soft palate and uvula ; the mucous membrane of the fauces is thickened and penetrated by numerous small ulcers. The margins of the epiglottis are superficially ulcerated, and also the mucous follicles upon it; the arytfeno-epiglottidean folds, and arytjenoid cartilages are unnaturally distinct, and infiltrated with tubercular material. 1881 From a boy, aged 15 years, who was admitted to the Hospital for sore throat, which he stated had only existed about a week. The cervical lymphatic glands had been enlarged for eight months. He died exhausted. The post mortem examination revealed general tuber- culosis of the lung, and tubercular ulceration of the intestines. See Darhcr Ward Boali, vol. vii., p. 204. 1803a. Section of a dermoid Tumour removed from the soft palate. It consists of a layer of cartilage covered by a tissue having the histological characters of ordinary skin. 1881 Presented by W. Morrant Baker, Esq. 1805a. A Membranous Cast of the Tonsil, which separated during an attack of diphtheria, 1890 From a child in Faith Ward. ENLARGED TONSILS. 1806a. The Pharynx of a child exposed from behind, showing on each side chronic enlargement of the Tonsil. 1892 1807a. A Polypoid Growth which was removed from the tonsil. The tumour consists of a larger and a smaller portion, each of which is crescentic in shape. The two portions of the growth are attached to each other by a narrow bridge of tissue. Microscopically, the tissue is a soft fibroma, consisting entirely of connective tissue. 1888 From a man, aged 25, who stated that for ten years he had repeatedly suffered from sore throat. The swelling, however, gave him no inconvenience, and he did not know how long it had been growing.