158 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE LIVER. to be replaced by the small, shining masses which are characteristic of amyloid degeneration. Microscopically, the organ was found to have undergone typically the changes which result from amyloid degeneration, but without any increase of filjrous tissue. 1888 From a boy, aged 18, who had a remarkable ulceration of many of his joints. The spleen was enormously enlarged For further history of the case, see No. 312a. The joints are preserved in Series i., Nos. 312a, b, e, d. The spleen is preserved in Series xxv., No. 2295a. See Male Surgical Register, vol. v. (1886), No. 2691*. 2196a. Section of a Portion of Liver containing a circumscribed tubercular abscess. The abscess wall is covered with shreds of partially organised lymph. The speci- men was obtained from a patient who died of pulmonary phthisis. 1888 Presented by Vincent Harris, M.D. 2196b. A Portion of a Liver containing a Large Abscess, situated in the right lobe near its convex surface. The walls of the abscess are irregular, and it has penetrated for some distance into the hepatic tissue, so that its floor is rough and spongy. The abscess communicated by a ragged aperture witli a circumscribed portion of the peritoneal cavity. 1889 From a man, aged i.5, whose transverse colon was adherent to the lower border of the liver. In this part of the intestines there were the pigmented cicatrices of three small ulcers. The left lobe of the liver was in a state of cloudy swelling. The patient had been employed in the gas works. He drank freely, and had probably suffered from syphilis. See Matthew Ward Buok for 1887, No. 230. 2196c. A Portion of the Eight Lobe of the Liver, showing on the cut surface a number of irregular abscess cavities of various sizes, the walls of which are rough and uneven. The peritoneal surface is not much altered in shape. 1891 Received in exchange from the Museum of the Eoyal Free Hospital. 2198a. A Liver showing the effects of cirrhosis. 1885 NON-ALCOHOLIC CIRRHOSIS. 2198b. A Liver presenting all the characters of Cirrhosis. It weighs twenty-nine ounces, and is indurated and pale from the increase of connective tissue. Its external surface is tuberculated and nodular, and a similar appearance is seen on section. Microscopically tlie liver is infiltrated with a very vascular small-celled growth, whicli in many places has completely destroyed the lobules by a simple process of pressure, since the growth of connective tissue is entirely interlobular. The cells of the liver are normal, and liave not undergone any fatty change such as is common in cases of ordinary cirrhosis, nor does there appear to be any abnormal quantity of pigment. 1889 From a professional man, five feet nine and a half inches in height, 65 years of age, who was able to work until three weeks before his death. He then began to sufEer from ascites accompanied by slight jaundice. Seven years previously he had suffered from an attack of biliary colic, which subsequently recurred, but he had not experienced an attack during the eighteen months preceding his death. Four years previously he had suffered from angina pectoris. For thirty-five years he had been a teetotaller and had never at any time indulged in alcohol to excess. In every respect he was abstemious. He had never suffered from syphilis. At the autopsy the kidneys were found to be small, the heart cut crisply, and the coronary arteries were calcified. A microscopical section is preserved in Series Iv., No. 303. See Transactions of the Pathological Socirti/, vol. xL, p. 137. Presented by Evan Alban, Esq. 2198c. A Portion of Liver, the whole substance of which is indurated and pale from an increase of the interlobular prolongation of Glisson's capsule. Its external surface is distinctly nodular, the nodules varying in size and in distinctness. 1889 From a woman, aged 67 years. The whole organ only weighed thirty ounces. See Medical Post-Mortem Register, vol. xiv., p. 191,