217 DISEASES AND INJURIES OP THE EYE AND ITS APPENDAGES. 2613a. An Eyeball, part of which has become calcified. The sclerotic and cornea ai'e normal, except that the latter is opaque ; the choroid is separated from the subjacent calcified tissue, and the retina may be seen within, completely detached in its whole circumference, adherent at the anterior extremity to tlie atrophied lens, and at its posterior extremity continuous with the optic nerve by a small hole in the bony capsule. The latter is incomplete in front, not extending beyond the ciliary region, and appears to occupy a position midway between the retina and choroid. 1883 The patient was a man, aged 67, who had lost the sight of his eye fifty years previously from an injury by a cow's horn. 261 31d. a similar specimen to that last described. 1883 From a man, aged 40, whose eye had been partially destroyed by lime twenty-four years previously. 2613c. A similar specimen. 1883 B'rom a lady whose eyesight had been destroyed by an injury thirty years previously. Presented by Henry Power, Esq. 2619a. The posterior portion of the Right Eyeball, showing the advanced degenerative changes which have resulted from intra-ocular hajmorrhage. The cavity of the eyeball is divided by the detached retina into two portions, each of which is filled with blood-clot. The hajmorrhage appears to have taken place between the sclerotic and the choroid. 1888 From a woman, aged 58, whose globe was estirpated on account of a severe attack of sympathetic iritis, set up by suppuration in the left eye. The suppuration followed upon an extraction of the lens. See Alexandra Ward Book for 1887, No. 1745. 2621a. Portion of an Eyeball, in which may be seen an old decolourised blood-clot around the optic papilla. The various tunics of the eye are entirely disorganised. 1882 From a woman who had suffered much pain in the eye, and had become blind. Before removal the growth much resembled an intra-ocular sarcoma. 2621b. Posterior half of the Right Eye, showing tubercle of the choroid in the form of small white patches. 1884 The specimen comes from a child, aged seven, who was admitted to Mary Ward, July 4th, 1883, with tubercular meningitis. The diagnosis of tubercle of the choroid was made by means of the ophthalmoscope before death. There was optic neuritis. The other eye was free from deposits. A section of the eye is preserved in the Ophthalmic Histological Cabinet in the Eye Wards. 2631a. Section of an Eye, showing a Melanotic Sarcoma of the choroid. The growth occupies rather more than one.half of the chamber of the vitreous, and has detached the retina in front of it. The other half of the vitreous chamber is occupied by a whitish substance, which, on microscopical examination, was found to be homogenous and structureless, and is doubtless the consolidated vitreous. The growth has in several places invaded the sclerotic, forming several darkly pigmented patches, seen on the outer surface. The lens is displaced forwards, and is partially opaque, and the anterior chamber much flatlened. 1890 Prom an elderly lady in whom symptoms had been noticed for some time. A microscopical section is preserved in Series Iv., No. 492. Presented by Henry Power, Esq. 26311). The other half of the preceding specimen, mounted in glycerine. 1890