DISEASES OF BONES. 6 The bone had no history attached. It was found amongst a number of patholosical specimens collected in the latter part of the first half of the present century by a medical practitioner in Trowbridge. See also Trnnsnctions of the PatJwlugical Socivty, vol. xxxvii., p. 369. Presented by G. C. Tayler, M.D. 74 d. The Upper Portion of a Tibia, showing the deformity produced by Osteitis Deformans. The bone is characteristically curved, and has undergone very con- sideral5le thickening. The thickening is in great measure due to the deposit of dense periosteal bone, and in part to a rarefaction of the existing shafts This change has been accompanied by an absorption of the walls of the medullary cavity. The portion of bone which has undergone rarefaction presents the same porous appearance as the bone in the preceding case, though the process has pro- ceeded farther ; it cuts easily, and the pores are occupied by a soft pinkish material, consisting, as the microscopic sections show, of embryonic medulla. The outer surface of the bone is roughened and the haversian canals are enlarged. 1886 From a man, aged 7t, who died from the effects of prostatic enlargement. There was no evidence of gout or osteo-arthritis. The tibia was the only bone in the body which showed signs of osteitis deformans. (Cf. No. 74a.) See Transactions of the Pathological Society, vol. xxxvii., p. 370. 74e. A Right Tibia, showing in a very marked degree the changes due to Osteitis Deformans. The bone has been sawn through longitudinally, by that means dis- playing the fact that the greatly increased thickness of the bone is almost entirely due to the deposition of new material on the outer surface, and that the medullary cavity has not been encroached upon. This deposition is almost entirely confined to the anterior and posterior surfaces ; the result is that while the bone is much thickened when measured from before back- wards, from side to side it is of about the normal size : further, the triangular shape of the tibia is lost; the sharp crest and the internal and external borders are quite obliterated. It may also be noted that the upper two-thirds are more affected than the lower part, that the head is but slightly thickened, and the lower end is of normal size. The surface of the upper part of the shaft is rough and porous, and is pierced by numerous blood-vessels : the orifice for the nutrient artery shows that this vessel was of large dimensions. 1892 (In case E.) This and the succeeding specimen (a right radius) M'ere removed from an old woman, aged 07 ; each of them measured three-quarters to one inch more in length than the cor- responding bone of the opposite side ; they were the only bones affected ; no others, including the bones of the skull, showed any increase in size. See Female Surgical Register, vol. v. (1891), No. 2639*. 74f. A Right Radius from the same case as the preceding specimen, and affected like it by Osteitis Deformans. The bone has been sawn through longitudinally, and shows, as usual, that the increase in thickness is due mainly to a deposition of new bone on the outer surface. The general shape of the shaft is quite lost, and there is a well-marked anterior bowing ; on either side of the attachment of the interosseous membrane the surface is much roughened and slightly porous in appearance, as is also the insertion of the biceps tendon. At the lower end, the tendons of the supinator longus and extensor proprius pollicis have formed grooves on the dorsal aspect of the shaft. At both extremities, especially at the lower, the margins of the articular surfaces are surrounded by rough deposits of new bone. 1892 (lu case E.) 80a. Portion of a Calvaria, showing at the posterior superior angle of the left parietal bone a circular raised patch of finely porous, slightly softened bone, about