SERIES XXXIV. DISSECTIOIfS OP YARIOTJS MaiOIS OF THE HTIIAI BODY. 1334a. Four frozen sections made through the orbit. A. Suspensory ligament of the eye seen from above. The red rod is placed in the lachrymal duct. The section was made a little below the level of the cantlii. B. Vertical section made through the centre of the cornea and the optic foramen. The wedge-shaped process, which consists of the upper part of the sheath of tlie rectus and the underneath part of the sheath of the levator palpebrse, is indicated by a blue rod placed between its layers. A red rod is placed inside the capsule of Tenon just above the suspensory ligament. The process which the inferior rectus sends to the inferior oblique is pinned down. C. Horizontal section, a little above the level of the canthi. The globe is pulled for- ward to show the interior of tlie capsule of Tenon, and the loose areolar tissue, " tunica adventitia," has been left. The blue rods are placed beneath the check ligaments of the internal and external recti. D. A vertical section through the centre of the cornea and apex of the orbit. The eye has been pulled out of the capsule of Tenon. The " tunica adventitia " has been removed to show the band of fibres, " intracapsular ligament," which holds the rectus to the wall of the orbit ; the muscle, owing to the displacement of the sclerotic, is bent as it passes over the ligament. A blue rod has been placed beneath the slip which the inferior rectus sends to the inferior oblique muscle. 1885 1334b. Two Specimens in long bottle. Upper.—Part of a frozen section of the orbit. The blue rod is placed beneath the tendinous origin of the external, superior, and internal rectus. Lower.—Part of an orbit. The red rod is placed beneath the tendon of Zinn. 1885 These specimens illustrate a paper by C. B. Lockwood, Esq., upon " The Anatomy of the Orbit " in the Journal of Anatomy (tnd Physhiloijy, vol. xx. (1885), p. 1. Prepared and presented by C. B. Lockwood, Esq. 1334e. The Back of the Orbit in Coronal Section. The remains of the sclerotic has been pulled out of the capsule of Tenon, to show its relation to the optic nerve. 1887 1334f. A Coronal Section of a Right Orbit. The conjunctiva and capsule of Tenon have been incised round the margin of the cornea, and a piece of blue paper put into the sac of the conjunctiva. The outer attachment of the capsule of Tenon and suspensory ligament may be seen, but the section does not quite divide the inner attachment. The lower part of the capsule of Tenon is thickened by the transverse fibres of the suspensory ligament, and is pierced by the inferior oblique. 1887