DISEASES OF JOINTS. 36 distance below its head, appear to be in all respects normal. See Male Surtf ioal Register, vol. V. (1884), No. 2319. See Transaotums of the Clinical (SVfw'^?/, vol. xviii. (188.5),'p. .50, and plates iv. and v. Casts of the knee arc preserved in Series Ivi., No. 20c, and drawings in Series Ivii., No. 92. A section of the cartilage is preserved in Series Iv., No. 81. 691c. The Right Knee-Joint affected with Osteo-Artlii-itis, from a Patient who had Locomotor Ataxy. 1886 The synovial membrane is everywhere thickened and pulpy, and is in some parts papillated. The cartilage of the condyles is ulcerated, the ulceration being most marked upon the inner side. On the bones are small pearly concretions like sago grains. The articular surface of the patella is completely covered by thickened synovial membrane. The whole of the posterior surface of the upper end of the tibia for a depth of three inches is worn away in such a manner as to allow of the dislocation of the bone forwards upon the femur, and a new articulating surface has been formed upon the eroded portion, partly by a moulding of this surface, and partly by the growth of osteophytic processes. A portion of the lower surface of this new articulating cavity is formed by the posterior part of the original articular surface of the head of the tibia, which having been apparently undermined, appears to have slipped down bodily, letting the femur fall, so to speak, and carrying with it a part of the external semilunar cartilage. This part of the original joint surface has, therefore, taken up a vertical, instead of a horizontal position. Tlie posterior crucial ligament, with a portion of the external semilunar cartilage, remains attached to the femur. The anterior crucial ligament retains its normal connection with the tibia, but it has lost its attachment to the femur, and is connected above with the thickened tissue surrounding the patella. The margins of the articulating surfaces of the femur and tibia aie "lipped" by slightly projecting outgrowths. A drawing of this joint is preserved in Series Ivii., No. 93. 691 d. The Left Knee-Joint from the same Patient as the preceding. 1886 The synovial membrane is vascular and papillated, the portion below the patella being pulpy. The cartilage covering the internal condyle is ulcerated at one spot. It is thickened, and is clearly undergoing fibrous degeneration over its whole extent, although it still retains its polished surface. The cartilage covering the external condyle is thickened, except at one part, where it is worn away, leaving dense eburnated bone. The edges of the articulating surfaces of the condyles are " lipped." The semilunar cartilages are intact. The anterior crucial ligament is pulpy and in part eroded ; the posterior is also softened. The patella is " lipped ;" it is covered by cartilage undergoing pulpy degeneration. It is not overgrown by thickened synovial membrane. The articular surfaces of the head of the tibia are bare of cartilage. The external surface is undergoing erosion at the point at which it is opposed by the eroded surface of the external condyle of the femur. All the soft tissues are more or less thickened, pulpy, and degenerated. A drawing of this joint is preserved in Series Ivii., No. 94. For further details and a history of the case, see Case iii., in a paper by Mr. Morrant Baker " Upon Cases of Joint- Disease in Connection with Locomotor Ataxy " in the Transactions of the Clinical Society, vol. xvii. (1885), where a reproduction of the drawings will be found. 692a. A Eight Knee-Joint, showing the changes which result from Osteo- Arthritis. The cartilages are eroded over a large portion of the articular surfaces, whilst the bones are dense and lipped. The synovial membrane is slightly swollen. In the joint was a single loose piece of cartilage, which is suspended above the specimen. 1887 From a waterside labourer, aged 49, who died from the results of a long-standing stricture of the urethra. See Male Surgical Register, vol. i. (1885), No. 3230. 692b. The Lower Portion of the Femur with the Patella, showing the changes which result from Osteo-Arthritis. There is considerable lipping of the bones, and the articular cartilage has almost disappeared from the patella and the internal condyle of the femur. In the intercondylar notch is a pendulous ecchondrosis, which has a smaller nodule lying by its side. 1888