GENERAL PATHOLOGY. 284 and very tender to the touch. There was pain in the shoulder and axilla, but no enlarged glands could be felt. 1886 Upon microscopic examination it was found to present the characters of an epithelioma. Presented by Dr. George Wilks. 3330a. A Section through a mammary gland, showing a large Scirrhous Carci- noma. The tumour involved the whole breast, and extended outwards towards the axilla, as is seen in that part which now hangs lowest. The nipple is retracted, and the ducts leading from the gland-tissue are enlarged and thickened. Under the microscope, the tumour was found to be rather of the encephaloid than of the simply scirrhous type, i.e., the cells were large and round, and the stroma thin. Several glands in the axilla were infilti-ated, and were removed at the same time. These showed a structure similar to that of the tumour. 1890 From a woman, aged 35. The tumour had been noticed for two years. Presented by Howard Marsh, Esq. CARCINOMA ARISING IN THE SKIN. 3332a. One half of a tumour, removed by operation from the inner side of the arm. The tumour was nearly spherical in shape, and its cut surface presents a more or less lobulated appearance, irregularly stained by hemorrhage. Microscopical exami- nation showed its structure to be that of a typical glandular-celled carcinoma. Its probable origin was in the sebaceous glands of the skin. 1893 See 3Iale Surgical Register, vol. ii. (1891), No. 2666. SUPPURATION OF MALIGNANT TUMOURS. 3335a. Part of a large Scirrhous Cancer of the Breast, in the centre of whicli is an irregular ragged abscess cavity, which, in the recent state, contained some foul- smelling but well-formed pus. There was no history of an injury to the diseased breast. 1883 3335b. A Sarcomatous Tumour of the Testis, at the lower part of which is an abscess cavity, whicli contained about two ounces of healthy pus. 1883 From a man, aged 50. Some weeks before castration was performetl the tumour had several times been punctured, under the impression that it was a hematocele 3339a. One half of a Small Tumour, removed by operation from the Umbilicus. Microscoj)ical examination proved it to be a colloid carcinoma. 1892 NJEVUS. 3343a. A Cutaneous Njcvus, removed from the tip of the nose of a child. It was congenital, and had increased since birth. 1891 3347a. A Thumb, on the dorsal surface of whose first phalanx is a large Nsevoid growth. The surface is warty, the epithelium is increased to the thickness of about half an inch, and is covered by old blood-clot and disintegrating epithelium. On section the growth is seen to be composed of a fine reticulum of fibrous tissue, the spaces of which, in the recent state, contained fluid blood. 1884 The patient was a girl, aged 12 years. The swelling had been noticed at birth, and had increased during the two years before removal. It had frequently bled, and occasionally discharged pus. Presented by J. Lucas Worship, Esq. CYSTS. 3364b. A small sebaceous Cyst, removed from the dorsal surface of the index- finger of a woman, aged sixty-two years. The skin covering the cyst had given way, and presented an ulcerated unhealthy surface. 1884 The patient attributed the growth to frequently pricking the finger with a sewing needle ; she had noticed it five months. A microscopic examination shows that the cyst wall is com- posed of numerous layers of epithelial cells, continuous with the rete.