VARIOUS INSTRUMENTS AND SUBSTANCES PRODUCING INJURIES. 289 Presented by Howard Marsh, Esq. 3391 e. A Bullet, which had remained in the back of a man for fourteen years. 1889 From a seaman, aged 40, who was shot in the left side of his back, at Ammapoul, during the Ashanti expedition. For seven or eight years he had pain in the front and upper part of his abdomen. Four days before he was seen, a raw surface appeared at the place where he felt the pain, and the surface of the bullet then presented itself. It was removed without difficulty. 3391 f. A Fragment of a Bullet, weighing eight and a half grains, extracted from an eye, in which it had lodged for more than three years. 1889 From a seaman, aged 22 years, who was struck in the left eye by the fragment, whilst acting as marker at the rifle butts, on August 14th, 1885. The injured eye was painful for some time, but eventually quieted down. In January, 1888, the right eye became red and painful, and in the following March the patient first noticed the piece of metal in front of his left eye. In October of the same year the globe was found to be shrunken, hard, and painful, and the end of the piece of lead was seen to be projecting through the cornea. The right eye showed signs of sympathetic ophthalmia. The patient refused to have enucleation performed, and the foreign body was, therefore, seized with a pair of forceps, and withdrawn through the cornea. The patient was not seen again. Presented by A. G. R. Foulerton, Esq. 3391 g". Two Masses of Silver Ore, removed from the Eectum of Men working in the silver-mines of Chili. The larger mass weighs thirty ounces, and measures five and a half inches in its longest diameter and eight and a half inches in circumfer- ence ; the smaller one weighs eight ounces. The larger one still retains a covering of rag ; the smaller one has been unwrapped. 1891 A gentleman, living at Iquique, Chili, who sent the specimens to England, writes:—" In our silver-mines here the men, on coming out of the mine, are stripped naked and well searched. Among other habits, some of them accustom themselves to pushing pieces of ore into the rectum, leaving a short piece of string to pull it out by, and some of these miners are able by this means to steal during the year a large amount of silver ore. I was present the other day, when the men were leaving the mine, and saw the searching ; the two specimens I send were taken from the rectum of two of the miners. I have seen even larger pieces removed than these."