67 TENDONS, AND BURSiE. softened, so that they are easily torn. The semilunar cartilages are in part worn away. The synovial membrane is remarkably affected, for from the neighbourhood of the mucosum et ligamenta alaria protrude large, soft, flattened, and leaflike synovial fringes. Some of the processes measure as much as one inch or one and a half inches in diameter. Microscopic examination shows that these fringes are the results of tubercular inflammation, and that they contain masses of tubercle, and in some cases even the tubercle bacilli. 1887 From a man, aged 41, a valet by occupation, who died of general tuberculosis. Ten months before his death he observed a swelling on the inner side of his right knee. The swelling was said to have attained its maximum size in two or three days, and the patient was certain that it was not the result of an injury. The cyst was aspirated on two occasions, and synovial fluid with flakes of mucus in it was removed. See Male Surgical Register, vol. ii. (1886), Nos. 449, 1353, 2021, and 2868. Drawings of the joint are preserved in Series Ivii., Nos. 99a and b. 1205g'. The Left Elbow-Joint from a man whose arm was amputated for joint-disease in connection with an Intermuscular Synovial Cyst. The capsule of the joint is distended on both its anterior and posterior surfaces, and it is much thickened as a result of chronic inflammation. The synovial cavity is in communication with the exterior by means of two sinuses, along which glass rods have been passed into the joint. The articular surfaces of the bones are almost entirely denuded of cartilage. 1887 From a man, aged 34, a post-office porter, who was admitted on account of a painless swelling in the neighbourhood of the left elbow-joint. It was oval in outline, and was situated immediately above the internal condyle. The swelling was first noticed two and a half years previously. It was tapped, and some brownish viscid synovial fluid containing granular matter escaped, but the cyst rapidly refilled. For nearly twenty months subsequently the swelling underwent but little alteration, but the patient was then readmitted with a large abscess below and to the inner side of the elbow. The abscess was allowed to burst, and it was then washed out and drained, but the patient lost ground, and amputation through the arm was performed, after which he made a good recovery. See Male Surgical Register, vol. v. (1884), No. 2637, and vol. v. (1886), Nos. 1638,1835, and 2289, and also St. Biirtliolomeiu's Hospital Reports, vol. xxi. (1885), p. 184, Case No. III. The three preceding joints were exhibited before the Pathological Society. See Transaclions of the Pathological Society, vol. xxxviii., p. 381, and plate xxiii., fig. 2. 12051l. The Eight Knee-Joint dissected to show an enlargement of the semi-mem- branosus bursa. The bursa, whicli is pyriform in shape, measuring two and a quarter inches in length, is situated between the tendon of the semi membranosus and the inner head of the gastrocnemius. 1888 From a subject brought in for dissection. Presented by E. Fincham, Esq. 1207a. A greatly enlarged Bursa Patellar which was removed by operation. It has been laid open from behind. On the front wall there is a deposit of blood-stained fibrin. Considerable hemorrhage had taken place into the cavity of the cyst a short time before the operation. 1892 See Female Surgical Register, vol. iv. (1891), No. 1083. 1209a- A Bursa Patella, which is somewhat enlarged, and is traversed by a broad circular bar of fibrous tissue. 1887 From a woman, aged 25, who had observed the swelling for nine months. She had fibrous tumours below the right olecranon process and on the right shin ; the opposite bursa patellte was also enlarged. See Female Surgical Register, vol. iii. (1887), No. 1434. F 2