ABNOEMAL CONDITIONS OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. Presented by E. P. Furber, Esq. 339 medium-sized pin. The aorta is larger than natural, and measures three-quarters of an inch across at its origin. The valves are normal. The orifice of the aorta communicates freely with both ventricles ; it is exactly over a circular orifice at the top of the ventricular septum, about three-quarters of an inch in diameter. The foramen ovale is widely open. 1885 From a child, who, during life, was deeply cyanosed, with general dilatation of the super- ficial veins. When the heart's action was irregular no murmur could be heard, but when it was beating quietly a systolic murmur was audible, which was most distinct between the left nipple and the sternum. The child died with necrosis of all the tissues of the right cheek, including a small piece of the superior maxilla. The fingers and toes were clubbed. A drawing is preserved in Series Ivii., No. 178, showing the rash of measles modified by cyanosis. See Transactions of the Patliologlcal Societ'i/, vol. xxxvi. (1885), p. 176. 3612a. A Malformed Heart, the aorta communicating with both ventricles. The ventricular septum is deficient in its upper part, and the aorta arises over the aperture which is common to both the cavities, chiefly, however, from the right, which, with its auricle, is larger than the left. The pulmonary artery is reduced to a narrow tube, which has no connection with the ventricles, but immediately below its bifurcation it received blood through the enlarged and patent ductus arteriosus. The foramen ovale is incompletely closed ; a glass rod has been passed through it. 1887 From a male child, aged sixteen months, who had been cyanosed from birth, the colour becoming deeper when he was cold. On admission, his face, lips, palate and tongue were of a deep blue colour, and a loud systolic murmur was heard over the left base of his heart. The murmur varied greatly in intensity, and was sometimes almost inaudible. Death occurred after removal from the Hospital in a sudden attack of dyspnoea.