SERIBS XXXIX. DISEASES OF THE PROSTATE (JLAITD. 2837a. A Sagittal Section through a Bladder and Prostate Gland, to show the hypertrophy of the muscular fibres whicli lie between the orifices of the ureter. The third lobe of the prostate is much enlarged, and projects upwards into the bladder. The hypertrophy of the muscular fibres appears to be the result of this chronic prostatic enlargement. It has taken place secondarily to the elevation of the prostate, apparently for the purpose of doing away with the vesical pouch, which would otherwise be formed. The black rod is passed along the urethra ; below the rod is seen the track of a lithotomy wound made the day before the death of the patient. 1886 See Male Surgical Register, vol. ii. (1885), No. 2055. A drawing is preserved in Series Ivii., No. 649. 2842a. The Urinary Bladder, with great enlargement of all the lobes of the prostate gland. The bladder itself is hypertrophied and fasciculated, the mucous membrane being inflamed and slightly ulcerated round the prostate. Each lateral lobe of the prostate contains a small fibrous tumour, that in the left lobe being contained in a definite capsule. The middle lobe is pedunculated and tunnelled through its centre from the urethra. A glass rod has been passed along the channel. 1887 From a man, aged 78, who was admitted on account of retention of urine, resulting from an enlarged prostate. He was sent out of the Hospital in charge of a nephew, who had instructious to pass a soft rubber catheter ; but he was shortly afterwards admitted with severe ha3maturia, to which he quickly succumbed. A kidney from the same case is preserved in Series xxviii., No. 2.S35b. See Male Surgical Register, vol. i. (1886), Nos. 353 and 726. 2842b. A Bladder, in whicli senile enlargement of the prostate was treated by electrolysis. The bladder is hypertrophied and a little sacculated. The whole thickness of the bladder wall, and of the contiguous rectum in the region of the trigone, has completely sloughed, and a ragged opening, of the size of a shilling, unites the cavities of the rectum and bladder. The prostate gland is enlarged to about three times its natural size. The middle lobe is as large as a hazel nut ; it is detached on its left side, and is only united to the rest of the gland by a thin pedicle. It was sloughing. 1888 From a man, aged 70, who had suffered for two years from symptoms of enlarged prostate. After the performance of median cystotomy a current from ten cells of a Stohrer's battery was applied for half an hour to the middle lobe of the prostate. The patient died twelve days after the operation. See 3Iale Surgical Register, vol. v. (1885), No. 2477, 2844a. A Bladder and Prostate Gland. The bladder is hypertrophied, and at its upper part the mucous membrane is protruded to form a vesical hernia. The prostate is much enlarged, and encroaches upon the bladder. It contains a large