96 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE LARYNX AND TRACHEA. From a man, aged 46, who first noticed a swelling at the angle of his jaw, upon the right side, four months before his death. He died suddenly from syncope very shortly after his admission to the Hospital. See Male Surgical Rcfjister, vol. v. (1887), No. 3676. 1655a. A Tongue and Larynx extensively affected with Epithelioma. The disease lias entirely destroyed the whole thickness of the base of the tongue and penetrated to the floor of the mouth. The epiglottis and the right vocal cord are destroyed. 1883 1655b. A Larynx with a portion of the Trachea. The whole of its inner surface is occupied by an ulcer, which extends from the middle of the epiglottis to the first ring of the trachea. From its surface numerous cauliflower vegetations, for the most part of small size, project into the interior. On the left side, the only remains of the thyroid cartilage is a loose fragment measuring about an inch square, but of the cricoid cartilage the greater part remains. Of the arytenoid cartilage on this side there is no trace. All the cartilages are left on the right side at the lateral and posterior parts. The base of the epiglottis and root of the tongue immediately below it are involved in the ulceration. There are a few vegetations round the tracheotomy hole, but there was no direct continuity of ulceration towards the front. There was no enlargement of the glands. Microscopical examination showed the ulcer to be an epithelioma. 1888 From a man, aged 4.S, who was well until nine months before his death. He gradually lost his voice, although he continued to work up to six weeks before his admission to the Hospital. After suffering greatly from dyspnoea, he died from exhaustion and gradual suffocation. See Transactions of the Pathological Society, vol. xxxviii., pp. 85-89. Presented by Samuel West, M.D. TUMOURS CONNECTED WITH THE TRACHEA. 1656a. A Papillary Growth removed from the Trachea. 1883 The patient was a woman, aged 35 years, who had suffered from symptoms of obstruction to respiration for about twelve months. After laryngoscopic examination, the growth was removed by tracheotomy ; it was adherent for about one inch to the second, third, and fourth rings of the trachea, and was not pedunculated. Microscopical examination showed the growth to be a simple papilloma of an innocent nature. Sections are preserved in the microscopical cabinet. Series Iv., No. 138. See Lawrence Ward Booh, vol. ix., p. 95, and account of case by Mr. Butlin in St. Bartholomew's Hospital Reports, vol. xviii. PARTIAL EXCISION OF THE LARYNX. 1656b. The Left Half of the Larynx, together with the true and false vocal cords, removed for an epitlieliomatous growth situated upon the under surface of the true vocal cord. 1887 From a gentleman, aged 50, who suffered from hoarseness of two years' duration. He had a warty growth on the left vocal cord, which appeared to be non-malignant, although it presented some suspicious characters. At different times during a period of six months, portions of the growth were removed with forceps. Recurrence took place, and the cord exhibited impaired mobility. Hahn's tracheotomy tube was used during the operation, and was left in for two days. At the end of two days it was replaced by a smaller tube. During the first few days after the operation the patient was fed through an oesophageal tube by means of a syringe. The temperature never rose above 100°, and the pulse was, almost from the firsi, from 80 to 84. On the fifth day the patient began to swallow. On the seventh day the tracheotomy tube was permanently removed. Three weeks after the operation he drove to Wimbledon, and after a week at Wimbledon, returned to his home in the country. The chief, and indeed the only trouble from which he suffered, was cough, which commenced as soon as the large tube was replaced by a smaller tube, but which gradually became less dis- tressing, and finally ceased within a few days after the permanent removal of the tube. He was last seen by Mr. Butlin on September 28th, when the wound was healed with the exception of a little sinus at the lower part. There was no sign of recurrent disease, or of affection of the glands of the neck. His general health was excellent, and he was able to speak in a gruff whisper. Presented by H. T. Butlin, Esq.