131 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE INTESTINES. From an unmarried girl, aged 20, who for eighteen months had passed blood per rectum during defsecation. She had much pain, and a diagnosis was made of tubercular ulceration high up in the colon. Five days before her death she had an attack of subacute peritonitis. A drawing is preserved in Series Ivii., No. 427. See Transactions of the Pathological Society, vol. xL, p. 109. See Female Surgical Register, vol. iii. (1889), No. 2536*. 1990a. A portion of Ileum, showing the enlargement of Payer's patches and of the solitary glands, which is typical of the first stage of typhoid fever. 1883 2004a. Portions of the descending Colon, showing a typhoid ulcer which has per- forated the gut. 1882 See Pathological Society's Transactions, vol. xxxiii,, p. 150. 2006a. The last eight inches of the Ileum, showing the condition of Peyer's patches in a boy who had a severe attack of typhoid fever. Fourteen days after defer- vescence had taken place, he died suddenly from dyspnoea, the result of necrosis of the cricoid cartilage. The Peyer's patches have evidently undergone extensive destruction, and in each there still remains a small circular ulcer of the mucous membrane which extends as deeply as the muscular coat. One or two solitary glands in the upper part of the preparation also appear to have undergone ulceration. All the ulcers are in the process of healing. They present even and shelving edges. 1889 See Medical Post-Mortem Register, vol. xv., p. 172. The larynx is preserved in Series x., No. 1641c. 2007a. Portions of small Intestines, showing the cicatrices resulting from syphilitic ulceration. The patches are numerous and thickened ; some are ulcerated ; some show scar tissue and contraction, and some consist of fresh connective tissue. 1885 An account of the case will be found in the Pathological Society''s Transactions, vol. xxxv. (1884), p. 233. The skull-cap is preserved in Series i., No. 340a. 2011a. Part of the Jejunum laid open, showing extensive tubercular ulceration of the mucous membrane. The ulcers are situated transversely to the axis of the intestine. 1890 From a cliild, aged five years, who died of general tuberculosis. Presented by C. E. Russel-Kendle, Esq. 2016a. A Portion of the Ileum from a patient who died with tubercular phthisis. The mucous membrane is diffusely ulcerated. The individual ulcers are confluent, and so the ulceration is sinuous in character. There is no appreciable thickening of the coats of the intestine. 1887 From a metal turner, aged 27, who suffered for two years from phthisis. He had hemoptysis and diarrhoea. The left lung of this patient is preserved in Series xi.. No. 1718b. 2016b. The Caecum, with a portion of the Ileum and a small part of the Colon, from a patient who died with tubercular phthisis. The mucous membrane of the ileum and large intestine is much ulcerated, and is puckered by the contraction of old cicatrices. The caecum is much thickened and ulcerated, the ulcers being here confluent and of the sinuous type. 1887 From a woman who had suffered for three years from chronic phthisis, with much diarrhoea. The two preceding specimens were presented by Percy Kidd, M.D. 2017a. Portion of the Ileum, the seat of stricture caused by old adhesions. The stricture was situated at about three feet from the ileo-caecal valve, and above it the whole of the small intestine was much dilated. Only about eight inches of this dilated intestine are shown, the calibre of which is nearly equal to that of the colon.