288 VARIOUS INSTRUMENTS AND SUBSTANCES PRODUCING INJURIES. Presented by Thomas Smith, Esq. 3385a. A stick, which was driven through the left orbit, fracturing the right lesser wing of the sphenoid and passing into the right lateral ventricle of the brain. 1885 See also Surgical Registrar's Report for 1883, Appendix, p. 78. 3386a. A Halfpenny, which was passed per anum after being swallowed. 1885 J. S., set. nine, swallowed the coin at 5.30 p.m. on July 27th, passed it at 9 p.m. on July 29th ; he was fed on figs and porridge. Presented by W. T. Strugnell, Esq. 3391a. Portion of a Pipe Stem, removed from the interior of a child's mouth, where it had been embedded for two years. 1886 BI., £et. four. Two years ago the boy fell on his face while holding the stem of a pipe in his mouth. His father, noticing the pipe sticking out of the boy's mouth, drew it out, but did not notice at the time that the pipe was broken. He observed a wound on the right side of the mouth, just about the junction of the upper alveolar arch with the palate ; this bled pro- fusely, and the parts around became swollen. He took him to the Great Northern Hospital, where the wound was probed, but no foreign body discovered. He could hardly eat anything for a week, and for some time after that had to live on slop food. There was profuse saliva- tion, and the wound discharged pus for about a month. A fortnight after the accident he was taken to the Eoyal Free Hospital. Poultices were'applied behind the jaw, where a swelling had appeared. The mouth in the situation of the wound had remained red and swollen ever since, but there had been no discharge of pus after the first month. On May 13th, his father noticed the stem of a pipe projecting about a quarter of an inch from the site of the old wound. He was brought to the Hospital on May 20th, when the pipe-stem was found to be projecting freely and quite loose. It was easily removed. 3391b. Portion of a Graving Tool, removed from the knee-joint of a man, aged fifty-six. 1888 A free incision was made after the part had been frozen with ether spray, and the instru- ment was withdrawn by a pair of forceps. The patient made a good recovery. See Male Surgical Register, vol. iii. (1887), No. 3628. 3391c. A Portion of an Ivory Peg, which remained for ten months in the knee of a girl, aged six years. It has not undergone any appreciable amount of absorption. 1888 From a case in which the knee was excised for long-standing disease of the joint, with rectangular ankylosis. The cut ends of the tibia and femur were pinned together by the peg- See Female Surgical Register, vol. iii. (1887), Nos. 2151* and 840. 3391C^. A Steel Peg, which remained between the ends of a fractured patella for three months. The surface in places is considerably eroded. 1891 3391 d. A Metallic Cap, covering the end of a pencil, removed by tracheotomy from the left bronchus, which it had occluded. 1888 From a child, aged nine years. Urgent choking and dyspnoea occurred immediately after the foreign body had been drawn into the throat ; this was relieved by the passage of a probang down the oesophagus, and the foreign body was believed to have entered the stomach. There was great pain at the time, and violent cough. Four days later dulness on percussion and imperfect entry of air were first noted on the left side of the chest. Eleven days after the accident, there was marked dulness over the whole of the left side, absence of respiratory murmur, except over a limited portion of the upper part in front, displacement of the stomach upwards to the nipple line, and great retraction of that half of the thorax, indicating almost complete collapse of the left lung. The respirations were 80, the pulse 92. The temperature was subnormal—97.8°. There was no dyspnoea, but occasional short cough, aggravated by exertion. The conclusion arrived at was that the pencil cap, which was about one inch long and a quarter of an inch in diameter, had lodged in the extreme end of the left bronchus. The chihl made a good recovery. See Transact ions of the Royal iledico-Cliirurgical Society, vol. Ixxi., p. 112.