SERIES XXXIII. scopically, it is a round-celled sarcoma. 1888 DISEASES AID mUEIES OE THE EYE AO ITS APPEOA&ES. SARCOMA. 2570a- Section through an Eye, embedded in a round-celled sarcoma, which appears to have sprung from the connective tissue lying in the lower and back part of the orbit. The pressure of the growth has compressed the eyeball until it is almost triangular in shape, whilst the sclerotic coat is atrophied. 1888 From a boy, aged eight years, who complained of a dimness in his left eye four months before his death. Ophthalmoscopic examination revealed the presence of yellow patches upon the retina. In a week or two the eyeball began to protrude, and the eye was removed. Two months after the first appearance of the symptoms in the left eye, the right eye became affected in the same manner, and the patient died after a severe haemorrhage from the left orbit. At the autopsy sarcomatous growths were found in the falx cerebri and in the posterior portion of the brain. The glands of the neck were involved. The boy had two severe falls, one on the crown of his head four years before his death, and the other on his forehead from the eaves of a house eighteen months later. The maternal grandmother died of cancer of the breast. A photograph of the boy, as he appeared a month before his death, is preserved in Series Ivii., No. 751. Presented by H. C. Alderton, Esq. SYMMETRICAL HYPERTROPHY OF THE LACRYMAL G-LAND. 2571a. A Lacrymal Gland, removed from a boy, aged fourteen, in whom both the glands were excised. It retains its normal shape, but measures an inch in length by a third of an inch in width. Tlie extirpation was performed through an incision in the eyelid. Upon microscopical examination, the enlargement was found to be due to an increase in the fibrous tissue, with little, if any, alteration of the glandular substance. 1887 From Francis C, aged 14, a boy of dark complexion. The swelling was first observed in April, 1886, but in August of the same year both glands were enlarged and tender. No cause was known, except that he had experienced one or two severe falls, in which he struck his head with some violence. In August, 1886, when the patient first came under observation, the left gland was considerably larger than the right ; but the thin hard edge of each gland could be distinctly felt through the skin. There was troublesome lacrimation. See Transactions of the Ophthalmulogical Society, vol. vii. (1887), p. 54. Presented by Henry Power, Esq. SARCOMA OF THE CONJUNCTIVA. 2578a. A section through an Eyeball, showing a tumour growing beneath the conjunctiva at the upper sclero-corneal margin. The growth spreads downwards towards the cornea, which it covers, but does not infiltrate. While it was fresh, the tumour was a roundish, lobulated, and vascular growth, protruding about half an inch beyond the orbit. It was firm to the touch, and was not tender. Micro-