188 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE KIDNEYS, 2390d.. Section of a Kidney, containing a small mass of melanotic sarcoma at its upper part. 1889 Prom a man, aged 47, who had melanotic sarcoma of the skin, with secondary deposits in most of the abdominal viscera. A section of the liver is preserved in Series xxi.. No. 2209a. CHLOROMA, OR GREEN SARCOMA. 2390g. The Anterior Half of the Left Kidney, showing numerous patches of new growth, which, when fresh, were of a bright-green colour, and, on microscopical section, proved to be of a sarcomatous nature. The growths were soft, and, when fresh, they projected slightly above the surface of the glandular substance. They were situated, for the most part, deeply in the kidney substance, though some were at the periphery. The shape of one growth was suggestive of its having resulted from an infarct. 1889 From a boy, aged 10 years, who had multiple tumours of the orbits, internal ear, cerebral dura mater, and other parts. The growths were everywhere of the same greenish colour seen in the specimen. The tumours appeared to have been growing for about six months. The first symptoms were those of facial paralysis on the left side. See Marli Ward Booh for 1888, No. 15. 2390f. The posterior half of the Eight Kidney, from the same case as the preced- ing, shovring similar nodules of new growth. 1889 SARCOMA. 2391a. One half of a very large Sarcoma of the Kidney. The tumour is roughly nodular, and preserves the general outline of the gland. The vessels (of which the vein is of very large dimensions) and ureter occupy their usual positions at tlie hilum. On the cut surface it is seen that there is a large central mass, which is smooth on section. This is surrounded by a zone of loose shreddy material, and outside this is another zone, varying from two to three inches in width, composed of a smooth substance, which here and there is broken up into separate masses by bands of fibrous tissue. Microscopically, it consists mainly of small round cells. 1893 The patient was a child, aged eight and three-quarter years. A swelling on the left side of the abdomen was first noticed when she was four years old. It then appeared as a small rounded swelling a little below, and to the left of, the umbilicus. After death the tumour was found to be adherent to the abdominal wall along its left side ; the remainder, covered by peritoneum, projected into the peritoneal cavity, of which it occupied the greater part, having pushed the intestines and other viscera to one side. It weighed twenty-seven pounds, and measured forty inches in circumference. Microscopical sections are preserved in Series Iv., No. 387a. Presented by Thomas Willey, Esq. 2392a. A Kidney, from a patient upon whom the operation of nephro-lithotomy was performed eight days before death. The organ has become converted into an irregular mass, in which are many cavities of various sizes. The largest cavity opened into the operation wound. The cavities contained pus and some small calculi. The whole cortex of the gland is occupied by a mass of new growth, which was found, upon examination, to be of an epitheliomatous nature. The ureter was entirely compressed by the new growth. 1886 From a woman, aged 63, who first noticed a swelling in the left lumbar region five months before admission to the Hospital. Hiematuria was observed on a single occasion four years previously. During the last year of her life the patient had been troubled with frequent micturition, but the amount of urine passed was exceedingly small. At the operation a large branched calculus was found occupying the pelvis of the kidney. This calculus was removed piecemeal ; it consisted of uric acid encrusted with phosphates. At the autopsy the right kidney was found to be of twice the normal size and fatty. The ureter was dilated and pervious ; it contained urine. The calculus is preserved in Series lii., No. Ific. See Female Surf/ical Bcijixter, vol. iii. (1885), No. 7!)3 ; and St. Bartholomew's Hospital Reports, vol. xxi. (i885), pp. 125-127.