253 DISEASES OF THE UTERUS. A post-mortem showed that the cause of death was a large abscess in connection with a calcuhis impacted in the left ureter, the kidney on the same side having been converted into a large abscess-cavity. The rest of the viscera were normal. A microscopical examination shows that the polypus consists entirely of clotted blood, the more external and decolourised parts of which are undergoing a process of organisation into a fibrillar structure, especially where the mass is in contact with the uterine wall, or contained in the uterine sinuses. There is no trace of any foetal or placental structure. Microscopic sections are preserved. No. 599 ; also a drawing, No. 990. For further particulars see account by Dr. Griffith in the Transactions of the Obstetrical Society, vol. xxv. ; and Martha Ward Booh, vol. viii., p. 34. 29761). An Uterus, showing the site of a fibroid tumour, which had been removed two months previously. 1885 See Martha Ward Boole, March, 1884 (s. v. J. Millard). 2976d.. A Blood Polypus of the Uterus, three inches in length, which was removed by operation. It consists chiefly of blood-clot, but at one part there is to be seen a collapsed amniotic sac with chorionic villi. 1890 2983a- A Section of a large Tumour, which grew from the uterus. The tumour was a soft and rapidly growing myoma. Microscopic examination showed it to consist of the ordinary bands of a uterine fibroid with a large amount of adenoid tissue. It differs from the usual form of large fibroid in not consisting of a number of smaller tumours of similar structure. 1886 2987a. An Uterus, whose body is irregularly enlarged by the growth within its sub- stance of numerous fibroids. Glass rods have been introduced in such a manner as to show the presence of at least three intra-mural tumours. The lower part of the cavity of the uterus is occupied by an intra-uterine growth, whilst from the postero- lateral aspect is suspended a pedunculated subperitoneal fibroid. 1886 From a woman who died as the result of an accident. No history of uterine trouble was obtainable. Presented by A. J. Weakly, Esq. 2992a. Portion of a Fibroid of the Uterus, showing cysts which have developed in its substance. They are lined by a distinct membrane composed of degenerated products. There is no epithelium lining the cyst wall. 1884 2996a. An Uterine Fibroid, which has undergone calcification upon its outer surface. Its inner portion is degenerated and atrophied. 1886 From the dissecting-room. 3000a. Cystic Fibroid of the Uterus. 1884 Presented by Clement Godson, M.D. 3001a. A Fibroid Tumour in the partially developed right horn of a Bicornuate Uterus. 1891 For details of the case see Obstetrical Society's Transactions, vol. xxxix., p. 57. A drawing of the specimen, when fresh, is preserved in Series Ivii., No. 985. 3004a. A mesial section through the Female Generative Organs, showing, in addi- tion to three distinct Fibroid Tumours (Myomata) in the walls of the uterus, the occurrence also of an extensive Epithelioma of the Cervix, The vesico-vaginal septum and the posterior and lower part of the bladder are both involved, and are much thickened. 1891 3005a. The Vaginal Portion of a Cervix Uteri, which is much enlarged, and has been divided mesially to expose the cervical canal. A large area of the surface is ulcerated, the limit of the healthy and ulcerated tissue being unusually clearly 2 s