SERIES XLV[I. DEFOE,IITIES AID TTJIOIJRS OE THE PELYIS. 3104a. An Adult Female Pelvis, in which all the measurements are uniformly con- tracted. At the brim, the conjugate, the right and left oblique and the transverse all measure a little less than four inches. 3104b. Model, in Plaster, of a Pelvis, with wide separation of the symphysis pubis. The original was taken from a woman, aged thirty-nine, who had ectopion vesicae. 1884 The cast is from No. 424 in the Teratological Series of the Eoyal College of Surgeons. An account of the pelvis occurs in the Tnmsactions of the Oistetrival Society for 1884. Presented by W. S. A. Griffith, M.D. 3104c. The pelvis of a man, over sixty years of age, who had Extroversion of the Bladder. Tlie most prominent feature is the wide separation between the two pubic bones ; there are five and a half inches between the two angles of the pubes. The sacrum, which is made up of six or seven vertebrae, has special characters. The lateral masses of the first, second, and third segments are curved backwards from the bodies, instead of arching forwards. The extreme width is slightly increased, four and three quarters as against four and a half. The coccyx is only partially ossified to the last bone of the sacrum. The junction of the sacrum with the two iliac bones seems to have been ligamentous only, and there probably was considerable movement at this situation. The ossa innominata also have special characters. It should be noticed first that all the bony prominences are very much exaggerated ; the iliac crests, the spines, crests, and angles of the pubes, the eminentife and the linese ilio-pectinise, and the spines of the ischia, are all unduly prominent. The grooves for the gluteal, obturator, aud internal pudic arteries are deep and well marked. The iliac fossa on the right side is very deep, while round the margin of the left acetabulum are numerous spiculee of bone. Looked at from the front, nothing can be seen of the interior of the acetabula, whereas in a normal pelvis these cavities are clearly exposed. From behind it is seen that the posterior superior spines of the ilia are much closer together than usual (one and three quarters inches apart, as against three inches), and that the sacral spines, instead of projecting from between the back part of the iliac crests, lie deeply in the groove formed between these eminences. 1890 The soft parts from the same patient, showing the extroversion of the bladder, are preserved in Series vii., No. 3668a, of the Teratological Catalogue, to which refer for details of the case. Presented by Lovell Drage, M.D.