SERIES XLV. Presented by W. S. A. Griffith, M.D. DISEASES OP THE OVTJl AO ITS lElBRAITES. 3042a. An example of Hydatid degeneration of the Chorion, with cyst-like formations, which are somewhat larger than usual. 1886 Presented by Frank Oldfield, Esq. HYPERPLASIA OF THE CHORION STEMS, WITH PARTIAL CYSTIC DEGENERATION (MYXOMA FIBROSUM OF VIRCHOW). 3043a. A Portion of a Kidney-shaped mass, which measured eight inches in length, and which had the appearance, when fresh, of a mixed fleshy and hydatid mole. It consists almost entirely of chorion. The amnion is collapsed and compressed, and measures four inches in length. No remains of a foetus or cord are visible. It is covered by a thin layer of decidua, and in parts by blood-clot, which has penetrated deeply between the bundles of chorion stems. The stems are branched, and appear as bundles of solid rods, which interlace. The rods vary in thickness from one- sixteenth to one-eighth, and in places even to three-sixteenths of an inch in thick- ness ; they are not uniformly enlarged throughout their whole length, but vary in difierent parts. The tliickening of the stems is due to an increase of the normal myxomatous core tissue. All the rods, examined microscopically, are devoid of blood-vessels, the exochorionic epithelium has in places disappeared, but in general appears to be normal. In some places cystic degeneration has occurred, but the cysts are not numerous. 1888 From a woman, aged 39, the mother of eight children, the last of whom was born in January, 1886. The patient believed that she again conceived, in March, 1886, the abdomen increasing in size until the following October. In June and July there was an occasional slight discharge of blood-stained fluid. After October the abdomen decreased, and, on January 25th, 1887, the mass was expelled without haemorrhage, twenty-four hours after the commencement of pains. See Transactions of the Obstetrical Society, vol. xxix. (1888), p. 82, Presented by W. 8. A. Griffith, M.D. FIBROUS DEGENERATION OF PLACENTA. 3044a. A Portion of a Placenta, to which the UmbiHcal Cord is still attached. The uterine surface is broken up into irregular rounded masses, measuring from one to two inches in thickness. The largest of these has been cut across, and shows a solid white surface. Microscopical examination showed that it is composed of fibrous tissue. 1893