HERNIA, OR PROTRUSIONS, AND OTHER 148 vascularis, extends down from the back of the cfecum towards the hernial sac, which is now empty and collapsed. It does not communicate with the cavity of the tunica vaginalis. 1891 The child was three months old, and the symptoms of strangulation had lasted one day. At the time of the operation the csecum and vermiform appendix were found in a well-formed sac, and easily returned after division of the stricture. The child died four days later from bronchitis. 2111c. A portion of the abdominal wall, from which protrudes a Hernia of the Cfecum. At the operation the gut, which had become gangrenous, was found to have given way. It was stitched to the margins of the ring, and freely opened. A blue rod has been passed through the external opening into the small intestine. A small green rod marks the orifice of the vermiform appendix, and a red rod is passed into the large intestine. The continuation of the large intestine is much shrunken and contracted from disease, and is now no larger than the ileum. 1891 The child was aged three months, and lived five weeks after the operation. For full notes of this and the preceding specimen see a paper by Mr. Stephen Paget (by whom the specimens were presented) in the Lancet, vol. i. (1891), p. 928. RADICAL CURE OF C^CAL HERNIA. 2111d. A Cfecum, Vermiform Appendix, Eight Testis, and surrounding structures, removed in the course of an operation for the radical cure of a hernia. A green glass rod protrudes from the last two inches of the ileum; a fine green glass rod is sewn on to the vermiform appendix, the extremity of which is curved downwards and fixed by adhesions to the under and posterior portion of the cfecum, and a fine blue glass rod is sewn on to the jDeritoneum covering the spermatic cord immediately above the testis. Owing to a previous but unsuccessful operation, the parts are considerably displaced from their normal positions, thus, the Cfecum has passed down behind the peritoneum into the scrotum, so that it is covered by peritoneum on its anterior and inner surface only. 1893 From a boy, aged four, on whom an operation for the cure of a right inguinal hernia had been previously performed in a provincial hospital. During the course of the second operation it was found impossible to separate the Cfecum from the walls of the sac. The csecum was therefore removed, together with the testis, and the distal end of the ileum was joined to the proximal end of the ascending colon. The boy made an excellent recovery. See Male Surgical Register, vol. iii. (1892), No. 848. 2115a. Sac of a femoral hernia, from an aged female. The walls of the sac are exceedingly thin, and it only contains a mass of fibrous substance with a laminated calcareous centre. 1888 Presented by C. B. Lockwood, Esq. 2115b. A retro-peritoneal hernia of the Vermiform Appendix. The appendix lay in an isolated sac by the side of the pouch of an inguinal hernia. The hernial sac formed by the upper part of the processus vaginalis is very long, and it is throughout blended with the fibres of the internal cremaster muscle. A glass rod has been passed into the lumen of the vermiform appendix, which is situated immediately behind the sac. 1889 From a child, aged ten weeks, who was admitted with symptoms of strangulated hernia. The anterior sac was opened, but no intestine was found in it. The child died, and at the autopsy an intussusception of the small intestines was found. See Male Surgical Register, vol. iv. (1888), No. 2586. 2115c. A retro-peritoneal hernia of the Vermiform Appendix, which lies curled up and partially concealed in an enlarged and elongated fossa sub-C£ecalis. 1890 From the dissecting-room. Presented by C. B. Lockwood, Esq.