247 DISEASES OF THE UTERINE APPENDAGES. TUBO-OVARIAN CYST. 2937c. The specimen consists of one half of ta dilated Fallopian tube, and of a small Unilocular Cyst of the Ovary. The extremity of the tube has become adherent to the ovarian cyst, and communicates with it l3y means of a minute orifice, in which a small green glass rod has been placed. 1893 2938a. Two specimens of Tubercular disease of the Fallopian tubes. In the upper specimen, the right ovary, with its Fallopian tube and broad ligament, is alone pre- served. The Fallopian tube is greatly thickened and enlarged for the outer three- quarters of its extent, and is filled with a caseating material. The ovary contains two well-marked blood-cysts. From a woman, aged 22, who had symptoms of advanced pulmonary phthisis, with tuber- cular ulceration of the bowels. In the lower specimen an uterus with its appendages are preserved. The Fallo- pian tubes are greatly distended and filled with fine caseating material, except at tlieir fimbriated extremities, which are filled with a thick cheesy pus. The uterus is healthy. 1886 From a woman, aged 19, who died with pulmonary phthisis. Sections of the Fallopian tubes, showing tubercle bacilli, are preserved in Series Iv., Nos. 587 and 588. Presented by Percy Kidd, M.D. CYSTIC TUMOURS CONNECTED WITH THE BROAD LIGAMENT. 2942a. A Cyst of the Broad Ligament (not parovarian), showing the thick septa which are often met with in multilocular ovarian cysts. 1886 Presented by W. S. A. Griffith, M.D. 2942b. Portion of a Parovarian Cyst, showing a secondary cyst which has developed upon its wall. The Fallopian tube has been laid open ; its posterior fimbrife are seen as streaks radiating towards the ovary. 1886 A drawing of the specimen is preserved in Series Ivii., No. 967. 2942c. A large Parovarian Cyst of the right side, situated between the layers of the broad ligament, and measuring six inches in its long diameter. Its walls are rather thicker than usual. The Fallopian tube is elongated, and extends along the top of the cyst, which has been laid open. The ovary is the seat of a dermoid cyst, and contains hairs and sebaceous material. 1892 The left ovary also contained a dermoid cyst, and was removed at the same operation. See No. 2915b of this Series. Presented by F. H. Champneys, M.D., and W. A. Meredith, Esq.