10 DISEASES OF BONES. Frnm a woman, aged 46, who had swelling and pain in her foot after a slight injury. When she first came under observation, two months after the injury, there were two dischargincr sinuses situated on the inner and dorsal surfaces of the foot. On passing a probe along the sinuses, bare bone could be felt in the neighbourhood of the os calcis. The patient made a good recovery after the performance of Syme's amputation. See Female Surgicnl Becjister, vol. iv. (1889), No. 1887. ACUTE NECROSIS. 180a. The Left Malar Bone of a child, aged five years, which was removed as a sequestrum after Acute Necrosis following a blow three months previously. With the exception of the zygomatic process and parts of the internal surface, where there has been some slight erosion, the bone has undergone hardly any loss of substance. 1893 See Female Surgical Rirjistev, vol. iii. (1892), No. 1774. 188a. A portion of the Right Innominate Bone, including the Acetabulum. The ascending ramus of the ischium, with that portion of the body which bounds the thyroid foramen, is stripped of its periosteum and has undergone necrosis. The necrosis is limited anteriorly by the cartilage intervening between the ascending ramus of the ischium and the descending ramus of the pubes. 1889 From a boy, aged 10 years, who was quite well until a fortnight before his death, when he received a kick on the thigh. Five days after the injury he had pain in all his joints, and when first seen, his right thigh was swollen and there was considerable induration over the pectineus and gracilis. Nine days later the boy died of pyEemia. See Male Surgical Eegister, vol. iii. (1889), No. 19. 190a. The Lower Third of a Femur, with a Sequestrum involving a portion of the posterior surface and centre of the shaft; the dead bone is partially enclosed by new bone and the thickened wall of the shaft. The surface of the lower extremity of the femur is extensively carious ; the knee was affected with destructive disease. 1881 (In Case F.) 190b. A Section of the Lower Two-Thirds of the Shaft of the Right Femur, showing a cavity in the anterior surface containing a sequestrum measuring an inch and a half in length. The walls of the cavity are very dense and thick ; its bottom is formed by a mass of sclerosed bone, and its roof by a similar mass of bone, which has been newly formed by the periosteum, as a result of the continued irritation. The cavity communicates with the exterior by means of two apertures. The edges of the sequestrum are thinned, as if they were undergoing absorption, and it lies quite loosely in the cavity. The shaft of the femur in the neighbourhood of the sequestrum is of the density of ivory. 1888 (In Case P.) From a coachmaker, aged 25, who had typhoid fever in October, 1885. He felt shooting pains in his thigh during convalescence, and an abscess subsequently developed in the popliteal space. The abscess healed, but was followed by many others, which healed like the first. The amputation was performed on May 21st, 1887. The sequestrum could not be felt during life, and was not detected until the femur had been divided. See Male Surgical Eegister, vol. i. (1887), No. 141, and St. Bartholomew's Hospital Reports, vol. xxiii., pp. 220-222. 194a. A Section of the Upper End of a Tibia. A portion of the extremity of the diaphysis about three inches in length, is necrosed, and lies in a cavity formed by a thin layer of new sub-periosteal bone, which is perforated by cloacas. The surface of the sequestrum is very irregular as if from absorption, and it is surrounded by granulation-tissue, which connects it with the surrounding new bone. The limita- tion of the disease at the intermediary cartilage between the epiphysis and diaphysis is very distinct. 1881