DISEASES OP JOINTS. 30 From a man, aged 25, who was kicked on the knee by a horse five years previously ; three years after the injury a tumonr as large as an orange was noticed in the head of the tibia ; four years after the injury the tibia was fractured just below the tumour. The tumour on examination was found to be a myeloid sarcoma expanding the head of the tibia over it. The thigh was amputated three weeks after the removal of the sarcoma. The cartilage of the intcrDal femoral condyle was then found to be ulcerating, the bone being eroded. A hole as large as a shilling existed in the upper reflexion of the synovial membrane, forming the com- munication between the knee-joint and an abscess on the outer side and lower part of the thigh. See Male Surgical Register, vol. iv. (1884), No. 1788, STRUMOUS DISEASE. 579a. Section of a Knee-Joint, injected, affected with Strumous Disease. The synovial membrane is unnaturally vascular, its inner surface was covered with shreds of lymph, and its cavity was distended with fluid. The cartilage covering the condyles of the femur is easily separated from the bone, and traces of erosion are observable, both superficial, and extending from the deeper surface of the cartilage externally. The bones are injected. 1881 From a child, whose limb was amputated at the hip, for disease of that joint. 591a. An Astragalus. The cartilage upon the superior articular surface is penetrated by several apertures produced by ulceration. From some of these apertures, fistulous passages pass into the bone, which is carious around them. Portions of glass rod are inserted into the carious channels. 1881 From a patient whose foot was amputated for disease of the ankle-joint. 596a. The Head of the Right Humerus, removed by the operation of Excision. The cartilage over the whole articular surface is ulcerated, and at one spot there is a deep carious hole in the bone. The ligaments were completely softened. 1888 From an unmarried woman, aged 30, who had observed some stiffness of the right shoulder- joint for ten years. For two years she had a sinus on the outer side of her right arm. See Female Surgieal Register, vol. i. (1887). No. 2315. 621a. The Upper Third of the Right Femur from a case of Hip-Joint Disease, apparently commencing as an inflammation of the epiphysis. The shaft is atrophied, and measures less than half an inch in diameter. The cartilage covering the head of the bone is almost entirely worn away, the bone itself being carious upon its upper and anterior surfaces. There is a small cavity in the head, situated upon its anterior surface at the line of junction with the epiphysis. 1887 Removed by Furneaux Jordan's amputation from a boy, aged eight years, who had hip-joint disease with diffuse suppuration of the thigh. The duration of the disease was eighteen months. See JFalc Surgical Register, vol. i. (1886), No. 3410*. 621b. The Left Femur from a case of Hip-Disease. The head of the bone is ulcerated in parts, and the cartilage covering it has been completely destroyed. The epiphysis is almost separated and has undergone a process of rarefying osteitis. A series of abscesses have eroded the posterior aspect of the upper half of the bone. 1888 From a girl, aged three years, who died of broncho-pneumonia the day after her admission to the Hospital, and before any notes of her case had been taken. At the autopsy the cartilage of the acetabulum was found to be slightly ulcerated. See Surgical Post-Murtem Book for 1887, p. 156. ACUTE EPIPHYSITIS. 621c. The Upper Two-thirds of the Right Tibia and Fibula, from a case of Acute Epiphysitis. The upper ei)iphysis of the tibia is completely separated from the shaft of the bone. The shaft is dead, and is undergoing a process of rarefying osteitis for a distance of two inches below the epiphysial line. The epiphysis is also dying, but the necrosis has not as yet extended to the articular cartilage. In