SERIES XXXI. DISEASES km IIJTJEIES OF THE SPIIAI CORD AND ITS lEMBEAMS. 2531a. A Spinal Cord, exhibiting in the dorsal region that condition of the mem- branes known as " Pachymeningitis." The membranes are fused to form a tough, white, leathery mass about a fifth of an inch in thickness. This thickening involves rather more than one-third of the circumference of the sheath, and is closely adherent to the cord along the posterior half of its circumference. The cord at this point is much flattened out, measuring rather more than a fifth of an inch antero- posteriorly. Here also the cord is twisted and distorted, being drawn round from right to left, so that the thickened mass, though it was adherent over the posterior segment, lay in its bony canal rather to the left side. The posterior roots are involved in the membranes on both sides. The anterior roots are natural. 1884 Sections of the cord are preserved in Series Iv., No. 458. Tlie case is described, by Dr. Tooth, in Brain, for July, 1884, pp. 254-258. SARCOMA OF THE SPINAL CORD. 2541a. The Spinal Cord, from a case of multiple sarcomata affecting the brain and cord. The cord appears to be healthy, and its membranes can readily be separated as far as the lumbar swelling. From this point down to the cauda equina a tumour has grown from the cord, implicating the membranes, and rendering them so adherent that they cannot be separated without lacerating the nerve substance. The tumour has spread down the nerves. It slightly eroded the bodies of the vertebrse. Microscopically, the tumour is a round-celled sarcoma. 1887 From a woman, aged 39, who became pregnant in the early part of November, 1885. In January, 1886, she began to suffer from anajsthesia of the legs, which was soon followed by pain in the back of the legs, extending, at a later period, to the hips and loins. In February, paraplegia set in, with paralysis of the sphincters. On June 24th, there was slight optic neuritis, and subsequently, pain in the head and delirium. The patient died on August 14th. From June 3rd to July 20th her temperature often rose to 100*. and was sometimes higher ; after the latter date, however, it never exceeded 99°F., and during the last ten days of the patient's life it became subnormal. At the autopsy numerous sarcomatous tumours were found in the brain and dura mater. The brain is preserved in Series xxx.. No. 2499c. See Hope Ward Booli for 1886, *, v. S. Pelly, and Tmnsactiuns of the Pathological Society, vol. xxxviii., p. 43. INCISED WOUND OF CORD. 2548a. Sections of the upper part of a Spinal Column, with the Spinal Cord. A glass rod is passed between the laminai of the third and fourth cervical vertebraj on their left side, through the intervertebral cartilage, and into a hole in the membranes. Opposite this spot the cord has been externally injured. The anterior lateral columns on both sides, the whole of the grey matter, and the anterior part of the