DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS. 145 they are partially covered by skin and partially by mucous membrane. The central round mass is, however, entirely covered by mucous membrane, and is, therefore, an internal pile. 1887 See Male Surgical Register, vol. iii. (1886), No. 1810. 2078a. Portions of a Rectum and Sigmoid Flexure, at the junction of which is a wound of the intestine produced by an enema tube. The mucous surface of the gut is ulcerated at the seat of injury, but not elsewhere. On the peritoneal surface the intestine is slightly discoloured, but there is no extensive peritonitis, the inflammation being limited to an exudation of lymph over the wounded surface and the silk sutures, which had been inserted shortly after the accident. Small portions of the stitches may be seen on the outer surface of the gut under the overlapping appendices epiploicte, which at the post-mortem were adherent to the subjacent intestine and completely covered the sutures. No trace of the silk is visible on the internal surface of the intestine. 1882 From a woman, in whom the injury occurred during the passing of a long enema tube, a soap injection being subsequently thrown into the peritoneal cavity. Abdominal section was performed shortly after, and the gut sewn up. She died in about forty-eight hours. See Lucas Ward Book, vol. vii., p. 424. 2079a. The Rectum and Pelvic Organs of a female child, on whom an operation was performed for the cure of imperforate rectum. This has been laid open from behind. Its mucous membrane is smooth and free from inflammation. 1890 From a child, who died, at the age of five weeks, of exhaustion. At birth there was a cul cle sac about an inch long, but no impulse could be felt. Left inguinal colotomy was performed on the third day after birth. Ten days later a director was passed down the bowel, the cul de sac was everted over the director, pushed out at the anus, incised, and dilated. Presented by Stephen Paget, Esq. 2079b. The Rectum and Bladder, together with the Kidneys, of an infant, three days old, on whom an operation had been performed for the relief of imperforate anus. The rectum has been laid open from behind. Its walls for the last inch are much thickened from acute oedema and inflammation. The mucous membrane is also much ulcerated. The right kidney is rudimentary, and weighed only a few grains. It had no ureter. The descending colon was found running straight down the middle line of the body, with no sigmoid flexure. The baby died with symptoms of suppression of urine. 1890 Presented by Stephen Paget, Esq. 2079c. The lower part of the Sigmoid Flexure and Rectum, together with the Bladder of an infant, who had an imperforate rectum. The whole of the bowel, especially the lowest part, is greatly distended. An irregular opening, about six inches from the rectum, was made at an operation during life to relieve the obstruction. Previously to this an attempt had been made through the imperforate rectum to reach the distended bowel, but unsuccessfully. A green rod shows where a trochar passed into the peritoneal cavity. 1891 From a child, who was 13 days old when submitted to operation. As the attempt to relieve it per anum failed, an incision in the middle line was made above the pubes, and the distended bowel stitched to the skin and then opened. The child did not rally, and died the second day after the operation. At the post-mortem examination a small Meckel's diverticulum of the small intestine was found. This is preserved in Series vi. of the Teratological Catalogue, No. 3638d. Presented by Stephen Paget, Esq. 2080a. Portion of the lower end of the Rectum with the anus, removed for cancer. At the lower portion of the specimen is the cut end of the rectum which is free from disease. 1881 Presented by W. Harrison Cripps, Esq.