GENERAL PATHOLOGY. 279 had infiltrated the muscles, and had grown in and among the bundles of muscular tissue. This is clearly seen in the cut surface of the specimen, where long thin strips of muscle occur, separated from each other by fat. 1892 A drawing of the tumour, when fresh, is preserved in Series Ivii., No. 1190. See Male Surgical Register, vol. iii. (1890), No. 1284. 3251a. A Fatty Tumour, removed from the sole of the foot of a child, aged thirteen months, in whom it had been growing since birth. The tumour is not encapsuled, and consists of ordinary fatty tissue enclosed in a fibrous framework. A similar tumour was removed from the sole of the opposite foot. 1S8G Casts of the feet are preserved in Series Ivi., No. 211a. See Pathological Societifs Transactions, vol. xxxvii., p. 4.50. Presented by C. B. Lockwood, Esq. 3261a. A Cartilaginous Tumour, removed from the neighbourhood of the knee-joint. The tumour is oval in shape, and has a rough, irregular contour. It is covered by a layer of dense connective tissue, and measures one and three quarter inches in length by an inch in breadth at its widest part. The section shows that it consists of several masses of hyaline cartilage, united together by connective tissue. The largest of these masses is the most central ; it is completely calcified, except at its circumference, which still remains cartilaginous. A pad of fat is attached to the posterior surface of the tumour by the fibrous-tissue coat which invests the entire mass. 1888 From a blacksmith, aged 53, who stated that he had noticed a small fiat lump growing for two months immediately below the patella, and almost in the middle line. At the time of removal it appeared as if the mass sprang from the suh-synovial membrane of the knee-joint. A cast of the knee, made before the operation, is preserved in Series Ivi., No. 71c. See Male Surgical Register, vol. i. (1888), No. 1503. 3264a. A Tumour, removed from the scalp over the left parietal bone by a series of ligatures. The operation of removal occupied over four mouths. After removal it weighed two and a half pounds. 1885 The tumour consists of fibrous tissue. It is very vascular. Presented by F. F. Andrews, M.D. 3266a- A Congenital Tumour, removed from the pinna of the ear of a boy, aged fourteen years. The tumour measures three and a half inches in length by two inches in diameter. It is shining, and is of a dense and uniform consistency, smooth externally, but growing into large processes internally. Microscopically, the tumour is a pure fibroma. 1889 A drawing of the patient, from whom the growth was removed, is preserved in the collec- tion of drawings of congenital malformations, Series Ivii., No. 1341. See Male Surgical Register, vol. iii. (1887), No. 3264. 3276a. A Fibromatous Tumour of the Skin, which was removed by operation from the subclavicular region of the neck. It consists of a number of tuberculated masses, rounded in shape and connected with each other by the deeper portions of the skin from which they spring. The largest mass is about one and a half inches in diameter : the subcutaneous tissue is thickened. In its general characters it closely resembles the " recurrent fibroid " tumour described by Sir James Paget : its structure is that of a spindle-celled sarcoma. 1891 From a lady, aged 44, who, as a child, was liable to warts, which disappeared of their own accord. The tumour began to grow at the age of twelve ; various methods of treatment by caustics were tried without avail : it was, therefore, removed freely with the knife, but small nodules appeared in the scar in a few months. A microscopical section of the tumour is preserved in Series Iv., No. 730. See St. 13arthulomvn:''s Hosjjital Rejjorts, vol. xxvi., p. 147.