DISEASES AND INJURIP:S OF THE INTESTINES. 129 of the simple variety, and appears to be due to the meclianical distension and irrita- tion to which its walls have been subjected. At the upper portion of the preparation the peritoneum has given way, and the extreme tenuity of the muscular coat is well seen. At one spot the wall has been accidentally ruptured in removing the preparation from the body. 1887 From a man, aged 47, who died from the effects of cancer of the rectum. The cancerous symptoms had only existed for six months. See 31ale Surgical Register, vol. i. (1887), No. 937. 1966a. Portions of a duodenum and stomach. Immediately beyond the pylorus are four irregularly shaped ulcers, with raised indurated margins and deeply excavated bases. One of these has perforated the intestine, with the exception of the peritoneal coat. The pancreas is firmly fixed to the gut by strong adhesions. 1883 From a man, aged 49, who died of pulmonary mischief of long standing. No symptoms pointing to the condition of the duodenum were noticed during the time he was in the Hospital. See account of case by Dr. Moore in the Transactions of the Path nloff ical Socii-ty, vol. xxxiv. 1967a. Portion of a stomach and duodenum. At the commencement of the latter is an irregularly circular ulcer, with raised and thickened edges, and an uneven base. A bristle is passed through a small aperture in the floor, into a branch of the pancreatic artery, which was opened up by the process of ulceration. As in the preceding specimen, the pancreas is thickened and adherent to the gut. A micro- scopic examination showed no evidence of any new growth. 1882 From a man, aged 34, who died from hfemorrhage into the bowels. See Fost-Mortem Book, vol. ix., p. 236. The specimen was shown by Dr. Moore at the Pathological Society. Session 1882-1883. 1968a. A portion of the small intestine with the ctecum, and a part of the large intestine. In the c^cum, and again in the large intestine, are two circular ulcers with thickened edges, resembling the chronic ulcers found in the stomach. Midway between the two ulcers is a thinner portion of intestinal wall. The ulcers have perforated all the intestinal coats, and the fsecal extravasation which occurred led to death from peritonitis. 1888 From a woman, aged 49, who stated that she had been quite well until she had been thrown out of a cart two days before her admission to the Hospital. On the day following the accident she suffered great pain in her abdomen and was constantly sick. A fortnight later an ill-defined swelling, giving a sense of resistance upon pressure, was observed in the course of the ascending colon and half way across the transverse colon. She had some diarrhoea, and her temperature rose gradually to 101'2° F. The patient gradually became weaker, and died about two months after her admission. See Female Surgical Register, vol. i. (1887), No. 1746, and St. Bartholomew's Ilosjiital Reports, vol. xxiii., pp. 215-217. 1969a. The Duodenum of a Child, aged twelve months, who died on the twentieth day after an extensive scald of the chest. When fresh, the specimen showed the signs of acute inflammation and of some ulceration. Traces of these conditions are still seen in the discolouration and thickening of the mucous membrane. 1890 See Female Surgical Register, vol. iii. (1888), No, 1253. DYSENTERY. 1970a. The Descending Colon with the upper part of the Sigmoid Flexure, from a case of chronic diarrhoea occurring in an Insane Person. The intestine has been laid open, showing that the mucous membrane is much hypertrophied. Running for the most part parallel to the long axis of the bowel are deep, irregular, but narrow ulcers, which extend down to, and in one instance has perforated, the