DISEASES AND INJURIES OF AETBRIES. 79 next vessels, one on either side of the trachea : the right recurrent laryngeal nerve passes, as is usual in this variety, beneath the aorta, instead of beneath the sub- clavian. Immediately above the origin of the carotids and at the junction of the ascending and transverse portions of the arch, the whole vessel is enlarged and dilated, the enlargement passing down to and gradually fading off at the origin of the coeliac axis (see next specimen) ; the surface of the aneurysm is irregular and nodular ; it has largely displaced both the trachea and oesophagus : it caused severe dyspnoea, and later on dysphai^ia and paralysis of the right side of the larynx : the arch of tlie aorta rises much higher than usual, and the heart itself is considerably enlarged : the remains of the ductus arteriosus is seen passing from the top of the pulmonary artery to the left subclavian. 1892 The patient was a man, aged 89, who died about eleven, months after the onset of symptoms. The specimen is probably quite unique, only twenty instances of this anatomical variety being known, none of which are described as aneurysmal. Presented by W. P. Herringham, M.D. 1450b. The remaining portion of the thoracic and abdominal aorta from the pre- ceding specimen (to which refer) : in the main, the aneurysmal dilatation ceases at the origin of the coeliac axis. 1892 FUSIFORM ANEURYSM OF THE AXILLARY ARTERY. 1452a. A Portion of the left subclavian and axillary arteries. The commencement of the third part of the subclavian has been tied with a silk ligature, and is filled with clot for half an inch from its end. The axillary is dilated into a fusiform aneurysm, which extended for five inches along the axillary trunk. In the recent state it contained a very little old clot and some recent soft clot. 1887 From a man, aged 54, The subclavian was tied in the third part of its course for an aneurysm of the axillary artery. The artery was large at the seat of ligature, and was slightly adherent to its sheath, but no difficulty was experienced in performing the operation. A slightly flattened kangaroo tendon was used. The artery was tied in two places, with an interval of about two-thirds of an inch between the two ligatures, and the vessel was divided. Half an hour after the operation violent hemorrhage occurred, which was con- trolled with difficulty by mears of pressure. It was found that the ligature had slipped off the proximal end of the divided artery. A silk ligature was applied, but not before a large quantity of blood had been lost. The patient died the same night. See 3IaJe Surgical Register, vol. ii., 1887, No. 247. 1452b. The upper portion of the Heart together with the Arch of the Aorta from the preceding specimen. The ascending part of the arch is considerably dilated. TRUE SACCULATED ANEURYSM, RESULTING FROM THE LODGMENT OF AN EMBOLUS. 1460a. Part of the Aorta and Iliac Arteries of the same child from whom No. 1299a was taken. At the orifice of the right external iliac is a small, true, saccu- lated aneurysm about the size of a nut, filled with a laminated coagulum, the artery below being also occluded by a decolorised clot. ' 1882 It seems probable that the occlusion of the artery was originally caused by the detachment of a portion of one of the growths on the aurtic valves and its lodgment in this situation, the walls of the artery being subsequently dilated. Microscopic examination showed that all the coats were intact. The specimen was shown by Dr. Norman Moore at the Pathological Society, Session 1882-1883. 1460b. The Arteries of the Lower Extremities of a girl who had multiple emboli followed by the formation of aneurysms. The right common iliac artery near its seat of bifurcation contains a calcareous embolus, which is kept in place by a loop of white silk. The arterial wall immediately round the embolus is ulcerated, thinned, and expanded. The greater part of the external iliac and the ujiper part of the femoral is occluded by recent clot, which resulted from the ligature of the common