72 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE 1271b. A Heart showing an ante-naortem clot firmly adherent to the pulmonary valves. There are several smaller clots, which also appear to have been formed before death, entangled in the columniB carneae of the right ventricle. 1888 From a girl, aged 19 years, who died of phthisis. She was in articulu muvtis for two days. See Medical PosUMortem, Register, vol. xii., p. 320. 1280a. A new Growth, having the appearance and histological characters of a Syphilitic Gumma ; it springs from the inner surfaces of the posterior wall of the left auricle, and extends into the muscular substance of the wall. It is of softish consistence, and of a light yellow colour. The right ventricle is dilated. 1881 From an old man who died shortly after admission to the Hospital for gangrene of the penis. There were similar growths in the liver, but no other evidences of syphilis. Histologically, the growth consists of degenerating fibrillar tissue, in which a reticulum is distinguishable in places ; but no giant cells are found. 1285b. A Heart, the substance of which is studded with a number of small white Sarcomatous Tumours. 1881 From a woman, ageil 41 years, who died with generally disseminated sarcomatous tumours, secondary to a small melanotic, slightly raised, warty growth, which was removed from the sole of the foot seven months previously. See Sitrvell Ward Booh, vol. vi., p. 262. 1295a. A Heart showing a large Hydatid Cyst in the outer wall of the left ventricle. The cyst has been laid open, and is situated in the muscular wall of the heart; it is lined by a thick white membrane. The whole heart is enlarged. 1890 From a brewer's drayman, aged 50, who was at work until five minutes before he died, when he was seized with sudden syncope, from which he did not recover. The cyst had not burst, but was found to contain a number of small acephalous hydatids. Presented by John Adams, Ksq. 1299a. The Heart of a child, aged seven. The left ventricle is much hypertrophied, and the auricle on the same side somewhat dilated. On the ventricular surface of the mitral valve are several small growths, and the aortic orifice is greatly obstructed by growths of a similar nature, though much larger, one of which is partially calci- fied ; the aortic valves are incompetent. 1882 Some years previously the patient had suffered from an attack of acute rheumatism. The external iliac artery, which is plugged and aneurysmal, is preserved.—See No. 1460a. 1299b. The Heart removed from a girl, aged twenty, who had multiple aneurysms of the arteries of the extremities following the formation of emboli. The organ is the seat of ulcerative endocarditis, and it appears to have been diseased for a considerable period before death. The aortic valves are covered with vegetations and calcareous matter. The sinuses of Valsalva are dilated so as to form aneurysmal pouches. 1887 For further details and a history of the case, see Series viii., Nos. 1460 b, c, d. 1299c. A Heart affected with Ulcerative Endocarditis. The aortic valves are extensively ulcerated, the cusps being ragged and in great part destroyed. Shreds of decolourised and recent blood-clot adhere to the ulcerated surfaces. An ulcer has penetrated the mitral valve, and a clot is adherent to the diseased tissue in the left auricle. 1887 From a man, aged 32, who caught a cold three weeks before admission to the Hospital. The cold commenced with a severe rigor and diarrhoea. He subsequently developed symp- toms of septicEemia, and died a month after the first onset of the disease. See Male Surgical Register, vol. i. (1885), No. 2789. 1299d.. The Heart of a Young Woman, aged twenty-five, who died of Ulcerative Endocarditis. The left ventricle has been laid open to show the condition of the aortic orifice, The valves themselves are thinned and torn, and the sinuses of Valsalva