80 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF ARTERIES. femoral artery in Scarpa's triangle shortly before death. The right femoral and popliteal arteries are patent and apj^arently healthy, but the posterior tibial opens by a small ulcerated aperture, through which a blue glass rod has been passed, into a large false aneurysm of the calf, which is formed by the condensation of the soft tissues of the organised blood-clot. The left external iliac artery presents an aneurysmal dilatation, which is apparently of recent date. Lower down, both this artery and the common femoral are entirely occluded by calcareous matter and by old decolorised clot. 1887 From a girl, aged 20, who was admitted into St. Bartholomew's Hospital suffering from aneurysmal swellings at the bend of the right elbow and in the right popliteal space, respectively of three and four weeks duration. The heart was diseased and the aneurysms were considered to be of embolic origin. After treatment by rest and pressure, which at first appeared to be beneficial, the swelling in the arm rapidly increased, in such a manner as to render it probable that the aneurysm was becoming diffused. On this account the brachial artery was tied above the bend of the elbow, the vessel being secured by two ligatures and divided between them. The operation was followed by cessation of pulsation and slight diminution in the size of the aneurysm. Within a few days the popliteal swelling also began to cx'tend ; the superficial femoral artery was therefore tied in Scarpa's triangle in the same way as the brachial, and with equally good results. Six weeks after admission the patient had a sudden attack of left hemiplegia, with pain in the right thigh and leg, followed by complete loss of pulsation in all the arteries of the right lower extremity. The aneurysmal swellings gave no further trouble and slowly decreased in size. The patient became weaker, and died eight weeks after admission. A post-mortem examination showed that the aorta at one spot was almost completely ulcerated through. The spleen and kidneys were scarred by the lodgment of emboli. See also Series vii., No. ]299b, and for drawings, Series Ivii., Nos. 195-200 ; and Transactions of the Royal Medico-Chirurgioal Society, vol. Ixx., p. 117. 1460c. Portions of the Right Brachial, Radial, and Ulnar Arteries, from the same case as the preceding. The swelling is formed by an aneurysmal sac, which has mainly resulted from the condensation of the surrounding soft tissues, but it is lined by old blood-clot. The sac communicates with the brachial artery by means of a small ulcerated aperture situated just above the bifurcation of the vessel. In the recent state tiiis opening was occupied by clot, but a blue glass rod has now been passed through it to render its situation more apparent. The radial and ulnar arteries immediately below the opening both contain calcareous emboli, but of these the one which occupies the latter vessel is seen as a small white patch. 1887 1460d.. The Arteries of the Base of the Brain, removed from the same patient as the preceding. The branches of the right middle cerebral are plugged in several places by recent emboli. 1887 1466a. The Arch and a portion of the descending Aorta, showing a dissecting aneurysm of this vessel. At the junction of the descending portion of the arch with the thoracic aorta is a calcareous plate, measuring one-third of an inch in length, and situated in the posterior wall of the vessel. This is cracked across, a transverse linear fissure allowing of the escape of blood between the middle and outer coats of the artery. The escaped blood extended about one-third round the aorta, tracked down the whole length of the vessel, and made its way between the coats of the two iliac arteries. Some portions of a laminated clot are still visible attached to the separated aortic walls. 1886 A woman, aged 55, was suddenly seized with severe pain in the epigastrium ; she vomited several times. The pain and vomiting continued with remissions until she died unexpectedly at the end of a week from the onset of the first symptoms. See St. Bartholomew's Hospital Reports, vol. xxi. (1885), pp. 211-210. Sections are preserved in Series Iv., Nos. 126 and 127. RUPTURED ANEURYSM. 1469a. A Popliteal Artery and Vein. The posterior surface of the former is the seat of a small aneurysm, about the size of a walnut ; only about two-thirds of the