192 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE URINARY BLADDER. 2405a. The Bladder of a Child, in which there has been an extensive haemorrhage beneath the mucous membrane. An effusion of blood was also found to have occurred into the substance of both kidneys. 1891 From a child who died of tubercular meningitis. The kidneys are preserved in Series xxviii., No. 2389a, and drawings of both organs, when recent, in Series Ivii., Nos. 637 and 644. See Male Surgical Register, vol. v. (1890), No. 679. 2408a. A Bladder, from which the whole of the mucous lining, preserved in specimen No. 2408b, has sloughed. The bladder wall is soft and easily lacerated, and its inner surface is rough and ulcerated. The prostate is natural, but the urethra has sloughed round an aperture in the perineum. The cajcum was found to be adherent to the upper surface of the bladder ; but on separating the two surfaces, the whole of the fundus separated as a slough, leaving the aperture seen in the specimen. The edges of the bladder, after the separation of the slough, presented a ragged border. The kidneys were in a condition of tubal nephritis. There was no stricture of the urethra. 1888 See Trcmsactkms uf tliePatltologkal Suciety, vol. xxxix., p. 164. 2408b. The whole of the Mucous Membrane of the Urinary Bladder, with a portion of the muscular coat, which was found as a slough in the bladder, preserved as specimen No. 2408a. The surface of the slough is covered with a rough phosphatic deposit. 1888 From a man, aged 36, who was admitted with retention of urine of three days' duration. A small catgut was passed upon a railroad catheter and retained, three or four pints of urine draining away. Much blood passed, and it was conjectured that the bladder contained blood- clot. Though the urethra admitted a No. 10 English catheter five days after admission, the patient was unable to void urine spontaneously, and in spite of antiseptic precautions, the urine became foul and ammoniacal. A month after admission perineal cystotomy was per- formed, but was followed by only temporary improvement; suppuration continued, and he died two months after admission. See Male Surgical Bcgistcr, vol. v. (1887), No. 2487. 2410a. A Bladder, which presents a well-marked pouch. Tlie viscus is heart-shaped ; the left side is thicker and smaller than the right; it is the true bladder. Glass rods have been passed through the prostatic urethra and through each ureter. Between and below the openings of the ureters is a deep nd de sac, large enough to admit the tip of the little finger. The right portion of the bladder is the larger ; it is separated from the left by a strong fibrous band. The mucous membrane of the whole organ is inflamed, and is in some places ulcerated, 1885 From a man, aged 54, who had suffered from bladder trouble all his life. Catheters were habitually employed. Two or three seconds after his bladder appeared to have been emptied, an ounce oi- two of purulent urine, with a little blood, was expelled violently through the catheter. He had no stone. His bladder was shown at the Pathological Society. See Transactiuns of the Patlwlugical Society, vol. xxxvi. (188.5), p. 283. Presented by D. Mackinder, M.D. 2412a. A Bladder and Ureter, in an early stage of tubercular disease. The bladder, which is inverted, presents numerous small papillas (grey tubercles) especially numerous near the orifices of the ureters. In other places the papilla; are ulcerated at their apices. There are several ulcers on the mucous membrane of the ureter, the inner surface of which is also rough and thickened. 1882 Presented by J. Macready, Esq. 24121). The Urinary Organs of a child, aged nine years, in an advanced stage of tubercular disease. The mucous membrane of the bladder is rough and thickened, it has lost its natural polish, and is thickly set with small circular ulcers. The ulceration has in many places been succeeded by caseous degeneration, and close to