SERIES XX. OR PEOTRTJSIOIfS, AND OTHER LISPllCEMEITS OF THE INTESTIML CAML AID OMENTUM. CONDITIONS WHICH PREDISPOSE TO HERNIA. 2081a. A Testicle and Cord in which the tunica vaginalis is patent as far as the internal abdominal ring. A small pouch of peritoneum descends at the internal abdominal ring, and ends behind the unclosed upper part of the tunica vaginalis, so that it really presents a very early stage of funicular hernia. The plica vascularis is very prominent. 1888 2082a. The sac of a large irreducible femoral hernia, for which the operation of radical cure was performed. It had existed for many years, and its walls are so thick and contain so much fibrous tissue, that when removed the sac did not collapse, but retained its present shape. 1892 The patient was an elderly woman. For further details see Female Surgical Register, vol. V. (1890), No. 1697. SACCULATION OF THE SAC. 20821b. The sac of a large umbilical hernia, removed by operation. The interior is divided up by bands of fibrous tissue and portions of adherent omentum into several sacculi, varying in size from that of a walnut to that of an orange. 1893 See Female Surgical Register, vol.ii. (1892), No. 80. HYDROCELE OF THE SAC. 2083a. The sac of a femoral hernin, removed in the course of an operation for radical cure. Owing to adhesions which had formed at the neck of the sac, the sac itself had become cut off from the general cavity of the peritoneum, and had subsequently become distended with fluid, thus forming a so-called " hydrocele of the sac." 1892 See Female Surgical Register, vol. iv. (1891), No. 441. HERNIAL SAC CLOSED BY OPERATION. 2089a. A portion of the abdominal wall, taken from the neighbourhood of the crural ring. The sac of a femoral hernia had been cut off and the peritoneum sutured eight days before death. The peritoneum over the crural ring is slightly puckered, but it is quite closed, and there are no traces of the hernial sac. 1889 The patient, a man, aged 03, admitted to the Hospital on account of a strangulated femoral hernia, died of perforation of the gat six feet above the ileo-ciecal valve. The external wound was soundly healed. See M<(le Surgical Register, vol. iii. (1887), No. 1775. 2095a. Right Inguinal Hernia. There is a long and narrow sac closely related to the constituents of the spermatic cord. A very long and slender strip of omentum is closely adlierent to the hinder wall of the sac. The history is unknown, but it seems quite impossible for the omentum to have been the cause of the sac. 1889