ABNOEMAL CONDITIONS OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 338 around the arcli of the aorta, and also passes up in its usual course with regard to the muscle supply of the larynx. All other structures in this part seem to be fairly normal. The aorta descends, gradually inclining to the middle line of the spine, and enters the abdomen upon the second lumbar vertebra. Of the branches of the abdominal aorta, the renal supply upon the right side is made up of four distinct large vessels. Upon the left there are three large branches given off from the cceliac axis. The aorta divides into the common iliacs upon the fourth lumbar vertebra. 1884 Dissected and presented by Keginald H. Combes and Cecil Cliristopherson. A more complete description and comments upon this case is to be found in the Hospital Reports for 1884, vol. xx., p. 269. 3537a. A Portion of the Abdominal Aorta, with the Right Kidney. The vessel gives off two large arteries to the kidney, of which the lower divides into two before it enters the organ. 1888 From a subject brought for dissection. Presented by C. S. VVoodd, Esq. CLASS II.-OF THE HEART. (a.)—In THE Valves of the Heaet. SUB-CLASS II.—ABNORMAL NUMBER OF THE VALVES. ACCESSORY AORTIC CUSP. 3585a. A Portion of the Heart and Aorta of a woman, aged sixty-two. The aortic valves are thickened, but competent. There are four cusps, the additional one being very small, but perfect, as it possesses a lunule and its own corpus Arantii. 1889 See Medical Post-Mortem Register, vol. xiv., p. 330. 35861d. a Similar Specimen, in which the cusps are of nearly equal size, each being somewhat smaller than usual. The lunule of the third cusp is fenestrated on one side. The coronary arteries are given off at the back of two contiguous cusps. 1889 Presented by W. H. B. Brook, M.D., of Lincoln. 3592a. The Heart of a child. It presents an abnormal fibrous band, measuring one inch and three eighths in length. The band commences at the superior vena cava, and passing behind the left auricle, terminates in front of the left auricular appendix. In the vena cava inferior and in the left auricle are depressions corresponding to the external attachments of the band. 1886 See also Transactions of the Pathological Society, vol. xxxvii., p. 147. Presented by C. B. Lockwood, Esq. CLASS v.—ARREST OF DEVELOPMENT. 3601a. The Heart of a child, aged three years. The right ventricle is greatly hypertro- phied, the left being of normal size. The tricuspid and mitral valves are natural. The pulmonary artery is given off normally. At its root the external measurement is barely a quarter of an inch. Internally, the valves are represented by a small cone projecting into the artery, with a perforation at its apex no larger than a