171 DISEASES OF THE THYROID GLAND. 2311a. Tongue and Larynx. The thyroid gland is hypertrophied. 1885 Sections are preserved in Series Iv., No. 357. 2311b. One-half of an enlarged Left Lobe of a Thyroid Gland, removed by operation. The cut surface shows that there has been a uniform increase of the gland tissues, so that the separate vesicles are now distinctly visible ; under the microscope, these are seen to be filled with homogeneous colloid material, causing some loss of the lining epithelium. 1891 Microscopical sections are preserved in Series Iv., No. 353a. See Female Surgical Register, vol, iv. (1890), No. 1640. 2312a. One-half of a tumour of the Thyroid Gland, which was removed by operation on account of increasing dyspncea. The cut surface shows that it is composed of a number of small cysts, varying in size from that of a hazel nut downwards : the cavity of the cysts is occupied partly by a fine papillated growth and partly by a jelly-like material of a pale pinkish-brown colour. The tumour, as a whole, is no doubt due to a general dilatation of the normal vesicles of the gland : it weighed two ounces when fresh. 1891 The patient was a young lady, aged 17 years : two years after the operation she was in good health. Presented by Alfred Willett, Esq. 2314a. Tongue, Larynx, Trachea, and Lungs of a child. A large cystic growth of about the size of half an orange extends along the left side of the larynx. Tracheotomy has been performed. The inner surface of the trachea is ulcerated. The lungs are studded with several small patches of consolidated tissue. 1885 From a child, aged two years, in whom the swelling had been noticed for twenty-two months. One week before death Morton's fluid was injected. The child died of broncho- pneumonia. During life the tumour extended backwards as far as the pharynx and spine, and it was closely adherent to the lower jaw and trachea. For further details see Female Surgical Register, vol. ii. (1884), No. 594. 2314b. Larynx and Trachea. The trachea is flattened from before backwards by the pressure of a large cystic tumour which was in connection with the isthmus of the thyi'oid. The cyst is lined with the remains of a partially organised blood-clot. Its walls are composed of encephaloid cancer, which is undergoing colloid degeneration. 1885 From a woman, aged 46, who died suddenly of asphyxia. In the few minutes preceding death, the tumour was said to have increased from the size of a walnut to that of an orange. After death it contained about two ounces of recent blood. For further details see The British Medical J<)Mr»«Z, vol ii. (1884), p. 20. A section is preserved. Series Iv., No. 356. Presented by J. S. Hunt, Esq. 2314c. The Trachea and Thyroid Gland, from a case of goitre. This specimen shows an hypertrophied condition of the whole gland, including the pyramid of Lalouette. The gland completely covers the anterior surface of the larynx, and extends upwards as far as the hyoid bone. The trachea is nearly surrounded by the growth, being compressed from side to side ; the lateral lobes almost meet behind. A section through the left lobe shows a great increase in the connective tissue of the gland, as well as numerous small cysts. During life the tumour extended as low as the posterior surface of the manubrium sterni. 1887 2314d.. The Trachea and Thyroid Gland, from a case of goitre. The right lobe of the thyroid is the seat of cystic disease. The sterno-thyroid muscle has been N