DISEASES AND INJURIES OF MUSCLES, 64 refilled with blood. On section, it is seen to consist of a white mass, in which is a cyst with a curiously reticular wall like that of an hyi^ertrophied and fasciculated bladder. The wall is stained with blood. On microscopical examination the growth was found to be a mixed-celled sarcoma with a hyaline matrix. In some parts both cells and matrix have been replaced by a structureless material which does not stain, and is probably the result of mucoid degeneration. 1889 Presented by A. A. Bowlby, Esq. 1176b. Muscles infested with Trichina Spiralis. IBS! The specimens were obtained from a man who had recently returned from America. All the muscles of the body contained an abundance of trichina, but none were noticed in the connective tissues. Sections of the muscles are preserved in Series Iv., No. 106. The details of the case are to be found in the Cohorn Ward Book, Alexander Birch, vol. i., p. 889. 1178a. A Finger on whose deep flexor tendon are two small gelatinous cysts the size of split peas, apparently connected with the synovial sheath, but not separable from the tendon itself. 1884 Presented by Stephen Paget, Esq. 1181a. A piece of the Distal Phalanx of the Index Finger to which the Flexor Tendon is attached. At the end of the tendon are a few muscular fibres. 1888 From a boy who was cleaning a ginger-beer bottle placed in a rotating machine. The loop of string which is seen in the specimen caught the end of his finger, leading to the evulsion of the tendon. The patient made a good recovery. Presented by A. iilatthey, Esq. 1185a. A Ring-Finger which was torn off through being caught in the cog-wlieels of a printing machine. The flexor tendons are torn out at their muscular attachments. 1883 1198a. Longitudinal section of a Tendo Achillis. The specimen was taken from the leg of a girl in whom a portion of the tendon had been resected more than two years previously on account of Talipes Calcaneus complicating infantile paralysis. The seat of this operation is marked by a considerable scar on the cutaneous surface, but the tendon itself has been entirely repaired. 1883 The operation did not materially benefit the patient, and the foot was amputated on account of its uselessness. Microscopical sections of the repaired tendon are preserved in Series Iv., No. 107. 1203a. Contraction of the Palmar Fascia, or Dupuytren's contraction. The central palmar fascia is greatly thickened opposite the cleft between the ring and little finger. The skin and thickened fascia are closely united, especially opposite the line which marks the front aspect of the metacarpo-phalangeal joint. A red rod has been placed beneath the cicatrised band, which goes to the radial side of the little finger. This band is most intimately connected with the digital nerve and artery. A blue rod has been placed beneath the digital vessels and nerves of the ulnar side of the ring-finger, and shows that they are separated by a considerable interval from the very prominent cicatrised band. 1886 See Transactions of tlw Pathological Society, vol. xxxvii., p. 556. 1203b. Contraction of Fascia of the Little Finger of the Left Hand ; a red rod has been placed beneath a band of thickened fascia, which caused a contraction of the finger. 1886 The specimen was obtained from a female, tet. 19. The deformity of the finger had appeared without any ostensible cause, and had gradually progressed. There was no evidence to show that it was congenital. Casts of both hands are preserved in Series Ivi., No. G8b. See Trausaetions of the Patliological Society, vol. xxxvii., p. 556. This and the preceding specimen were presented by C. B. Lockwood, Esq.