SERIES XVIII. DISEASES AID IIJTJEIES OE THE IITESTIIES. DUODENUM INFECTED WITH THE ANCHYLOSTOMA DUODENALE. 1956a. A Piece of Intestine infested with tlie Anchylostoma (Sclerosioma or Doch- mius) duodenale. A few of the worms still remain adherent to the intestinal wall, but for their better display the greater number have been placed upon a piece of talc beneath the preparation. In the recent condition the mucous membrane of the intestine was covered with mucus and granular lymph, in which the parasites were partially embedded. 1888 Obtained in exchange from tlie Hunterian Museum. AMYLOID DEGENERATION OF THE INTESTINE. 1952a. A portion of small intestine which has undergone amyloid degeneration. The amyloid substance is stained with iodine. 1888 1952a. A piece of the small intestine showing along the mesenteric border two pouches : the larger of the two is more or less globular, and measures about one inch in diameter : it protrudes between the layers of the mesentery, which is slightly thickened over the sac : the smaller pouch, situated six inches from the larger, is pyriform in shape, and measures three-quarters of an inch in its long diameter. The remaining portion of the intestine is normal in appearance, and shows no enlarge- ment from distension. 1892 From a woman, aged 56, who died from cerebral hfemorrhage : she also had emphysema and chronic interstitial nephritis. See Medical Post-Movtem Register, vol. xviii., p. 355. 1961a. A Caecum, around which an abscess formed during life. The tissues around the cfecum are matted together, and the vermiform appendix has been destroyed by the inflammation. A glass rod is passed through an opening into the gut, indicating the spot where the abscess burst. The patient died with abscess in the liver and spleen. 1882 ACUTE INFLAMMATION OF INTESTINE. 1962a. Portion of small intestine from a case of acute enteritis. The whole of the mucous membrane presents a roughened appearance, especially over the valvulse conniventes, from the deposit of small masses of lymph. The peritoneum is not affected, 1882 SIMPLE ULCERATION OF THE INTESTINE. 1963a, A Portion of the descending colon, which is greatly thinned as a result of over-distension. The mucous membrane contains numerous small irregular ulcers, which extend so deeply as almost to perforate the intestinal wall. The ulceration is