DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE 110 From a m.irried woman, aged 33 years. The swelling had been noticed for twelve months, and was increasing in size. It caused pain radiating up the side of tlie neck, but there was neither dyspnoea nor dysphagia. A microscopical preparation is preserved in Series lv.,No. 197. See Female Surgical Register, vol. ii. (1889), No. 396. 1785e. A Solid Tumour which was removed from the base of the tongue. The growth is oblong, measuring an inch in its long axis. It has a well-defined capsule, and its section is seen to be lobulated like a salivary gland. Microscopically it is a compound tubular gland, of which the acini are lined by cubical epithelium, so that it is almost identical with the preceding specimen, except that it is not undergoing cystic degeneration. 1889 From a woman, aged 27, who had noticed a painless swelling in her tongue for about two years before it was removed. A microscopical specimen is preserved in Series Iv., No. 199. See Female Surgical Register, vol. ii. (1889), No. lOio. LYMPHANGIOMA. 1785f. A Lymphangioma of the Tongue. The specimen has been cut in two, and is suspended so that the upper part shows the cut surface, while the lower shows the uneven surface of the side of the tongue, from which situation it was removed. When fresh, this surface showed a number of minute semi-transparent cysts, which contained clear fluid, and were formed of dilated lymphatic spaces. 1890 A microscopical section showing these spaces is preserved in Series Iv., No. 204. See Male Sitrgical Register, vol. i. (1889), No. 3569. 1785gr- A Portion of the Left Half of a Tongue. In the substance of the muscular tissue is a tumour wbich is much firmer than the surrounding structures. On microscopical examination this was found to be a tubulo-glandular adenoma. There is no ulceration of the mucous membrane. 1891 From a lady, aged 40, who had noticed the tumour for about twelve months. Microscopical sections are preserved in Series Iv., No. 198. Presented by Sir William Savory, Bart., F.R.S. 1785g"-i. A Lymphangioma of the Tongue removed by operation. Tlie part most affected is an oval patch measuring one inch in its long diameter, and is covered by a number of small cysts, which, Avhen fresh, were white and translucent and contained a clear fluid. Microscopical examination showed that these are formed by dilatation of the lymphatic spaces. 1892 The patient was a girl, aged 14, who had noticed the growth for two years. See Female Surgical Register, vol. iv. (1892), No. 563. A drawing of the tongue, before operation, is preserved in Series Ivii., No. 321, and microscopical sections in Series Iv., No. 204a. 1785g'-2. A Small Lymphangioma of the Tongue removed by operation. On the right side of the specimen are a number of small processes ; when fresh, these were seen to be vesicles filled with a clear fluid. 1892 The patient was a boy, aged five, who had previously undergone an operation for the removal of a similar growth. Owing probably to an incomplete removal, it recurred till it reached the size seen, and was then freely removed by the knife. A drawing of the tumour before the first operation is preserved in Series Ivii., No. 319. See Male Surgical Register, vol. i. (1890), No. 725. SARCOMA OF THE TONGUE. 1786a. A Portion of a Tongue which was removed on account of a sarcomatous growth. The section exhibits a soft white tumour, oval in shape, of about the size of a fives-ball, and measuring one and a half incbes in length by an inch in breadth. It is situated immediately beneath the mucous membrane of the middle third of the left side of the tongue. It is circumscribed, and at one part exhibits traces of a