DISEASES OF BONES. 9 result of periostitis of very long duration. There are also bony outgrowths round the margins of the condyles, both outside and inside the knee-joint; this was firmly ankylosed by fibrous adhesions. 1893 (In case F.) From a woman, aged 50. When 10 years of age she received a severe injury to her femur, resulting in the formation of sinuses whicli never healed. Twenty-tliree years later she underwent an operation, and some sequestra were removed. Ou admission to the hospital, these sinuses were still unclosed. An extensive operation for the removal of dead bone was performed, but she developed septicEemia and died. See Female Surgical Register, vol. v. (1891), No. 1887. 141a. Sections of the Lower End of a Femur, with a small carious cavity immediately beneath the articular cartilage. 1881 From a child who died with suppuration in the knee-joint, and diffuse periostitis of the femur. The inflammation in the knee-joint was supposed to have been caused by the disease in the epiphysis. Presented by W. Morrant Baker, Esq. 152a. The Lower Jaw of a child which has undergone Acute Necrosis of the central portion. On each side the section has been made through healthy bone. As a result of the necrosis the teeth have dropped out. 1884 For details of the case see Lawrence Ward Book for February, 1884, under the name Amelia Simmonds. 159a. The entire diaphysis of the Ulna of a child, which separated as the result of Acute Periostitis. The shaft of the bone was reformed. 1882 164a. Portions of the Left Fourth Rib, which were exfoliated six months after a slight injury. The larger of the necrosed portions of the rib measures about three and a half inches in length, and is very jagged at either end ; whilst the smaller piece is only half an inch in length. 1887 From a delicate girl, aged 13. See Female Surgical Register, vol. i. (1887), No. 329. 167a. The Lower Two-Thirds of the Left Femur, which has undergone Central Necrosis. The bone is much thickened, especially at its upper and posterior portion, by a deposit of new osseous material derived from the periosteum ; whilst the lower portion of the bone is sclerosed so that the medullary canal is filled up with dense bone. In the upper part of the specimen the shaft has imdergone lamellar necrosis. The dead bone has not exfoliated, but is in many places ensheathed by new bone derived from the endosteum and periosteum. 1886 The patient, a boy, aged 17, had experienced shooting pains in his left hip for seven months previous to his admission to the Hospital. Shortly after he first felt the pain, he noticed a fulness about the hip, accompanied by tenderness, heat, and redness. He kept his bed for three months. On admission, a large tense swelling was found at the upper and inner part of the thigh, and the knee-joint was swollen and tender. Three-quarters of a pint of pus flowed from an incision made into the swelling. The knee-joint was afterwards drained, but amputa- tion through the middle third of the thigh was ultimately performed. At the time of the amputation the medullary canal contained pus in its upper portion. The pus had burrowed behind the semi-inembranosus muscle, and had made its way into the knee-joint, but the epiphysis remained healthy. See Male Surgical Register, vol. v. (1885), No. 2840. Algo Transactions of tlie Pathological Society, vol. xxxvii., p. 372. 173a. A Section through an Os Calcis which has undergone Necrosis. The periosteum is almost entirely stripped off the bone, which is dead. The cartilage on the posterior articulation of the astragalus has completely disappeared, whilst that covering the sustentaculum tali is eroded and can readily be stripped off the bone. 1889