185 THEIR PELVES, AND THE URETERS. See 3Iale Surgical Register, vol. i. (1886), No. 208. surrounding tissues are matted together by inflammation. About an inch and a half above the bladder the ureter becomes greatly narrowed, so that its calibre before the tube was laid open barely admitted a small probe. Tiie cause of the stricture is not evident. 1882 2372c. Portions of Kidney, removed by the operation of lumbar nephrectomy. Very little of the glandular substance is to be seen, the specimen consisting chiefly of the cortical substance dilated into cysts of irregular size and shape. 1883 From a boy, aged 17 years, on whom the oj)eration of nephrotomy had been performed one year and nine months previously on account of continued pain in the left loin, associated with pus in the urine. For more than a year after this he was much relieved from his previous symptoms, but for some months previous to the removal of the kidney had suffered from a more profuse discharge from the nephrotomy wound and steadily increasing hectic. The kidney was rather closely adherent to the surrounding structures. The patient made a good recovery. Microscopical examination revealed dilatation of the tubules, and an increase of the intertubular connective tissue. See Kentuti Ward BouJ/, vol. vii., p. 204 ; HarJey Ward Booh, vol. ix., p. 8 ; and paper, by Mr. Morrant Baker, in the Transactions of the Internat ional Medical Congress for 1881, vol. ii., p. 262. 2372d.. A Kidney, removed by the operation of nephrectomy for disorganisation of its substance, as a result of a large branched renal calculus which occupied the pelvis. The kidney is seen to be little more than a series of thin-walled cysts. The stone consisted chiefly of phosphates. 1886 From a woman, aged 41, who had noticed a swelling in the right flank for seven months. The urine was thick and creamy when passed, but there had never been any severe pain, nor was there hfematuria. After removal the patient made a good recovery. The calculus is pre- served in Series lii.. No. 52d. See Female Surgical Register, vol. iii. (1885), No. 510, and St. Bartholomew's IlosjHtal Reports, vol. xxi., p. 121. 2372e. A Kidney, removed by the operation of nephrectomy, on account of the injury which it had sustained from the presence of a calculus. The organ is slightly enlarged, its pelvis is distended, and it is covered with a layer of flocculent lymph. Tlie medullary portion has undergone very considerable absorption, the pyramids being converted into abscess cavities ; this is more especially the case at the upper border of the kidney. The capsule is partially adherent. The ureter, dilated at the upper part, is constricted and thickened below. 1886 From a patient, aged 31, who had sufEered from symptoms of renal calculus for six years. During the latter part of this period she had profuse pyelitis with high temperature. After removal of the kidney she made a good recovery. Dr. Ord gives the following description of the stone which the kidney contained : " The calculus is somewhat heart-shaped. It weighs twelve grains. Its colour is yellowish brown in parts, and dark grey in others. The surface is tuberculated, and under a low magnifying power has very much the appearances presented by brown sugar, the semi-transparent nodules of which are covered in some parts by a deposit resembling a layer of the same crystals wetted. The calculus consisted of oxalate of lime, of phosphates, and of uric acid, with possibly a small intermixture of carbonate of lime." Presented by Thomas Smith, Esq. 2372f. A Kidney, which was removed by the operation of nephrectomy. The organ is not enlarged, nor is its capsule adherent, but its surface is rough and tuberculated. On section it is seen that the boundary layer of the medulla has been absorbed as the result of the irritation of a calculus. Tliis absorption has occurred in several places ; one at the upper border of the kidney contains a tri-radiate calculus, whilst the other cavities are situated along the outer border of the gland. A chemical examination of the calculus, made by Dr. Lapraik, showed it to consist of a mixture of phosphate and oxalate of lime in about equal proportions. 1887