DISEASES OF BONES. 25 tissue in its whole extent, and it is just entering upon the lower epiphysis at the external condyle ; it is subperiosteal in origin. Microscopically, it is a sarcoma, the fibrous stroma containing numerous small round and oval connective tissue cells. The anterior surface of the inferior portion of the shaft of the bone carries a large craggy exostosis, measuring three and a half inches in length by an inch in breadth at its broadest part. 1888 From a boy, aged 17, whose knee became hot and painful three months before amputation was performed. There was no history of injury. The leg presented an abruptly defined enlargement of the lower end of the femur, which was warmer than the surrounding tissues, and which gave a doubtful feeling of fluctuation at one spot on its outer side. After amputation of the limb the patient made an excellent recovery. See Male Surgical Register, vol. iii. (1887), No. 1310. 482a. The Left Half of the Inferior Maxilla, greatly expanded by tlie growth of a calcifying Fibro-Sarcoma, which, originating from the endosteum, expanded the bone in all its diameters to a considerable extent. The surface of the section is fibrous, with a number of small granular points where the lime salts have been deposited. 1886 From a lady, aged .S5, in whom the tumour had been growing for six years. Microscopic examination showed that it chiefly consisted of fibrous tissue, in the meshes of which were sarcomatous cells. The growth was in parts undergoing calcification. Presented by Sir William Savory, Bart., F.R.S. 510a. A Section of the Left Humerus, removed after death from a woman, aged forty-eight. The humerus is the seat of a secondary deposit of scirrhous carci- noma, which involves its middle third. As a result of the scirrhous infiltration, a fracture occurred through the middle of the shaft about twelve months before death. Firm fibrous union, however, has taken place along the line marked out in the specimen by black bristles, and although the position is very bad, yet a fairly useful arm resulted. 1888 From a woman who had for eight years been the subject of a scirrhous cancer of the right breast. She had always declined operative interference, and the axillary glands became affected, so that at the time of her death the whole axilla and the breast formed a large ulcerating mass. The patient was bedridden during the last eighteen months of her life, and whilst in this condition a swelling commenced at the centre of the left humerus, and the bone broke spontaneously. The arm was never painful, however, and did not even give rise to any discomfort. Two months after the fracture firm union had taken place, and the patient was able to use the arm as well as her right. No other long bone was in any way bent or softened. During life she had symptoms of secondary deposits in the liver and brain, but no post-mortem examination of these organs was made. Presented by E. Gr. Colville, Esq. COLLOID CARCINOMA OF STERNUM. 51 OId. The Right Half of the Upper End of a Sternum from which there grows a semi-globular tumour, measuring nearly four inches in diameter ; the cut surface shows that the whole thickness of the bone is uniformly involved ; to the naked eye it consists of bands of fibrous tissue, interspersed with masses of colloid material. It projects mostly in an outward direction, but there is slight bulging of the inner surface of the bone ; the skin is stretched and excoriated at one spot. It is probably secondary in origin, but the primary disease was not determined, 1893 Microscopical sections are preserved in Series Iv., No. 69a. 517a. Vertebrte infiltrated with a small round-celled Sarcoma. 1884 A section is preserved, Series Iv., No. 33. For details of the case see Mary Ward Boole for 1884, under the name M. A. Clark, and a paper by Dr. H. L. Jones, in the St. Bartholomew's Honpital Reports ifor 1884, vol. xx., p. 225.