SERIES III. mUEIES OP BOIES (Practures), 747a. The Patella and Lower End of the Femur. The patella has sustained a comnainuted fracture, whilst the femur has been fractured transversely and longitu- dinally in such a manner as to give rise to a T-shaped fracture extending into the knee-joint. 1886 From a woman, aged 64, who was admitted with such numerous and severe injuries as the result of a fall from a third-floor window that she died on the following day. See Female Surgieal Register, vol. i. (1886), No. 813. 747b. The Patella and Lower End of the Femur of the Right Side. The patella has sustained a compound comminuted fracture, while the femur is also comminuted near its lower extremity. The patella appears to have been crushed against the outer condyle of the femur. The limb was amputated at tiie seat of fracture. 1890 From a man who attempted suicide by jumping out of a window. See Male Surgical Regidcr, vol. iii. (1889), No. 2930. 747c. The Patella and Lower End of the Femur of the Left Side, from the same case as the preceding specimen. In this case the patella is but slightly injured on its outer side, while the femur has sustained a T-shaped fracture into the knee- joint. The patella appears to have been driven like a wedge between the condyles, but to have escaped fracture itself. 1890 755a. Portions of the Bones of the Leg of a woman, aged forty, showing the results of a compound fracture of the lower end of the Femur implicating the Knee-joint. The fracture has been oblique, and the lower end of the upper frag- ment has perforated the skin over the front of the articulation. The bone in this situation is sclerosed, and the medullary canal sealed by compact osseous tissue. The lower end of the femur is somewhat tilted backwards, and no union has taken place between the fractured extremities. A considerable amount of the cartilage has been removed from the bones entering into the articulations, the joint itself being partially ankylosed. 1882 The patient was admitted into Stanley Ward on October 2nd, 1880, suffering from a compound fracture of the femur into the knee-joint. An attempt was made to save the limb, but the femur subsequently protruded, and a portion of the upper fragment was sawn off on February 23rd, 1881. The wound healed, and the patient was discharged. In the following October she fell, and the bone again protruded. Amputation was performed October 26th, 1881. See Stanley Ward BooJt, vol. viii., p. 216. INCOMPLETE SEPARATION OF THE LOWER RADIAL EPIPHYSIS. 758a. A Section of the Lower End of the Radius of a child. As a result of injury, the epiphysis has been incompletely separated from the bone. This separa- tion is complete along the radial border, where a bristle has been passed between the bone and the cartilage, but towards the ulnar border the line of injury has run obliquely, and consequently the bone has been fractured above the epiphysis. 1887 Fom a girl, aged three years, who fell from a height of thirty feet on to the pavement She died two days after the injury. See Female Surgical Register, vol. v. (1885), No. 1167.