SERIES XL. DISEASES A.M mURIES OF THE TJRETHM AlfD PEIIS. STRICTURE. 2872a. A portion of the Bladder and Urethra, laid open from behind. The mucous membrane of the bladder and urethra is thickened in its whole extent, whilst the muscular coat of the bladder is much hypertrophied. The lumen of the urethra is narrowed by a long stricture situated in its membranous portion, and extending forwards into the bulbous, and backwards into the prostatic portions of the tube. Immediately behind the stricture the upper wall of the urethra is irregularly ulcera- ted. The ulcers form two deep depressions lying on the long axis of the canal, whose sides and anterior borders are covered with a white deposit of phosphates. No urinary abscess has yet been formed. 1889 From a man, aged 68, who was admitted to the Hospital with retention of urine. Fifty years previously he had an attack of gonorrhoea, and he had suffered from stricture for five years. The calvaria, containing a cyst of the arachnoid, is preserved in Series xxx., No. 2449a. See Male Surgical Register, vol. ii. (1888), No. 2996. 2872b. A Portion of the Bladder and Urethra, showing the results of a long- standing stricture. The urethra is much dilated behind the seat of constriction which extends from the prostatic urethra, through the membranous, into the bulbous portion. The raucous membrane of the prostatic urethra is torn in various directions by false passages, through the largest of which a black bristle has been passed. The bladder is tliickened by hypertrophy of its muscular coat. 1889 From a man, aged 46, who had long suffered from stricture of the urethra. Six months before his death, Wheelhouse's operation of external urethrotomy was successfully performed. The patient returned to the Hospital with suppression of urine and died. The right kidney is preserved in Series xxviii., No. 2369b. See 31ale Surgical Register, vol. iv. (1888), No. 4012*, 2872c. A Portion of the Bladder and Urethra. The mucous membrane of the bladder is thickened and corrugated, while its muscular wall is greatly hypertrophied. The lumen of the urethra is almost obliterated at the junction of the membranous with the bulbous portion by a stricture which extends for about half an inch. Behind the stricture the urethra is greatly dilated, and its mucous membrane is ulcerated and ploughed up in all directions. A glass rod has been placed in the opening of an urinary abscess which is situated in the upper wall of the urethra, close to the commencement of the bulb ; this abscess communicated by a fistulous track with the exterior. Posteriorly, in the prostatic portion of the urethra, are openings of several other urinary abscesses. 1889 From a man, aged 57, who had suffered for some years from a stricture of the urethra. See Male Surgical Register, vol. ii. (1888), No. 3785. 2874a. Part of a Bladder and a Penis, divided along its dorsum. The mucous surface of the membranous urethra is ragged and inflamed. Around the prostatic and