196 DISEASES AND INJURIES OP THE URINARY BLADDER. upper and back of the bladder, where a small perforation has taken place into the peritoneal cavity. Through the perforation a glass rod lias been passed. 1888 From a man, aged 60, who had several attacks of hrematuria during the years 1883 and 1884. From Christmas, 1885, until his death, in August, 1886, the hematuria was constant but painless. At the post-mortem examination general peritonitis was found. There were no secondary growths or enlarged glands. See Transactions of the Pathological Society, vol. xxxviii., p. 181. Presented by W. Bruce-Clarke, Esq. 242613. The Bladder and Left Kidney, showing an epithelioma of the bladder leading to occlusion of the ureter. The bladder is ulcerated over the whole extent of the trigone, and presents, in this region, a slightly raised epitheliomatous appearance. The left ureter is completely blocked, for about half an inch, by the extension of the growth into it, and as a result of this occlusion it is greatly distended, and was filled with thick creamy pus. The kidney is converted into a large sacculated cyst, the renal substance being completely absorbed. Microscopical examination of the ulcerated portion of the bladder shows that it is infiltrated by a typical epithelioma, 1888 From a man, aged 44, who had suffered for eighteen months from hsematuria and difficulty in passing water. See Male Surgical Register, vol. iii. (1886), No. 3136. 2433a. The Urinary Organs of a patient who had numerous calculi. The left kidney contains a branched phosphatic calculus in its pelvis. The bladder is pouched, a glass rod being passed through the aperture of communication. The portion which is in direct connection with the urethra contains a uric acid calculus, whilst the pouch contains two smaller stones of the same nature. The prostatic urethra is blocked by a long round calculus, which appears to be moulded to its shape, con- sisting chiefly of urates and phosphates. 1885 M., set. 24. Difficulty in passing water for five years ; catheter first passed two years since ; admitted with retention of urine ; a No. 7 silver catheter was passed. Death from anfemia. See Surgical Register, vol. iv. (1884), No. 1010. 2439a. A Piece of Solder, removed from the bladder by the operation of median perineal urethrotomy. 1888 From a watchmaker, aged 47, who had been cut for stone twenty-two years previously. He always suffered pain before passing water, which he relieved by passing a No. 10 catheter. He passed a piece of solder along his urethra on one occasion when he had no catheter, but in withdrawing it the stick broke, and a part passed into his bladder. See Male Surgical Register, vol. iv. (1888), No. 898. 2439b. A Catheter, removed from the bladder. 1890 The patient was a prisoner in Newgate. Presented by Luther Holden, Esq. 2440a. A Bladder, exhibiting an Intra-peritoneal Rupture, situated at its upper and back part. The rupture is longitudinal in direction, and extends through the whole thickness of the viscus ; a blue glass rod has been placed in it. The organ is greatly contracted. 1887 From a boy, aged 12, who was run over by a van. On admission he was found to have a fractured pelvis, he was collapsed, and was passing blood by his rectum and urethra. The patient gradually developed signs of peritonitis, and died four days after the injur}'. At the autopsy no urine was found in the peritoneum, although it must have escaped freely from the bladder. See Male Surgical Register, vol. iii. (1886), No. 407. 2440b. A Traumatic Eupture of the Bladder. A long rent extends through the whole length and thickness of the organ, and two smaller irregular rents, into which