SERIES V. DISEASES AID DEFOEIITIES OE THE SPUE. 1089a. Vertebras from a case of Chronic Osteo-Arthritis. The two vertebrre are united by processes of new bone which have interlocked upon their left lateral aspect. 1885 (In Case H.) See Female Surgical Register, vol. iv. (1884), No. 2319. 1089b. A Spinal Column exhibiting a slight amount of lateral curvature, with some rarefying osteitis and lipping of the lower dorsal and lumbar vertebras. The left transverse process of the third lumbar vertebra is prolonged downwards, and articulates by a broad plate of bone with the transverse process of the fourth vertebra. The left transverse process of the fourth lumbar vertebra is enlarged and roughened. 1888 (In Case C.) From a skeleton which was purchased. SACRO-ILIAC DISEASE. 1090a. A Pelvis with the last two Lumbar Vertebrse, from a case of advanced sacro- iliac disease. The right iliac bone is lighter and more porous than the left, and its muscular ridges are less well marked. The auricular surface is completely devoid of cartilage, and is honey-combed by a process of carious inflammation to such an extent tliat a large circular aperture has been formed through its centre. The rough surface for the sacro-iliac ligaments has undergone a similar absorption, though to a less extent. The caries extends forwards along the inner and middle lips of the crest of the ilium for nearly two-thirds of its extent, and downwards as far as the brim of the true pelvis. In the sacrum the whole of the right ala and lateral mass has undergone absorp- tion, and the caries has extended across the anterior surfaces of the first and second sacral vertebrae as far as the sacral foramina of the left side. As a result of the inflammatory changes, spicules of new bone connect the fifth lumbar vertebra with the first piece of the sacrum on the right side, and the terminal piece of the sacrum with the coccyx. Posteriorly the caries has caused destruction of the spine of the first sacral vertebra. The left sacro-iliac synchondrosis appears to be normal, and the symphysis pubis is healthy. 1887 (In Case H.) From a man. aged 19, a bricklayer. Nineteen months before his death he had an attack of " rheumatism " in his right hip, and a month later he first felt pain in his sacrum. On admis- sion to the Hospital a year later, an abscess had formed over the right buttock, and great pain was experienced on pressing the ilia together. After opening the abscess, bare bone could be felt over the posterior part of the ilium, and it was subsequently ascertained that the whole of the right side of the sacrum was carious. About two months before the death of the patient symptoms of amyloid degeneration were observed in various organs. See Male Sm-gical Register, vol., ill, (1886), No. 2433.