268 DISEASES OF THE MAMMARY GLAND. From a woman, aged 54, who received a blow upon the left breast seven years previously. A swelling appeared shortly after the injury, but it was said to have disappeared under treat- ment. The present swelling had been observed for four months previous to the operation, and the patient had been losing flesh for two months. After the removal of the tumour she made a good recovery. Obtained in exchange from the Museum of the Royal Free Hospital. CARCINOMA. 3165a. Section through a Mammary Gland and the suiTounding fat, in which a large mass of scirrhous cancer is embedded. The tissue presents a hard white basis, intersected by bands like fibres, which are best seen at the periphery of the growth. The nipple is much retracted. 1888 From a woman, aged 52, whose nipple became retracted about eight months before the breast was removed ; shortly after the retraction of the nipple she noticed a lump in her breast. See Female Surgical Register, vol. iii. (1888), No. 657. 3165b. A Breast, showing a scirrhus growing coincidently with a fibro-adenoma. The upper part of the tumour presents the appearance of a normal scirrhous carci- noma, whilst the lower part has the nodular shape of an adenoma. Microscopically, the growth is papillomatous in structure, the papillae being composed of a fibrous stroma containing oval, round, and branched connective-tissue corpuscles. The surface of each papilla is covered with a layer of spherical or short columnar epithe- hum. Epithelial cells enclosing cavities and simulating glandular tissue are also embedded in the stroma. 1889 From a woman, aged 48, who had knocked lier breast four years before it was removed. On admission she had a tumour, about the size of a walnut, situated in the right mammary gland. It was firm and lobulated, feeling like an indurated piece of breast tissue, or a fibro- adenoma. The skin was not adherent, nor was the nipple retracted. The patient made a good recovery. See Female Surgical Register, vol. v. (1888), No. 2638. 3165c. A portion of a Breast, infiltrated with a scirrhous carcinoma. The nipple is retracted, and at one point in the substance of the gland the carcinoma appears to be undergoing degeneration. 1889 From a woman, aged 45 years, in whom the cancer had been growing for eighteen months. Eczema of the nipple had existed for three months before she first noticed the tumour. A portion of an axillary lymphatic gland is preserved in Series xxiv., No. 2287a. See Female Surgical Register, vol. ii. (1888), No. 1622. 3170a. A Section through a Scirrhous Carcinoma of the Breast, which has " broken down " and suppurated. The nipple is retracted, and is connected directly with a firm fibrous mass in the deeper part of the gland. In the centre of this is a cavity with ragged and uneven walls. There is a second smaller cavity of a similar kind near the skin. Both cavities contained pus. 1890 From a woman, aged 45. She had noticed the growth for three months. The axillary glands were not affected. See Female Surgical Register, vol. i. (1889), No. 87. 3172a. An Ulcerated Carcinoma of the Male Mammary Gland. There is a secondary deposit in the skin above the ulcer, and at the upper part of the specimen is an enlarged axillary gland, which was found, on microscopical examination, to be carcinomatous. Only the centre of the primary growth is now ulcerated, and it is surrounded by healing scar-tissue. 1890 From a man, aged 41. Twelve months before the operation a pimple formed on the nipple, which ulcerated, and extended into the surrounding skin. He was first seen one month before operation, during which time he was treated with iodide of potassium, with the result that, although there was no evidence of syphilis, the ulcer considerably diminished by healing from tlic edges. The axillary glands, which were already aSected, ealarged, and became much