85 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF ARTERIES. From a man, aged 37, who died of ulcerative endocarditis. Six weeks before his death he complained of severe pain at the umbilicus, where there was a tender spot. At the post-mortem examination firm adherent clots were found in the right brachial and in both femoral arteries. See Transactions of the Pathological Society, vol. xli., p. 53. Presented by Norman Moore, M.D. 1538a. The Right Common and External Iliac, with a portion of the femoral arteries and their respective veins. The common iliac artery has been tied with silk just above its bifurcation, and its proximal portion is filled with clot for half an inch above the upper ligature. The external iliac is dilated in its upper third, whilst its lower two-thirds form a large fusiform aneurysm filled with a firm clot, a large part of which is laminated. The internal iliac is closed by clot for an inch below the ligature. The common and superficial femoral with the profunda femoris are filled with dark adherent clot. No vein appears to have been injured during the operation. The external iliac vein is normal ; the common femoral vein and its tributaries are also filled with clot, the veins being compressed by the aneurysm beneath Poupart's ligament. 1887 The patient was a discharged soldier, aged 52, who had an inguinal aneurysm. He had served in India, and had had syphilis ; for two years he was aware that something had been wrong with his groin, and for two or three months the right lower limb had been much swollen. He had an aneurysm reaching from below Poupart's ligament up to a point midway between the crural arch and the umbilicus ; there was a strong pulsation, but no bruit ; in other respects he seemed a healthy man. The artery was tied above the aneurysm with a carbolised kangaroo tendon, and the pulsation was at once arrested ; next day the pulsation had returned in full force. The artery was again exposed ; the ligature was found in situ, with no appear- ance of loosening, but the point of an aueurysm-needle could be inserted between the vessel and the ligature. It was therefore removed, and two carbolised silk ligatures were placed on the artery, one above and one below the site of the first ligature ; pulsation ceased at once. In forty-eight hours the pulsation returned, and continued until the day before death. The limb became gangrenous, amputation was performed, but the patient died three days after- wards, and twelve days from the date of the first operation. See Male Surgical Register, vol. ii. (1885), No. 3175, and Transactions of Clinical Society, vol. XX., p. 29. 1538b. An Aneurysm of the Gluteal Artery. The internal iliac with part of the common iliac artery is also preserved, and has been laid open. The walls of these vessels are healthy. The sac of the aneurysm contains a recent blood-clot, formed by the coagulation of the contents after death. There is little or no lamination. About the last inch of the gluteal artery is occupied by a firm fibrinous clot, probably post-mortem in character ; neither in it nor in the sac itself could any calcareous material be detected. The artery appears to terminate in the sac, there being no pervious vessel beyond it. A flat fibrous cord which runs down the back of the specimen may possibly be the continuation of the gluteal artery, obliterated by the pressure of the aneurysm. 1890 From a woman, aged 25, who died of ulcerative endocarditis ; the aneurysm had been noticed for two months previous to her admission. At the post-mortem examination the aortic valves were found to be extensively diseased, and covered by a large mass of calcareous material. The aorta and other vessels were healthy. Numerous old infarcts were found in the spleen and kidneys. The heart is preserved in Series vii., No. I299d ; the spleen in Series xxv.. No. 2295b ; and a kidney in Series xxviii., No. 2331a. See Female Surgical Register, vol. i. (1889), No. 939. 1539a. The Eight Common and External Iliac, with a portion of the Femoral Artery, showing a sacculated aneurysmal dilatation of the external iliac, with a fusiform aneurysm of the common femoral. The common iliac artery is atheroma- tous, and the upper inch and a half of the external iliac is healthy, but its lower part is dilated into a large aneurysmal sac, into which the upper part of the vessel opens by an obhque aperture, through which a piece of black catheter has been passed. The sac-wall, which is lined with clot, consists of the vessel-walls and of