3 DISEASES OP BONES. 34a. Portions of a Tibia and Fibula from a case of Diffuse Periostitis. The periosteum has entirely disappeared over a great part of the shaft of the tibia, leaving the subjacent bone rough, bare, and discoloured. A small portion of the lower end of the fibula is in a similar condition. 1882 34b. The Astragalus and the lower ends of the Tibia and Fibula from the same case. The tibial epijohysis had been partially separated from the shaft previous to amputation being performed, its cancellous tissue is in a state of acute inflamma- tion. A glass rod has been passed along a narrow channel, which leads from the ankle-joint into the space between the tibia and fibula. The articular cartilage covering the bones forming the ankle-joint has been entirely destroyed and the bony surfaces are in a carious condition. 1882 39a. The Eight Femur of a Child. The bone has been sawn across transversely, and shows a very unusual appearance, resulting from Acute Periostitis. Imme- diately above the condyles, and extending up the shaft for more than its lower half, the outline of the bone is much enlarged; the section shows the original shaft of the bone lying in the centre of a cavity with bony walls, the space between the centre of the shaft and the inner edge of the wall of this cavity measuring five- eighths of an inch ; extending across this space are a few irregular fibrous bands : it contained pus when opened. xV red glass rod has been placed in a small opening on the outer side of the bone, corresponding to an incision which was made seventeen days before death. The peculiar appearance is, without doubt, due to the fact that the periosteum has first been separated off the shaft by acute periostitis, the intervening space being filled with pus, and that the periosteum itself has subsequently become ossified. A somewhat similar condition in an earlier state is seen in the next specimen, which was obtained from the opposite femur of the same child. 1891 The patient was an infant, aged one year, admitted into the Metropolitan Hospital on Novem- ber 18th, 1890. The history given was that for a few days before admission the legs and thighs had been swollen and the child seemed ill; he had never been strong or healthy; he had general bronchitis. On November 25th he was in a good deal of pain and restless ; temperature 100° P. There was no evidence of rickets, and the chest, head, and upper limbs were well formed. The legs were swollen and oedematous. The lower part of each thigh was greatly swollen, especially the right; there was no effusion into the joints. Fluctuation was detected on the outer side of the right femur, and pus was evacuated by an incision. The legs were put up in splints, and gave but little further trouble. The bronchitis increased, was complicated by laryngitis, and on December 11th the child died. 39b. The Lower Half of a Left Femur (from the same case as the preceding specimen), which has been divided longitudinally, and shows separation and ossification of the periosteum. The intervening space is occupied by soft fibrous tissue, but did not contain blood or pus. 1891 Drawings of this and of the preceding specimen, when fresh, are contained in Series Ivii., No. 19. They were both presented by Anthony A. Bowlby, Esq. 40a. The Tibia, Astragalus, and Os Calcis, with a portion of the Fibula of the right side, removed by operation on account of long-standing Osteitis and Periostitis. The bones have been sawn through longitudinally, and show considerable thickening and deposition of new bone throughout the whole shaft of the Tibia, with almost complete obliteration of the medullary cavity. The inflammation, which originated in the Tibia, has spread to the neighbouring bones, causing complete obliteration of the ankle and astragalo-calcaneal joints, with firm bony ankylosis of these bones to each other and to the Tibia. The Fibula, which has also been sawn through longitudinally, is firmly ankylosed to the Tibia and Astragalus, but its medullary cavity has not been encroached upon by the thickening of the bone. The outer B 2