SERIES XVI. DISEASES or THE PEEITOIETJl, OlEITTJl, AID lESEUTEEY. 1883a. A Mass of Caseous Material found in the peritoneal cavity, and resulting from a previous localised peritonitis, probably of a tubercular origin. 1892 The patient was a man, aged 30, who died from intestinal obstruction caused by old adhesions between the coils of the ileum : a similar caseating nodule was found in the liver. The constricted portion of intestine is preserved in Series xviii., No. 2017a. See also Male Surgical Register, vol. ii. (1889), No. 2028, and Surgical Post-Mortem Register, 1889, p. 98. 1885a. A Small Calcified Mass developed in the mesentery of the small intestine. It did not give rise to any symptoms during life. 1888 SARCOMA OF THE OMENTUM. 1886b. A Piece of the Great Omentum, attached at its upper border to part of the great curvature of the stomach. It is greatly thickened, and has been rendered nodular by infiltration with oval-celled sarcomatous tissue. The primary growth occurred in the testicle, which was removed four months before the death of the patient. 1889 From a man, aged 21, in whom the sarcoma of the peritoneum was secondary to sarcoma of the testis. The intestines were not distended, but their mesenteric and peritoneal attach- ments were closely studded with thousands of small nodules, varying in size from a pin's head to a hazel-nut. The appendices epiploicfe were also greatly enlarged, and the parietal layer of the peritoneum over the greater part of its extent was similarly affected. The left inguinal canal was filled with new growth, which protruded into the peritoneal cavity. All the viscera were healthy. The lymphatic glands in the abdomen were not enlarged. The testis is preserved in Series xxxvi., No. 2797g. See Male Surgical Register, vol. iv. (1889), No. 3264. 1886c. A Portion of the under surface of the Diaphragm with part of the liver. The parietal layer of the peritoneum is studded with nodules of sarcoma-tissue, which do not penetrate into the gland. 1889 From the same case as the preceding. MULTIPLE SECONDARY CARCINOMA OF THE PERITONEUM. 1886d. A Diaphragm to which portions of some of the lower ribs are still attached : the under surface is covered with great regularity by a number of rounded or nodulated sessile growths, varying in size from that of a pea to that of a broad bean : some few are slightly pedunculated. Other parts of the peritoneum were affected, but to a less extent ; there were a lew nodules on the falciform ligament