DISEASES AND INJURIES OP THE BRAIN AND ITS MEMBRANES. 203 2483b. The Left Cerebral Hemisphere of a Microcephalic Brain. The whole brain only weighed twenty-eight and a half ounces, the left hemisphere weighing twelve and a half ounces, and the right twelve and a quarter ounces. The dura mater was thickened and adherent to the skull in several places. The pia mater was adherent over the middle third of the ascending frontal convolution. 1888 From a married woman, aged 30 years, who had borne no children. There was a history of fracture of the skull, and it was probable that she had been a drunkard. She had hallucinations of sight, fancying that people were coming to kill her. After admission into Broadmoor, her history was one of progressive general paralysis—restlessness, destructiveness, grandiose ideas, followed by general paresis and dementia, with frequent attacks of epileptiform convulsions. She rapidly wasted during the last two months of her life. Presented by David Nicolson, M.D. ABSCESS OF THE CEREBRAL CORTEX, FROM A CASE OF JACKSONIAN EPILEPSY. 2484a. The Left Cerebral Hemisphere, cut transversely to show an abscess of the cortex. The section has been made through the upper part of the ascending frontal convolution, and has been carried vertically downwards. The abscess is situated in this convolution, beneath the pia mater and a thin layer of brain substance, a quarter of an inch above the fissure of Sylvius. It is conical in section, extending into the substance of the brain for five-eighths of an inch. Its base is irregularly notched. The cerebral substance, for a considerable distance round the abscess, has been so much inflamed that the pia mater is adherent, and the membrane has, therefore, been left in situ. 1887 From a female patient, aged 20, who was admitted to the Hospital with a history of headache lasting for three weeks, with some paresis of the right arm and leg, the face being unaffected. She was said to have suffered from thirteen " fits," consisting of convulsions attacking the right side of the face and spreading to the right arm and leg. The convulsive attacks were followed by aphasia. On admission, she had slight facial paralysis with total loss of power in the right arm and some loss of control over the right leg. No knee-jerk or ankle-clonus could be obtained. There was aphasia and intense double optic neuritis. The lungs and heart were normal. The muscles of the right arm and leg were wasted, but reacted to the Faradaic current. Sensation was normal, and there was no verbal deafness. A week after her admission the patient developed pneumonia, purpuric spots were observed over her abdomen, the urine became albuminous, and she died a week later. At the post-mortem no meningitis or ear-disease was discovered, and there was no thrombosis in the sinuses to account for the cerebral abscess. See Mary Ward Booh for 1887, No. 42. 2486a. The Left Cerebral Hemisphere, showing an abscess in the temporo-sphenoidal lobe, which resulted from the extension of an inflammation into the brain substance. The inflammation originated from necrosis of the mastoid cells. 1886 M., Eet. five ; admitted with a mastoid abscess, from which offensive pus was evacuated one month before death. At the autopsy no diffuse meningitis was found, but there was a localised patch of inflammation of the meninges corresponding with the diseased bone. The temporal bone is preserved in Series i., No. 226b. See 3Iale Surgical Register, vol. v. (1885), No. 482. 2486b. The lower part of the Left Hemisphere of a Brain, showing two Abscess Cavities. The larger is roughly oval in shape, measuring about three by one and a quarter inches ; it involves the white matter beneath the convolutions of the island of Reil, the outer and posterior part of the lenticular nucleus, and the posterior part of the posterior limb of the internal capsule ; the circumference was red and . thickened, the abscess being evidently old. The smaller abscess, the size of a small marble, lies at the mesial border of the lenticular nucleus. 1891 The patient was a man, aged 31. For further details see Medical Post-Mortem Register, vol. xvi., p. 69.