200 DISEASES AND INJUKIBS OF THE BRAIN AND ITS MEMBRANES. 2449a. A Portion of a Calvaria, showing a Blood Cyst in the arachnoid. The cyst is situated a little below the right parietal eminence; its walls are tbicii, and are lined by organised blood-clot. It is evidently of h)ng standing. When the cyst was laid open, it contained six ounces of blood-stained fluid. 1889 From a man, aged 68 years. No history of an injury to the head was obtainable. The bladder and urethra of this patient are preserved in Series xl., No. 2872a. See Surgical Post-JIortem Register for 1888. p. 147, and Male Surgical Begister, vol. ii. (1888), No. 2996. 2456a. The Dura Mater, covering the upper part of the Brain. The under surface of the right side is much thickened by numerous flat nodulated giwths, some of which are attached by a thin pedicle only. It is evident that the greater number of these lie beneath the arachnoid. Tliey are probably due to syphilitic inflammation of the dura mater. A large mass, which was more loosely connected than the rest, and became detached during the removal of tlie cranium, is hung above the speci- men already described ; it also occurred on the right side. 1892 From a man, aged 36, who died in Wandsworth Lunatic Asylum. He had been an inmate of various asylums for the last eight years of his life. Microscopical sections of the tumour are preserved in Series Iv., No. 419a. Presented by A. M. Jackson, M.D. SYPHILITIC DISEASE. 2457a. Portion of a Dura Mater, taken from the same case as the SkuU-Oap in Series i., No. 322a. Roundish gummatous deposits, about the diameter of a pea, are situated upon the dura mater, along the course of the superior longitudinal sinus. They correspond in position to patches of increased vascularity in the inner table of the skull-cap. 1881 On examination with the microscope they showed the structure of a gumma. 2459a. The upper part of the Dura Mater, on the cerebral surface of which are several irregular growths composed of hard bony substance. They are not sym- metrical, those on the right side being situated over the frontal and parietal regions, that on the left side mostly over the occipital region. There is also a hard spicule on the right side of the posterior part of the falx cerebri. 1892 From the Dissecting-room. 2464a. The Falx Cerebri of a man, aged forty-six, who died from acute mania of eight weeks' duration. He was supposed to be suffering from syphilis. On the lower edge of the falx are several elongated calcareous masses of irregular shape. They appear to be simply deposited on, and not in, the membrane, and are found on both sides of it. In some places the membrane is much thinned, and the calcareous matter can be seen through the atrophied structure. The brain and the rest of the meninges were apparently healthy. 1882 Presented by W. Lenton Heath, M.D. 2465a. The right half of a Brain and Cerebellum, with a portion of the Dura Mater of the same side. To the under surface of the latter is attached, by a broad base, a large globular tumour, measuring nearly two inches in diameter, and wliich has caused a corresponding depression in the surface of the hemisphere. The centre of the depression is over the upper two inches of the fissure of Rolando (centres for arm and leg). The pia mater and arachnoid pass over, and line, tlie surface of the depression, and though they appear somewhat thinned, they are not, except at one spot, adherent to the tumour : owing to this adherent spot they have been torn in removing the tumour from its bed. On the cranial side of the dura mater the situation of the base of the tumour can be clearly seen. It was slightly adherent to the bone at this spot. 1891