ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE URINARY ORGANS. 345 3661a. A Bladder, with the Ureters and Kidney. The right kidney has two com- plete ureters, which open into the bladder by separate orifices. The left kidney and ureter were normal. A longitudinal section of the right kidney shows that the upper ureter is connected with a portion of the renal substance, which is separated by a thin layer of fibrous tissue from the inferior part of the gland. It, therefore, appears probable that the apparently single kidney is composed of two separate parts which have not completely fused. 1888 3663b. A Kidney with'five ureters. After a short com-se the ureters converge and unite to form a single tube of the normal size. 1884 Presented by W. S. Richmond, Esq. CLASS v.—ARREST OF DEVELOPMENT. 3666a. The Kidneys, from a woman, aged thirty. The right kidney is congenitally atrophied. It measures two inches in length, and only weighs 160 grains, whilst the left kidney is larger and heavier than usual. From the size of the pelvis and ureter, however, and from the healthy condition of the parenchyma of the atrophied kidney, it appears as if the organ had never been entirely functionless. 1887 (&.) Of the Bladder. Extroversion of the Bladder. 3668a. The Soft Parts, consisting of the mucous membrane of the bladder, the penis, scrotum, anus, and surrounding skin of a man, over sixty years of age, who had extroversion of the bladder. On the anterior aspect, and near the centre of the specimen, is a fungating villous mass, consisting of the hypertrophied mucous membrane of the bladder. It is roughly oval in shape, and measures three inches in a transverse, and two inches in its vertical diameter ; at the lower part of this mass, and rather to the right of the middle line, two green glass rods mark the opening of the ureters. Below this is a short and stumpy penis in a condition of complete epispadias. The mucous membrane of the glans is normal, but the skin of the rest of the penis is thickened, and the papilliB are hypertrophied from the constant irritation of the decomposing urine. The skin immediately below the penis is in a similar condition, as is also that of the flattened and divided scrotum, but to a less extent. The scrotum is ill-defined, and consists of two oval eminences, each of which contains a well-formed testis, but these, as can be seen from behind, are widely separated. There is an inguinal hernia on each side, the sac on the right side descending only into the upper or funicular portion of the tunica vaginalis, that on the left descend- ing into the cavity of the tunica vaginalis itself. The following structures are seen from behind. The edge of the great omentum is adherent to the front abdominal wall at the point where the peritoneum is re- flected backwards. The two kidneys and ureters (A.) are normal. Below the termination of the "latter is an eminence, which is the misplaced prostate. On it the vasa deferentia (B) terminate, and below, and to the outer side of these, are the vesiculEe seminales (C). The last two or three inches of the rectum, which was large and capacious, show great hypertrophy of the special muscles, viz., the external sphincter and levator ani. The end of the descending colon and commencement of the sigmoid flexure are also seen. 1890 From a man of whom the following history was obtained. That he was admitted into a workhouse infirmary when he was 21 years of age, and that he lived there for over forty years. Owing to the extreme unpleasantness caused by the decomposition of the urine, he lived alone in a small cottage, which was specially built for him within the workhouse grounds. He had complete control over the sphincter ani. He suffered much from muscular rheumatism, especially during the latter part of his life. The pelvis is preserved in Series xlvii., No. 3104c. Presented by Lovell Drage, M.D.