CASTS AND MODELS OF DISEASED AND INJURED PARTS. 317 lOlb. Cast of the Abdomen of a man, aged thirty, who had the lateral subcutaneous veins very greatly enlarged. The distension was probably the result of thrombosis of the inferior vena cava. 1889 A drawing of the abdomen is also preserved in Series Ivii., No. 204. DEFORMITIES OF THE CHEST RESULTING FROM PULMONARY DISEASE. 101c. Cast of an Alar, or Pterygoid Chest. The thorax is narrow and shallow, its antero-posterior diameter is reduced, and its length is increased. The shoulders fall, and the scapulae project like wings. 1889 From a boy, aged 16, who had all the physical signs of advanced pulmonary phthisis. See Br. BruntorCs Out-Patient Register for 1888, No. 1402. lOld. Cast of the Thorax of a man who had chronic bronchitis and emphysema. The thorax is large and barrel-shaped, whilst the ribs and sternum are raised, as is usual in advanced cases of emphysema. In the transverse section the increased space occupied by the lungs is well seen. 1889 From a man, aged 31, who for three months had been confined to his bed with cough and shortness of breath. He had been ill for the three preceding winters, though he was able to work in summer. Physical examination showed that the cardiac dulness was absent. There was well-marked epigastric pulsation. See Matthew Ward Booh for 1889, s. v. A. J. Topolski. lOle. Cast of the Chest of a boy, aged eleven years, whose ribs on the left side had been resected for the cure of an empyema. The operation had been performed sixteen months previously. 1889 lOlf. Cast of the Chest of a girl, aged eleven years, whose ribs had been resected on the right side for the cure of an empyema. The operation had been performed four years previously. 1889 The two preceding casts were taken from out-patients attending the Koyal Hospital for Diseases of the Chest, City Koad. lOlg". Cast of the right side of the Chest of a man, aged nineteen, showing much falling in of the three or four upper ribs, due to collapse of the lung following empyema. 1890 For notes of the case see Mattliem Ward Book, n. v. William Little. lOlll. Cast of the right side of the Chest of the same man, taken ten weeks later. 1890 102c. Cast of the Face of a man, showing a lateral deviation of the septum of the nose. 1885 102d.. A Cast of a Face, showing a lateral deviation of the septum nasi. 1888 1026- Cast of the Face of a woman, in whom, as a result of syphilitic necrosis, the whole of the nasal cartilages have disappeared. Cicatrisation subsequently occurred, and the anterior nares have been totally obliterated, leaving a smooth scar. {Cf. Series Ivii., No. 1152.) 1888 See Magdalen Ward Book for 1888, No. 639. 104a. The following Casts of Teeth were presented by Alfred Coleman, Esq. :— 1. Excess in Teeth, temporary series. 2. Deficiency in Teeth, do. 3. Early eruption of a low front Central Incisor, age four years seven months. 4. Supernumerary Teeth. 5. Geminated or United Teeth (inherited syphilis). Y 2