SERIES vn. DISEASES AlfD IirJTJRIES OF THE PERI- CAEDITJl AlfD OF THE HEART. 1219a. Heart and Lungs with part of the Chest Wall, from a case of pericarditis following upon pjEemia. The parietal pericardium is much thickened in part, and is adherent to the left pleura. The heart is covered with flakes of recent lymph. The left lung is collapsed, and is separated from the lower part of the pleural cavity by firm bands of adhesion. 1885 From a boy, aged nine, who fell from a swing and sustained an injury to his shoulder. For further history and notes of the case see ;S^. Bartholomew's Hospital RexJorts, vol. xix., p. 271, " Notes on a Case of Pysemia with Suppurative Pericarditis," by Dr. E. D. Brinton and E. J. Collyns, Esq., and by Dr. Samuel West in the Transactions of the Pathological Society, vol. XXXV., p. 104, TUBERCULAR PERICARDITIS. 1231a. A Heart to which the Pericardium is universally adherent. The heart is enlarged, and weighs seventeen ounces with its covering. In front, the pericardium has been incised and partially detached ; on its inner surface and on the surface of the heart numerous tabercles can still be seen imbedded in the coagulated fibrin. They are now much less distinct than when the specimen was fresh. Examination of the interior of the heart showed that the valves were normal and unaffected. 1892 The patient was a sailor boy, aged 16. He was admitted into Hospital only three weeks before his death. During his illness he never complained of any pain, and, with the excep- tion of a markedly hectic temperature, did not seem ill. Coma, probably due to tubercular meningitis, set in the day before his death. At the post-mortem examination his lungs, liver, and spleen were all the seat of recent tubercular inflammation. Presented by Surgeon Gipps, R.N. 1233a. A Heart with a partially adherent Pericardium. With the exception of the front surface of the left ventricle, where adhesion has occurred, the surface of the heart is covered with a fine flaky deposit, derived from the thick curdy pus which the pericardium contained. 1890 From a child, aged two years and four months, who died of meningitis and catarrhal pneumonia (at upper lobe). No tubercles were seen on the meninges. See Medical Post-Mortem Booh, vol. xv., p. 66. 1233b. A Heart with a greatly distended Pericardium. The surface of the heart is uniformly covered with a thick layer of coagulated lymph. The pericardium, which contained thirty-two ounces of pus, is thickened, and has a similar layer of lymph on its inner surface. 1890 From a case of acute periostitis of the femur. See Female Surgical Begistei; yoI i. (1888), No. 1178.