ABNOKMAL CONDITIONS OF THE AXIS. 327 apparently solid gland, which does not seem to have any dnct. This gland is one inch in length, and lies in the long axis of the abdominal cavity. The spinal column is well developed, and terminates in a romided extremity, situated at the upper limit of the thorax. Its cavity encloses a spinal cord enveloped in membranes. 1889 From a Jewess, aged 33 years. The third pregnancy, the preceding children being healthy and well formed. The monster was first expelled ; it presented by the breech. The cord was remarkably short. A quarter of an hour later the other twin was born, also with a breech presentation. It was hydrocephalic, but was otherwise well formed. It was born dead. There was a single placenta, to which both cords were separately attached. See Tmnsactiuns of the Ohstetrical Society for 1890. Presented by Woodley Sly man, Esq. SUB-CLASS II.—IMPERFECT DEVELOPMENT OP THE BRAIN AND ITS MEMBRANES. 3443a. Microscopical Sections of an Early Human Embryo, in which there was retroflection, associated with absence of the spinal medulla and imperfection of the vertebral column. The embryo had probably reached the fiftieth day of intra-uterine life. It measured eight millimetres in length, of which the head alone measured five milHmetres. 1887 The sections are fully described, with plates, in the. Transactions of the Ohstetrical Society, vol. xxix. (1887). Prepared and presented by C. B. Lockwood, Esq. 3445a. The Skeleton of a Siren Foetus. The lower extremities were contained in a single sheath integument. The cartilages representing the tarsus are fused, but the bones of the legs and thighs are separate. The femora are in a condition of complete external rotation. The pubes are fused together at an acute angle. There is some lateral curvature in the lumbar region, and the lumbar and sacral vertebraj are deformed. 1888 Presented by Florio St. Quintin Bond, Esq. SUB-CLASS IV.—DEFECTIVE CLOSURE OF THE THORACIC AND ABDOMINAL CAVITIES. A FCETUS WITH ADHERENCE OF THE MEMBRANES TO THE SKULL AND MANY OTHER ABNORMALITIES. 3451a. A Male Foetus, in which the placenta and membranes have become adherent to the skull. The foetus is well developed, and was born at term. The placenta is of the ordinary size, but the umbilical cord is short. Microscopical examination of the cord did not show any change in its structure or in the arrangement of its vessels. The foetus is anencephalic, and has a large meningocele in the right side of the lambdoidal suture. It has also a double hair-lip and cleft palate with macrostomia; both eyes are defective, and the eye-slits are very small. A portion of the amnion with the umbilical cord at the point where it is inserted into the placenta is attached to the upper aspect of the base of the skull by a broad and firm band of membrane, the line of attachment running along the upper part of the hard 23alate. There is well-marked lateral curvature of the spine. The heart is partly ectopic, and it is tricoelian ; it consists of a large left auricle, a rudimentary right auricle, and a common ventricle. The apex is prolonged upwards through a fissure m the sternum, to be attached to the base of the skull immediately to the right of the common nostril. The portion of the heart thus prolonged is hollow, and con-