SERIES XLVIII. See Female Surgical Register, vol. iv. (1886), No. 2459. DISEASES OE THE lAllAM aiAITD. HYPERTROPHY. 3142a. A Section tlirougli a very greatly Hypertropliied Mammary Gland. The hypertrophy is due to an infiltration of the gland with fibro-cellular tissue. Tlie section measures ten inches in length by four inches in depth. 1889 From an unmarried lady, aged 21 years, in whom the hypertrophy had been proceeding for a period of three years. Both breasts were amputated, and after removal the right was found to weigh forty-eight ounces, whilst the left, from which the above section was taken, weighed no less than eighty ounces. Presented by Thomas Smith, Esq. HYPERTROPHY OF THE MALE BREAST. 3142b. A Mammary Gland, removed, after death, from a Man. There is a well- marked nipple and a pigmented areola. The gland itself is flat and oval, measuring two and a half inches in its long diameter. 1893 CYSTIC DISEASE. 3146a. A Cyst, removed from the mammary gland, in the substance of which it was deeply situated. Its interior presents a partial division into separate cavities. Before removal it presented many of the signs of a solid tumour. 1882 Presented by W. Morrant Baker, Esq. DUCT PAPILLOMA. 3146b. A small Papillomatous Tumour growing within a cyst of the breast, to which it is attached by a single small pedicle. Microscopical examination proved that the growth was a simple papilloma. 1886 From a woman, aged 39. The tumour was first noticed seven months previously. Ten or twelve minute growths similar to the intra-cystic growth here shown were found attached to the cyst wall. See Female Surgical Register, vol. v. (1886), No. 429. 3146c. A Portion of the Mammary Gland, containing two large and well-defined unilocular cysts. The breast tissue also contains numerous smaller cysts. Micros- copical examination shows that the cyst wall resembles granulation tissue, being chiefly composed of leucocytes lying in a loose fibrous stroma. A section of the breast around the cyst shows a fibrous stroma in which is embedded normal gland tissue and cysts formed by the dflatation of the acini. The epithelium of the lacti- ferous ducts is proliferating. 1888 From a married woman, aged 44, who had sero-cystic disease of both breasts.