243 DISEASES OP THE OVARIES. TUBO-OVARIAN CYST. 2924a. A Tubo-Ovarian Cyst, from the body of a nulHparous single woman, aged twenty-seven. The uterus and left appendages are normal. Tlie right ovary is converted into a thin-walled unilocular cyst, five inches in length, to which the ovarian ligament is attached. At the point of attachment traces of ovarian substance are seen. The Fallopian tube measures nine inches in length, the outer half is distended as in ordinary hydro-salpinx ; it is adherent, and opens into the ovarian cyst, the opening having a diameter of two inches. No remains of the fimbriae are visible. The adhesion of the tube to the cyst appears to be due to inflammation, a piece of omentum being attached to the right cornu of the uterus. 1886 See Transactkms of tlw Obstetrical Society for 1887. Presented by W. S. A. Griffith, M.D. 2924b. A Specimen illustrating the formation of a Tubo-Ovarian Cyst. It consists of the right Fallopian tube, which is adherent by its fimbriated extremity to the outer end of the ovary. The closure and dilatation of the fimbriated extremity of the tube has led to the formation of a small hydro-salpinx. There is a unilocular cyst of the size of a pigeon's egg at the outer side of the ovary, and between this cyst and the hydro-salpinx, i.e., at the outer end of the hilum, is a - small papillomatous cyst containing warty growths. No communication has, as yet, taken place between them. 1888 2924c. A Specimen showing the Formation of a Tubo-Ovarian Cyst. The uterus is anteflexed, and the pouch of Douglas is occupied by the distended Fallopian tubes, which, with the ovaries, are bound down by peritonitic adhesions of long standing. The left Fallopian tube, which encircles an otherwise healthy ovary, presents the usual characters of hydro-salpinx. Its uterine extremity appears to be obliterated at a point which is just external to the uterus. The right Fallopian tube is adherent to, and communicates with, a cyst which was originally bilocnlar. The cyst is of very small size, but it involves the whole of the ovary. No trace of the free ends of the fimbriae can be found, but the tube is patent throughout its course. It is dilated up to the uterine extremity, its interstitial portion remaining normal. 1888 A drawing is preserved in Series Ivii., No. 961. 2925a. One half of a Solid Tumour of the Ovary, which was removed from a woman, aged forty, who had dysmenorrhcea for a year, but without any definite symptoms of ovarian disease. The duration of the growth was quite uncertain. The patient was in good health a year after its removal. Microscopical examination shows that the structure of the tumour is exactly similar to that of a normal ovary. 1887 2925b. One half of a Solid Tumour of the Eight Ovary. 1890 From a patient, aged 62. Eighteen months before operation she discovered a swelling in the right iliac fossa ; it grew slowly for a year, then increased rapidly, forming a moveable solid mass, which filled the right iliac fossa and the hypogastrium, extending into the left iliac fossa. The tumour was removed by ovariotomy, and weighed two pounds thirteen ounces. The pedicle was broad, but not abnormal. One year after the operation there were no signs of recurrence. Presented by Alban Doran, Esq. CYSTIC FIBROMA OF THE OVARY. 2927a. One half of a Large Solid Tumour of the Ovary, removed by abdominal section. The tumour consists of connective tissue of the same type as the stroma of the ovary, but in every stage of development into pure connective tissue. Some