DISEASES OF BONES. 12 226b. Part of the Temporal Bone of a Child. The mastoid portion is brown and rough ; it has undergone necrosis. The periosteum is retracted over the internal surface of the petrous portion, leaving the bone bare. 1886 From a child, who died with a cerebral abscess consequent upon the necrosis of the mastoid process. The brain is preserved in Series xxx., No. 2486a. See 3Iale Surgical Rcrjistcr, vol. v. (1885), No. 482. 242a. A Portion of the Lower Jaw, including the Symphysis, with one incisor tooth attached. The whole mass has undergone necrosis after a severe injury, and separated as a sequestrum. 1890 From a woman, aged 46, who received a violent kick on the lower jaw which knocked out several teeth ; the sequestrum was removed eight months later. Presented by A. G. Francis, Esq. 244a. The Epiphysis of the Head of the Eight Femur, which, following on pyfemic periostitis, became necrosed and separated as a sequestrum. 1891 The patient was a child, aged nine, who suffered from chronic pyasmia. The disease commenced as acute periostitis of the opposite femur, necessitating at length amputation just below the great trochanter. Suppuration subsequently occurred in the right hip-joint, and resulted in the separation of this sequestrum. See Female Surgical Register, vol. v. (1891), No. 565. 258a. Section of a Femur, in which a small portion of the compact tissue, about the junction of the middle and upj^er third, has become necrosed. Immediately around this, and for some distance along the shaft, an excessive amount of new bone has been formed. The surrounding soft tissues have shared in the morbid action, and the inflammatory process has resulted in the formation of a tumour-like mass of condensed tissue around the sclerosed bone. In the upper part of the preparation, the bone has become thickened at the expense of the medullary canal, which is occluded. A very small channel leads from the cavity containing the necrosed bone into the mass of tissue surrounding the shaft, and along this a glass rod is passed into a small abscess cavity which contained a few drops of pus. 1882 From a man, aged 29, who had noticed a swelling on the thigh for three months, it was painful and tender. On an incision being made into this, it was thought to be a periosteal sarcoma, and amputation was performed at the hip-joint.—See Henry Ward Booh, vol. viii., p. 140. CENTRAL NECROSIS. 258b. One half of the lower end of a left Femur. The bone has been sawn through longitudinally, thereby exposing a small flat sequestrum lying in a distinct cavity in the expanded lower end of the shaft. Immediately above the epiphysis, and extending for six inches up the shaft, the bone is much thickened by an irre- gular deposit of new bony material, which is nodular on the surface. This increase occurs mostly on the inner side. It has been deposited beneath the periosteum, as shown by the fact that the outline of the shaft is clearly discernible beneath the new bone. On the posterior surface of the bone is a small depression which formed part of a small abscess cavity ; this protruded slightly into the popliteal space, but lay deeply, and was not found until after the removal of the limb. 1893 From a boy, aged 14, who had noticed a swelling in the lower part of the thigh for six weeks. It increased rapidly, and was thought to be a sarcoma. It was not until the bone had been divided that the real nature of the disease was detected. See Male Surgical Register, vol. v. (1892), No. 1280. 258c. A portion of the lower end of a Femur which has been sawn through longitudinally to expose an abscess lying in the centre of the shaft, caused by the presence of sequestra after necrosis. The cavity of the abscess commences at about one inch from the lower end, at or about the junction of the epiphysis with