127 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE STOMACH. upper orifice and extending downwards about one inch and a half, the tube being somewhat dilated above. The wound shows scarcely any signs of healing, and both its edges and the skin where the deep sutures have been passed are in a sloughy- condition. Scarcely any adhesion has taken place between the contiguous surfaces of peritoneum, so that the peritoneal cavity is in free communication with both the stomach and external air ; nevertheless there was no escape of food or signs of peritonitis. The child lived a fortnight after the operation. The potash had been swallowed seven months previously. 1883 See Barker Ward Booh, vol. viii., p. 237. 1951a. The Stomach and part of the Jejunum of a man on whom the operation of gastro-enterostomy was performed for the relief of a malignant growth at the pylorus. The stomacli has been laid open along its lesser curvature ; the jejunum has also been laid open. In each of these is seen a decalcified bone plate, by means of which the two viscera were approximated and held together ; in the centre of them is the aperture of communication. The peritoneal surfaces of the two viscera are also united by a series of fine sutures. The jejunum has become united to the stomach over the whole area of the intended union. The growtli has involved the pyloric end of the stomach, the walls of which are much thickened. There is also a large ulcer with raised edges on the anterior wall of this region ; the duodenum does not seem to be affected. Microscopical examination showed that the malignant growth was a short columnar-celled carcinoma. 1891 The patient was a man, aged 34, who, when admitted, had only suffered from symptoms of pyloric obstruction for five weeks. A month later the operation of gastro-enterostomy was performed, but he died on the second day. At the post-mortem examination it was found that there was no peritonitis. See Male Siirgical Rcgidfit; vol. i. (1890), No. 2586. A microscopical section is preserved in Series Iv., No. 252. LORETTA'S OPERATION. 1951b. A Stomach upon which Loretta's Operation of forcible dilatation of the pylorus was performed seven days before death. The whole viscus is very considerably dilated ; it has been laid open by a curved incision carried along its anterior surface through the pylorus into the duodenum. The walls of the stomach are very much thickened, and in the posterior wall there is a large ulcer which has involved and destroyed all the coats except the peritoneal ; its edges are raised and thickened, and it is continuous with the thickened wall immediately in front of the pylorus. Microscopical examination showed that the ulcer was innocent in character, and that it contained no signs of carcinoma or other malignant growth. Parallel with the incision already mentioned, and about one and a half inches below it, there is seen the recent scar of the incision by which the stomach was opened during life. On the outside this has united for half its length, but on the inner surface the mucous membrane is separated from the muscular layers through the whole length of the incision. 1893 From a man, aged 30, who had suffered from pain in the epigastrium for five years. He died from exhaustion seven days after the operation. See Male Surgical Register, vol. v. (1892), No. 756.