228 DISEASES OF THE TESTICLE, ITS COVERINGS, AND OF THE SPERMATIC CORD. become adherent, and from this a small abscess has been evacnated. Seen from behmd, it is noticed that both the epididymis and cord are considerably thickened. 1892 Presented by John. Langton, Esq. 2774c. A Testis, removed by operation on account of tubercular disease. It has been injected, and subsequently laid open from the front. The whole of the body is much enlarged, and extensively involved, showing on the cut surface numerous small caseous nodules. The epididymis is also much enlarged, and the upper part converted into a caseous mass. The cavity of the tunica vaginalis is filled with coagulated blood. Behind, a small piece of the skin of the scrotum, where a small abscess had burst, is still adherent to the gland. 1893 The patient was 40 years of age. The testis of the opposite side had been removed thirteen months previously for the same complaint. Presented by Howard Marsh, Esq. 2778a. Section of a Testis, affected with tubercular disease. The gland is only slightly enlarged ; the cut surface is firm and fibrous, but thickly dotted over with small caseous nodules ; the tubules of the epididymis are filled with a similar material ; the epididymis itself is not much enlarged. The cord is thickened, and the vas deferens has a diameter about three times as great as is natural. The tunica vaginalis is healthy. 1883 From a man, aged 52 years, who said that the tumour had followed a blow received twelve weeks previously. There was evidence of disease at the apices of the lungs, and some family history of consumption. Microscopical examination discovered the presence of the giant cells and reticulum characteristic of tubercle, the tubules being blocked with epithelial debris. Microscopical sections are preserved in Series 1^., No. 540. The other half of the testis is in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons. See Piteairn Ward Booli, vol. viii., p. 118, 2778b. A Tubercular Testis. The gland is about the size of a hen's egg, some- what granular on section, of a yellowish colour, unduly firm to the touch, and more than usually adherent to the surrounding tunica albuginea. The latter is thickened, and the tunica vaginalis is adherent. The epididymis is enlarged, though not greatly, filled with caseating, yellow material, and breaking down in parts into a soft, pulpy mass. The cord is thickened generally, but the vas deferens more especially so. The latter has been separated from the surrounding structures, and may be seen to be about the size of a crow-quill. 1884 From a healthy man, aged 54 years, who said that the swelling of the organ first made its appearance four months before castration was performed, after a severe strain. He suffered no pain. 2778c. One halt: of a Tubercular Testis. Its cut surface closely resembles that of the preceding specimen, but is rather smaller, and more firm and fibrous. The tunica albuginea is slightly thickened, and the tunica vaginalis partially adherent. The epididymis is very slightly, if at all, enlarged, and the vas deferens is scarcely thicker than natural. 1884 The patient was a healthy man, aged 33 years. He had noticed a swelling of the testis for eighteen months, gradually increasing in size, and painless. 2778d. Testis affected with strumous disease. The testis ulcerated out, and was found in the patient's bed. 1884 Presented by S. Paget, Esq. 2780a. The Right Testicle and Epididymis, laid open to show tubercular deposits. The epididymis is enlarged, and infiltrated with caseous material, which has broken