DISEASES OF "joints. 41 740b, e, d. Right and Left Knee-Joints and Rigbt Ankle-Joint from a case of Ha'mophilia. The ankle-joint (740d) is the least affected ; the synovial mem- brane is slightly tinged, but there is no structural change in the articulation. When fresh, the joint contained some fresh dark blood and a small clot. In the left knee (740c) traces of effused blood are visible in the russet-brown staining of the lining membrane. The joint contained no blood-clot. The cartilages are pearly wliite. At the under surface of tlie external femoral condyle, where it meets the pressure of the tibia, the cartilage is worn thin and is granular over a space half an inch in diameter. The ligaments are unaltered. The connective tissue of the right knee (740b) is deeply stained of a brown colour, and the changes in the cartilages are farther advanced than in the preceding joints. The cartilage is deficient at the points where the pressure is greatest, and a formation of bone thinly covered by cartilage has taken place at the periphery of the joint. About the centre of the under surface of each femoral condyle the cartilage is thin, worn, and rough. It is fissured in various directions and laminated, and has so far lost its attachment to the bone, that a knife can be passed beneath it here and there for a distance of two to three lines. The edges of the partially detached cartilage are seen when raised to be ragged and fibrous, and are split into layers, as in a case of chronic rheumatoid arthritis. Around each condyle was a prominent lip of bone, some- what nodular, and covered by cartilage. Microscopic examination of the cartilage showed a fibroid degeneration of the hyaline matrix, with multiplication of the cells and breaking-up of their capsules. The minute, like the grosser changes, bore a marked resemblance to the alterations which take place in rheumatoid arthritis. 1884 The specimens were obtained from a boy, aged 13, who died from epistaxis. He had bled twice previously—once from a small wound on his tongue, and a second time after extraction of a tooth. He had frequently suffered from painful swellings of his joints, and he bruised easily. A brother died of cpistaxis. A section is preserved in Series Iv., No. 86, and drawings of the joints when fresh are preserved in Series Ivii., No. 83a, b, and c. For further details sec Darker Ward Book, vol. viii., pp. 416, 420, 486. D 2