132 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE INTESTINES. At the stricture the intestine is coiled on itself and firmly fixed in that position, while beyond the constriction the intestine is of normal size. 1890 From a man, aged 30, who died in the Hospital of intestinal obstruction. At the post- mortem examination water could with difficulty be forced through the stricture. A calcareous sausage-shaped mass, three and a half inches long, the result of an old tubercular (?) abscess, was found in the front wall of the abdomen, just below the umbilicus. His left kidney was also tubercular. See Male Surgical Register, vol. iii. (1889), No. 2028 ; also Surgical Post-Mortem Register, 1889, p. 98. 2018a. A Caecum with portions of the contiguous intestine. The small intestine is much dilated, and immediately above the ileo-cfecal valve is the seat of extensive ulceration, which gives a reticular appearance to the surface of the gut. The ridge of the ileo-cajcal valve is very low, and much of its structure seems to have been destroyed. The ileo-ca3cal orifice is considerably constricted, so that it would barely give passage to a large probe. In the cascum is the aperture of an operation wound, and three inches farther down, the large intestine exhibits an ulcer in the transverse diameter of the gut. 1883 From a man, aged 47 years, from whom no previous history of abdominal obstruction could be obtained. Before death he suffered from complete obstruction for twelve days, when right lumbar colotomy was performed without affording any relief. The case is described by Dr. Moore in the Transactions of the Pathological Society, vol. xxxiv., p. 112. MUCOUS POLYPI. 2019a. The Sigmoid Flexure, the Rectum and the Urinary Bladder. At the lower part of the rectum is a tight stricture, above which the gut is dilated. A glass rod is passed through an ulcerated track, extending from the intestine into the bladder ; it also communicated with a large abscess cavity lying between the two viscera. The mucous membrane of the descending colon and upper part of the sigmoid flexure is covered with pendulous soft polypoid growths, which were found on microscopic examination to consist entirely of mucous tissue. 1881 From a female ; nearly all the fseces passed through the bladder. A section of the polypus is preserved in Series Iv., No. 261. 2019b. Portion of a Colon, the mucous membrane of which is studded at intervals with small polypoid growths of a similar nature to those seen in the preceding specimen. They commence immediately beyond the ileo-c£ecal valve, and may be found as far as about midway along the descending colon ; they have no distinct relation to any particular portion of the circumference of the gut, and are quite separate from each other ; some are sessile, others slightly pedunculated, all are soft, and both covered with and surrounded by healthy mucous membrane. They are formed entirely by a thickening of the submucous connective tissue. 1883 From a man, aged 60 ; there was no stricture of the rectum. The case is described by Mr. Bowlby in the Transactions of the Pathological Society, vol. xxxiv., p. 108. 2019c. A Portion of the Large Intestine, which has been laid open. Attached by a short pedicle, about a quarter of an inch in length, is a small oval polypus, of the size of a horse-bean. About an inch above it is a second pedicle, to which a similar polypus was probably attached. The polypus was discovered accidentally after death. 1890 Compare Specimen No. 2062a for a somewhat similar growth from the rectum. 2020a. A piece of Jejunum, about one foot from the duodenum, having a mass of cancerous material situated opposite the attachment of the mesentery. 1885 From a man who had cancer of the pancreas. For further details see Medical Post-Mortem Book, vol. X., p. 93.