SERIES XV. See Female Surgical Eegistcr, vol. iv. (1888), No. 2744*. DISEASES AM IIJTJUIES OF THE PHAETK AND CESOPHA&DS. 1833a. An oesophageal Diverticulum removed by operation : it measures ratlier more than an inch in length, and is composed mainly of striped-muscular tissue with a lining of mucous membrane. 1892 The patient was a gentleman, aged 50, who had suflercd for five years from great incon- venience, due to the collection in, and the subsequent regurgitation of food from, the pouch : it was situated at the back of the oesophagus on a level with the cricoid cartilage. It was reached through an incision along the anterior margin of the left sterno-mastoid muscle ; the great vessels were drawn outwards, and the thyroid gland turned forwards and inwards : the pouch was then easily exposed and freed from its connection : the opening into the oesophagus was closed by means of eight silk ligatures. The patient made a good recovery. Presented by H. T. Butlio, Esq. 1837a. Portions of ejected diphtheritic False Membrane of unusually firm con- sistence. 1881 Presented by Walter Jessop, Esq. 1838a. The CEsophagus and Portion of the Stomach. The oesophagus is ulcerated at a point close to the stomach. The ulceration is not cancerous. At a short distance above the ulcerated portion the softened wall has been perforated by a catheter. 1884 1839a- A Tongue and Larynx with a portion of the soft palate, showing the narrowing of the pharynx which has resulted from the cicatrisation of long-standing syphilitic ulcers. The calibre of the oesophagus is greatly narrowed at a point corresponding with the cricoid cartilage, whilst the vocal cords are ulcerated. The soft palate had ulcerated completely through, but the ulcer had healed, leaving a perforation through which a rod had been passed. 1886 Prom a woman, aged 36, who had borne ten dead children. Presented by H. Holdrich Fisher, Esq. 1843a. A Larynx and CEsophagus, showing a stricture resulting from a malignant new growth. The wall of the oesophagus from the upper border of the cricoid cartilage is thickened and ulcerated by the new growth for a distance of two and a half inches. The lumen of the tube is encroached upon to such an extent that a thin rod can alone be passed along it. No suppuration appears to have taken place in the oesophagus, but a small abscess cavity was found lying beneath the left lobe of the thyroid gland and tracking upwards along the left ala of the thyroid cartilage. Microscopically the growth was an epithelioma. 1889 From a woman, aged 51, who had dysphagia for six months before her death. A No. 4 catheter could be passed through the stricture a month before the death of the patient.