270 DISEASES OF THE MAMMAKT GLAND. and a thin fluid exuded from it. The last child would not take this breast. The tumour was noticed for four months ; the eczema for seven years. For farther details see President Ward Booh, vol. ix., p. 327. 3181e. A Female Mamma. The areola is ulcerated and continuous with a large mass of scirrhous cancer. 1884 From a woman, aged 51, who had suffered for two years from eczema of the nipple, and for nine months from a tumour in the breast. The axillary glands were enlarged. For further details see Lucas Ward Booh, vol. ix., p. 9j5. 3181f. Scirrhus of the Breast, removed as a slough after treatment by caustics. 1885 The skin was first destroyed by concentrated nitric acid, and a paste of zinc chloride was applied daily to the cancerous mass. The furrows in the slough are the result of incisions made to facilitate the action of the chloride of zinc. The slough came away five weeks after the first application of the nitric acid. Presented by Howard Marsh, Esq. 3181g- Portion of a Breast infiltrated with scirrhous cancer, to show the sloughing which occurs after the application of a caustic. The first application was made three weeks before the removal of the gland. Almost the whole of the cancer is separating as a slough. 1888 3182a. A portion of the Left Mammary Gland, removed from a woman, aged sixty- four. The section shows a large number of cysts, which are for the most part filled with dark blood and broken-down intra-cystic growth. The cysts are enclosed in a dense fibrous stroma. Some of the ducts are dilated. In the fat surrounding the gland numerous smaller cysts are situated, and these peripheral cysts appear in some places to be continuous with the gland ducts. Microscopically, the growth is of a myxo-sarcomatous nature, into which considerable heemorrhage has occurred. 1888 A small hard lump was first noticed in the breast for eighteen months before the opera- tion ; it grew rapidly. The mother of the patient died of cancer. Immediately before removal of the breast, the upper and inner portion of the gland was occupied by a large irregularly oval swelling, which was hard and irregular. The skin was not adherent, the veins were enlarged, and the nipple was slightly retracted. There were no enlarged glands in the axilla, or above the clavicle. The patient died of erysipelas. No secondary growths were found at the post-mortem examination. See Female Surgical Rerjister, vol. v. (1887), No. 1204. HJEMORRHAaiC CARCINOMA. 3184a. One half of a Mammary Gland, removed on account of Scirrhous Carcinoma. The part affected, situated immediately beneath the nipple, is unusually well defined, and is separated from the surrounding tissue of the breast by a fibrous capsule. It is still of a much darker hue than the healthy gland, and, when fresh, was of a deep claret colour, due to the presence of a large quantity of blood. Microscopical examination showed its structure to be that of scirrhous carcinoma, into the fibrous tissue of which a great deal of blood had been effused. 1892 The patient was a woman, aged 54, who had noticed a lump in her breast for five weeks only, but had suffered pain there for eight weeks in all. She was married, but had not borne children. A microscopical section of the tumour is preserved in Series Iv., No. 659a. A drawing of the appearances, when fresh, is preserved in Series Ivii., No. 1041. See Female Surgical Register, vol. ii. (1891), No. 1066. 3184b. One half of a large Scirrhous Carcinoma of the breast, into which consider- able haemorrhage has occurred. The cut surface shows three distinct masses, each with a well-marked limiting membrane, giving the appearance of cysts, and measur- ing from one and a half to two and a half inches in diameter. Ha.'morrhage has