22 DISEASES OF BONES. popliteal space, but it also extends in front of the original outline of the bone, and into the medullary cayity itself. The articular cartilage can still be identified, and the knee-joint does not seem to be directly involved. Under the microscope sections showed the growth to be a typical myeloid sarcoma. 1892 From a middle-aged woman, who also suffered from a goitre. She died the evening of the day on which the amputation was performed. The goitre is preserved in Series xxvi., No. 231ih, and a cast of the limb in Series Ivi., No. 11a. See also Female Surgical Register, vol. v. (1889), No. 958. 454a- A Section of the Right Foot, showing a Sarcoma springing from beneath the periosteum of the bones of the tarsus. The growth is large, and, as usual, not circumscribed ; it extends through the deeper tissues of the foot, and has involved the skin of the sole, where it presents as a fungating mass. Micro- scopically it is a spindle and oval-celled sarcoma, with a hyaline matrix and many htemorrhages. 1886 F., ffit. 42. The swelling was first noticed seven months before amputation was performed. See Female Surgical Register, vol. iv. (1866), No. 61. 470a. One Half of the Uj^per End of a Right Tibia, which has been sawn through longitudinally. Growing from the interior of the bone and expanding it externally is a large mass of new growth ; in the deeper parts it has a fine spongy appearance, which was blood-stained when fresh, but is now only faintly mottled : more exter- nally it is homogeneous in character. The outer layers of the bone are much thinned and expanded on the external surface, where it could be cut with a knife, and from which portions of the bone have been removed. On the cut surface of the interior there is a sharp line of demarcation between the growth and the bone. The articular cartilage, though much thinned over the outer facet, has not given way, and the joint was not affected. Under the microscope the tumour proved to be a myeloid sarcoma with some hyaloid degeneration of a few of the myeloid cells. 1892 The patient was a gentleman, aged 50, who two months before the operation had knocked his knee. A swelling shortly appeared, over which "egg-shell crackling" was detected; amputation was then performed ; eighteen months after the operation he was in good health. Microscopical sections are preserved in Series Iv., No. 39. Presented by Thomas Smith, Esq. OSTEO-SARCOMA OF HUMERUS. 474a- The greater portion of a very large Osteo-Sarcoma which grew from the upper and inner part of the Right Humerus. The bone and tumour have been sawn through longitudinally, and the cut surface shows that the growth is of varying consistency ; in places it is of bony hardness, but is soft and breaking down else- where. The greater part of the shaft is actually involved, though the outline of the anterior surface can be traced throughout ; towards the upper and inner part is a well-defined hemispherical mass ; this had existed for many years, and is exces- sively hard. Higher up and towards the axiUa are a number of enlarged lymphatic glands, infected by and adherent to the primary growth. 1893 The patient was a man, aged 49. The tumour had existed for eight years, but had increased rapidly during the last year. It was removed by amputation at the shoulder-joint, and a good recovery followed. The limb, with the tumour, weighed thirty-three lbs. A drawing of the patient is preserved in Series Ivii., No. 44, and a photograph in No. 45. Microscopical sections of the tumour are preserved in Series Iv., No. 6.0a. See also Male Surgical Register, vol. iv. (1892), No. 1408. 475a. A portion of the shaft of a Femur excavated by the growth of an Endosteal Sarcoma. The femur is hollowed out into a conical cavity, filled by the firm tapering mass of new growth. At its upper part the bone has been sawn across