DISEASES OF BONES. 4 surface of the Tibia is for the most part smootli, with the exception of an oval patch measuring three inches in its long diameter, and situated on the inner surface of the lower third : this marks the seat of an ulcer of one year's duration. 1892 (In Case E.) 44a. Bones from a case of old Compound Fracture of the Leg, which was followed by chronic ulceration of the integuments at the seat of injury. The fracture of the Fibula has occurred considerably higher up than that of the Tibia, the lower extremity of which is displaced backwards. Both bones have been the seat of a widely diffused periostitis, resulting in the formation of stalactitic masses of new bone : the Tibia under the cutaneous ulcer is carious, and a considerable amount of the bone has been destroyed. Amputation was performed on account of the constant pain and uselessness of the limb. 1882 (In Case E.) OSTEITIS DEFORMANS. 72a. A Portion of the Frontal Bone, illustrating very well the great Hypertrophy that occurs in Osteitis Deformans. On the cut surface the remains of the diploe can still be seen at an equal distance from the inner and outer tables, thus sliowing that the thickness has resulted from a deposition of a new bone from both the inner and the outer periosteum. The inner surface is marked by the depression of numerous blood-vessels, and the outer surface is pierced here and there by vessels of a larger calibre than usual, showing the great vascularity of the bone during life. 1893 (In Case E.) The patient was a lady, aged 57, who had noticed gradual enlargement of her head during the last nine years of her life. The clavicles, humeri, femora, tibise, and flbul^ were all thickened, and their curves exaggerated. There was also some thickening and fixation of the vertebrfe. Her height had diminished from 5 feet to 3 feet 9 inches. There was no malignant disease. A photograph taken shortly before her death is preserved in Series Ivii., No. 17. Presented by R. H. W. Wilbe, M.D. 74a- Section of a Femur affected with Osteitis Deformans. The whole bone is curved in an outward and forward direction, the curvature affecting the entire length of the shaft, though most marked in its upper half. The shaft itself is much increased in circumference and very flattened in its antero-posterior diameter ; the girth of the thickest portion measures as much as six and a quarter inches, measurements of normal femora at the same level averaging about three and a half to three and three-quarter inches. The entire surface is rough and uneven from the presence of flattened, nodular growths of new periosteal bone, most marked in the upper third and along the linea aspera, and almost absent from the lower sixth of the shaft. The articular surfaces of the condyles are natural. The neck of the bone is placed at right angles to the shaft, but is not shorter than normal ; the canals for blood-vessels about its base are unusually large. Some parts of the head and neck present changes exactly similar to those noted in an early stage of rheumatoid arthritis, the bone being smooth and porcellaneous, without growths of nodular osteophytes, and with the worm-eaten appearance so common in this disease. On making a longitudinal section, the first thing noticed was the very soft state of the bone, and the ease with which it might be sawn. The medullary canal is ir- regular in shape, and its calibre is encroached upon by new bone, sometimes of a hard, porcellaneous appearance, and again of a more cancellous nature. The compact tissue is immensely increased in tliickness, and there is a general tendency exhibited to a separation of its constituent laminaa. At about the centre of the shaft, in the anterior portion of the sawn bone, is a small cavity about the size of a nut, which contained a sequestrum of rather hard bone ; similar irregularly shaped