212 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE SPINAL COED AND ITS MEMBRANES. left posterior column, have been cut through below the origin of tlie fourth nerve. A strand of fibres from the fifth nerve passes over the line of incision, and has escaped injury. On the right half of the spine the intervertebral cartilage has been partially divided. 1884 F., R3t. 21. Wounded by knife. Paralysis of motion of trunk, legs, and arms. Can shrug her shouklers. Breathing with diaphragm. Can localise on legs, trunk, and arms, but sensation is impaired. Died with T. of 107°, June 24th. For details see Stanley Ward Booh, vol, x., p. 324, June 24th, 1882. DEGENERATIONS OF THE SPINAL CORD. 2550a. Sections of a Spinal Cord, preserved in celloidin, after hardening in bichro- mate of potassium. The areas of degeneration and the grey matter are of a lighter colour than the healthy white matter. One of the sections shows the tumour and the softened cord, whilst the other four are sections of the cord made at various levels in the cervical region above the seat of lesion. The highest section was carried through the cord at the level of the second pair of cervical nerves. The degenerate tracts are the posterior median, the direct cerebellar, and the ascending antero-lateral, 1889 From a boy, aged 18 years, who had a tumour of the spinal cord, which extended from the eighth to the tenth dorsal vertebrfe. Microscopical sections of the cord are preserved in Series Iv., No. 452. 2550b. Sections of a Cord and Pons, which have been preserved in the same way as the preceding specimen. The posterior two-thirds of the right internal capsule were softened. The sections of the cord commence at the level of the first dorsal nerve. The left crossed pyramidal tract and the right direct cerebellar tract have degen- erated, 1889 Microscopical sections are preserved in Series Iv., No. 460. 2550c. A series of sections of the Spinal Cord, preserved in the same way as the preceding, from a case of fracture of the vertebra prominens and compression of the cord. They show ascending and descending degenerations, which are explained in detail in Series Iv., No, 464. 1889 From a man, aged 54, who lived twenty weeks and four days after a fall which broke his back. Microscopical sections are preserved in Series Iv., No. 464. 2550d. Sections through the Spinal Cord of a Monkey, preserved in the same way as the preceding specimens. A semi-section of the cord had been performed between the seventh and eighth cervical nerves, upon the left side. The sections are amnged to show ascending and descending lesions on the left side. The direct cerebellar tract, the antero-lateral tract, and a small part of the posterior median tract are affected above the lesion. The crossed pyramidal tract is the part chiefly affected below the seat of the injury, 1889 2550e. Sections through the Spinal Cord of a Monkey, preserved in the same way as the preceding specimens. The left posterior roots of the last dorsal and the first three pairs of lumbar nerves were divided about four weeks before death. Tlie resulting degeneration is situated in the posterior region, on the same side as the section. The degeneration is at first diffuse, but it becomes limited to the posterior median column as it ascends. 1889 The five preceding specimens were prepared and presented by Howard Tooth, M,D,