35 DISEASES OP JOINTS. SGOb. A Patella from a case of commencing Osteo-Arthritis occurring in a woman, aged fifty-two. The cartilage covering the upper two-tliirds of the articular surface is fibrillated in such a manner as to form a series of tuft-like projections. At the upper portion of the external facet this process is so advanced as to have led to the entire disappearance of the cartilage, while along the inner border of the internal facet is a distinct " lip " of new bone. 1887 See Female Surgical Register, vol. v. (1887), No. 380. 691a. A Right Knee-Joint, exhibiting the changes typical of Rheumatoid Arthritis. The synovial membrane is thickened and pulpy, the cartilages are fibrous and eroded, and present an uneven irregular surface. The crucial ligaments are partly destroyed, and the other ligaments around the joint are thickened and softened. The bones are eroded and roughened over various parts of the articular surface. 1883 From a man, aged 49, who had sustained an injury in the knee three years before coming to the Hospital. This had resulted in stifEness of the articulation. Three months before the limb was amputated the ankylosis gave way, and the knee yielded so that the bones bulged backwards into the popliteal space, and the front of the leg became concave. A cast of this joint is preserved, No. 33a.—See Pitoairn Ward Booh, vol. vii., p. 425. CHANGES DUE TO OSTEO-ARTHRITIS. 69113. A Right Knee-Joint affected with Osteo-Arthritis, from a patient who had Locomotor Ataxy. 1885 The joint is very much enlarged. The enlargement is due to a thickening and development of the various folds and processes of the synovial membrane, and to an alteration in the shape of the bones. When first opened, the joint contained a considerable quantity of thin pus. The lower end of the femur and the head of the tibia have undergone remarkable alterations in shape. The external condyle of the femur has almost disappeared, its place being appar- ently taken by two irregular nodules of bone, together about the size of a horse-chestnut, lying in the thickened synovial membrane. The internal condyle is remarkalily enlarged, being much flattened from side to side. Near its inner and upper surface is a marked projection caused by the growing out of the bone, and immediately beneath it is a groove formed by the friction of the opposed surface of the head of the tibia. The shape of the lower end of the femur resembles an enormously enlarged external malleolus. At the posterior surface of the internal condyle is a large nodular outgrowth of bone. This latter outgrowth fits into a corresponding cup-shaped surface, formed by an outgrowth from the posterior surface of the tibia. The tibia has undergone a compensatory alteration. The inner part of the head seems to have been rubbed away by the inner surface of the condyle, whilst the outer side of the head takes the place of the wasted external condyle of the femur. To such an extent has this occurred, that the plane of the tibio-femoral articulation, instead of being horizontal, is almost vertical; whilst the only part of the bones which would serve as a support in standing is the ridge on the femur and the surface on the tibia which corresponded with it. The patella has undergone less alteration than the other bones, but is irregular in outline. Its articular surface is covered with cartilage in an advanced stage of degeneration, whilst the bone on this aspect is irregular and pitted. The cartilage has almost completely disappeared from the articular surfaces of the tibia and femur, though patches remain on both bones. The portions of cartilage thus left have under- gone fibrous degeneration. The bone covering the articular surfaces of the tibia and femur is smooth and hard : it forms a continuous layer, but it has disappeared in other parts, and the bone is also pitted and irregular, the cancellous tissue being exposed as in caries. The development of osteophytes in the soft tissues surrounding the joint has taken place to a remarkable extent. The osteophytes are infiltrated in the tissues around the ligamentum patellae and in various parts of the synovial membrane ; they are especially well marked in the portion which covers in and protects the lower edge of the elongated condyle. The edge of the head of the tibia is covered by the overhanging and irregular ridges of bone which are so common in museum specimens of osteo-arthritis. The inner surface of the synovial membrane has developed villous outgrowths, some of which are calcareous, whilst others are still soft, of the kind ordinarily found in cases of "rheumatoid arthritis." The shaft of the femur four inches above the condyles, and the tibia at about the same