135 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE INTESTINES. length. Its walls are thickened by inflammation, and are gangrenous at one spot situated about its middle. It contained the small mass of hardened fasces which is preserved in the next specimen, No. 2032d. 1889 From a boy, aged 16, who had been in his usual health until November 3rd, when he ate some sausage-meat. He vomited shortly after doing so, and suffered great pain in his abdomen ; he had diarrhoea and experienced the greatest pain in his right iliac region. On opening the abdomen, on November 9th, there was evidence of local peritonitis upon the right side, and on examining the large intestines a considerable quantity of pus welled up. The appendix vermiformis was found to be gangrenous, and it was therefore removed together with its contained fsecal concretion. Some days later a median laparotomy was performed in consequence of symptoms pointing to a fresh suppurative peritonitis on the left side. A collection of some ounces of pus was found in a large cavity, bounded by agglutinated intestines. The abscess sac, wliich extended into the pelvic cavity, was drained, and the patient made a complete though somewhat slow recovery. See Transactions of tlw Medico-Ch irurgioal Society, vol. Ixxii., p. 433. See Male Surgical Register, vol. iv. (1889), s. v. A. Searle. 2032d. A small mass of hardened fseces, which was impacted in the upper part of the vermiform appendix, preserved in the previous specimen, No. 2032c. The mass weighs six grains. 1889 INJURY. 2040a. A portion of the Duodenum, exhibiting two large rents with jagged edges, in addition to two small circular apertures. All the injuries were inflicted during the life of the patient, who died collapsed five hours after a blow upon the abdomen. 1886 2040b. A portion of the Descending Colon, showing a large rent in its side. The ruptiire resulted from tension upon the bowel consequent upon strangulation, occurring immediately below an artificial anus which had been made four years previously. The strangulation resulted from a large loop of ileum being forced through the abdominal walls. 1887 From a man, aged 75, upon whom colotomy had been performed for the relief of intestinal obstruction. A few days before his death he took cold, and whilst coughing he felt sometliing give way, and found that a large swelling had appeared just below the artificial anus. A great deal of blood oozed from the swelling, and he suilered greatly from pain. He died two days after the appearance of the tumour. For furtlier details of tire case see The British Medical Journal, vol. i., 1885, p. 1089. Presented by Thomas Simpson, Esq. 2040c. A portion of Jejunum, situated four feet from the end of the duodenum, which had been wounded opposite the attachment of the mesentery. The cut is transverse to the long axis of the intestine, and measures nearly an incli in length. The suture had been introduced during life ; a small amount of fa;cal matter could be squeezed out. The colon just above the sigmoid flexure had also been wounded. 1889 From a man, aged 40, who had received a stab in his abdomen ten hours before his admission to the Hospital. His abdomen was then swollen and tender, and he was in great pain. The wound was situated immediately below the ribs on the left side ; it was three-fourths of an inch long, and a thin blood-stained fluid was oozing from it. The wound was enlarged and the wounded intestine was brought together with Lembert's sutures. The patient died with general peritonitis three days later. Sec Male Surgical Itegister, vol. ii. (1888), No. 2841. 2040d. A portion of the Descending Colon, showing a large rent in its long axis. 1889 From a man, aged .S2, who died shortly after his admission to the Hospital. There was a rent in the middle of his mesentery which extended for a distance of fourteen inches. See Male Surgical Register, vol. iv. (1888), No. 2220 ; and Surgical Post-Mortem Booh for 1888, p. 88. ....