47 INJURIES OF BONES (fRACTURES). In thf>. head of the tibia the external articular surface is on a lower level than the Internal surface, and it slopes backwards in an unusual manner. The section of the tibia shows that the line of the epiphj-sial cartilage slopes downwards beneath the external articular surface. The shaft of the tibia aiipcars to be normal. Microscopical examination of the line of fracture shows that the union is chiefly due to flbrous tissue, which in some parts is still cellular, whilst in others it is firm and dense. Calcification is taking place throughout the line of fracture and beneath the periosteum. There is no appearance of any cartilage. From a man, aged 18. Macewen's operation had been performed upon both femora three months before death. The operation was followed by suppuration and necrosis of the right femur, the left leg healing in the ordinary manner. See Male Surgical Reguter, vol. iii. (1886), No. 3764*. 807d.. A Portion of the Eight Femur and Tibia, showing the condition of parts two years after Macewen's operation of Osteotomy for the relief of Genu Valgum. The result of the operation was unsuccessful, owing to the bad position in which the fragments of the femur united. The femur has been divided somewhat obliquely at a point two and a half inches above the line of the epiphysis, or three and a half inches above the knee- joint, and has united again without the formation of any provisional callus. The lower fragment has slipped up behind the upper fragment in such a manner that a distinct elbow is formed at the point of union between the two. The lower extremity of the upper fragment has become rounded off, so that a great prominence is situated upon the outer side of the femur, marking the point where the bone has been divided. All the articular surfaces at the lower joint are covered by flbrous tissue, resulting from long-standing inflammation, so that the joint is useless. The articular cartilage has everywhere disappeared except over a small portion of the internal condyle of the femur. 1888 From a man, aged 19, who died of pulmonary phthisis. Osteotomy was performed nearly two years before death. When the patient was admitted to the Hospital, the right femur was in a position of adduction and rotation outwards. There was complete union, but the distal end of the upper fragment was closely adherent to a large scar on the outer side of the leg, just above the level of the patella. The proximal end of the lower fragment lay to the outer side of the upper fragment. See Male Surgical Register, vol. iii. (1886), No. 2237 ; Lioke Ward Book for 1886, No. 310 ; 31edical Post-Mortem Booh, vol. xiii., p. 57. 807e. The Bones of the Right Lower Limb of a man who had suffered from Eickets and Genu Valgum. The internal condyle of the femur, measured at the point where the tibia rests upon it, is one-third of an inch longer than the external condyle whilst the inner articular facet of the tibia is raised a little above its fellow. The antero-posterior curvature of the shaft of the femur is exaggerated, the bending being more marked in the lower than in the upper part of the bone. The axis of the femur is bent outwards in its lower third, and is at the same time rotated upon itself, so that the linea aspera is easily seen externally. The neck of the femur forms almost a right angle with the shaft. The external articular facet of the patella is a little larger than usual in proportion to the size of the bone. The upper two-thirds of the tibia seem to be normal, except that at the point where the internal lateral ligament joins the diaphysis there is an irregular bony prominence, with a pair of nipple-like processes which pierce the insertion of the ligament. These projections are below the epiphysial line. The lower third of the tibia is bent strongly inwards, so that the plane of its articular facet is placed obliquely, being largest near the external malleolus. The axis of this portion of the tibia is rotated outwards in such a way that the external malleolus is farther behind the internal than is usual. The convexity of the tibial bend is united to the fibula by bone. The fibula has an inward bend in its lower third, which corresponds to that in the tibia, and the bone itself is in this situation massive and rough. The middle third of its