DISEASES OF JOINfS. 39 720a. Four hundred and fifteen Loose Cartilages removed by operation from the Knee-joint. They are all of irregular shape, with nodulated, uneven surfaces, and vary in size from a swan-shot to an almond, by far the larger number being midway between these two sizes ; the largest and the smallest are suspended at the top of the bottle. Tliey are none of them pedunculated, and were not attached to the synovial membrane. Three of them may be seen to be very nearly divided into two separate portions, which yet remain united by a thin band ; none of the others presented a similar appearance. A cut section is smooth and homogeneous, and a microscopical examination showed that they consisted of hyaline cartilage. 1884 From a man, aged 31, who had had four attacks of! rheumatic fever, while for six years past the knee-joint had been painful and swollen. At the time of the operation the synovial membrane was seen to be rough and vascular-likc granulation tissue, but there were no appear- ances of pedunculated growths. An amputation through the tliigh was subsequently performed. For details of the case see Henry Ward Book, vol. ix., p. 35. 12.\2i,- A Portion of Fibro-Cartilage which was removed from the Knee-Joint by an incision carried along the inner side of the knee. The piece of cartilage measures five-eighths of an inch in length, and one-eighth in thickness. It was firmly attached by one of its ends, and probably formed a portion of the internal semilunar cartilage. 1888 From a man, aged 25, who had felt occasional pain and weakness in his left knee for about a year.' A month before admission to the Hospital he first noticed a loose body on the inner side of the joint. He had more than once wrenched it severely at football and at cricket. See Male Surgical Register, vol. iv. (1888), No. 957 ; see also Transactions of the Patho- logical Society, vol. xxxix., p. 282. 721b. Two Loose Cartilages removed from the Left Knee-Joint. An interval of four weeks elapsed between the removal of the upper and lower cartilage. They are covered with smooth articular (?) cai'tilage on one surface, but are rough and calcareous, if not bony, on the other. They are flat in shape, and the smoother surface is slightly convex. They fit together more or less accurately, and have the appearance of the articular surface of the outer condyle of a femur which has become detached. 1891 The patient was a healthy young man, aged 21. His knee had been rather stiff as long as he could remember. Three days before admission, while running at cricket, he " felt some- thing in his knee give way," and then noticed two lumps in the joint. Pie was admitted, and the two loose bodies were removed, as stated above. He made an excellent recovery. Male Surgical Register, vol. iv. (1890), No. 2331. 722a. A loose Cartilage from a Knee-Joint. It is a precisely similar specimen to 722, which it also resembles in the histological characters of the cartilage. 1881 723a. A Loose Body removed from the Knee-Joint. It is irregular in shape, and closely resembles the ecchondroses wliich occur in the course of osteo-arthritis. The body is roughly pitted on one side, but is smoother and nodulated upon the opposite surface. 1887 725a. A Section through the Left Elbow, from a case in which excision of the Joint had been performed four years previously. The ends of the bones are connected by bands of dense fibrous tissue. The radius and ulna are dislocated forwards upon the humerus. 1888 From a man, aged 41, who had a freely movable joint. See Male Surgical Register, vol. iii. (1887), No. 2024. 729a. The Left Hip-Joint from a Child six years of age, on whom the operation of Excision (removal of the head of the femur) had been performed two years pre- viously. There is a slight rounded eminence at the extremity of the neck, and this