24 DISEASES OF BONES. bone. It appears to have commenced at the junction of the diaphysis with the lower epiphysis, and to be subperiosteal in origin. The medullary canal is completely obHterated. 1889 From a girl, aged 13 years, who was at the Bluecoat School, Hertford. Eleven months before her death she noticed a slight pain and stiffness in the left knee after a long walk. Three months later the knee became swollen, and shortly afterwards an enlarged and densely hard gland made its appearance in her groin. The thigh was amputated in its middle third, and a month later the enlarged gland was removed. A mass of new growth was shortly afterwards detected in the pel-vis, and a month before her death there were symptoms of secondary deposit in the lungs. See Female Surgical Register, vol. i. (1888), No. 978. The lung is preserved in Series xi., No. 1728b, and a drawing of it in Series Ivii., No. 273. A microscopical section of the new growth in the knee is preserved in Series Iv., No. 60, and a section of the secondary deposit in the lung in Series Iv., No. 176. See also Transactions of the Pathological Society, vol. xL, p. 293. 480b. A Section through the Left Os Innominatum and Femur, from the same case as the preceding. Amputation through the thigh had been performed three months and a half previously. A large mass of ossified sarcomatous tissue is seen to occupy the iliac fossa. The shaft of the femur is extremely thin, whilst the medulla is infiltrated with a caseous material. The bones of the pelvis were so much softened that they could be cut with a knife. 1889 480c. A Section of a Lymphatic Gland, removed from the Groin of the Patient from whom the two preceding specimens were obtained. It is infiltrated with an ossifying sarcoma to such an extent that it appears to be a mass of bone. It was so firmly attached to the femoral vessels that a portion of the femoral vein had to be removed with it, and is still seen on its posterior surface. 1889 480d. A Section through a Rib, showing an infiltration of Ossifying Sarcoma at the junction of the shaft with the costal cartilage. The bone is destroyed to a much greater extent than the cartilage, and the new growth has clearly developed from the periosteum. 1889 480e. Section through a Clavicle, showing an infiltration of the sternal end with an Ossifying Sarcoma. The growth springs from the periosteum, but it has also extended for some distance along the medulla. 1889 From the same patient as the five preceding specimens. 480f. Section of the Upper Portion of a Tibia, surrounded by an Ossifying Sarcoma which grew from the periosteum. The bone has been macerated to show the method in which the ossification has taken place. The bony particles form a number of laminte, set at right angles to the axis of the bone, and extending for a distance of three-quarters of an inch from the shaft. Microscopically the tumour is a I'ound-celled sarcoma. 1889 From a boy, aged 11 years, who was admitted into the Chichester Infirmary complaining of deep-seated pain in his tibia, which had existed for a period of six months. Presented by T. Valentine, Esq. 480g'. A Section of the opposite Half of the preceding Tibia. It has not been macerated, and the bony laminte are therefore not so well seen. 1889 481 a. A Section through the Lower Half of a Feram-, to show the manner in which its condylar portion has been invaded by a new growth, which is apparently sarcomatous in character. The tumour extends over the outer and external portions of the femur for a distance of four inches from the condyles. It projects for two inches beyond the outer limit of the femur, and of this projection one inch nearest to the bone is calcified, whilst the inch immediately beneath the periosteum is a soft tissue, wliich readily breaks down. The growth infiltrates the cancellous