SERIES I. DISEASES OF BOIES. ATROPHY. l a. A SkuU-Cap, the inner surface of which is extremely irregular, thinned, and finely porous, from the number of minute vessels by which it is perforated. The parietal Bones are perforated by three irregular openings, with thin edges, upon either side of the Sagittal Suture ; Pacchionian bodies probably were situated in these open- ings. The external surface of the Skull on either side of the Sagittal Suture presents a chalky appearance, and the bone is perforated by the foramina of numerous minute vessels. 1881 (In Case E.) From a female, aged 28 years ; there was no evidence of syphilis.—See Post-Mortvm Booh, vol. viii., p. 161. lb. Portion of a Calvaria which has undergone considerable thickening. The outer table of the parietal bone has a circular porous patch in it. The inner table is everywhere roughened from a deposit of new bone. The Skull-cap was very adherent to the dura mater, and the surface of the latter was much roughened by the development of fibrin. It was very thick, but its under surface was natural. The other meninges and the brain were normal. 1888 (In Case E.) From a bricklayer, aged (58, who had pericarditis and chronic pachymeningitis. He fell a distance of eleven feet, striking the left side of his head, about a fortnight before his death. Two years previously he was struck on the left eye by a piece of scafEolding, and was laid up for six months. See Male Surgical Register for the Ophthalmic Wards (1888), s.v. Ed. Barney. 1C. The Tibio-Tarsal Bones of a Mongrel Pigeon—Fantail Tumbler—aged two years at the time of its death. The right tibio-tarsus presents an united fracture, situated in the middle of its length. The date of the injury was unknown, but most of the provisional callus seems to have been absorbed. The interesting feature in the case seems to be the fibula, which is hypertrophied both as regards length and breadth. It is firmly united to the distal fragment. In the fresh state, the bony union of it with the distal fragment was much strengthened by very dense and thick fibrous bands, extending from the fibula itself to the spicula of bone now seen on the distal fragment, and it seems to have acted as a splint during the union of the Tibio-Tarsus. The uninjured Tibio-Tarsus of the opposite side is preserved for comparison. 1889 Presented by A. G-. Francis, Esq. Id. A Calvaria, showing numerous patches of erosion upon its inner surface. Tlie patches are longest and best marked on the parietal J^ones immediately behind the level of the tuberosities. They are tolerably symmetrical, and appear to be due to a deficiency of the inner table of the bone. As a result of this deficiency, the cancellous structure of the diploe is exposed in the form of a number of bony processes set vertically in the outer table like the teeth of a comb. The outline of B