DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE LARYNX AND TRACHEA. 1632a. A Larynx showing the effects of Tubercular Disease. The mucous membrane is generally roughened and papillated, much increased in thickness, and completely hides the vocal cords, which appear to be buried in its folds. The efiiglottis and the arytajno-epiglottidean folds share in the general thickening. There appears to be a very superficial ulceration in various parts, most marked at the upper end of the trachea. 1884 The patient was a young man who died with general tuberculosis. He had suffered from aphasia for some time before his death. 1633b. A Larynx and Trachea from a patient who died of tubercular phthisis. The rima glottidis is much narrowed by the swollen and oedematous condition of the arytfeno-epiglottidean folds, the mucous membrane of which, however, is not ulcerated. The under surface of the epiglottis and the mucous membrane lining the larynx and trachea is extremely roughened and granular. 1883 1633c. The Glottis and a portion of the Trachea of a patient who died from tubercular phthisis. There are numerous scattered ulcers on the inter-arytaenoid fold and in the portion of the trachea which lies immediately beneath the glottis. 1886 1633d.. The Larynx from a case of tubercular phthisis. There is a deep circum- scribed symmetrical ulcer of the processus vocales ; the ulcer on the left side is the deeper. 1886 The phthisis was of about fifteen months' duration ; there were no laryngeal symptoms during life ; the ulcers were probably of recent origin. 1633e. The Glottis of a patient who died with tubercular phthisis, The whole cavity of the larynx is ulcerated, the ulceration being deeper upon the left side. The vocal cords are destroyed. 1886 The three preceding specimens were presented by Percy Kidd, M.D, TUBERCULAR ULCERATION OF THE TRACHEA. 1633f. The Larynx and a portion of the Trachea from a man, aged forty-two, whq died of tubercular phthisis. The whole of the mucous membrane lining the trachea is occupied by numerous circular ulcers, which extend to a considerable depth. The supraglottic portion of the larynx is free from ulceration. 1887 See Medical Post-Mortem Booh, vol. xiii., p. 46. 1633^. The Right Half of a Larynx, showing thickening and a pachydermatous condition of the cords, due to tubercular disease. 1891 Presented by A. A. Kanthack, M.D. ULCERATION OF ENLARG-ED GLAND INTO TRACHEA. 1633h. The Larynx and Trachea of a Child. Just above the bifurcation an enlarged lymphatic gland has become adherent to, and has ulcerated into, the trachea, causing death by suffocation. 1891 The patient was a little girl, aged four. She had been subject to attacks of spasmodic laryngitis. She was seized with a violent attack of dyspnoea, and died rapidly from asphyxia. Presented by Alexander Harper, M.D. 1634a. The Larynx of an Adult, laid open from behind : it shows patches of leucoplakia on the epiglottis, on the right vocal cord, and on the right arytajno- epiglottic fold. This is a very rare condition. 1891 1634b. The Larynx of a Drunkard, laid open from behind, showing the thickening and induration of the vocal cords which occurs in persons addicted to drink. 1891 This, with the preceding specimen, was presented by A. A. Kanthack, M.D.