DISEASES OF BONES. 26 MULTILOCULAR CYSTIC EPITHELIOMA OF THE LOWER JAW. 535a. A Portion of the Left Half of an Inferior Maxilla remoTed by operation. The whole of the body and the greater part of the ramus is occupied by a new growth, which appears to have originated in the substance of the bone itself. The two bicuspid teeth are firmly fixed in their normal position ; the first and second molars are absent, but the wisdom-tooth is thrust upwards by the growth, so that it now occupies the base of the expanded coronoid process. The body of the jaw is distended by a tumour, which has thinned and destroyed the compact bone. The growth protrudes both externally and internally, and in the former position has infiltrated the masseter muscle. The section of the body of the jaw shows that the tumour extends as far forward as the canine tooth. The growth is soft and friable, in parts cystic, with its anterior portion definitely encapsuled. In the recent state these cysts contained a brownish blood-stained fluid. Microscopical examination shows that the tumoirr is a cystic epithelioma. The bone is infiltrated with masses of epithelial cells, which are breaking down in their centre so as to form cavities. The stroma consists of connective tissue. 1887 The patient, a married woman, aged 29, had been admitted five years previously on account of a tumour which had grown for seven and a lialf years on the site of a left lower molar tooth. The tumour was removed by cutting away an outer shell of bone and subsequently gouging out the growth. On re-admission to the Hospital, the left side of the inferior maxilla was found to be very much swollen immediately above the scar resulting from ihe previous operation. The swelling extended on to the alveolar border of the jaw in such a manner that when the jaws were closed the growth covered the outer aspect of the upper molar teeth, whilst it extended for more than an inch and a half on the inner side of the jaw towards the middle line. The growth was ulcerating at the time when the excision was performed. After the operation the patient made a good recovery. Sections are preserved in Series Iv., No. 70. See Transactions of the Pathological Society, vol. xxxviii., p. 359, and Female Surgical Register, vol. iii. (1886), No. 423. 535b. The greater part of the Right Side of the Inferior Maxilla, removed by opera- tion on account of a large tumour which occupies the posterior portion of the body, and extends upwards into the ramus as far as the sigmoid notch. The bone was sawn through just behind the mental foramen, and disarticulated from the temporal bone ; its interior is greatly expanded by the growth, a thin shell of bone only remaining on the outer side, while on the inner side the bony covering has been broken away. The interior of the expanded bone was occupied by soft and pulpy material, which gave way during the operation. 1893 The patient was a man, aged 28, who had noticed a swelling in the jaw for two and a half years. He made a good recovery, and left the hospital eighteen days after the operation. Microscopical examination showed that the growth consisted of masses of epithelium, infiltrating the bone and breaking down to form cysts ; there were no " cell nests." See Male Surgical Register, vol. iv. (1891), No. 1514. 539a. A Dentigerous Cyst. A part only of the cyst-wall has been preserved ; but attached to its inner surface may be seen a permanent central incisor. A portion of the bone and of the cyst-wall attached to it is suspended in the upper part of the bottle. 1884 From a boy, aged eight years. 541a. The Left Lower Jaw of an Ox, showing extensive disease, caused by Actinomyces Bovis. The specimen has been macerated and presents a very reticulated appearance. The general outline of the bone is much enlarged, and considerable cavities exist where the bony matter has been eaten away. The greater part of the internal alveolus has been entirely destroyed. The diseased part is confined to the region of the molar teeth, the sockets of which, as well as the fangs