251 DISEASES OF THE UTEEUS. seen on the outer border. The bladder was black and gangrenous throughout its whole thickness, and the upper part of the urethra is greatly dilated. 1888 From a woman, aged 24. who was four months pregnant. A mass of adhesions, which was felt during life to the right of the uterus, prevented its replacement even after the induction of abortion, which was effected twelve clays before the death of the patient. At the post- mortem examination these adhesions were found to be between the transverse colon, the great omentum, and some small intestines which were fixed to the bladder and to the upper and anterior surfaces of the right broad ligament. See Martha Ward Booh for 1887, and Transactions of the Obstetrical Society for 1888, vol. XXX., p, 5. 2952a. An Uterus and Douglas's Pouch. The latter is occupied by the two ovaries, which are prolapsed and adherent to each other ; to the uterus in front, and the peritoneum behind. The right ovary appears the more extensively bound down by adhesions. It is, therefore, probable that the infiauimation commenced in its neigh- bourhood ; and the left ovary being prolapsed, became adherent at the point of contact. 1884 From a woman, aged 50, whose youngest child was aged fourteen years. No further history could be obtained. HJEMATOMETRA. 2956a. A Vertical Section of a large Hsematometra. The whole uterus, when empty, weighed fifteen pounds. Its vertical height, measured parallel to the broad liga- ments, was ten inches. Its depth, antero-posteriorly, was twelve inches, and its transverse diameter was ten inches. The tumour was divided into two parts by the broad ligaments, the origins of the Fallopian tubes being seven inches apart. The posterior portion is the cavity of the uterus enormously enlarged ; it was filled with retained blood, much of which was of the consistence of mortar. The anterior portion of the tumour is apparently solid ; it forms about two-thirds of the whole mass. The surface of the posterior part resembles an uterus in an advanced stage of pregnancy. The surface of the anterior part is fibroid, and is covered with adhesions. The left Fallopian tube is much thickened, and it is dilated in its outer part. It measures twelve inches in length, and contained blood. The left ovary is much elongated ; it measures three inches in length, and contains a single cyst at its outer extremity. The right ovaiy and a large portion of the Fallopian tube are absent, but they were apparently identical with the left. On making a section of the uterus, the anterior portion was seen to consist of a large tumour, measuring seven inches in its antero-posterior diameter. It is everywhere encapsuled by the wall of the uterus, except posteriorly, where the cavity of the tumour opens into the cavity of the uterus by an oval and well-marked aperture, measuring five inches in its vertical, and three and a half inches in its transverse diameter. This opening is formed by the wall of the uterus, which is two and a half inches in thickness at this part below, and one and a quarter inches above. It is crossed by a ridge of hard coagulated blood, half ,an inch in thickness. Immediately beneath the capsule is a layer of calcareous deposit. The tumour itself cannot apparently be separated from its muscular capsule at any point. The tumour is of a red fleshy appearance, and the whole of its central portion has broken down, forming a large irregular cavity completely filled with putty-like blood. The cavity of the uterus measures ten inches in length by four inches in depth. The tumour is a fibro-myoma, the external firmer parts containing more muscular tissue than the internal softening parts. The outer layers are calcified to a considerable extent. The cause of hsemorrhage was not discovered. The tumour presents the appearances found in ordinary mucoid softening. 1887 [In the first Gallery, in a flat case,] From a woman, aged 46. The tumour had been growing for twelve years, and the patient had sufEered from menorrhagia until three and a half years previous to removal, when the s