60 DISEASES AND DEFORMITIES OF THE SPINE. 1094a. An Atlas and Axis. The odontoid process has been dislocated in such a manner as to leave only a very narrow space for the spinal cord, and the bones have subsequently become ankylosed. 1887 They were found in a graveyard at Aberdeen, and are described by Sir James Paget in the Medico-CMrurgieal Transactions, vol. xxxi. (1848). The specimen was formerly catalogued as No. 1152. Presented by George Banks, Esq. 1103a. A Portion of the Cervico-Dorsal Spine, in which the bodies of the vertebraj, from the second to the fifth dorsal inclusive, are extensively affected by tubercular disease, and have fallen together in such a way as to form a single mass. A well- marked angular curvature of the spine has been a result of this fusion of the bodies. There is a large collection of thick cheesy pus at the front and sides of the diseased vertebra^ and a similar collection of pus projects backwards into the vertebral canal, though the cord, as is seen in the opposite half of the specimen, is not actually compressed by it. The vertebras above the seat of injury appear to be healthy. ] 889 From a child, aged eight years, who was suffering from hip-joint disease, and who died of tubercular caries, tubercular peritonitis, and tuberculosis of the kidney. There were no symptoms of compression of the spinal cord during life. The other half of the specimen is in the Museum of the Koyal Free Hospital. The hip-joint is preserved in Series ii., No. 627a. Obtained in exchange from the Museum of the Royal Free Hospital. 1118a. Skeleton of a young Cock Fowl, var. Plymouth Rock, which was hatched in an incubator, and was subsequently brought up in an artificial " foster-mother." The sacrum presents a well-marked lateral curvature to the left, but otherwise tlie bird appears to be well-formed. The brood to which it belonged first limped and then lost the power of walking. 1888 (In Case G.) Presented by Clement Godson, M.D., per Alfred Willett, Esq. 1131a. Portions of the sixth, seventh, eighth, and ninth Dorsal Vertebra?, to which are attached the Heads of the corresponding Ribs. A longitirdinal section has been made through the bones-, showing considerable softening and compression of the body of the seventh vertebra, due to a secondary deposit of scirrhous cai'cinoma ; there is narrowing of the neural canal. In the upper part of the body of the eighth vertebra is a similar deposit, but the shape of the bone is not altered. There is also a large mass in the head and neck of the eighth rib. The primary disease was in the mammary gland. 1891 The patient was a woman, aged 43, whose right breast had been removed one year before her death for scirrhous carcinoma. There was a return in the scar of the operation wound, and numerous other deposits in the lungs, pleura, and liver. Some months before death para- plegia occurred. She died from pleurisy. Microscopical sections of portions of the decalcified bones are preserved in Series Iv., No. 99. See also Medical Post-Mortem Regider, vol. xviii., p. 30. 1131b. The Right Half of the second, third, fourth and fifth Cervical Vertebraj, from a case of primary Carcinoma of the Thyroid Gland. The bodies of the vertebras have been sawn through longitudinally, and show a secondary deposit of carcinoma, which has almost completely replaced the body of tlie fifth vertebra, and has caused absorption of tlie disc between it and the body of the fourth. It also encroached on the canal, and gave rise to symptoms of pressure on the spinal cord. 1891 From the same case as Specimen No. 2318b. in Series xxvi., to which refer for details of the case. Microscopical sections of the vertebrse are preserved in Series Iv., No. 100.