SERIES XLVI. DISEASES AITD IIJTJRIES IICIDESTAL TO &ESTATIOS AO PAE,TUB,ITIOI[. 3066a. A Foetus, about the third month of intra-uterine life, compressed and dis- torted, measuring two and a half inches in length. The attitude appears to be the result of prolonged pressure from repeated uterine contractions occurring after its death. The amnion is enormously thickened by a substance resembling the gelatine of Wharton. The placental portion of the membranes is of a pale yellow colour. 1888 Presented by W. S. A. Griffith, M.D. 3071a. An Uterus and its Appendages, from a case of Tubal pregnancy. The right Fallopian tube is distended at the outer extremity by the development of an embryo within it. The cyst containing the foetus has a large ragged opening about one inch and a quarter long on its upper part, the surrounding tissues are stained with blood ; the foetus is of about five weeks growth. There is no marked enlargement of the uterus, and its lining membrane is not hypertrophied. 1882 From a woman, who thought herself four months' pregnant. She was seen at Stirling Infirmary, where she complained of losing blood, per rectum, for some time ; she was very ansemic. Death ensued thirty-six hours after admission ; a large quantity of clotted blood was found in the abdomen. The foetus had probably died some months earlier, and the uterus had undergone the process of involution. Presented by J. Matthews Duncan, M.D., F.R.S. 3072a. Tubal Fcetation of the right Fallopian Tube, which occasioned death by its rupture, and the formation of a pelvic hjematocele. The uterus is enlarged, and the canal is occluded by a plug of gelatinous mucus. Both ovaries contain small cysts scattered throughout their substance. 1881 Presented by Clement Godson, M.D. 3072b. Uterus and Ovaries, showing an early tubal pregnancy. The right Fallopian tube is seen to be dilated at a point near to the uterus. The sac measures three quarters of an inch in length ; it is thinner at its upper and anterior surface, thicker posteriorly. On its posterior surface is a small aperture marking the seat of rupture. The sac contains a little shreddy debris, which may be the remains of the chorionic villi. The uterus measures three and a quarter inches externally and two and three quarter inches internally. There is a decidua vera, and the cervix is plugged with mucus. No obstruction was found in the Fallopian tubes. 1885 F., fet. 28, who had missed one menstrual period. She was suddenly seized with great abdominal pain. When seen, she was pallid but conscious ; the abdomen was slightly dis- tended and tender ; the vagina was inverted round the cervix. The patient died from bsemorrhage into the abdomea fifteen hours after the first symptoms, Presented by F. W. Strugnell, Esq.