120 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE PHARYNX AND (ESOPHAGUS. The external bleeding was easily controlled by means of a pad, but the patient gradually sank, and died about twelve hours after the injury. At the post-mortem examination it was found that the facial vein, now marked by a silk ligature, and the superior thyroid artery had both been severed, and that the escaping blood passed through the internal opening of the wound into the oesophagus and was swallowed. See Surgieal Post-Mortem Register for 1890, p. 18. 1867b. The Oesophagus and Trachea with a Portion of the Stomach of a girl who swallowed a marble. The oesophagus is ulcerated for about an inch immediately above the cardiac orifice, and it was so much softened that its wall gave way as soon as it was removed from the body, leaving a large ragged opening, through which passed the small black marble seen in the preparation. 1889 From a girl, aged four years, who had swallowed a marble three days before death. In- effectual efforts were made to dislodge it from the oesophagus. See Female Surgical Register, vol. i. (1888), No. 1G79. 1869a,. A Vulcanite Tooth-Plate, with three artificial teeth and four sharp hooks attached, which was swallowed, and remained in the oesophagus for three months. 1890 The patient was admitted into the Hospital shortly after the accident, and attempts were made to remove the plate, but unsuccessfully. After a few days he left the Hospital at his own desire, but returned again at the end of three months. On the second occasion the plate was removed by means of a pair of forceps. See Male Surgical Register, vol. i. (1889), No. 1703. Presented by Mr. W. S. Langford. 1869b. A Similar Specimen, removed under chloroform by means of a long curved pair of forceps shortly after it had been swallowed. It had remained fixed in the oesophagus at about the level of the cricoid cartilage, 1890 See Mule Surgical Register, vol. iv. (1890), No. 960, 1869g. a Halfpenny which was partially swallowed by a child four years of age, and was removed from the pharynx by means of curved forceps after having been firmly impacted there for eight days, 1892