ABNOKMAL CONDITIONS OF THE GENERATIVE ORGANS. 347 3671a. Testis, showing a fibrous body attached to the middle and under surface of the hydatid of Morgagni; it is white and glistening, luird to the touch, and firmly fixed. Some of its fibres can be traced to the root of the corpus Morgagni. The body appears to be the remains of that part of the Wolffian body which, in the embryo, lies between Miiller's duct and the upper body of the testis. To the other testicle a similar body was attached. 1884 For an account of this specimen see also the Journal of Anatomy ami Physiology, so\. xvii., p. 538. Presented by W. S. Kichmond, Esq. ih.) In the Female. 3673a. An Uterus Bicorporeus, with single cervix. 1885 From a patient, aged 40, mother of ten children. Further details and plate will be found in the Ohstetfiml Society's Transactions, vol. xxvi. (1884), p. 184. Presented by J. Matthews Duncan, M.D., F.R.S. 3673b. Deciduous fleshy substance, whole at the time of expulsion, which took place thirty hours after delivery of the patient whose uterus is preserved in the preceding specimen. 1885 A similar substance had been voided at each of the eight previous labours. UTERUS UNICORPOREUS ET VAGINA DUPLEX. 3673c. An Uterus, with its Appendages. The upper part of the vagina is divided by an antero-posterior septum into two channels of nearly equal capacity. The mucous membrane is continuous on both sides of the septum with that lining the rest of the two vaginas. At the upper part of the vaginal cavities the septum stops abruptly ; there is only one cervix and one os. Both sides of the broad ligament are studded with small nodular, more or less pedunculated growths, and the ovaries are involved and affected in a similar way. Microscopical examination showed these to be carcinomatous in character, probably arising in the ovaries. Other portions of the peritoneum, especially that covering the under surface of the liver (see Series xvi., No. 1886d) were also extensively involved. 1892 The patient was a girl, aged 15. Microscopical sections of the carcinomatous nodules are preserved in Series Iv., No. 244a. See Medical Post-Moriem Register, vol. xvii., p. 280. UTERUS WITH RUDIMENTARY RIGHT CORNU. 3674a. An Uterus, the right cornu of which is rudimentary and solid, and is united to the middle of the right border of the well-developed left cornu. The right round ligament, ovarian ligament, and Fallopian tube are attached to the apex of the ill- developed cornu. The left Fallopian tube, ovary, and round ligament are attached to the apex of the left cornu. 1890 2 A