329 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE AXIS. The spinal cord enters tlie sac and passes over its posterior part in the middle hne, and terminates by again entering the spinal canal. The filum terminale can be traced into the lowest part of the sacrum. Several of the nerves originating from that part of the cord which lay within the sac passed across the cavity. A glass rod has been passed into the central canal of the spinal cord. 1889 From a male child, aged two weeks, in whom the spina bifida had been injected with Morton's fluid two days before death. During life the femora could not be extended beyond a right angle, and this condition is seen in the specimen to persist even after removal of all the muscles and division of the ligaments. The heads of the femora point almost directly forwards instead of inwards, and by locking against the acetabula, extension is prevented. See Male Surgical Begister, vol. iii. (1888), No. 2684. 3480. The lumbar and sacral spine of an infant with a Spina Bifida. The centre of the membranous portion of the sac-wall has been destroyed by sloughing, the result of treatment. The lower portion of the spinal cord projects backwards from the vertebral canal and presents with some of the nerve roots within the opened sac. With the exception of the failure in the arches, the vertebras appear in other respects to be normal. 1886 See Sltrvell Ward Book, vol. v., p. 147 ; and Eeport of the Committee on spina bifida in the Clinical Society's Iransactions, vol. xviii., Case No. 19. SPINA BIFIDA AND CONGENITAL TALIPES. 3480a. The lower half of the body of a foetus at full term, with a sloughing spina bifida in the lumbo-sacral region and extreme varus of both feet. The astragalus of the right foot has been exposed in such a manner as to show that its articulating surfaces have become considerably modified. 1885 The dissection was made by S. G. Shattock, Esq., who has described the specimen in the Transactions of the Pathological Society, 1884, Case 6, vol. xxxv., p. 423. 34801). The dorsal, lumbar, and sacral vertebri* of a child who had a spina bifida. The laminte and spinal processes of the vertebra? between the tenth dorsal and lower sacral are wanting. The skin over this region has sloughed, and the lumbar portion of the cord, together with the cauda equina is exposed. This occurred some time before death, and the different structures have become adherent to one another as a result of inflammation. The child lived for three weeks. Both feet were in a condition of talipes equino-varus. 1890 See Female Surgical Register, vol. v. (1889), No. 2391. 3483. The parts concerned in a Sacro-coccygeal Meningocele after loss of the sac- wall. From a child about six years old. The extremity of the cord and the cauda equina, occupying the lower portion of the neural canal, are completely exposed : the conus medullaris terminates in a filament, which presents a gangiiform enlarge- ment two milHmetres in its shorter diameter near its lower end. The lowest nerve- roots are furnished with " ganglia aberrantia." The aperture is bounded by an irregular ulcerated margin of skin. 1886 See the Eeport of the Committee on spina bifida. Transactions of the Clinical Society, vol. xviii.. No. 6. 3485. A specimen of Spina Bifida in the lumbo-sacral region with considerable distortion of the pelvis and lumbar spine. A process of bone extends from before backwards completely across the vertebral canal immediately above the deficiency. This process of bone perforates the spinal cord, which appears to re-unite below. The cord terminates in a flattened expansion which rests upon a mass of fat on the inner aspect of the dura mater. The nerves come oiS irregularly from the front of the expansion. Above its perforation the cord presents a greatly dilated central