SERIES LI. VAEIOTJS IlfSTRTJIElfTS AID SUBSTANCES PRODTJCII[& IlfJTJEIES. 3383a. Cast of a Stone, removed from an abdominal cavity. 1886 A sailor, aged 45, of good health, had suffered from stricture of the urethra for some years, and for the consequent retention had been in the habit of passing a glass bottle, three inches in diameter, up the rectum, and usually gained relief from it. One day (June 13th) retention of urine came on, and not having his bottle at hand, a belaying pin was passed into the bowel without having the desired effect. He then went on shore, and picking up a pebble the size of the cast, he oiled it and passed it into his bowel. He relieved his distress by riding ; but next day he began to feel inconvenience, and a physician was called in, who made ineffectual attempts to remove the stone. One of the many measures was the bending of a piece of flat iron into the shape of a pair of forceps, with which attempts at extraction were made. During this operation it is supposed that the intestine was ruptured, and he now began to suffer acute pain. On the 15th the vessel sailed for Boston, and at 2 p.m. on the 17th, Dr. William Thorndike, of the City Hospital, saw the patient. His general appearance was at that time one of intense suffering. The abdomen was quite tumid and painful, with vomiting and hiccough. The rectum was considerably dilated, and on passing the hand into it a laceration was felt some six inches from the anus. By passing in the hand as far as the elbow the stone could be touched, but it could not be felt by the hand externally. Abdominal section was immediately performed, and the stone most easily removed through an incision to the left of the median line. It lay loose amongst the coils of intestine, and some ounces of a bloody serum were removed at the same time. The vessel sailed on June 19th, and the patient was removed to the City Hospital, where he remained till July 15th. He then dis- charged himself without leave. He was heard of to the effect that the last stitch came away from the wound about the middle of August, and he subsequently recovered so far that he was able to work in a factory. Vide Pathological Catalogue, R. C. S., vol. i., pp. 55, 56. Presented by the Royal College of Surgeons of England. 3384a,. A Percussion Cap, enclosed in a capsule of connective tissue. 1887 The cap was removed from the palmar surface of the left middle finger of a girl, aged 19, a maker of ammunition. It had remained hi situ for two months. As soon as an incision was made into the tumour, the foreign body was expelled with considerable violence. 3384b. A small Piece of Drainage Tube, which was removed from a sinus in the neck, where it had remained for three years and a quarter. The wound healed for eighteen months, but it then suppurated, and continued to discharge until the time of removal of the foreign body. 1888 From a tailoress, aged 28. See Female Surgical Register, vol. iii. (1888), No. 555. 3384c. A Piece of Slate-Pencil, removed from the calf of the leg of a girl, aged eighteen. Seven years previously the patient ran the piece of slate-pencil into her leg, and it was not extracted. Three months before she came under observation a small abscess formed over the point of entrance, but it subsequently healed. 1889