45 INJURIES OF BONES (fRACTURES). 761a. A Calvaria of a man who shot himself with a revolver. The piece of bone attached to the lower part of the specimen was driven in before the bullet, and lay with it in the third ventricle of the left side. The sldn of the scalp is preserved in Series xxxv., No. 2734:a. 1884 (In Case H.) 761b. A Calvaria showing a gunshot wound. . 1885 (In Case H.) Patient survived ten days after injury : a hernia cerebri formed. See Male Surgical Register, vol. iii. (1885), No. 1163. 761c. A Calvaria, showing the apertures of ingress and egress of a bullet which passed through it transversely. The aperture of ingress, situated at the end of the coronal suture, is small and round; that of egress, in the left parietal bone, is larger and irregular, the bone being broken away externally. 18"^8 (In Case H.) From a man, ag;ed 39, a compositor by trade, who thought that he had a mission " to set the Book of Life." The wound was self-inflicted, and the patient died six hours after the injury. See Male Surgical Register, vol. iv. (1888), s.v. H. Gr. Agnew. 763a- Portions of Three Eight Ribs, with the corresponding Vertebra\ There is a comminuted fracture of the ninth rib between the angle and the articular end, produced by a conical pistol bullet, which is seen in situ. It had not penetrated the muscles of the back. Above, portions of the skin and muscles, from the anterior wall of the thorax, are susjDended ; a glass rod is inserted into an oblique channel through which the bullet entered the chest, between the fifth and sixth ribs. The right lung, which was penetrated by the ball, is preserved in Series xi., No. 1759a. 1881 The patient was about fifteen yards from the man who shot him. On admission to the Hospital he ^Yas collapsed ; blood and air entered and welled out from the bullet wound during inspiration and expiration ; there was only slight hffimoptysis,but great dyspnoea. He survived the injury three days. See Henry Ward Booh, vol. viii., p. 82. 783a. One Half of a Child's Femur, which was fractured one month before the cliild died. The periosteum is greatly thickened in the neighbourhood of the fracture, and beneath it, on the posterior surface of the bone, there is a very considerable deposit of provisional callus, exiending along the shaft in both directions for nearly two inches. Black bristles have been inserted between the fragments, and show that there has been some displacement of the lower fragment backwards. 1890 796a. Portion of a Tibia which has undergone a Comminuted Fracture. The fracture has been partially repaired, and during the process the posterior tibial vessels and nerve have become involved. 1885 From the dissecting-rooms. Presented by F. Swinford Edwards, Esq. . 807a. The Left Knee-Joint seventeen months after the performance of Ogston's operation of chiselling through the Internal Condyle of the Femur for the relief of Genu Valgum. 1885 The scar of the operation was visible in the skin and muscles at a point about two and a half inches above the articular border of the internal condyle. The tibio-femoral articulation is more posterior than in a normal limb. The patella has only a single facet upon its under surface ; it lies wholly upon the external condyle of the femur, and is loosely connected by a few inflammatory adhesions with the upper part of the external condyle. The adhesions do not interfere with the movements of the joint. The superior articular surface of the tibia lies in a horizontal line, whilst its shaft is curved to such an extent as to render its,convex surface internal. There are two well-marked ridges