DISEASES OF BONES. 15 pounds. Microscopically it was blurred and indistinct, with a slight infiltration of amyloid material. The kidneys were large and pale; they presented the appearance of catarrhal nephritis with commencing amyloid degeneration in the glomeruli. In the posterior wall of the pharynx, immediately above the upper opening of the oesophagus, was a considerable amount of cicatricial tissue. See Male Surgical Register, vol. v. (1886), No. 2691*. 312b. The Right Humerus from the same case as the preceding. The articular cartilage of the head is thinned in almost its whole extent, and is of a bluish colour. On the posterior aspect of the head, near the anatomical neck, is a deeply-cut groove, extending for an inch or more towards the centre, after which it turns towards the great tuberosity, and ramifies over the greater part of the posterior surface of the head. The posterior portion of the articular surface looks as if portions of cartilage had been gouged away, so as to leave irregular tracts with crescentic margins. Islands of cartilage here and there remain intact. At those parts where the cartilage is most deeply destroyed the ulceration has involved the Bone, and it has undergone the same gouging process as the cartilage. Crossing the bone, and closely attached to it, is a thin membranous layer. When this is peeled off the bone is found to be rough and softer than usual. Micro- scopically this membrane is cellular, and is continuous with the synovial membrane. It fades gradually as it approaches the centre of the cartilage. The cartilage capsules are larger than usual, the cells are multiplying, and the matrix is fibrillating. The synovial membrane is more vascular, and is thicker than usual, but otherwise it appears to be normal. Tlie shaft is thickened and misshapen by the deposit of porous new bone. The new bone is in parts tolerably firm, but in other parts is soft and crumbling. Beneath the periosteum in some parts are seen deposits of inspissated pus. The lower two-thirds of the shaft are more affected than the upper third. 1886 A section is preserved in Series Iv., No. 26. 312C. The Head of the Left Humerus from the same case as the preceding specimens. The articular cartilage is thinned over a large extent of its surface, the thinning being less marked at the centre than towards the circumference. The thinner portions are of a bluish colour. At the lateral and posterior margins of the head, near the anatomical neck, are deeply excavated tracts. The lateral excavation commences at the margin of the head and extends forwards towards the centre of the articular surface. The base of the excavation is covered by a fibrillated membrane, which is continuous with the thickened synovial membrane of the joint. A process of the synovial membrane extends forwards and accurately fits into the excavated surface, though it is not adherent to it. The excavation on the posterior surface of the head is more irregular, and has exposed roughened bone. From the lower portion of this surface the excavation extends downwards for a short distance along the shaft into the substance of the bone itself. The synovial membrane is thickened and fringed as in cases of osteo-arthritis. 1886 312d.. The Right Knee-Joint from the same case has undergone very much the same changes as those described in the preceding specimens. The synovial membrane is everywhere thickened and hyper-vascular. The patella is surrounded by a mass of fringes, some very pedunculated, others almost sessile ; some large, and re- sembling masses of fat, others delicate and filamentous. The external condyle presents a deep groove which runs antero-posteriorly for about an inch and a quarter. The groove extends down to and involves, but does not expose, the bone, which is covered by a membrane similar to that which lines the " ulcerated " or grooved portions in the shoulder-joint. Towards the upper and anterior part the groove becomes shallower, and an island of cartilage remains intact. The cartilage on the upper part of the condyle is rough and fibrillated. On the upper part of the