SERIES XXX. DISEASES A.m imRIES OF THE BRAII AM ITS lEIBMlfES. 2446a. Portions of the left Parietal and Temporal Bones, showing a fracture running across the line of the middle meningeal artery. The artery is torn, and some blood- clot lies in the groove in the bone. 1883 Prom a man, aged 64, who fell ofE his cab, and was admitted into the Hospital drowsy and helpless. From this condition he rallied, and after ten days was able to sit up in a chair ; on the thirteenth day from the injury he suddenly became comatose and died. A post-mortem examination showed a hsemorrhage into the arachnoid cavity, some of the blood being recent, while the smaller portion evidently dated back to the time of the accident. The vessels were atheromatous. See Kenton Ward Book, vol. viii., p. 265. 2446b. A Portion of the Calvaria, which has been fractured on the right side in the temporal region. The fracture has led to rupture of the middle meningeal artery. As a result of the rupture, a free hsemorrhage has taken place between the dura mater and the skull, and this has formed a large and very dense clot, which is well seen in the specimen. 1888 From a woman, aged 65, who was run over by a van. She had a fracture extending through the middle fossa of the skull, with much laceration of the brain substance. See Female Surgical Register, vol. ii. (1888), No. 2052. 2447a. Two Flat, Oval Blood-Clots, which were found in the cavity of the arachnoid of a man, aged thirty-seven, who died from general paralysis of the insane. They measure approximately seven by four inches, and vary in thickness from one-six- teenth to a quarter of an inch. They were firm and partly decolourised when found, and showed very clearly the imprint of the cerebral convolutions. This last feature has almost completely disappeared. 1891 The patient was under restraint in an asylum for six months before his death. Two months before death there were well-marked mental symptoms, but the physical signs of general paralysis did not supervene until one month later. He became unconscious two days before he died. At the autopsy no source of the hsemorrhage could be discovered. The lateral ventricles were not distended. Gangrene of part of the lower lobe of one lung was found. Presented by A. M. Jackson, M.D. 24471). The Right Hemisphere of a Brain, in which a very extensive hfemorrhage has taken place beneath the arachnoid membrane. The effusion of blood is nearly equally distributed over the outer surface, being rather more marked towards the posterior and outer aspects. The inner surface is not affected. The left hemisphere presented a similar appearance, but to a less extent. 1891 The patient was a man, aged 47. He also had cirrhosis of the liver. See Medical Post-IIortem Register, vol. xvii., p. 313.