260 DISEASES AND INJURIES INCIDENTAL TO GESTATION AND PARTURITION. 3072c. An Uterus, with the Ovaries and Fallopian Tubes, from a case of tubal pregnancy, which terminated fatally about the end of the second month. The cyst containing the foetus has formed in the ampulla of the right tube, so that it lies in the pouch of Douglas. The cyst has ruptured, and a hasmatocele has thus been formed in the recto-uterine cavity, which has pushed the uterus forwards. The liiBmatocele was enclosed above by the adhesion of the intestines. The right ovary is seen intact. The right tube has been laid open ; it is much dilated and convo- luted for two inches beyond the cyst. A red glass rod has been pushed into its fimbriated extremity. The half of the cyst, which has been divided to show the included foetus, is seen lying by the side of the specimen. 1886 [Id the first gallery, in a flat case.] From a woman, aged 32, who had been married eleven years, but had borne no children and had had no miscarriages. Ten weeks before death she felt pain in the right side, with shiver- ing and discharge of blood per vaginam, the latter lasting three weeks. A week before death a decidua was discharged, and two days later the cyst burst suddenly whilst at stool. The patient died collapsed. See Martha Ward Book for 1885, No. 89. 3073a. A Secondary or Papyraceous Foetus, of about eight weeks' development. It came with a mature living foetus. The mother was aged thirty-nine years, and it was her tenth pregnancy. 1888 3077a. An Embryo with the Amnion, at about the sixth week of gestation, from a case of extra-uterine foetation. 1881 Taken from the body of a tramp, who died from peritonitis, owing to the rupture of the cyst. Presented by Clement Godson, M.D. 3077b. An Extra-Uterine Foetus^ removed through a vaginal incision by Dr. God- son ten days after its supposed death. The gestation cyst was situated behind the uterus. Craniotomy and perforation of the thorax had to be performed before delivery could be effected. No haemorrhage followed. The placenta was found detached on the sixth day, and was removed. The patient recovered. 1888 From a woman, aged 37, married at 16. She had two children, and became a widow at 22 ; married again at 25 ; had one child at 30 ; no miscarriages. The pregnancy was supposed to have arrived at the twenty-fifth week. See Martha Ward Booh for 1884, No. 216, and Obstetrical Ti'ansaetions, vol. xxix., p. 499. 3077c. The contents of the pelvis, from a case of Extra-uterine Foetation, where abdominal section had been unsuccessfully performed. The right half of the bladder and of the vagina have been removed, and the sac has been opened, above which the fcetus is suspended. The sac is situated in the right broad ligament, and occupies the right half of the pelvic cavity, pushing the uterus to the left side. The bladder maintains its central position. On tlie left side, the ovary, the round ligament, and the Fallopian tube are easily traced; the Fallopian tube is thickened, and its peritoneal orifice is closed. On section, its mucous membrane is seen to be partially destroyed by inflammation, and the lumen is occupied by the remains of this tissue and leucocytes. The round ligament on the right side can be traced, as also can the uterine end of the Fallopian tube : immediately behind this, rupture of the sac occurred. The sac has been divided mesially, and beneath it, in the line of section, is seen the left ovary enclosed in a pouch of peritoneum to which it is loosely adherent. It contains a corpus luteum. Masses of blood-clot are also seen in the loose connective tissue beneath the sac. 1890 From a patient, aged 32, who had been married eleven years without any previous preg- nancy. This, the first, had reached the early part of the fourth month. Death occurred an hour after abdominal section had been performed. Sec also Transactions of the Obstetrical Society, vol. xxxiii. Presented by W. S. A. Griffith, M.D