326 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE AXIS. whole space between the sacrum and the ischial tuberosities, but it is separated from the posterior orifice of the vulva and the symphysis pubis by a fold of skin, wliich represents the perineum. There is no stomach, spleen, liver, or uterus. The kidney is single, and is situated on the right side ; two ureters are derived from it, and pass into a well-developed bladder. The left ovary is alone visible ; it is well developed, and is situated in the left iliac fossa. The spinal column is fairly developed; it terminates by a rounded extremity immediately above the thorax, and it contains a rudimentary cord surrounded by well-developed membranes. The axis of the whole of the upper part of the body appears to have undergone considerable rotation. The intestines are filled with a substance resembling meconium, except in colour ; it is yellowish brown, and contained cholesterin and other fatty crystals, with much granular debris and epithelium. The orifice of the urethra is visible in the bladder, and there is also an opening below the clitoris, but no connection can be traced between the two. 1889 Presented by W. S. A. Griffith, M.D. 3435b. An Acephalous Acardiac Monster, measuring seven inches in length. It was one of maL; twins born at the sixth month. The skin over the whole body was smooth when it was first born, though it has become corrugated owing to the action of the spirit. Beneath the skin is a layer of gelatinous tissue half an inch in thickness. The connective tissue forms a thick pad above the thorax. The monster has well-developed legs and feet, except that the toes are only four in number on the left side, and two on the right. The upper limbs are entirely absent, and do not seem to be represented by even a cartilaginous rudiment. The umbilicus is well formed, and has projecting from it the remains of a normal umbilical cord. An inch above the umbilicus are two apertures, situated symmetiically on either side of the linea alba, and about half an inch from it. The aperture on the right side is small, and appears to end blindly, as a bristle can only be passed along it for about one-tenth of an inch. On the left side the aperture is larger, and contains a foliaceous mass of tissue, which projects from it. On reflecting the skin and subcutaneous tissue, the thorax is found to consist of six ribs on either side, but the sternum is absent, and there are no thoracic organs in situ. The heart is situated in the gelatinous tissue forming the body-wall on the right side. It lies in a cavity which is hollowed out of the tissues surrounding the organ, and consists of a solid mass rudely fashioned into the semblance of two rudimentary auricles and a single ventricle. A small and bent canal leads from the upper part of the pericardial cavity into the surrounding tissues. This channel has no connection with the heart. A delicate band of fibrous tissue passes across the pericardial sac. The diaphragm is absent. The abdominal cavity is of considerable size, and contains many of the normal organs. The intestine begins blindly, the extremity being attached by a ligament to the long axis of the foetus. It appears to com- mence at the duodenum. There is a normal mesentery. The small intestine is well developed ; there is a vermiform appendix and a caacum, which are, as usual, situ- ated on the right side. The large intestine is of the ordinary length, and terminates in an anus. The intestines are filled with epithelial cells, fat, and a large number of kreatin crystals. A single fixed kidney, with two ureters placed laterally, occupies the upper and back part of the abdominal cavity. The testes are situated in the abdomen, immediately above the internal abdominal rings. The bladder is present, and is prolonged upwards into the urachus. There is a well-developed penis and scrotum. The spleen is extremely small, and lies above and to the left side of the kidney. The supra-renal bodies, the stomach, the liver, and the pancreas are absent. Lying in a cleft in the median line of the kidney is an elongated and