SERIES VI. DISEASES AID ISJTJEIES OP MTJSOIES, TEIfDOITS AID BTJESJl. 1168a. A Portion of the Grastrocnemius Muscle whicL has undergone complete fatty metamorphosis. No muscular fibres are anywhere visible, but the inferior surface is covered by the lustrous tendon. 1887 From the leg of a girl, aged 26, who for many years ha<l suffered from anterior poliomyelitis. Female Surgical Begister, vol. i. (1887), No. 189. From the same case as Series vi., No. 1198a. 1171a- A Portion of a Right Psoas Muscle. Extensive suppuration, the result of disease of the spine, occurred ; the ulceration spread from the walls of the abscess cavity into the external iliac artery, causing death from hcsmorrhage. 1891 See Female Surgical Register, vol. v. (1889), No. 2259*. 1174a- A Portion of a Tumour removed from the Sartorius Muscle. It appears to have grown from the connective tissue between the muscle-fibres. The section of the new growth appears in part to be of a firm fibrous nature, whilst in part it is soft, and has broken down in such a manner as to leave a cavity. The tumour is enclosed in an incomplete capsule, which has allowed of the extension of the softer portion of the growth. The capsule appears to be formed by the condensation of the surrounding connective tissue. 1887 From a woman, aged 62. The tumour was of nine months' duration. It was pyriform and obtuse in shape, situated subcutaneously, and growing rapidly. It was slightly lobulated, and before removal it was semi-fluctuating. Microscopically it was found to be a sarcoma under- going fibroid change. The growth recurred in the neighbourhood of the scar, and extended upwards into the groin. It ulcerated through the skin, bled severely at times, and death by exhaustion ensued a few months after its removal. Presented by George Wilks, M.B. 1174b. A Tumour of the Biceps muscle. 1885 1174c. A Tumour of the Buttock, which was removed from the substance of the gluteus maximus. The section shows that it consists of a solid mass, which is penetrated in all directions by bundles of connective tissue. Microscopically the tumour is a fibro-sarcoma. 1889 From a lady, aged 68, from whom a tumour had been removed twice previously, thirteen years and nine years ago. The two previous growths were, after microscopical examination, pronounced to be sarcomatous. The tumour was attached to the tendon of the gluteus maximus close to the great trochanter. She had a mammary tumour of many years standing, which, after removal, was found to be a pure fibroma. Presented by Alfred Willett, Esq. 1174d.. A Small Tumour removed from the thigh of a woman, aged twenty-six years. It had been growing for two years, and was situated in the substance of the right sartorius muscle, where it formed the boundary of Scarpa's triangle. Before removal it had been tapped and some clear fluid was drawn off, but it soon