SERIES XXXVI. DISEASES OP THE TESTICLE, ITS COTERIIf&S, AID OP THE SPEEIATIC CORD. HYDROCELE. 2740a. A Testicle, with its Coverings. The walls of the tunica vaginalis are thickened and its cavity is much enlarged: the testicle, which is slightly flattened, lies behind and below the sac, the inner surface of which is in places covered with a fine shaggy membrane; elsewhere a few crystals of cholesteriu can be seen adherent to its walls. Neither the vas deferens nor the spermatic vessels are materially altered. 1891 See 3Iale Surgical Register, vol. iii. (1890), No. 3145. 2743a. Chylous Lymph, from a Hydrocele. Microscopical and chemical examination shows that the fluid consists of a tine emulsion of fat, in many points resembling true chyle. It has a specific gravity of 1029. 1887 The fluid was obtained from the servant of one of the Indian Princes who attended the Jubilee of Queen Victoria. Presented by S. G. Shattock, Esq. 2745a. Hjematocele of the left Tunica Vaginalis. The testicle appears to be healthy. The tunica vaginalis is greatly thickened. There is a small cyst just above the testis, under the tunica vaginalis. 1885 M., ffit. 60. The swelling had existed many years, and had been thrice tapped. After the second tapping there was much pain ; after the third tapping blood was drawn off. Presented by Stephen Paget, Esq. SUPPURATION AFTER INJECTION OF HYDROCELE WITH IODINE. 2753a. The Tunica "Vaginalis and Testis of a man, on whom the operation for radical cure of a hydrocele had been performed ten years previous to removal. The sac of the tunica vaginalis is converted into an abscess cavity with walls about a quarter of an inch in thickness, tough and firm, and lined by a smooth membrane. It forms a cavity capable of holding an ounce of fluid, and in the recent state contained some thin oily pus in which were innumerable cholesterin crystals, but no cells. Behind this is the testis in a perfectly normal state, but closely adherent to the contiguous structures. The epididymis and cord are normal. Immediately beneath the skin, in front of, but not in connection with, the sac of the tunica vaginalis, is some broken-down inflammatory material, marking the site of a superficial abscess. 1884 From a man, aged 27 years, who said that there had been a swelling of the testis ever since the operation for radical cure. It had never caused him any pain until quite recently, when it had begun to increase in size. At the time he came under treatment there was evident suppuration in the subcutaneous structures, and this was supposed to be in connection with a chronically enlarged and inflamed testis, the latter being simulated by the thickened tunica vaginalis. Castration was therefore performed.