52 INJURIES OF BONES (FRACTUEES). 925b. The Lower Portion of the Radius, which has sustained a fracture extending into the Wrist-Joint. The upper fragment is well impacted into the lower. As a result of the impaction, the lower fragment is cleanly divided by a horizontal and two longitudinal fractures into four pieces, which are only held together by ligament. The articular surface which corresponds to the semilunar bone has entirely dis- appeared. The styloid process of the ulna has been torn off. 1887 From a man, aged 43, who fell from a first-floor window. He died, without regaining consciousness, upon the sixth day. See Male Surgical Register, vol. v. (1884), No. 1038. 925c. The Lower Portion of the Radius, which has been fractured immediately above the Wrist-Joint. The lower fragment is again divided into several pieces, as in the preceding specimens. Some of the fissures extend into the carpal articulation. 1887 925d. A Portion of the Lower End of the Right Radius, which has sustained a fracture. The fracture runs obliquely upwards and downwards. It extends into the wrist-joint by a wide fissure situated at the junction of the quadrilateral with the triangular articulating surface. 1887 From a woman, aged 65, who was knocked down by a heavy van, the wheel passing over the chest and arm ; she sustained such injuries that she died two days later. See Female Surgical Register, vol. v. (1885), No. 641. This, with the three preceding specimens, was exhibited before the Pathological Society. See Transactions of the Pathological Society, vol. xxxviii., pp. 253-257. 928a. A Dissection of left Forearm and Hand, exhibiting the deformity characteristic of a recent Colles' Fracture. The lower articular end of the radius is separated from the shaft by a fracture, and displaced backwards with the carpus upon the posterior surface of the radius and ulna. A prominence upon the palmar surface of the wrist is occasioned by the projection of the extremities of the radius and ulna ; and another a little lower, upon the dorsal surface by the displacement back- wards of the carpus. The cuneiform is dislocated from the ulna, and the internal lateral ligament is ruptured. 1881 930a. Hand and part of the bones of the Forearm, showing the condition of parts many years after a Colles' Fracture. The upper end of the radius has been impacted into the lower fragment. The impaction, however, has not been quite even, since the outer edge of the radius has been driven farther upwards than the inner, i.e., that next to the ulna. Tliis obliquity of the radius has rendered the ulna unusually prominent. The cuneiform and pisiform bones are situated below the articular surface of the radius. 1885 For a further account of this specimen see Pathological Society''s Transactions, vol. xxxv., p. 272. Presented by C. B. Lockwood, Esq. FRACTURED PELVIS. 934a. A Comminuted Fracture of the Pelvis. The right os innominatum is more completely broken than the left. The right acetabulum is broken into several pieces, and the right femur has sustained an extracapsular fracture of the neck, involving the great trochanter. The right lateral mass of the sacrum is completely separated, whilst on the left side the liorizontal ramus of the pubes and the ascending ramus of the ischium are fractured. 1887 (In Case H.) From a man, aged 58, whose diaphragm and peritoneum were ruptured, and who had in addition five fractured ribs. He threw himself from a window on to the pavement, a distance of about twenty feet. Sec Male Surgical Register, vol. iv. (1887), No. 1203,