177 DISEASES OF THE SUPRA-KENAL BODIES. ABSCESS IN THE SUPRA-RENAL CAPSULE. 2326b. A Section through a Kidney and Supra-renal Capsule. The supra-renal capsule has been converted into a globular mass, which measured three inches in circumference when it was fresh. The glandular substance has been completely destroyed, and its walls are thickened by a deposit of caseating material. The cavity was filled with thin sanious pus. 1889 From a man, aged 67 years, who died of diabetes. There was no evidence during life of any symptoms of Addison's disease. The opposite supra-renal was healthy. See Surgical Post-Movtein Register for 1888, p. 51. SARCOMA OF THE SUPRA-RENAL BODIES. 2330a. The Right Kidney and Supra-renal Body of a Child. The kidney is normal, but the adrenal is greatly enlarged, and is infiltrated and surrounded by a tough red sarcomatous growth. 1888 M., Jet. one and a half years. The child was almost a mass of sarcomatous tissue. From the first symptoms of his illness to the time of his death five months elapsed, whilst from the observation of the first swelling, which appeared on his skull, till the time of his death, was a period of thirteen weeks. The growth is a round-celled sarcoma. See also Series i., Nos. 437b, c, d. See Transactions of the Pathological Society, vol. xxxvi. (1885), pp. 393-395. 2330b. The Eight Supra-renal Capsule, with a section of the Kidney attached to it. The adrenal is infiltrated with a carcinomatous growth, which has produced a great increase in its size. 1888 From a male adult who was treated for dyspepsia two years before his death, and who subsequently developed symptoms of phthisis. During the last fourteen days of his life he was deeply jaundiced, and was very delirious. At the autopsy large nodules of cancer were found in the pancreas, lungs, and adrenals. The pancreas is preserved in Series xxiii., No. 2270a. Presented by S. H. Habershon, M.D. 2330c. A Section through the Right Kidney and Supra-renal Capsule. The supra- renal capsule is infiltrated with a round-celled sarcoma. It is oval in shape, and measures three inches in its long axis. 1889 From a man, aged 18 years. The primary growth occurred in the left lung. The lung is preserved in Series xi., No. 1728b. Presented by Arthur Davies, M.D.