DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE KIDNEYS, THEIR PELVES, ETC. 179 enter the bladder, but enters the right vesicula seminalis, which is much larger and more convoluted than usual. It should also be noticed that the bladder and pros- tate gland are both asymmetrical in shape, the right half of each being distinctly smaller than the left. The left kidney shows less compensatory hypertrophy than is usual in these cases. It is normal in appearance, and weighs seven ounces. 1893 From a young man, aged 30. See Surgical Post-Mortem Register for 1891, p. 31. 2331h.. A similar specimen, from a child, aged eleven years. The left kidney is repi'e- sented only by a small flattened mass of fibrous tissue, one and a half inches long by half an inch deep. The first two inches of the left ureter are not pervious. The right kidney shows compensatory hypertrophy, and weighs four ounces. Its outer surface is lobulated to an unusual extent. 1893 See Medical Post-Mortem Register, vol. xx., p. 55. CHRONIC INTERSTITIAL NEPHRITIS. 2335a. A Kidney, from a case of chronic Bright's disease. It is much smaller than natural, irregular in shape, roughened and torn where the capsule has been removed, and presents one small cyst in the cortical portion. 1883 From the same patient as the hypertrophied heart. No. 12'lla, Series vii. 2335b. The Left Kidney, from a case of Chronic Interstitial Nephritis. The organ is small and contracted, and its cortex is considerably diminished. The pelvis and calyces are not dilated. On its outer surface are two cysts, one of which, in the fresh state, was as big as a small hen's egg. 1887 From a man, aged 78, who was admitted to the Hospital on account of retention of urine, resulting from an enlarged prostate. The bladder, showing an enlarged and tunnelled prostate, is preserved in Series xxxix., No. 2842a. See Male Surgical Register, vol. i. (1886), Nos. 353 and 726. 2335c. A Kidney, from a case of Chronic Interstitial Nephritis. Its surface is granular, the capsule was adherent, and it presents one or two cysts. The cortex was very narrow. The whole organ weighed four ounces. Microscopical examina- tion showed abundant connective tissue increase ; many tubules were quite denuded of epithelium, others contained blood-casts ; some of the glomeruli were natural, whilst others were shrivelled and degenerate. The arteries were greatly thickened. 1888 From a married woman, aged 28, who had no history of scarlet fever, but who had twice suffered from acute rheumatism. Thirteen months before her admission to the Hospital she had been laid up with pleurisy and bronchitis, and six months later her legs began to swell. She had abundant albumin in her urine, and at the post-mortem examination her heart was found to be hypertrophied. See Faith Ward Booh for 1886, No. 1562. 2335d.. A Kidney, from a case of Chronic Interstitial Nephritis. It was, when fresh, of stony hardness. It weighs five ounces. The surface, from which the capsule, which was very adherent, has been detached, is granular. The cortex is much thinned, and the structure obscured. 1890 From a man, aged 38. The heart was enormously enlarged, and is preserved in Series vii., No. 1241b. See Medical Post-Mortem Register, vol. xv., p. 63. 2335e. Two Kidneys, showing in a marked degree the changes due to Chronic Inter- stitial Nephritis. They are smaller than the normal. The capsule is unduly adherent, and detachable with difficulty, leaving the surface rough, uneven, and of a velvety appearance, with here and there small thin-walled cysts. These, when broken,