DISEASES OF BONES. 2 the erosion is very irregular, and appears like a fretwork pattern, in many cases it seems to have followed the lines of the blood-vessels. The remainder of the Calvaria shows in many places a similar erosion, though it is less marked. 1889 From a child, aged five years, wlio died from Hodgkins' disease. The Dura Mater from the same case is preserved in the next specimen. 1e. A portion of the Dura Mater which covered the eroded parts of the parietal bones in the preceding specimen. The external surface of the Membranes presents a soft reddish velvety growth, the processes of which appear to correspond with the erosion in the skull. The inner surface of the Dura Mater is normal. 1889 If. A Skull-Cap, greatly thickened, particularly in the left frontal region. 1890 (In Case E.) From a man, aged 45, who died, of cerebral hsemorrhage. See Medical Pust-3Iurtem Book, vol. xv,, p. 373. 12a. The Right Tibia and Fibula, which, as the result of disuse, have undergone an extreme amount of Atrojjhy. Both bones are extremely thin and are quite translucent. At the upper and lower extremities of the bone the atrophy has proceeded so far as to leave circular apertures, which give a cancellous appearance to the compact bone. 1889 (In Case E.) From a girl, aged 13, whose tliigh was amputated on account of central necrosis of the femur. She had been confined to her bed for three years. The thigh is preserved in Series i., Nos. I38b and c. See Female Surgical Register, vol. i. (1889), No. 367. 14a. A Calvaria, showing numerous small pits on the inner table, apparently due to an absorption of the bone around the Pacchionian bodies. 1889 (In Case E.) From a man in whose skull there was a great excess of clear cerebro-spinal fluid, which apparently compensated for much atrophy and shrinking of the brain. The patient presented no cerebral symptoms, and died from cellulitis of the leg. See Male Surgical liegister, vol. ii. (1889), No. 210. 17a. The upper part of a Sternum showing the perforation made by an Aortic Aneurysm. 1882 17b. The Manubrium and a portion of the Gladiolus of the Sternum, with the Costal Cartilages attached. The central portion of the bone has been completely absorbed by the pressure of an aneurysm. 1886 (In Case E.) From the dissecting-rooms. 17c, The Manubrium and attached portions of tlie Left Clavicle and Two First Eibs. Most of the bones have a spongy and worm-eaten appearance, due to the erosion caused by a large aneurysm of the innominate artery (see No. 1506a). Tlie sternal end of the right clavicle, with its articulation, has been completely destroyed. 1893 (In Case E,) The aneurysm and large vessels of the neck are preserved in Series viii., No. 1506a, to which refer for a history of the case. 31a. A Humerus, the whole of which is completely necrosed. The upper epiphysis is separated from the shaft, but the periosteum is attached in shreds to the greater part of the circumference of the bone, being separated to only a very slight extent at the upper and posterior surface of the shaft. In the recent state the medullary canal was filled with a soft semi-purulent mass. 1883 From a girl, aged 14 years, who died of pyaemia.—See President Ward Booh, vol. viii., p. 430.