URINARY CALCULI. 293 (c.) A Eouud, Light-Coloured Stone, weighing 12 grammes. Eemoved by lateral lithotomy from a boy, aged six years, the son of Saffir Kowaree. Two days later the patient was doing well. (d.) A Large Oval Calculus, weighing 57 grammes. It was removed by lateral lithotomy from a patient, aged 18, who died on the fifth day after the operation. (e.) Fragments of a Calculus, weighing 8 grammes. They were removed by lithotrity, from Hassan Ali, at five sittings, between November 24th and December 15th, 1880. The patient was quite well two years after the operation. (/.) An Irregular Black and White Calculus, weighing 23 grammes. It was removed by lateral lithotomy from a boy, aged 12 years, who had suffered for two years from symptoms of stone. ((J.) An Oval Stone, weighing 18 grammes. It was removed from a boy, aged 16, who had suffered from symptoms of stone for four years. The calculus was removed by the operation of lateral lithotomy on August 26tb, 1884. An abscess subsequently formed in the track of the wound, but the patient was eventually discharged cured, on October 26th of the same year. (A.) A Circular Calculus, weighing 8 grammes. It was removed from a boy, aged nine years, who had suffered from symptoms of stone ever since he was two years old. The operation was performed on August 12th, and the patient was discharged on August 24th, 1885. (i.) An Oval Calculus, weighing 7 grammes. From a boy, aged six. It was removed oa April 9th, and the patient was discharged on May 5th, 1880. (j.) A Nodulated Oval Calculus, weighing 10 grammes. From a boy, aged 11 years, who had suffered for nine years from symptoms of stone. It was removed on April 15th, 1880, but the patient was not discharged until May 31st, as an abscess formed in the track of the wound. (k.) A Rounded Calculus, weighing 27 grammes. Removed by lateral lithotomy, from a boy, aged 12 years. The patient was well nourished and healthy, and had suffered from symptoms of calculus for six or seven years. During the three months preceding the operation, the pain had been very severe. He died fifty-one hours after the operation. (I.) A Calculus, measuring ly\ inch in length, and weighing 8 grammes. The stone was removed from a pale, ill-nourished boy, aged five years, who had suffered from symptoms of it for two and a half years. He completely recovered in twenty days. (m.) An Oval Calculus, measuring 1| inches in length, and weighing 11 grammes. The stone was removed by lateral lithotomy, from an insufficiently fed boy, aged three and a half years, who had symptoms of a vesical calculus for two years. The wound healed in eighteen days. (n.) A Stone, measuring 1^ inches in length, and weighing 10 grammes. It was removed from a boy, aged six years, on July 6th, 1883, and the patient was dis- charged cured, on July 2 5th of the same year. (o.) A nearly Circular Calculus, weighing 12 grammes. Removed by lateral lithotomy, from a boy, aged six years. All the urine was passed by the urethra on the day following the operation, and the wound was completcdly healed ten days later.