SERIES II. DISEASES OF JOIIfTS. 564a. A Section of the Head and Neck of the Right Femur, from a case of Hip- Joint Disease in an early stage. The cartilage of the head of the femur and of the acetabukim has been in great part removed. The head of the bone is softened, but is not at all destroyed or altered in shape. 1888 From a boy, aged 11, who had symptoms of hip-joint disease for eleven months before his death. The disease appeared to have commenced in the synovial membrane. See Male Surgical Register, vol. ii. (1886), No. 3613*. 567a. SyphiHtic Disease of the Knee-Joint. A gummatous deposit has taken place all round the lower portion of the femur beneath the muscles. These deposits have involved the upper and outer part of the synovial membrane, and have projected into the joint in the form of ragged ulcerated lumps and fringes. The lower portion of the femur is denuded of its periosteum. A glass rod has been passed behind the gummatous growth into the joint. The joint when it was first opened contained several masses of dark grumous material. 1886 From a man, aged 24, who contracted syyhilis three years before his death. Gummata were found ia the brain and on the face. See Male Surgical Register, vol. i. (1884), No. 2001, and Surgical Post-Mortem Booh for 1884, p. 76. ACUTE SUPPURATIVE ARTHRITIS. 567b. The Right Knee-Joint in a condition of Acute Suppurative Arthritis. The ligaments of the joint are almost entirely destroyed. The cartilage covering the inner facet on the head of the tibia is eroded, and that covering the outer facet is inflamed but not eroded. There is roughenmg of the edge of the outer condyle of the femur both anteriorly and posteriorly. The whole of the synovial membrane is thickened and vascular. 1888 From a patient, aged 36, who had a miscarriage ten weeks before amputation of the limb. A week after the abortion, swelling of the right knee-joint, and subsequently septiciemia, set in, with thrombosis of the iliac vein. The patient died a week after the amputation had been performed. See Female Surgical Register, vol. iii. (1884), No. 2226. 569a. A Portion of the Forearm and Hand, prepared to show the great destruction of synovial membrane which bas taken place as a result of Necrosis of the Carpus. The synovial membrane of the carpal articulation has everywhere undergone pulpy degeneration. The bones of both the proximal and distal rows of the carpus are as bare and denuded of cartilage as if they had undergone maceration. 1886 From a man, aged 58, who had injured his index-flnger two months previously. See Male Surgical Register, vol. ii. (1885), No. 376. 5691). A Knee-Joint exhibiting well-marked Pulpy Degeneration of the synovial membrane. The cartilages of both the femur and patella are ulcerated. Micro- scopically the thickened synovial membrane contained abundant deposits of miliary tubercle, though no tubercle bacilli could be detected. 1887