113 NOSE, MOUTH, TONGUE, PALATE, AND FAUCES. See Male Surgical Register, vol. iii. (1887), No. 622. 1798a. A Molar Tooth, with an epulis attached to the fangs. The epulis was composed entirely of fibrous tissue. 1881 1798b. A small Epulis removed from the jaw of a child, aged eleven years. The surface is warty and papillated. 1882 The growth was said to have existed since birth. It was easily removed, and appeared to spring rather from the superficial, tlian from the deeper parts of the gum. Microscopic E-ramination.—The stroma of the tumour consists of a fibrillar tissue with many small round cells. Into this dip columns of epithelial cells of various size ; in some parts the columns run almost the whole depth of the tumour. See Microscopic sections, Series Iv., No. 218. Eeport of case in President Ward Book, vol. viii., p. 196. EPULIS ATTACHED TO TOOTH. 1798c. An Epulis attached to a Molar Tooth. 1883 1799a. A Pedunculated Calcifying Fibroma, which grew from the upper jaw of a man, aged forty-six. The tumour had been growing for twenty-seven years, causing so little inconvenience that the patient was unwiUing to have it removed. It sprang from the palate, just behind the incisor teeth. 1888 See Mule Surr/ical Beglstcr, vol. iii. (1886), No. 1706. 1800a. A Tumour removed from the palate of a gentleman, aged sixty. It had been noticed two years previously, but had probably grown more quickly during the latter part of this period. It occupied the right side of the palate, extending a little across the middle line. It was elastic, almost fluctuating. It had a well- marked capsule, from which it was easily shelled out, as it had no firm connection with the bone. The wound healed quickly and without any exfoliation of bone. Microscopically the growth is a fibro-sarcoma. 1887 Presented by Stephen Paget, Esq. 180016. A Section of a Tumour removed from the palate of a woman, aged twenty. The tumour had been growing for a period of four years. Microscopically it resembles a glandular formation in which the gland tissue is in most parts very imperfectly formed. The cells are evidently epithelial, and are usually arranged in irregular masses, separated from one another by a homogeneous stroma, which appears to be formed by a degeneration of the cells themselves. A few definite gland tubes may be met with, and in one part there are some cell-nests. The epithelial cells are generally small and round, but in the neighbourhood of the nests they become solid. 1887 A section is preserved in Series Iv., No. 220. See Female Surgical Register, vol. ii. (1886), No. 2132. 1800C- A Tumour removed from the palate. It is seen in section to be of firm consistence, with numerous minute cavities in it. It measures two inches in length by an inch and a half in breadth. Microscopically the stroma is composed of fibrous tissue and hyaline material. It contains small irregular masses of epithelial cells, amongst which are a few cell-nests. At one margin of the tumour the cells are larger and more numerous, whilst in places they are collected into masses which are enclosed in definite alveoli. Within a month of the removal of the tumour from the palate, where it had been growing for twenty years, it was found necessary to remove the superior maxilla. The growth infiltrating the bone was composed of a fibrous stroma enclosing very definite alveoli filled with large epithelial cells. The growth was evidently carcinomatous. 1887 From a man, aged 55. The tumour of his palate had existed for twenty years. It was pear-shaped, and was attached to the left side of the arch of the palate, the soft i)alate being free. He had noticed a swelling of the left cheek and an overflow of tears for two months. A section of the tumour is preserved in Series Iv., No. 221 ; a section of the growth in the superior maxilla in Series Iv., No. 72.