140 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS. ABSCESS IN THE WALLS OF THE RECTUM. 2055b. A Rectum, together with the Uterus of an old woman. In the anterior wall of the rectum, at about four inches from the anus, situated just behind the uterus, is an abscess cavity. Its sides are pressed together, and it measures nearly an inch in its longest diameter. Between the abscess and the mucous membrane of the bowel the walls of the rectum are much thickened, and the calibre of the bowel is diminished, together giving the appearance of a malignant tumour. This part, however, is quite soft to the touch, and the microscope showed that the thickening is due to inflammation only, and not to carcinoma or any other new growtli. Several hemorrhoids are present round the margin of the anus. 1892 The patient was aged 67 at the time of her death. She was also the subject of osteitis defoTmans. The bones affected were the right radius and right tibia. Tliey arc preserved in Series i., Nos. 74e and f. See Female Surgical Eegister, vol. v. (1891), No. 2639*. RECTO-PROSTATIC FISTULA. 2056a. A portion of a Rectum, with the urinary Bladder and Prostate, showing a recto-prostatic fistula ; the point of communication between the rectum and prostate is indicated by a piece of catheter. The rectum is ulcerated for a distance of two inches from the anus. The bladder is thickened, and its mucous membrane is everywhere ulcerated. The fistulous connection with the rectum opens into the prostatic portion of the urethra at a point situated immediately below the sphincter vesicas on the left side of the caput gallinaginis. The glandular portion of the prostate has sloughed and is converted into an abscess cavity. 1889 From a man, aged 32 years, who had long suffered from general tuberculosis. The testes are preserved in Series xxxvi., No. 2780c and d. Sec Male Surgical Register, vol. v. (1888), No. 714. HEALED FISTULOUS COMMUNICATION BETWEEN THE BLADDER AND THE SIGMOID FLEXURE. 2057a. A Bladder, Rectum, and Sigmoid Flexure. The mucous membrane of the latter is much thickened and thrown into large transverse folds, one of which, being separated in part from its connections, forms a bridge across tlie gut. Between these folds are deep pits or depressions, the base of the deepest being mainly formed by the peritoneum covering the gut. At the seat of the greatest thickening, the sigmoid flexure is firmly adherent to the bladder by very strong, but rather elongated, adhesions. Opposite this point a small pigmented depression in the vesical mucous membrane marks the seat of a former communication between the two contiguous viscera. The mucous membrane of the bladder is natural, but the prostate is some- what hypertrophied. 1882 From a gentleman who had suffered for several years with dysenteric symptoms. Some years before death he frequently passed flatus per urethram, Imt never any ffecal matter. After a time this ceased, and for the last two years of his life there were no signs of any communication existing between the intestine and the bladder. Presented by Dr. Martin. 2057b. The Rectum and Sigmoid Flexure of a patient upon whom the operation of colotomy was performed three days before death for the relief of a sj^philitic stricture of the rectum. The bowel from the anus upwards is much thickened, and its cut edge almost resembles cartilage. The thickening gradually diminishes until it is imperceptible at the splenic flexure. There is hardly any ei>ithelium covering the diseased portion of the intestine. A microscopic examination of a portion of the intestinal wall, taken about fourteen inches above the anus, shows that the epithelial lining is entirely absent. Tlic submucous tissue is so infiltrated with round cells as to look like a section of lymphatic gland. The muscular coat is also invaded by lymph corpuscles and a dense fibrous meshwork, whilst the outer peritoneal coat is infiltrated with cells. 1887