NOSE, MOUTH, TONGUE, PALATE, AND FAUCES. Ill capsule. Microscopically it consists of sarcoma cells, which are large, round, and granular. The matrix is homogeneous, but in parts granular. Numerous small blood-vessels run amongst the cells. 1887 From a man, aged iO, who first noticed a soreness about the middle of the left side of his tongue three months before admission to the Hospital, though it was not until two months later that he observed any swelling. The tumour rapidly increased in size, but was only painful during mastication. One half of the tongue was removed, and the patient made a good recovery. See J/ale Surgical Register, vol. ii. (1886), No. 3082 ; The Lancet, vol. i., 1887, p. 623. EPITHELIOMA. 1787a. Section of a Tongue with an epitheliomatous growth at the right lateral margin. A large ingrowth of epithelial tissue of a triangular form has invaded the muscular tissue almost as far as the septum. 1884 1788a. Part of a Tongue, the surface of which is very rough and papillated. All the papillffi are much enlarged and the epithelium generally increased in thickness, so that the diseased part was considerably raised above the level of the rest of the tongue. There is nowhere any ulceration. ' 1883 From a man, who had first noticed a small pimple on his tongue five years previously. A year later he was under treatment at the Hospital, caustics being applied locally and iodide of potassium administered internally. At this time the growth was about the size of a two- shilling piece, and steadily spread up till the time of removal, when it covered half the organ. A microscopical examination showed that not only was the thickness of the epithelium increased, but that in addition there was a very distinct epitheliomatous growth, large columns of epithelial cells dipping deeply into the subjacent muscular tissue, and containing large cell-nests. Microscopical sections are preserved in Series Iv., No. 211 ; also a Drawing of the tongue before operation in Series lvii.,No. 331. See Darher Ward Sooli, vol. ix., p. 45. 1788b. Commencing epithelioma of the tongue. 1884 1788c. Epithelioma of tongue. 1885 From a woman, aged 35. Presented by Sir William Savory, Bart, F.R.S. 1788d. Tongue and Larynx. The tongue is excavated by a large epitheliomatous ulcer. 1885 1788e. The Left Anterior Half of a Tongue, which was removed on account of the large epitheliomatous ulceration seen upon its lateral aspect. The ulcer extends for some distance along its under surface, and the raising up of the tissue around its edges has given to it an almost fungating appearance. 1886 M.., fet. 64. A tumour of the tongue had been noticed for five months prior to the opera- tion. The lymphatic glands were not enlarged. The patient made a rapid recovery after the removal of the tongue. See Male Surgical Register, vol. ii. (1885), No. 3345. 1788f. The Left Half of a Tongue removed on account of an epitheliomatous infiltra- tion. The new growth has broken down to form a large and irregularly oval ulcer, which occupies the posterior two-thirds of the lateral margin of the organ. It measures an inch in length by half an inch across. 1887 From a man, aged 50, who had noticed for four or five months that his tongue was sore. He was in the habit of smoking a clay pipe on the left side of his mouth. The glands were not enlarged. See 3Iale Surgical Register, vol. iii. (1885), No. 3345. 1788g'. The Right Half of a Tongue which was removed on account of an epithelio- matous growth. The growth is a large warty mass, situated upon the anterior portion of the tongue. , 1887