THEIR PELVES, AND THE URETERS. 183 its parenchyma has undergone absorption until there remains only a thin tough coating of the consistence of leather. In the fresh state the interior of the cyst was of a bright, inflammatory colour, spotted with flakes of pus, and it still appears sliaggy from the deposit of lymph upon its inner surface. The calculus, blocking up the ureter near its commencement, is oval and dark-coloured. Several small dark-coloured calculi of oxalate of lime lay in the infundibula of the kidney. 1886 From a woman, aged 31, who suffered long-standing and severe pain of a wearing character in the right side, which she dated from her last confinement, two years previously. She never had any attack of renal colic, hfematnria, or vesical irritability. A swelling below the liver, noticed for six months, gradually increased until it was as large as a foetal head. The urine contained pus. An exploratory puncture into the tumour let out thick greenish pus. Nephrectomy was performed, and the patient made a good recovery. A drawing is preserved in Series Ivii., No. 620. Presented by Alfred Willett, Esq. 2358b. The Eight Kidney, which is sacculated and distended to about twice its natural size. A sinus in the groin led into the pelvis of the organ. The greater part of the renal tissue is absorbed. A calculus, which sent its branches a short distance up the calyces, was firmly wedged into the ureter and pelvis, which it completely occluded. 1888 From a girl, aged 20, who suffered from pyonephrosis. An incision was made into the kidney, and the patient died six months later from chronic pysemia. See Female Surgical Register, vol. i. (1887), No. 1512*. 2359a. A Pair of Kidneys. The left one, as a result of the long.continued irritation of a branched calculus, is atrophied, and is converted into a mere membranous sac. The calculus extends into, and plugs, the ureter. The right kidney is hypertrophied, weighing twelve ounces. It has undergone some amount of fatty degeneration. 1888 From a man, aged 61, who had diabetes with albuminuria, and subsequently gangrene of the left foot. See 3Iale Surgical Register, vol. i. (1887), No. 275. 2361a. The Kidneys, Ureters, and Bladder. The kidneys are enlarged and saccu- lated, and their pelves are dilated. The right ureter, immediately beyond the pelvis of the kidney, presents a very tight and tortuous stricture about an inch in length. The stricture is so tight that it was barely possible to inject water through it. Two inches lower down this ureter is again constricted, but tiie second stricture is not so narrow, and is annular in form. The left ureter is also constricted in two places, about two inches apart. The upper stricture is situated two inches from the kidney, and the ureter above it is dilated into a pouch. The strictures will admit of the passage of a No. 7 catheter. All the strictures are tough and fibrous, and appear to be of long standing. The bladder is very much hypertrophied. 1887 From a man, aged 44, upon whom urethrotomy was performed for the relief of an impas- sible stricture of the urethra. See Male Surgical Register, vol. iii. (1884), No. 2774. 2368a. The Urinary Bladder, Ureters, and Kidneys, in which there are two Ureters on each side. The bladder is slightly more capacious than usual, but its walls are not thickened. On both sides, the oiifice of the more posterior ureter shows some pouching between the mucous membrane and the muscular coats. On the left side, both ureters, particularly tlie more posterior, are much increased in size, and the pelvis of the kidney is greatly dilated, causing absorption and loss of kidney substance. A similar condition is present, though to a less extent, on the right side, except that the calibre of the anterior ureter is hardly increased beyond the normal. 1892 From a man, aged 50, who died from cerebral hsemorrhage. See Medical Post-Mortem Register, vol. xvii., p. 2.