SERIES III. See Male Surgical Register, vol. ill. (1886), No. 952. ABIORIAL COIDITIOIS OP THE OSSEOUS AlfD MTJSCTJLAE, SYSTEMS. CLASS I.—VARIATION. 351 SlO- The Hyoid and portions of the Temporal Bones from a human skull, showing the almost complete ossification of the stylo-hyoid ligaments on both sides. The ossified ligaments are divided into segments, the segments being united by joints enclosed in synovial membranes. 1886 Presented by S. T. Pruen, M.D. 3519a. Two Contiguous Vertebraj from the mid-dorsal region of an adult female. The vertebrje are united by the bony ankylosis of their bodies, laminje and trans- verse processes. The union is so smooth and complete, that it probably occurred during infancy or intra-uterine life. 1887 3522a. Skull of an adult European. The right half of the atlas is firmly ossified to the occipital condyle. 1885 [Case in top gallery.] Presented by E. J. Woodward, Esq,, per Sir Dyce Duckworth, M.D. 3522b. An adult Skull, to which the first cervical vertebra is inseparably united. The union is bony at every part, except at a small space in the median line anteriorly, and at the apertures through which passed the vertebral arteries and sub-occipital nerves. The bone uniting them is so healthy and smoothly continuous with the adjacent surfaces that it may be assumed the union was accomplished before birth. The sutures between the pre-maxillary and superior maxillary bones are not closed. a. 152. 1886 3524a. Bony nodules in the linese transversse. The small nodules appear to repre- sent rudimentary abdominal ribs. 1885 For further details see a paper by C. B. Lockwood, Esq., in the Transactions of the Patlio- logical Society, vol. xxxvi. (1885), p. 359. 3524b. A Congenital Tumour, removed from the back of a boy, aged nine years. It was situated over the spine of the seventh dorsal vertebra, and was firmly connected with it and with the spines of the two neighbouring vertebras. It measures two inches in length, and is divided into lobes corresponding with the vertebrse to which it was attached. It is apparently mesoblastic in origin, for it contains cartilage, gelatinous tissue, fibrous tissue, and muscle. 1886 A section is preserved in Series Iv., No. 703.