DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE 108 SO as to fill the nostril on the right side. The growth extends along the inferior meatus from the anterior nares, where it is ulcerating, nearly as far as the choanje. Microscopically the growth is a spheroidal-celled carcinoma. 1887 The specimen was obtained from the body of a woman, aged 64, who died from epistaxis. The tumour had only been observed for two months before her death. The patient had well- marked diplopia. Presented by J. A. Gray, Esq. MYXOMA, 1776a. A Myxomatous Tumour removed from the cheek of a young man, aged twenty-one years, in whom it had been growing eighteen months. 1882 Microscopic sections are preserved, Series Iv., No. 192. EPITHELIOMA. 1777a. An Ulcerating Epithelioma growing upon the lower lip of a man, aged fifty- nine. The ulcer presents an oval outline, measuring an inch across by an inch and a quarter in its long diameter. It is situated upon the mucous membrane of the inner side of the lip. 1887 See Male Surgical Register, vol. iv. (1887), No. 144. 1777b. The Free Margin of the Lower Lip, showing a very considerable ulceration. On the right side is a punclied-out cavity, which measured in the fresh condition three-quarters of an inch in length by half an inch in width. The ulcer is epitheliomatous ; it is oval in shape and has everted edges. The mucous membrane is involved by a papillomatous ulceration which extends beyond the angle of the mouth. The left side of the lip is also hard and papillomatous. 1888 From a man, aged 49. Thirteen years before the removal of the lip he noticed a hard, painless, immoveable lump on the right side of his lower lip, of the size of a small shot, which grew slowly, and eventually began to ulcerate. See Male Surgical Register, vol. iv. (1887), No. 1604. CONGENITAL CYST OF THE TONGUE. 1779a. The Specimen consists of a nearly Spherical Cyst, measuring three inches in diameter, and occupying the anterior portion of the tongue : it is situated below the muscular layers, which are thinned out and expanded over the cyst : the mucous membrane over the anterior half of the lower surface is a good deal thickened : at the sides large blood-vessels can be seen running along the margin between the cyst wall and the muscles. 1892 The patient was a child, aged three : a large cyst existed at birth and was tapped, but filled again rapidly : the cyst and portion of tongue now seen protruded constantly from the mouth, which could not be closed : the surface was dry and excoriated and the lower jaw greatly expanded, and the anterior half bent downwards, so that after the removal of the cyst the mouth could not be shut. The teeth were everted, and the intervals between them were at least twice as large as usual. The cyst contained semi-purulent fluid. Microscopical examination of its walls showed them to be composed of fibrous tissue only. There was no evidence of any " dermal" origin. Two photographs of the child, taken before the operation, are preserved in Series Ivii., No. 318. Presented by Stephen Paget, Esq. N^VUS OF THE TONGUE. 1779b. The Left Half of a Tongue removed by operation, and showing a large nasvus occupying nearly the whole of the dorsum. The epidermis is much thickened, and the papilla; are unduly prominent. 1893 The patient was a gentleman, aged 46. The growth was congential, but had only caused trouble for nine weeks. Presented by H. T. Butlin, Esq.