144 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS. 2069a. A Rectum, wliich lias been laid open longitudinally to show a very extensive adenoid carcinoma which involves the whole circumference of the bowel from im- mediately above the anus to a point nearly three inches higher up. The surface of the growth has a rough, shaggy appearance, and at the spot where the section has been made, it can be seen to have penetrated the muscular coats, which are much thickened at this point, 1893 The patient was a man, aged 64, who had suffered from rectal trouble for fifteen years. A spontaneous fracture of the left humerus, due to a secondary deposit of carcinoma, took place before death. See 31ale Surgical Register^ vol. iii. (1888), No 2923. 2070a. The upper portion of a Rectum, the calibre of which is so narrowed, that, before being laid open, it barely admitted the tip of the finger. The walls are much thickened by the deposit of cancerous material, whilst, at the seat of the greatest constriction, the mucous membrane is ulcerated and ragged. A bristle is passed through a small hole in the gut, which communicated with the peritoneal cavity. 1882 From a lady, aged 35, who had none of the symptoms of cancer, and only suffered from slight constipation. She died very suddenly of acute peritonitis. Presented by F. Swinford Edwards, Esq. 2072a. A Peh'is, with the Rectum in situ, to show the position of a carcinomatous ulceration. The ulceration commences five inches above the anus, and continues for a distance of three inches upwards. It involves the whole circumference of the gut, and extends as deeply as the muscular coat. The lumen of the intestine is not encroached upon or contracted. There was no other new growth in the intestine. 1889 From a man, aged 52, -s^-ho had always been dyspeptic. He had been ailing for five years. He had diarrhoea, but had never noticed any pus in his stools. See Luhe Ward Booh for 1886, No. 265. 2073a. Part of a Rectum and Sigmoid Flexure. The calibre of the rectum is con- tracted by the deposit of cancerous material in an annular form. The obstruction to the passage of faeces has resulted in a dilatation and thinning of the gut above. 1882 2073b. The lower part of the Descending Colon, the Sigmoid Flexure, and Rectum of a man, aged seventy-five, on whom the operation of inguinal colotomy was per- formed for the relief of a malignant stricture of the rectum. The rectum has been laid open, and is considerably narrowed a few inches above the anus. At this point a ragged, shaggy tumour, involving the walls of the gut, protrudes into the lumen of the bowel, but the whole circumference is not involved. At this point also, and for an inch above it, the mucous membrane is ulcerated ; above, there is little or no distension. The lower part of the sigmoid flexure is bound down to the upper part of the rectum by a firm adhesion, which has formed in connection with one of the appendices epiploica3. About six inches above this is the artificial anus, with a well- marked " spur " between the two openings. There is only slight prolapse of the gut at this point. Under the microscope the growth was found to be spheroidal-celled, i.e., true scirrhous carcinoma, without any trace of gland cells. 1891 The patient was an old man, aged 75, who had suffered from malignant disease of the rectum for several months. He survived the operation of colotomy for five weeks. At the post-mortem examination the peritoneum, mesenteric glands, and liver were all largely infil- trated by secondary deposits. See Male Surgical Bcgister, vol. v. (1890), No. 2303. 2076a. The lower portion of the Rectum and the Anus, from a man, aged thirty- eight. The mucous membrane in the neighbourhood of the anus is festooned with liasmorrhoids. The piles are for the most part of the external variety, since