DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE INTESTINES. 134 opening has been closed, while the proximal opening has been implanted into the sigmoid flexure : this portion of the bowel has been laid open, and portions of its walls removed, to show more clearly the method, by means of india-rubber rings, which has been employed to fix the two pieces of intestine together. 1892 The patient was a man, aged 64 : he survived the operation for a few hours only. At the autopsy it was found that no fiecal extravasation had occurred : there were extensive secondary deposits in the liver and mesenteric lymphatic glands. See Male Surgical Begister, vol. iii. (1891), No. 1459. 2029ai Tlie Cfecum with a Portion of the Large Intestine, in which, as a result of a malignant growth of the transverse colon, a rupture of the c^cum has occurred. In the anterior wall of the ca?cum are two irregular jagged apertures, one measuring half an inch in diameter, and the other about a quarter of that size. In the trans- verse colon, just above the splenic flexure, is a malignant growth which infiltrates and completely encircles the walls of the great intestine. The growth is soft, with raised edges, and is extensively ulcerated in its centre. Microscopically, the growth is an adenoid cancer, which is undergoing colloid degeneration. 1888 From a man, aged 54, who suffered from symptoms of intestinal obstruction for five months before his death. The patient died on the day after left lumbar colotomy had been performed. See Male Surgical Begister, vol. iii. (1887), No. 73. 2031a. An Appendix Vermiformis. The first inch is normal, but immediately below this a small though not very hard fajcal mass was impacted in such a manner as to cause ulceration and perforation of the bowel. The apex of the vermiform appendix was entire, but between the impacted mass and the apex the wall was ruptured in more than one place. 1886 The ffecal mass is in a small bottle at the bottom of the jar containing the specimen. See Medical Post-Mortem Boult, vol. x.. p. 344. 2031b. A mass of hardened Fasces, about the size of a hazel-nut, which was found lying loosely in the iliac fossa. It is laminated in structure, and has evidently been formed in the vermiform appendix. 1888 From a boy, aged 14, in whom the vermiform appendix had sloughed, leading to death from peritonitis. See Male Surgical Begister, vol. iv. (1887), No. 1829. 2032a. A Pin surrounded by a mass of hard fajcal matter, which becoming impacted in the vermiform appendix, caused typhlitis, perforation of the intestine, peritonitis, and death. 1885 For further details see Male Surgical Begister, vol. v. (1885), No. 1311. 2032b. A Pin which was found projecting from the vermiform appendix of a man, aged thirty-six, who died from pya;mia. There was no history of the pin having been swallowed. It is coated with gritty matter, so that it had probably remained in the intestine for a considerable period. The vermiform appendix was thickened and ulcerated. 1888 From a man, aged 42, who had been in good health until five months before his death, when he began to complain of a constant gnawing pain on the right side of his abdomen. He subsequently had pyasmia with phlebitis of his iliac veins, secondary multiple abscesses of his liver and broncho-pneumonia. The presence of the pin was not suspected until it was found at the autopsy. The patient was admitted to John Ward. See Male Surgical Begister, vol. iv. (1888), s- v. W. Torode. 2032c. A Vermiform Appendix, which was removed during life on account of its gangrenous condition. It measures in its shrunken condition nearly four inches in