136 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE INTESTINES. 2040e. A portion of the Small Intestine where, as the result of a severe injury, the peritoneal and muscular coats have been ruptured and Lave retracted. There is no tear in the mucous membrane, which forms a loop three inches in length, and now protrudes through the aperture in its outer covering. 1892 2040f. A part of the Sigmoid Flexure from the same case as the preceding specimen and showing a similar injury. In this case there is also a rent in the mesentery, but the portion of mucous membrane left uncovered is much less, and only measures one and a half inches in length. 1892 The patient was a child, aged two, who was run over in the street and brought to the Hospital, where he shortly afterwards died. See Surgical Post-Mortem Register (1891), p. 93. OPERATIONS ON THE INTESTINES. 2040ni. The adjacent portions of Small Intestine united by means of Senn's decalcified bone plates, from a case of strangulated umbilical hernia necessitating resection of the gangrenous gut. At the open ends of the intestine the mucous membrane has been invaginated and the peritoneal surfaces united by silk sutures. The plates were then introduced and the contiguous portions of intestine sutured together. It is seen that the proximal end is still the larger, not having recovered from the distension caused by the obstruction. Openings have been made in the walls of the bowel to show the position of the plates. 1892 The patient was a woman, aged 41, who had suflfered from a hernia for eighteen months. Symptoms of strangulation had existed for four days. She survived the operation seven hours. At the post-mortem examination it was found that the intestine had united. The sutures were deeply buried in newly-formed plastic lymph, and no extravasation had occurred. The portion of gangrenous bowel removed at the time of operation is preserved in Scries xs., No. 2109c. ^QQ Female Surgical Begistcr, vol. iii., (1891), No. 1718. ENTEROTOMY. 2040n. A portion of the lower part of the Jejunum which was opened in the course of an abdominal section. An inpacted gall-stone was extracted, and the gut sewn up by a double row of continuous sutures. 1893 The patient was a woman, aged 72, who was admitted in a collapsed state from acute intestinal obstruction. Laparotomy was performed, but she did not rally, and died in a few hours. See Female Stirgical Register, vol. v. (1892), No. 278. 2041a. Perforation of Intestine by a fish-bone. A piece of small intestine with a small hole through which a fish-bone protrudes. The peritoneum is roughened and discoloured ; the bone measures about one inch in length. 1882 Taken from a man who had been a patient in the Hospital for about a fortnight, and had part of that time been on " fish-diet;" he died with acute peritonitis. POISONING BY NITRIC AND SULPHURIC ACIDS. 2042a. A portion of the Duodenum from a case of poisoning by a mixture of nitric and sulphuric acids. The whole of the mucous membrane is thickened, and presents a fine velvety appearance. When fresh it was of a bright green colour; this has mostly faded, and a pale yellow is all that now remains. The change in colour caused by the poison extended to a point rather over two feet from the pylorus. 1893 A drawing of the appearance, when fresh, of the oesophagus, stomach, and duodenum, is preserved in Series Ivii., No. 385. Sec also Medical Post-Murtcm Register, vol. xviii., p 295,