SERIES XI. DISEASES AID IIJTJEIES OE THE PLEURA, BROICHIAL TUBES, AND lUIf&S. 1668a. A Lung with a Portion of the Chest Wall. The lung is puckered and contracted over a considerable portion of its extent. The puckering appears to be the result of a localised pleuritic inflammation. The adjoining portion of the parietal layer of the pleura also presents an oval thickened patch, which is probably due to the same cause. 1888 From a subject brought to the Hospital for dissection. 1671a. A portion of the Thoracic Wall, with the seventh, eighth, and ninth ribs and left lung, to show the changes which have taken place as the result of a chronic empyema. The lung is much contracted, and is bound down to the pleura by such dense tibrous adhesions, that it cannot be separated without laceration of its sub- stance. The parietal layer of the pleura is converted into a calcified plate measuring three-sixteenths of an inch in thickness. The empyema perhaps resulted from an injury to the seventh rib, which is fractured about its middle. 1887 From a subject brought to the Hospital for dissection. 1675a. Portions of Five Eibs of the Left Side, which were removed by operation from a patient who had previously suffered from empyema : it was hoped that the chest would fall in around the collapsed lung, and thus cause the obliteration of a large suppurating cavity. The bones were removed through one lateral incision after the periosteum had been stripped off. Fragment No. 3 shows some necrosis on its lower edge, caused by the presence of a drainage tube. 1891 See Male Surgical Register, vol. iii. (1888), No. 2977*. 1679a. A Portion of the Lower Lobe of the Lung, showing exaggerated fibroid change in the pulmonary tissue. The lung is consolidated, its vesicles being occupied by a soft caseous material ; the bronchi are dilated and their walls are thickened. The changes were much more marked in the lower than in the upper lobe, indicating a basic phthisis. • 1888 Presented by Vincent Harris, M.D. BRONCHIECTASIS. 1679b. A Left Lung, showing marked dilatation of the Bronchi ; these have been laid open, and it is seen that three of the largest all lead into a considerable cavity situated at the base. The walls of the bronchi are much thickened, and there is an increased amount of fibrous tissue throughout the lower parts of the lung. The bronchi leading to the upper lobe are also dilated. The pleural surface of the lower lobes are covered by a thick " false membrane," and were in many places firmly adherent to the ribs and diaphragm. 1893 From a man, aged 32, who had general emphysema with many signs of old tubercular disease, including two abscesses in the brain. See Medical Post-Mortem Register, vol. xviii., p. 77.