DISEASES OF BONES. 17 357a. A Calvaria which has undergone much ulceration. The outer table is ulcerated over its whole extent, and several pieces of dead bone have fallen away and lie at the bottom of the bottle. The inner table is also ulcerated, but not to so great an extent. The bone is so soft that it can easily be cut with a knife. 1885 M., Kt. i2, who denied having had syphilis, and in whose body no evidence of the disease could be found after death. The scalp was entire, but for many months had felt puffy over an extensive area. When it was raised, a quantity of pus was found beneath it. The dura mater was entire, but there was a superficial abscess in the posterior part of the right cerebral hemisphere. The case was shown at the Pathological Society. See Pathological Sucieti/s Transactions, vol. xxxiv. (1883), p. 209. 360a. An Exostosis growing from the right cribriform plate of the ethmoid, close to the base of the crista galli. 1884 Presented by 0. B. Lockwood, Esq. 370a. Section of an Osseous Tumour of an elongated shape ; it was attached to the venter of the right ilium, and projected beneath Poupart's ligament, forming a rounded prominence in Scarpa's triangle. The tumour consists of a shell of osseous tissue, enclosing large spaces filled with soft, ill-developed connective tissue. It was removed by an operation from a man aged forty-six years, who had suffered from pain in the right knee and thigh for five months, and had noticed a swelling in the inner and upper part of the thigh for three months before his admission to the Hospital. He died of pyeemia. 1881 A cast of the groin is preserved, No. 6a.—See Darker Ward Book, vol. vii., p. 198. 370b. The other section of the same Tumour after maceration. 1881 375a. A flat Exostosis projecting from the inner surface of the Femur, near the Linea Aspera, at the junction of the lower and middle thirds. 1881 (In Case G.) 376a. A Large Exostosis removed from the shaft of the femur of a lad aged nineteen. It is composed of compact bone, surrounded by a thin layer of Cartilage, and had a very extensive base of attachment. 1883 385a. A Cancellous Exostosis, covered by a layer of cartilage, removed from the tarsal bones. 1882 400a. An Osteoma involving the entire right superior maxilla. A section of the growth is uniform throughout. 1881 The tumour showed under the microscope the ordinary structure of cancellous bone. Eemoved from a boy, aged 11 years, who had observed a swelling of the right upper jaw for two years.—See Barker Ward Book, vol. vii., p. 292. 410a. A portion of a Scapula, showing a large Enchondroma growing from the central portion of the spine. The tumour measures four inches in length by two inches in height ; it is pure white in colour and has a nodular glistening exterior, which appears to- be definitely encapsuled. The upper portion of the tumour is undergoing degeneration, and has broken down in its centre into a cavity, which, in the fresh condition, was filled with a mucous fluid. Microscopically the tumour consists of cartilage which in parts contains bone. There are no sarcomatous elements. 1889 From a man, aged 31 years. Seven years previously he noticed a small growth on his shoulder, which two years later proved, upon removal, to be an osteo-chondroma. The present growth appeared a year before it was removed. It formed a hard inelastic mass of the size of an orange, situated in the infraspinous fossa. It was fixed to the subjacent tissues, but the skin over it was freely movable. The scapula was excised, the patient making a good recovery. See Male Surgical Register, vol. iv. (1888), No. 802. c