153 DISPLACEMENTS OF THE INTESTINAL CANAL AND OMENTUM. 2164a. A portion of the Ileum in the neighbourhood of the ileo-c«cal valve, which has become strangulated by the formation of a band of adhesion, the result of peritonitis eight months before death. The patient had complete obstruction for a week ; abdominal section was performed, but he died unrelieved forty-eight hours after the operation. 1887 Presented by A. Maude, Esq. 2168a. A piece of the Small Intestine, communicating with which is a diverticulum four inches in length, which leads up to the umbilicas, i.e., a patent ompbalo- mesaraic duct. In the loop thus formed another piece of small intestine became fixed and strangulated, causing death from internal intestinal obstruction. A small opening at the umbilicus allowed the passage of a fine probe. In this opening a fine green glass rod has been placed. 1891 From a lad, aged 16, of whom the following history is given :—Up to twelve years of age matter of a more or less fsecal character was constantly passed from the umbilicus ; since then the opening had gradually closed and the discharge ceased. One night, at 11 p.m., he was suddenly seized with severe griping pains in the abdomen. He was seen the next afternoon by his doctor, who lived at a considerable distance. All the signs of acute intestinal obstruction were then present, but the patient was so collapsed that any operation was deemed inadvisable. He died the next day. At the post-mortom examination the condition described above was discovered. Presented by Dr. Hammersley. HERNIA INTO THE FOSSA INTERSIGMOIDEA. 2176a. A portion of the Ileum, with the Officum and Colon, from a case of strangulated hernia in which about six inches of the lower end of the ileum had passed through an opening (the foramen intersigmoideura) in the sheet of peritoneum which extends from the posterior surface of the sigmoid flexure to the left iliac fossa. The opening in the peritoneum is oval, its long diameter measuring about half an inch. It is situated close to the left side of the sigmoid flexnre, its lower margin being about an inch above and to the outer side of the sacro-iliac synchondrosis, and the same distance from the ovary. The opening leads into a sac of peritoneum having very thin walls, which were attached to, or continuous with, the margins of the opening. The sac is pyriform, measuring three inches in its long diameter, and it extends upwards and backwards beneath the large intestine. Its posterior surface is in contact with the iliacus and lumbar muscles, and was only loosely connected with them, but its anterior surface is adiierent to the peritoneum and posterior surface of the large bowel. The sigmoid flexure is nearly surrounded by peritoneum, but it has not a distinct mesentery, since the two layers of peritoneum reflected from it are nowhere in contact. Above the opening of the hernia the sigmoid flexure is bound down to the iliac fossa by three bands of thickened peritoneum. This portion of the intestine is displaced towards the middle line. The distended cjecum occupies a position immediately to the right of the middle line. (The ascending colon took a course obliquely across the abdomen to the left hypochondrium, where it turned sharply to the right and followed the course of the diaphragm until it reached the middle line ; it then bent upon itself and returned above and parallel to its former course as far as the lower edge of the spleen ; thence it took the usual direction to the sigmoid flexure). Both the ascending and descending portions of the large intestine are closely united and almost surrounded by a single layer of peritoneum. There is no transverse colon. Immediately above the cascum the ascending colon and the adjacent curve of the sigmoid flexure are bound together by a ribbon-like band of fibrous tissue three- quarters of an inch in breadth and half an inch in lengtli ; the adhesion to the sigmoid flexure is two inches below the level of the hernial opening. The ascending- colon is slightly narrowed by the tension to which the band gives rise, but the calibre of the lower bowel is unaltered. 1887