INJURIES TO JOINTS (DISLOCATIONS, &G.). 56 signs of injury where the head of the bone had impinged against it at the moment of dislocation, and there was a small piece of the articular cartilage lying loose in the joint. 1889 See St. Bartholomew's Hospital Reports, vol. xxiv., p. 163. Transactions of the Pathological Society, vol. xl., p. 235. CONGENITAL DISPLACEMENT (SO-CALLED DISLOCATION) OF THE HIP. 1050a. A Portion of the Right Innominate Bone with the Head and Neck of the Femur, from a case of congenital dislocation of the Hip. The ilium has been separated from the pelvis by a section carried obliquely through the obturator foramen at a point corresponding with the lower part of the acetabulum. A triangular space occupies the position of the normal acetabular cavity, but unfortunately only the apical portion is preserved. This space is partially covered with a thin layer of cartilage, the bone being in part bare. Upon the dorsum of the ilium, immediately above the apex of the triangle, is an irregularly depressed surface, which, in the recent specimen, was covered by fibrous tissue, and upon which the head of the femur rested during life. No attempt at the formation of a socket, however, has been made, nor has any new bone been thrown out in this situation. The iliac segment of the acetabulum, which extends from a point below the anterior inferior spinous process of the ilium obliquely backwards to the ischium, is entirely absent, and to this is to be attributed the triangular depression representing the acetabulum. The curvature of the sciatic notcli is remarkably altered owing to the extreme elongation of the lower and posterior portions of the innominate bone. Asa result of this elongation, the antero-posterior diameter of the bone extending from the spine of the ischium to the ilio-pectineal line is much shortened. There is a great smoothness and absence of muscular ridges on the ilium. The head of the femur is diminished in size, and is much altered in shape. It is ovoid and is flattened posteriorly, but it is everywhere covered by a layer of healthy articular cartilage, which shows no signs of ulceration. The ligamentum teres is completely absent, and there is nothing which would lead to the supposition that it had ever existed. The neck of the bone is shortened, and appears to be twisted slightly backwards upon its axis. Before maceration the head of the bone lay in a well-defined capsular ligament. 1887 From a girl. Caroline Gibbs, rot. 13 years, who died in St. Bartholomew's Hospital ou the 7th April, 1884, of a cancer of the stomach, which was exhibited at the Pathological Society. (See Transactions of the Pathological Society, vol. xxxvi., p. 195.) The lameuess was observed on admission, and in answer to inquiries after death, when the condition of the hip-joint had been ascertained, the father stated that this was the first child. The labour was easy and natural, no interference being required. Nothing wrong with the leg or hip-joint was noticed before the walking period. The lameness was not very noticeable until she was about three years of age. There had been no accident nor any symptoms or suspicion of hip-joint disease ; no pain on motion at any time. No other member of the family had been similarly affected. See Medical Post-Martem Booh, vol. xi.. p. 21. A drawing of the specimen will be found in Mr. W. Adams' work "On Congenital Displacement of the Hip-Joint." Churchill & Co., London, 1887. See also Transactions of the Pathological Society, vol. xxxviii., p. 295, and plate xv. DISLOCATION OF THE KNEE. 1051a. The Left Knee-Joint, in which the Tibia and Fibula have been dislocated backwards and outwards, whilst the Patella was dislocated upwards and outwards. There is a large rent in the capsule of the joint ou its inner side, whilst the internal lateral ligament is torn completely across. The vastus internus has been lacerated and some of the fibres of the sartorius are torn. The v?hole of the