URINARY CALCULI. 297 From a man, aged 61. The calculi were passed nearly seven years before the first attack of hrematuria. The patient was subsequently found to be infested with the Bilharzia hfematobia. It appears possible that the nucleus in this case naay consist of an embryo case of the Bilharzia. For further details of the case see St. Barthulomeio's Hospital Reports, vol. xxi. (1885), p. 89. 202a. Uric Acid Gravel in a somewliat unusual form. It is granular, the grains being of the size and shape of small shot. 1884 The gravel was passed by an out-patient, who had never suffered from gout and who had no stone. The symptoms had continued for twelve months. 209a. A Calculus, removed from the Kidney by the operation of nephro-lithotomy. It measures one and a half inches in length, and weighs sixty-eight grains. Chemical examination shows that it consists of urate of ammonium. The calculus is facetted at one extremity, and has evidently been formed in one of the renal calyces. . 1888 209b. A Calculus, removed from the Left Kidney by the operation of nephro- lithotomy. It weighed twenty-four grains, and consists principally of oxalate of calcium, but contains also a small amount of phosphate of calcium. 1890 From a woman, aged 22, who had had symptoms of renal calculus for about eighteen months. See Femide Su.fgical Bcgister, vol. ii. (1890), No. 104. CALCULI FROM THE URETER. 218a- An Irregular-shaped Calculus, removed after death from the ureter. It is composed chiefly of phosphate and carbonate of lime. 1883 From a woman, aged 27. The kidney on the left side Avas dilated into a large cyst filled with pus, which caused death by rupturing into the peritoneum. 218b. A Calculus, which lay unsuspected in the upper part of the right ureter. The stone measures half an inch in length by a quarter in breadth, and consists of a thin shell of uric acid surrounding a dark mass which ajjpears to be a blood-clot. The kidney was much disorganised. 1887 From a man who was brought to the Hospital on account of severe hasmorrhage from a cancerous ulcer of the tongue. He died on the day following his admission. See Mall' Sunjiml Bcfjister, vol. iv. (1887), No. 139. 219a. Six Calculi of various sizes, removed from the prostate gland. The largest is as big as a nut, the smallest about the size of a pea ; all are facetted. They are composed of about equal parts of phosphate and carbonate of lime. 1883 Presented by A. Willett, Esq. 219b. A large number of small Calculi, which were removed from the bladder at a single sitting by means of a Bigelow's evacuator. The calculi vary in size from a small shot to mere sand grains. They are all rounded, and in some cases are distinctly facetted. Chemical examination shows that they consist of calcium phosphate, magnesia, and a trace of uric acid. The entire mass weighs sixty grains. 1889 From a healthy man, aged 70 years. The patient was of a gouty diathesis, and for nine months had been under medical treatment on account of slight vesical symptoms, resulting from an inability to completely empty his bladder. Small calculi suddenly began to be passed in large numbers. Presented by Alfred Willett, Esq. 226a. A large number of small Calculi and Calculous Detritus, weighing seven hundred and sixty-four grains, removed from the bladder by median lithotomy, subsequent to a former operation of lithotrity. They are composed mainly of urate of ammonium. 1893