86 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF ARTERIES. its sheath in the greater part of its extent, but at its upper part the blood is only limited by the surrounding soft tissues, and in one place the walls have entirely dis- appeared and the blood has escaped. In several other places the walls of the sac are so thin as to be translucent. The lower part of the sac again opens into the external iliac by a circular aperture, through which a green rod has been passed. The portion of the external iliac which passes under Poupart's ligament is fairly healthy, but the common femoral is atheromatous, and is dilated to form a fusiform aneurysm, measuring when fresh about two inches in diameter and containing a soft clot. The rest of the femoral is healthy. 1887 From a man, ageil 35, who was admitted on account of an inguinal aneurysm, which had only been observed for five weeks. The patient was treated according to Tufnell's method for three weeks, when the artery suddenly gave way ; death from collapse occurring shortly afterwards. See 3Iale Surgical Register, vol. iii. (1885), No. 3326. 1546a. A Small Sacculated Aneurysm of the Dorsal Artery of the Left Foot. Its walls are extremely thin, and it could readily be emptied by pressure. The aneurysm and the arterial wall liave been divided to show the passive clot. 1889 From a man, aged 54, who had observed a pulsating tumour on the dorsum of his foot for three months. See 31ale Surgical Register, vol. ii. (1889), No. 8-i3. SPONTANEOUS CURE OF AORTIC ANEURYSM. 1548a. One Half of a Large Aneurysm of the Abdominal Aorta which has under- gone spontaneous cure. The sac, which is hemispherical in shape, measures three inches in its long diameter ; it has been cut through longitudinally with the portion of the aorta with which it was connected ; its cavity is nearly filled by a laminated whitish clot. This is firmly adherent above and below to the walls of the sac, which are much thickened at these situations : over the most prominent part the walls of the sac are separated from the clot by a narrow space which contained blood-stained fluid. There is a ragged irregular opening from the aorta into the sac, in front of which, and for an inch downwards between the aortic walls and the clot, is a space into which the blood current passed. The aneurysm was situated immediately below the diaphragm, and although both the oesophagus and pancreas passed in front of it, they were not adherent to it. 1892 The patient was a man, aged 34, who died from septicfemia. See Medical Post-Mortem Register, vol. xv., p. 280. 1551a. Iliac and Femoral Arteries, from a case in which the femoral artery had been ligatured in its continuity in Scarpa's triangle. The operation was performed six years and nine months before death, and effected tlie cure of a popliteal aneurysm. The site of the ligature is apparent just above the second black bristle, and from this point to the first bristle is a clot which is decolourised. Immediately above the aneurysm is another clot which has not yet become decolourised. The aneurysm itself has become converted into dense fibrous tissue. The vessel is throughout calcareous. It is patent between the seat of ligature and the cured aneurysm. 1885 A railway porter. Aneurysm of ten months' duration. It was very largo, filling the whole popliteal space so as to bulge out upon the inner side of the thigh. The leg was cedematous, the veins being varicose. Esmarch's bandage and digital pressure having failed to efiect a cure, the superficial femoral artery was tied with a carbolised silk ligature. Death resulted from pneumonia. See Henry Ward Booh, vol. vi., p. 396, and Medical Post-Mortcm Booh, vol. xi., p. 17. 1551b. Iliac, Femoral, and Popliteal Arteries, from a patient whose superficial femoral was ligatured for the cure of popliteal aneurysm six years before his death. At the seat of the ligature the vessel has become converted for a short distance into a fibrous cord. Between the point of ligature and the origin of the anastomotica