159 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE LIVER. 2199a. Section of a Liver in an early stage of cirrliosis. The lobules are well defined, and are coloured by the bile. 1882 From a girl, aged 18, who died with chronic peritonitis. Microscopic sections are preserved in Series Iv., No. 302. 2199b. The Liver of a child in a condition of extreme cirrhosis. The whole gland is much diminished in size, and weighed, when recently removed, only sixteen ounces; its surface presents a nearly uniformly corrugated or hob-nailed appearance ; this is most marked on the left lobe. 1891 From a boy, aged ten, who died in a condition of extreme emaciation after having been in the Hospital for three months. He had peculiar nervous symptoms, which were only partially explained by the post-mortem appearances. For details see Medical Post-Mortem Register, vol. xvii., p. 24, and Hos]}ital RejJoiin, vol. xxvi., p. 59 (1890). SYPHILIS. 2202a. Section of a Liver containing Gummata. 1882 From a boy who showed other traces of congenital syphilis. 2202b. The Liver from a boy, aged nine. Its surface is extremely irregular, and in several places it is puckered into deep scars. On section several large yellowish and tough masses of irregular outline were found, each being surrounded by a red zone of engorged liver substance. One of these masses is seen in section at the bottom of the bottle. Microscopic examination showed the masses to be large gummata, and in their vicinity here and there on the surface were minute collections of embry- onic connective tissue cells. 1887 From a boy who, with some intervals, had been in Luke Ward from December, 1883, to September, 1885. His most prominent symptoms were emaciation, ascites, and enlarged liver. He had a very sallow skin and well-marked Hutchinsonian teeth. The liver, kidneys, stomach, intestines, and spleen all showed advanced amyloid change. See Transactions of the Putliologiaal Society, vol. xxxviii., p. 271. 2202c. A Portion of a Liver showing on section numerous Syphilitic Gummata. The liver weighed four and a half pounds, and the surface was seamed in all direc- tions with large depressed scars, three or four of which are still seen. When freshly cut, the rounded nodules, most of which, but not all, were situated near the surface, were of a yellowish colour, and somewhat soft consistence, but nowhere breaking down ; they had a border of whitish connective tissue, which in some instances penetrated into the interior of the nodules : around a few of these was a zone of congested liver-tissue. There is a shaggy coat formed by partially adherent lymph over the lower part of the surface. 1890 From a man, aged 46, who was in the Hospital for seven weeks before his death. The abdominal lymphatic glands were enlarged, and he had chronic parenchymatous nephritis. See Medical Post-Mortem Register, vol. xiv., p. 264. "NUTMEG" LIVER. 2203a- A portion of atypical " nutmeg" Liver. It shows well the mottled appear- ance caused by chronic venous congestion. 1893 From a man, aged 41, who had extensive disease of the aortic valves. The heart weighed twenty-one ounces ; there were also double pleural efEusion and ascites. See Medical Post-Mortem Register, vol. xx., p. 51. 2204a. A section of Liver, showing a cystic dilatation of many of the bile capil- laries. The cysts are very numerous, and vary in size from a pin's point to a large pea. 1889 From a child who was burnt to death. Presented by Joseph Griffiths, M.D.