48 INJURIES OF BONES (fRACTUEEs). shaft presents no peculiarity, but its upper third is more bulky than natural, and there are a number of osteophytes along the whole length of its hinder part, as well as at the junction of its epiphysis with the sliaft. The ligaments of the hip were natural. The internal lateral ligament of the knee was especially well developed, but it presented no evidence of liaving been stretched ; the other ligaments were normal. The ligaments of the ankle were natural; there was no talipes valgus. 1889 (In Case D.) From a muscular man, aged 46 years. When the body lay upon its back vnth the legs extended and the internal condyles of the femur in contact, there was an interval of five inches between the inner malleoli. The right leg was the more deformed, and from the condition of the skin over the inner side of the left knee, it seemed proljable that it had over- lapped and rubbed against its fellow during progression. The soft parts of the limb were well developed, and, with the exception of some of the ligaments, presented no peculiarity. 807f. A Section through the Head of the Left Femur, from the !=ame patient as the preceding. The neck forms a complete right angle with the shaft. 1889 (In Case H.) The rest of the femur with the knee-joint was sent to the Anatomical Museum at Cam- bridge. The two preceding specimens were presented by C. B. Lockwood, Esq. 807g. The Left Femur of a Child, aged seven, on whom double Osteotomy (Mac- ewen's Operation) for Genu Valgum was performed tlu-eo years previously. The bone lias been sawn through longitudinally. It is markedly rickety with an antero-posterior curve at about the middle of the shaft. There is a thick deposit of compact bone along the lesser curve ; before the section was made, the exact seat of the fracture could not be determined. At a spot indicated by a small red cross, situated two inches and a quarter from the lower epiphysial line, faint traces of the fracture are still visible, viz., slight thickening of the cancellous tissue, especially towards the posterior aspect of the bone. It may seem at first sight that the spot indicated is farther from the knee-joint than that usually selected. It should be remembered that three years elapsed between the operation and the child's death, and that the growth of the bone takes place towards the epiphysis. 1890 (In Case H.) From a child who died in the Royal Free Hospital, Gray's Inn Road, of cerebellar abscess, on September 23rd, 1889. The osteotomy was performed in St. Bartholomew's Hospital on September 27th, 1886. See 3Iale Surgical Register, vol. i. (1886), No. 2780. Presented by James Berry, Esq. 813a. The Left Femur of a Pheasant, which has undergone an extremely oblique fracture in its upper third. The disi^lacement is antero-posterior, the upper portion being in front. Good union has taken place without the formation of ensheathing callus. 1889 Presented by B. W. WHlett, Esq. 817a. Portion of a Fibula wliicli has been fractured at the junction of its lower and middle third long before death. The two portions of the bone overlap ; they have been firmly united by bony substance deposited between their two surfaces. 1884 (In Case H.) Presented by G. W. Cookson, Esq. FRACTURES UNITED WITH DEFORMITY. 825a- A Eight Tibia and Fibula which have been fractured, and have united with considerable deformity. The tibia, which was broken at about the junction of the middle and lowest third, is united, but the lower end is displaced outwards and