DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE KIDNEYS, 184 2369a. A Portion of the Bladder, with the Right Kidney and Ureter. The kidney is little more than a membranous sac, owing to the entire absorption of its glandular substance. The pelvis is greatly dilated, and opens by two apertures into a dis- tended double ureter. The ureters run separately in the first half of their course, and then fuse into a single dilated tube. The muscular wall of the bladder is some- what hypertrophied. 1887 From a man, aged 47, who was admitted with extravasation of urine, resulting from a stricture of the urethra, which had existed for several years. See Male Surgical Register, vol. ii. (1886), No. 2067. 2369b. A Kidney, which is greatly enlarged, and is surrounded by a thick layer of dense fat. The glandular substance has been almost destroyed by large abscess cavities, and the ureter is plugged with fibrin. 1889 From a man, aged 46, who had a long-standing stricture of the urethra. The bladder and urethra are preserved in Series xl.. No. 2872b. See Male Surgical Register, vol. iv. (1888), No. 4012*. 2370a. The Bladder, Ureters, and Kidneys of a boy, aged seventeen years. The bladder is enlarged and greatly hypertrophied, and its mucous coat is ulcerated. The ureters are enormously distended and thickened, except at their entrance into the bladder, where they are of the normal size. The pelves and infundibula of the kidneys are widely dilated, thickened, and rough from a deposit of lymph upon their inner surfaces. The glandular substance has entirely disappeared. 1889 From a railway porter, who had phimosis. The constriction was so considerable that the point of a hair-pin could not be passed through it to the meatus urinarius. The patient died three days after he was circumcised. For twelve hours preceding his death he suffered from urEemic convulsions, with suppression of urine. Until the operation was performed he was able to do his work. Presented by J. H. Gilbertson, Esq. 2371a. A " Surgical Kidney." It is rather smaller than natural; its surface is irregular, and in parts torn where the capsule was adherent ; the pelvis and calyces are slightly dilated, and the mucous membrane lining them is discoloured and thickened. The gland, as a whole, is softened, and scattered throughout its sub- stance, but more particularly in the cortical portions, are numerous abscesses, varying in size from a pin's head to a nut. 1883 From an old man, who died a few days after lithotrity had been performed. The middle lobe of the prostate was enlarged, the mucous membrane of the bladder showed signs of recent and old inflammations, and the opposite kidney was in a similar condition to the present specimen, neither of the ureters were much dilated, but the mucous membrane of both showed signs of old inflammation. NEPHRECTOMY. 2372a. A Kidney, the smaller portion of which was removed by the operation of nephrectomy. AH trace of the normal shape of the organ is lost, the whole of it being dilated into cysts, and closely surrounded by, and adherent to, a mass of inflammatory tissue. A silk ligature mai'ks the place where the section of the kidney was made. 1882 From a man, who had been treated for stricture of the urethra, and had symptoms of obstruction to the escape of urine from the kidney. At the operation it was found impossible to remove the entire organ, on account of the close connections with the surrounding structures. The patient died the following day of suppression of urine. At the post-mortem, the opposite kidney was found contracted and granular, the prostate was slightly enlarged, but there was no appearance whatever of stricture of the urethra. The opposite ureter was normal. See Henry Ward Booli, vol. viii., p. 124 ; and account, by Mr. Marsh, in the Clinical Society's Trinisfictions; vol. xv., p. 140. 2372b. The Ureter and Bladder, from the same patient as the previous specimen. The upper portion of the former is enormously hypertrophied and dilated, and the