181 THEIR PELVES, AND THE URETERS. matter, which is inspissated, and is converted into a series of cysts, which open into a distended calyx. The ureter was thickened for about four inches, and contained a little curdy pus. 1888 From a woman, aged 47. See Female Surgical Register, vol. i. (1887), No. 1088. 2341 d. The Bladder and Kidneys, from a case of tuberculosis of the urinary tract. The kidneys are greatly enlarged. The right is converted into a series of cavities containing caseous matter, in one of which is a small piece of adherent calculous material. The left kidney is less diseased, but it contains numerous cavities, which are filled with caseous matter. The ureters are greatly distended, and their walls are covered with tubercular and caseating material. The bladder is only slightly hypertrophied, but its mucous coat behind the trigone is studded with recent grey tubercles, whilst the rest of its surface is coated with caseous material and ragged shreds of lymph. 1889 From a man, aged 2-i, who was admitted to the Hospital on account of tubercular disease. Neither testes nor prostate were afEected. A drawing of the kidneys and bladder is preserved in Series Ivii., No. 629. See Male Surgical Register, vol. ii. (1889), No. 547. NEPHROPHTHISIS IN ANIMALS. 2342a. Portions of the Kidney of an ox, affected with tubercular disease. The kidney substance is completely changed into a tuberculous mass, whilst numerous white nodules are seen upon its surface. In some parts of tlie lower specimen are zones of more or less completely calcified material. The kidneys were greatly enlarged. 1885 Upon microscopic examination, abundant groups of bacilli were found. The bacilli agreed in form, method of staining, and size, with the bacilli of tubercle in man. The morbid changes correspond with the descriptions of Perlsucht. This specimen was exhibited before the Pathological Society. Sections are preserved in Series Iv., No. 383. CALCULUS IN THE CORTEX OF THE KIDNEY. 2344a. A Kidney, having a good-sized rough calculus embedded in its cortex. The substance of the kidney does not appear to be inflamed, and except in the immediate neighbourhood of the stone, where the parenchyma has been absorbed by pressure, the gland is uninjured. 1886 The calculus does not seem to have given rise to any symptoms during life. 2345a. The Bladder and Kidneys, from a patient who had numerous renal calculi. The kidneys are much enlarged, especially the right ; both organs contain numerous calculi in their calyces. In the pelvis of each kidney, and extending downwards into the upper part of each ureter, is a branched calculus. The kidneys are little more than membranous sacs, owing to the distension which they have undergone. They contained a considerable quantity of glutinous pus. The bladder is normal. 1887 From a woman, aged 25, from whose bladder in early childhood a calculus had been re- moved. She had increasing symptoms of renal calculus, and died a few hours after admission to the Hospital. See Female Surgical Register, vol. ii. (1885), No. 2204. 2345b. The Left Kidney, which has been converted into a series of cysts, which were filled with pus and urine. A large branched stone extends from the pelvis into