CALCULI AND OTHER CONCRETIONS FORMED IN THE DIGESTIVE ORGANS. 301 245e. A small Salivary Calculus, weighing nine grains, and enclosed in a portion of Wharton's duct. 1889 From a woman, aged 26 years, who had a throbbing pain under her tongue for six months. See Female Surgical Register, vol. ii. (1889), No. 109. 266a. A section through a portion of a Gall-Stone. The cut surface has been rubbed smooth, and a thin piece of glass has been fixed to it by means of Canada Balsam, showing clearly the manner of formation by concentric deposits round a nucleus. 1891 Presented by Philip Hensley, M.D. 269a. Two Gall-Stones of irregular shape. They were discovered in the Gall-bladder after death. 1891 See Medical Post-Mortem Register, vol. xviii., p. 86. 274a. Biliary Calculi. The larger of the two is one and a half inches long and one inch in thickness ; it is cylindrical, and is facetted at both ends. The smaller one is broken ; its rounded extremity fits into the facet in the previous one. 1885 These calculi were passed, per anum, by a woman who had suffered for ten days previously from constipation. A year before passing these stones the patient had an attack of " con- gestion of the liver " with intense jaundice, but in the interval she had been free from hepatic trouble. Weight 3 drachms and 28 grains. Presented by G. H. Fosbroke, Esq., and Montague Smith, Esq. BILIARY CALCULUS IMPACTED IN THE INTESTINE AND REMOVED BY OPERATION. 2741). A Gall-Stone, removed from the small intestine, where, by its impaction, it had given rise to acute obstruction. The calculus is cylindrical in shape, and stained of a deep brown colour, which approaches to black at its extremities. One end is rounded, but the other is flattened, and has evidently lain in contact with a second calculus. The surface of the stone is tuberculated. and it has the soapy feel of cholesterin. It measures one and three-quarters inches in length, and three and three-quarters inches in circumference, and weighs 20.34 grammes. 1887 A drawing is preserved in Series Ivii., No. 1353. See also the Lancet, vol. ii. (1887), p. 1103. Presented by T. Smith, Esq. 274c. A portion of a Gall-Stone, removed by operation from the gall-bladder. It lay in a small sac with thickened walls, of very little larger size than the gall-stone. A section has been taken through the middle of the concretion, which is apparently composed of cholesterin. 1891 The patient was a gentleman, aged 65. He first had symptoms thirteen years previously, but these were ill-defined and vague. Latterly they had been acute. He died two days after the operation from hemorrhage. At the post-mortem examination it was found that the gall-bladder and cystic duct had become obliterated. The hepatic duct was patent and stained with bile. Presented by Alfred Willett, Esq. 281a. A Calculus, weighing sixty-eight grains, which was found, post-mortem, in the pancreas of a man, aged sixty. 1891 Presented by W. Maiden, M.D. 282a. A Fajcal Concretion, passed per anum. It has been sawn through, and shows numerous more or less concentric laminas. 1890 The patient, an elderly man, had suffered severe pain every time he went to stool for some months. The pain ceased after the passage of the concretion. Presented by the Kev. James Beck. X 2