DISEASES AND DEFORMITIES OF THE SPINE. 61 SARCOMA INVOLVING DORSAL VERTEBRA. 1132a. Portions of the Last Cervical and Four Upper Dorsal Vertebrse. The bones have been sawn through longitudinally, and on the cut surface it is seen that there is a flat oval swelling, measuring two inches in diameter, attached to the front of the three upper dorsal vertebrsB. The body of the second dorsal vertebra is the part most affected, and as a result of the disease it has diminished to less than one-half of its thickness. The tumour is homogeneous in section ; a portion of it is also seen in the neural canal, where it has pressed upon and displaced the spinal cord. Microscopical examination showed that it was a sarcoma. 1893 From a man, aged 46. Three months before death he first had paia iu Ms back and loins ; tliis increased rapidly, so that a mouth later he could not stand. He also suffered later on from difficulty in micturition and defiecation, and died from pneumonia. At the autopsy there was found a large mass in the posterior mediastinum, as well as the mass involving the vertebraj, to which the dara mater of the cord was adherent. Received in exchange from the Royal Free Hospital. 1136a. Fracture of the Odontoid Process of the Axis. 1885 From a groom, aged 35, who had been exercising a horse, and was found dead in the road without any visible injury except a slight extravasation on the back of the head. Post- mortem examination showed that the odontoid process had been fractured. The lower part of the medulla was destroyed by the pressure, and there was an extravasation of blood into the cord. Presented by H. Holdrich Fisher, Esq. 1140a. Section of Five Vertebraj which have been fractured by indirect violence. The body of the sixth cervical vertebra is displaced forwards, so that it overlaps the seventh by about a quarter of an inch. The laminte and spinous processes of the sixth are fractured. The dura mater is torn, and the cord is crushed inside the meiiinges. 1889 From a man, aged 42, who was run over by a hansom cab. On admission to the Hospital he had retention of urine and incontinence of fieces, with semipriapism. The reflexes were absent. He died five weeks after the accident, suffering from cystitis and suppurative nephritis. See Male; Surgical Regster, vol. iv. (1887), No. 3221. FRACTURE OF SACRUM. 1151a. The Right Half of the Lower Four Segments of a Sacrum. The bone has been sawn through longitudinally to lay open the spinal canal. The last segment of the sacrum and the coccyx have been comminuted ; the fracture extended up through the right sacro-iliac synchondrosis and laid open the dura-mater sheath of the cord, at the same time lacerating branches of the internal iliac artery.— (See below.) 1893 From a man, aged 52, who died with symptoms of compression of the brain. He came to the Hospital, and was admitted at 2.,30 P.M., after having fallen from a ladder. He was some- what collapsed but quite conscious, complaining of pain across the sacrum. He remained without definite symptoms until midnight, when convulsions set in accompanied by retraction of the head and clonic spasms of the arms. He became unconscious, and died in about ten minutes. At the autopsy no evidence was found of any injury to the skull. On opening the skull a great deal of blood was found in the subarachnoid space, so that the medulla and pons were surrounded by blood-clot; the brain itself was nowhere torn or contused. The source of the hfemorrhage was traced into the spinal meninges. There was a good deal of ecchymosis over the sacrum, and on incision much blood was found in the muscles. There was no fracture of the cervical, dorsal, or lumbar vertebrte. but the lowest segment of the sacrum and the upper portion of the coccyx wej'e comminuted, and the fracture extended obliquely through the right sacro-iliac synchondrosis, and the right innominate bone. It was found that the spinal canal had been opened, and the dura mater of the cord had been torn at the seat of fracture. The spinal canal was filled with blood, which extended beneath the dura mater from the sacrum to the occiput. It had escaped from branches of the internal iliac artery, which had been torn across. See Male Surgical Register, vol. ii. (I89I), No. 143, and Surgical Post-Mortem Register for 1891, p. 5,