DISEASES AND INJURIES OF ARTERIES. 77 RUPTURE OF ARTERIES. 1384a. Portion of a Brachial Artery. The internal and middle coats have been torn away from the external, and lie contracted, occluding the lumen of the vessel. The external coat is intact. 1882 From a man who sustained a compound fracture of the left humerus, about three inches below the shoulder. There was no arterial hremorrhage, or swelling of the arm, but the forearm and hand rapidly became cold and livid. No pulse could be felt in the brachial artery below the seat of fractuie, and on amputation being performed a few hours after the accident, the vessel was found occluded, as seen in the specimen, and the blood in it had already commenced to clot. See Pitcairn Ward Book, vol. vii., p. 286. 1384b. A Popliteal Artery and Vein. The lower parts of the vessels are bruised and discoloured, as is also the surrounding cellular tissue. A small lacerated wound is seen in the artery about an inch from its inferior extremity, extending through the inner and middle coats. 1882 From a man, aged 22, who received a compound fracture of the femur ; the lower frag- ment was found compressing the artery, and, during life, stopped its pulsation. Presented by W. Bruce-Glarke, Esq. 1384c. A Subclavian Artery, the inner and middle coats of which have been ruptured. The patient, a woman aged seventy, received a severe injury to her right shoulder, causing a fracture of the clavicle and first rib. On admission into the hospital, no pulse could be felt in the vessels of the arm. She died the next day, when it was found that the middle and inner coats of the vessel had been ruptured, and that, on the distal side of the injury, they had been stripped oflf the outer coat and invaginated forwards by the current of the blood, thus causing complete blocking of the lumen of the vessel : on the proximal side, the middle and inner coats are undisturbed. 1890 See Female Surgical Register, vol. v. (1890), No. 847. A drawing of the artery in the recent state is preserved in Series Ivii., No. 201. THROMBOSIS. 1393a. The Transverse part of the Arch of the Aorta, with the Subclavian and Axillary Arteries, from a man in whom the subclavian had been ligatured for axillary aneurysm eighteen months previously. The operation was followed by secondary hemorrhage, and amputation was performed at the shoulder-joint. The subclavian is completely occluded just outside the origin of the thyroid axis, the branches of which are patent ; a small blood-clot adheres to the wall of the vessel between the seat of ligature and this trunk. On the distal side of the ligature the superior inter- costal arises, and was found patent throughout its course. Prom the remainder of the artery, between the seat of ligature and the stump, several other branches are given off, all of them being patent. The clot formed in the artery where it is tied on the face of the stump is continuous with that formed at the original seat of ligature, the two being connected by a long thin band of decolorised fibrin, floating free in the artery to a great extent, but adherent by its extremities. This clot appears to be of old formation. About two inches above the stump the artery is the seat of an aneurysmal dilatation. 1883 1430a. The Heart and part of the Aorta of a child, aged five years. The mitral and aortic valves are thickened, and the latter are, in addition, partly destroyed by ulceration and covered by small masses of fibrin. Immediately beyond the valves the aorta presents two patches of ulceration, the largest being about the size of a sixpence, the smaller as big as a split pea. The floor of the former is irregular, and is mainly formed by the middle coat, the subjacent pericardium being thickened and closely adherent. The smaller ulcer has penetrated through more than half the