SEEIES X. DISEASES A.m INJURIES OE THE lARTIfX AID TRACHEA. GOUT. 1611a. A Larynx, from a patient wlio suffered from gout in many of his joints. In tlie submucous tissue over the crico-arytamoid articulations are deposits of urate of soda ; the surrounding tissues appear healthy and the articulations themselves are not affected. 1882 See account of case by Dr. Moore, in Pathological Society's Transactions, vol. xxxiii., p. 271. ACUTE LARYNGITIS. 1612a. The Larynx, with the base of the Tongue and a portion of the Trachea, from a patient, aged twenty-eight, who died with acute laryngitis. The mucous membrane covering the epiglottis and lining the upper part of the glottis is swollen, and appears to be thickened. The openings of the ventricles of the larynx appear as mere slits, in consequence of the swelling of the mucous membrane. The sub- glottic portion of the larynx is superficially ulcerated. The site of a tracheotomy wound made during life is seen in the upj^er portion of the trachea. 1888 See Lazarus Ward Book for 1887, No. 2694. A portion of the skin of the leg is preserved in Series xxxv., No. 2703a. 1614- The Larynx, from a case of oedematous laryngitis. The epiglottis is swollen, its edges meeting behind, excepting just at the upper part. The pharynx is in- flamed and the posterior surface of the uvula is A^esicated, whilst its junction with the left side of the pharynx is ulcerated. There is extreme oedema of the whole of the glottis, the swelling of the mucous membrane being so great as almost to occlude the superior opening of the glottis. The right tonsil is swollen and ulcer- ated, whilst the left is normal. A portion of the thyroid and cricoid cartilages has been removed to show the narrowing of the subglottic portion of the larynx. 1889 From a man, aged 60 years, who was first affected with painful and difficult deglutition on March 31st, 1811. On the following morning he was unable to swallow, and in the evening of the same day his respiration suddenly became so difficult that it was considered adviseable to bleed him to the extent of thirty-two ounces. At two o'clock in the morning of April 2nd the symptoms were so urgent that Mr. Astley Cooper was called in to perform the operation of laryngotomy, after which the dyspncEa became less urgent. The patient died, however, on the same day. The autopsy was made by Mr. Astley Cooper. See a paper on Cynanche Laryngea, by Dr. Farre, read before the Medico-Chirurgical Society, on February 18th, 1812, and reported in the Medico-Chivurgiml Transactiont, vol. ill., p. 86, and plate iii. Presented by J. K. Farre, M.D. 1622a. The Larynx and Trachea of a child in whom an ulcer in the trachea, following on tracheotomy for diphtheria, spread into the innominate artery, and caused death from hajmorrhage. The trachea has been laid open from behind, showing the site of the tracheotomy wound. Although this had healed externally, ulceration had continued around it