DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE LARYNX AND TRACHEA. 97 1656c. Tlie Left Half of a Larynx and Upper Part of a Trachea : it shows a large mass involving, and with the exception of a narrow space, through which a tracheotomy tube passed, completely blocking the whole of the larynx : the growth also protrudes through and around the tracheotomy wound, and has involved the skin in the neighbourhood : neither the epiglottis nor the oesophagus were affected. 1891 From a man, aged 43, whose larynx was opened three months before death on account of an epithelioma Avhich arose mainly from the left vocal cord. The disease was freely removed, but rapidly returned ; there were no secondary deposits. See Male Surgical Register, vol. ii. (1889), No. 1621. 1656d.. A Larynx on which excision of the vocal cords was performed on account of epithelioma : it has been laid open from behind. The situation of the left vocal cord is occupied by an excavated irregular ulcer, which extends down to, and exposes, the thyroid cartilage. A similar ulcer, but a less extensive one, has involved the anterior half of the right cord. A tracheotomy wound is surrounded by a large abscess cavity between the front of the trachea and the skin. 1892 The patient veas a man, aged 60. See 3Iale Surgical RegiMer, vol. ii. (1889), No. 1593. 1659a. The Larynx of a child upon whom the operation of tracheotomy was per- formed for the relief of dyspnoea caused by diphtheria. On the anterior surface of the trachea the mucous membrane had become ulcerated from the presence of a badly-fitting metal tube : this has resulted in the formation of a kind of valve, which became engorged and caused a fit of coughing with fatal termination. 1891 A drawing of the larynx, when fresh, is preserved in Series Ivii., No. 233. See Surgical Post-Murtem Register (1890), p. 22. STENOSIS OF THE LARYNX FOLLOWING TRACHEOTOMY. 1659b. The Larynx and Trachea, laid open from behind, of a child, aged five years, on whom tracheotomy was performed six months before death. Above the vocal cords the tissues appear normal ; from this point downwards there is great thicken- ing, causing so much narrowing of the rima glottidis that a probe could only be passed through with difficulty. Below the tracheotomy wound there is a slight superficial ulcer on the anterior wall of the trachea, caused by the constant rubbing of a badly-fitting tube, 1893 See Medical Post-Mortem Register for 1890, p. 332. 1659c. The Laiynx and Trachea of a child, laid open from behind, showing a small button-like mass of granulations on the anterior surface of the upper part of the trachea, 1893 The child, on whom tracheotomy had been performed one month previously, died suddenly from asphyxia, caused apparently by the entrance of vomited food into the trachea and lungs. See Medical Post-Mortem Register, vol. xviii., p. 321. FOOD IMPACTED IN THE LARYNX. 1660a. A Laiynx and the upper part of the Trachea completely filled with a large mass of meat. 1881 The specimen was taken from the body of a man, who, while laughing and talking during a wedding breakfast, choked, and suddenly expired. 1660b. The Larynx and Upper Part of the (Esophagus of a man who was brought dead to the hospital : the specimen has been laid open from behind, disclosing a mass of partly masticated bread which is firmly impacted at the upper part of the oesophagus, and effectually closes the entrance to the larynx. 1892 H