DISEASES AND INJURIES OP THE EYE AND ITS APPENDAGES. 219 26511). The Anterior Portion of- the Left Eye, showing a piece of spectacle glass firmly lodged between the remains of the lens and the margin of the ciliai-y processes. The anterior chamber was filled with cholesterin. 1888 From a gentleman, aged 27, whose spectacles were broken by a blow from a stone seven years before removal of the eyeball. An irictectom.y was performed one month after the injm'y, and after a taumatic cataract had formed. A year after the iridectomy the capsule of the lens was divided with two needles. For six years the eye gave no trouble, but it was then affected with repeated attacks of inflammation, and the right eye showed signs of sympathetic irritation. The patient made a good recovery. A drawing is preserved in Series Ivii., No. 754. See Allert Ediourd, Ward Book for 1887, No. 3773, and iS'^. Bartholomew's Hospital Reports for 1889, vol. xxiv., p. 201. 2651c. A Section through an Eye, showing a wound in the cornea and a piece of metal embedded in the vitreous humour. The vitreous round the fragment has suppurated. 1889 From a wheelwright, aged 28. The metal was cold when it entered the eye. It had remained for nineteen days, giving rise to great pain and congestion. Presented by Henry Power, Esq. 2660a. An Eye, in which the Retina is completely detached, forming a cord stretching from the entrance of the optic nerve to the cornea. The lens is dislocated downwards, and attached to the anterior termination of the detached retina. 1882 2663a. A Section through an Eye, showing a New Growth in the chamber of the vitreous. When the section was made, the tumour, which occupied the greater part of the vitreous, was seen to spring from the optic disc, and to be attached there by a narrow pedicle. This portion was removed for microscopical examination, and it was found that the tumour, which is seen to have extended forwards as far as the lens, was a small-celled sarcoma with branching villous processes, but with no inter- cellular stroma. 1890 From a child, aged one and a half, in whom the tumour had been noticed for some months. The eye was blind. See Alexandra Ward Female Begister (1889), No. 1965. A microscopical section is preserved in Series Iv., No. 499, and a drawing of the eye, before removal, in Series Ivii., No. 744. Q