SERIES IX. DISEASES A.M IIJTJRIES OE THE TEISS. VARICOSE VEINS. 1576a- Portions of the Internal Saphenous Vein, removed by operation for the cure of varicose veins of the leg. They show well the dilated and tortuous condition of the vessel, with the formation of distinct pouches in places ; for the most part, and except in the walls of the pouches, the coats of the vein are considerably thickened, 1891 THROMBOSIS. 1578a. A Right Iliac Vein filled with a Thrombus, which, though firm in some parts, is breaking down in others. 1884 From a woman who had phlegmasia dolens, and died of pyremia four weeks after delivery. The uterus is preserved in Series xlvi., No. 3094a, and the heart in Series vii.. No. 1271a. 1588a. The Heart with the Great Vessels attached to it. The aorta and the superior vena cava are normal, but the innominate veins, the internal jugulars, and the sub- clavians, as well as the anterior and external jugulars, are filled with clot which is adherent to the walls of the vessels. The thrombosis on the right side is rather firmer than that on the left. A small mass of coagulum projects into the superior vena cava, but it is not adherent to its wall. The internal jugular and subclavian veins where they are cut across are seen to be filled with a firm clot. In the heart there is much enlargement of the right auricle and ventricle. The mitral orifice is thickened, and is narrow and button-hole shaped. The left ventricle is enlarged, though not to so great an extent as the right ventricle, and its walls are somewhat thickened. The aortic valves are shortened, and are each provided with a fringe of. soft new growths. 1889 From a stevedore, aged 18, who, in addition to the thrombosis and mitral stenosis, had a double pleural eSusion with collapse of the lungs. The azygos and superior intercostal veins were large and patent. He had rheumatic fever one year previously. See Luke Ward Book for 1889, No. 19. See Transactions of the Pathological Society, vol. xl., p. 75. 1589a. A Portion of the Left Parietal and Occipital Bones with the lateral sinus in situ. The sinus is occupied in its whole extent by a thrombus. 1889 From an old man, whose body was brought to the Hospital for purposes of dissection. All the sinuses in his skull were filled with blood-clot, and his brain presented symptoms of long-standing meningitis. 1600a. Two Kidneys, the veins of which are filled with partially decolourised, friable clot. 1882 From a woman, who died a fortnight after labour, and in whom the iliac veins and vena cava inferior were found similarly plugged.