267 DISEASES OF THE MAMMARY GLAND. 3161c. A Lobulated Fibroma, removed from the breast. The tumour consists of a soft fibrous tissue, which is divided up into small lobules by septa of connective tissue. A fibrous capsule invests the whole mass. Microscopic examination showed that the tumour consisted of dense fibrous tissue without any trace of gland substance. 1886 From a woman, aged 28, in whom the tumour had been growing for two years. After removal she made a good recovery. See Female Simjical Register, vol. ii. (1885), No. 563. 316Id. A Portion of a Mammary Gland, showing two large cysts filled with intra- cystic growth. The largest cyst is circular in outline, and measures two inches in circumference ; it has a well-defined outline, and its lower part is occupied by a firm white intra-cystic growth. Microscopically, this growth is a nearly pure fibroma, containing in some parts an excess of connective tissue and myxoma cells. The free surface of the tumour is covered by a layer of flattened epithelial cells. Both cysts contained blood, which has been coagulated into a dense clot by the action of the spirit in whicli the specimen is preserved. 1888 From a married woman, aged 48, with no children. She fell upon the right breast three months previously. See Female Surgical Register, vol. iv, (1887), No. 2697*. MYXO-SARCOMA. 3162a. A portion of a Mammary Gland. Immediately below the nipple, which is much retracted, there is a tumour, affecting the greater part of the gland, and com- posed of a series of cysts with tough fibrous walls, which are mostly filled by irre- gular pedunculated growths. On microscopical examination these were found to be myxo-sarcomatous in character, and to contain no gland tissue. 1892 See Female Surgical Register, vol. ii. (1890), No. 2076. Microscopical sections of the tumour are preserved in Series Iv., No. 648a. 3163a. A portion of a large Sero-cystic Sarcoma of the female breast. The cyst wall has been separated from the intra-cystic growth, and rods have been placed between the two to show that for a greater part of their extent they are not fused. Microscopic examination showed that the growth was a fibro-sarcoma. 1886 From an unmarried lady, aged 49, who had one-tenth of albumin in her urine at the time of the operation. The tumour had been growing for seven years. After removal it weighed seven pounds. The patient made an excellent recovery. Presented by J. Langton, Esq. 3163b. A portion of a very large Sero-cystic Tumour of the breast. The growth is encapsuled by firm fibrous investment, which sends trabeculie inwards. The cysts are numerous but small, and the whole tumour has a somewhat fibrous appearance. Microscopically, it consists of numerous cysts enclosed in a framework of connective tissue. 1888 3163c. One half of a large Fibro-Sarcoma of the Mammary Gland, which has under- gone calcification through its greater part; it is so hard that it could only be cut with a saw. 1890 Kemoved by operation from a woman, aged 46, who had noticed the tumour for four years. See Female Surgical Register, vol. v. (1890), No. 234. 3164a. One half of a Breast, removed by operation. It contains a large rounded tumour, which is not encapsuled, and which has numerous extravasations of blood in its substance. The growth is situated in the lower segment of the breast, and has fungated ; the upper part of the breast and the nipple appear to be healthy. Microscopically, the tumour was of a sarcomatous nature. 1889 T