74 DISEASES AND INJUEIES OF THE HEART FROM ANGINA PECTORIS. 1306a,- The Heart from a man, aged fifty-six, who liad suffered from repeated attacl^s of angina pectoris. The organ vTeighs twenty-one and a half ounces. AW its cavities are dilated and hypertrophied. The aortic valves are shortened and thick- ened, and they had upon them two soft growths which could readily be detached. The orifices of the coronary arteries are extremely small, a glass rod has been passed into them, and they have been dissected out for a part of their course. The aorta is very atheromatous. The chordaj tendineaj of the mitral valve are shortened and thickened, but there are no adhesions and no growths. The cords therefore appear as if the shortening were due to some malformation and not to morbid change. See Medial Post-Mortem Sooli, vol. xi., p. 181. 1887 1316a. A Heart in which all the cavities are greatly dilated. It weighs twenty-four ounces. The right ventricle is dilated, but is not greatly hypertrophied. The tricuspid valve is stenosed, so that it barely admits two fingers, and its edge is thickened. The calibre of the pulmonary artery is much larger than usual, as it measures one inch more in diameter than the aorta. One of the pulmonary valves is absent, a commencing aneurysm occupying its situation. The aortic valves are normal, whilst the mitral orifice is somewhat dilated. The pericardium was natural. 1888 From a nulliparous married woman, aged 23, who was admitted with general dropsy and dyspnoea. She had passed through an attack of scarlet fever in early life : there was no history of rheumatism. She had suffered from dyspnoea from the age of fourteen. On admis- sion to the Hospital, the cardiac impulse was diffused, and the apex-beat was outside the left nipple-line. A presystolic murmur, followed by a systolic one, was heard at the apex. A systolic murmur with accentuation of the second pulmonary sound was audible in the right ventricle. See Elizateth Wavd Boolt for 1887, No. 195, and Transactions of the Climoal Society, vol. xxi., p. IIJ:. A drawing of the heart is preserved in Series Ivii., No. 176. ULCERATIVE ENDOCARDITIS. 1324a. The Heart of a child, aged four years. The left ventricle has been laid open, disclosing a large deposit of vegetations on the auricular surface of the large flap of the mitral valve. Microscopical examination of this mass showed that it contained a very large number of micro-organisms. 1893 See lledical Post-Mortem Register, vol. xix., p. 305. 1330a. A Heart from a fatal case of Chorea. On the auricular surface of the edges of both cusps of the mitral valve there is a row of small granulations completely surrounding the orifice. When fresh, some of these felt soft to the touch, others were rather firm. In other respects the heart is normal. 1892 From a girl, aged 16. See jlledical Post-Mortem Rerjister, vol. xvii., p. 353, 1348a- A portion of the Left Ventricle of the Heart, with the commencement of the Aorta. The aortic orifice is greatly narrowed, whilst the aortic valves, as a result of inflammation, are dilated and perfectly rigid from calcification. Tliere are only two cusps to the valves, but this appears to be due to the inflammatory process having caused ulceration of the adjacent margins of the valves, which subsequently became fused. The arterial surfaces of the valves present knobs of earthy material surmounted by small masses of fibrin. 1886 From a man, aged 82, who died from pneumonia, and who had a serous effusion into the Presented by H. Parker, Esq. 1359a. A Heart with commencing aneurysm of the aortic valves. The left ventricle is much hypertrophied and dilated. Thei e is a circular eroded patch about two lines in diameter upon the anterior cusp of the left auriculo-ventricnlar valve. This