DISEASES OF BONES. 16 internal condyle is a large nodular outgrowth of cartilage about an inch in length. On the most convex part of the same condyle is a small mass of fibrillated cartilage. With these exceptions the rest of the cartilage on this condyle is normal. The cartilage covering the patella is rough and fibrillated, whilst that crossing the upper extremity of the tibia is very slightly roughened. The ligaments of the joint are normal. 1886 Drawings are preserved in Series Ivii., No. 29a. 315a. A SkuU-Cap in which a large portion of the outer table of the Frontal Bone and of the whole thickness of the Parietal Bones has ulcerated. The bone is rough and tuberculated, presenting the features which are characteristic of advanced syphilitic disease. The sutures between the bones have disappeared. 1888 (In Case F.) From a man, aged 25, who was probably congenitally affected with syphilis. He died of Bright's disease and oedema of the glottis. He does not appear to have been treated with mercury. See Male Surgical Register, vol. i. (1886), No. 713. 322a. A Skull-Cap showing Syphilitic Ulceration of the same character as that seen in specimen No. 322. It affects the whole surface of the frontal bone, the pos- terior portion of the parietal bone, and extends along the sagittal suture. The disease commenced, apparently, by absorption around the minute blood-vessels, and affected the substance as well as the surface of the bone ; the ulcerated surfaces were filled, in the recent state, with yellow gummatous material. The whole bone is thickened and heavy ; and patches of vascularity, with slight ulceration upon the inner surface, correspond to the ulcerations on the external surface of the bone. 1881 (In Case F.) From a man, aged 44 years, who died with syphilis. There were two ulcerated patches on the scalp, at the vertex, covered with scabs. The surface of the liver was puckered, and scarred by cicatrices.—See Post-3Iortem Booh, vol. viii., p. 241. 329a. A Tibia which has become thicl?ened and bent as a result of Chronic Syphilitic Osteitis. The anterior portion of the shaft presents a rough oval node, which marks the situation of a long-standing ulcer. Below the node are several irregular thickenings of the bone. 1888 (In Case F.) 340a. A Calvaria showing a Node upon its Outer Surface. On the inner side of the right parietal bone is a bare patch, corresponding to which there was a dense local thickening of the dura mater, which appeared to be a partially degenerated gumma. 1885 (In Case F.) From a woman, aged 40, the subject of visceral syphilis. See Transactions of the Patho- logical Society, vol. XXXV. (1884), p. 233. The intestines are preserved in Series xviii., No. 2007a. 340b. A Calvaria thickened and ulcerated as a result of long-standing Syphilis. 1885 (In Case F.) 347a. Radius and Ulna, with a deposit of newly-formed bone, resulting from Syphilitic Periostitis. 1884 350a. Part of the Skull of a child with Natiform Protuberances. 1884 (In Case F.) For an account of the case, by Dr. Norman Moore, sec the Pathological Society's Transactions for 1884, p. 282. A photograph of the skull is preserved, Series Ivii., No. 57a.