DISEASES OF THE TESTICLE, ITS COVERINGS, AND OF THE SPERMATIC CORD. 231 nodules consist of hyaline cartilage with a slightly fibrillated matrix, whilst the softer parts consist of a fibrous and homogeneous stroma containing numerous round and oval connective tissue cells. The cysts are formed from the glandular substance of the testis ; they are lined with a layer of columnar epithelial cells. 1888 From a clerk, aged 28, who first noticed a swelling in his left testicle five years before his admission to the Hospital. The swelling was painless, and only caused inconvenience by its weight. It was densely hard. There was no enlargement of the spermatic cord nor of the glands, and the skin over it was not adherent. The patient died ten mouths after the opera- tion from a recurrence of the growth in the abdominal viscera. See Male Surgical Register, vol. it. (1886), No. 2i87. 2797f. A Testicle, with the Epididymis and a portion of the Spermatic Cord. The epididymis is greatly thickened and enlarged by a new growth, which appears to have spread by continuity into the body of the testis. The new growth has not infiltrated the vessels, which are numerous. Microscopically, it is a round-celled sarcoma. 1889 From a gentleman, aged 58, who noticed a swelling in his left testicle for three months before it was removed. The enlargement gave him no pain, but there was a feeling of dis- comfort owing to the weight of the organ. The tumour was hard, and was accompanied by a hydrocele. Presented by G. Lowe, Esq. 2797g'. A Section of a Testicle and Epididymis, which was removed four months before the death of the patient, on account of a sarcomatous growth which infil- trated it. The testicle itself is comparatively little affected, but the epididymis is very greatly enlarged, and is converted into a solid mass of new growth. Micro- scopically, the tumour is a typical sarcoma, the cells being oval and short spindle- shaped. 1889 From a patient, aged 21 years, who had noticed a swelling for five months. Four months after the testis was removed the patient died from sarcoma of the omentum. The new growth appeared to have spread upward along the spermatic cord, and to have become diffused over the mesentery and omentum. There were no enlarged lymphatic glands. A portion of the omentum is preserved in Series xvi., Nos. 1886b and 1886c. See Male Surgical Register, vol. iv. (1888), No. 1294. SARCOMA AFFECTING- A RETAINED TESTIS. 2797h.. Section of a Tumour, which involved a retained testis. The tumour is oval in shape, measuring three inches and a half in length by two and a half in breadth. It is of a white colour—grey when fresh—firm, bulging, and of one character throughout. It does not contain any cartilage. A septum of fibrous tissue appears to mark off what has been epididymis from what was the body of the testis. Microscopically, the growth is a mixed-celled sarcoma. 1889 From a married gentleman, aged 45. His right testis never came properly into the scrotum; he had worn a truss for many years, and appeared to have an interstitial hernia. A swelling had been suspected for two years, but its increase became obvious during the four months preceding the operation. On examination, a tumour was found in the right iliac and inguinal regions, having its centre above the internal ring, and a little lower than the um'^ilicus. The patient died five days after the operation. Presented by Thomas Smith, Esq. 2797i. A Section through a Sarcoma, which has infiltrated an undescended testis. The new growth has a firm, white appearance, and has completely surrounded and infiltrated the testis, whose outline as an oval spongy mass is visible at the upper part and right-hand side of the preparation. Microscopical examination showed it to be a round-celled sarcoma. , 1889 The tumour was removed from the right ilio-lumbar region of a man, aged 49. The right testicle had never fully descended, but until eight months before its removal it could be dis- tinctly felt in the canal. Shortly after this time its presence was masked by the growth of