29 DISEASES OF JOINTS. From a lady, aged 67, who experienced, on October 10th, a sudden attack of pain in the knee, followed by an efEusion wliich, on account of the subsequent ecchymosis over the joint, was supposed to have been of blood. The symptoms of chronic arthritis subsequently set in, and the limb was removed on March 10th in the following year. Two months before amputation the joint was tapped, and clear synovial fluid was removed. During the whole period of the joint-disease the patient got up daily, and absolutely refused to wear any splint. A drawing of the joint as it appeared immediately after removal is preserved in Series Ivii., No. 75. See Transactions uf the Pathological Society, vol. xxxviii., p. SH. Presented by Thomas Smith, Esq. 569c. A Knee-Joint exhibiting typical Tubercular Synovitis (Pulpy Degeneration). Nearly the whole of the articular surfaces are overgrown by the thickened synovial membrane. The articular cartilages everywhere appear healthy, and no morbid change is visible in the bones. 1888 From a man, aged 34, whose left knee became swollen and painful two years before the amputation was performed. See Mule Surgical Register, vol. iii. (1887), No. 631. 570a. The Left Hip-Joint, showing the changes which occur at an early period of Tubercular Arthritis. The cartilage covering tlie head of the femur is eroded on its anterior surface close to the neck. The Hgaments are softened and the synovial membrane is slightly thickened, but it was not hypersemic. 1888 From a woman, aged 33, who died of exhaustion consequent upon necrosis of the sacrum. At the time of her admission to the Hospital there was considerable thickening of the tissues about the great trochanter. The movements of the hip-joint were good, except that external and internal rotation were limited. See Female Surgical Register, vol. iv. (1885), No. 1762. 570b. The Right Haunch-Bone with a portion of the Femur, from a case of Hip- Joint Disease. The capsule has been divided, and the cartilage is undergoing ulceration, and can readily be separated from the subjacent inflamed bone. The ligamentum teres has entirely disappeared and the synovial membrane is pulpy. The head of the femur is greatly altered in shape, but it is not necrosed, and was not dislocated during life. 1889 Presented by James Berry, Esq. SENILE TUBERCULOSIS. 570c. The Left Hip-Joint, laid open from the front, and showing, as the result of prolonged suppuration, complete destruction of the Head and of a considerable portion of the Neck of the Femur. The cartilage round the margin of the acetabulum is eroded, and there is a perforation at the deepest part of the socket, through which pus had tracked into the pelvis. 1892 The patient was a woman, aged 53, who had suffered from pain in the left hip for nine months previous to her admission into the Hospital. She then had all the signs of acute hip- disease. The joint was incised and pus evacuated. Her general health rapidly became worse, and she died three months later from exhaustion. The post-mortem examination showed that both lungs, both adrenals, the right kidney, and several abdominal lymphatic glands were the seat of advanced tuberculosis. The lymphatic glands are preserved in Series xxiv.. No. 2284a. See Female Surgical Register, vol. iv. (1890), No. 143. 576a. A portion of the Left Tibia from a case of acute inflammation occurring after the removal of a Myeloid Sarcoma. The synovial membrane is thickened and pulpy, being covered with shreds of flaky coagulated lymph. In the head of the tibia is a large cavity communicating with the exterior by an extensive aperture. The roof of this cavity is formed by the internal semilunar cartilage covered by a thin shell of necrosed bone. In the cartilage is an opening as large as a sixpence, which brings the cavity into direct connection with the knee-joint. 1886