75 PERICAEDIUM AND OF THE HBAET. patch is surrounded by granulations. There is a commencing aneurysm of this valve. The aortic valves are quite incompetent ; they are thickened and adherent at their edges and bases. The edges are jagged. 1885 For further details see Post-Mortem Bouh, vol. x., p. 97. 1359b. First part of the Arch of the Aorta, showing a commencing aneurysm in the sinus of Valsalva. The arterial wall has undergone atheromatous changes at some distance above the sigmoid valves. 1885 1359c. A Portion of the Left Ventricle of the Heart with the commencement of the Aorta. The aortic valves are thickened and stretched, and immediately above them is an aneurysm of the size of a Tangerine orange. The aneurysm rested upon the right auricle, but was not situated wholly within the pericardium. Its wall is lined with numerous calcareous plates, but it contained no clot. The opening of the coronary artery is situated at some distance back in the aneurysm. 1887 From a woman, aged 46, who was never known to have had rheumatic fever. She was reported to have suffered for four years from a " bad heart." See Faith Ward Boole, 1886, p. 174. 1365a,- Heart of a child showing a lacerated opening on the anterior wall of the right ventricle, immediately below the origin of the pulmonary artery. 1884 Two ribs wer e broken on the right side close to the spine, but the thoracic walls on the left side were intact. The child had been run over by a cart; death was instantaneous. 1367a,. A Heart showing a laceration of the septum ventriculorum, extending to the pericardial surface of the left ventricle, 1884 From a man who was dead when brought to the Hospital, having been knocked down by a cart. 1367b. A Heart in which there is a small irregular rupture of the left auricle. At the post-mortem examination neither the sternum nor any of the ribs were fractured. 1891 RUPTURE OF THE LEFT VENTRICLE. 1367c. A Heart, showing near the apex a rupture into the left ventricle. A green glass rod has been passed through the laceration, which measures rather over one inch in extent. 1893 From a young Hindu, aged eight, who met with a violent death by strangulation and drowning ; no fracture of the ribs had occurred. Microscopical examination showed that the muscular tissue of the heart had undergone no fatty degeneration. Presented by Surgeon-Major T. A. Dixon, A-.M.S. 1370a,- A Heart and Pericardium from a boy, aged thirteen years, who died on the twenty-fourth day after a stab in the chest with a penknife. On the inner side of the pericardium, on that portion which, during life, corresponded to tlie apex of the left ventricle, is a small depressed scar. The surrounding serous membrane is roughened by a deposit of a thick layer of lymph which extends over the surface of the heart. Attached to the pulmonary artery, by a string of fibrin five inches long, is a semi- organized blood-clot, rather larger than a walnut, which, at the post-mortem examination, was found lying against the left ventricle. 1882 The patient was admitted in a very collapsed state, from which he speedily rallied. He subsequently suffered from pericarditis and double pleurisy, for the latter of which tapping was twice performed. See Colston Ward Booh, vol. vii., p. 143. 1372a,. A Heart wounded by two bullets. One appears to have taken the course indicated by the glass arrow, entering the anterior sm-face of the left ventricle about midway between the apex and base, and passing out through the upper part of the . posterior wall. The other bullet has lacerated the left side of the surface of the ventricle without penetrating its wall. 1881 Presented by T. Wickham, Esq.