18 DISEASES OF BONES. 429a. Section of a large Enchondroma, four and a half inches long and three broad, removed from the anterior surface of the middle third of the femur of a lad. Externally the tumour is irregularly nodulated ; the cut surface is of a bluish white colour, and scattered throughout the growth are small masses of calcareous material. 1884 ENCHONDROMA (CHONDRO-SARGOMA). 431a. One half of the lower end of a right Femur, to which there is attached a large lobulated Enchondroma. The tumour grows mainly from the inner side of the shaft, about two inches above the condyle, and appears to be periosteal in origin. The medullary cavity is not altered or encroached upon by the growth. The section of the tumour and its outer nodulated surface both present the usual pearly appearance of cartilage. The main artery runs in or among the lobules of the tumour. The sciatic nerve was entirely superficial to it. 1893 From a man, aged 31. Twelve years previous to the operation he struck his knee, since which time the tumour had slowly grown. He made a good recovery, but returned to the hospital two years subsequently with an extensive recurrence in the pelvic lymphatic glands. See Male Suiy/ical Register, vol. ii. (1891), No. 36G. FATTY TUMOUR G-ROWING IN CONNECTION WITH BONE. 436a- A Large Irregular Fatty Tumour, weighing fifteen ounces, and measuring six inches by five. The growth is divided into several lobes, which are held together by a little areolar connective tissue, but it is only partially encapsuled. It is extremely firm, and consists of fat held together by trabecule of dense fibrous tissue. Microscopical examination confirms the naked-eye appearances, for the sections show collections of fat-cells separated by thick bundles of connective tissue. There is no muscular fibre in the growth, nor does it appear to be under- going any degenerative change. 1888 The tumour grew from the periosteum of the femur of a boy, aged nine years. It was attached by a firm broad base, which commenced just below the lesser trochanter, and extended downwards along the upper third of the left thigh on its outer aspect. Before removal the swelling was supposed to contain pus. It was probably congenital. See Male Surgical Register, vol. ii. (1886), No. 3749*, and Transactions of the Patliological Society, vol. xxxix., p. 270. 437a. A Sarcomatous Growth involving the Skull and Dura Mater. 1885 F., aet. 60. Sarcoma of breast of two years' duration. See Lucas Ward Boole, vol. ix., p. 48. 43713. A portion of the Calvaria of a child infiltrated with masses of a tough, reddish, Sarcomatous Growth. The masses are numerous, and give the exterior of the cranium a knobbed and pigmented appearance, whilst they project as large tumours into the cavity of the skull. 1886 From a boy, aged one and a half, who died in one of Dr. Gee's wards. The whole anterior part, and the greater portion of the base of the skull, was infiltrated with large masses of a tough, reddish, new growth, wliich \\ as found, on microscopical examination, to be a round- celled sarcoma. Many other bones were infiltrated. The ten upper ribs on the left side, the nine lower ribs on the right, the whole pelvis, and both femora were infiltrated, and presented numerous sarcomatous bosses. All the lumbar and cervical glands, the right lobe of the liver, and the right suprarenal bodies contained m.isses of new growth. The case began with pain in the right hip in October. In December a swelling was noticetl over the eye. This was rapidly succeeded by swellings on other parts of the skull. Both eyes were extremely depressed, and the corneaj sloughed. The growth increased very fast, and the child died on March 3rd. Cf. also Series xxviii., No. 2392b. See Transactions of the Pathological Society, vol. xxxvi. (1885), pp. 393-395.