SEEIES XXXII. DISEASES AID INJURIES TO lERTES. FIBROMA. 2555a. A Portion of a Median Nerve, in which there is a circumscribed oval tumonr composed of firm fibrous tissue. The tumour is situated in the substance of the nerve, and is covered by its investing sheath. 1889 From a subject brought for dissection. 2559a,. Section of a Tumour, composed of white, softish, fibro-cellular tissue, and containing a cyst about the size of an orange, which was filled with a gelatinous fluid and blood-clot. It occupied the popliteal space, and was connected with the nerve trunks. 1881 The tumour is composed of soft homogeneous or finely filamentous connective-tissue, containing abundant round or oval nuclei. In places the nuclei are very numerous, and separated by only a small amount of connective tissue. The tumour was removed from a man, aged 67 years, and, during the operation, the pero- neal and popliteal nerves were severed. It had been observed for two years. See Henry Ward Booh, vol. viii., p. 56. 2560a. A Portion of Fibro-Neuroma, removed from the peroneal nerve. The tumour was oval in outline : it is possessed of a firm capsule, and consists, micro- scopically, of fibrous tissue with numerous spindle cells. A few nerve-fibres were entangled in one part of the growth. 1889 From a man, aged 43 years, who for nine years had noticed a painful swelling on the outer side of his left leg. The tumour was situated two inches below the head of the fibula, in the line of the external popliteal nerve. It did not increase in size after the time when it was first noticed. See 3Iale Surgical Bcgister, vol. iii. (1889), No. .S64. SARCOMA OF THE PERONEAL NERVE. 2561a. A section through the upper half of the Left Fibula, and of a Sarcoma arising in the Peroneal Nerve. The tumour, though closely adherent to the bone, is separated from it by the periosteum, while the nerve, which is seen at the upper and back part of the specimen, is intimately blended with the tumonr. 1892 From a boy, aged 12. The operation was performed at the Eoyal Free Hospital, in Decem- ber, 1889 ; there was no glandular enlargement, and the boy made a good recovery except for a kind of talipes consequent on paralysis of the muscles supplied by the affected nerve. In April, 1891, he began to feel pain in his loins and legs ; he was re-admitted, and in May, 1891, laminectomy was performed for the removal of a secondary growth ; this was found to be growing from the body of the first lumbar vertebra, and could not be removed. The boy lived for a year, but gradually got weaker, and died in April, 1892. Presented by James Berry, Esq.