INJURIES OF BONES (fRACTUEES). 44 SEPARATION OF EPIPHYSIS. 758b. One Half of the Lower End of a Radius and Ulna wliich have been sawn through longitudinally, showing, as the result of au accident, the separation of the lower epiphysis of the radius from the shaft. 1892 From a boy, aged 16, who was brought dead to the Hospital, . See Surgical Post-Mortem Register, 1889, p. 86. MULTIPLE SPONTANEOUS FRACTURES. 759a. Portions of the Right Femur, of the Lower Half of the Left Femur, and of the Left Humerus. The bones have been sawn through longitudinally, and all of them show old fractures. In neither of the femora are the bones united except by fibrous tissue. In the left femur the fracture took place at about the junction of the lower with the middle third of the bone; the fragments are in bad apposition, the posterior surface of the upper fragment being in a line with the anterior surface of the lower ; they are, however, firmly held together. In the right femur the fracture took place in the middle third, and the fragments are in a similar, but rather worse, position than in the left leg, i.e., the upper is in front of, and overlaps, the lower fragment. In the left humerus the fracture took place at the junction of the upper and middle thirds, and the bone united in fairly good position ; the cavity of the medullary canal has been restored. 1891 The patient was a geutleman, who, at the time of his death, in June, 1890, was tliirty years of age. The following is his remarkable history :— In 1872, when eleven years of age, he fractured the upper part of his right humerus while throwing a cricket-ball : the bone united. In 1874 he slipped and fell, and fractured the left humerus : the bone united. In November, 1878, whilst playing football, he fell and again fractured his right humerus, this time just above the condyles : the bone united. In October, 1879, he severely sprained his right wrist, but broke no bones. In June,'18S0, he broke his right femur by a twist owing to his left leg slipping under him : the bone was broken as he stood : he was treated for two months on a long splint which went up to his waist, but not up to the axilla, and subsequently for two months by a gutta-perjha splint: the bone united partially but not iirmly, and there was much eversion. In January, 1881, he consulted a " bone-setter," who said " the knee was out," although the eversion was from the seat of fracture, and not from the knee : the limb was " manipulated" and the eversion corrected, but the patient was much worse afterwards. Shortly after this slight movement was noticed at the seat of fracture, where there was much callus : the mobility increased, and with it the shortening increased also. In June, 1883, he was treated by a surgeon: at that time there was extreme mobility between the fragments when the limb was at rest, but when the muscles were put into action the un-united fracture became fixed, and the patient stated tliat he could walk sixteen miles in a day at the rate of three and a half miles an hour : at this time there were three inches of shortening. In Febraary, 1884, while coming down-stairs, his right heel slipped : he swung himself round, and grasping the banisters with both hands, the left femur broke above the condyles as he was standing : he did not fall. This united satisfactorily. Bending at the seat of this fracture was first noticed two years afterwards, and movement began three and a half years after the fracture. In September, 1888, he noticed mobility at the seats of fracture of the right humerus, owing, he said, to excessive use. In April, 1889, enlargement in this region was lirst noticed, and gradually increased until November, 1889, when the right arm was removed at the shoulder-joint (see Specimen, No. 447a): he recovered well from the operation, and was up in three weeks. In February, 1890, an operation was peiformed for removal of some recurrent growth from the scar. He died in June, 1890, from secondary deposits in the internal organs. Microscopical examination of the material uniting the ends of the left femur showed it to be fibrous tissue only, and that it contained no sarcomatous elements. Sections are preserved in Series Iv., No. 92. Presented by John Langton, Esq,