DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE 100 1681 b. The Larynx, Trachea, and Right Lnng of a child, aged five years, who had inhaled a nut into the air passages four days before death. In the posterior and outer wall of the trachea, just above the bifurcation, is a ragged ulcerated hole communicating with an abscess cavity in the surrounding tissue and containing the nut, part of which lies in the trachea and part in the cavity ; a small portion of the tissue of the lung is collapsed, and in the very centre is a cavity, which in the recent state contained about two teaspoonfuls of pus. Small grey tubercles, some of them being quite calcareous, are scattered throughout the lung, which is in a condition of capillary bronchitis. There is a tracheotomy wound just below the cricoid cartilage. 1883 Tracheotomy was performed the day after the nut was supposed to have entered, but aiforded no relief to the symptoms. There were old pleuritic adhesions, and the liver and spleen were tubercular. See President Ward Booh, vol. ix., p. 71. 1682a. Portions of Diphtheritic False Membrane, which were coughed up through the tube, after tracheotomy had been performed for the relief of dyspnoea. 1890 The patient was a little boy, aged three years ami eight months, under treatment in Eadcliffe Ward. He made a good recovery. 1685a. Casts of the Bronchial Tubes from a case of plastic bronchitis. The casts occur in the form of solid cylinders, measuring more than an inch in length, and of the thickness of a crow-quill ; they consist of a fibrinous material. Some of the cylinders have a bifid extremity, which represents the dichotomy of the smaller bronchi. 1886 From a gentleman, aged 30, who had suifered for three months previously from an attack of tracheitis with some bronchitis. The bronchitis ran a somewhat chroaic course, and about the end of the third month the casts were coughed up. Before this happened the patient perspired a great deal, but had no marked rise of temperature. Presented by S. J. Gee, M. D. 1685b. A Membranous Cast which was coughed up from the lungs during the progress of a case of plastic bronchitis. 1891 Presented by P. G. Selby, Esq. 1687a. Portion of a Lung exhibiting an ulcerated opening extending through the anterior wall of the right bronchus, into one of the main branches of the pulmonary artery. The ulcer of the bronchus is larger than the aperture in the wall of the pulmonary artery. 1881 From a man who was brought to a hospital with profuse hiemoptysis, which was at first checked, but recurred and proved fatal ; no foreign body was found in the bronchus and the cause of the ulceration was not explained. Presented by Norman Moore, M.D. EMPHYSEMA. 1689a. A Portion of the Lower Lobe of a Lung, showing, along the free border, large dilated air-vessels, due to chronic emphysema. 1893 1696a. A Section through the Left Lung of a child, aged eleven months, who died from inanition. The base of the lung is collapsed, whilst the rest is solid with catarrhal pneumonia. 1889 See Medical Pi)st-3Iortem Register, vol. xiv., p. 208. 1704a. A portion of the Left Lung from a case of pneumothorax. The lung is collapsed against its root, and was bound down by the tliickened pleura. It presents several superficial depressions, which, from the rounded appearances presented by their edges, are apparently of long standing. Rods have been passed through these depressions into the finer bronchi, 1886