AMPUTATION AT THE HIP-JOINT 30 city for advice. I recognized a return of the bony growth in the os innominatum of the side from which the lower extremity had been removed, involving the acetabulum and neighboring parts. This continued slowly to increase, causing pain similar in character to that formerly experienced. Finally, symptoms indicating pressure upon the rectum and bladder gradually appeared, and increased in severity until death followed, at the end of five years from the date of the last operation, from intestinal obstruc- tion, resulting from pressure of the intra-pelvic growth upon the rectum. The parts were removed after death, and sent to the city for my inspection. The whole os innominatum was involved in an enormous outgrowth, similar in character to those already de- scribed, presenting no new appearances which could be recognized as malignant. I was informed by the physician who made the autopsy that he discovered no evidences of disease in any other organs of the body, the immediate cause of death being peritonitis.* * Immense Exostosis of Femur—Amputation at the Middle of the Thigh—Return of Disease, and subsequent Amputation at the Hip- Joint, followed by Recovery.—Dr. Van Burkn exhibited the upper half of the femur of a man, forty-three years of age, which he had recently j-emoved by amputation at the hip-joint, presenting a specimen of a peculiar form of exostosis. Dr. Van Buren recalled to the recollection of the members that nearly two years ago he had laid before the Society a very large bony tumor, weighing some ten or eleven pounds, involv- ing the condyles and lower portion of the femur, which he had removed by ampptation at the middle of the thigh. The patient recovered from this operation, and enjoyed excellent health for about a year, when pain was again experienced in the stump, which was ascertained to depend upon the return of the bony growth in the remaining portion of the femur. This increased rapidly, and at length caused such excruciating agony as to render the removal of the disease absolutely necessary, which, from its extent, could only be effected by amputation at the articu-