31 BY A MODIFIED PROCESS. lation. This was accordingly done on the’21st of March, and the patient was thus far doing well. The specimen at present before the Society was therefore the remain- ing (upper) half of the diseased femur, the lower half of which had been formerly exhibited. It was evidently a disease of the bone of the same nature, viz., of the osteo-cartilaginous variety of exostosis, as described by Nelaton, (Elemens de Path. Chirurg., Paris, 1847, t. ii. p. 3,) Caesar Hawkins, (Lect. on Tumors of Bones, Lond. Med. Gaz., new series, vol. i. p. 475,) and Cruveilhier. The irregular outliues of the diseased mass resembled the spicular form of exostosis described by Astley Cooper, in his paper on exostosis, while its surface was covered, beneath the peri- osteum, by a layer of cartilage, varying from one to five or six lines in thickness, verifying accurately the description of Nelaton. The sub- stance of the tumor is not at all dense, resembling more, within, the cancellated structure of healthy bone. The return of the disease might lead to the suspicion of its malignant character, but its very slow growth, (nineteen years,) its painlessness, except from tension of the nervous trunks, and its anatomical character- istics, would seem to confirm its chai’acter as a simple exostosis of the variety described. The specimen first obtained has been macerated since its first exhibition to the Society, and its present appearance entirely confirms this opinion. There is a case of bony tumor involving the lower part of the femur, resembling very closely the case now under consideration, reported by Boyer, (Traitd des Mai. Chirurg., t. iii. p. 598, Paris ed., 1831,) in which the disease is denominated Osteosarcoma. The patient survived eigh- teen years after its removal by amputation. The term osteo-sarcoma has been applied indiscriminately to the rarer varieties of exostosis, as well as to cysts, hydatids, fibrous, cartilaginous, and cancerous tumors developed in bone, and has consequently lost any pathological significa- tion that it ever possessed; and it is probable that, as our knowledge of minute structure is increased by greater familiarity with the micro- scope, many other terms at present employed in surgical pathology will also fall into disuse from the vagueness of their signification. Cruveilhier, in the 34th livraison of his magnificent illustrations of morbid anatomy, pictures and describes specimens of still another variety of osteo-cartilaginous exostosis, and expresses the opinion that Boyer’s case was merely another phase of the same disease. (Plates were exhibited to the Society from the works of Cruveilhier and Boyer, illustrating the different varieties of exostosis.)—(Report of Proceedings of New York Pathological Society. Neio York Journal of Medicine, vol. v., 1850.)