CASES OF INGUINAL ANEURISM. 65 result.* We have thus in this instance the singular coincidence of true aneurism, from disease of the ar- terial coats, with a communication existing between the artery and vein. A question now arises of more importance: what was the cause of the gangrene of the limb which followed the ligature of the artery? The patient was young, moderately vigorous, of healthy constitution; and the disease had existed for two years and a half. The slight mitral contrac- tion, and hypertrophy of the left ventricle, can hardly be taken into account. Under these circumstances, the danger of gangrene after ligature of the main arterial trunk of a limb, for simple aneurism of moderate size, is not great.f I am forced to the con- clusion that, in the present case, the unnatural com- munication existing between the vein and artery was the main cause of its unfortunate issue; and this conclusion I shall attempt to justify. In reviewing the surgical history of arterio-venous aneurism,J with the view of determining the results * That the aneurismal tumors involved the coats of the arteries alone there is no doubt; and in the larger tumor the internal lining of the artery is distinctly continuous with that of the sac. The fact is further confirmed by the bony deposit existiug in the walls of both tumors ; bony transformation being a rare consequence of inflammation except in the arterial tissue. f Out of 155 cases of ligature of the external iliac, of which I have a record, gangrene of the limb has followed the operation for simple aneu- rism in sixteen cases. Dr. Norris (table showing the mortality follow- ing ligature of iliac arteries, Am. Journ. Med. Sci., January, 1847) gives nine instances of gangrene occurring under similar circumstances, out of 118 cases. % For the sake of brevity, I employ the term arterio-venous aneurism as including the different varieties of disease involving an abnormal communication between an artery and vein, as, in the present view of the subject, this circumstance is alone of importance.