DISEASES OF THE RECTUM. 116 or torn in the stretching process; but no harm or delay in the cure has resulted from this. My col- league. Dr. W. R. Donaghe, tells me that, after doing the operation, he once felt distinctly, through a lacera- tion in the mucous membrane of the rectum, a gap in the substance of the sphincter. The case did well, and the cure was perfect.* * The following is a note of Dr. Donaghe’s case, which he has kindly furnished me:— Case.—Timothy McMahon, aged forty-five, a stout, well-built laborer, came to the Demilt Dispensary, August 1, 1862, complaining of “pain in the lower end of his bowel kfter a passage.” He stated that his bowels had been generally regular, and that during the last four years he had been troubled with bleeding once or twice a year, lasting four or five days. His present complaint began six months before his visit to the dispensary. He said that he had a passage every morning, causing some sense of soreness as it came out, and that when it was over, with- out any interval, there began “a great pain,” which he likened to that felt by a woman in labor; that it lasted about four hours ; that after its cessation he felt perfectly well until the next day; but when the pain was upon him he could do nothing, so great was his suffering, and con- sequently he had been obliged to give up his daily labor. On examina- tion with a rectal speculum I found several small internal piles; and in front of the coccyx, on the upper part of the mucous membrane lining the external sphincter, there was a small round ulcer, a little larger than half a pea, with a reddish and ungranulating surface and slightly thickened edges. I touched it thoroughly with nitrate of silver, but without relief. On August 23d I gave him ether, and, introducing the index and middle fingers of both hands into the rectum, I pressed slowly but firmly toward the tuberosities of the ischia. During this movement I felt a distinct sensation of something giving way, which I supposed to be the sphincter muscle. After this occurrence there was no further resistance, but the margin of the anus became very lax. I examined with my finger toward the coccyx, and recognized a distinct laceration of its mucous membrane, the rough edges of which could be easily felt; the joint of my finger imbedded itself in the submucous cellular tissue. He complained of severe pain when the effects of the ether passed off, and I gave him a grain of opium. On the third and fourth days he had passages, and said that the “ straining was not felt.” On the eighth day I saw him again. He had had a passage every day without subsequent suffering. I ex-