THE 9k) Penny EGETARIAN ILLUSTRATED. T. L. NICHOLS, M.D. Revised by Dr. T. R. ALL: Xon&on: 59, EASTCHEAP, E.G.TV ^^CHOlii-BKlLL Co., Ltd., 59, Eastclieap, London, E.C. Guaranteed free from all mineral colouring matter. DR. NICHOLS' SOAP (MADE FROM THE PUREST OLIVE OIL). FOR THE Toilet, Bath, Nursery, Sick Room, 6d. & M. Per Tablet. FOR THE Toilet, Bath, Nursery, Sick Room, 6d. & 4d. Per Tablet. SANITARY TOILET I NURSERY BATH TEETH HAIR It contains Deoclorising, Antiseptic, and Disinfecting elements, which mate it not only thd most purifving of ^o'^P?' Mud for its curative virtues. It neutralizes and destroys f^erj kiu of ira,,urity and every taint of 'lisease-iyngoid, parausitic, w^^^^^ malcular-in the skin, hair, or teeth. It has ^^^iX "ruptions of ten years' standing. It Perfectly destroys the morbific matter of measles, scarlatina, and all ooatagious diseases, cures chaps, chilblains, and excoriations^ — "iTwill not injure the most delicate ';'^«P)e'''°°- ;„^Xr'^soanes8 to ladies for the face without fear, and gives a singular soiiup the hand». All mothers who have used it agree tUat it is a most deUgUtful^^ beautiful soap for babies and young children. It ajaort.»» Hons ana rash. _ _ jn "''-' ^Freely used o^r~tho whole Bu7f.wroTthe bod'^T^^^s » softness, a healthy kIow, a clear puritv and pearly l"^';^'-'."/.^ skill, and a delightful sense of absolute cleaulinaM, and stciu-R, perfect health, the flret element of beauty. ^..■ 'used as^a'Dentifrice, it thorouK'hly cle^es ^^^^^^^^^^^r^^tncTli restores healtli to diseased gums, and remo\ts ovi.i.> I putridity from the breath. I . — rSe" regular uso^ th^soap' to the soalp^will "'o£"ot ^he 1 head from scurf, and. by removing disease from the roots oi hair, enable it to grow Hlronir and giossy. SHAVING GARGLE ,'ri.i LDS, Ktc. From the delicious softness imi.arted to the skin, it makes a perfect shaving soap. ^ — It is, wh''n .lis«nlvc<l lliTvitorTan oxcoliont gargle fOr rtlaxod or ulffrateil t/>M!*UB, ^ — Srrnn..7l';i7iin.7n.l7H>,.l n.ii.lo Into n linn im-tr with water, it InBlantly ,vlliii» the umiiit anil pain of burnn. scaldx, Btlngs, etc. SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND GROCERS.DR. NICHOLS' THE NICHOLS-BRILL CO., LTD., 59, EASTCHEAP, LONDON, E.G. BAKING POWDER. Composed of Chemical Elements of Perfect Purity. Combined in Accurate Proportions. Free from any Deleterious Ingredient. DR NICHOLS' BAKING POWDER is so composed as to euofue the greatest quantities of pure Carbonic Acid Gas, which forms minute vesicles throughout the mass of dough or batter, rendering it LIGHT, DIGESTIBLE, WHOLESOME. \ — DR. NICHOLS' Name is a Guarantee of its Puritv Sold in Id. Packets, and 6d., Is., and 23. Canisters. SOLD BY GROCERS, ETC.PENNY VEGETARIAN COOKERY THE SCIENCE AND THE ART OF SELECTING AND PREPARING A PURE, HEALTHFUL, AND SUFFICIENT DIET. \ By T. L. NICHOLS, M.D., I.ate Editor of''Tke Herald of Health r Author of " Ho^ to Li.e on Sixpence a Day,' "mwian Physiology the Basis of Sanitary and Social Science," etc. Revised by Dr. T. R. ALLINSON, L.R.C P Medical Editor of' Weekly Times and Echo; " Author of - Medical Essays ■" " A Svste^ of Hygienic Medicine ; " " Rheumatism, Consumption, Diet, and Digestion," etc. •THere is no riches above a i^^^^s^.^^f.^J!" i°f,.^''- the joy of the heart."- Xon&on: THE NICHOLS-BRILL CO., Ltd., 59. EASTCHEAP, E.C. 1891." May good digestion wait on appetite, and health on both.'' ShakespeaK. DR. NICHOLS' FOOD OF HEALTH. Nutritious and Delicious f CHILDREN, Per lb. ^d. Packet O ADULTS. Invaluable for INDIGESTION, CONSTIPATION. &c. fOli EVERY DAY USE, THE HEALTHY. THE PORRIDGE. BLANCMANGE. PUDDI/4GS, &c. From DR. T. R. ALLINSON, L.R.C.P. (Author of "Hygienic Medicine "I like DR. NICHOLS' 'FOOD OF HEALTH' veiy much and (hul it of gi-oat dioi-oiic; value in many diseases. As a •teakfast dish, I prefer it to oatmeal. For the regulation of the bowclH, It cannot be surpassed." THE NICHOLS-BRILL CO., LTD.. 5938TCHEAP. LONDON, E.G.DR. NICHOLS' BRILL'S SEA SALT. PENNY VEGETARIAN COOKERY. SOME REASONS WHY. HY" I write this Penny Vegetarian Cookery when there are already several good ones to be had, if one could find them, is that I think 1 may be able to make a better one by cutting what I like best from all of them, and adding a httle of my own, thus developing cookery books by "natural selection and the survival of the fittest." The reason why I write a Vegetancm Cookery is that, having heard a course of lectures on " Diet in its relations to Health," by Sylvester Graham, in 1834, when n. , r 11 ^ at theageof 19,1 was attending my first course of medical lectures at Dartmouth College N H USA T adopted the vegetarian diet with the daily bath, and other hv-iemV habits, to the great improvement of my health, and with the result that from that day to this I have never had one hour's seiions illnes, nor ever been hindered one day from my ordinary avocations As ^ martter of taste the disuse of flesh meat has been no sacrifice and T have found a diet of bread, fruit, and vegetables, with some ^se foJ convenience of milk and eggs, sufficient, satisfying, healthful and delicious^ This a^o has been the experience of iillLsf n fact of four-fifths of the human race in all ages. ' The reason why people should adopt a vegetarian diet is that it the best in every possible way. This is now admitted by he hil e fc medical and scientific authorities. Mr. Howard Williams Ls puSec a catena of writers who favour a pure diet, from Plesiod ^nlWomTu> our own times, with extracts, filling 300 octavo pages_a splendrbodv of testimony, which every doubter should read.* ^P'^^iaia body * Ec.ad also Smith'g " Fruits anrl Va-n-nnnna • " w r-,., • i i VegetariaDism ;" Dr. Allinson's works Jn^Th'p " ^''t,?" " ^^'^^^^tuvlan of London and Manchester pubhcations of Vegetarian Societies6 Dr. Nichols' Food of Health. BRILL'S SEA SALT. Vegetarianism is best for health, being pure and purifying. Fruits purify the blood. Flesh is always liable to be diseased, and at its best has a diseasing tendency. Cattle and jjigs fattened for slaughter are Hable to tubercle, scrofula, tape- worm, and oth- er para- sites,and many of the dis- eases of cattle, sheep, pigs, etc., are transmissible. A vegetable diet alleviates and often cures scrofulous, cancerous, and consumptive ten- dencies, as may be seen by a multitude of authorities in my book, " The Diet Cure." And this liability of man to acquire the dis- eases of animals on which he feeds becomes a serious matter when the unnatui-al breeding and feeding of animals destined to be killed and eaten produce wide-spread epidemics. It is surely much safer to live on such pure and healthy foods as fruit, grain, pulse, and vegetables, than to run the risk of eat- ing the bocUes of dis- animals,Dr. Nichols' Soap. BRILL'S SEA SALT. when a vegetarian diet is found to be not only the most healthy, but abundantly su&cient for all the wants of man From the earliest times the labour of the world has been done by people living on the simplest vegetable food-on rice, maize, rye wheat barley, and oats; on bananas, supposed to be the food of primiti;e mTn dates, hgs, grapes, oranges, apples, pears, peaches, acorns, walnuts chest- nuts, cocoanuts, etc etc. Oui- ancestors lived ^n acorns, bar ey and berries and fru ts Scotland and Ireland have rais'ed milLs of trong men and beau l ul women on oatmeal and potatoes. Until re- cen% the agricultural labourers of England seldom tasted flesh, beyond a bit of bacon on Sunday. The great populations of India and China are fed almost entn-ety upon a vegetable cUet. So are the haid worW peasantry all oyer Europe, from Spain and Portugal to Rus^a and Tm^key, where the strongest and hardiest men in the wor d may be seen living on brown bread and figs, grapes and water-melons. ^ coZoZ7Sl^&"'"'"^fV' ^^^'^^-^y ^ore economical than one composed of fish, flesh, and fowl. A pound of maize costs three-farthin-s a pound of wheat a penny, and either contains more nutriment haS three pounds of beef, which, as .vill be seen in our diagrams, is neaX three-foiurths water. An acre of ground, planted with banana-trees, will feed twenty-five (Humboldt says thirty) men. An acre of good English land may produce sixty bushels of wheat, while it requires from six to ten acres to produce an equivalent quantity of beef or mutton. The oat- meal required to fatten a pig is worth more than six times as much as the pork It makes for food, while it is better in every way before being converted into pig. But for the economies of a vegetarian diet read How TO Live on Sixpence a Day," or, what is better, try the ex- periment. Sixpence a day is a very liberal allowance. The food of the pat mass of the English people for centuries has not averaged as much. It is quite possible for any healthy man or woman to live on 6d. or _2d. a day A penny will often buy a pound of wheat, two pounds of maize or Indian corn two pounds of potatoes, a pound of Spanish onions, half a pound of dates, a quarter of a pound of raisins, etc Anv average person can live perfectly well on twenty-four ounces of food a day, not including the water.* Here it is then : Wheat, maize oat- meal rice, are almost perfect foods, containing the matter required to build up and restore every part of the body. Fruits, and so-called TaSf'V^f-r'"^''?'?' gi-e --^ pleasant and healthS var ety. While it is easy to live on an average cost of 2d. a day no one's diet need cost over 6d. ^' ° The Peninsular and Oriental Steamship Company employs East Indian coolies o do the hardest work on their steamers, because they "Z 1 '^'T'^ *h^\Englishmen, because they are tJonS clpan? on5 7^. a ly.?'^^"^ the If a vegetarian diet be cheaper, more healthful, better in every way why not adopt it ? Why not, at least, give it a fair trial ? ^ ^' renshlt'T^^R/iiixSLN'^'^""^ '^^^ -^^--^ut I did not of aS." ^ °f E^l^^i" ^^oM, author of " The Ligbt8 Dr. Nichols' Food of Health. BRILL'S SEA SALT. FOOD DIAGRAMS. HESE show at a glance the proportions of Flesh and Tissue forming, or nitrogenous elements, albumen, fi brine, gluten, etc.; Heat and Force producing, or carbonaceous elements, oil, sugar, starch, etc. ; Bone and Teeth forming, as lime, phosphates, etc.; and Water, in several common foods, according to the best chemical authorities (see opposite). From these diagrams the reader can gather at a glance the relative value of several types of food, by observing the proportions of the matter which builds up the various organs of the body, and repairs their daily waste, that which keeps up animal heat, and gives force and activity, and the proportion of water, which, though a necessary element, can be got for considerably less than what is often paid for it in beef and mutton. Diagram No. 1 shows the proportions of bone, brain, muscle, and other tissue-forming, and heat or force-forming matter in wheat, the king of grains. Rye, barley, and maize vary a Httle from wheat, the latter, especially, containing more oil. In wheat the proportions are almost precisely what the human system requires, and it is therefore called the staff of life. Wholemeal, brown, or " Graham " bread, as it IS called in America, which was once made by all English bakers, is the best that can be made—easy of digestion, a preventive of, and cure tor, constipation, and affording perfect nourishment to every organ of the body. No. 2. The common white bread of the baker has lost a large portion ot its tissue-forming elements in the bran, shorts, grits, etc., thrown out by the miller, so that it consists largely of starch, and causes starvation and constipation. No- 3 is Scotia's favourite food, with a good supply of brain and mascle, and great heat and force. No 4, the staple food of more than half the human race, i-equires to eaten with dahl, peas, beans, lentils, milk, or eggs, to supply a larger «f ^ligestlo ^^^'^^"^■fo'^^ing elements. It is a pure food, and very easy No. 5. The potato, though low in tissue-making material (nitrogen), contain.s considerable carbon, in the form of starch, and some excellent l.r*^''n ®^«°ients. Much of tlie water is thrown off in cooking, especially in baking. Ncs. 6 and 7. Peas and beans—haricot and other dry benns areDr. Nichols' Soap. BRILL'S SEA SALT. 9lO Dr. Nichols' Food of Health. BRILL'S SEA SALT. proportion of these very " hearty" foods, and so get too much nitro- genous material. No. 8 gives, with approximate accuracy, the proportions of beef and mutton, which, as sold by the butcher, if free from bone, and of ordinary fatness, contains about 70 per cent, of water—a very dear food, liable to be diseased, and giving, in many cases, a tendency to in- flammatory and congestive diseases. The chemical elements of food are the same as those which compose the body, the blood, and the milk—carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, with certain mineral elements, as calcium and sodium, and also phos- phorus and sulphur. Milk and eggs are chemically^jej/eci foods for calves and chicks—that is, they contain all the elements of animal bodies in the needed pro- portions ; grains, pulse, and fruits are similarly constituted and best for adults. Wheat and grapes, for example, are perfect foods. The exact proportions of the several elements in varioits articles of food, including those illustrated in the above diagrams, are given in the following table :— Name of Footl. Wheat meal ... Oatmeal Barleymeal ... Eice ... Split Peas Haricot Beans Lentils Potatoes Turnips Cabbage Apples Bananas Nuts ... Milk ... Cheese White Fish Lean Meat Solids. 80 85 85 87 92 87 89 26 9 9 15 26 56 14 64 26 22 28 Water. Carbon. 15 15 15 13 8 13 11 74 91 91 85 74 44 80 36 74 78 72 70 70' 75 82-5 66 60 62 22 7-5= 6-6 14= 20 42-5' 9^ 2.53 10-.5' 3» 43 Nitrogen. 12 12 8 4 24 24 25 2-5 1 2 O'o 5 12 4 34 14 18 20 Mineral. 3 3 2 0-5 2 3 2 J-5 0-5 0-5 0- 5 1 1- 5 1 5= 1'5 1 4« 1. Coi,lams4percent. of fat. 0. The miueml m„»'"'^ wl-'ed salt. niMtor 18 soluble salts of potash and soda, but not the bODO-forming salts. ^vithout Z f?,;n T ' ""^^ The table will explain itself . nuther description of mineDr. Nichols' Soap. BRILL'S SEA SALT. ~ A Young Vegetarian. USE OF FOOD. secondly to supply the matter consumed in making heat, which is constantly passing off in the breath, in perspiration, and in other evacuations, and for force, which is used up by all bodily actions.Dr. Nichols' Food of Health. 12 SKILL'S SEA SALT. OF FRUIT. As fruit, after milk, which is the first food of all animals of the class Mammalia, was the original, and is the most natural food of man, let us begin with fruit. All good ripe fruits are best eaten in their natural state. Fresh ripe grapes, strawberries, peaches, apricots, and mellow pears and apples cannot be improved by cookery. Unripe goosebein-ies and apples and the coarser kinds of pears may be stewed or baked, as in tarts, adding the sugar they have not yet made. As sugar preserves fruit, it also is apt to preserve it in the stomach, making it difficult of digestion—therefore put in no more than is needful. Fruit should form a portion of every meal—not at the end of a meat dinner, but rather at the beginning of every meal, especially at breakfast. Figs and raisins are as heai'ty as bread—and, like brown bread, wheaten groats, and " Food of Health," are remedies for constipation far better than all drugs. The value of fruits as food is shown in the table on page 7, but few people realize the fact that man is really a fruit-eating animal, as shown by his hands, his teeth, and his natiu-al tastes and appetites. A nation in Africa Hyes entirely on dates three months of every year. A man " sitting under his own vine and fig-tree" can live perfectly well upon their products. Figs contain the same proportion of nutriment as bread, and far more than any kind of flesh meat. We know men who have lived a long time, doing hard work, entii*ely on fruit. A friend of ours made a pedestrian tour of six weeks, walking over a large part of England, eatmg nothing but apples. On the last day he walked thirty miles, ^'^s none the worse, but rather the better, for his experiment.* Many persons supposed to be affected with incurable diseases have got well on a diet of fruit, or, as in the grape cure, on bread and fruit. BREAD AND PORRIDGE. Bread is the " Staff" of Life," because good bread contains all that is necessary for the nourishment of man. By good bread I mean that which contains all the elements of nutrition in the proportions required, which is pleasant to the taste, easy of digestion, and which favours the P™P«»' -jction of all the vital organs. I he best bread—one which affords perfect nourishment, and not only prevents but cures dyspepsia, constipation, and the many ailments they proauce--is made of the whole mml of wheat, from which nothing is separated, of which no element is thrown away. The most primitive read made of wheat crushed in a mortar or gi-ound between two stones, mixea up with water and baked on a broad leaf before the fire or in invnnf- "^''^ sweetest and healtliiest bread ever made. All our cTl-,- '■^fi"5'™«'^ts have only brought us to the starchy, taste- -r^j^oC^:':^^'tltT^^ bakei™" ^i^l^^inr,::^^^!^?;;?-^^ ll^^f^^^^on fruitDr. Nichols' Soap. 13 BRILL'S SEA SALT\ Decorticated bread, made of wheat with the outer skin rubbed ofF, may be best for a few persons with irritable bowels, but for most, and for all in the least liable to constipation, the whole meal is best. The usual mode of making bread light is by fermentation, a process of decay. By it a portion of the starch is first converted into suo-ar, then into alcohol and carbonic acid, the globules of which make bread light, and if the fermentation is continued, into acid, which makes it sour. Unleavened bread is sweeter and more nutritious than leavened. The sooner fermentation is checked by heat, the better the bread; but bakers want to make big loaves, and use alum to keep them from becoming sour. _ Good, wholesome bread is made of rye, barley, and maize, or their intermixtures. Yankees revel in Boston Brown Bread, made of rye and Indian corn maize. Barley bread used to be common in Cumberland • oat cakes are still eaten in Scotland and Lancashire. ' Clean, nice bread is the aerated, mixed with water into which carbonic acid has been absorbed under pressure. Mix a basin of meal or flour qmckly with a bottle of soda water, and you have aerated bread. Baking powder, thoroughly mixed with the meal, when the mass is wetted, generates carbonic acid. If it be made of pure bicarbonate of soda and tartaric acid in exactly neutralising proportions, it will make light and tasty bread. ' " Dr. Nichols' Bread-raiser " is simply a carefully-made baking powde^ combining the best materials in accurate proportions. Light thin cakes, called " gems," are made of the whole meal of wheat by beating air into a thin batter of meal, as one beats e<^gp The batter is then dropped upon hot irons and quickly baked. These cakes are crisp and dehcious. Scotch griddle or girdle cakes, made of oatmeal spread thin and baked over the fire, are similar. American "Johnny cake" and "hoe cake" is made of Indian corn-maize meal mixed with water, and spread about an inch thick on a shallow tin or the broad negro hoe, and baked by being set before the fire, and eaten hot. The best bread is made of good wheat freshly ground and quickly baked. Perhaps the very best is that made of fresh meal, not too fine simply mixed with water, and baked in the most primitive way as it was before the tent of Abraham. To this day, the common bread of the East is made of the whole meal of wheat, ground by the women in a hand-mill every morning, mixed with water and baked at the fire This IS the principal food of some of the hardiest and strongest men in the world. Such bread, with a handful of dates or figs, or a bunch of grapes, makes a pure, delicious, and most healthful diet. Porridge is a kind of bread boiled instead of baked Oatmeal porridge IS the favounte breakfast of Scotland, and may be found over most of the north of England and Ireland. In America a similar dish called "mush, is made of Indian corn meal or hominy, or coarsely ground wheat meal. The most perfect mush or porridge in the world especially for dyspeptics, or persons disposed to constipation is that made of the "Eood of Health," which differs from all other cerjfoods by its peculiar mode of preparation. "Erumenty," a favourite food of our ancestors, which had the place14 Dr. Nichols' Food of Health. BRILL'S SEA SALT. of honour at Lord Mayors' feasts, was wheat boiled whole, and eaten with iTiilk and honey. It takes time to boil soft, but when well done is delicious and most healthy. Wheat set in a jar in the oven to swell and soften is good eating, with a little sugar and cream, and stewed raisins, stewed figs, baked or stewed apples, etc. There is one rule in cooking all ground cereals—oatmeal, wheat- meal, maizemeal, etc. The meal must be gradually stirred into boiling water, which must be kept all the time boiling, so that each grain may encounter at once a heat of 212°. This heat instantly bursts the .starch globules. When this is not done the porridge tastes raw and pasty. If the oatmeal or other meal is very coarse it does not so much matter. Coarse oatmeal may even be soaked all night, and then put into the oven to cook. How long ? The " Food of Health " sprinkled from the left hand and stirred into boiling water—kept boiling—with the right is perfectly cooked in ten minutes. Oatmeal is better if cooked twenty minutes, maizemeal and hominy require still longer cooking. Double saucepans are convenient in cooking many delicate dishes—those made with milk and eggs for example—because they are thereby kept from burning. But they are not good for porridge, because the water in the inner com- partment never boils—never has a heat of 212°. Here is a secret, however, worth more than a psnny. Raise the boil- ing point of the water in the outer compartment, and you will make that in the inner one boil. How to do it: increase its specific gravity ; add common salt, a spoonful at a time to the outer water until the inner pan boils. Then add a little more to secure brisk boiling; and keep the onter salted Avater for future iise, adding a little now and then to supply the waste by evaporation. So much for soft bread known as poriidge, and the more liquid kinds called gruels. Some of my patients find soft food harder to digest than dry. They can eat toasted brown bread, or the Food of Health Biscuits, and digest them perfectly without heartburn, sour stomach, or eructations, but find porridge more difficult. Why? For two reasons. They eat por- ridge faster, because they are not obliged to chew it, so that it has no beginning of digestion by being mixed with saliva in the mouth. Such patients should live on food that requires chewing, or eat porridge as they would bread. A good plan is to take a bit of bread Avith every spoonful of porridge, and so secure the first conditions of digestion—the use of the teeth and perfect insalivation. JNow Dr. Nichols' Food of Health Biscuits can be purchased every Where, giving to dyspeptics, consumptives, and all invalids the best food in Its purest form. Prom Mr. W. T. RAXWORTHY, 4S, Theobald Road, West Croydon :- l'<>mb]c tc.stirnonv\?H'' r'^^"™'''' tl.at T now (after thirteen years'trial) bear my yir. ■ Thf. in 1^1 •' f?'"'^'** lasliiiR boon conferred upon the Britush pubhe, used with fl T,','-^ Nichols' 'Food of Ileallh.' which wc have tbroTiKli cx(.oR«;v„ ^"V ''"'^ '■'^'"•s of adult infirmity and loss of vitality ' Pi'^k-me-^n .^tW T?, T°"J- "'^''^ O-y wife and I) have foun.l no l>cttcr ttiry «oap'Vnnc/n ;n 'r Wc have also used your ' t-ani- known-wo feel thaU^fTt were i^wZin^ ""K'^^ to be universally ^ ^ were u would be universally used.''BRILL'S SEA SALT. DR. NICHOLS' FOOD OF HEALTH. Food of Health is a pure cereal product, made from the finest nnd best fe,rain ana prepared in a particular way. As milk is the standard food tor babies, so is Food of Health for adults. When a child is weaned, it cannot have a better food than Food of Health mixed with milk. As it at hll^rw r Health porridge should always be its chief article Fnnrl f ir ^^'^ ^^'^ ^^"'^ becomes a man, he should continue his Lir^^L Tl, P^"'i'lge at breakfast, and if he lunches in the City on Iw . u Biscuits and fruit at that meal. When old age steals a day '^'^^ ""-^^ "»eal th.on the Food of Health ijorridgo once is ili'^tl ?f if so valuable an article of everyday diet because it artioU.u ^ perfect food, on wlncli .alone a person can live. When other —" ^'^^ ^'"'■'^ty is got, and the Food of Health is aA FEW WAYS OF PREPARING DR. NICHOLS' FOOD OF HEALTH. (Eegistered Teade Mark.) 8d. Per lb. Packet. MODES OF PREPARATION. BREAKFAST OR SUPPER DISH. Into half a pint of Boiling water, carefully licpt hoiling, sift from the left hand, stirring with the right, 2 oz. or two large table-spoonfuls of the Food OF Health ; boil gently about ten minutes, always stirring. When done, pour into a soup plate, and let it stand for a few minutes; eat with cold or hot milk and powdered sugar, or mth cream, stewed fruit, golden syrup, etc. COST-ONE PENNY. The very best and most delicious mode of preparing the Food is to proceed as above, using Boiling Milk instead of Water, and taking special care that it does not burn. Those who SQflEer from Constipation had better have if made with Water only. ANOTHER WAY, Proportions, 2 oz. or two large table- spoonfuls of the Food of Health to half a pint of water (or milk and water). Have boiling two-thirds of this quan- tity ; with the remaining third mix into a batter the 2 oz. of Food of Health. Pour into the boiling water, and stir from five to ten minutes. Tlie directions must le imjMeitly followed. MOULDED. Poured into wet Moulds it may be eaten cold with sweet or sour sauce or syrup ; cut in slices it may be fried in a little oil or butter, and eaten with syrup ; mixed with a beaten egg and milk, it may be fried in fritters. Good in every way, the simjAer form-l are lest for delicate stomachs and weak digestions. BLANC MANGE. Beat two table-spoonfuls with an egg- and stir into a pint of boiling milk, sweeten and flavour to taste ; simmei- five minutes, stirring well, and pour mto a wet mould. Eat cold, with sugar, or cream, or fruit syrup. PUDDINGS. _ With milk and eggs, and sweetened. It makes a delicious and healthy pud- ding, which may be improved lay the addition of well-soaked raisins, chopped and soaked figs, apples pared whole or in shces, or any pulpy fruit. INFANTS' GRUEL. Beat up a dessert-spoonful with juat enough milk to moisten it, and stir it into half a pint of slightly sweetened boiling milk and water, equal parts- gently boil five minutes ; can be sti'ained ]f desired. This food will relieve most cases of constijmtiun in infants without other ajierients. POPOVERS. Beat the Food of Healtli with milb and eggs, with a little salt and sugar into a light batter ; pour iulo buttered' cups or small deep tins, and bake in a quick oven. WAFERS. The Food of Health may be mixed with water or milk, with a little salt and sugar, if so liked, rolled out thin and baked into delicious wafers. BREAD AND BISCUITS. Mixed u]i with baking ]jowder and milk, or a little oil or butter, it makes delightful bread, cakes, or biscuits. Sold by Grocers and Chemists Everywhere. THE NICHOLS-BRILLC07LTM9rEASTCHEAP, LONDON, E.G.AH Purchasers of this Liifle Book should Read this Pa^e. From the late Dr. ANNA KINGSFORD:— " When your child is able to masticate you can give such foods as porridge. Nichols' ' Food of Health' is the best I know of for the purpose." From Dr. E. HAUGHTON, M.R.C.S., Upper Norwood:— " I have frequently prescribed the ' Food of Health' introduced by Dr. Nichols. I am well satisfied with it as a highly nutritious and easily digestible Food." From the Rey. G. Y. CHICHESTER, Wotton Rectory, Dorking:— " The Farina called Nichols'' Food of Health-' has proved an important article of diet so far, not only for its sustaining qualities, but for other valuable properties in a medicinal point of view." From the ReY. C. W. BALDWIN, Tydd St. Mary Rectory, Wisbech:— " We have tried your ' Food of Health' in many cases of delicate children and sick people, and find it most efficacious." From the Rev. WALTER GILL, Congregational Minister, Parkstone, near Poole: — '• I have pleasure in saying that the claims put forward in reference to the ' Food of Health' have been fully justified in the experience of very many in this neighbourhood, in some cases most markedly so." From Mrs. J. WRIGHT, 2, Avon Place, Barker Square, Birmingham:— _ '• I have a baby not twelve months old that has been suffering with inflamma- tion of the bowels. We had the advice of two doctors, but what they prescribed did not seem to help him, in fact they both gave him up. We were recommended to try Dr. Nichols' ' Food of Health'; we did so, and I am pleased to tell you it was the cause of his ultimate recovery, and the child is now getting on wonderfully well. I have recommended it to others, and I think the least I can say is, that if mothers only knew the good qualities it contains, they would not hesitate to use it." From Mr. J, WILLSHER, Schoolmaster, 12th Lancers, ShornclifFe :— • My wife desires me to forward to you her opinion of the ' Food of Health.' We have reared three boys, and lost two, and two girls—babies—through nothing else than insufficient and improper food. Our last and eighth baby was weaned at SIX weeks. I obtained some of your ' Food of Health,' and the baby has thriven wonderfully ; in fact, we have had daily inquiries from people, ' What do you feed the baby on ?' Now, we have tried every kind of food in the market, and can conscientiously say that not one can even compare with ours. Our baby is simply a picture, not of fat, but of health—solid flesh; moreover she has not required a dose of medicine since she began using it. She is so fond of it, and so are the other children ; so am I." ^'""wi'^'"' ®: *• WHITEHORNE, 38, Green St., St. Heller's, Jersey:- • writing permit me to say that I am receiving day by day most raarkea improvement from the use of your ' Food of Health.' Constipation I am now entirely tree from, though it had been the banc of my life for over five years. ^"""^^'.^^^^^ DACRE, Theatre Royal, Doncaster:- ^ , , , moan=^?T^'^"'i^?"^ publicly testifying to a most wonderful cure effected by Thrnn 1 f ' ^'^'"'l'*'' Food o£ Health.' My wife lately lay on the point of death. unaWo f ■ e'ven up the case as hopeless, and she was fast sinking, being la-it oxtTo J-f *^7^" '"ost weakly diluted milk or water porridge. In her •ligcstetl u an 1 ? ""'^'^ "'"'^^^ fo""' Food of Health.' To my great joy she ate and health T nn, Kot Ijcttcr, and is now once more in perfect have bromrhf TJ^uu^ °'' °£ otl^ers that this fact should be known. I to thank Dr NiX i ^ "H 'Vi" children on the ' Food of Health,' and now have make what lisc of this iTttlTr '"'"''^'^ ^^^*^' ^* ^^'^^^'^ JHE NIGHOLS-BRILL^^JC^^CHEAP. LONDON, E.C.Dr. Nichols' Soap. 19 BRILL'S SEA SALT. guarantee that pure nutriment is being supplied. The analysis of the chemist shows that it contains everything necessary for the perfect sustenance of life, and in such a combination and state as to be readily assimilated by the system. This can only be said of very few manu- factured articles. On analysis we find that Food of. Health contains a large proportion of cai-bonaceous materials for heating the body, and for being used up in the production of bodily and mental force. Nitrogen- ous matters are present in it in fair quantity; these allow various tissue changes to occur, and build up the muscles. Mineral matters are also found in abundance; these are useful for keeping the blood of proper consistence, and for building up the bones and teeth. The mineral matter is in such a combination that it does not throw down or deposit lime salts in the system, but rather has a tendency to dissolve excess of those already there, and thus prevent the premature stiffness of old age. Besides having such a perfect combination of elements in an organised state, we find that it contains a certain amount of insoluble fibres Avhich are useful in separating the particles of food, and so allowing the gastric and various intestinal juices to penetrate and dissolve out all its nourishment. These insoluble particles are also invaluable as they help to fill up the great length of intestines found in the human being. By their presence and also by the fact that they are mildly stimulating to the muscles in the walls of the intestines, these insoluble particles cause daily action of the bowels—a most important act for good health. When Food of Health is taken once daily, constipation and its accompanying evils of in- digestion, hsemorrhoids, varicose veins, back pains, etc., can scarcely exist Food of Health can be used in a variety of ways by both the hale person and the invalid. Healthy persons find it makes a good and wholesome porridge for the breakfast or lunch meal. It can also be made into biscuits and cakes. It forms a good thickening for soups. It makes good blanc-manges, and readily enters into combination with other articles. Wherever white flour is used this may be advantageously employed instead. Invalids will find that Food of Health made thin and with milk is far more nourishing and staying than three times the quantity of beef tea, mutton or chicken broth, or any dissolved meat or meat juice. These latter stimulate the vital forces and use up the vitality, but Food of Health nourishes without stimulating, and thus adds to the store of life in the ailing one. OP COOKING EGGS. There are a hundred ways of cooking eggs. They are boiled in the shell, poached, scrambled, fried,and made into omelets; but in whatever way they are cooked, great care should be taken not to make the white of the egg hard, and therefore difficult of digestion. The common mode of boiling eggs is a very bad one. The e<r^ is plunged into boiling water, and allowed to remain, the water stillToil- mg, from three minutes for soft, to five for hard boiled. The result is that the white, next the shell, is always hard, even when the yolk is quite soft. *^ If the eggs are placed in water at 180° Fahr., and kept at that temperature ten minutes, they will be tenderly and evenly cooked This requires a thermometer, and is some trouble.20 Dr. Nichols' Food of Health. BRILL'S SEA SALT. An easier way is to put the eggs into a saucepan of cold water, half a pint to each egg. Set over a fii-e hot enough to make the water boil in three or four minutes. As soon as the water boils, remove the saucepan, and let the eggs remain in the water one minute. They will then be delicately and beautifully cooked from yolk to shell. To poach eggs, break the shell, and drop them carefully into a shallow pan of boiling water, watching them until they are well set and done through, but still tender. There are tin frames made to assist this operation. Scrambled eggs are good if carefully managed, and not overdone. Break the eggs into a saucepan, in which a lump of butter is melted, or a little oil made warm. Add a little salt and pepper, and stir gently over a moderate hre until the whole is set, and is tenderly but sulEcienfly cooked. As there is no danger of overdoing this, it is one of the best ways of cooking eggs. Tomatoes and Eggs.—Cut fresh tomatoes into pieces, or take the solid part of a tin of tomatoes, put into a saucepan, heat through, then add one or two beaten up eggs, pepper, salt, and a bit of butter, cook until set, eat with dry wholemeal bread. OMELETS. It is said that every Frenchman, and of course every Frenchwoman, can make a good omelet. It is certain that not one English professed cook in a thousand ever makes a decent one. Most are flat, tough, leathery, indigestible abominations. Put a frying-pan over a hot fire, with a lump of butter, or its equiva- lent ^ of good olive or other vegetable oil. While it is coming to the cooking point, break your eggs—one to four or five, according to the quantity required, or the size of your pan—into a basin with a little seasoning : salt, pepper, sweet herbs, chopped parsley, mushroom pow- der, etc., as you like them. Some prefer them quite jjlain. Add a tablespoonful of milk for each egg; some think a little corn flour or Food of Health in the milk an improvement. Beat tlie eggs together gently—not too much. Pour into the hot pan and stir the egg about very gently until it sets evenly all over, raising the edges to keep it free, find to see when it is cooked to a light brown, when with a large knife or slide dexterously turn one half over upon the other, and slide the folded omelet upon the hot dish in readiness; put on the hot cover, and serve immediately. Savoury Omelet.—Soak wholemeal bread in cold milk and water nntil soft, then rub smooth, grate an onion, beat up an egg, and add a tew flavouring herbs, and pepper and salt to taste. Mix the whole togetlier, put in a pio-di.sh, place a few small pieces of butter on the top, ami bake about half an liour, or until done. Eat with vegetables and potatoes. Milk pudding or bread and fruit may be eaten afterwards. Tomato Omelet.—Tliis i.s made in jilnio.st tlie same way as the «avoury omelet, but without tlie addition of flavouring lierbs. Two --tyerage-sized tomatoes are cut up fhie, and mixed with the ingredient.^ Kiv-en above. Wlien tinned tomatoes are used the juice may be made "oc, and the bread soaked in it instead of milk and water.Dr. Nichols' Soap. 21 BRILL'S SEA SALT. PULSE. Peas, beans, and lentils are, as shown in our diagrams, exceedingly rich in nitrogenous, or iiesh and tissue forming material. It is from these that the vegetarian derives whatever may be lacking in rice, potatoes, and the cabbages and turnips on which he is popularly sup- posed to live. The truth is that wholemeal wheat bread, oatmeal porridge, and many kinds of fruit, contain all the elements of nutrition in very nearly the proportions required. Still, we do well on the whole to eat green peas, green or "French" beans (in their pods), and to use a certain proportion of dry peas, haricot beans, or lentils. They form the richer part of soups; they enter into the composition of vegetable stews ; and peas pudding, or baked beans, are a far " heartier " kind of fcod than any kind of flesh or fish, and make a meal for a ploughman or athlete, for useful labour, or that which is merely ornamental. As soups, pulse should be modified by lighter articles, at least three parts in four of farinaceous, or vegetable elements—say, one part of dry, pure beans, or lentils, to three (still dry weight) of barley, rice, potatoes, turnips, onions, etc. A much-advertised, and therefore high-priced, food is composed of one part lentils and three parts barley. Another advertised food is made of bakers' bread, rusked and ground into powder. They are not bad foods, but the best is not worth Is. a pound and is inferior to Food of Health. All the ripe varieties of pulse require much cooking. Peas may well be cooked into soup or pudding. Haricot beans should be soaked all night, and the water thrown away, because containing an acrid preserv- ing matter in the outer shell. Then in fresh water they should be stewed or baked until quite tisnder. The American wood-choppers let them stay all night in the iron-2)ot in a fire-hole, with coals heaped on the cover, and so have a hot and hearty breakfast. They season with a lump of salt pork or bacon. Vegetarians use instead a little nice oil or a lump of butter. For soups, it is convenient to have pea, bean, or lentil flour. It saves time, and, if bought at the grocer's, it may probably be quite sufliciently adulterated with some cheap cereal. We recommend all these very " hearty " and highly nitrogenous foods to be used in strict moderation. THE ADVANTAGES OF A VEGETARIAN DIET IN CERTAIN FEBRILE STATES. Dr. E. B, SHULDHAM writes in the Homaippathic World ;— "Amongst the variety of good things which refreshed him (his patient) durin? his lUness, Dr. Nichols' ' Food of Health' played a leading part. I can fully understand how well such food would agree with him. It is soft without heing insipid ; light, and yet nourishing withal. I heard by chance that one of the allopathic practitioners resident in Guildford had been cured of an old-standin? dyspepsia by this 'Food of Health.' A pleasant farina had triumphed over the mingled forces of bismuth, the mineral acids, and the vegetable bitters."Dr. Nichols' Food of Health. 22 BRILL'S ¥eA SAiTt! "VEGETABLES." All animals, including the human, live upon the products of the vegetable kingdom, though a few of them, the carnivorous and omni- vorous, get this matter of nutrition at second-hand, which makes it much dearer. For example, the noblest, strongest, most agile, and most beautiful and useful animals in the world live directly upon tlie products of vegetation. The squirrel, hare, rabbit, gazelle, sheep, goat, deer, horned cattle zebra, horse, dromedary, camel, girafle, hippopotamus, and ele- pnant are vegetarians. The agile monkey tribes, most nearly approaching ^^r^x^ organisation, are vegetarians, living chiefly on fruit and nuts. J-he cat and dog tribes—the wolf, tiger, lion—all beasts of prey get the elements of nutrition, as human flesh-eaters and cannibals do, at second-liand. It is a fashion or liabit they have fallen into, like our leilow-subjects tlie native FijiauM and New Zealanders, wlio habitually rel'aTi'r' "^"^ ''"'^ prisoners taken in wai-, Init at times their nearest helDlefT*^ ' T ''^ ^oiiio parts of Africa, wlien an old mnii or woman got i e sand troublesome, they called upon their cliildren and grand-Dr. Nichols' Soap. 23 BRILL'S SEA SALT. children to kill, roast, and eat them—whence, coming down from earlier times and customs, we may have derived the question whether certain deceased persons have " cut up well." The word vegetables, used in the greengrocer sense, with an appli- cation to cabbages, turnips, potatoes, etc., has been a thorn in the flesh of the vegetarians, who have vainly tried to find a better designation. I consider it good enough, and am well satisfied with the name which belongs to one of the great kingdoms of nature, living, as I do, almost entn-ely upon the products of the vegetable kingdom, though availing myself to a small extent of the industrious gatherings of cows, fowls, and bees, which have the goochiess to supply me with milk, butter, cheese eggs, and honey—all real products of vegetation, and all to be had without the sacrifice of life. Certainly there is a wide difference between getting a glass of milk from a friendly cow, an egg from a hen, or some honey from an over- flowing luve, and kiUing, roasting, and eating fowls or cattle. Vegetables, so called, though not generally rich in nutritive elements yet contain certain necessary principles of diet. Potatoes are eminently anti-scorbutic. No ship's crew ever got the scurvy if well provided with fresh or even dried potatoes, and other vegetables or fruits Spinach and other greens and salads promote the action of the bowels Leaves as of the cabbage, lettuce, etc.; stalks, as of celery and rhubarb; tubers, as of the potato, sweet potato, or yam; bulbs as the onion and lily; roots, as of the beet, carrot, parsnip, and turnip- and the vegetable maiTow, squash, and pumpkin, may be considered as substitutes for fruits, and possess many of their virtues. The tomato one of the best of all, is truly a fruit, and one that has decidedly medi- cinal properties, so that for dyspeptic and liver complaints we may well have a tomato cure, and get well by living for a time on brown bread or Food of Health Biscuits, say, and lipe, raw tomatoes—a quite suffi cient and very healthy diet. ^ Two nice and excellent vegetables, of the class gi-eens, are seldom seen m shops or markets, but can be freely gathered by the roadside in country places. Spring nettles, gathered when tender, and lightly boiled, or rather steamed, in their own sufficient moisture, with a spoon- ful of water to begin, and served on toast, make, with a bit of butter and a squeeze of lemon or dash of vinegar, as nice and healthy a dish of greens as any epicure could desire. So do dandelions before they blossom. Take a table-knife and cut off the root just below the leaves, so as to keep the mass of leaves together; pick over, wash, and boil or steam till they are tender and eat as other greens. They are slightly bitter, and considered medicinal —as are a]l_ greens, vegetables, and fruits. In fact, people who live on good food, in proper quantities, and breathe pure air, avoid noisons and have cleanly and healthy habits, generally never need nasty drugs' nor any medicines but those found in the fields, gardens, and orchards +l.5d'r^f'^Ti,^'''f'r?^'''l' ""'P^'-^S^^' '-^i^l most vegetables are the better for the addition of_ a little sugar in cooking, whidi improves both their flavoiir and nutritive properties. A squeeze of lemon-iiice or a few drops of vinegar may be added in the eating. This applies also to vegetable soups and stews. 11 '^^"^ w24 Dr. Nichols' Food of Health. Gleaners.25 Dr. Nichols' Soap. BRILL'S SEA SALT. PRACTICAL COOKERY. Most cookery books give too many recipes. You want a dozen or so of good dishes; why be obhged to select them from two or three hunched ? I have already given instructions for making bread, porridge, and for preparing greens, fruit, etc. The following recipes will be found useful, and sufficient for all ordinary purposes. SOUPS. _ This wholesome form of food should not be taken by every one. Soup IS best for invalids and for those delicate persons who require food that may be easily digested and absorbed, and it is also good as the commence- ment of a meal for tho.se who have been a long time without food. Those persons who suffer from acidity or rising of sour fluid into the mouth, and those troubled with much wind, must take soups spai ingly Most people have an idea that to make soup there must be meat or meat stock, or annual basis of some kind. This is a mistake To use the watery extract obtained by boiling bones adds very little to the- nourishmg properties of soup. But the water that vegetables have been boi ed m is extremely useful and nutritious, and English housewives make a great mistake in throwing it away. When cauliflowers, carrots turnips, onions, celery, haricot beans, macaroni, etc., have been boiled the water m which they were cooked should be saved and used as stock for vegetable soup. Another good stock is the water in which bran has been boiled for some hours and strained off. A good stock for soups is made by boiling a pound of wheat bran in a gallon of water, or in that proportion. Stir the bran into cold water • let it come slowly to the boiling point, and then simmer for two hours' Strain through a linen cloth, and bottle for use. If a little salt and a few pepper-corns and cloves are added half-an-hour before straining they will flavour the stock, and prevent fermentation. The celebrated soups of Count Eumford were made of barley peas onions, turnips, carrots, potatoes, sugar, vinegar, and cuttings of' t^fcaie bread, properly seasoned. They were rather thick and very nourishin"- and so cheaply made that he was able to feed his Bavarian soldiers and the^ beggars he converted into industrious workers, on five farthings A little sugar may enter into the composition of all vegetable souna if its sweetness be balanced by an equivalent dash of vinegar Lime or lemon juice or sorrel may be better, but they may be too dear The basis of a rich flavour for soups and stews is made by frvine- chopped or cut onions, with a little oil or butter, and some sucrar anrV vineg.ar. Stir until it is brown ; then add to it the stock, or the''water and other ingredients. Every cook should have a good hand-mill to grind wheat, barley rice etc at need A good coffee-mill will answer ; but a larger one will .save time. Hand-mills can be had from Gs. or 30s. to 50s. They soon NichoS ^"""^^"''^'■ ''^ ^'"'"''^''^ ^'SS^'y i'o^ Bavaria." By Dr.26 Dr. Nichols' Food of Health. BRILLi'S SEA SALT. pay their cost in freshly ground wheat, coarse or fine for bread or porridge. Salt should be used, if at all, in careful moderation. Its excess is injurious. It causes or aggravates some diseases, and many believe they are " better without it." Peppers and spices may excite and irritate, but their chief danger is in the temptation they give to excess. The flavoiu' of stews and soups may be improved by a slight addition of the milder sauces—like the " Reading," or sweet herbs, celery, etc.— and almost every soup or stew is the better for a little vinegar. Boiled rice, boiled macaroni, or vermicelli, or pearl barley, or Food of Health, may be added to thin vegetable soups with advantage. Pea flour, or lentil flour, facilitates the making of soups; but it is to be feared that most of such flours are like most mustards, pretty heavily adulterated with cheap farinas, which are not, however, unhealthy. "With a hand-miU you can make your own. Celery—roots, stalks, leaves, or seed—gives a nice flavour to soups. All the leaves may be saved to dry or bottle. Sweet herbs may be used with discretion. All delicate flavours should be added late in the cooking, or they will be dissipated. "When a soup is too thin it can be thickened by adding a little corn starch, or wheat flour, or Food of Health, stirred into cold milk, and then to the boiling soup. Some prefer a beaten egg, stii-red in just before serving. In both soups and stews different vegetables require diff'erent periods for cooking. Carrots need two hours ; celery an hour; turnips half an hour ; shalots ten minutes ; potatoes according to size. Skim-milk and butter-milk, both rich in flesh-forming materials, may enter into the composition of vegetable soups with advantage. A little oil or a lump of butter also improves the flavour. POTATOES. The potato is the best gift the new world gave to the old. Smokers think the best was tobacco, but that is their' blunder. The Irish are sometimes blamed for living almost entirely on the potato, but they had «ome excuse. Nothing else would give them so large a crop, and that it is good food they have shown by producing large, strong men and most beautiful women. A baked potato closely resembles bread, and to simply bake them in their jackets is one of the best modes of cooking them. If thoroughly washed with a good brush, the skins, and what lies jnsfe under, are tho best part of them, being richest in the mineral salts wliich make them so good an anti-scorbutic, which salts may be wasted by caroless peeling and too watery cooking. Next best to baking is to steam tliem in their jackets, or with them brushed or carefully scraped ofl". A proper steamer can be bought of any tinman, or ho will make you a false bottom full of holes for your pot or saucepan. A few pebbles and a plate will answer the purpose, with a little water below it, to make the steam. Tf boiled, it is well to turn off the water just before the potatoes are <lonf), wliich i.s wlion you can put a fork through the largest, and let bako a bit, in the hot kettle for a fini.sli.27 Dr. Nichols' Soap. BRILL'S SEA SALT. A baked potato should be taken with a towel in both hands, as soon as done, and slightly broken. This prevents it from shrinking and becoming soggy. To bake or steam, the potatoes should be nearly of the same size. Cut in thin slices, potatoes, well cleansed, and fried in nice olive oil, are very good eating. Steamed potatoes mashed, or, better, reduced to a pulp with two strong forks, with a little cream or milk and butter, salted to taste, make a good dish, which may be enriched or varied by the addition of boiled onions, turnips, carrots, or well-stewed peas, or beans, or lentils. Savoury Potato Batter.—Cut onions and potatoes into slices, fry in oil or butter, fill a pie-dish with them; make a batter from 'whole- meal or Food of Health, egg and milk ; pour over and bake in the oven for an hour. We know a musical composer and author whose favourite dish is a compound of potato, Spanish onion, and oatmeal. He considers it the richest and most satisfying or nutritious dish in the world; and as potatoes can often be bought for |d. a pound, the onions for a penny, and oatmeal for 2d., it is not dear living. SALADS. Dietetic—Salads are invaluable in cases of gout, rheumatism ^all- stones, stone in the kidney or bladder, and in a gravelly condition of the water and impure condition of the system. Salad dressing may come in here as well as anywhere. At the period of the French Eevolution of '93, a noble emigre got a good living by going to great houses in London before dinner parties and dressino^ the salad. " In this way:—For a salad for four persons, put into a suitable dish a. teaspoonful of salt, a tablespoonful of powdered white sugar, and a laree-. teaspoonful of made mustard, the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs. Some prefer to have also one raw egg, a tablespoonful of olive oil, and" a small boiled potato, a tablespoonful of chopped shalot or onion. "Work them, well together ; then add a little vinegar—just enough to neutralise the- sugar. Mix well with the salad, which may be of lettuce, or dandelion alone, or mixed with sorrel, tomatoes, potatoes, boiled beet root etc. as sold by the greengrocers. ' ' The salad is commonly eaten just before the " sweets," but vegetarians make it a central dish, and eat it at any time after the soup or make a meal of it and bread. ' Cold potatoes may be chopped up with cold beet root, carrots turnips or cabbage, or all together, and heated with a lump of butter or a httle' oil in a frying-pan or saucepan, with salt, pepper, a sprinkle of seasoned sweet herbs to taste, and served hot. This dish is excellent eatincr and none the wor.se for a little mustard, and a few diops of lemon iuice or vinegar. •* ^ A savoury sauce for many vegetable dishes may be made by puttin^r n'^^ I r iT. fi' Po^^lfed sugar, oil, vinegar, salt, and mustard^ and .shake all together. Of the sauces sold at shops, mild ones, like the Eeadmg are to be preferred to the very hot ones like the Worcester- v^^u'^f ^^'^ sauce-but we see no harm in making food palatable by the moderate use of natural flavours.28 Dr. Nichols' Food of Health. SAVOURY SAUCES. Flesh eaters have the gravy of meat to eat with their vegetables, and when they give up the use of flesh they are often at a loss for a good substitute. Sauces may be useful in more ways than one. When not too highly spiced or seasoned they help to prevent thirst, as they supply the system with fluid, and when made with the liquor in which vege- tables have been boiled they retain many valuable salts which would otherwise have been lost. When foods are eaten in a natural condition no sauces are required, but when food is changed by cooking many persons require it to be made more appetising, as it is called. The use of sauces is thus seen to be an aid to help down plain and wholesome food, and being fluid they cause the food to be more thoroughly broken up and made into a porridgy mass before it is swallowed. From a health point of view artificial sauces are not good, but if made as I direct very little harm will result. Wheatmeal Sauce.—Mix milk and water together in equal propor- tions, add a grated onion, and boil; rub a little fine wheatmeal flour or Food of Health into a paste with cold water. Mix this with the boiling milk and water, and let it thicken; add a little pepper and salt to taste. Eat this with vegetables. Parsley Sauce.—This is made as the above, but some finely chopped parsley is added five minutes before serving. Caper Sauce.—Leave out the onions, otherwise make as wheatmeal sauce. Add capers and cook ten minutes after adding them. This goes very well with plain boiled macaroni, or macaroni batter, or macaroni with turnips, etc. Boiled Onion Sauce.—This is made as wheatmeal sauce, but plenty of boiled and chopped onions are mixed in it. This goes well with any plain vegetables. Tomato Sauce.—Cut up fresh or tinned tomatoes, cook with water and finely chopped onions; when done rub through a sieve, boil up again, thicken with wheatmeal flour or Food of Health made into a paste with water. Add a little butter, pepper, and salt. Eat with vegetables or savoury dishes. Brown Gravy.—Put a tabiespoonful of butter or olive oil into a fry- ing pan or saucepan, make it hot, dredge in a tablespoonful of fine wheatmeal flour or Food of Health, brown this, then add boiling water ■with pepper and salt to taste. A little mushroom or walnut ketchup may be added if desired. Eat with vegetables or savouries. Fried Onion Sauce.—Chop fine an onion, fry, add wheatmeal or Food of Health, and make into a sauce like brown gravy. Herb Sauce.—Make like brown gravy, and add mixed herbs a httle b?foro .serving. The last tluoe .sauces mu.st be used with great caution or not at^all l)y tlio.se who are troubled with heartburn, acidity, biliousness, or SKua oniptions of any kind. Tlio water in which vegetables (except cabbage or potatoes) have been >»iioa 18 better for making sauces than ordinary water. BRILL'S SEADr. Nichols' Soap. Childhood's Happy Days,Dr. Nichols' Food of Health. 30 BHILL'S SEA SALT. RECIPES FOR BREAD AND OTHER SIMPLE AND HEALTHY FARINACEOUS PREPARATIONS. WHOLE WHEATMEAL BREAD.—Baking powder J oz.; wheatmeal 2 lb.; a little salt; cold water 1 pint. Mix the powder well with the meal, then pour the water on gradually, stirring it quickly with a wooden spoon into a light dough of such consistency as will scarcely bear kneading, which it will not require. Put it into a tin, or make it into a round loaf, and bake it immediately. "WHOLEMEAL YEAST BREAD Put in a bread mug about 7 lb. wholemeal flour. Make a hole in the centre of the flour, and into this pour a quart of warm water, in which about ^ oz. of German yeast has been dissolved. Gradually mix flour and yeast together until well mixed into a dough, and allow to ferment ar. hour before the fire. Then add a little more warm water, and a little salt, 1 or 2 tablespoonfuls, according to taste. Knead well again, let stand another hour in front of the fire, then fill your bread tins from this, and bake from an hour and a half to two hours. This bread is not spongy and light, but it is wholesome. FRUMENTY, once a kings' dish, as we know from the tale of Tom Thumb, and a food of our robust ancestors in autumn, is wheat soaked over night, and boiled until it cracks open. Eat with honey, sugar and milk, or treacle, or stewed raisins. DURHAM PUDDING.—Soak 1 lb. of wheat in 2 quarts of water for twelve hours; then stew in a jar in the oven till tender; add ^ lb. raisins, or other fruit, and bake till done. FRITTERS, or Fried Cakes, are made of wheatmeal, buckwheat, maizemeal, or best of all, of Food of Health. Mix baking powder with the meal, wet with milk or water to a soft batter, and fry in oil or butter. Eat with golden or any fruit syrup. OATMEAL PORRIDGE.—Sprinkle and stir oatmeal into boiling water, keep briskly boiling, until of the consistence of cream, and boil twenty minutes. Eat with milk, and flavour with a little salt, if eaten. WHEATMEAL PORRIDGE.—Same as above; but care that the water boils is TOore necessary. Wheat cooks in ten minutes. Eat with milk and stewed fruit, or baked apples and bread. Wheatmeal, Wheaten Groats, or Dr. Nichols' Food of Health, prevent and cure ■constipation, and are prepared as above found. OATMEAL STEWED.—Put into a moderate oven, in a stone jar, I lb. of rough Scotcli oatmeal with a quart of water. Take out and stir up at intervals. It requires to be in the oven for about one hour and a half ; it is then delicious, and eats like cream. It will keep sweet and fresh three days. OATMEAL PUDDING.—Add a pint of round oatmeal to a quart of new milk warmed. Stir the oatmeal into the milk, and let them stand all night. Butter a basin, put in the oatmeal .and milk, stirring in a spoonful of baking powder, then tic over a well-floured cloth, and boil fully two hours. If eaten as a pudding, serve with custard sauce, with black currant jam sauce, or with treacle sauce. If eaten as meat—and good " meat " it is—then use tomato sauce. Tinned tomatoes cost 7(1. to [)d. a tin ; a quarter of a tin, fried with butter, flour, salt, and water for ten minutes, will be enough for three or four adults, or half-a-dozen cliiklreii, giving a meal of the most wholesome and nutritious character at the lowest possible cost.—ir. Gib.w,i Ward. 8TE FOR PIES AND PUDDINGS.-A pound of flour or wheatmeal, or Food of Health 2 oz. butter, a Icaspoonful of baking powder, and 2 oz. powdered white sugar. Mix the baking powder well with the flour ; rub in the butter ; add B pint wa er; mix with a wooden spoon, but do not knead it; then take out of the bowl ana roll, fold in three and roll af^ain, and if not sufficiently smooth, roll a third time.—A good short crust can be made with 6 oz. flour, 3 oz. ground rice, 1 oz. nom i '"^'Y' "".'^ '^"•'tc. Hub together : mix with a little cold milk.—Some 2 07 oiFf'' ,^?''n° "'^ pastry. The best Lucca oil should be obtained ; 5»thorm.cr°T,iv!i-?'-V''-, ^^"^ "''^"^^ °* oil well into the flour, SO that the oil ""gify tlistnbutcrt among the dry flour ; then mix with water and roll out.31 Dr. Nichols' Soap. BRILL'S SEA SALT. . JlTiIS ^'''^ Pudding," is one of the cheapest ho -1 -^^""^^ l"^^ °eeds a longer boiling. Eat with sugar and milk, or butter and treacle. Get s^Yect meal, or buy the maize and grind it m a hand-mill. It may be mixed with oatmeal, wheat- meal, or flour of peas or haricots. ' '"'^^'''^ f.^^Tvci ^r"^' °f should be eaten slowly, and with dry food like' toast or b scuits, and kept m the mouth for insalivation. No time is gained by hurried eating, but much lost, because it injures health and shortens life HOW TO BOIL RICE._Wash 1 lb. of rice, and throw it into a quart of boiling water; boil for ten minutes, or until each grain is rather soft, but Separate ; S t m a CO ander, put it back m a pot which you have slightly greased with bi™ let it swell slowly near the fire, or in the oven, until M-anted! A Httle buLr may be added; each grain will then swell up, and be well separated ^ ANOTHER WAY.—Measure one-third rice, two-thirds cold water ■ nut in t ba-^in or ]ar that will just hold it, and place in a'saucepan with water CcoW) reach^^^ a^SM^ sr^ss^s^ifKof ^^^^^^ SOUPS. BARLEY SOUP.-l lb of barley steeped over night in water; add carrots and turnips cut into small pieces, onions and parsley, and a little olive oil or butter boi together for three hours, and season to taste. Like all vegetable soups this will be improved by sugar and vinegar, and bits of dry bread or crusts POTATO SOUP -Take 3J lb. potatoes, boiled in their iackets, peel and mash smooth ; chopped omon with two quarts of boiling wateis 4 oz of nea flour a httle olive oil or butter, sugar and vinegar, bits^of bread, and seasoning of salt and pepper or sweet herbs. Lentil, pea, and bean soups are better for barley LENTIL SOTTP.-l lb. Egyptian lentils, 1 lb. onions, 2 lb. peeled potatoes,'4 oz butter 2 quarts of water. Pick and wash the lentils, and steep all night Put on in foesh eold water with salt two and-a-half hours before wanted : add the onion" peeled and sliced. An hour previous to seiving, add the potatoes sliced, the butte'-' and season v/ith pepper and salt, sugar and vinegar. HAEICOT BEAN SOUP.-Two teacupfuls of beans, J lb. of onions 1 lb of potatoes, 1 lb. turnips, i oz. butter, 2 quarts water; pepper and salt to taste Wash and steep the beans m cold water all night. In the morning drain and nut" on in fresh cold water, with the onions sliced, the butter, and a little =alt thrcf^ hours before wanted. An hour after, add the potatoes and turnips peeled and sliced. Boil the whole slowly, stirring occasionally. If required thicker add i Ih of barieymeal, or oatmeal, or Food of Health, mixed in a little cold water iw^iit^ minutes before serving. ' ""^'"J^ GEEEN PEA S0UP.-2 quarts green peas, 1 small onion, a sprig of parsley cut fine; 2 quarts ho water Boil slowly half-an-hour. Add a pint of smaU new potatoes and a tablcspoonful of sugar. Boil again till the potatoes are done-then add a pint of milk, boil a couple of mmutes and serve, with toast separately VEGETABLE SOUP.-Thc broths or foundations of vegetable soups may be prepared from-4 carrots, 2 turnips, 2 heads celery, 4 onions, a slice of ToTsted bread, 4 quarts water ; or 1 turnip, 1 carrot, 1 head celery, 4 oz. onions 3 07 J"..^^.. 1-"'''^^^' * ^^^te^ '• 6 potatoes, G onions' 0 can-ots, 4 turnips, 3 celery heads, 4 oz. butter, or brown toast, 4 quarts water' To make, put the prepared vegetables into the cold water, heat slowly^and simme^" until they are reduced to a pulp, skimming well at fir t; then mss the whole through a colander, then a sieve. If a broth is wanted for clear soup let it set? e Sni w f I'T"?; d° foi- tl'ick soup or s cws 01 in Soyer s fashion put butter and sugar in a stcwpan, add the sliced vegctabte stew them carefully till tender and browned, then add boiling water, brLcf boiSl neal of i' '^"^ uT^'' °[ '^PP^*'- '"''^y ^'^ ^tWed to these vegetable bS wi h sugar and vinegar, butter and oil, and any kind of seasoning. 'Dr. Nichols' Food of Health. BRILL'S SEA SALT. SOUPS FOR INVALIDS may be prepared from bran water ; what is called the stock of the soup should be made from bran ; eight ounces of bran should be boiled in a quart of water, till it simmers down to a pint; it should then be carefully strained. It should be made fresh every day, and should be used as the stock for invalids'soup. Bran water allays irritability of the stomach and prevents vomit- ing ; it is the best thing to be mixed in the milk for infants."—y/te Veqctarian Almavac for IS82. POTATO SOUP. —This very easily made and nourishing dish is thus prepared : Peel and cut raw potatoes into a saucepan, allow a pint of water for each pound of potatoes ; shred in an onion or two, add a little pepper and salt to taste, boil until the potatoes are done, and then rub the whole through a sieve, warm again and serve. Eat with wholemeal bread, or wholemeal bread toast. This soup may be made more nourishing by using milk and water in equal parts instead of water only. It can be made richer by adding a little butter, and very savoury by frying the onions in butter, and adding them to the soup before serving. Those who do not like onions, or who are averse to the odour that they give the breath, may chop- some parsley fine, and add to the soup instead. VEGETABLE SOUP.—Cut fine any kind of vegetables, such as carrots, turnips, onions, potatoes, celery, parsnips, tomatoes, artichokes, cauliflowers, or whatever vegetables are in season. Boil them well in a suitable quantity of water, thicken with whcatmeal flour or Food of Health, add pepper and salt to taste, and eat cool with brown bread. For invalids the vegetables, when cooked, may be rubbed through a colander or hair sieve. This soup may be varied in many ways : pearl barley, groats, rice, hominy, macaroni, semolina, vermicelli, or other farinaceous flour or product may be used to thicken it or give it variety. A Uttle butter added just before it is served makes it richer, but not more wholesome. If the onions or vegetables are fried before being added, they make the soup very savoury, but may cause it to repeat or give rise to slight biliousness. PEA, BEAN, OE LENTIL SOUP.—These soups are made in very much the same way -■as the vegetable soup, but a little lentil, pea, or bean flour is added as well as, or instead of, the wheatmeal flour ; or whole peas, beans, or lentils may be used. These soups are more flatulent than those made of fresh vegetables, and should not be ftjsed by persons inclined to flatulency. Soaked tapioca or sago is useful to thicken soups, and makes them more nourishing. In winter, soups may be eaten warm, but never hot; and in the summer time they may be taken quite cold. FRUIT SOUPS.—In summer these dishes are enjoyable. Any kind of ripe fruit is "boiled in water; wheatmeal, semolina, sago, or tapioca is added to thicken it, and ti little sugar may be added ; it must be eaten cool with wholemeal bread, toast, or wholemeal rusks. A winter fruit soup is made by cutting wholemeal bread into bits, boiling in water until it is thoroughly soft; apples are then cut into this, and the soup is again boiled until the apples arc dissolved ; a little sugar, cinnamon, or other spice may be added. Eat when cool with wholemeal bread. A':i?.—All soups can be advantageously thickened with Food of Health, which should be added half-an-hour before serving. " VEGETABLES." TURNIPS should be boiled in plenty of water. To mash, i>ut them in a saucepan ovei the hre, with a bit of butter, or sour milk, or cream, salt, pepper, and a pinch of sugar ; mash until rather dry, and serve. ^""^ ^o'^^ YOUNG BEETS, when the crop is thinned out, make a wlu "Jf of greens, cooked and served like spinach. The tender ica,\ cs oE rhubarb the same. Thov nnfJ^^^ll^''".'^"'"^'^ '^^ England as a vegetable, are very sweet and nutritious. t.Iain r 1 • '"'^^ «l<in« on. and scraped afterwards. May be either ham ^'^t-'c vinegar being added ; fried they make imitation bu?to^°^,!.^"'■^ u^^o'^p'^ water with n little salt till tender, and served with ftiKl RtcwcTl w .7 -n"^"^crcd dish with a little milk or gravy ; cut in quarters, Ml-'vnish oniona n^), ,' '!V^''^':' Vm>^T, and a little flour. The large and mild cnmt of t.a,tc rcno?voL° i T •'^"^^ l^ilcd or steamed like a pudding. A ijtoj-cccivcsaml retains the flavour. Or first boil, then bake in a paper.Dr. Nichols' Soap. 33 BRILL'S SEA SALT. HOT POT.—Peel and slice potatoes, also some onions : put them in alternate layers in a deep pie dish, taking care that there is a layer of potatoes on the top of the dish. Dissolve some salt in warm water, and add a little pepper and a few bits of butter; pour into the dish until the fluid nearly fills the dish ; bake in a hot oven a couple of hours. This may be varied by putting soaked tapioca near the bottom of the dish, or some savoury herbs may be added. A SUBSTITUTE FOE POTATOES.-Steam or boil one pound of turnips • mash them well over the fire, sprinking in about 2 ounces of oatmeal or peas-meal very slowly ; put the mixture into a buttered dish, and brown it before the fire or in an oven. A little pepper, salt, and sugar should be added according to taste. JEEUSALEM ARTICHOKES can be boiled and eaten like potatoes. Clean put into warm water, with a little salt, boil till tender, and serve ; or mash as soon as done, with salt, pepper, and butter. They can be treated in every way Uke turnins and are nice in soup. •/ j f > POTATOES, ONIONS, etc .-Boil and mash the potatoes; boil the onions, and pass through a sieve; mix the whole well in a stewpan, adding a Uttle butter, and serve while hot. * BEAIZED ONIONS.-To prepare braized onions fry them first until nicely brown, using butter or ohve oil, then add a cupful of boiling water to the contents of the ^^^^kT' ^'^^-^ Pl-*^' ^""^ ^f* "^"^ J^o"^- This is not really a rich food, but one easy of digestion and of great use to the sleepless. ISISH STEW.-Into one pint of water put twelve good-sized potatoes (cut in halves or quarters), six large Enghsh onions and one carrot chopped up a Uttle parsley two ounces of butter, with pepper and salt. Let them boil till the vegetables are quite done, but not broken. May be done in an oven TRIED COLD POTATOES.-Cut the potatoes in slices nearly half-inch thick dredge slightly with flour and salt. Fry in a little butter until nicely browned POTATOES AND MIIK.-Slice or chop up cold potatoes. Put into a saucepan with a little butter, pepper, salt, and milk. Set over the fire, and boil a few brSast dfsh .'"^ " ^''^ "^^^^ a POTATO SAIAD.-Cut cold boiled potatoes in thin slices; add a little raw parsley, chopped ; pour some salad dressing over. Some co d boiled beetrooT sliced, and laid on the top, improves it, and watercress is a good addition MASHED POTATOES AND ONIONS.-Wash and peel the potatoes " peel the onions, and set both on to boil in separate saucepans The oniom will fni^ i to boil than the potatoes. Strain aL mash-firKpaitely! then t^l^^^^^^^^^ a httle warm milk, but er, pepper, and salt. Arrange on a dish, score with 7fork cover, and serve immediately; or put into the oven and brown lightly ' MASHED POTATOES AND PEAS-Soak the peas overnight; boil until soft Wash, peel the potatoes, and boil. Strain both, and mash toiether the same wit as for potatoes and onions. A teacupful of peas will do for if lb of potatoes ^ POTATO OMELET.-llb. peeled potatoes, 1 lb. breadcrumbs, 1 egg i oz buttp. Boil the potatoes, and when done and drained, mash fine with the butter bread crumbs, egg well beaten-^season with pepper and salt. Put into a buetr^l Suterruce. ''"^ " ' brownef Serve STEWED HAEICOT BEANS.-Wash and soak the beans all night In ih. morning pour of! water and put fresh cold water with a hHU onu \, • until tender (about five hours]. Drain, andlerveVlIh pai-sley an^^^ HEEB POWDEE FOE SOUPS, OMELETS, etc.-Take 2 o. each oJ" n.r,l winter savoury, sweet marjoram, and lemon thyme; 1 oz each loLn ,^T^^i sweet basil; 6 bay leaves, and oz. celery seed. Remove fhc iX^.S ""^^ leaves on white paper before a moderate firef Pare the lemon-peel vert thfnT and pound in a mortar; also the celery seed - rub the hprh« ^nii^, "° ' ^'^^ whole through a hair sieve. Keep in a bottle corSd ^^'^ ^'^^ o^^^^llr^flt^^^^^^^^ Piclcled walnuts; bottle it34 Dr. Nichols' Food of HealtS: BRILL'S SEA SALT. Macaroni boiled as above may be mixed with grated cheese, and made hot in the oven. MACABONI AU GRATIN.—Put a pound of macaroni into plenty of hoiling water, with an onion. Allow this to boil for about an hour, or till the macaroni is thoroughly tender. Drain the macaroni thoroughly ; put it into a dish ; add some butter or oil, and several tablespoonfuls of cream; mix grated cheese and some salt with it, and sprinkle some crumbs of stale bread, more gi-ated cheese, and some pounded boiled chestnuts over it. Brown the dish before the fire. The chestnuts give a very nice flavour to it.—J. Malcolm, in " Dietetic Reformer." Very nice, but toasted cheese is not good for dyspeptics. MACARONI WITH TOMATO SAUCE.—Break the macaroni into pieces, put it into hoiling water, and let it boil till swollen out, when it will be quite tender. An hour's fast boiling will probably be requisite. Have ready a sauce made of milk (a breakfast cupful), some butter, one large or two small onions cut into small shreds, and some tomatoes or tomato sauce. Mix all these together, and cook till the onion is quite dissolved. Then, having drained the macaroni thoroughly on a . sieve, add it to the sauce in a stewpan, and warm the whole till thoroughly mixed. Add salt to the taste. By way of variety some grated Parmesan or other cheese may be added to the sauce.—J. Malcolm, in " Dietetic Reformer." TOMATOES, BAKED.—Pour boiliug water over the tomatoes to loosen the skin; peel; cut in thick slices, and place them in a well-buttered baking-dish, with a little salt and pepper, and butter in bits. Cover with bread-crumbs, in which mix grated cheese and powdered sweet herbs. Bake twenty or thirty minutes. Or stew over fire, stirring in the bread-crumbs and seasoning. EICE FRITTERS.—With boiled rice mix a little flour and beaten egg; make into thin cakes, and fry in oil or butter. Vegetarians who like to imitate flesh foods make " Bread Steaks."—Soak slices of bread, or toast, on a flat dish, in a little milk or cream, till rather soft; season as liked ; beat up an egg or two; dip in the slices, and fry in a little butter. Serve with brown gravy or any mild sauce. BATTERS. These dishes take the place of omelets and frequently of pies, to both of which they are in many particulars similar. The batter is used to keep the ingredients together, and adds to their wholesomeness. SAVOURY BATTER.—Mix two eggs, milk, and wholemeal flour, or Food of Health, together, flavour with pepper and salt, add one grated onion, pour into a pie-dish, and bake for an hour. Eat with baked potatoes and vegetables. Milk pudding may form a second course. POTATO BATTER.—Thoroughly wash some potatoes, do not peel, cut in thin slices, fry in butter or oil, chop up onions, which fry, and add to the potatoes. Put all into a pie-dish, pour over a batter made from two eggs, milk and wholemeal flour, or Food of Health, with pepper and salt to taste. Bake an hour or an hour and a half, and eat with vegetables. Bread pudding, wheatmeal blancmange, or breaxl and fruit may be eaten afterwards. This dish must be avoided by the bilious or those of weak digestion. VEGETABLE BATTER.—Cut fine any kinds of mixed vegetables, such as carrots, lurnipg, onions, ])arsiiips, beetroot, celery, etc., add an ounce of butter, and cook Blow y in a small quantity of water. When done put into a pic-dish, strain ofi; v,.r , li may remain. Mix this with the batter, pour tlie batter over the v,rL 1 i',-*^"'^ ^'^'^'^ foi' an hour. Eat with vegetables and bread ; have milk or bread pudding afterwards. non^P^^^i i*'^ ^^!SURRECTION BATTER.—All kinds of cold vegetables, cold mus \£'Z\ r or cold soup, may be used for making this. The vegetables poured ovor 11';^' ^1'^ ^'^'■'""8 ingredients well mixed together. The batter is tables musH,^ ul ■ baked for an hour. When soup is used the vcge- or tinned tomn>oo'"° , '•''"'^ "sed for making batter. Frial onions, wholcBome od, !. nmi, ° r"^^ Pfilatnble. This is a pleasant way of using up without voKoiai.C . ^Mi '^o"l<l otherwise be wasted. Eat with or ^ ^'ca , milk pudding or broad and fruit may be taken afterwards.35 Dr. Nichols' Soap. BRILL'S SEA SALT. VEGETABLE PIES. These dishes must be used sparingly as the crust is apt to cause acidity, heart- burn, and lie heavily on the stomach. Those who are troubled with spots, pimples, or any skin eruptions should abstain from them. POTATO PIE.—Slice potatoes and onions, stew with a little water until nearly done, put into a pie-dish, flavour with herbs, pepper, and salt, add a little soaked tapioca, and very little butter, cover with wholemeal crust and bake an hour. In making the least objectionable pie-crust use only a quarter of a pound of butter, or a proportionate quantity of olive oil to one pound of wheatmeal, or Food of Health. Roll or touch with the fingers as little as possible, and mix with milk instead of water. Eat this with green vegetables. Bread pudding, wheatmeal blancmange, or bread and fruit may be eaten after\^-ards. VEGETABLE PIE.—This is made like the vegetable batter, but a crust is put over the vegetables instead of the batter being poured over them. Soaked sago or tapioca adds to its nourishing qualities. Mushrooms or hard boiled eggs give variety, if desired. Bread or milk puddings may be eaten afterwards. TOMATOES AND ONION PIE,—Cut tomatoes and Spanish onions in flices, put into a pie-dish in alternate layers, add a little soaked tapioca, pepper and salt, and a little butter to taste. Put in sufficient water to make gravy, cover with whole- meal crust, bake an hour and a half, eat with baked potatoes and bread. Bread or milk puddings may be eaten afterwards. SAVOURIES. MACAEONI is one of the most nutritious farinaceous foods. It is made from Italian wheat, which contains more flesh-forming matter than butcher's meat. In the manufacture of macaroni, some of the bran is removed from the flour, but the meal left is still very rich in flesh-forming matter. As the coarser particles of the bran have been taken away, macaroni is slightly constipating, and must therefore always be eaten with green vegetables, onions, or fruit. Macaroni should always be boiled before being made into various dishes. It may be cooked in plain water, or in milk and water ; a little salt may be added by those who use it, and care' .should be taken to use just enough water to cook it in, so that when the macaroni is done, little or no fluid may be left, but if any does remain it should be saved for sauce, stock for soup, etc., as it contains valuable nutritive material. Macaroni takes from twenty minutes to an hour to cook, according to the kind used. That which is slightly yellow is to be preferred to the white, as the latter is usually poorer than the former in mineral salts and flesh-forming substances. From 2 to 4 oz. may be regarded as the amount to be allowed at a meal for grown-up persons. A very simple, nourishing, and satisfying meal can be made from macaroni plainly boiled ; it may be eaten with any kind of vegetables, or baked potatoes, or fried onions, and, if desired, with onion, caper, or parsley sauce. ' MACAEONI BATTER is made by putting cooked macaroni into a pie-dish. Make a thin batter with wholemeal flour, or Food of Health, milk, and one egg," flavour with a little pepper and salt, pour this over the macaroni, and then bake until the top is nicely browned. Eat with vegetables and sauce. MACAEONI CHEESE is made in the same way as the batter, but grated cheese IS sprinkled over the macaroni before the batter is poured on. Allow an ounce of cheese for each person. MACAEONI SAVOURY.—Put boiled macaroni into a pie-dish, fry some Spanish onions, mix these with the macaroni, pour the batter over, and bake. This makes a very tasty dish. Eat with green vegetables. Macaroni cheese or savoury should not be eaten by bilious or dysnentic nersons nor by persons troubled with any skin complaint. Those afflicted with constina.' ion' varicose veins, or piles had better not cat macaroni at all. Rice, sago, tapioca, oi' ?nlwS'"^ivhi° r,! be eaten after a macaroni dish, as both coui'scs tend to constipate Wholemeal bread pudding, or fruit and wholemeal bread, should always form the second course. o^uuiu nnJ'non^nnSt.-r'^ "l-f'^ ^^^^ when mixed with nitrogcnous tnlT; • • P 1 f °^ '^'"^ '^oth nourishing and sustaining. First wash the nee in cold or tepid water, and then throw it into boiling waterf AboutDr. Nichols' Food of Health. 36 BRILL'S SEA SALT. twenty minutes is required in the cooking. The rice may be eat:n plainly boiled, or with other foods. KICE AND TOMATOES—Boil the rice as above, add a little pepper, salt, and butter to it, put on a warm dish, and place baked fresh tomatoes on the top, the juice that drains from the tomatoes being poured over them. If the tinned tomatoes are used, these may be stirred amongst the rice when it is done, the whole again warmed through, and then served. This dish should be eaten with a green vegetable of some sort. EICE AND LENTILS.—Boil the rice as above; stew Egyptian lentils with chopped onions, pepper, salt, and a little butter, until well done. Put the rice on a dish, pour over the stewed onions and lentils, serve, and eat with green vegetables. KICE AND ONIONS.—Boil whole onions in water until done quite through, remove them from the water, and put in it washed rice, with a little pepper, salt, and butter. When done, serve with the onions, and eat with a green vegetable. . Eice should be avoided by the stout, the costive, and those troubled with varicose veins, piles, etc., but it may be freely eaten by the thin. NITEOGENOUS FOODS.—These foods are such as dried peas, beans, and lentils. They are very strong foods, and should be used chiefly by labourers or those engaged in outdoor or indoor hard physical work. As they are very flatulent, they should be avoided by those to whom this is objectionable. DBIED FEAS.—These can be boiled for some hours with onions, carrots, and turnips, pepper and salt, and may be eaten cool with wholemeal bread. A pleasant accompaniment is sago, soaked and added about twenty to thirty minutes before the stew is served up. If the sago is added much earlier the stew will have a tendency to " catch " or burn. Pea flour can be added to vegetable soup, a table- spoonful to a quart, just rubbed smooth with a little cold water and well stirred in. PEASE BBOSE is made by the Scottish peasant in this way. He puts some pea flour into a basin, and pours boiling water over it, at the same time stirring and thoroughly mixing the meal and water together. When mixed, he adds a little salt, pepper, and butter, and eats it with or without oatcake. BEANS.—In France these are called the "poor man's meat," and are very nutritious. ^ They are cooked in a variety of ways ; when plainly boiled they may be eaten with potatoes and vegetables at dinner ; a little parsley s.auce goes well with them. The water they are boiled in makes a good stock for soups. BEAN PIE is made from boiled beans, which are put in a pie dish ; soaked tapioca, flavouring herbs, pepper, salt, and butter are added; a cup of water is poured in to make the gravy, a crust is put on the top, and then baked for an hour or so. This is a tasty dish. Cold beans are very nice if warmed in a frying pan with oil or butter, and may be eaten with potatoes, vegetables, and sauce. Mashed beans, flavoured with pepper, salt, and mace, and put into pots, make an excellent 8ub.stitut« for potted meat. LENTILS.—The red Egyptian kind make vegetable soup very tasty. The brown I'T'i? ^'^'"'^tJ) when stewed with onions, sago, and vegetables, make a very palatable dish. Lentils and barley flour are the basis of many nourishing patent tooos, three parts of barley being mixed with one of lentil meal. SWEETS. ft^^f^f^?"''''* dishes should form in themselves fts wh*^ t '^^^ wholesome dishes are those made from the entire grain, those m l'^f or barleymeal puddings or blancmanges. Then follow vermipnirfarinaceous products, as rice, sago, tapioca, macaroni, semolina, i?o«fi «r. „ '^''■"^■■oot. cornflour, custards, cte. Vegetable sweet batters are very A verv Hi° stewed fruits, whilst vegetable pics are the least wholesome, bread wliXm ?° ^"^^^ second course at dinner is one composed of wholemeal Next to rusks, or wliolemcal biscuits, and raw ripe seasonable fruit, fruit should ZZ^f^""^^^ ^'■'"''^ ^'■•»*> -^"^l then «'<5>vc<l dried fruit. Stewed fresh green pl„ms Lri • ^ , ^^imU. Unripe fruit, as green gooseberries, niuch BUKar is ?co, rIT T'^u-* ^'"^^ '^'""c, n«, to make them palatable, !_ and this 18 injurious. For this reason rhubarb is not good,Dr. Nichols' Soap. 37 BRILL'S SEaTaLt! and as it contains oxalate of lime it should not be used by rheumatic persons, nor those troubled with a tendency to stone in the kidneys or bladder. ^\'heatmeal made into puddmgs forms the basis of the most substantial sweet dishes that we have. WHEATMEAL MOULD.—Mix three parts of a pint of milk with one part of water, pour half of this mixture into a saucepan, and boil. Mix i oz. of wheatmeal, or Fo.jd of Health, with the remainder of the mixture of milk and water, and make itint: a batter. Add sugar and spice to taste. Pour this into the boiling milk and wato.-, LO..k five minutes, and then pour into a mould which has been rinsed out with cold water. Serve when cold, and eat with stewed fruit. CHOCOLATE WHEATMEAL MOULD.-Use a bar of chocolate to a pint of milk. Break the chocolate into bits, put into a saucepan with a quarter-pint of boiling water, and thoroughly dissolve the chocolate. Mix i oz. of wheatmeal, or Food of Health, in three-quarters of a pint of milk, and pour into the saucepan. Cook five or ten minutes, and pour into a cold mould as before. More sugar than that con- tained in the chocolate is not necessary. Eat when cold. WHEATMEAL FRUIT MOULDS.—Well stew any kind of summer fresh fruit, rub through a sieve, thicken with wheatmeal flour, or Food of Health, allowinf»- i oz of meal to each pint of fruit juice, add a little sugar, boil about five minutes, and pour into a cold mould. Eat when cold. In winter use the juice of three oranges, to the pint of water, or the juice of one lemon to the pint of water, sweeten to taste" and prepare as above. When making a mould of fresh fruit a double saucepan or an enamelled one should always be used, as the fruit acids attack the metal of ordinary pans, dissolve some of it, spoil the fiavour of your dish, and in the case- of tinned or copper vessels are positively injurious. WHOLEMEAL SWEET BATTER.—Stew, until well done, dried or fresh fruits in sufiBcient water to barely cover them, and pour into a pie-dish ; make a fairly thick batter of wheatmeal flour-, or Food of Health, milk, and one or two eggs (whisk the latter before adding) ; pour this over the fruit, and bake for an hour. Som& add little bits of butter to the batter before cooking ; this makes the dish" tastier but not more wholesome or nourishing. BOILED WHEATMEAL BATTER.—Make a batter as above, add to it a few f-ultana-s, a little sugar and spice, pour into a pudding basin, tie a cloth over boil for an hour, and cat with a sweet sauce. ' WHOLEMEAL BREAD PUDDING.-Soak brown bread in cold milk and water - when soft, reduce to a pulp; add sultanas, chopped fine almonds, a little sugar and a whisked egg. Put into a buttered pic-dish, put a few bits of butter on the' top bake in the oven till brown at the top, turn out on to a flat dish, and cat with a sweet sauce. BOILED WHEATMEAL PUDDING.-Make same as the above, but leave out the butter, and boil in a cloth or basin. WHOLEMEAL CABINET PUDDING—Thinly butter slices of wholemeal bread pick over some sultanas, chop fine some almonds ; put the bread in layers in a pie- dish, sprinkle the almonds, raisins, and a little sugar between each layer until the dish is nearly full ; beat up an egg with some milk and pour over the bread until the top layer is just covered ; bake about half-an-liour. This must be avoided hv the bilious and those inclined to skin eruptions. WHOLEMEAL FRUIT PUDDING.-Line a' deep dish or basin with slices of wholemeal bread cut a quarter of an inch thick ; pour into the disli any kind of hot stewed fruit until it is full ; cover with a layer of l)rcad, put a plate over it so as to press the contents of the dish together, and let cool. Turn out and servo with white sweet sauce. A little soaked sago may be mixed with the fruit and cooked with it, as it helps to bind the contents togelhcr. Farinaceous puddings arc made with starchy products, such as rice, sn^o tai)ioca macaroni, semolina, hominy, etc. They arc apt to prove constipating, and should not be used by those having any tendency to constipation, p Ics, varW ve ns or varicocele To correct lliis ten.lency, mix sultana.s or currants with them or eat them with stewed, fresh, or dried fruits. ' . ^^^^ PUDDING—Put washed rice into a jMc-dish. cover with cold water nlaoo in the oven, and let ,t cook until the rice is nearly soft throughor 1 eat uJ oS egg with nnlk, mix with this a little cinnamon or other flavouring, aS Zr it over the ncc. Add sugar to taste, and bake until set. When the egg is left out38 Dr. Nichols' Food of Health. BRILL'S SEA SALT. the rice may be mixed first of all with milk and water, sugar and flavouring. When sultanas are used, these should be put to soak along with the rice. Lemon peel, bay leaves, almond flavouring, or vanilla may be used to give variety to the taste of this pudding. To make it a more perfect food when the rice is cooked, some sweet wheatmeal batter may be poured over it, and the whole baked until •done. SAGO, TAPIOCA, SEMOLINA, AND HOMINY PUDDINGS are made like rice pudding. They should be eaten with stewed prunes. MACARONI PUDDING.—Boil macaroni in water until soft, strain off the water, put the macaroni in a pie-dish, then add the egg, milk, sugar, and flavouring, all beaten up together. Bake until brown at the top. VEGETABIAN CHRISTMAS PUDDING.—Mix together one pound of finely- ground wheatmeal flour, or Food of Health, two pounds of stoned raisins, one pound of sultanas, half a pound of sugar, quarter of a pound of mixed peel, quarter of a pound of sweet almonds, a dozen bitter ones, a pound of shelled Brazil nuts, a pound of wholemeal bread crumbs, half a pound of scraped carrots, two ounces of soaked sago, four eggs, and a teaspoonf ul of mixed spice. Moisten with milk until it is of the consistence of very thick porridge, and mix well. Grease some pudding- basins with olive oil or butter, fill with mixture, cover with a wholemeal crust, boil six hours, and then it is ready. Eat sparingly of it in the middle of the day, but not at all in the evening, for if eaten at night any but the lightest diet may •cause nightmare or stomach troubles. BLANCMANGES.—These cold dishes are best fitted for summer use. Being made from starchy compounds, they are apt to prove constipating, unless made with wholemeal preparations, and should always be eaten with stewed fruit. Corn- flour, arrowroot. Food of Health, or rice flour are the substances used. Mix milk and water in equal parts, and bring to the boil in a saucepan, then stir in any of the flours named above, cook a short time until it thickens, pour into a cold mould, and let it get cold. Then turn out on a dish and serve with stewed fruit. SEMOLINA AND SULTANA BLANCMANGE.—Make this like ordinary blanc- mange, but with semolina flour, and stir in a few sultanas while cooking. Eat when cool. WHEATMEAL PANCAKES.—These dishes are rich with fat, and must therefore be used sparingly. Make a batter of wholemeal flour, or Food of Health, eggs, and milk, and add a. little sugar. Make your frying-pan hot, put into it a little olive oil or butter. When this is hot, pour in a small cupful of the batter, and let it spread all over the bottom of the frying-pan. Cook until brown on the under side, and mind it does not stick to the pan, then turn and cook on the other side. Serve hot, eat with a little sugar and lemon juice. Or make a sauce by boiling some slightly acid preserve in a little warm water, strain through a sieve, and serve it in a sauce boat. SWEET OMELETS are made like pancakes, but before removing from the frying- pan some jam, preserve, or marmalade is spread over the pancake, which is then rolled up as if to make a roly-poly pudding. Eat whilst warm. Pancakes and omelets should not be eaten by the bilious or those troubled with skin diseases. FRUIT PIES.—These arc made from fresh ripe fruit of any kind, or even of such ctricd fruit as prunes, etc. Most fi-uits are first stewed, then a small quantity of sugar added, covered with a wholemeal crust and baked. A very nice crust is made with wholemeal flour, or Food of Health, and oil in this way ; to one pound of wholemeal flour allow a small teacupful of olive oil, mix the oil and flour together in a basin, rubbing the oil in as butter is done, add just enough warm water to make the flour into a dough, roll out thin, and cover the fruit, etc., with this. ^aJp""^ '^'oif'cd by those with a tendency to skin eruptions or biliousness. STEWED FRUIT AND BAKED CUSTARD.—Stew fresh or dried fruits, put them aiiiic bottom of a pic-disli, soak half a small teacupful of tapioca over night, and pour this over the fruit,, and mix. Then beat up one egg, mix it with a pint of hrin;, f *u" V P,"*- " tablcspoonful of cornflour, or wheatmeal, or Food of Health, tiiniLo I , .^'ow fire, and pour this custard over the mixture of fruit and tapioca, bake in the oven until brown on the top. xnuUnn^^^J.f^^^^—V'''^ ^''•'i stewed fruit, or with any kind of firm Willi cKgs they must be used sparingly by the bilious,Dr. Nichols' Soap. 39 costive, or those inclined to skin eruptions, Beat up three eggs, add to one pint of milk, put the whole into a double saucepan, and place on the fire, or into a im and put this into a saucepan of boiling water, which keep on the fire, stir constantly until nearly boiling, then remove, and keep stirring until nearly cool: nut in srlassp^ and it is ready for table. A little sugar and any flavouring can be added to taste ^ APPLE CHARLOTTE-Grease a pie-dish with olive oil or butter, put a layer of wholemeal bread crumbs half an inch thick at the bottom of the disb over thi- put stewed apples or stewed apple rings, add bread crumbs and apple in alternate layers until the dish is full, finishing with bread crumbs. A few finely-chopped almonds with each layer of apples is a decided improvement. Put bits of butter on the top, and bake. ui^uv^^ PLUM CAp.-Mix wholemeal flour, or Food of Health, into a stifiE paste with milk and water, pick and wash sultanas, wash some almonds, and then chop then> .^.T" f ^ ^ll^ '^'"'^^' P''* ^''^""^ °^ ^ake-tin and bake. Made thus, f? ? f ,^ ^ ^^'i is most wholesome. Cliildrea can take this to school, or labourers to work. It is best without sugar or butter APPLE AND TAPIOCA PIE.-Line the edges of a pie-dish with paste then nut m a layer of peeled, cored and sliced apples, with a little suglr anK lew cTo?e^ 1wLh('' °f *^P^°f,'.^^l^i°l^ 1^-,^ been steeped all night (drafn off Ly water not' fa Itathi SrcfovVn'" P""" ^ ^'^^ P-^ake VEGETAEIAN MINCE PIES.-3 lb. of peeled and cored apples, 1 lb raisins 1 lb. currants, J lb. of citron, i lb. of orange and lemon peel mixed Vlb b ovvn sugar, 1 lb of treacle 1 nutmeg grated, 1 teaspoonful of powd^ed cloves', 1 ?ea spoonful of powdered mace, 1 teaspoonful of ground cinnamon. Wash the cur rants stone the raisms cut the peel in slices. Mix these with the other- ingredients and app es chopped fine. This quantity sufficient for seven or eShf pies the size of a dinner plate. When baking into pies, allow one thorough^ tf Z.f% ° ^teaspoonful of lemon juice and one of essence of lemon and heat the whole for a few minutes over the fire. Butter a plate, cover ov^r with paste, lay on the mince meat, cover in with paste, and bake in a brisk ove^ till lightly browned. The spices may be omitted or varied according to taste APPLE SAirCE.-Peel, core and slice thin half-dozen moderarte-sized apples put into a saucepan with very little water, and stew to a pulp. Sweeten to taste' Good boiling apples should be used. ^ ^ "weeien to taste. FEUIT^To STEW.-Fruit should be cooked gently, in a jar in the oven or ia a bell-metal stew-pan, or an enamel ed saucepan. Fot fruits without much i^ce (such as apples and green gooseberries) use veiy little water, say 4 pint to a Quart of fruit. Put in the sugar when It is half done. They take'from halfan hour Ta an hour and a half, according to kind. For sour fruits i lb. sugar to a Quart Apples require a few cloves, or a little lemon peel also ^ FEITITS, DEIED.-To STEW.-Dried apples, prunes, figs, dates, raisins eto should be put to soak in water to cover them over night, then stewed nentlv for some hours. Sweet and sour may be stewed together yt-'t^y ror .i,^^^^^- AND FIGS.-Four figs to six medium-sized sticks of rhubarb Cnf the rhubarb into pieces about two inches long, without peeling, and^the fi^s into small pieces, adding sugar and water according to taste. Stew in a rShpf <.i^ oven, so as to retain the shape of the rhubarb. Rhubarb's good stewed vvUh either lemons, oranges, raisms, or ginger. ^ oi-t-vvtu wicn eitlier >, ^2^11 ^^^^•"'^It^ ^ *° 1 of fruit-currant, raspberry straw berry, blackbciry mulberry, or elderberry. Pick the fruit and put it 7n'a der^ ^* preserving sugar absorb as much cold water as it wil and put It into the pan with the fruit. Let it stand 12 hours flipn r„.f ,-f / ' P let it simm^er gently for three quarters oTL hrr sk mmiCthe ton t'If ''"'^ rises; strain through a sieve, ami bottle it up when coTenfuih ThK 1°""' good for months, and is invaluable in winter for mush and ?L l! ''^''P- fruit can be eaten up with bread after it k strained ^" HyOEli " '^'^ JNDIAN MEAL mixed with well-beaten eggs makes good hot cakes for break- cup!TS'-oT:''£\2'1oof Wei^^^^ "'."^''^ three bale in cups, half fiLti/atu^l ^'T'sZZ'SZ^l;SfLT' ^'""^"^^^ 'Dr. Nichols' Food of Health. BRILL'S SEA SALT. GINGEEBREAD.—"Wlieatmeal or flour 3 lb. ; butter 6 o?,.; brown sugar { lb. ; ■Ti'ound ginger 2 oz. ; treacle lb. ; baking powder \ oz. Rub the baking powder Tiito the flour; add the sugar (rolled) and ginger ; mix all into a paste with the treacle and butter (warm) ; and bake on warm buttered tins. SWEET SAUCE.—For Puddings or Tartu.—A pint of milk; when almost boil- ino-, stir in 1 oz. cornflour dissolved in a little cold milk. Keep stirring, and boil tea minutes ; then add two or three lumps of sugar. This is the best substitute for cream with cooked fruit. If to be used with dried fruit pudding, two bay- leaves boiled in the milk is an improvement, or some essence, but it is diflacult to ■get good essences. PUDDING SAUCE.—A dessert-spoonful of arrowroot or potato-flour ; raspberry- syi-up or lemon-flavour ; sugar, spice, and ^ pint water. Moisten the arrowroot in a little cold water ; pour on the rest of the water, boiling ; stir till clear ; add the -sugar and syrup, or flavour by rubbing a lump of sugar on the rind of a lemon. The juice also will improve it. DESSERT.—This is only mentioned to be condemned, as it leads to over-eating. Make a meal of fruit, or nuts, or both with bread, but do not have a good meal of something else and then eat these afterwai-ds. If you do, sooner or later you will suffer for it. BEVERAGES. "WHAT SHALL WE DRINK?" Chemically and physiologically—that is, naturally—the only real drink is water. Pure water alone is the basis of the salivary, gastric, and pancreatic secretions -which dissolve all food, and aid its conversioQ into blood, and thence into all the tissues of the body. This needful water is found in milk, the juices of fruits, and more or less m all vegetables used for food, some of which contain 90 per cent, of pure water filtered by the spongioles which absorb it from the earth. What we add to water is food —sugar, milk, fruit juices, or more or less deleterious substances, cocoa, tea, coffee, and alcohol. Alcohol is a poison that demoralises and destroys great numbers : tea and coffee excite the nerves, and are often causes of disease. ITiose who live upon a bland vegetable diet, taking very little salt, and eating rfreely of fruits, may have no need of more water than they contain. The proper indication that more is needed is thirst, and thirst is best allayed and the want of •the system supplied by j>ure soft ivater—the only natural dnnk and the best •of medicines. j. When the water is hard or impure, the best resource is filtered ram water, or distilled water. LEMON WATER is made by squeezing the juice of half a lemon into a tumbler •of warm or cold water ; to this is added just enough sugar to take off the tartness. ^Some peel the lemon first, then cut in slices, pour boiling water over the slices, .-L,'ratc in a little of the peel, and add sugar to taste. COCOA This is best made by putting half a teaspoonful of any good coco^ •such as Cadbury's, into a breakfast cup ; boiling water is then poured over this and stirred ; one tablespoonful of milk must be added to each cup, and one teaspoonful •of sugar where sugar is used, or one or two teaspoonfuls of condensed milk and no •extra sugar. BRAN TEA.-Mix an ounce of bran with a pint of water ; boil for half an 'iour, -^ttrain, and drink cool. A little orange or lemon juice is a pleasant adrtition. When this is used ns a drink at breakfast or tea, a little milk and sugar may ue •added to it. CHOCOLATE.-Allow one bar of chocolate for each cup of fluid. Break tlic chocolate in bits, p„t, into a saucepan, add a little Iwiling water, put on the nrc, and stir until tlm. chocolate is dissolved, then add rest of fluid, and poi\ ^ o\ .i minutcH. I'our the chocolate into cups, ana add about one tiibl&spoonful ot irc.su milk to each cup, but no extra sugar. The milk may be added to the cliocoJote whilst boiling if desired.