THE IMPERIAL JOURNAL OF 66 seen in the last figure, just beyond the little tassel; it is of the size and shape of an almond, secreting mucus to moisten the throat from many little pits on its surface. It is this which inflames, when one is said to have a sore throat. Sometimes it enlarges so much as to interfere with breathing; and then it requires to be removed. One or other of the ducts which open below the tongue is subject to become stopped up, and the saliva distends it into a soft swelling, which impedes the motions of the tongue in the actions of speech and mastication, and requires to be punctured. Sometimes the saline constituents of the saliva concrete into a stone, which requires to be cut out. But the most annoying thing connected with the salivary duct is, when one of those running in the cheek is divided, as by a sabre cut; it is then scarcely to be got to heal, and the saliva is constantly running over the cheek. The quantity which is lost in this way, in such a case, in the course of a day, is surprisingly great. The teeth are the hardest parts of the whole body. In the adult they are thirty-two in number, eight upon each side of each jaw. They are of four different kinds. In front there are, on each side, two incisors or cutting teeth, whose edges are like that of a chisel; next there is one eye-tooth, which is pointed; thirdly, there are two small grinders; and lastly, there are three large grinders. The teeth in the two jaws do not exactly meet; the cutting teeth of the upper jaw overlapping those of the under, while the grinders just face one another. We sometimes, however, see people whose under teeth project beyond their upper, giving a peculiar appearance of length to the lower part of the face. In the figure a grinding tooth is represented, sawn through perpendicularly. We describe three portions of the tooth, the crown being that part which appears above the gum, the body the thick part, and the fangs, or roots, penetrating down into the socket. A cavity is seen in the body of the tooth, occupied by a pulpy substance, containing some bloodvessels and nerves; and a small canal is seen leading from the cavity into each fang, and opening by a minute hole, through which the bloodvessels and nerves enter. The bony part of the tooth which projects above the jaw, and is destined to meet its fellow, and to come in contact with the fluids in the mouth, is protected by the enamel, which is the hardest substance in the body. It is thought not to be an organized substance at all, as neither blood nor sensibility has been detected in it; so that it seems to be merely a protection, to prevent the remainder of the tooth from being worn. When broken off, it is never replaced, and the tooth of necessity passes into decay. The structure of the bony part of the tooth is similar to that of bone elsewhere, oidy it is much harder. Hence, by re- ferring to the chemical structure of bone, (Chapter IV.,) it will be understood how the teeth are pained when anything sour is taken into the mouth ; why the patient who is to use acid drops is always directed to suck them through a quill, that they may not come in contact with the teeth; and how the teeth blacken, and are actually dissolved away, in persons who are subject to acidity of the stomach. When a hole has formed in a tooth, no pain is felt until the cavity be reached and the nerve exposed, and then, as almost every one knows by experience, the pain is most excruciating. Sometimes it is relieved by some powerful stimulant dropped into the tooth, as the essential oil of cloves,—sometimes by the re- cently discovered substance called creosote, which has the property of deadening the nerve, —and sometimes the tortured victim is glad to appease the tormentor by actually destroy- ing the nerve, by the introduction of a hot wire. If the cavity be not large, it ought to be stopped, an operation which generally succeeds in preserving the tooth for a long time, by excluding the air and all other agents which could act upon it. This stopping ought to be done with gold leaf, and by a respectable dentist; and no one should trust his teeth to the hands of the advertising charlatans, whose object, to secure constant employment to themselves, is not to pre- serve, but to destroy. If stopping the tooth be not success- ful in preventing the recurrence of toothache, the offending member must be removed ; and this last resource should never be deferred so long that the stump requires to be dug out of the jaw; because then, what is a brief though painful operation, is converted into one which is tedious, and often insufferable. The teeth at first lie deep within the jaw-bones, and are covered at birth by the thick gum. Their rudiments at birth are very small. The crown or upper part of the tooth is formed first, then the body, then the enamel is de- posited on the crown, and lastly, the fangs grow as the tooth becomes protruded. When the jaw of a new-born child is dissected, a pulp is found for each tooth, like a little stool, into which bloodvessels are seen running, on the top of which the bone is deposited ; and after the tooth has attained its shape, the pulpy stool shrinks away al- most to nothing, except the small quantity of cel- lular tissue which conveys the vessels and nerves into the central cavity. The whole tooth is enclosed witliir a delicate membrane, which becomes ruptured when the toot! bursts forth. The gum of an infant has a sharp line running along it, which serves it to catch anything that is put into its mouth ; and this line becomes broader and flattened, and finally disappears, previous to the eruption of the teeth. The order of eruption is generally the following:—First, the two central incisors of the lower jaw appear, then the correspond- ing ones above ; next, the lateral ones below, then the cor- responding ones above. After this, the order is not regularly backwards, for the foremost of the two grinders now appear below, then those above, then the eyeteeth below, then the corresponding ones above, and lastly', the second grinders come through about the end of the second, or beginning of the third year. When they do not follow this order, denti- tion is generally attended with more than usual irritation. The period when the teeth appear varies very much. The author knows one lady who was born with teeth, and has seen a child born with a couple, and every one knows what Rich- ard III. says of himself on this subject. It is rather early for them to appear at the age of four months ; more com- monly seven have passed before any signs of uneasiness are manifested, and sometimes even twelve or thirteen. A good deal of constitutional disturbance generally attends teething: the mouth is hot, the gums itchy, and the infant rubs them with anything it can get into its hands. For this purpose nothing is so good as the common ivory ring; all manner of corals and bells should be discarded, as they are apt to injure the mouth, or even to be thrust into the eyes. The bowels are apt to become deranged, and require constant attention. But nothing does the infant so much good as scarifying its gums. It is quite a mistake to suppose that this trifling operation gives pain ; on the contrary, it is a source of in- stantaneous relief, and should be resorted to as often as the child manifests any signs of uneasiness. When this is ne- glected, teething is apt to bring on bowel-complaints, convul- sions, and even that most intractable of diseases, water in the head. From the hardness of the teeth, they are not capable of growing, so as to fill up the increased size of the jaws in after years. Hence we see a growing child come to have spaces left between its teeth, as they are removed from one another by the elongation of the jaw. About the end of the seventh, or beginning of the eighth year, a third grinder on each side of each jaw makes its appearance, which is the first permanent tooth, and never changes. When this one is ris- ing above the gums, the central incisors of the under jaw are becoming loose. If a jaw-bone be dissected at this period, and its outer part be filed away, a very' beautiful preparation is obtained. The first teeth are seen in their places, and the second set are seen deep in the jaw, below, and rather be- hind them, ready to rise up and supplant them. (The figure represents the right half of the lower jaw, containing the five milk teeth, and filed away so as to display the bags in which the second set are contained.) It is, however, quite