320 THE IMPERIAL JOURNAL OF eminences seen on the surface, and which in the hands and feet are arranged in rows; they are nervous and vascular, and seem analogous to those much larger, visible on the tongue. On the outer surface of the dermis lies a network of exceedingly fine lymphatic vessels, discovered by the cele- brated Mascagin. The presence of these vessels explains the absorption into the blood of fluids or solids, rubbed through the epidermic parts. Beneath this important part of the human integuments, is the layer called the subcutaneous cellular and adipose tissue ; in young persons, and especially in women, the fat forms a complete layer under the skin, sometimes of very consider- able thickness, giving to their forms that agreeable appear- ance, indicative of youth and health; its usual absence, or at least partial deficiency, allows in man the form of the skele- ton, muscles, and tendons, to be more especially observed. In some animals, called pachydermatous or thick-skinned, it also forms a remarkable subcutaneous layer, as in the pig, hippopotamus, and probably the tapir. In whales, the layer of fat forming the blubber is not confined to the subcutaneous cellular tissue, but extends deeply into the tissue of the skin itself. Various uses have been assigned for its abundance in whales, but none of them are at all satisfactory. APPENDAGES OP THE SKIN. Before making a few concluding remarks on the physio- logy of touch, I shall briefly describe the appendages of the human skin : these are—1. the sebaceous follicles; 2. the nails; 3. the hair. The sebaceous follicles.—These consist of small pouches or bags, about the size of a millet-seed, lodged in the substance of the dermis, opening externally by very small orifices, visible, however, in some persons to the naked eye. From these orifices an unctuous matter is constantly poured out upon the surface of the skin, assisting in preserving its flexi- bility ; on the sides of the nose and face, generally, the seba- ceous matter often collects into little hardened masses, discol- oured on the surface. These may be squeezed from the bag or cavity by pressure, and are then mistaken for worms. Micro- scopic worms are no doubt also found in various follicles, but they are totally unlike the sebaceous secretions. The follicles open in two ways ; either on parts of the sur- face where there are no hairs, or into the hair follicles, as may be understood from the following figure. Fig. 3. Section of skin from head, magnified 14 times. *i, Sebacpous follicles; c, Ilair follicles ; g, Sudoriferous glands; /, Subcu- taneous cellular and adipose tissue; e, The dermis; a, The epidermic parts; b, The projecting parts of the hair. It is generally admitted that the more common description of wen, frequently found on the scalp, is formed merely by an accumulation of the albuminous and fatty matters collected in one or more of these follicles. Of the nails ancl hair.—In man these are but little developed, compared with almost any other animal of the same great class. In most hot-blooded quadrupeds, the system of the Representing a vertical section of the extremity of one of the fingers. b a d, The dermis; cc, Duplicatureof skin; b, Body of the nail; a, Epidermis. nails and hair covers nearly the whole surface of the body; and even in the elephant and hippopotamus, where the hairs are scanty, their place is amply supplied by the thickness of the epidermic parts. So also in whales. We shall first speak of the nails. The human nails, more especially those of the fingers, are hard, flexible, elastic, and translucent. When well-formed they have a specific elongated character, but in many persons they are ill-formed, and approach more or less to the form of the claw, that is, become pointed. For the sake of description, the nail is divided by anatomists into root, bodg, and free portion. The root is covered on both surfaces, and is only seen on dissection ; the body is covered only on one surface; the free portion is free on both sides. This free por- Fig. 4. tion has a tendency, when left to grow to its full ex- tent, to become incurvated, and in consumptive per- sons remarkably so, caused probably by the atrophy of the subjacent soft parts. The root is about a fourth the length of the body of the nail, and is its thinnest part ; it is re- ceived into a fold or duplicature of the skin, c c, to which it is attached by both surfaces; but these attachments are but slight, compared with that by which the body of the nail is fixed to the sensitive parts beneath it. It is this connection chiefly which renders the tearing of the nails forcibly from their roots so very painful an operation ; an operation, however, which is sometimes required. The nail is separated from the bone by a very thick por- tion of the dermis or true skin, exquisitely sensible, and very vascular; a fine part of the nail, at the part nearest to the skin, is called the lunula; it is somewhat crescent-shaped, and is supposed to show a slight discoloration even in those mestizzoes, whose blood might otherwise be supposed to be pure. Authors are not agreed as to the ultimate connection of the epidermis with the nail. They are, however, in their nature strictly analogous, also in their chemical composition. Nails then are not vascular parts, but are the products of secretion, and are also, as it were, excretions ; a diseased nail is produced merely by a disease in the part producing it. They have been compared to the teeth, and are no doubt a substance of precisely the same horny nature, as the nail takes the place of the teeth in the whale ; but still the analogy is remote. The young whale before birth has teeth in both jaws, although they never become properly developed ; that is, in whalebone wbales. Whalebone then is merely a substi- tute for, but not identical with the teeth in any sense what- ever ; and they have not at all the same chemical composition. The nails grow continually in length, as may be proved by a very simple experiment. In civilized life they require atten- tion and even care; in savage life, all such matters are adjusted by nature. ILLUSTRATIONS OF MECHANICAL DRAWING. CHAPTER VI. In the last article, a general explanation was given of the nature of geometrical projections of machinery, of the principles upon which they are, to a certain extent, derivable one from another, and of their peculiar adaptations to the purposes of mechanical represen- tation. Our business will now be, to render familiar to the student the methods of delineating mechanical objects in particular, to present detailed accounts of the processes of geometrical projection, and so to facilitate his progress in the art, as to enable him to lay correctly down upon paper any combination of mechanical ideas which he may wish to preserve. The first thing to be attended to, in contemplating the execution