ART, SCIENCE, MECHANICS, AND ENGINEERING. as the currents circulating round each particle contained in the magnet, n s, revolve in planes at right angles to the axis of the magnet, their action must be ti^msverse to that axis, and must induce a straight conducting wire, P m, also into a transverse position in relation to/the axis, and to the magnet itself, in which position tlie current traversing the wire is parallel to the direction of the currents in the adjoin- mg part of the magnet. This /explanation of transversal action is grounded chiefly upon/ the assumption which Am- pfire subsequently proved by e/periment, that every electric current tends to induce currents in the same direction in other bodies. / 92. 1 his theory, however/ although extremely ingenious, and affording satisfactory ^explanations of the greater num- bei of the phenomena, has, unfortunately, not succeeded in removing the difficulties/ which are created by the extraor- dinary circumstances attending the induction of magnetism by electrical currents /traversing conducting bodies, which have been particularly/referred to in paragraph 85, and which were first noticed hi Savary. No hypothesis has as yet been promulgated, which satisfactorily explains the strange variations alluded to. 93. This chapte^ concludes that part of the science to w-hich the term j “ electro-magnetism” strictly applies, al- though it has Veen customary to include, under the same head, the subject of electro-dynamics, or the mutual actions of electric curtents moving in different directions. It is, however, our/bpinion, that this latter subject would be best treated under a distinct head, and as a distinct branch of electrical science. It is proposed, therefore, to devote a few chapters to/ the subjects of electro-dynamics, and magnetic and thermo-electricity, including a description of those vol- taic_ and/electro-magnetic instruments which appear most useful in modern research, and are most likely to advance luture discovery. 415 calleTa IZ't the- lab>'rillth- « is an opening called a fenestra, leading into the cavity of the1 vesti- ng- l. bule; b, the semicircular canals; c, the cochlea. In order to see the contents of these cavities, the external osseous wall must be filed off, and the same structures will then assume the appearance represented in the annexed figure. Into Fig. 2. ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY. CHAPTER XXIV. OF THE ORGAN OF HEARING IN MAN—ITS ANATOMY, PHYSIOLOGY, AND PATHOLOGY. No one unacquainted with the mysterious structures revealed to us by anatomy, would ever have imagined or conjectured the singular form, the high complexity, the inexplicable ar- rangement ofthe parts composing the organ of hearing in man. 1 he visible part, usually called the ear, performs but a very small share indeed in the performance ofthe functions of hear- ing, though of great beauty when well formed, and highly ornamental to the human head; but the functions or uses, even of the external ear, have not been made out; and much iess do we comprehend the uses of the deeper parts, and ofthe middle ear, as it is called ; of the labyrinth or internal ear; and of the appendages connected with the organ gene- rally But, before speaking of the presumed uses of these singular structures, let us place before the reader as brief an outline as may be of the anatomy ofthe organ of hearino-. Fig. 1 (see Plate), represents the human ear, in which°a ts the cartilage, or external ear; b, the auditory tube ; c, the tympanum or drum of the ear; d, the cavity of the tympanum, kePl filled with air by means of the eustachean tube, e, which •omes from the back of the mouth. It is owing to slio-ht ongestion of this, that in a common cold we experience a ittle deafness. At / is seen a chain of four little bones ; at ' a cavity called the vestibule; at h three canals called the enucircular canals; and at i, the cochlea. The vestibule, the cochlea, and semicircular canals consti- ute the labyrinth or internal ear, which is the true organ of ■earing. The subjoined figure will give the reader some idea the osseous shell shutting in the membranous and nervous the labyrinth passes the auditory nerve, by means of which no doubt, the vibrations of the external air are conveyed in a mysterious manner to the brain, giving us the sensation and perception of sound. But on the interior of this deep or internal ear, there is an apparatus of structures called the middle ear. This is also composed of three parts—namely, the tympanum, which is a cavity; the eustachean tube, which communicates with the throat; and the mastoid cells. In the cavity of the tympanum we find a membrane which also invests the other two divi- sions mentioned ; and besides this membrane, there are four bones of the most singular construction, and named from their very forms, the hammer, the anvil, the orb-shaped bone and the stirrup, m, the hammer; a, the anvil; o, the orbicular bone; s, Fig. 3. the stirrup. These bones form a sort O -a of chain, connecting the drum of the /"S} 0 A ear, which is situated exterior to them, ^ and the vestibule, the base of the stir- m a s rup bone being placed within the opening called the fenestra ovalis, an opening which, we have already said, leads directly into the vestibule. The drum of the ear, on the other hand, against which the hammer bone rests, is a circular membrane of a peculiar structure, which may be made more or less tense by means of muscles acting on the chain of bones. On the outer side of the drum of the ear is the membran- ous and cartilaginous tube which, extending outwards, termi- nates in the external or figured part of the ear, visible on the side of the head. If water or any liquid be injected into the external opening of the ear, it does not penetrate further than the drum of the ear, so long as that membrane remains healthy and entire. The drum may, however, be diseased and ulcerated; and it has been punctured by the surgeon for a peculiar form of deafness, and then air or tobacco smoke may be forced from the throat and made to appear at the external ear; but not otherwise. A more minute description of the organ would not much avail the reader in_ understanding the mere mechanism, nor would it enable him the better to comprehend the physiology of the organ. Here, as in many other organs of the body, we should never have discovered by mere anatomy alone the uses of the structures; of this curious fact, the brain and ear form striking examples. By hearing, is meant, physiologically speaking, the dis- tinguishing-, appreciating, and perceiving the undulations or vibrations excited in matter, and communicated by means of