THE IMPERIAL JOURNAL OF UG As to their nature and origin, they have been divided into the igneous and aqueous; the igneous being classed into the plutonic and volcanic, and the aqueous into the metamorphic or altered, and the fossiliferous. Ao-ain, as to their comparative age, into the primary, the transition, the secondary, the tertiary, and post-tertiary or re- cent. All these modes of classification will appear necessary when we take into consideration the causes for adopting them. The reasons for the first mode of classification must be abundantly evident from the observations made in the last chapter, with re- spect to the great predominancy of quartz or silica, clay, and lime, as the constituents of mineral bodies, and consequently of rocks. , Every one has heard of the nature of those masses of molten matter which issue from the craters of volcanoes, overflowing large tracts of the surrounding countries, and forming beds some- times of very considerable thickness,—in short, that many dis- tricts are wholly, or almost wholly, composed of matter so formed. Such lavas generally arrange themselves round the volcano, and give it a conical form. The substances thus produced are deno- minated volcanic rocks. There are also rocks which yield every evidence of their having been once in a fused state, partaking of many of the characters of lava, and other volcanic rocks; but these occur in countries where there is no volcanic crater, and they frequently cover the regular stratified rocks to a great ex- tent. These are considered to have issued from the inferior parts of the earth through openings, or fissures, and to have accumulated in immense masses at the bottom of the ocean, from which they have been subsequently upheaved. These are the whinstones, or trap rocks, of Scotland, England, Ireland, Ac. They generally occur in irregular hilly ridges, and not in conical hills or mountains like those which have issued from the volcanic crater. This class of rocks is also denominated vol canic. We find also another class of rocks, but of similar com position, occurring in the form of walls or dykes in the stratified rocks, to which we ascribe a similar origin, and also denominate The plutonic rocks, consisting of granite, sienitc, and some porphyries, are those which are of a crystalline structure like the volcanic rocks, though not so much so, but they are distinct from them inasmuch as though “ they pierce through other strata, they Eever, or rarely, have been Ton ml to rest upon them as if they had overflowed.” ” As it is admitted,” says Mr Lyell, “ that nothing strictly analogous to these crystalline production can now be seen in the progress of formation on the earth s sur- face, it will naturally be asked, on what data we can find a place for them in a system of classification founded on the origin of rocks First, then, in regard to ttie plutonic class : a passage has been traced from various kinds of granite into different varie- ties of rocks, decidedly volcanic ; so that if the latter are of igneous origin, it is scarcely possible to refuse to admit that the granites are so likewise. Secondly,-large masses of granite are found to send forth dykes and veins into the contiguous strata, very much in the same way as lava and volcanic matter pene- trate aqueous deposits; both the massive granite and the \ems causing changes analogous to thosewluch lava and vo'camc masses are known to produce ; but the plutonic rocks differ f.om the vol- canic, not only by their more crystalline texture, but also by the absence of tuffs and breccias, which are the products of eruptions, at the earth’s surface : they also differ by the absence of poies or cellular cavities, which the entangled-gases give rise to in or- dinary lava. From these and other peculiarities, it has been in- ferred that the granites have been formed at great depths in the earth, and have cooled and crystallized slowly under the influence of enormous pressure where the contamedfcases could not expand. The volcanic rocks, on the contrary, have-also risen up from be- low, have cooled from a melted state more Vapid, upon or near the surface. From these hypotheses of the groat depth at whmh the granites originated, hi been derived the term plutonic rock, which they have received to distinguish them from the volcanic. The propriety of the terms aqueous and igneous must now appear sufficiently explicit to the reader, when applied in th. one case, to those rocks which, like lava, pave been o state effusion, and in the other, to those which have originated from sedimentary deposition at the bottom of water The meta- morphic rocks are those stratified deposits which have been altered from their original eartny condition into a crj stallme or semi-crystalline texture by heat, such as gneiss, mica slate, clay slate, hornblende slate, *tc. These rocks are also termed non-fossiliferous, because they have never been found to contain any trace of animal or vegetable remains; and also primary from the same cause,—it being concluded by some geologists that they were deposited prior to the creation of organic life upon the "lobe. They have also beeC termed the crystalline strata, from their being more of a crystallized structure than the newer for- mations. The term primary' has been objected to by Mr Lyell as impro- per ; because he contends that even gneiss and mica slate may have been produced from the waste of previously existing strata, of which the monuments remain in the enormous accumulations of these rocks. And all remaining traces, obliterated by con- version into granite, he considers gneiss a passage from mica slate into granite, and mica slate now in the progress of becom- :ng gneiss, and ultimately granite, may have originally differed very little from other sedimentary deposits. Mr Lyell has used much ingenuity', and no small labour, in endeavouring to build up this his favourite theory. lie has certainly adduced facts to show that rocks of all ages, when subjected to igneous action, undergo a certain degree of metamorphism ; but the evidcnco adduced from these has never, we confess, been able to show us that gneiss has not resulted from the debris of granites, and that mica slate has not been the product of decomposed gneiss, instead of vice versa, as his theory would lead us to suppose. In the mean time we consider the term primary a very good term for the non-fossiliferous strata, and use it as such only. Transition is certainly a very objectionable term, as the strata of every period indicate what the term is meant to express—an alteration of condition. Yet no better has been yet suggested to designate the period between that of the introduction of marine animal life, to that of the creation of land animals, of which we have the first trace in the new'est of the secondary de- posits, namely, the new red sandstone : we therefore coincide with Dr Buckland in this use of the term. The term secondary com- prehends all those rocks which are newer than the coal series, and older than the tertiary—thd tertiary all those rocks which contain recent species of molluVa, and animals allied to the existing tribes, but which were deposited prior to the creation of the human species. ] We shall now present the reader with a sy stematic arrange- ment of British strata. TABLE OF BRITISH DEPOSITS. Recent deposits and accumulations. Vegetable Soils—peat, mud, clay, sand,land gravel, deposited during thi historic era, by rivers, lakes, floods, &« KS. STRATIFIED ROCI Tertiary strata. l. \ f Upper Crag—Marine shells, pebbles, sand, &c. Crag, J Lower or Coralline Crag—Marine shells and corals in 167 yards. j sand or coarse limestone. \ Fresh Water ( Upper Fresh Water Beds-Marly limestone and clay. Marls J Estuary Beds—Marine and es%ary clays. 33 yard’s 1 Lower Fresh Water Beds—Marly limestone and clay. London Clay, f London Clay-Clay with shellA&c. 200 to COO yards.j Plastic Clay-Variegated sand* clays, lignite. Secondary strata—Cretaceous \eries. Chalk Foma- ( Upper Chalk—Soft white chalk i tion 4 Lower Chalk—Hard white chalk 200 to 330 vards. I Chalk Marl—Soft clayey chalk /Upper Green Sand—Green sand J Gault—Blue marl or clay. V Lower Green Sand-Irony hrow l limestone in some places. ■ith layers. (with few or no flints. Green Sand, 160 yards. Oolitic scries. vrqor green sands A with Wealden For- mation, 300 yards. Upper Oolite, 130 yards. Weald Clay—Clays with calcareous or limestone beds occasionally interposed. ** Hasting Sands—Sands, clays, and calcareous grits. Purbeck Beds—Clay or marls, and b<5$is of limestones o* various kinds. 1 ( Portland Oolite—Limestone and sand* # 1 Kimmeridge Clay—Blue clay with septan a. f Upper Calcareous Grit—Calcareous sandstone. 4 Coral Kag—Oolitic coralline limestone, f Middle Oolite, J Lower Calcareous Grit—Calcareous sandstone. 150 yards. J Oxford Clay—Blue clay with septaria. V KiUoway Bock—Calcareous sandstone.