190 THE IMPERIAL JOURNAL OF glands communicating with the mouth, so that it has been called the abdominal salivary gland. It is in shape like a dog’s tongue, and lies across the spine, below the stomach, and nearly surrounded by the first part of the small intestine, into which its duct perforates, close to, or along with, the entry of the one from the liver. The liver is the largest gland in the body, weighing in general, from four to five pounds. It lies in the right side, close under the diaphragm, and over the stomach. It is con- nected by folds of the peritonaeum, or lining membrane of the belly, to the neighbouring parts, these folds being called its ligaments. It is of a reddish colour, and an oval shape, its greater end be- ing to the right, and its smaller one to the left ; its convex surface di- rected upward to the concavity of the diaphragm, and its concave surface downward to the stomach. If ex- amined on the surface, or by cutting a slice out of it, it appears all mottled, consisting of an infinity of little grains, each of which may be considered as a perfect gland. Each grain receives a twig from a great vein, which brings to the liver the blood which has been circulating through the rest of the belly, and each gives off a twig to the biliary ducts. The secretion in the liver differs from that in other glands, in this, that it is not from arterial, but from venous blood. The reason of this seems to be, that as bile consists in a great measure of carbon, more of the material is furnished by the venous blood. In consequence of this, a considerable share of the duty of purifying the venous blood, by taking away its carbon, is performed by the liver, and only a part of the business is left to be completed by the lungs, as described in the chapter on respiration, p. G16 of last volume.* The liver receives a large artery for its nourishment, and branches of nerves go to it, to enable it to perform its func- tions. The gall-duct d, runs from the liver to the small in- testine, (which is slit open, in the preceding figure, to show the aperture common to it and the pancreatic duct,) allowing the bile to combine with the food, and produce a chemical * The bile contains, according to Berzelius,— Water 904 4 Biliary matter and fat, 80' Mucus of gall-bladder, 3- Extract of meat, common salt, lactate of soda, 7'4 Soda, 41 Phosphates of soda and lime, and substances insoluble in alcohol IT 1000- ' change upon it. The flow of bile is always greatest at the time when the food is passing through the bowels. At other times, it passes by a side duct into the gall bladder g, where it is reserved till it be wanted. The figure represents the under surface of the liver ; it being the right or larger lobe, and l the smaller or left. The liver is very little subject to disease in this climate. Those persons who are said to be bilious, are so in conse- quence of derangement of their stomach. In hot climates, as in India, the liver is very liable to inflammation, and sometimes matter forms in it, and bursts externally. Any irritation of the liver is apt to produce jaundice, (French jaune, yellow,) which is just the absorption of the bile into the circulation, so that its yellow tint predominates over the red colour of the blood. The liver is also occasionally sub- ject to general enlargement, and to a firm condensation, occasioning dropsy, principally in persons of intemperate habits; and cancerous growths now and then form in it, which can sometimes be felt by laying the hand upon the outside. The female breast will be described in the article on re- production. The excrementitious secretions, or excretions, are the urine and the perspiration. These are exceedingly similar to one another in their nature, and are to a certain extent vicarious ; that is, the one is able so far to supply the place of the other. Thus in winter, the perspiration is mostly suppressed, and the calls to make water are much more frequent than in summer, when the reverse is observed. Also, in those diseases of the kidneys, where no urine, or almost none is formed, the sweat becomes copious, and of a horribly offensive odour, which indicates that the salts of the blood which should pass oft'by the kidneys, are escaping by the way of the skin.* No particular apparatus can be detected, having for its object the formation of the perspiration. Over the surface of the skin are scattered an infinity of holes, through which the hairs pass ; and it would seem that the perspiratory ducts open into these, before they arrive at the surface. Perspiration is constantly going on, although we may not be aware of it, and this is called the insensible perspiration. Every one knows that he perspires, and that if the perspira- tion be checked, as by a cold draught of air, the effect is hurtful, but few know the extent of the function which is interfered with. Lavoisier and Seguin made a series of ex- periments on this subject. The experimenter enclosed him- self in a silk varnished bag, up to the mouth, and had himself and the bag weighed, at the commencement of the experiment. Then, at its termination, he was weighed again, still remain- ing in the bag. The loss of weight, of course, was lost by breathing, being the carbon and vapour which had disap- peared—see vol. i., p. 616. Lastly, coming out of the bag, he was weighed a third time, the loss this time, being the loss by perspiration. Of course the experimenter attended min- utely to the quantity of food and drink which he swallowed, I and made the requisite allowances. The result was, that the medium loss by the skin, in a day, is 32 oz. Be it remem- bered, that this is what we style the insensible perspiration. The sensible or visible sweat will come off in much greater quantity in a much shorter time. A strong man, acting as a glass-blower, will lose from 31b. to 41b. in an hour. There is no wonder that these work-people should be so given to drinking;—although we may certainly regret that their ha- bitual drink should be so strong. This perspiration, it has been said, is constantly going on. In dry weather it is not observed, because it evaporates im- mediately. In damp weather, it stands upon one’s brow in drops, because it does not get evaporated. In hot weather, it wets one all over, because much more of it is poured out, for the purpose of keeping down the heat, which would otherwise be insupportable. It is in imitation of this natural * Dr. Thomson says that it contains the lactates of soda, potash, lime, and magnesia, together with common salt, sal-ammoniac, and traces of chloride of potassium, phosphate of soda, and phosphate of lime; also animal matter, insoluble in alcohol.