ART, SCIENCE, MECHANICS, AND ENGINEERING. 489 The aorta, it has already been said, bifurcates into the arteries for the lower extremities, called the Macs from the Latin name ilium, for the haunch-bone. Each of these again divides into two branches, one of which, i i, supplies the parts within the pelvis, and terminates on the buttock, and the other ei, passes out over the brim of the pelvis in front, and runs down the thigh, under the name of the femoral artery. (Latin, femur, the thigh.) The femoral artery gives branches to the great muscles about the hip-joint, and to those on the thigh itself, and then twines round the inside of the thigh to its backpart, where it enters the ham. In the ham, which, it has already been stated, signifies anatomically the hollow be- hind the knee, it gives off five small branches to nourish the knee-joint, and then divides into the three arteries of the leg. One of these perforates between the bones of the leg to the front, where it runs down, supplying the muscles in this situation, and terminating on the back of the foot; another runs on the outer side of the back of the leg, close to the fibula; and the third, which is the principal one, runs down to behind the inner ankle, where it may be felt beating, turns into the sole, and is distributed to the parts there in a manner similar to the palmar arch in the hand, communicating be- tween the first and second toes with the artery on the back of the foot. This artery is liable to be wounded when it lies behind the ankle, as with a scythe, or the blow of an adze slipping from a piece of wood; and the author once saw it cut in a boy, by a sharp stone which another had thrown at him. When wounded, it requires to be exposed and tied like those at the wrist. The arteries consist of three coats, or layers; an internal one, which is very smooth and thin; a middle one, which is highly elastic, and on which their action principally de- pends; and an external one, which connects them with the neighbouring parts. The extreme arteries, or ultimate branches, into which they divide, are said to terminate in four different ways. Many of them terminate in minute pores in the intimate substance of the different parts, to allow the blood to exude, for the purpose of nutrition. Some of them terminate in secreting organs, furnishing blood to be converted into saliva, bile, urine, and so on. Others terminate on exhalant surfaces ; that is to say, on the surfaces which are constantly kept moist, such as the membranes of the lungs, and of the belly. Lastly, the re- mainder, and by far the greatest number, terminate in the commencement of the veins, (as represented in the diagrams in last article) sending back by them the blood which has not been expended in these three ways. In describing the veins, we must proceed in the opposite direction from that which we have followed in describing the arteries; commencing at the branches, and proceeding along the trunks to the heart. They are much more numerous, and of greater capacity than the arteries, so that the blood moves in them much more slowly. They do not pulsate like the arteries; for the impulse of the heart is nearly lost upon them; and hence, when opened, the blood does not flow from them in jets, but in an equable stream. They consist of two coats, an outer, which is very distensible, so that the vein can swell very much, and an internal one, which is smooth, and in many respects similar to the lining membrane of the arteries. There is one striking difference between them and the arteries, that they have valves placed at dis- tances of an inch or two, which prevent the blood from flow- ing backward from the heart towards the extremities. Hence is the use of tying a fillet round the arm previous to bleeding; the blood is constantly arriving from below, because the pressure is not great enough to obstruct the arteries; but it cannot get up past the bandage; the veins are therefore distended, and become prominent, so as easily to be seen and punctured; and then, as the blood cannot get down the arm again for the valves, it is necessitated to jet out at the orifice, lhe veins in the limbs lie in two sets, a deep-seated, and a superficial. The deep set lie alongside of the arteries, there being generally two to each artery: the superficial lie imme- diately under the skin, and above the fascia or sheath of the VOL I. limb, and these two sets have every here and there branches communicating between them. Hence, when pressure is made by the muscles on the deep set, the blood escapes into the superficial, and finds by that road a passage to the heart. The reasons why bleeding is done in the veins are twofold,—first, that they are more easy of access than the arteries,—and second, that they heal readily, by the mere application of a bandage. On the back of the hand, the veins lie above the extensor tendons, escaping the pressure to which they would have been subjected in the palm. They then take their course up the front of the fore-arm, and over the elbow, where one of the largest runs directly over the artery. In former days, when the lancet was used by the farrier and the midwife, the artery was not unfrequently wounded here, through the vein; and serious consequences were the result. This accident is seldom seen now, when medical practitioners are spread all over the country. Above the elbow most of the veins dip deep to accompany the artery, and in the arm-pit the vein is nearly the size of one’s thumb. Passing up under the collar- bone, it meets the deep jugular vein at the root of the neck. These two there form a large vein, which meets a similar one of the opposite side, and these, again uniting, form the de- scending great vein, which pours the blood from the head and upper extremities, into the right auricle of the heart. On the head a number of veins collect from the scalp, and form a vein in front of the ear,—the temporal vein. Below the angle of the jaw, this receives the vein from the face, and then the one from the tongue, and forms the external jugular vein, in which we are accustomed to bleed in cases of apoplexy. It passes down the side of the neck to the collar-bone, and joins the great vein of the upper extremity. The blood which has been circulating in the brain comes out of the cranium by tw'o large holes, one on each side, and forms the deep jugular veins. These receive the branches from the deep part of the face, and form a vein as thick as one’s thumb,—the deep jugular, which lies close to thecarotid artery. The blood of the lower extremities is collected by veins placed on the back of the foot, that they may escape pressure ; and from these one large vein passes up the inside of the leg, and another along its back, with a multitude of smaller branches which keep up a communication between them. Besides, there are, of course, two deep-seated veins to each of the three artei’ies of the leg, all of which unite in the ham to form the great vein of the limb, lying close upon the main artery. The vein on the back of the leg here joins this vein. The deep vein then continues up alongside of the femoral artery, till in the groin it passes over the share-bone, and enters the belly. The superficial vein on the inside of the leg joins it three or four inches before it enters. The two great veins of the two lower limbs now pass up to meet one another, beside where the aorta bifurcates, receive the blood from about the pelvis, and form the inferior great vein. This vein, about an inch in diameter, now passes up through the belly on the right side of the spine, and receives the veins from the kidneys, and some other small ones. Just before passing through the diaphragm, where, in a large man, it will be nearly two inches in diameter, it receives four or five large veins from the liver. The blood from the stomach, spleen, and intestines, takes a curious course. These veins meet and form a large vein which goes to the liver, where, instead of joining the great vein at once, it divides like an artery, ramifies through the liver, and then returns its blood by the four or five large veins mentioned a few lines back. In the ‘‘ Botanic Garden,” that curiously imagined, and quaintly expressed poem, by Dr Darwin, there is a very pretty description of the circulation, which it may be permit- ted to quote: — “ So from the heart the sanguine stream distils, O’er Beauty’s radiant skin in vermil rills; Feeds each fine nerve, each sleuder hair pervades, The skin’s bright snow with living purple shades, Each dimpling cheek with wanner blushes dyes, Laughs on the lips, and lightens in the eyes. 3 Q