618 THE IMPERIAL JOURNAL OF the appetite, to restore the carbon, and renders exercise ne- cessary to quicken the breathing, so that oxygen may be supplied, in order to restore by combustion, the heat which had been carried oft’ by the vaporization of the cold water. For this reason, long continued speaking, the crying of in- fants, and the dryness of the air, all exert a decided influence on the quantity of food taken. The effect of the process of respiration is clearly seen, if we watch the state of a man or other animal, totally deprived of food. Tlie first effect of starvation is the complete disap- pearance of the fat; and this fat cannot be traced into either the urine or the excrement. Its carbon and hydrogen have been given off by the lungs, in combination with oxygen, and have obviously served to support respiration. In the case of a starving man, 32| ounces of oxygen enter his body daily by the lungs, and pass out again, in combination with carbon and hydrogen, of which there will be about eleven ounces of the former. An individual, who was unable to swallow, lost 100 lbs. of his weight in a month; and a fat pig, which was overwhelmed by a slip of earth, and was dug out after passing 160 days without food, had lost 120 lbs. The way in which the hybernating animals waste during the winter, and the periodical fattening of many animals in the autumn, and their getting leaner during the winter, are additional proof that the oxygen consumes what- soever is capable of entering into combination with it. As starvation goes on, the fat having been exhausted, the mus- cles shrink, and the brain becomes partially absorbed; hence delirium and ravings occur before death closes the scene. In all chronic or long-continued diseases, death is at length produced in the same way, chiefly from the wasting occa- sioned by the chemical influence of the atmosphere. GEOLOGY. CHAPTER XIV. FOSSIL PLANTS OF gHE COAL FORMATION. When led to admit the vegetable origin of coal, we naturally direct our attention to the character of the plants from which it was produced; and here a field of inquiry opens on our view', replete with interest, whether we contemplate it with the eye of the botanist, or the scrutiny of the philosopher. In the fossil plants of the carboniferous rocks, we find genera, and even families which have \been long lost in the scale of vegetable creation, but so connected with the existing order of Nature, as to fill up the links which seemed wanting to complete the harmony of creation; and in others we are able to trace analogies of structure and form, that forcibly convey to our minds the impression, 4hat from the time our infant planet began to be adorned with the beauties of the vegetable kingdom—though its floral richas, the garniture of blossom, or the luxury of fruit, were not conspicuously developed, —yet the plants of that most remote epoch must have dis- played a symmetry of structure, qnd gorgeousness of appear- ance, not surpassed, if even equaled, by the tropical forests of the present day. The generality of the stems of plants found in the coal for- mation are commonly so much combressed, as to warrant the conclusion that they were hollow on succulent. As already noticed, they occur in the sandston<s, clays, shales, and half- formed coal. The best impressions are found in the shales, or slaty clays ; on the surface of vGhich the most delicate markings are preserved of the nerves of the leaves, and the dottings and strialions of the stems. In many instances, the bark is converted into coal; while?, the central portion of the stem consists of the same material as the bed in which the plants occur. In other instances, instead of the sandstone or shale which forms the matrix, ihe ifiass is converted into carbonate of iron, sometimes crystalline, or a calcareo-silicious compound. The roofs of some of the coal-beds exhibit great beauty of appearance, and a vast profusion of plajits. The most re- markable that has come under our personal observation is that of the splint-coal at Monkland Iron Works, near Airdrie. It answers very much to the following magnificent description of a similar deposit, by the Rev. Dr. Buckland “ The finest example,” says he, “ I ever witnessed, is that of the coal mines of Bohemia. The most elaborate imi- tations of living foliage upon the painted ceilings of Italian palaces, bear no comparison with the beauteous profusion of external vegetable forms with which the galleries of these instructive mines are overhung The roof is covered with a canopy of gorgeous tapestry, enriched with festoons of most graceful foliage, hung in wild irregular profusion over every portion of its surface. The effect js heightened by the con- trast of the black colour of these vegetables with the light ground of the rock to which they are attached. The spec- tator feels himself transported, as if bv enchantment, into the forests of another world : he beholds trees of forms and characters now unknown upon thej surface of the earth, pre- sented to his senses almost in the beauty and vigour of their primeval life ; their scaly stems and bending branches, with their delicate apparatus of foliage, all spread before him, little impaired by the lapse of countless ages, and bearing faithful records of extinct systems of vegetation, which began and terminated in times of which these relics are the infalli- ble historians.” The plants, which occur in the manner so beautifully de- scribed by the Doctor, are generally not in direct contact with the coal-bed, but at a littld distance above it. The fern fronds and other leaves are separated from their stems, and frequently lie in the most con "used manner, intermingled with long stems of stigmaria, denuded of their leaves—gigan- tic calamites—and the long sedg ;-like leaves of the flabel- laria, a plant allied to the gramim as, or the palms. As far as our observation has gone, stems of Sigillaria, and Lepidoden- dra, are rare in such situations. 1 The leaves of most common occurrence are those of ferns. ?ruits, apparently those of palm trees, sometimes occur. I; is perhaps worthy of re- mark, that the shales in which con mingled collections of fossil vegetables are met with, general y contain perfect casts of bivalved shells (unios?), and the iemains of fishes—a circum- stance which tends to show that, vhether the plants consti- tuting the coal-beds grew on the spot or not, the vegetable remains imbedded in the superincumbent shales were drifted from a distance. A very ingenious plan has lately been devised for ascertain- ing the true character of fossil plants, by cutting the coal, or other substances into which they have been converted, into thin transparent slices. Geologists had hitherto only at- tempted to classify fossil plants by the peculiarities of their external appearance. This, however, was very unsatisfactory, because the external markings afe frequently defaced, and the bark converted into coal, in w hich little or nothing ol the outward character of the plant is preserved. By cutting the specimens, however, into thin slices, and subjecting these to the microscope, or even, when sufficiently transparent, to the naked eye, we are able to trace fhe minute cells and vessels of the original vegetable texture, with an accuracy and dis- tinctness equal to that by which we become acquainted with the structure of living species. It was by means of this kind that Mr Nicol of Edinburgh was enabled to ascertain the coniferous character of the celebrated trees found in Craig- leith quarry, near Edinburgh, about twenty years ago; and to determine them to have belonged, not to the common fir, but to the Araucaria, a genius of pine now only found in Nor- folk Island, South America, and New Holland. In order to accommodate such of our readers as may not be acquainted with the physiology of the vegetable kingdom, it may be useful to notice briefly a few of the leading phe- nomena connected therewith, before entering upon a descrip- tion of the coal plants. The matter of which the various parts of vegetables are composed consists of two substances, denominated vascular , and cellular tissue. Those plants which, like the fungi or mushroom tribe, consist exclusively of cellular tissue, are i