ART, SCIENCE, MECHANICS, AND ENGINEERING. 427 nothing more than masses of metals of different kinds dis- guised by oxygen ; that they are in fact oxides, anti bear evidence, in many cases, of being the products of com- bustion. ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY. CHAPTER XIII. THE CIRCULATION. In all living bodies, not too minute for us to dissect, we find that there is a vital and highly nourishing fluid distributed all over the body, and penetrating into the intimate structure of every part, on the presence of which life in a great mea- sure depends. This fluid is the blood. The blood in man is of a beautiful rich crimson colour: it is not so however in all living creatures, for in many at the lower end of the scale, it is white or colourless. In the mammalia, birds, reptiles, and fishes, it is red ; and in the other classes of animals, with a few exceptions, it is colour- less. Hence arose the mistake, which was so long committed, of supposing the lower classes to be altogether destitute of a circulation. Its colour varies also in different parts of the body. In the minute vessels, which are like hairs, and hence called capillaries, it is colourless, because into these the red globules are too large to penetrate ; in the arteries it is ver- milion ; in the veins of a strong crimson purple ; and at the right side of the heart it is almost black. It feels thick and unctuous between the fingers, and has a slightly saline taste. In regard to its heat,it varies; in some creatures being warm, and in others cold ; in man, its heat near the heart is 98° by Fahrenheit’s thermometer. When examined by the microscope, blood is seen to be composed of an infinity of red globules, of extremely minute size, floating in a thin transparent yellowish fluid ; and when drawn into a cup, these parts spontaneously separate ; the red globules coagulating into a firm elastic clot, while the serum (so called from resembling whey) becomes clear and of a yellow colour. The clot is principally composed of an animal matter called fibrin, which, it has been already stated, is the principal constituent of the muscles. The red colour is not a necessary quality of this substance, for it can be washed out, leaving the fibrin almost white : it depends, according to some chemists, on a small quantity of iron which exists in the blood, and according to others, on a peculiar colouring principle, different from anything existing elsewhere. The serum consists of water, holding in solution many salts, of which the two most plentiful are common salt, and the phosphate of lime, w'hich has been already spoken of as forming more than half the wmight of the bones. The de- scription of the blood-globules has occupied a number of clever and patient investigators, but the results they have arrived at, are by no means satisfactory. The latest authority gives their diameter as of a line, a line being the I-2th part of an English inch.* The proportion of the fluid to the solid part of the blood is nearly that of four to one, as minutely stated in the ac- companying table, yet from this small quantity of solid mat- ter the wants of all the various parts of the body are sup- plied. It is generally believed now, that the component parts of all the different solids and fluids of the body exist already lormed in the blood, and that in the course of its distribution, these are merely separated from it, and arranged in new * Lecnnu's analysis of the blood is as follows:— 'Water, 786-500 Albumen, 69 415 ! Fibr>n, 3-565 Colouring matter 118 626 i i Crystallizable fatty matter,... 4 300 I Oily matter, 2 270 Extractive matter, soluble in alcohol and water 1920 Albumen, combined with 80<1“, 2100 combinations. This subject will be more fully examined under the head of secretion. For the purpose of sending the blood all over the body, there are a set of tubes everywhere distributed, which are called the Arteries ; and to drive the blood through them, there is an organ similar in its action to a syringe, which is called the Heart. The heart with its system of arteries is exceedingly like the system of pipes through which the water is distributed over a city : an immense mainpipe runs along the principal street, from which less ones run up the smaller streets, and these smaller ones again give off the smallest pipes which supply individual houses. The water is driven through them by an immense forcing-pump, wrought by a powerful steam-engine. In the human body, the heart represents the pump; the aorta, or great artery, represents the mainpipe, which gives off a number of primary branches; these again give off a certain number of secondary ones; and these divide into an infinity of minute ones, millions of which are invisible to the naked eye. And as each house in the city receives a pipe to bring water for its use, so in the body, each part receives its branch, each minute gran- ule its tvvig, so that all may participate in the enjoyment of the life-giving fluid. There is, however, a set of tubes in the circulation, which we do not see in the water-system of a city. There, if the water be used, it is allowed afterwards to run to w aste. But in the body, after having vivified the parts by its presence, and de- posited what was necessary for their growth and repair, the remaining quantity, not greatly diminished, is brought back again to the heart by the veins. Having been sent over from the heart through the arteries, and returned again through the veins, the blood is said to have “run through the circu- lation.” In this figure, we have a plan of the simplest idea of the circulation, as performed by a single heart, v, represents the ventricle or strong muscu- lar bag of the heart, which, when filled with blood, contracts upon it, just as any other muscle does, and so forces out the contents through the pipe which arises from it, called the aorta, just as you squeeze the contents of an India-rubber bag out through a pipe fixed into its neck. The only difference is, that whereas an external force squeezes the bag, the heart, being mus- cular, has a power of contraction of its own ; if the expression be allowable, it squeezes itself. And then, just as the India-rubber bag regains its shape when you take off the pressure, so the heart, when it has squeezed out all the blood, dilates itself again, and is ready to contract anew. It is this alternate contraction and dilatation which constitutes the beating of the heart. The blood having been poured into the great artery, goes through branches up to the head, and down to the lower part of the body, where its minute or capillary ter- minations are seen to end in veins. Those from the lower part of the body form an inferior great vein ; those from the upper a superior; and the two veins terminate separately in a bag a, called the auricle. The auricle is not nearly so strong as the ventricle, because it has nothing to do with forcing the blood over the body ; it is intended merely as a receptacle for the venous blood, till the ventricle be ready to receive it. Its name is derived from a Latin word signifying the hanging part of the ear, because a portion of the edge of it is exceed- ingly like a dog’s ear. The auricle is constantly full of blood, which flows to it through the veins in an equable stream ; so that whenever the emptied ventricle dilates, the blood from the auricle rushes in, and distends it for a renew- ed contraction. But the arteries are not a set of rigid tubes ; they are dilatable, and highly elastic. Hence at the moment when the ventricle contracts, the blood which is forced into them Chlorides of soda and pot- ass, alkaline, phosphates, sulphates and subcarbon- ates 7-304 Subcarbonate of lime and magnesia, phosphates of lime, magnesia, and iron, peroxide of iron, 1-414 Loss, 2-586 1000*