95 ART, SCIENCE, MECHANICS, AND ENGINEERING. ward and forward for three hours or more, until the delicate sense, which resides in the orifice leading into the intestines, is satisfied that it is fit to pass farther; the constricted ring then opens to let it through, and it passes into the com- mencement of the bowels. But such is the delicacy of per- ception with which the outlet of the stomach is endowed, that it will not let undigested food pass, until it has been rolled about in the stomach for many hours, and presented to it and rejected many successive times. Indeed, it often refuses to allow such food to pass at all; and then there is no help for it but that it be ejected summarily by vomiting. Let us now inquire into that part of the process of diges- tion which goes on within the stomach. In this organ the first of these changes takes place which fits the extraneous matter swallowed as food, for being re- ceived into the circulation of the fluids of the living body, and for becoming a component part of the animal. For now the gastric juice, acting on the semifluid mass, gradually dis- solves out the digestible part, and, entering into union with it, produces a new, thick, turbid fluid, which has been called chyme. The alimentary mass changes its sensible and chemical properties by an operation peculiarly animal, or depending on the existence of life. The change is not strictly chemical ; for we do not find anything like it going on out of the living body. Animal or vegetable matters, in any vessel possessing the heat and moisture of the stomach, would quickly fall into fermentation and become sour, but the living properties of the stomach prevent this. No super- fluous acid is formed in the stomach in the healthy state ; but when it is weak, and its nervous action deranged, then the symptoms which announce the diminished power are the j extrication of gas, and abundant formation of acid, with op- I pression and uneasy sensations. The stomach having been \ stimulated bv fulness, both of food and wind, and still more by the peculiar excitement caused by the food undergoing digestion, its muscular coat is brought into action, and its ! contents delivered over into the commencement of the small intestine. We are solicited to take food by the uneasy sensation of hunger,—a sense which appears placed as a safeguard, lest the body should be permitted to wear out. In the artificial state of society in which we live, where regular hours are ap- pointed for meals, so that one shall succeed before the inter- val after the preceding shall have been so long as to pro- duce pain, no one almost knows what hunger really is, ex- i cept by some self-inflicted abstinence on a fishing or shoot- ing excursion. Yet though unaccustomed to be felt by us, l there is an unpleasant sensation produced by want of food, amounting at first only to a feeling of emptiness, lassitude, , and indescribable uneasiness, but gradually getting worse until it end in actual pain, as if the inward parts were all on fire. There was a time when it was thought that the inter- i nal surfaces of the empty stomach rubbing against one another || produced hunger ; and hence arose the vulgar phrase of I “ taking the wrinkles out of your stomach,” by satisfying the I appetite ; but that is too mechanical an explanation. If the h sensation proceeded merely from such rubbing of the coats I of the stomach, food swallowed would be more likely to aggra- j| vate than to assuage the gnawing of hunger ; to excite the |! action of the stomach would be to excite the appetite ; and lj an irritable stomach would be attended with an insatiable |j desire of food. But something more than mere emptiness is |! required to produce hunger. By some of the ancients, hun- | ger was referred to the weight of the liver dragging down i; the empty stomach, forgetting that the liver is as heavy, and | "'ll drag as much, when the stomach is full as when it is | empty. By others, with more probability, it is supposed to ji proceed from the action of the gastric fluid on the nerves in j the coats of the stomach. Hunger is like thirst, a sense , placed as a safeguard to call for what is necessary for the system, and depending on the general state of the body. Morbid craving may proceed from many causes ; a tape- worm in the bowels has occasioned voracious appetite, and | ardent spirits and high seasoning excite it even when the stomach is full; but natural hunger has always a reference to the wants of the general system. Thirst is a sensation seated in the tongue, throat, gullet, and stomach. It depends on the state of the membrane which lines these parts, and of the fluids which naturally moisten it, and may arise either from a deficiency of that fluid, or from an acrid state of it. It would appear to be placed as a monitor calling for the dilution of the fluids by drink, when they have been exhausted by perspiration and the fatigue of the body, or when the contents of the stomach require to be made more fluid, the more easily to suffer the necessary changes of digestion. The feeling of thirst, when carried to an extreme, is said to be much harder to bear than that of hunger ; and the most dreadful picture is given of it in some accounts of shipwrecks, particularly in that published of the horrible calamities endured by the crew of the French frigate, the Medusa, on the coast of Africa. The1 changes which take place on the tongue, in conse- quence of the state of the stomach and intestines, depends on its intimate connexion with these organs, and the nervous sympathy which is established between them. The state of the tongue, the loose or viscid state of the throat, the secre- tion of the saliva, the softness or huskiness of the voice, are all influenced by the state of the stomach. We attend more to the effects on the tongue than to any of the rest, because it is more accessible, and affords us a sort of index to the state of the stomach. In health, it is clean, red, and moist; in indigestion, it is white ; in disorders of the bowels it is more or less thickly furred ; after excess in wine, it is dry and chopped ; and in bad cases of fever, it becomes quite black. A great deal of nonsense has been written, and a great many absurd experiments have been performed, with the view of elucidating the nature of digestion on the one hand, and the digestibility of various kinds of aliment on the other. A very curious case, however, occurred in America, by which immediate access was had to the living stomach, and the experiments which were performed have been published by their author, Ur. Beaumont of Plattsburgh, in the state of New York. A young man, of good constitution, when eighteen years of age, was accidentally wounded in June, 1822, by a musket loaded with buck-shot fired close beside him. The shot tore away a piece of his left side, about a handbreadth in extent, making a hole in his stomach. For seventeen days every- thing that was taken by the mouth passed out at the hole; but after that period, by means of properly adapted bandages, the food was enabled to be retained. The wound gradually diminished, until it became of the size and nearly of the ap- pearance of the natural anus, the lining membrane of the stomach joining the skin all round ; and about a year and a half after the accident, the membrane came to form a sort of valve, which prevented anything from running out, although it readily permitted the finger, or a tube, or a tea-spoon, to be introduced. By two years after the accident, he had com- pletely recovered his health and strength; and Dr Beaumont conceived the idea of making use of the extraordinary oppor- tunity thus put in his hands, of examining into the nature of digestion. When the stomach was empty and at rest, the interior of its cavity could be examined to the depth of five or six inches, and food and drink could be seen entering it through the ring at the entry of the gullet. The solvent power of the gastric juice was ascertained in the most conclusive manner. Almost every variety of aliment, whether animal or vegetable, when submitted to the action of the fluid taken from the sto- mach when fasting, and kept at the temperature of about 100Q, was found to become in a few hours reduced to a paste, which resembled very nearly the contents of the stomach alter the same kinds of aliment had been eaten. The rapidity with which substances were dissolved by the gastric fluid out of the body, was always in proportion to the purity of the fluid, and the tenderness and state of minute division of the sub- stances submitted to its action. Milk and the white of egg