ART, SCIENCE, MECHANICS, AND ENGINEERING. 447 strativc of the economy cf speech than all the works of art that have been intended for this purpose. Instance of the Class-room of a Man of Science, formed of similar materials, and producing similar Effects as in Canon Mills.—I shall now give another instance of rude and rugged materials producing similar effects, from similar causes, by moderation of action and sound. A celebrated physiologist, in his examination before the last Committee of the Commons, on the transmission of sound in apartments, die., alludes to a parti- cular class-room, as constructed on scientific principles, and well adapted to the purposes of speech. In it the floor is of earth, the walls of solid and rough masonry, the roof is of un- planed plank, covered above with a thick coat of compost, and supported in the central parts by pillars of brick, in their origi- nal porous state; all being comparatively solid, and rough on their exteriors. The only material difference that I can per- ceive is, that the old gas-house, Canon Mills, is a matter of chance in regard to sound ; whereas the learned doctor’s class- room has been constructed by a man of science ; they are in- deed very different in form, and yet form is the only point that architects seem to consider of importance in imitating Canon Mills. One advantage in both these places is, that there is little glass exposed to the voice of a speaker. The materials used in Canon Mills, the physiologist’s class- room, tlis meanest cottage, or even the barn, are alike. Erroneous to suppose that JJndulatorxj Action should be lengthened, and Reflections prolonged.—The learned doctor, in his further depositions, recommends that the reflections of speech, in the Houses of Parliament, should be taken from the ceilings, transversely to the direction in which the human voice proceeds from the mouth ; the direction being horizontal whether we sit or stand. He also advises that the ceilings should be formed on the principles of a piano-forte sounding-board ; thus increasing and prolonging sound and the reflection of each letter more decidedly than the copyists of Canon Mills. It may now be proper to enneavour to ascertain the princi- ples by which the reflecting bodies, in these two apartments, are less ungenial to articulation, than where such are more sonorous and refined in appearance, as this may lead to the beneficial use of materials possessing similar properties, but less offensive to the eye. Reasons why Sp>eech is less indistinct in Canon Mills and the Physiologist’s Class-room than in more refined apartments. ■—Doctor Neil Arnot remarks, that when sound is reflected by a solid, the angle of incidence and reflection correspond ; and he illustrates this by a boy’s hand-ball thrown against a wall, when the angle of reflection is equal to that of incidence. But the analogy applies only in a limited degree, because the ball is kept together in mass, whereas, the component parts of the atmosphere are scattered and divided, and so is sound, as our sense of hearingtells us. The greatest repelling force is no doubt in one direction, but the matter that gives effect to sound passes, in a certain degree, in all directions; the particles in the atmo- sphere impinging on a rough surface, press in various directions, in conformity to the minute angles presented to them, and con- sequently occasion less vibratory and undulatory action in the reflecting body than when the surface is smooth and the pres- sure in one general direction. The component parts of the atmosphere, thus recoiling in various directions, strike upon and PPPOsc each other, and from this cause also lessen sound. If pho ear be near to such rough surfaces, they occasion harsh mund to be transmitted to the nerve of hearing; but at a little listance, the atmosphere again runs smooth, and produces no mch effects. I would next observe, as to the earthen floor, that the action ind sound from it are much less than from hollow boarding—the arth is comparatively soft, little elastic, and rough externally —for these reasons, sound from it does not sensibly affect the ar, nor cause any reaction from the roof. These facts may be earned from the ground in general producing no confusion either e speech or music. The earth has also an action different from ard bodies of limited thickness, such as boards, lath, and plaster, y which motion and sound are lessened in these materials. Angular Surfaces calculated to prevent extraneous Sounds ram reaching the ear.—The apartments just alluded to are, conceive, better calculated to demonstrate, by the rough sur- »ce and comparative solidity, the means by which harsh and ngenial reflections may be prevented from reaching the ear, than to exemplify the mauner in which consistent reflections are to be obtained. Sound reflected from Sonorous Solids in Apartments, in at least six directions, must necessarily confuse Speech.—It may be remarked, that an apartment for speech being a work of art, in which solids are in a limited space, and most of them sono- rous, when from the human voice, or any other cause, sound is produced by rapidly agitating the atmosphere, it impinges on, and recoils from, the sonorous solids, on the walls, the floor, and the ceiling, in at least six different directions ; and if the agita- tion be great, the effects are similar to what is produced in the ocean, when waves meet from various directions in a small com- pass, occasioning, by their conflict, confusion in sound, as it has already done in the atmosphere, by which it is conducted. There are various ways of exemplifying this in apartments, and in the atmosphere, where sound is not confined. All Curvatures, by concentration, confuse Speech.—Notwith- standing that all writers on this subject, so far as I have been able to ascertain, recommend excess of sound, and several ad- vise its concentration, or being made to act in foci, wherever the human voice, in speech, acts within a curvature, articulation is deranged, and the greater the curve and the more sonorous the material, the greater is the perturbation. The evil of extreme agitation, by changing the original cha- racter of sound, is exemplified in that of a bell, the sound of which is most clearly, intensely, and distantly heard, when there is an extremely light current of air moving from the bell towards the ear ; but if the wind be strong, the component parts of the air are deranged, and sound is not heard so intensely, distinctly, or distantly. Sonorous Solids conduct Sounds generally with velocity and intensity in a similar ratio, but in air it is equal in Velocity and Character throughout.—Sonorous solids are considered to con- duct sound with velocity much in the ratio of the intensity with which it is produced—concrete plaster 11 or 12 times, and glass and fir wood with 15 or 16 times its velocity in common air. In the atmosphere it passes with equal velocity in all directions, if no more dense medium should intervene between the source of sound and the ear, and it is conducted without change of cha- racter. In solids, its character and direction are changed, and the degree of sound depends on the density of atoms, and their distance from each other. When sound reaches a solid, its di- rection and character are changed, from various causes, accord- ing to the nature and form of the solid. It is produced by co- hesion, repulsion, and friction in the atoms, and the degree of sound is, therefore, in a great measure, dependent on the density of the atoms and their distance from each other; thus, silver and gold are less sonorous than copper, bell-metal, or glass; and lead, which is peculiarly soft, is less sonorous than any of these bodies. Sound acts similarly in the Musical String and in Wood of long fibre.—There are other properties and arrangements in cer- tain materials, which appear to operate, by their cohesive and repulsive principles, most powerfully in one direction; for in- stance, in wood of long fibre it acts predominantly in the direc- tion of the fibre, similarly to that in the musical string. Not only do these circumstances lead to a knowledge of the degree and character of sound emitted from various bodies, and tell us that every atom acts its part in producing it; but an understanding of all these points is necessary for the control and guidance of this singular phenomenon. Sound being produced in Solids, acts throughout all their atoms. On striking a solid, so as to produce sound, every atom in it is set in motion, and if another sonorous solid be in contact with it, similar effects are produced in the second as in the first solid, until by friction the atoms are brought to rest, when sound also ceases. Predominating influence in the Solids, but air also necessary to produce Sound.—For the reasons given, in the solids* usual in apartments, sound operates with more intensity and rapidity than in the atmosphere alone (although the solid must be in contact with air), but the predominating influence is in the solids. It is evident, from these and other understood facts, that it is * Professor Liebig says, that every atom in the earth has its own atmo- sphere, and every atom in the finest metal must have its own atmosphere to produce sound. He also remarks, that cork and india-rubber have done more than anything else, in the course of the last fifty years, for the improve- ment of chemistry; and such bodies as these, buff leather, and woollen cloth, 1 may do much for the economy of sound.