ART, SCIENCE, MECHANICS, AND ENGINEERING. 387 and six have been left by nature in a rudimentary state. Santorini, no doubt, was correct; and the view he took, of the matter was not only the most philosophic, but in point of fact the only true view. These small nodules of cartilages, which in men are so imperfect, represent more fully de- veloped cartilages in other animals. It is not in man that we are to look for the fully-developed apparatus of the nostrils. A fibrous membrane con nects all these cartilages to each other and to the ad- joining bones. In fig. 2, a a show the form of the lateral cartilages; b b mark the cartilages of the wings, or alas of the nose ; and e e, the smaller rudimentary cartilages described by San- torini. The cartilage of the septum will be best understood by inspecting fig. 3. descending from a bone termed Fig. 2. Bones of the nose. Lateral cartilages. Cartilages of the wings. Cartilages of Santorini. Aided by a bony plate ethmoid, this large and Fig. 3. a, The bony plate of the ethmoid. b, The middle cartilage of the nose. c, The vomer bone. d, The hard palate. important cartilage, the free margin of which may be seen between the nostrils, and whose loss even partially is so much felt by those to whom this misfortune has happened, divides the nostrils from each other; it is in fact the septum or partition wall. The muscles acting on these cartilages have not yet been very accurately or minutely described ; nor perhaps the nerves, which of course are distributed to these muscles. A partial view of them will be found in a preceding number. The fact which may perhaps most interest the reader is the obvious connection these muscles have with the respiratory or breath- ing system. The first act probably of the respiratory move- ment is to expand the nostrils; and the actual condition of the lungs may occasionally be judged of by the state of the nos- trils and by the action of their muscles. The cartilages just described seem naturally to close the nostrils even in man at all times when not acted on by their muscles. In this respect, however, they are probably more perfect in the seal than in man ; in the rorguel or great northern whale they are the most perfect. In this animal, cartilages which no doubt corres- pond by analogy with the lateral cartilages in man, project deeply into the nostrils on either side. Each is nearly as large as a bolster. By their extraordinary size and elas- ticity they plug up the nostrils, completely protecting them from any eruption of the waters of the ocean when the rorguel seeks its lowest depths ; but when on the surface and at the breathing moment, large muscles, fixed by one extremity into the centre of these cartilages, and by the other to the bones of the face, acting simultaneously with the mid- riff and other breathing muscles, suddenly withdraw them more or less completely from the nostrils, thus clearing a wide passage for the descent of air into the lungs. So soon is this action ceases the cartilages return by their own elas- icity into the nostrils. There is no mechanism connected Aith animal structures more wonderful than the one just described ; and it is singularly wonderful and yet mysterious .o observe how nature has employed,in this great respiratory ict, similar materials throughout the whole range of the nammalia. The mechanism by which the nostrils are ex- v.nded in man is precisely similar to that in the rorguel; and the structures which to the mere matter of fact observer appear so different, are yet essentially the same and strictly analogous. Let us return, however, to man. The human structure is incomparably the most interesting to be known of all animals, although it may be readily conceded that a full knowledge of the uses of man’s organs cannot be rightly attained without an occasional appeal to comparative ana- tomy. The skin of the upper part of the nose differs evidently from that of the lobe and lower parts ; this latter is extremely firm, and crepitates when cut; the sebaceous follicles are remarkably developed. The interior of the nostrils is usually shown by two sections, given in figures 4 and 5; these figures expose the course of the lining membrane of the nose, usually called Pituitary or Schriedenium. Fig. 4 represents the outer Fig. 4. ^ b, the middle turbinated bones, cut partly away. a, the lower turbinated bones. wall of the right nostril. The vascular membrane covers the whole of these surfaces. Where first seen at the edge of the nostrils, it is intimately united to, and may be considered continuous with, the skin. Inwardly, it is prolonged to the middle ear and downwards towards the gullet and windpipe ; it is extended, moreover, although modified into various bony cavities existing in the bones of the face and cranium, whose uses are far from being well understood. The orifices of some of these may be seen in the figure; the remarkable rolled-up structures are the lower and middle turbinated bones ; these are also covered with the pituitary membrane, and by being so rolled up are presumed to offer a more ex- tensive surface for sensation than would have been otherwise obtained in so confined a space. Certain it is that the sense of smell is always very strongly developed when these turbinated bones are found large and much rolled on them- selves. It is upon this surface that the nasal tube opens, conveying the tears from the surface of the eyes into the nostrils. Fig. 5 presents an interesting view of both nostrils Fig. 5. a, palate. b, sinuses or cavities in the cheek bones. c, c, lower turbinated bones, ent across. cut perpendicularlj' down about the middle; it may be readily enough understood by simply looking at the middle partition separating one nostril from the other. The pituitary membrane is very vascular and is apt to bleed excessively from constitutional and other causes ; the arteries are very numerous, and so likewise are the veins. Hence the great advantages to be derived occasionally by applying a leech or two to this membrane in deep inflamma- tions of the nose ; the plugging of the nostrils on the other