ICO the imperial journal of body, and have for their office the removing of the worn-out parts, which are no longer serviceable, and which are to be replaced by new deposits from the blood. The lymph is poured into the duct, which has been spoken of in'the pre- ceding paragraph, and is mixed with the blood in the veins, so that afterwards it may be expelled from the body through the lungs, the liver, the kidneys, and the skin. The lym- phatic and lacteal vessels are included under the common name of absorbents. They both pass through glands, which are roundish bodies (.see last figure) about the size of hazel nuts, in which the absoroents subdivide and reunite, appar- ! ent>y for the purpose of mixing thoroughly the lymph and the chyle together. 1 The absorbent vessels and glands are very subject to dis- ease in those individuals who are of a scrofulous tempera- ment. The glands are very liable to enlarge, inflame, burst, and suppurate, particularly in the neck, armpits, and groins, and produce sores which are very tedious in healing. Some- times in scrofulous children, the larger branches from the in- testines become obstructed before they arrive at the main duct, so that all the food they eat, (and they generally have voracious appetites), never does them any good, because it never gets into the circulation. Such children are generally small and puny, with sharp thin faces, and large tumid bellies. The whole of the contents of the belly are covered with a thin shining membrane, called the peritoneum, which also lines the boundary walls of that cavity. It is of the same nature as the membrane which lines the chest and covers the lungs, and as that which surrounds the heart. Its smooth polished surface is evidently intended to permit the constant gentle motions of the bowels to go on easily, without our being at all sensible of them. This surface is kept moist by a thin liquid, the evaporation of which is the reason why the body of an animal newly killed is seen to smoke when opened and exposed to the air. W hen this fluid is poured out in too great quantity, the bag of the peritoneum becomes dis- tended with it, and constitutes the disease called dropsy. When medicines have no effect in reducing this, it becomes necessary to tap the patient; that is to say, to insert a small tube with a sharp point into the cavity of the belly, so as to permit the water to run out. This membrane is exceedingly liable to become inflamed, and when inflammation does come on, it runs a very rapid course, and generally proves speedily fatal. It is from this inflammation that many of those females sink, who perish after child-bearing. Let us now devote a page to a notice of the diseases of the alimentary canal. The stomach is rarely the seat of inflammation. It is so accustomed to have all things indiscriminately, and often tecklessly, poured into it, that it would not be fit for its place in the body, if it were too easily put wrong. Many poisons, however, such as vitriol, arsenic, and corrosive sub- limate, produce death by exciting in it violent inflammation. The stomach is nevertheless subject to a very low degree of inflammation, or rather irritation, which gives great uneasi- ness to its possessor. There are many, particularly among the female population, and these not in the lowest ranks, who can scarcely swallow any food, without its being suc- ceeded by a feeling of distension and a sense of uneasiness, not amounting to actual pain, but as distressing as if it were, producing headach, giddiness, coldness of the feet and of the surface generally, acidity, with eructations of gas, and sometimes the bringing up of a mouthful of fluid. These annoyances last till the three or four hours are passed, during which the food remains in the stomach. Ailments of this kind are exceedingly difficult to remove, for a plain reason, because the stomach cannot be allowed to rest; it must always go on with its work to a certain extent, and the only ease it can get is, that the aliments introduced shall be as easily digestible as possible. It is not easy to lay down any rule tor this, although the account given in the preceding article of the digestibility of different substances will furnish some data ; but the stomachs of those troubled with indi- gestion are most capricious, and we sometimes see them re- ject anything simple, and evince what we would consider the most extraordinary predilections. Mild laxatives, tonics, bitters, Ac., all may take their turns as assistant remedies • but nothing can be persevered in long, and a constant refer! cnee to the medical attendant is necessary. Small blisters over the stomach, or crops of pustules brought out by rub- bing the skin with tartar-emetic ointment, are often most beneficial. Sometimes, after long disorder of thp stomach, perforation takes place, and its contents escape into the cavity of the belly, producing violent inflammation and a hurried death. Cancer is a disease which attacks the stomach after the middle period of life is passed ; it consists of a thickening Oi its coats, forming a growth which sometimes can be felt even from the outside, and generally ulcerated upon its internal surface. It produces the most distressing symptoms, burning heat, constant craving for food and drink, with inability to retain them, and at length the patient dies' worn down to a shadow. Inflammation of the bowels takes place after exposure to cold, or the swallowing improper food. Pain marks its approach, and generally obstinate costiveness; and unless active treatment be had recourse to, the result is speedily fatal. J A quickened action of the bowels, hurrying through them whatever has been taken into the stomach, together with an increased quantity of the mucus which naturally moistens this lining membrane, constitutes a diarrhoea or looseness. 1 his may be caused by any substance which disagrees with the stomach, especially by new vegetables when "they first come in ; or by a more remote cause, application of cold to the body when heated, which drives the blood in upon the internal organs. In this country, however, the lungs are the parts most apt to suffer from this last cause. Sometimes the flow of bile is much increased at the same time ; and one is said to have a bilious diarrhoea. Then again, the lining membrane may become inflamed and ulcerated, while the purging of bile continues, mingled with blood, and attended with severe gi iping pains ; and the patient is said to have dysentery. This is a complaint of hot climates, but we have it also, especially in the heats of autumn. If, again, vomiting of bile be joined to this purging, the complaint is called cholera. A dreadful form of this, the epidemic cholera, passed over great part of the globe a few years ago, committing great devastation in its path. It was in this country in 1832 and 1848, and the sad sufferings and deaths of their relatives and neighbours must be fresh in the memories of many of our readers. A very painful affection of the bowels, but without danger, is colic ; consisting of a distension of the great gut with an unusual quantity of gas, which is prevented from escaping by a spasmodic contraction of some part between it and the natural outlet. Some hot drink generally gives speedy relief. A curious form of colic is common among painters, the lead colic, depending on the absorption of white lead into their systems, and is accompanied by a loss of power in the muscles of the fingers and wrist. It is a curious thing that other animals sometimes take up their abode within ours, especially in the bowels. Besides some rarer forms, there are three species of intestinal worms with which we are familiar. Hundreds of very small white ones take up their abode in children, infesting the lowest part of the gut, just within the anus, and giving great annoyance from the irritation which they cause, hesides occasioning a falling away in health and strength. Worms, from five to eight inches long, are found in the small intestines in some individuals, and even make their way up into the stomach, so as to be thrown up by the month. A rare kind is the tape-w orm, about half an inch broad, and from ten to twenty feet long ; it is generally solitary ; indeed, one such com- panion will be quite sufficient. The presence of intestinal worms is always accompanied by loss of health ; strong medi- cines are required to drive them out, and careful attention to the state of the bowels afterwards, to discourage a second invasion.