THE IMPERIAL JOURNAL OF 556 ing itself, with more or less rapidity, to the distinct percep- tion of objects more or less remote. We shall consider this faculty when speaking of the annulus albus, or ciliary liga- ment. Of the refracting media placed within the eye-ball, the lens is admitted to be the most important; it serves, in fact, the purpose of a magnifying glass or lens of very great powers placed within the eye. It presents within the eyes of various animals a great variety of forms, being perfectly globular in some, as in fishes; and in man and in birds, biconvex. This form seems best adapted for an extended range of vision. The lens of the cod and haddock when quite fresh may be used as a magnifying glass; and it may probably be owing to this globular form of the lens in fishes, that some of them at least see animals in the waters which are perfectly micro- scopic to man. This is the case with the verduce of Loch Maben, which lives exclusively on microscopic entomostracea, or shell fish, so small as to be invisible to the unaided human eye. The herring lives chiefly on the same food; the char also, and at certain seasons of the year, one kind at least of the Lochleven trout. Other aquatic animals, besides fishes, have the lens of a globular form; and this property extends also to the more common quadrupeds, and is not peculiar to them. The lens is said to be without structure, and without blood- vessels or nerves; in this respect, therefore, it is an excretion, and has been compared to the hah-, nails, and teeth. It is certainly quite free in its capsule, which contains besides a small quantity of liquid termed the liquor of Morgagni. In this liquid of Morgagni recent observers have noticed some singular spindle-shaped bodies. The surface of the lens is soft and cellular, but underneath this it is fibrous and laminated like an onion, and is moreover said to possess an arrange- ment of matter which no art has yet been able to approach; namely, a progressively increasing refringent power by a den- sity progressively increasing from the circumference to the centre; such an arrangement no doubt contributes to correct in the human eye that phenomenon called mzation, found to exist in certain telescopes. It has occurred to me to observe many peculiarities in vision, which, though noticed merely in individuals, may yet characterize numerous classes. I have known persons of the very finest and most acute sight who could not employ or use a common botanical lens or magnifying glass; their sight did not seem to require it. Moreover, it is a great mistake to suppose that what one person sees readily should be as readily seen by others possessing sound vision. The eye must be exercised, and many who have not previously seen the object can with great difficulty be instructed how to look for it. A few years ago Sir John Herschell discovered with the aid of a microscope of high powers an arrangement of matter hitherto unobserved; he published the fact, but although carefully looked for, some of the first observers in the kingdom failed in rediscovering it. At a meeting with Sir John Herschell, Sir D. Brewster mentioned the circum- stance, when, with a slight modification not attended to by them, the structure in question was made manifest to all. A remarkable proof of the difficulty of pointing out even to the acutest sighted of men an object which they have never seen before, or which, from its magnitude, or form, or colour, or diminutive size, is altogether different from their preconceived notions, occurred to the author whilst residing on the fron- tiers of the colony of the Cape. After the expulsion of the Amokoss Caffre race from the territory watered by the Koo- nap, Kat, and Keiskenne rivers, by the British in 1820, it was deemed advisable by the colonial government to declare the territory for the future a “Neutral Territory,” which was not to be occupied nor encroached on permanently by either race, British or Caffre. Into this tract of country the “ wilde,” or game and wild beasts as w e term them, rapidly returned: the absence of man, the agreed enemy and chief destroyer, offering them every security. Into this territory as a precau- tionary measure, “patroles” of small parties of armed men wore sent by the British; small detachments, in fact, from the regiments stationed on the frontiers. One of these, con- sisting of fourteen men and commanded by Ensign C., I ac- companied, my principal object being to ascertain the precise junction of the Koonap and Kat rivers, a spot which, so far as I could leam, had never been visited by any European. Now, it happened that neither Ensign C. nor any of his party had seen an elephant, a circumstance which wras incom- prehensible to me, seeing that they had frequently patrolled over a district which I knew to abound not only with ele- phants, but with every sort of “ wilde.” Accordingly I pro- mised him that before the close of the third day (the limit of our patrol) I would most certainly be able to point out to him a drove or two of those wondrous animals, for I knew that they visited that district in droves of three or four hun- dred at a time. Our first day’s route lay along the high lands connected with the course of the Koonap river, which the elephants had for the time seemingly abandoned, as none were met with; but on the forenoon of the second day, hav- ing crossed the Koonap, and as wre marched towards the point I wras desirous of examining, namely, the junction of the Kat and Koonap rivers, I discovered at the distance of about a couple of miles a drove of elephants of at least three hundred in number. A grassy plain, on which grew a few scattered mimosas, lay between the parts and the wooded hill, on the northern slope of which, scattered over its whole surface, grazed the majestic animals we were in search of. The hill was a portion of a range of hills dividing the territory we were now in from the wild, desolate, and unpro- fitable district of the Great Fish river; it was, like the others, not covered with forest trees, (for there are, properly speak- ing, no forest trees here,) but with tall bushes, some of them fifteen or twenty feet high, and only partially covering the sides of the hill, the brown clay soil appearing at intervals. I mention these circumstances as they tend to explain the singular occurrence which next took place. The instant I saw the side of the hill it was easy for me, the appearance being quite familiar, to distinguish hundreds of elephants quietly browsing on the tall bushes covering its surface, and I pointed them out to Ensign C. and his party; but although they gazed at the hill and at the elephants which I distinguished so clearly, none of the party could discern a single animal. It was in vain that I pointed out to them the enormous living masses moving among the bushes, which at times their car- cases obscured, and by which they were at times lost to Hew ; the movements of the proboscis, the gambols of the young, were all distinctly visible to the experienced eye—to the mili- tary party they were perfectly invisible. Baffled in my efforts to enable the party to discover the drove, Ensign C. and myself (the only persons of the escort who were on horseback) rode gently forward towards the base of the hill, across the open grassy plain, when, coming within about a mile, the whole drove became at once visible to him, and he stood astonished; first at the sight, and afterwards at the difficulty he had ex- perienced in discovering objects of such magnitude ; whenever indeed the precise outline of one elephant was clearly made out, all the rest became apparent; the difficulty seemed to be, the clearly perceiving one. As far as I can recollect, none of the party we left on the verge of the plain made them out. Another observation, something similar in character, is a seeming narrowness of mental and bodily vision, disabling the person from grasping at one view ali the details of an object presented to him. The result is, that the whole it unintelligible, by reason that he sees it only in detail. Man) remarkable instances of this deficiency once occurred during i the exhibition of the great northern whale in the exhibition rooms of the Itoyal Institution in Edinburgh—numerout highly educated persons were found altogether unequal tc the making out of the form of the skeleton, as exhibited, al though to others of a wide verge of mental and bodily vision nothing wras more distinct. It would be difficult to sa; how this arises ; with some it might be owing to their prc conceived notions of the relative bulk of individual part, J having had so strong hold of their minds as to disqualif ] i them from conceiving or of perceiving in nature forms si I different from those with which they were familiar. Another peculiarity in the vision of different persons is th j *■., pow-er of rapidly adapting the eye to various distances. Th:1 is essential to the sportsman, to the observer, to the enginee! j -