ART, SCIENCE, MECHANICS, AND ENGINEERING. 191 process, that we give a sweating powder to a man labouring under a fever ; he sweats all night, and in the morning he is found cooler, and the fever has in a great measure left him. The application of cold chills the surface, represses the cutaneous exhalation, and drives the blood inward, in too great quantity, upon the lungs, or some other weak part, which is apt to suffer. This is what is meant by taking cold. It is no wonder that serious consequences should ensue, where 2500 square inches, (for that is the superficial extent of the skin) have their secretion repressed, and the blood that should furnish it, driven in upon the internal organs. Consequently, to relieve the feeling of this taking cold, the plain way is to bring back heat to the skin;—to bathe the feet, or take a gene- ral hot bath, to swallow a hot gruel, or a sweating powder; and on turning-in to bed, to put on an additional blanket. From what has been said of the quantity of matter which passes through the skin, it will be plain of what importance cleanliness is. To maintain this, the body should be sponged every day from head to foot, and rubbed dry with a coarse towel. The kidneys are two in number, situated in the belly, one on each side of the spine. Each kidney is of an oval shape, with a notch in the side next the spine. Into this notch the vessels enter. A large artery furnishes the materials for the urine; a duct conveys it away when formed; and a vein removes the superfluous blood. In the figure, one-half of a kidney is shown, cut perpendicularly through the middle, so as to show its internal structure. From eight to fourteen cones are seen, consist- ing mostly of straight vessels, pro- jecting from that part of the organ to which the blood is most profusely distributed, from whose points the urine distils, drop by drop, into three membranous funnels. These three funnels unite in the great bag of the kidney, from which the pipe called the ureter leads down to the bladder. The bladder is seated in the fore part of the cavity at the lower part of the belly called the pelvis; it has two openings behind, for the two ureters, perforating very obliquely, so as to prevent regurgi- tation. From its front and lower part, the urethra or water- pipe passes out, through which the urine is to be expelled from the body. I'he urine is a highly animalized fluid, as might at once be supposed from the rapidity with which it passes into putre- laction. It appears to contain a great deal of the waste, or worn-out parts of the body, particularly the saline particles. These salts consist of potash and soda, ammonia, (commonly called hartshorn) which gives it its pungent smell, and a substance called urea, on which many of its peculiarities de- pend. In disease, the urine is affected in various ways. Some- times its quantity is increased or diminished. In the healthy state, a full-grown man voids nearly three pints of urine in a day, the quantity varying in an inverse proportion to the perspiration, and in direct proportion to the drink taken, and to individual peculiarities. In dropsy, the quantity is reduced to one or two wine-glassfuls; and in a very curious disease called diabetes, it is sometimes increased to so much as thirty pints. It varies also in its qualities. In the last-mentioned disease, it becomes sweet, its salts are changed into sugar, which may be crystallized from it, pure and white. Its salts may also become too great in quantity for the water to dissolve, and then they fall down to the bottom of the blad- der, and constitute a sediment, which sometimes concretes into stones. When stones are once formed in the bladder, they produce dreadful irritation, and require to be removed by an operation. Stone has long been a capital subj ect for quacks, who sell medicines which they pretend can dissolve it while in the bladder. All this, however, is mere preten- sion ; for anything strong enough to dissolve the stone, j would first destroy the coats of the bladder. Their medicines, in general, contain soda, which passes into the urine, and has j the effect of coating over the stone, and so rendering it for the time less irritating, but lays the foundation for still greater suffering, by increasing its bulk. Nothing indeed can be trusted for a cure, but the removal of the offending body, by the surgical operation of lithotomy.* DESCRIPTION OF THE TITHONOMETER, AN INSTRUMENT FOR MEASURING THE CHEMICAL FORCE OF THE INDIGO-TITHONIC RAYS.f By John VV. Draper, M.D., Professor of Chemistry in the University of New York. I have invented an instrument for measuring the chemical force of the tithonic rays which are found at a maximum in the indigo space, and which from that point gradually fade away to each end of the spectrum. The sensitiveness, speed of action, and exactitude of this instrument, will bring it to rank as a means of physicial research with the thermo-multiplier of M. Melloni. The means which have hitherto been found available in optics for measuring intensities of light, by a relative illumination of spaces or contrast of shadows, are admitted to he inexact. The great desider- atum in that science is a photometer, which can mark down effects by movements over a graduated scale. With those optical con- trivances may be classed the methods hitherto adopted for deter- mining the force of the tithonic rays by stains on Daguerrotype plates, or the darkening of sensitive papers. As deductions drawn in this way depend on the opinion of the observer, they can never be perfectly satisfactory, nor bear any comparison with thermometric results. Impressed with the importance of possessing for the study of the properties of the tithonic rays some means of accurate measurement, I have resorted in vain to many contrivances; and, after much labour, have obtained at last the instrument which it is the object of this paper to describe. The tithonometer consists essentially of a mixture of equal measures of chlorine and hydrogen gase3, evolved from, and con- fined by, a fluid which absorbs neither. This mixture is kept in * Dr. Thomson, in his Animal Chemistry, gives the following analysis of urine:— Urate of ammonia 0 298 Sal-ammonia, 0'459 Sulphate of potash 2T12 Chloride of potassium, 3 674 Chloride of sodium, 15.060 Phosphate of soda, 4 267 Thosphate of lime, 0 209 Acetate of soda, 2 770 Urea, with colouring matter, 23 640 52-489 Water, with a free acid, probably the lactic, 947-511 1000- f It may be necessary to remind the reader, that in analyzing the solar beam, all parts of it are not found equally active in producing chemical effects; the conclusion, indeed, now very generally admitted by those who have in- vestigated the subject closely is, that in the solar beam there are three distinct kinds of rays—namely, those possessing heating properties, which are termed J the calorific rays; those producing the sensation of l’ght, and which we called the luminous rays; and, lastly, those producing chemical effects, as exemplified in photogenic processes, and the union of chlorine and hydrogen J when exposed in mixture to the sun’s light; and which Dr. Draper proposes to call tithonic rays. In this he adopts the idea of peculiar matters of light I and heat, and considers that the chemical effects are produced by a peculiar material agent, which he terms Tithonicity. Actinism is the term more generally used, and is less liable to objection, as explained in our first chapter on Photography. The name applied by Dr. Draper may hereafter be found inappropriate, and it does not appear to be in the meantime absolutely needed; but the researches with which it is connected are highly valuable, and the instrument described in the following paper will undoubtedly, either in its present or some modified form, be found invaluable in future investi- gations respecting the chemical properties of light.