ART, SCIENCE, MECHANICS, AND ENGINEERING. 49 six days after his birth. It then begins to secrete a dark coloured fluid upon its surface, which in the negro becomes black, and remains, in statu quo, until he dies and decomposes into his natural elements. This dark coloured secretion, shining through the thin external cuticle, gives the black hue to the African’s skin. This secretion is yellow in the Asiatic, red in the American Indian, and pale in the European. The thickened cuticle on the palms of the negro’s hands and the soles of his feet, by its obtuse opacity prevents this black secretion from shining darkly through it, and makes his thickened palms and soles appear much whiter than the rest of his sable body. The African’s hue appears blackest on those parts of his body where the cuticle is thinnest. It is the pale secretion of this coat that makes the albino:* and its bilious secretion caused by obstructed bile, mingling with the circulating blood, makes the white man’s skin appear yellow in jaundice. The varied secretions of this sensitive coat, modified by climate, constitution, and circum- stances, give different colours to the different tribes of mankind. The physical causes of the varied coloured secretions of this mucous coat are not very accurately understood by physiologists. It cannot be the intense heat of the African’s torrid climate alone that has made his skin so black; for the Esquimaux and Green- landers are nearly as dark as negroes, although they live in an arctic climate of perpetual ice and snow; nor can it be cold alone that produces the sable skin; for the Finlanders and Norwegians, who live farther north, and in colder wintry climes than any of the inhabitants of the continent of Europe, are fairer in complexion than any one of them all. The South-American Indians, who live on the summits of the Andes, exposed to per- petual cold, ice, and snow, are as dark in complexion as the inhabitants of the burning valleys beneath them, who luxuriate in indolence, on the soft, warm, flowery lap of everlasting sum- mer. Something must be attributed to domestic and social habits, as well as to external circumstances; the face of the Highland peasant girl is dark-firowra; the Highland lady is white. The constitutional diathesis of different families, tribes, and nations, is modified by education, political, domestic, and social circumstances, and physical causes ; and these may produce all the varieties of complexion that distinguish individuals, families, and nations, from each other. Any one of these causes cannot alone induce all these changes; but the whole, combined and modified individually by their separate and mutual action on each other, may have produced every variety of complexion in the human species. In the negro, the inner part of the second coat is blacker than its outer surface. This coat is also the seat of the pleasure and pain communicated by the sense of touch. It gives us painful sensations when irri- tated by external injuries; and pleasurable feelings, when stimulated by gentle contact with delightful objects. Its cruel Laceration, from external violence, makes the sailor, the soldier, and slave, shrink with agony, when smarting under the infliction of the ignoble lash. It is also the sexual seat of pleasure in mutual kissing. The cold winter storm beating on its nervous sensibility makes us shiver. The summer sun, shining on its delicate nerves, makes us languid; without it, man would be incapable of appreciating pleasure and pain, by the sense of touch and contact with external bodies; and merely exist without sweet enjoyment. The earth, unadapted to his physical constitu- tion, would be to him a dreary wilderness, where plants and lower animals alone could multiply and grow, and over-run its surface. But God, who adapts the means to the end, has made all things right. And every person, who understands the me- chanism and physiology of his skin, will feel gratitude to the Eternal, and praise Him for having made us as we are. Underneath the second, lies the third, or vascular coat. It is lull of minute blood-vessels, and is best demonstrated when acutely inflamed. It is sometimes very much thickened by increased vascular action, and then it may be distinctly seen and examined, by ordinary spectators. It is the scat of the blood-vessels of the skin, and gives the red appearance to the cheeks, lips, and other parts of the body, where the external coverings are thin. It is the seat of the pustules of small-pox, with many other cutaneous diseases, especially those of an in- flammatory nature, induced by extraordinary vascular action. In cases of extreme debility, such as typhus fever, purpura, measles, Ac., it is the seat of the pctechiac, (or dark spots,) that appear • The albino is a white negro. The pale secretion of the muscous coat of 1,4 shin, which makes him white, is diseased. (j like dots in the skin. These spots are caused by its minute exhausted vessels permitting more blood to escape, than its feeble absorbents are able to return quickly into the system; and they always indicate morbid debility. If these spots are formed of venous blood alone, the physical debility is not so extreme as when they are composed only of arterial blood; when venous blood is effused, they are darkly-purple; when arterial blood is effused, they are bright red, like scarlet, and are always a danger- ous symptom, in the last stages of typhus gravior, if the pattent belongs to the lymphatic temperament. Beneath the third coat, lies the fourth, the cutis vera, (or true skin.) This is the thickest layer, and in lower animals is tanned to make leather; after death it is stripped from some of our larger domestic quadrupeds, and tanned for the purpose of making into shoes. In some monstrous wild animals, such as the hippopotamus and rhinoceros, it is so very thick, that it cannot without difficulty be pierced by an ordinary musket-ball. The true skin of the giraffe is an inch and a half thick. In the magatherium, an extinct animal that existed and perished long before the creation of man, it was more than two inches. This fact is not only demonstrated by many petrifactions of those animals skins that have been found by geologists in the rocks that compose the interior strata of our globe; but also from the actual carcass of an entire animal, found a few years a"0, imbedded in a deep layer of everlasting frozen snow, on the' lofty bleak coast of Russian Siberia, and where it must have been buried by accident, at some remote undefined period of the ancient world; the icy grave was first disclosed by a large part of the coast falling on the beach, and leaving the animal exposed. The cutis vera binds down the soft parts of our bodies, protects them from violence and external accidents, and pre- serves their beauty, form, and symmetry, without any ungentle compression, nor does it irritate the most delicate organs that lie underneath it. Its composition appears to be a peculiar modification of gelatine, or animal glue. There is another important use for the skin in the animal economy, than merely an external covering to the body. It is the organ by which perspiration is performed; and is, therefore, necessary for the continued vitality and health of our species, and of every animal that perspires. Perspiration (or sweating,) is an excrementitious evacuation that requires to be constantly exhaled from the body, to free the blood from impurity, and to preserve animal life from immediate disease and premature death. About five pounds avoirdupois of perspired matter pass through the skin of a full-grown man every twenty-four hours. There are two kinds of perspiration, sensible and insensible. The sensible can always be felt and perceived; for it constitutes visible sweating. The insensible passes off in the form of a gas or vapour, and we are not so conscious of its constant evaporation. Sweating is a secretion of the internal coats of the skin, which passes through the external cuticle by innumerable minute pores, imperceptible to the human eye, except by the help of a large microscope. When we see a person covered with large drops of sweat, we may rest assured that they have all passed through these minute pores; but having been perspired quicker than ex- haled, they have accumulated on the surface, and are glistening on it like blobs of dew. Persons in this condition should not expose their bodies suddenly to a cold damp atmosphere; for cold causes the large drops to coagulate, closes the pores of the cuticle, and obstructs perspiration. If we live in a cold atmosphere, where our perspiration is checked, our vital heat is retained. If in a warm atmosphere, where our perspiration is profuse, the heat of the body is dis- charged ; hence the varied quantities of perspiration exhaled in warm and cold atmospheres help to equalize our animal heat, and make it suitable to the exigencies of the different climates to which we are exposed. The skin sympathizes with the lungs, bowels, and other internal organs, and generally renders them healthy or diseased, (in combination with other causes,) propor- tioned to the sanity, or morbidity of its natural functions. The perspired matter is principally composed of water and carbon. It also holds in solution several salts and animal matter. The oxygen of the atmosphere, combining with the carbon, forms the carbonic acid thrown off by perspiration. Besides the in- sensible perspiration, there is also an oily exudation of the glands of the skin, which appears to be useful in giving pliancy and soft- ness to the scales of the cuticle. This oily secretion is verv