THE IMPERIAL JOURNAL OF 188 sent a needle having its north pole pointing towards the conducting wire, w, as soon as the downward current is sent through that wire, the needle will assume a new position, s' N', at right angles to its former one, and there it will attain a state of stable equilibrium ; for when it reaches that position, each pole will be influenced by a force at the same side of the magnet’s axis, c, and the forces so acting will be equal, and possess the same mechanical advantage, inasmuch as the poles are equidistant from the conducting wire. In other words, the tangential forces being directed at right angles towards w s and w n, as shown by the arrows, oppose one another, and acting by the levers, R c and Z C, which are equal in length, are in exact equilibrium, which must be stable, for this reason, that the displacement of s' in a northerly direc- tion will lengthen the lever on that side, as already explained; while it will shorten the lever, R c, on the other side. The power of the longer lever will therefore preponderate, and the needle will be carried back to its former position. In like manner, if the pole, s', were moved in a southerly direc- tion, the force which impels the pole, n', would in that case have the advantage acquired by the longer lever; and its effect would be to bring back the needle to its rectangular position. 33. If, under similar circumstances, the centre of the needle were unrestrained by the pivot supporting it, the resultant of the equal and contrary forces which established the needle in a position of stable equilibrium, passing through the centre of motion, c, would, of course, have no tendency to produce rotation; but when applied at the point, O, (fig. 9,) would tend to draw the conducting wire and the centre of the mag- net towards each other; but if the wire were placed at the contrary side, the tangential forces would then be towards, instead of from, each other, and, in consequence, produce a resultant which would tend to draw the magnet and wire directly from one another, and thus produce an appearance of repulsion. ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY. CHAPTER XX. SECRETION AND EXCRETION. The process by which new compounds are formed from the blood is called secretion. Some of these products are of use in the system, as the bile and the saliva; others are excre- mentitious, or intended to be discharged from it, as the sweat and the urine, and are hurtful if retained. These latter are technically distinguished as excretions. The two classes are not, however, strictly separable, as some substances require to be separated as excretions, and yet are made useful in their passage through the body. Thus, the bile contains a great deal of charcoal -which requires to be separated from the blood ; yet it is not merely poured into the intestines to be discharged, but, in mixing with the food, it produces a chemical change, as noticed in the last chapter, and causes the separation of the milky chyle, which is then presented to the mouths of the absorbents. The secretions which serve for moistening membranes are the mucus, for the mucous membrane of the lungs and diges- tive organs; the serum, for the serous membranes of the chest, belly, and head; the synovial fluid, for the joints; the tears, for keeping the eye wet; and the sebaceous matter, as it is called, a waxy yellowish substance which is seen at the edges of the eyelids, and gives the whole surface of the body an oily appearance, when not removed by frequent washing. Those which assist in digestion are the saliva, the gastric fluid, the pancreatic juice, and the bile. There is one which is formed only at particular times—the milk, furnished by the mother for the nourishment of her offspring. Those which are purely excrementitious, are the urine and the sweat. Let us now examine each of them in succession, along with the apparatus in which it is formed. Many of these fluids are prepared, without the aid of any peculiar structure which we can detect; all that we can ascer- tain being, that the arteries run in great profusion upon a membrane, and divide to great minuteness ; and that in pro- portion as blood arrives at the membrane, the new fluid is produced. Others are formed in a peculiar apparatus called a gland, where the arteries appear to undergo a change in their own nature, and to have the power of changing the nature of their contents. In speaking of the blood, it was already remarked, that at the present day it is generally be- lieved that the materials of all the secretions exist in it, and that the glands merely separate them from the mass of the circulating fluid. The process of secretion undoubtedly goes on under the influence of the nerves ; for we find nerves distributed to all the secreting organs; and when these nerves are destroyed or injured, secretion ceases to go for- ward. As it depends on the presence of blood and of ner- vous energy, it is plainly a vital process. The mucous and serous membranes, with their secretions, have been already spoken of in the chapters on the lungs, p. 549 of the first volume, and the digestive apparatus, p. 94 of the present one. It is only necessary here to state their chemical composition.* The next secretion, mentioned two paragraphs back, was that of the synovia. This fluid, which serves for oil to the joints, and w-hich feels very like oil between the fingers, nevertheless contains no oil, but is of a mucilaginous nature.f The synovial membrane is formed like a serous one, being a shut bag, whose surfaces are everywhere in contact; yet the surface of the membrane itself is like the mucous one lining the mouth and throat, being soft and velvety. It seems linked by a closer sympathy to the serous than to the mucous membranes, for we find the serous membranes to sympathize with inflamed synovial membranes ; that is to say, | when a joint is sorely inflamed, it is not uncommon for the | serous membrane lining the belly or chest, or covering the heart, to become inflamed too, without any other cause that we can discover, than what we call the sympathy depending on the similarity of structure. A plan of a synovial mem- brane is given in vol. i., at p. 365. All the other secretions are formed from the blood by means of peculiar glands w hich are set apart, for the purpose. These differ from one another in form and structure; and yet we can see nothing in any one of them which can explain to us why its peculiar secretion is formed in it, and not in every other. The old physiologists fancied that each gland vva9 like a strainer, pierced with holes of a particular size and form, so that substances of one kind passed through from the blood in one gland, but were retained in another, where some- thing else was permitted to pass. This, however, is too mechanical an explanation. It has been already said, that the process seems to be under the regulation of the nervous influence. Every gland consists of a congeries of small particles, from the size of a pin-head down to that of a grain of sand, each of which may justly be regarded as a perfect gland, complete in itself. For each of these particles, (represented here as greatly magnified,) will have an artery, a, carrying blood to it, both for its nourishment, and for the material of secre- ♦ Mucus. Water, 933-7 Mucus, 533 Chlorides of potassium and sodium, 5‘6 Lactate of soda, with animal matter, 3" Soda 09 Albumen and animal matter, soluble in water, with phos- phate of soda, 35 1000- Sebum. Chlorides of sodium and pot- assium, 6-60 Carbonate of soda, 1-65 Sulphate of potash 0-35 Phosphate of lime, with traces of magnesia O CO Mucous extractive matter,.... 4- Albumen, fG'8 Water 900- 1000- t It is said to contain albumen, fatty matter, an animal substance solu- ble in water, soda, chloride of sodium and potassium, phosphate and carbonato of lime.