557 ART, SCIENCE, MECHANICS, AND ENGINEERING in short, to all men who pretend to be observers. The seat or cause of this faculty, which the eye possesses, has never yet been well explained: some ascribing it mainly to the iris : others to the external muscles surrounding the eye-ball: and others to a peculiar ring or circle called the annulus albus, whose position is near the junction of the cornea and the sclerotic tunic. On whatever this function of the eye depends, certain it is that all men possess it, but in very limited degrees; mere children, for example, have it in a very inferior degree, whilst in some military men, with the very best vision, it is so slowly increased as to be of no use to them in the field. I well remember an officer whose sight was remarkably powerful, and who could, once the object was fairly seen by. him, make out all its details at incredible distances; but the difficulty always was, to 1 get him “to see the object”; once seen, he saw it better than any of us. On this principle I feel disposed to explain how it is that many persons will travel over strange lands and see nothing-, I rode once, with another officer, through a lovely valley full of game; in half an hour I counted at least 40 head of game, from the rhinoceros to the partridge ; my friend returned exactly as he went—he had seen nothing. Caille, who says he travelled from the mouth of the Gambia to Timbuctoo, and never saw a wild animal, must have resem- bled my friend in this respect. The Retina (see Plate) or the expansion of the optic nerve, as some are pleased to consider it, is the most difficult to examine of all the structures, and the least understood. The Germans point out arrangements in its ultimate form, which have not been confirmed in tliis country. The membrane, which is a complex, and not a simple one, is still presumed to be the immediate instrument of vision, and to form the harder surface upon which is depicted the image of all ex- ternal bodies seen by us. These views are quite hypothetical, and are rendered even improbable by the fact that, in the axis of vision, where alone we perceive and see distinctly, the pulpy or nervous retina is wanting; there is, in fact, a'liole in the membrane at the point where we see best; where the optic nerve enters is the puncturn non videns, or point at which we do not see. The range of distinct perception is extremely limited; of this truth any one may satisfy himself by en- deavouring to count the'books on a shelf, when he will find that he cannot count more than one properly or two at most without continually shifting the axis of vision. The choroid tunic is the vascular and varnishing mem- brane of the eye; it converts the eye into a camera ob- scura. The sclerotic is the protecting fibrous membrane ; the uses of the other parts of the eye have been already re- ferred to. Both eyes are required to decide with due preci- sion on the distance of any very near object, although it seldom happens that both eyes have equal power; nay, in numbers of persons one eye is found to be altogether or nearly useless, although tliis could not be surmised from anv external appearance. The theory and history of the subjective phenomena of the organs of vision, viz., apparitions, phantoms and spectres, has been so fully and so ably treated of by Dr. Hibbert, Sir D. Brewster, and others, that any remarks here might appear out of place, or at least superfluous. With a few further remarks then we shall close this section. 1st, There is a harmony in colours, exemplified by what we see in the dresses of various nations placed under different circumstances, as to light and shade ; nothing, for example, looks worse in our cold, cheerless, cloudy country, with its china ink skies, than the gaudy dress of the oriental races, their white and yellow robes, their bright colours, their gaudy tinsel ornaments. On the other hand, an Englishman with his duffle and drab or black coat, and brown waistcoat, is the most ludicrous looking animal in the world under the Persian or the African sun. 2d, Wagner, one of the latest writers on Physiology, thinks that even yet no true theory has been offered of the curious tact that, whilst all the objects of the material world are painted, or represented on the retina of the eye in an inverted position, we still see them correctly, and not inverted but upright. Many years ago an explanation of this singular fact was offered by Mr. Alexander, Walker a most distin- guished anatomist and physiologist; his explanation rested on the fact, that the fibres proceeding from the retina to the brain are inverted in their course, that is, those proceeding from the lower parts of the retina reach the upper part of the brain, and vice versa-, this, of course, produces an inversion of the ideas. DISEASES OF THE EYE. The eye, as may be supposed from the complexity of its structure and uses, is liable to many diseases. . Sometimes the optic nerve, or retina, is palsied, and the disease called amaurosis, or, more familiarly, gutta serena, is produced. At other times the transparency of some of the refracting media is -destroyed, and the rays of light thereby prevented from impinging upon the retina. Such constitute the affections of cataract and glaucoma. Both the lens and its capsule are liable to opacity, which more or less impedes vision, and constitutes the disease called cataract. The lens, when thus affected, is sometimes softer, and at others harder, than natural, and hence the systematic writers describe a hard, soft, and milky cataract. _ The causes of cataract are very obscure. One of the pre- disposing causes of it is old age, and the tendency to it seems to be hereditary. The exciting cause is sometimes a blow upon the eye, but is as often not appreciable. Cataract may be known by two positive and one negative symptom. First, the pupil, instead of being black, is brown, yellow,, or white. Secondly, the vision is defective, and there is sometimes complete blindness, except that the power remains of discerning the outlines of objects held be- tween the eye and the light. Thirdly, the iris is moveable. In general, cataract comes on gradually, the opacity, and, consequently, dimness increasing by slow degrees. Durino- this progress, the patient always sees best in an obscure lighf, because in such the pupil dilates most, and exposes the lens towards the circumference, where the opacity is always least. The only cure for cataract is a surgical operation, and three methods of thus treating it are in use. One of these is called couching, and consists in putting a needle into the eye, and pushing down the opaque lens. Another consists in cutting out the lens altogether; and the third consists in introducing a needle, and breaking up the lens into bits, which are subsequently absorbed. The best mode of treatment is held to be, in general, to introduce a curved needle through the sclerotic, and depress the lens, if found to be firm, and to break it up, if soft. After the operation, the patient requires to be confined for some days to a darkened room, and observe an antiphlogistic regimen. With reference to glaucoma, a similar affection, Cooper observes, that in this disease the eye is green or yellowish- green, and if the eye be looked at laterally, no discoloration is seen. In cataract, the pupil is grey or greyish-white, and it has the same appearance in whatever direction it is viewed. In glaucoma, the loss of vision is not in direct proportion to the change of colour in the pupil. With an inconsiderable change, vision may be entirely destroyed, or seriously im- pared ; but in cataract, there is a direct proportion between the degree of.opacity, and the injury to sight. In cataract, vision is best in a weak light; in glaucoma, it is stronger in a powerful light, because, as the retina is less sensible, more light is required to make an impression on it.” Almost all the tunics and other parts of the eye are liable to inflammation; the conjunctiva is more particularly so; and in this the inflammation may be set up by exposure to bright light, intense heat, cold winds, dust, and foreign bodies, and also by disorders of the stomach. Moreover, when the’eon- junctiva has been once inflamed, the inflammation is very apt lrom slight causes, to recur. This inflammation is sometimes very acute, and at others quite chronic. In the acute forms there is great redness and injection of the affected membrane’ swelling of the eyelids, and great secretion of tears, intolerance of light, pain in the eye, with the sensation of sand in it, and symptomatic fever. This latter is absent in the chronic form,