21 ART, SCIENCE, MECHANICS, AND ENGINEERING. cciveil and appreciated. We admire the steam-engine—it is worthy of admiration—it is one of the greatest and most useful inventions of man; but man is a machine, that for mechanical arrangement and accurate adaptation, as far surpasses it, as a natural plant excels an artificial flower. There is nothing like wan in organic matter. He bears upon him, and within him, the impression of his almighty Creator. No man can be an atheist who understands the structure and laws of his own body. From conception till death, we are endowed with a mysterious vitality; and when our mortal destiny is finished, life extinguishes, and our bodies resolve into the elements that compose them. This is an organic law of nature, inexplicable, immutable, irre- vocable ; and no animal is exempted from its fatality. The human body is composed of parts ; each part constitutes a separate economy, depending on the whole, and the whole is sustained by its parts. Internally there is a strong framework of bones, and on these the superstructure is built: over the bones is laid a thick bed of muscular flesh, in regular thin layers, com- posed of long slender fibres, each layer acting like a pulley, rais- ing and depressing the bones at the will of the individual. To the extremity of each of the deep-seated muscles (over the bones,) a piece of strong white tendinous cord is attached, and inserted into the bone, by which it is moved and motion is performed ; the joints are mechanically constructed, and nicely adapted to each other, and attached by ligamentous bands that bind them together and prevent dislocation. In the bones, in the muscular flesh, and in every part of the body, blood-vessels, composed of arteries and veins, ramify in every direction, from the thickness of a child’s wrist, to an almost imperceptible thread. The arteries convey the oxygenized blood to every part of the body, to repair its waste, and cause it to grow. The veins return the carbonized blood back to the heart, unfit for nutrition, to be re-oxygenized by the inhalation of atmospheric air in the lungs, and deprived (by expiration,) of the carbon and hydrogen that rendered it destructive to animal life. In the abdomen (or belly,) we have the stomach, bowels, liver, spleen, pancreas, and kidneys, each and all performing their sepa- rate work, with silence, order, and harmony. The stomach re- ceives the masticated food, and, by its gastric juice, digests it. It requires about four hours to complete healthy digestion. The liver pours its bile into the duodenum (or first gut), assists diges- tion, separates the nutritious from the excremcntitious aliment, and aids the expulsion of the latter. In the upper region of the bowels, the lacteals (little absorbent vessels,) suck the nourishing part of the food, and send it, by the mesenteric glands, into the receptacle of the chyle ; it then passes into the chyle-duct, (transformed into a milky fluid,) and ascends, by muscular action, contrary to the laws of gravity, until beneath the left-shoulder it oozes into the left sub-clavian vein, and mingles with the blood. In the chest we have the lungs, composed of delicate cells and I blood-vessels, receiving and expelling the respired air. The cir- culating fluid passes from the heart into the lungs, and is there exposed to the action of the air we breathe. It parts with the carbonic acid, hydrogen, and watery vapour which it imbibed in circulation, and absorbs oxygen ; changes from a dark-purple to a bright scarlet-red, returns to the heart, and is sent, by the ! simultaneous action of the arteries, into every part of the body, | to nourish and repair it. This extraordinary process never ceases ! till we die. In every age and clime it proceeds with the same regularity, without our consciousness and will. There arc about twenty-five pounds of blood in a full-grown man. In the hollow of the skull we have the brain—the most mys- terious organ in nature. It is divided into two hemispheres, I several lobes, and enclosed in three membranes. We have two distinct brains—the cerebrum before, and the cerebellum behind: ! the spinal cord is a prolongation of the brain, enclosed in twenty- four bones, joined together by intermediate cartilages, that render I it flexible, and by the nicest mechanism, prevents spinal compres- I sion. From the brain and spinal cord numerous nerves extend in every direction, from the thickness of the little finger, to the finest gossamer-thread ; giving life, sensation, and motion, to every part of the body. The brain seems to be an animo-galvanic apparatus, in which the vital principle is generated, and the nerves are vital conductors. The nerves of the senses com- municate between the mind and the external world through the medium of the brain. The spinal cord derives its function directly from the brain, and gives motion and sensation (by two sets of nerves) to the part3 supplied. The heart and arteries pulsate by nervous power, received from the brain, and are stimulated by the circulating blood. We move our bodies by nervous energy derived from the spinal cord and the brain. We see, hear, taste, feel, smell, eat, drink, digest, grow, and renew, by nervous influence, that has its origin in the brain. The mind resides in the brain; we cannot live, think, reason, judge, nor do any thing vital and rational, without the brain ; it is the material organ of the mind, by which she communicates with the external world, and without it she is a nonentity. It is her sanctum-sanctorum, where she resides in mysterious silence, and cogitates on nature and revelation, bounds in thought through universal space, roams from time to eternity, and bow s with adoration at the footstool of the Eternal. To make the animal machine a little world, individualized and perfect, the external skin completely envelops and preserves it in complicated unity, and is beautifully finished by the almighty hand of our infinite Creator. The animal machine is self-preserving and self-propagating. The blood circulating in the body is deposited in minute quanti- ties, (wherever it is required,) and supplies the bodily waste and repairs its injuries ; and all the parts of the body are composed of blood. As we begin to grow old, the organs that form the blood become diseased, deteriorate its quantity and quality, and render it unfit for animal nourishment; hence the progress ot decay, with advancing age. By the union of the sexes, the human race is propagated by a process, mysterious, natural and unknown. Notwithstanding the perfection and beauty of the animal machine, there exists in its constitution a mysterious necessity for death. When man passes the meridian of life, he is gradually dying, and before threescore and ten years pass over him, his appearance indicates the progress of approaching dissolution. His hair becomes white—his brow bald—his face wrinkled—his hands shrivelled, and his feet cold. His eyes grow dim—hearing is dull—smelling imperfect—taste impaired, and the sense of touch blunted. His limbs move slowly and tottering, and he leans forsupporton his staff. His heart beats slow and intermits— the blood circulates sluggishly—he breathes heavy and oppressed —his bowels are inactive, and the appetite is sick. Dull, weari- some, sleepless nights creep over him, and morning returns without administering comfort to his torpid brain: lie is querulous, irritable, and childish, and feels little delight in events that glide on before him. His mind broods on the past, and the recollection of his early years and departed friends haunt his torpid brain ; at night on his couch, he dreams of the dead, and at noon, talks of the dead in his lonely walks. He exists the mere wreck of what he was ; the summer sun sickens him, the winter wind chills him, and the eastern blasts make him shiver. His grand-children, and great-grand-children gather around him, and climb his knees—ho loves them, and tells them tales of departed years. He is the last sad relic of his father’s house —the lonely existing unit that joins the present to the past. His mind, still pleased with her existence, sits unconcerned amid the ruin, sheds a feeble glimmer over her frail tenement, and fondly clings to its desolation. On a cold February night, the east-wind howls and inflames his lungs—he complains of a dull pain in his chest—is restless, thirsty, and feverish, picks the wool from his bed-clothes, raves of his parents and departed wife, mutters incoherent ejaculations, and dies. “ No sooner has he breathed his last, than those chemical agents, external and constitutional, which .when subservient to life, kept him from" decomposing, now usurp the supremacy, and begin to decompose that fabric, which formerly they not only had reared, but likewise preserved ; ammoniacal and inflammable gases evolve before the body be buried.” If the grave is warm and dry, the body rapidly decomposes. If cold and moist, it for a long time resists putrefaction; years pass away—the body is fast decomposing, and shall soon return to the elements that formed it; ages pass away—the soft parts are decomposed, and a few crumbling bones are all that remain ; centuries pass away—the mouldering bones have also disappeared, and nothing can be discovered and collected, of the mysterious fabric, that once lived, and grew, and propagated, and died. Search the grave for the wreck of man, who existed a thousand years ago, it is not to be found among the memorials of mortality. It has been reduced into its simple elements, and has become, in irregular succession, part of other animals, minerals, water, earth, air, and plants. The same elements that compose our