ART, SCIENCE, MECHANICS, AND ENGINEERING. 207 ot tlie wrist. 3d, The chief pronators of the hand are, 1st, the pronator teres ; 2d, the pronator quadratus ; and 3d, the flexor muscles. 4 th, The three supinators of the hand are, 1st, the supi- nator longus ; 2d, supinator brevis; and 3d, the biceps. 5th, The three extensors of the fingers are, 1st, extensor communis digitorum ; 2d, extensor primi digiti ; and 3d, extensor minimi digiti. 6th, The three extensors of the thumb are, 1st, the ex- tensor primus pollicis ; 2d, extensor secundus pollicis ; and 3d, extensor tertius pollicis. 7th, The three flexors of the thumb, are, 1st, flexor digitorum sublimis ; 2d, flexor digitorum profun- dus ; and 3d, the flexor longus pollicis. All the muscles that arise from the inner knob or condyle of the humerus or arm-bone, are flexors ; but from the external condyle, they are extensors ; those inserted into the radius turn the wrist, by rolling the' radius on the ulna. Their mechanism and action aro beautiful, simple, and perfect. We will now pass on to the muscles of the ribs, and respiration. The whole of the back is covered with strong muscles related to the arm, ribs, and spine ; but the muscles appropriated to the ribs, which perform no other function than respiration, are, 1st, The serratus posticus superior, which comes from the neck, ex- tends over the ribs and pulls them downward. 2d, The serratus inferior posticus, which comes from the vertebra} of the loins lies flat on the lower portion of the back, and pulls the ribs downwards. 3d, The twelve levatores costarum, which arise from the transverse processes of each vertebra of the back • and each muscle going down to the rib below, raises it up when in action. 4th, The intercostal muscles, external and internal fill up the spaces, crossing each other betwixt the ribs, and raise and depress the chest in respiration; to these may be added the triangularis sterni, a muscle that lies within the chest, and pulls the ribs downward. The muscles of the ribs arc appro- priated to respiration, and unite their functions with the dia- phragm and muscles of the abdomen ; but in coughing, sneezimr speaking, smelling, die., there are other muscles also brought into action besides these, belonging to the locally affected or mutated parts; and, whether individually or combined, display the infinite goodness, power, and wisdom, of our great Creator human'bo f accomPlisllillg tlje mechanism and utility of the' , Th°re, seven Posterior muscles of the head and neck yet undescribed ; 1. Splemus ; 2. Complexes ; 3. Trachelo-mastoid- e s 4. Rectus minor ; 5. Rectus major ; 6. Obliquus-superior ; /. Obliquus inferior The splenius, acting singly, turns the head obliquely to one side ; but when both act, they pull the head downward The complexus and trachelo-mastoideus, rectus ™J°r ml! m!r!0r’ Perform "early the same action as the sple- mus The obliquus superior and inferior, perform the short Sirx,ti,e he*d; *“,he,e w,'I1*1 now Pr<>ceed to the posterior muscles of the trunk bark in P°rtion °f the flesh>’ substance of the lm .^uadratus lumborum, keeps the trunk erect, inclines e i l! '/TS lt 0n ltS aaiS’ PU“S d0Wn the ribs- a"d ^sists jespiration , 2. Longissimus dorsi keeps the trunk erect and bends the spine backward ; 3. Sacro-lumbalis, takes a firm hold rL^SV°r?’-v them down, but also assists in ' Vhl8‘1rl'nki 4; Cen’icalis descendens, turns the neck to trarhll6 and*beilds U ; ,5' Trai,sversalis colli lies between the trachelo-mmstoMeus and cervicalis descendens. side °/the back-botwixt tIie bulge of the ribs on each noint. r nCh ' C?S‘StS °f innunicrable hollows, processes, and filled I?*’ a“d 13 *led fr°m P0int t0 P°int- and its hollows hlled. wuh unequal bundles of tendon and flesh. The 1st bundle dorsindIMUt0 itW° f!tS’ flIed sPinalis cervicalis, and spinalis raise! rtT alonS the whole length of the neck and back, and the 3d , bUnd‘e is Called semi-spinalis dorsi ; forward t fni! SP"‘*• keeps the spine from bending too much are usef,/ 4th a"d 5th’ lnter-transversnlis, and intcr-spinalis, motions ef “ assisting us to perform the lateral and twisting otions of the loins. There arc other two bundles called inter- 52rCrH' anJ Pri°rcs-lateralis, which complete the t ic thS 1 “ thcS°/tiUf'eS ronder the back firm! smooth, clothe w?th flesh P°WerfUl’ bUt eSpCcial'y the spinc> wbicb they arej StiI1, °ther. five musc,es- lying on the fore part of nlete the Tt ^b,®h 1 maT briefly mention, as thev com- plete the catalogue of the muscles belonging to the spine : 1st, Rectus internus capitis major ; 2d, Rectus internus minor ; 3d, Rectus capitis lateralis; 4th, Longus colli ; 5th, Scalenus! The first four muscles pull the neck to one side when acting single ; but when acting double, they bend down the neck and head. The scalenus, in asthmatic patients, throws the head backward, that the chest may be more powerfully raised in coughing. Hie muscles of the abdomen or belly are five on each side. 1st, The obliquus externus on each side, covers all the abdomen with its fleshy belly, and also the forepart of the abdomen with its white expanded tendon. Its fibres run obliquely from above, downward, and inward. 2d, The obliquus externus arises chiefly below in the haunch-bone, and all its fibres run from below upward. 3d, The transversalis lies under all the other muscles next the abdominal cavity. Its fibres run across and round the abdomen. 4th, The rectus runs on the fore part of the belly, in a straight line from the os pubis, or share-bone, to the ster-' num, or breast-bone. 5th, The pyramidalis is named after its shape, being pyramidal in form. It is a small neat conical muscle, arising from the os pubis, and having its apex turned upward. In some subjects this muscle i3 wanting. These five abdominal muscles make the external covering for the belly, and by taking a firm hold of the pelvis (or basin) and trunk they support and contain the bowels. They also bend and turn the trunk, and fix it firmly for the stronger action of the limbs. They keep the body steady in raising weights, bearing loads and, alternately with the diaphragm or midriff, (an internal muscle which separates the abdomen from the chest,) they perform respiration. When the diaphragm presses down the bowels and enlarges the thorax or chest, we perform inspiration by drawing in our breath ; when the abdominal muscles react and push back the diaphragm, the chest is compressed, and expiration, or letting out a breath, is accomplished. The abdominal muscles assist in emptying the bowels, expellin" the child from the womb, and promote the circulation o! the blood. But sometimes under these accumulated labours they give way, and burst frequently near the groin ; and the bowels, protruding through the interstices of the muscular fibres, and enlarged natural passages, form hernia, or rupture, which is a very frequent attendant on old-age—especially in men who have often endured violent exercise, such as straining, pulling, raising heavy weights, and carrying oppressive loads.*° Ihe two oblique muscles on one side, when in action, turn the body on its axis. But when they act on both sides, they co- operate with the rectus muscle in flattening the belly, and bend- ing the body. The transverse muscles tighten the linea alba, a tendon which I am now about to describe. The recti muscles pull the ribs downward in breathing, flatten the body, and bend it forward. I will now briefly notice a few other parts of the abdomen before I conclude the present essay. 1st, The linea alba is the common meeting of all the white thin flat tendons of the abdominal muscles in the centre of the belly, and forms the point toward which they all act. 2d, The linea semilunaris, is a white circular line, produced by the meeting of all the ten- dons of the abdomen on the edge of the rectus, to form its sheath, and is called the sheath of the rectus muscle. 3d, The umbilicus, or navel, is an opening in the centre of the belly, or the middle of the linea alba, through which the nourishing ves- sels have passed between the foetus in utero, and the mother. These vessels in the adult degenerate into a ligament, which sometimes bursts, and forms umbilical hernia by the protrusion of the bowels. 4th, The inguinal ring of the abdominal muscles is an opening near the lower part of the belly above the pubis and groin, through which the spermatic cord passes in men, and the round ligament of the womb in women. It is formed by an oblique split in the tendon, commencing about an inch and a half above the pubis; and the spermatic cord in males (which passes through it), is formed by the vessels belonging to the testicle. 5th, The cremaster muscle is a thin slip of fibres coming from the internal oblique muscle, for suspending the testicle and draw- ing it up. It generally grows more fleshy with advancing old age. It is very large in dogs, and other animals in whom the weight of the testes require powerful support. Umbilical her- nia, or rupture at the navel, is more frequent in females than « I lately saw a case of abscess in an old man’s groin, which a parochial sur- geon mistook for rupture, and caused a truss to be placed over it. When the abscess was opened, nearly a pint of matter was discharged.