— ART, SCIENCE, MECHANICS, AND ENGINEERING. 615 the pile: it goes far towards explaining what is generally called the intensity of current electricity, as well as why it is, that a pile, which produces powerful physical effects, may be extremely ineffective in the production of chemical or physiological effects, and reciprocally. 95. Adopting this mode of measurement, M. Pouillet has made some important experiments, and drawn some highly valuable conclusions, which it would not be proper to pass over. The voltaic instruments employed by him were the constant piles discovered by M. Becquerel in 1829, in which he employed two metals, and two fluids separated by a dia- phragm. The intensities of the currents were measured by two different instruments, one called the compass of tan- (tents, the other the compass of sines; and for very feeble currents, these compasses had a multiplier instead of a simple circuit. 96. In order to ascertain the different degrees of diminu- tion, which the intensity of a current, developed by a single pair, suffers, when it traverses circuits of different lengths, pieces of wire of copper, platinum, silver, iron, &c., covered with silk, and proceeding each from a similar piece of metal, were drawn out with such care that the diameter of each wire was sensibly the same through the entire of its length ; from each piece were cut five smaller ones of different lengths, and with each series the following experiments were made :— The current produced by the voltaic pair was made to tra- verse the compass directly, and the deviation was observed ; it was afterwards made to traverse in succession each of the five wires, the corresponding deviation being carefully noted. 97. Many experiments made with the series described, as well as various others made with w)res of different kinds, having led to the same result, Pouillet derived from them the' following general law:—“ The intensity of the current pro- duced by a single pair, is in an inve rse proportion to the real length of the circuit.” Some analogous experiments have demonstrated that the resistance of the single pair, or the primitive length of the circuit, is expressed by lengths which are proportional to the section, and to the conductibility of the wire which composes the apparentllength of the circuit. 98. Inasmuch as the intensity of the current measured by the apparatus is in an inverse proportion to the real length of the circuit, we may draw this important conclusion, that the current produced by a single elementary pair, is capable of constant electro-dynamic effect; for the influence that is remarked on the magnetised needle, arises only from a certain fraction of the real length of the circuit. But if that influence be increased tenfold—say the real length of the circuit—this fraction becomes ten times as small, and, at the same time, we obtain only one-tenth of the intensity; it is, therefore, clear, that in the two cases, we should obtain equal degrees of intensity, if it were possible, under similar conditions, to cause the total length of the circuits to act on the needle. 99. This must be considered quite a fundamental princi- ple in theory, inasmuch as it demonstrates that the peculiar agency which constitutes the current, may .be assimilated to a quantity of motion which must continue constant whatever may be the extent of the mass through which it is transmit- ted. Thus, if the two poles of a voltaic pair be connected by a wire of one inch, or by one of one thousand inches, neither more nor less electricity passes in the one case than in the other—the quantity that does pass, remains always constant, and depends altogether for its supply on the combination itself, or upon the electric source, whatever it may be. 100. When two points of a circuit, traversed by any cur- rent, are touched by the extremities of a metallic wire, the current must be divided at those points—one portion con- tinuing to pass along the circuit as before, and the other taking the direction of the wire. This second portion may be called “ derived currentthat portion which passes between the points of derivation, “ partial current;” the undivided current, which passes before and after the points of deriva- tion, may be designated “ principal current;” and the cur- ginal rent transmitted before any derivation was made, current ” 101. The following general laws have been deduced from the results of experiments upon the intensities of the derived, partial, and principal current:— 1st, Upon a derivation being made, the intensity of the original current is increased; thus, the principal current is always stronger than the original. 2d, The intensity of the derived current is proportional to the distance of the points of derivation. 3d, At an equal distance, the intensity is in an inverse pro- portion to the section, and conductibility of that portion of the circuit in which the derivation is made. 4th, The sum of the intensities of the partial and derived currents is always equal to the intensity of the principal current. 102. It has been further shown that the principles demon- strated for one elementary pair, apply with equal force to a pile composed of any number of pairs; and it has also been,' ascertained, upon placing several elementary pairs pole to pole, and thus forming a pile with great surface, and a single element, and connecting the two positive and two negative poles of two such elementary combinations, whose injnvidual intensities had been previously ascertained, that, in g&ch case, the individual currents of the two elementary combinations join and superpose themselves in some way, without any par- ticular modification. This result is important, for it shows that when a wire is traversed by a curreht pf a certain ten- sion, it is not less fitted for the transmissigp of another cur- rent, even though originating from a sopifceVof less intensity, which may be taken to afford fresh proof, that the currents are assimilated to certain quantities-of motion, and that it is not requisite to consider electri(yfconductors as a species of tube affording passage to a fluid,,-and presenting an increased resistance in proportion to their increase of length, so that the fluid diminishes in velocity or quantity, and is forced either to reflow toward its'source, or, at all events, to be accumulated in a greater/jjroportion. 103. A general view/of the experiments referred to in the preceding sections, lgads to the two following laws, which are of singular simplicity:— 1st, An electric source is capable of a constant electro- dynamic effect, /natever may be the length, section, and con- ductibility of /he metallic circuit that its current has to traverse. 2d, Whey several electric sources are connected, their cur- rents join/or superpose themselves without modification. 104. The results of experiments, already very numerous, appear/to warrant the conclusion, that an electric source is capab)4 of developing a constant quantity of heat; and that it is possible to calculate by quantities of heat, or of ice melted, the quantities of electricity evolved by voltaic combinations, or other electric sources. ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY. / CHAPTER XYI. liebig’s theory of respiration. In the article on “ the circulation,” it was explained, that in the higher classes of animals, the blood was sent through lungs, so as to be exposed to the air, in the intervals between the times in which it was circulated over the body. It was also shown how the heart, and arteries, and veins were modified, in various ways, in order to bring the blood conveniently in contact with the atmosphere. In the last article (p. 551) the quantity of air used was stated; and it was pointed out, of how much importance it is, in building halls or dormitories, to calculate their size, so that their cubic contents may cor- respond with the respiratory necessities of those who are to occupy them.