502 THE IMPERIAL JOUPvNAL OF By cutting into the tunica sclerotica, or outer fibrous pro- tecting covering of the eye, the reader will perceive imme- diately subjacent a dark membrane covered outside and inside with a pigment. This membrane is the choroid; it is extremely vascular, and through it at the back part, as likewise through the sclerotica, the optic nerve passes into the interior of the eye. Let the dissector now remove a portion of the choroid with his scissars and forceps, and underneath he will find that layer of nervous matter called the retina, in immediate connection with the optic nerve, thought.by some to be an expansion of it, and constituting the most im- portant part of the organ of vision, for whose protection indeed all the other parts are formed. Before considering the uses of all these parts, let the reader proceed with, his dissection, for without having first seen its structures, it is quite impossible for him rightly to comprehend any discussion on the uses of these structures. If he now scrapes off a small portion of the layer called the retina, he will find that it is supported by a rounded very considerable mass, of a perfectly transparent substance like jelly or melted glass; hence called the vitreous humor, and more recently by De Blainville, the vitrine of the eye. This substance is enclosed in a membrane also perfectly trans- parent. Thus, passing through successive layers of membranes placed over each other, like the layers of an onion, the dis- sector arrives at the transparent humors filling up the interior of the eye-ball, and composing by far the greater part ol it. These humors are three in number, viz., the aqueous, the chrystalline, and the vitreous. The best way to examine them is to make an opening into the transparent lamina called the cornea, whence the aqueous humor will immediately escape; its quantity and appearance may thus be estimated and un- derstood—next cut away the whole of the cornea, and thus expose the moveable circular curtain called the his ; in the centre of the iris will be found an opening which is circular in man, but not quite so in the eye of the sheep. This opening is called the pupil of the eye, and is spoken of in common language as if it were a real existing body, whereas it is merely an opening in the iris. By passing a probe through the opening the dissector touches the capsule of the lens or chrystalline humor; now, to get a satisfactory view, of the lens and vitreous humor, let him cut away ail the tunics when these humors will be left on the table, connected together by their tunics, and freed from all other connections. Two views of the lens or crystalline humour, prepared so as to show its singular fibrous laminated structure. It were easy to have multiplied figures of the structures of the eye, but with no probability of enabling the reader to understand structures he has not looked at and handled. With a single remark, then, I shall close this section, intend- ing in the next to examine more minutely, that is, in fact, physiologically, into the uses of all the structures here spoken of. Whilst dissecting the eye of the sheep, ox, horse, or dog, or indeed of most quadrupeds, the dissector will observe, besides many other specialities peculiar to each species of animals, that a portion of the choroid towards the bottom of the eye, or its inner surface, has a bright metallic lustre; this appearance is called the Tapetum, and it is this which gives to the eyes of these animals the power of glaring in the dark, or when the most obscure light is present. Man has no such structure, and therefore his eyes never glare. The lachrymal apparatus of the eye is shown in Plate II., fig. 5. We shall explain, in next section, the physiology of this organ, and some of the peculiar diseases to which it is liable. DESCRIPTION OF A PORTABLE DIORAMA. BY GEORGE TAIT, ESQ., ADVOCATE. The diorama, the ingenious invention of the celebrated French artist Daguerre, is a painting, fitted up so as to receive light both in front and behind; by the full or partial admission, or the total exclusion, of either of which lights a great variety of effects may be produced. No light is admitted to the eye except that which proceeds from the painting. The diorama is usually executed on an extensive surface of canvas, and placed in a large building fitted up for the pur- pose. It occurred to Mr. Tait that it might be made upon a much smaller scale; and, accordingly, (before the publication of Daguerre’s description,) that gentleman constructed, for the reception of sketches in water-colours which he painted for the purpose, a small box, having, for the admission of light before and behind, openings capable of being closed by moveable shades, and having also a small opening in front, through which the sketches might be viewed. Upon trying a variety of sketches in this apparatus, he found that many pleasing and striking effects might be produced: for example, passing gleams of sunshine; day melting into moonlight; day fading into darkness, followed by morning gradually disclosing the land- scape, having its former verdure shrouded in snow. For this ingenious and elegant contrivance, Mr. Tait was honoured with the medal of the Scottish Society of Arts. In Vol. I. p. 613, an account was given of a modification of the apparatus, by which the pictures, being placed in front of the box, were exposed uncovered, so as to be viewed by a num- ber of persons at a time. This was a decided improvement on the first arrangement; but still there are certain advantages in point of striking effect attending the original form, which render it worthy of being described in detail, while taking occasion to present to the reader some of the inventor's observations on the management of the apparatus, the prepara- tion of the pictures, and proper light to be used. i.—THE BOX. Stretching frames are to be prepared for receiving the paper or linen on which the pictures arc to be executed; and as these are confined within the inner edges of them, the frames ought to be made thick and narrow, so as not unnecessarily to in- crease tire width of the box, and should be bevilled off to allow access to the brush in painting the back. Those frames are inserted in succession through a slit in the top of the box, about two-thirds distant from the front, and are received into a groove projecting from the top, sides, and bottom of the box, of such a breadth as fully to cover the front of them. Two openings, one above in front and the other behind, ad- mit the light; and both should be as large as possible. The front opening ought to be of the form seen in the figure, in order to admit the light gradually; an erect right-angled tri- angle, with its base across the breadth of the box, being placed immediately behind the front opening to aid this object. The openings have a ply of fine tissue-paper, Persian silk, or other appropriate material, placed over them, to diffuse the light- This is moveable and is usually white, but may be of an or- ange, purple, blue, or other tint for particular purposes; and one or two plies may be used according to circumstances. The shades for the openings may be made to open and close in any manner found convenient, but so as to exclude all light when closed. The small opening in the front, through which the pictures