THE IMPERIAL JOURNAL OF 4o0 and their extraordinary mineral development. In Scotland, the ( truncated edges of the schists are almost everywhere overlaid by old red sandstone, and we have no really authenticated repre- | sentations of the Silurian rocks of Shropshire and the adjacent counties of Montgomery, Denbigh, Carmarthen, and Pembroke, though such occur in Ireland, and on various parts of the conti- nent of Europe, and in the United States of America. Regarded as an aggregate, the rocks of the Silurian system are less slaty than those of the older schist, and consist of free- stone, flagstone of various colours, calcareous sandstone, argil- laceous limestone and shale, and average from 7000 to 8000 feet in thickness. These rocks have been divided into four groups, named ac- cording to the places where the prevailing characters of each formation is most perfectly exhibited—namely, the Ludlow, Wen- lock, Caradoc, and Llandeilo rocks. These form what are termed the upper and lower Silurian rocks, and their charac- ters and order of succession are explained in the following table:— Uri'KR SiluIhan Rocks. Ludlow. T Upper j Ludlow. J Aymestry \ limestone. Prevailin'? Lithological Characters. > Micaceous grey sand- f stone. ]- Arg: illaceous limestone . } 2600 < Lower Ludlow. ) Shale, with concretions j of limestone. J L C Wenlock Concretionary » limestone, f stone. ■\Venlock. ^ lime-^ [_ ^shale?^ | Argillaceous shale. j V 1S00 Organic Remains. Marine molluscs, of almost every order, the Bra- cliiopodous most abundant. Ser- [ ■ pula,Corals,Sin- mid fish, Fuel, L (seaweeds.) Marine molluscs of varionSQrders as before. Crus- taceans of the Trilobite family. No vertebrated animals or plants Lower Silurian Rocks. f 'j Flags of shelly lime-"! . alg Moauscsf Caradoc. <! CT(d°L !> ^ TV.® V 2500 <! chiefly Brachie- j sandstones, j thick bedded white j j p0(jous an(i Xri- [_ j freestone. J ^ lobites’ f Crinoideans, Cor- ■ als, Molluscs, Llandeilo ’ ( flags. Llandeilo > Dark coloured calcarc- I loryi-f Molluscs andTri- j ous flags. i " t lobites. I11 describing these, we shall, according to our usual method, proceed from the lower to the higher strata, that we may the more effectually convey to the reader that clear and distinct view of the operations of Nature, whilst introducing organic ex- istence into our planet, which is one of the great objects of these papers. In the Cambrian or slate rocks only a very few fossils have been discovered, perhaps not more than thirty species. “ It may surprise,” says Professor Philips, “ the speculators in cos- mogony to hear, that these, the most ancient forms of life known lo us, should not be plants, but animals ; not merely zoophytes, hut conchifers ; not the lowest grades of their respective classes, but perfectly developed lamelliferous zoophytes and brachiopodous molluscs. Whether at the time of the formation of these ancient rocks in the sea, plants were growing on the land ; whether indeed there were any land, wTe must not even conjecture ; that plants might be growing in the sea which nourished the shells and zoophytes of Snowdon, is a probable but not a certain inference, since seaweeds do not alone constitute the food of conchifers and zoophytes.” We shall now notice the different members of the system in their order. 1. The lowest member of the Silurian system, the Llandeilo flags, consist of hard, dark, gray-coloured flags, often calcareous in their composition, together with sandstone and arenaceous or clay schists, with veins of calcareous spar. It is in this portion of the Silurian rocks, where the trilobites make their first ap- pearance, a family of extinct crustaceans, the history of which tends to throw considerable light on the ancient condition of our earth. Of these singular creatures, the Llandeilo flags present us with five genera comprehending 11 species. 2. The Caradoc sandstone appears in large mountain masses in the counties of Montgomery and Denbigh. In Carmarthen- shire there is a singular tract which exhibits some very ex- traordinary contortions of the strata of this portion of the sys- tem, which is readily determined by the great abundance of penta- meri and other characteristic fossils ; “ while the proofs of plu- tonic action appear in the existence of planes of cleavage, distinct from, yet nearly resembling those of, stratification, and in some cases, even cutting through the organic, remains. These cleav- age planes are always parallel, while the surfaces of the beds are often curved. There is no spot indeed, Mr Murchison remarks, in which the distinctions between cleavage and joints are better defined than in this rugged tract.” “ It is facts like this,” con- tinues a writer in the Edinburgh Review, “ which lead us to doubt whether some of the slaty masses now called Cambrian, may not have been originally Silurian rocks, in which the char- acters have been either wholly or in part defaced by plutonic action.” The organic remains of the Caradoc sandstone are much of the same character as those of the Llandeilo flagstones. 3. Wenlock Shale.—This formation consists of clay- shale of a dull gray, or olive colour, containing concre- tions of earthy limestone. The only crustaceans in this formation are the Asaphus caudatus, and Longi cauda- tus, two new species: the first is figured on the mar- n.jn A. Caudatus. 4. The Wenlock limestone ranges in Shropshire for about twenty miles from south-west to north-east, with the escarpment of the Aymestry limestone running nearly parallel to it at the dis- tance of about a mile. Both limestones are prominent while the intervening shales have been denuded owing to their greater softness. This limestone and that of Dudley are equivalent. It consists generally of large concretionary masses of pure lime- stone, frequently crystallized into calcareous-spar, denominated “ ball-stones,” which are separated by intervening layers of coarser dullish-gray calcareous matter, called “ measures.” The spar is commonly white, but sometimes of a beautiful pink colour. The "ball-stones” are sometimes thirty feet in diameter, and are used as a flux at the adjoining iron-works. The Wen lock and Dudley limestones are remarkable for the number of coralline remains which they contain. Of these 35 genera, comprising 70 species, have beeri described. The multitude of these remains—which are also common to the contempor- aneous limestone of Eifei—-together with their mode of aggregation, have, indeed, suggested the notion of these rocks being in fact anci<h*t coral reefs. Perhaps the most abunN, dant and characteristic of the or- ganic forms exhibited is the chain- coral, called systematically Cateni- pora escharoidcs. 5. The loiuer Ludlow Rocks.— These form the basis of the upper Silurians, and consist of sandy shale and flags of a dark-gray, or liver colour, with concretions of earthy limestone. It is in these beds where the remains of fishes are first found. Trilobites also occur in this and in the two superior members—namely., the Aymestry limestone, and upper Ludlow rock. 6. Aymestry Limestone.—The limestone measures generally about 50 feet in thickness, and is of an argillaceous subcrystalline character, and of a blue or deep gray colour. It forms an excellent cement under water. 7. Upper Ludlow Rock.—This member consists of thin beds of soft subcalcareous sandstone ; gray and greenish, sometimes pas- sing into limestone, but near the top scarcely distinguishable from the lower beds of the old red sandstone, except by its fos- sils. These beds are seen emerging from beneath the old rod sandstone strata along a zone or band, extending from the hills near Ludlow, on the north coast, to the sea cliffs at the south- i west extremity of Pembrokeshire, a distance of about 150 miles. I The Lingula cornea is common to the upper part of this groupe, I and to the lowest or tilestone beds of the old red sandstone, and j a short distance below the junction is a stratum of great interest | from its abounding in the confused remains of fishes, which Dr j Lloyd of Ludlow was the first to discover and bring into notice, j The remains in the central portion of the upper Ludlow are un- usually perfect. In the fine argillaceous shales, known provin- ! cially as “mudstones,” from their tendency to dissolve into nuid,