ART, SCIENCE, MECHANICS, AND ENGINEERING. 499 j shaft; divide a b into any number of equal parts, a a, a b, . . . and also b c into the same number of equal parts, B 1, 12, . . . draw the horizontal linesa/, b g, . . and draw other lines from the points 1,2, . . slanting towards a, to meet the horizontal lines re- spectively at the points/, g, h, . . that is, the line drawn from 1 ■ towards a, to meet the line a f at the point f, the line from 2 to- | wards a, to meet b g at g, and so on ; the points b, c, d, c, and f, thus found, will be points in the contour of the shaft, and by joining them into one bent line, a/g hi h c, tills line will be the contour, or entasis, as it has been termed, of the column. Bnt suppose that less swell or bulging is to be given to the shaft; then, in fig. 2, divide a b, as before, into a number of equal parts, and b c into two ciual parts at d ; divide d c into as many equal parts as a b ; then' proceed, exactly as in fig. 1, to find the points f, g, h, i, k, in tha contour. This will obviously bring the outline nearer to a straight line from a to b. In this figure, e f is sup- i posed to be the a sis or centre line of the column ; e g and e a [being the semi-diaiieters at the bottom, and f n, f c, the semi-dia- meters or radii at (the top. To explain a third mode of determin- ing the entasis of ‘the shaft : on a g, as a chord, describe the circular arc a o g,| proportionally less than a semicircle, as the swell is intended to* be less ; from the point n draw the vertical line n p, parallel, of coifrse, to e f ; divide the are g p into any number I of equal parts, g 1,12, 23, . divide the altitude e f into the same ' number of equal j irts; through the points of division draw the horizontal lines /1, s m, hn, . . , and draw the vertical parallel lines, 1 l, 2 m, 3 n . . , meeting the others respectively at the points I, m, n, 0, p ; the curve line drawn through these points will be the entasis o ’ the column. In many instance 5 the shafts of columns are not finished with plain round surfaces ; their surfaces are frequently/ufeef, that is, indented by longitu linal flutes or grooves throughout the whole extent of the shaft The flutes, when cut are applied entirely round the shaft, anc their profile, which is shown by the section, of the column, taken h irizontally, is generally an arc of a circle, equal to or less than the se ni-circumference. There are two var ieties of fluting represented in profile in figs. 3 and 6, Plate I., aid shown also in elevation by figs. 4, 5, and ] 7, 10. In Figs. 6 ajid 7, it will be observed, that the flutes are 1 regularly separated by fillets , while in figs. 3 and 4, no such in- Itervention exists ; the flutes meet each other edge to edge, and form a sharp angle or arris at their junction ; the intervention of the fillets, as they strengthen the projecting angles, permits of the flutes being cut much deeper than when they follow each other consecutively. The cjrcumferences of fluted columns are always measured, in the one case, over the exterior surfaces of the fillets, and, in the other, over' the angles formed by the flutes. 1 To describe the flutes of a column without fillets : let a b, fig. 3, be the diameter of the-.shaft at the lower end ; bisect a b at a, and describe the semicircle a e f b ; draw a d and b c perpen- dicular to a b, and d clparallel to a b, touching the circle : draw also deg and c f g to the centre ; divide the semi-circumference into half as many equal part* as there are flutes in the whole circumfer- ence ; more particularly} let there be twenty flutes in the circum- ference, then ten of these are due to the semicircle a e f b, and they ought to be so disposed as to have nine of them whole, and the tenth divided between the two extremities a and b, in order that a flute may stand directly in front, as seen in the figure, where the line d c touches the circle} To this end, then, divide the are e f into five equal parts, and continue the division towards a and b, making two whole divisions and a half, as p d and d c, and c b. These points of division determine the arises of the flutes. To strike the form of the flute, describe arcs from the centres c and d, with the radius c d intersecting at e ; from e, with the same radius, describe the concave surfaefe c d ; this forms the flute—the same process is applied to find tlte others. Having drawn the concentric semicircle a b for the diameter of the shaft at the upper end, if radial lines bo drawn from the arises of the flutes in the circle a k f b towards the centre o, the points at which they meet the circle a b will be the arises of the fluting at the upper end of the shaft, which is described similarly to that at the bottom. The figure, as now completed, becomes a half plan of the shaft of the column. Fig 4 is a bottom elevation of the column, derived from the plan, as indicated by the dot lines; and fig. 5, is a top ele- vation. To describe flutes with fillets in the shaft of a column : Let a b, Fig. 6, Plate I, be the diameter of the column ; bisect it at o, md describe a semicircle, as before, upon the diameter a b ; draw i d and b c perpendicular, and d c parallel to a b, touching the circle; join n o and c o. I/'t there be twenty-four flutes in the circumference ; there will then be eleven whole and two half flutes in the semi-circumference, and five wholes and two halves in the quarter circumference. If, therefore, this space be divided into six equal parts, the points of division will be the centres from which the flutes are described, and, by running on the divisions to the points a and b, the centres for the whole semi-circumference will be ascertained, and will divide it into twelve equal arcs. Take any one of these arcs, f d, and divide it into five equal parts ; then with two of these parts as a radius, from each of tire aforesaid centres, describe a semicircle; this will be the section of the flute ; the flutes of the interior circle, representing the upper diameter of the shaft, are found by drawing radial lines, which appears sufficiently obvious from the figure. Figs. 7, 8, and 9, are elevations of the bottom of the column, as found from the plan by means of the dot lines ; fig. 9, represents the most usual mode of finishing the flutes at the bottom of the shaft; fig. 10, is the correspondin elevation of the upper end. In describing by Relative dimensions the proportions of each par- ticular order of architecture, it is desirable, for the sake of perspi- cuity and facility of reference, that in all the orders one common standard of measurement should be adopted, to which the propor - tional dimensions of all the parts of each order should be referred, being expressed in parts of that standard. For this purpose, the diameter of the shaft of the column at the base in each order, is taken as the standard of reference for all the parts or members of the particular order. The advantage of this is twofold, for, first, the proportions of an order are seen by a few glances : and, se- condly, the relative proportions of corresponding parts in different orders, are likewise readily ascertained. On this principle, we shall proceed in defining the orders separately. The diameter at the /base in each order is divided into 60 equal parts, denominated seconds, and constituting the scale of parts for the particular order; this affords a ready means of accurately noting the proportions, which are expressed in seconds and fractions of seconds when these ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY. CHAPTER XXV. TIIE ORGAN OF HEARING (CONTINUED).—OF VISION : SECTION I., THE ANATOMY OF TIIE EYE. In our last article we alluded to the practice of probing the eustachean tube in cases of obstruction, as well as of forcibly driving air into it with the view of removing the obstruc- tions. Many accidents difficult of explanation have occurred from this practice, showing the necessity of caution in operating upon a part so near the brain. In the cavity of the ear, called the tympanum, are placed the remarkable chain of small bones already spoken of. The uses of the cavity are not easily understood, and still less have physiologists been able to imagine what the functions of the chain of bones crossing the tympanum may be. Sonorous waves are propagated in the line of their original direction, regardless of all the inflexions of these bones; yet, generally speaking, when this cavity of the tympanum is diseased, hearing suffers. Matter collecting here gives rise to the most intense pain, until it find a vent somewhere. It is now admitted that sonorous pulsations reach the labyrinth or inner ear in three different ways: 1st, by the chain of bones ; 2d, through the osseous walls directly; 3d, across the tympanum, and therefore through the aerial medium found in it. Scarcely anything is known of the mode in which the auditory nerves themselves are affected by sounds. In the labyrinth there is a fluid or semi-fluid, or perhaps both, and probably through it the sonorous pulses reach the fibrils of the nerves. With a magnifying glass of ordinary powers, the nervous fibres of the ear may be well seen in the ear of fishes without any very troublesome dissection; but not of course the primitive fibrils, which require glasses of high power to be observed distinctly. In fishes also may be best observed those singular bodies termed otolithes, of ex- treme density, and an almost stony hardness in osseous fishes, soft and cretaceous in the cartilaginous kind, and in sharks and skate. These otolithes are represented in men merely by a few very fine crystals, and even these have neither been