THE IMPERIAL JOURNAL OF 294 that gas thrown daily into the atmosphere in Glasgow, cannot be less than 120,000,000 cubic feet. Every volume of carbonic acid gas produced renders five volumes of air unfit for respiration. Hence, in 24 hours, 439,385,100 cubic feet of air are rendered unfit for respiration, or in fact poisonous. Now, a base of four square miles, with a height of 100 feet, contains 44,605,000,000 cubic feet, of which 8,921,000,000 are oxygen gas. Consequently, in little more than 117 days, the whole oxygen in that space would be converted into carbonic acid gas, and every living being in Glasgow and it^ environs would be destroyed. Yet if we examine the atmosphere in Glasgow or its neighbourhood, we find it always to contain the usual volume of oxygen gas, and the proportion of carbonic acid gas never exceeds -jjjg^th of the volume of the atmosphere. This is a most important circumstance, upon which the healthiness of cities entirely depends. It is owing to a property which gases possess. Every gas is composed of particles which repel each other; but the particles of one gas do not repel those of another. The particles of oxygen gas repel the particles of oxygen gas ; and in like manner the particles of carbonic acid gas repel those of carbonic acid gas ; but a particle of oxygen gas does not repel a particle of carbonic acid gas. The conse- quence of this property is, that every gas diffuses itself equably through the whole atmosphere. The carbonic acid gas, formed in Glasgow and its neighbourhood, does not remain in Glasgow, but diffuses itself equably through the whole atmosphere ; and the atmosphere is so vast, that this quantity of carbonic acid gas, and millions of millions more, from other towns and cities, have no sensible effect in increasing the volume of that gas ; its quantity is also kept down by its absorption and decom- position by plants, which replace the oxygen as it is withdrawn, and prevent the ratios of the constituents of the atmosphere from changing much. 4. The fourth constituent of the atmosphere is the vapour of water. It varies much more in its proportions than any of the other constituents. It is well known that water evaporates at every temperature from zero to the boiling point, and that the rate of evaporation increases with the temperature. This evaporation is entirely confined to the surface, and is therefore proportional to the surface. It is promoted by wind, and in- creased by heat. If the quantity evaporated per minute from a given surface of water, at the temperature of 18°'5, be repre- sented by 2, the increase of evaporation as the temperature augments is shown by the following table :— atmosphere contains as much moisture as it can contain at that temperature. Such is the case sometimes in this country, and it is indicated by the circumstance, that when wet clothes are hung out to dry, they retain their moisture because the water with which they are wet cannot evaporate. Should the tumbler remain dry, as will generally be the case, we must cool it by filling it with water colder than the air. This, in summer, is easily got from wells or deep springs. In winter, we must cool the water with ice, or by a mixture of snow and salt. By allow- ing the cooled tumbler to heat, till water just ceases to be con- densed on it, and noting the temperature, we have the point in- dicating the elasticity of the vapour of water in the atmosphere. Dr Dalton drew up, many years ago, a table showing this elas- ticity at every temperature. The following table shows a few of these elasticities. Temp. Force of vap. in in. of mercury. Temp. Force of vap. in in. of mercury 32» 0-2 60 40 0-26 70 0-726 50 80 Many experiments have been made in this way in different places, to determine the quantity of vapour in the atmosphere in different parts of the earth. In Glasgow the greatest quantity of vapour exists in the atmosphere, in the month of August. The mean dew point (as the point at which moisture begins to condense on the tumbler is called,) is 50°, indicating an elasticity of 0'3766 inch. This amounts to about -g^th of the volume of the atmosphere. The smallest quanity is usually in the month of February, when the dew point is between 36° and 37°, indicating an elasticity of vapour amounting to 0 2314 inch : this amounts to nearly -iy0th *Iie volume of the atmosphere. But though the volume of vapour in August be much greater than in February, the atmosphere is drier in the former month than the latter because the dew point, 50°, is at a greater distance from the mean temperature of the month, than 36° is below the mean temperature of February. In some parts of the west coast of Africa, and in India, the atmosphere seems sometimes to contain no vapour, or very little. The mean dew point in Antigua, during July, August, and Sep- tember, is 74°’43. The highest dew point observed by Col. Sykes, in the Deccan, was 76°. The mean dew point was 60°’74, and the mean temperature 780,5. Thus, the air in India, though containing of its volume of vapour, is much denser than in Glasgow. Rate of Temp. evaporation. 18°-5 2 38 4 58 8 79'5 16 100 32 Rate of Temp. evaporatior 125° 64 150 128 180 256 212 512 ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY. So that if we fill a pan with water, and raise its temperature to 100°, it will take 16 times as long to evaporate, as it would do if heated to 212°. When water evaporates, it is converted into an elastic fluid, invisible likewise, and destitute both of taste and smell. But its specific gravity and its elasticity increase with the temperature. At 212° its elasticity is the same as that of common air,—hence the reason why water boils at that temperature. It is called steam at that temperature, and its specific gravity is 0'625, that of air being 1. If we force the particles of steam nearer each other than when they possess just the elasticity of the atmo- sphere, they give out heat, and are partly or wholly converted into water, according to the degree of pressure. The elasticity of vapour diminishes with the temperature. This elasticity is measured by height, which its pressure produces on a column of mercury in a barometrical tube. At 212° this height amounts to 30 inches ; at 180° it amounts to 15 inches ; at 150° to 7'5 inches; at 125° to 3'75 inches; at 100° to 1.875 inches, and so on. The quantity of vapour capable of existing in the atmosphere depends upon the temperature. How much is present at any time is easily ascertained by determining the temperature at which moisture is condensed, upon the external surface of a glass tumbler exposed to the air. If moisture be condensed on the tumbler when of the same temperature with the air, then the CHAPTER X. THE SKELETON. The Skeleton consists of the head, the trunk, and the extremi- ties. No explanation is needed to define the limits of the head. The trunk is composed of the spine, the ribs, the breast-bone, and the pelvis ; supporting the head upon its upper end, and resting its lower end on the heads of the thigh-bones. I lie ex- tremities are four—two superior, commonly called in man, the arms; and two inferior, commonly called the legs ; but, in strict anatomical language, the word leg is applied only to the part below the knee, the part above being always spoken of as the thigh ; and only the part above the elbow is called the arm, the part below being the fore-arm. We shall now examine these parts in succession more minutely. The Spine is the central column, resting on the pelvis and thigh-bones, and supporting the chest, the head, and the superior extremities. It is about one-third of the length of the whole body; so that in a man who stands six feet high, the spine wih be found about two feet long. It consists of twenty-four pieces, | or vertebra:, named from the Latin word vertere, to turn, on ac- ! count of their mobility. The largest is placed below, and they ! diminish gradually to near the top. Each vertebra is an irregular