550 THE IMPERIAL JOURNAL OF structure of the different organs. It has also parted with the oxygen or vital air which it held in combination. Now this black blood is calculated to produce death in two ways : first, it deprives the muscles of their power of contraction, and con- sequently stops the heart, which is a muscle; and secondly, it destroys entirely the action of the brain. The manner in which it produces death will be fully detailed in the article on that subject, under the head of ‘ Asphyxia.’ Respiration, then, is a contrivance by which the blood is brought into contact with the air, so as to permit these two fl aids to effect chemical changes upon one another ; and here we have to examine the structure of the lungs and the chest. Each lung may be compared to a bunch of grapes : it con- sists of an infinite number of little cells, each not larger than a millet seed, fixed upon footstalks ; each footstalk being a tube, a branch of the windpipe. When the air comes in through the windpipe, then all these air-cells become filled; and this is done by the heaving of the chest, which is called inspiration. When again the chest falls, the air-cells are partially emptied, but never completely, and the air which was in them is blown out by the windpipe : this is called expiration. The windpipe is a tube, consisting of eighteen or twenty cartilaginous rings, united by an elastic membrane ; it is connected to the back of the mouth, where the air enters it; it passes down the front of the neck, enters the upper orifice of the chest behind the top of the breastbone, and divides into two branches, one for the right lung, and one for the left. In the lung, the windpipe subdivides into a great mul- titude of branches, and these into little twigs, on which the air-cells are hung—it has already been said—like grapes upon their footstalks. These tubes and air-cells are lined with a delicate membrane, called mucous, on account of the mucus which moistens it ; and their coats become exceedingly thin, so that the air within them, and the blood without, can ex- ercise a chemical influence on one another through them. The pulmonary artery, which brings the dark blood from the right side of the heart, divides into two branches, one for each lung, and each branch subdivides into minute rami- fications, which spread themselves over and between the air-cells. The pulmonary veins take their commencement from the arterial capillaries on the surface of the cells, and unite with one another till two large ones are formed from each lung, which convey the red purified blood into the left auricle. The vesicles have been described as being fixed to the air- tubes, in the same manner as a bunch of grapes are fixed to the footstalk ; but here the similarity ends ; for the cells are so small, and so close together, that no interstices be- tween them can be perceived. Indeed, on looking at the surface of a lung, it seems to consist of an infinity of shin- ing points, which, on being examined more closely, are found to be the cells filled with air. After air has once got into the lungs, it can never be completely expelled: hence, the lungs of a person who has breathed always float in water ; and on this fact is founded the test used in criminal examinations, to distinguish a stillborn child from one that has breathed, where there is a suspicion of child-murder. In the accompanying figure, the front of the chest is repre- sented as cut off, so as to show the lungs without it. The windpipe is seen descending and dividing into its two branches, which are entering into the lungs; but the branches of the arteries and veins are omitted, because they would have made the small figure too complicated. Each lung is of a conical form—its base below, and its apex above—its base rests on the upper surface of the dia- phragm ; its apex reaches up into the root of the neck ; its back touches the spine; anditsfrontandouter parts are covered by the ribs. Towards the middle, the lungs are not in con- tact, being there separated by the space in which the heart lies. Each lung is divided by fissures into lobes, of which the right lung has three, and the left only two; the place of the middle lobe being occupied by the heart, which, it has already been stated, though in the middle, encroaches upon the left side. The whole lung, ex- cept the part where the windpipe and blood-vessels enter it, is covered by a thin smooth membrane called the pleura, which is represented in the last figure. It is a shut sac, having one layer investing the lung, and the other lining the walls of the chest, the walls of which are in contact, so that it forms a close bag; though in the drawing, for the sake of plainness, a space is represented between them. The pleura is moist- ened with a thin serous fluid, similar to that in the pericardi- um, which enables the lung and chest to glide upon one another in the action of breathing. This membrane is very liable to become inflamed, causing acute pain, and constitut- ing the disease called pleurisy. Sometimes a quantity of water is poured out into the cavity of the pleura, when the absorbent vessels do not take up what the arteries have poured out, and dropsy of the chest is the consequence. Sometimes after a chronic inflammation of the pleura, matter is formed, which presses on the lung, preventing it from per- forming its functions, and requiring to be let out by an inci- sion made in the chest, between the sixth and seventh ribs. When a child is born, its lungs are empty, and the sides of the chest are as much compressed as they can well be. Whenever it has got into the air, the elasticity of the ribs causes its chest to enlarge—the outer surface of the lung being in contact with the chest, accompanies it, and so a ten- dency to the formation of a vacuum is caused. The air now rushes down the windpipe, into what would otherwise he empty space, and thus the first inspiration is made, and when once made, it is repeated eighteen or twenty times per minute, during the whole course of our existence. The vacuum produced at first by the elasticity of the ribs can never be repeated,—the lungs never become emptied of the air that now fills them, but after a forced expiration, they are at their most empty state, and they can be filled again to the utmost by an exertion of muscular power. Over each side of the chest spreads a great muscle, which may be likened to a hand with outstretched fingers, laid on the chest, the fingers pointing downward and forward—only, instead of five fingers, it has nine indigitations. Each of these indigitations is attached to one of the nine upper ribs, and the back part of the muscle is fixed to the posterior edge of the shoulderblade. It is not seen sufficiently well in the plate of the muscles in Vol. I. for me to refer to it. From the direction in which the ribs are curved, first outward, then downward and forw'ard, any force acting on them from above