350 THE IMPERIAL JOURNAL OF rounded head of this bone they mistake for a tumour; the real nature of the complaint will be fully explained in a con- cluding article on the form and structure of the foot in man and woman. All the functions of the skin, and the importance of a due performance of these to the animal economy, are riot as yet well understood. The care bestowed bv the groom in cleansing, washing, and brushing the surface of the horse, after the severe toil of the chase or race, sufficiently proves its importance as regards the horse at least ; whilst in man, if the linens or body clothes he not frequently changed, the use of the bath seems absolutely essential for the mainte- nance of a healthy condition. In very cold countries, as in Russia, where the perspiration is so much checked, the vapour-bath has been considered as the sole means of pre- serving the population from a wide-spreading and desolating scurvy; and even in otherwise temperate climates, without due exercise, and some attention at least to cleanliness, scurvy and other cutaneous disorders arc apt to appear, espe- cially if salted food be at the same time used freely. But in warm and tropical climates, where the perspiration flows freely and without effort, strong exercise is not onlv not necessary for the European, but may be positively hurtful to’ him : no European can stand strong exercise in a hot climate. On theoretical, but by no means improbable grounds, it has been conjectured that peculiar states of the atmosphere may so check certain of the secretions of the skin as to throw them into the mass of blood, thus giving rise to symptoms resem- bling those produced by poisons. An extensive loss of skin by operations, ulcers, or scalds and burns, is always productive of much inconvenience to the sufferer. On the shins or legs, for example, a trifling loss of skin by ulcer or otherwise, disqualifies the person from being received as a recruit to serve in the army; and when the loss happens to be on the face, many ingenious at- tempts have been made to replace it, by substituting for the lost portion another cut from a less exposed part. In this way, lips have been restored—partially at least; and a lost nose replaced by a portion of the integuments of the forehead. It is extremely probable that many such operations would succeed in very young persons, which unfortunately fail in those more advanced in years. When portions of the skin have been stripped off by violence, but still adhere partially, the surgeon ought to make every attempt, in general bv re- placing the integuments so removed, by a few judicious stitches and very careful handling, to enable the skin so in- jured to recover its vital connexions with the surrounding parts. There is a plastic healing force in the young, which is not found in aged persons. Surgeons to manufactories, mines, &c., cannot be too cautious in such matters. THE SENSE OF TOUCH. Some remarks—which, however, must be brief—on the physiology of this sense, the sense of touch, may appropri- ately enough close this section. It is usual to consider the sense of touch as not confined to any particular part of the body, but extended over all. Even the internal organs are presumed to have a kind of sense of touch. This, I think, in their ordinary condition is very questionable. The sensitive nerves all over the body, whether belonging to the external integuments or not, are presumed to come from the posterior roots of the spinal nerves. But the fingers and toes in man, the extremitv of the proboscis in the elephant, the tongue and lips in many animals, the nose in the pig and tepir ; these are the parts fully invested with the requisite sensibility. Most headaches arise merely from the state of the external integuments of the head ; still there are others, as has been proved by dis- section, which have a deeper seat, thus showing that some parts of the brain are sensible whilst others are not. Sensations, as those of touch, may arise from two sources: they may arise either from irritation applied to the nerves, or from stimuli applied to their peripheral extremities; that is to the surfaces in which they terminate, whether these be the integuments or otherwise. Thus, the horny tissue and the teeth are quite insensible, and in the healthy state so are the bones, tendons, and cartilages. When diseased, the bones become acutely sensible. It is a curious fact, that the skin itself is not equally sensible throughout; two small bodies applied to the surface are not equally well recognised at every part as distinct from each 1 other ; the same happens in respect to temperature, and even to pressure. The sensibility of the inner surfaces or lining membrane of the windpipe and organ of voice, is very great; that of the mouth and of the gullet less so. The lining membrane of the intestines is not particularly'sensible; all which differ- ences may and probably do depend on peculiarities in the nerves distributed to the structures respectively. The sensation of a blow or shock may arise as well from internal as from external causes, or, in the language of metaphysics, may as well originate in a substantive affection as be occasioned by an objective reality. Thus, feeling is not the absolutely naked truth it is vulgarly supposed, since a body may be imagined to be felt, may be actually felt, by the person, and yet have no real existence. The'sense of touch then has its delusions like the others. The same remarks apply to the sensations of heat and cold, which are generally caused by external agencies; the burning heat and shivering cold of ague is of course entirely independent of any' such agencies, arising solely from inter- nal changes, and not remediable by any application of their opposites. A person in the cold stage of ague will continue to shiver though immersed over head in a hot bath; heat is not felt on the surface at that moment. What is called the muscular sense is a phenomenon not easily reducible to com- mon sensation; it was first observed by Detnot De Tracy. Thus, when we raise a vessel, with the contents of which we are not acquainted, the force we employ is determined by the idea we have conceived of its weight. In descending a stair also, the probable depth of the steps is accurately guessed at or conjectured. Should a step be found much deeper than what was calculated on, the body descends very rapidly', or rather falls, and the person may receive a severe shock. When a person ignorant of the weight of quicksilver first takes up a bottle containing a considerable quantity of it, he is extremely apt to let it fall, from a miscalculation of the muscular force requisite, precisely as in descending a stair and encountering a deeper step than was expected. But if the attention be previously roused to the danger, then the muscular forces are calculated to a nicety, and with in- credible rapidity ; for this, however, the use of sight is abso- lutely requisite. The sense of touch is subject to an illusion of an extra- ordinary kind, which cannot be corrected even by the sight; thus proving that the senses alone, unaided by the reasoning powers, are not to be trusted—cannot indeed be believed on all occasions. The illusion or delusion to which we allude attracted even the attention of Aris- totle, so early was it observed, nor to this day has it been fully explained. It is this :—“ If we place on a table, or on the palm of the hand, a marble or any other small globular body, and crossing it alter- nately with the fore and middle fingers, crossed so that the marble shall only touch the outer edges or surfaces of the two fingers, the person will believe