93 ART, SCIENCE, MECHANICS, AND ENGINEERING. Ptcrodai With huai And swim by night; their beaks were long, and armed with sixty sharp conical teeth, but their most remarkable character consisted in the excessive prolongation of the second toe of the fore foot, which was fully twice that of the trunk, and is supposed lus crassirostris—restored by Goldfuss. to have supported some menfbrane which enabled tl\ animal I by Dr. Mantell. The bones obtained by the Doctor indi- to fly. The fingers terminated in long hooks, like th(Acurved | cate the existence of an herbivorous lizard, allied in struc- ciaws of the bat; the form and size of the foot, leg, and thigh, show that it was'capable of standing either firmly on the ground, or of perching on the branches of trees. Dr. Bucklandr also conjectures that it had the Thus like Milton’s “ all quali- all elements,” the creature was kindred reptiles that swarmed upon the shores of a turbulent powers of swimmin fied for all services a fit companion in the seas or era planet. “ The fiend, Iteep, through strait, rough, dense, or rare, hands, wings, or feet, pursues his way, f sinks, or creeps, or flies.” “ With flocks of such like creatures flying in the air, and shoal? of no less monstrous Ichthyosauri and Plesiosauri swarming in the ocean, and gigantie crocodiles and tortoises crawling on the shores of the primeval lakes and rivers; air, sea, and land must have been strangely peopled in those early periods of our infant world.” Hylmosaurus (Weald Lizard). The lizard thus de- nominated by the discoverer, Dr. Mantell, was about twenjty-five feet in length, and is chiefly remarkable by allarge spiny process along the back, which must haveVgiven to such a creature a terrific appearance. Such process is found in many of the living lizards. Iguanodon.—The remains of this, the most gigantic of all reptiles living or extinct, were also made known to the world Tbe Iguanodon—restored. ture to the iguana of tl^> West Indies; seventy feet in length, and four and a half feef in circumference round the body. A thigh bone measures Three feet eight inches, and thirty- five inches in circumference) and the bones of the foot show it