94= THE IMPERIAL JOURNAL OF to have been six and a half feet in length. The nose of the animal was armed with a horn, equal in size, and resembling in form the lesser horn upon the nose of the rhinoceros, —an apparatus which also exists on the nose of the iguana. The teeth, some of which are two and a half inches in length, are deeply serrated, and their resemblance to those of the iguana, clearly demonstrate that, like it, it was of herbivor- ous habits. Besides the remains found in Talgate forest, in strata of the Wealden formation, Dr Mantell mentions the discovery of another at Maidstone, in an arenaceous or sandy limestone,called Kentish rag, belonging to the Shanklin sands. This rock, he observes, abounds in the marine shells, which are characteristic of that division of the chalk formation. In the quarry in which the remains of this Igtianodon were found, Mr Benson has discovered fossil wood by the boring shells, the lithodomi ; impressions of leaves, stems of trees, ammonites, nautili, &c.; large conical striated teeth, which are referrible to those extinct fossil fishes which M. Agas- siz denominates sauroid, or lizard-like; scales and teeth of several kinds of fishes, and among these a jaw or mandible of that singular genus of fish, the Chimera. The geological position of this specimen forms an excep- tion to what has been previously remarked of the fossils of the Wealden ; for, while the bones in the latter were asso- ciated with terrestrial and fluviatile remains only, the Maids- tone specimen is imbedded in a marine deposit. This discrep- ancy nowise affects the arguments as to the fluviatile origin of the Wealden; it merely shows that part of the delta had sub- sided, and was covered by the chalk ocean, whilst the country of the iguanodon was still in existence. The body of the igu- anodon was then drifted out to sea, and became imbedded in the sand of the ocean ; in the like manner, as at the present day, bones of land quadrupeds may not only be ingulphed in deltas, but also in the deposits of the adjacent sea. This specimen, continues the Doctor, clearly proves that the sepa- rate bones found in the strata of Talgate forest, and which I had assigned solely from analogy to the lizard tribe, have been correctly appropriated, and we obtain many in- teresting facts relating to the structure and economy of the original. I can but notice one of these inductions. As the iguana lives entirely on vegetables, it is furnished with long slender feet by which it is enabled to climb trees with facility in search of food. But no tree could have borne the weight of the colossal Iguanodon ; its movements must have been con- fined to the land and water, and it is evident that its enor- mous bulk must have required limbs of great strength. Ac- cordingly, we find that the hind feet of the hippopotamus, rhinoceros, and other large mammalia, are composed of strong- short massy bones, furnished with claws, not hooked as in the iguana, but compressed as in the land tortoises, thus form- ing a powerful support for the enormous leg and thigh. But the bones of the hands or fore-feet, are analogous to those of the iguana—long, slender, flexible, and armed with curved claws, the exact counterpart of the pail-bones of the recent animal, thus furnishing prehensile instruments fitted to seize the palms, arborescent ferns, and dragon-blood plants, which probably constituted the food of the original. Thus we have another interesting example of that admirable adap- tation of structure to the necessities and conditions of every form of existence which is alike manifest, whether our in- vestigations be directed to the beings around us, or to those which have long since passed away. We must defer entering upon a description of the other organic forms, peculiar to the secondary formations, till our next. *** (1) Scptarian : concretionary masses of limestone or ironstone, with in- tersecting veins of spar or iron pyrites. (2) Ceplialopoils : mollusca, which have their organs of progression and prehension arranged round the head like the nautilus and cuttle-fish. (3) Trigonia, a triangular formed bivalve; cerithium, a species of screw shell with a notched aperture; isocardia, a heart-shaped shell resembling the cockle (cardium). ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY. CHAPTER XVIII. OF DIGESTION. The stomach is a bag of a conical shape, the large end of which lies in the left side of the belly immediately beneath the diaphragm, and the small end at the hollow which is familiarly known as the pit of the stomach. It is bent, besides, on account of its passing across the spine; the concave border being di- rected backwards, and the convex border forwards. When the stomach is near- ly empty, the convex bor- der hangs downwards, and when filled, it rises forwards, producing sometimes a painful feeling of distension. This is most felt by persons who are troubled with flatulence after taking food. In such persons, if one finger be laid over the stomach, and struck with one of the other hand, it will sound like a drum, in consequence of the quantity of air which is contained within it. There is always, however, a certain quantity of gas in the stomach and whole course of the intes- tinal canal. The gullet enters the greater or left end of the stomach, and the small intestine commences at its smaller or right end. These two orifices are upon the same level, so that the food does not run out of the stomach, but can get out of it only by the contraction of its coats. These are muscular, as indeed are the coats of the whole intestinal canal, and are particularly strong at the smaller end, where they form a ring, which contracts, and completely closes the communication between the stomach and intestines. The stomach is lined with a velvety mucous membrane, similar to, and continuous with, that which lines the mouth and gullet. This membrane is full of minute blood-vessels, from which the mucous fluid is poured, whichserves at once to mingle with the food and assist its digestion, and to prevent the coats of the stomach from injury. Accordingly, when any irritating substance is swallowed, more mucus is immediately poured out, which envelopes it, and prevents as far as possible the evil consequences which might ensue. Besides the mucus, another fluid is poured into the stomach by its coats, which is called the gastric juice. This is a clear ropy fluid, of a saltish taste, possessing the power of dissolving all substances which are fit for food. It has no effect, however, on the living stomach; but we often find, on opening persons who have died suddenly, with a quantity of the gastric juice in the stomach, and no food, that the dead stomach itself has been dissolved, and that a large irreg- ular opening exists in its back part. After a meal, the stomach becomes agitated by a constant succession of gradual contractions, which turn the food gently from the left side to the right, and hack again, churning it and mixing it all well together, so that it acquires the ap- pearance of so much porridge or gruel, the different aliments that have been swallowed becoming so blended as to form a homogeneous mass of a grayish colour. It is turned back-