318 TIIE IMPERIAL JOURNAL OF do not bestow upon it that complete character usually called animal; by which is meant, the exercise of the organs of the senses, and of spontaneous motion from place to place, per- formed by the muscles and their appendages, the bones and joints ; of perception of bodies external to ourselves; of reflec- tion or thought, of which a specific or peculiar kind has been bestowed by the Almighty on every distinct species of animal, precisely adapted to its position in the great scale or scheme of creation ; in short, those organs and their functions by which the animal frame may avoid what is hurtful to it, and approach and seek what is calculated to give it pleasure. The organs of voice and speech are here included, and the division may be arranged as follows :— 1. Organs of sensation, The instruments of the senses : skin, tongue, nose, eves, ears, and the nerves leading from these to the brain and spinal marrow. 2. Of perception and ratiocination with consciousness, The brain. 3. Of perception and reflex action, but without consciousness, The spinal marrow. 4. Of muscular action, with con- sciousness, The muscles and certain nerves. 5. Of muscular action, but with- out consciousness, Certain muscles, with the nerves supplying them. G. Of voice, The larynx. Thirdly, The reproductive organs are considered as en- tirely distinct from these two great divisions, and are con- sidered apart, and merely in strictly professional works. If the reader now consider the above plan even in any of its great outlines, he will immediately discover the happy adaptation of the functions and organs bestowed on each of the great divisions of living bodies, that is, animals and vegetables. Let him figure to himself the gigantic oak clothed or endowed with muscular power, and, in brief, with the power of motion such as animals possess! not fixed and rooted to the soil, but stepping out in straight, lines, with or without reason, sweeping everything before it and render- ing the earth immediately uninhabitable by man! A forest set in motion affrightening the inhabitants of the earth! On the other hand,nearly every animal, at least those possessing high endowments of such sensibility, possess invariably the power of withdrawing from what is hurtful; and poets have described with much, though fanciful truth, the fate of a human being shut up in the form of a tree, rooted to the soil, sensible and alive, but incapable of motion. Such a state, could it exist, would be the most pitiable and lamentable of all. The organs of the senses, so valuable to all animals, but in an especial way to man himself, are usually reckoned five, from the days of Aristotle, the greatest Zoologist of all antiquity to the present day. Many very plausible argu- ments have been from time to time brought forward, en- deavouring to show that the organs of the senses must be more numerous than five, if not in man, at least in some other animals ; thus the surface of the human hips, the ex- panded integument of the arm of the bat, and the gelatinous, cylindrical shaped cavities found on the head of certain sharks, skate, and other cartilaginous fishes, have all been proposed as organs, exercising a new or a sixth sense, but the proofs of their being so, have never been fairly made out. By virtue of the peculiar properties of their several nerves, the senses are said to make us acquainted with the states of our own body, and they also inform us of the qualities and changes of external nature, as far as they give rise to changes in the condition of the nerves; but in so far us regards the states of our own body, this is true only to a certain extent. Of all, or any of our internal organs we can have no notion through our unaided senses; and the phenomena of pain and of uneasy feelings, excited in us generally by a derange- ment or disorder of the internal organs,— such sensations of pain, as they are usually called, are probably transmitted to the brain, the seat of consciousness, by a peculiar set of nerves adapted for this peculiar use or purpose. Sensation, no doubt, is a property common to all the senses, but the hind of sensation is different in each; and thus we have the sensations of feeling or touch, of taste, of smell, of hearing, and of seeing. But it must be carefully kept in recollection that the human mind cannot perceive the external world in any way whatever; all that we do perceive is merely a pro- perty, or change of condition, of our nerves ; now the im- agination and reason are ever ready to make us believe that when we touch a body foreign to ourselves, the mind actually perceives the body so touched, whereas we merely perceive in the brain the change produced on the extremity of the nerve which has mediately come in contact with the material structure touched. It is the same with sight and with all the other senses, and hence arose the celebrated proposition of Berkeley, Bishop of Cloyne, “ that as external agencies can give rise to no kind of sensations which cannot also be pro- duced by internal causes exciting changes in the condition of our nerves, so no proof is derived through our senses of the actual existence of any material world.” Before however proceeding further with the physiology of the senses, it is proper the reader have some idea of their mechanism or structure: and, first, of the organ of touch or feeling. The sense of touch is not confined to particular parts of the body of small extent like our other senses, but, in its more limited sense, it is usually confined to the external integuments of the body, and in an especial manner to the extremities of the fingers and toes. In man these parts are peculiarly delicate and sensible, and the integument covering the fingers is obviously endowed with high capabilities; these it owes to the nerves which place it in connection with the spinal marrow, and through it with the brain. STRUCTURE OF THE SKIN, AND OF ITS APPENDAGES. The skin, or external integument, is accurately moulded upon the body; it conceals the inequalities and clothes the whole frame with great beauty, particularly in children and in women. It is extensile and also retractile to a certain ex- tent ; it is a sudorific or expellent and secreting surface, by which matters are removed from the blood which it were dangerous to retain in it, or even on the surface, for any length of time. Nature visits with much severity the habitual neglect of cleanliness, and of a due change of linen, by the production of numberless cases of cutaneous disorders, still so frequent in Ireland and Scotland; whilst the sudden stoppage of the perspiration gives rise to dangerous internal disorders. In a word, it is by no means improbable that the matter, thrown out at every moment, by, and from the skin, is of so highly poisonous a character, that its retention in the body may give rise to fevers, cholera, and to plague itself. The skin has a free surface, and a fixed or adhering one; the free surface, or that exposed to the external atmosphere, is covered by a cuticle or scarf-skin, easily raised from it by blistering, and whose obvious use is to protect the more delicate nervous and vascular structures placed immediately beneath it. The particular nature of this scarf-skin or cut- icle will be more particularly explained a little further on. Beneath the scarf-skin is a layer of tissue, deeply coloured in the negro and other dark races; it is called the rete mucosum of Malpighi, after its discoverer, a celebrated Italian ob- server. Its presence has been often questioned in the European skin, but to us it seems to be present, although but slightly coloured; in the Albino of all races, the colouring portion of this mucous layer is clearly wanting altogether, but still the mucous layer itself may be present even in the Albino. The presence of this coloured layer of the integuments in the negro, must serve important purposes in his economy, for we observed that an Albino girl, born of Caffre parents, that is of jet black parents, w hom we saw at Van Aards on the Grootevisch Riviere, in Southern Africa, and on the borders of Kafferland, suffered nearly as much from the heat as any European; that is, the exposed parts