ART, SCIENCE, MECHANICS, AND ENGINEERING. 79 our will and our muscles ; but the muscles alone possess a con- tractile power, and employ it—nervous power is sometimes ex- hausted and apt to change ; muscular power is always perfect, and ready to act when stimulated, in obedience to our wiil—hut the muscles soon lose their contractile power, when deprived of sensibility by paralysis of their nerves. The involuntary muscles are mechanically stimulated without our control—the voluntary are put into action by the impulses of the mind, and are under our arbitrary commands. The nerves of feeling and motion in the extremities come from the spinal cord. The muscles of the body are double, and on each side equal in number, action, and power; the muscles on one side balance the muscles on the other. If on one side they are paralyzed, and cannot contract, those on the other, exerting their usual strength, destroy the balance of power—-in palsy of one side of the face, this fact is visibly illustrated. If a joint be dislocated, the action of the muscles is violent and spasmodic till it be reduced; nervous influence is therefore the stimulus of the voluntary muscles—mechanical agents stimulate the involuntary. If a man be suddenly killed, the irritable power of his muscles sur- vives his nervous sensibility; for his flesh trembles, and his absorbents continue their function, for a while after he is dead, and his nervous power annihilated. In cases of suffocation, we sometimes restore animation after the nervous sensibility is sus- pended, and when nothing is left to aid our experiments, but muscular irritability. If putrefaction has commenced, the irrita- ble power of the muscle is for ever gone, and nothing can restore it. Sensibility therefore depends on the nerves—motion on the muscles ; the one conduces to our pleasures and pains, and is connected with our intellect—the other is the prime support of animal life, and the source of corporeal power—yet both are necessary in the living animal, to produce locomotion. The length of the lever increases the mechanical power of the muscle—the mastoid process laterally, and the occiput posteriorly, are levers for the head—the spine of the vertebras for the back— the olecranon or elbow for the arm, and the pisiform bone for the hand—the pelvis or basin, and the trochanters of the thighbones, are levers for the thigh—the patella or kneelid for the leg— the heelbone for the foot, and the arch of the foot for the toes. These are the principal, but not all the levers of the body. In all the other muscular implantations, the ends of the mus- cles are levers, not behind the joint; but betwixt the joint and the body to be moved. There is a greater loss of power when they are inserted near a joint, and there is less loss of power, when a tendon is fixed far from a joint; for although such inser- tions be designated shorter or longer levers—yet there is always some mechanical loss of power, and true levers in the body are very few indeed. Nature has provided as much contractile power in the muscular fibres, as to compensate for the loss in effect of the lessened mechanical power of the levers; and in place of increasing the effect of muscles by levers, pulleys, and hinges, there is in almost every muscle, a great abatement of its force, by the form of the bone it is designed to move ; for muscles lose much of their effect by implantation, not behind the joint, but betwixt the joint and the body to be moved, and their oblique insertion, with regard to the motion about to be per- formed ; and half their power is lost, on the immovable end of the bone. In the human body, muscular power is always sacri- ficed to preserve the form and symmetry of the parts, to make tiie joints smaller than the limbs, and proportion the limbs to the I body. Extraordinary lever power is not often required in the motions and actions of the body; for the great Creator has i appointed sufficient vital and contractile power in the muscles, to effect every useful purpose, and at the same time preserve the beauty and mechanism of the animal machine, according to his plan of infinite wisdom, and almighty power. III. The Adaptation, Uses, and Diseases of the Cellular Substance of the Muscles and Joints of the Bodj. The active parts of the system are the muscles and nerves the muscles, to move the body and perform its offices, each i subm.tting to its own peculiar stimuli, and most of them obeying the will,—the nerves, to feel, suffer, enjoy and issue the com- I mands of the will, and to move the muscles to action. The muscles possess their own peculiar kind of vitality independent of the nerves. But there is a substance called the cellular sub- stance, which not only binds and separates the muscular fibres and muscles individually and collectively, but forms coverings for the brain and nerves—sheaths for the muscles, tendons, ligaments, burs®, and all the apparatus of the joints, and unites them into a whole, by the extensions, divisions, and duplications of its own proper substances. Tendons, or the extremities of muscles—ligaments, or the sinews—periosteum, or the mem- brane that covers the bones—and the burs®, or the mucous bags that fill up and lubricate the cavities of joints,—are com- posed of this cellular substance, which not only combines and connects the parts by its elasticity, but is also a medium of com- munication for the rest of the system. The cellular substance keeps the muscles and their fibres separated at proper distances from each other, and lubricates and supports them. Its thinner halitus makes them play easy and free ; and its fat (for the cellu- lar substance contains the fat of the body,) not only supports them in their action, but preserves their softness, and lubricates them so perfectly, that its deficiency is painful, and its super- abundance cumbersome to the individual. When muscles rub on each other, the halitus (or dewy softness) of the cellular sub- stance prevents friction and pain ; when tendon rubs on ten- don—bone on bone—or muscle on tendon—the cellular substance assumes another form, and its little cells running together into one large cell, with a thicker and more copious exudation, and being literally bedewed with a gelatinous mucus—prevents the bad effects of friction. These large cells are called burs® mucosas, and are placed under rubbing tendons, and in large joints, to prevent friction, as circumstances require them. Every muscle is enclosed in its own cellular sheath, not only to give it pliancy, strength and form, but to preserve it in its pro- per position. Tendons are not only necessary as pulleys to the bones, but to give the limbs a proper form, and preserve their beautiful symmetry. Tendons are seldom required, except where muscles are inserted into bones. There is no tendon in the heart, the stomach, the bowels, the oesophagus, and bladder ; these do not require them ; for their motions are wholly contractile, and need no lever power. But where tendons pass over bones and traverse joints, their force is concentrated into narrower bounds, and their long cords being fixed to the extremities of the muscles, pull the bones and raise them in obedience to our will. Tendons have no visible nerves, and have little feeling and no motion. The expansion of the palmaris, and many other tendons, may be unravelled into simple cellular substances. The periosteum, or membrane which surrounds the bones, is also a condensation of cellular substance, in successive layers, attached to the bones. Tendons are implanted into the periosteum, mix with it, and become part of its substance. The tendons of muscles sometimes separate and form sheaths or rings for others. Sometimes they run in grooves formed in the bone; at other times they expand over the bones, so as to form an entire sheath for the fingers and toes ; and are so firmly bound down, that they cannot start from the joints to which they are attached. The periosteum of the bones is a continued membrane,—each bone is tied to the next by its own periosteum, and betwixt the end of one bone and the beginning of the next, the periosteum is thickened into a strong hard bag, forming a capsule for the joint. The capsule contains a glairy liquor that bedews the heads of the moving bones and prevents friction. There are also strong ligaments or bands, arising from the periosteum, that sur- round the joints and unite them firmly on every side. When we cut or injure a tendon, or any part of a joint, the pain at first is very slight; but soon after, when inflammation succeeds, the pain becomes excruciating. Its first action is slow; but when roused, it is obstinate, persevering, and painful. Injury and dislocation of joints are the most acutely agonizing diseases, during inflammatory action, to which the body is sub- jected. The diseases of joints are almost infinite in variety. Joints are particularly subject to dropsy, gelatinous concretions, inflammation, suppuration, erosion of the cartilages, and exfo- liation of the bones. Acute rheumatism is an inflammatory ac- tion around the joints, attended with a slight effusion, which is soon absorbed. Chronic rheumatism is a painful and slow inflam- mation, with gelatinous effusion around the tendons, permanent swelling, and lameness of the affected joint. Gout in a joint is acute inflammation, attended with secretion of earthy matter into its cavity. Inflammation of the tendons is an attendant on sprains. Effusion of gelatinous matter around the tendons forms a ganglion. Suppuration of the tendinous sheath is a whitlow