335 ART, SCIENCE, MECHANICS, AND ENGINEERING. On the inside of this bag, and on the outside of the bones, new bony matter is deposited from the blood, and, by and by, the frac- ture is enveloped in a ferule of new bone—which bony matter is also formed between the broken ends, cementing them directly together. This sort of ferule is felt as a lump on the bone, for a long while, but as the direct connexion of the broken ends becomes stronger, it disappears, being now less needed. The bones of the upper extremity are generally united in three weeks, those of the leg in a month, and the thigh-bone in about six weeks ; but even at these periods they are not so strong as to bear rough usage. When a bone is broken, it must be obvious that the muscles will no longer produce the natural action which the bone served to direct, but will draw the piece that is broken off into some place where it ought not to be. When the thigh-bone is broken, for example, the strong muscles which pass along it from the pelvis to the leg, pull up the lower fragment, so that the limb becomes shortened. It is also apt to be distorted, by the loose piece being pushed by violence, or pulled by the muscles, to one side or the other. In treating fractures, we begin, therefore, first to reduce them, or bring the broken ends into their proper places, and then we have to maintain them in apposition, by the appli- cation of splints and bandages, which will keep them immovable till union shall have been obtained. When there is no wound accompanying it, a fracture is styled simple; when a wound passes down to it, so that there is a com- munication between the broken ends of the bone and the exter- nal air, it is called compound, and becomes a very dangerous matter. A compound fracture takes many weeks, or even months, to mend ; and frequently it will not mend at all, but causes a profuse suppuration, so that the limb must be amputated, to give the patient even a chance of surviving. Sometimes we meet with defective states of the nourishment of bone—so that it becomes very brittle or very soft. In the former case, fractures will happen to almost every long bone in the body ; in the other, they bend under the weight of the limbs, causing great deformity ; and sometimes, after this deformity has taken place, they become unnaturally hard, producing, of course, deplorable and incurable decrepitude. Ulceration and mortification take place in bones, as well as in the soft parts ; and a very curious affection occurs, called necrosis, when a bone dies, and a new one grows round about it, to supply its place, after which the . old one is thrown off, or, more commonly, requires to be removed by the surgeon. Scro- fulous diseases of the bones are very common, and give much work for the surgeon : other constitutional affections attack them also. Several forms of cancer, and other incurable changes ol structure analogous to it, also attack bones ; and death can be avoided only by the removal of the whole bone affected. ON THE MANUFACTURE OF CAST-IRON. CHAPTER III. ON TI1E I'SE AND THEORY OP THE HOT BLAST. rx the former chapters we endeavoured to show that the irregu- larities of the blast-furnace arose partly from atmospheric changes in the volume of the air, and partly from the construction of the furnace itself, by which a portion of the metal, in falling through the blast, becomes oxidized; ^nd as a portion of the blast comes into direct contact with the incombustible matters of the charge, and the intensely heated sides of the hearth, it may become so much rarefied as to be rendered unfit for supporting the combus- tion of the coke, or even for decomposing the carbonic oxide. The vitreous matters, likewise, being chilled and solidified by the rush of cold air, prevent the free application of the blast upon the fuel. These obstructions, also, cause the focus of combus- tion to shift from place to plftce in the furnace, and by this means a portion of the metal becomes prematurely melted down, while only in the state of steel or hard cast-iron ; while in the part of the furnace where the blast is obstructed, scaffolds are pro- duced. These again by giving way form new openings for the blast; and, at times, they even choke up the tuyeres altogether, from the quantity of fluid metal brought down along with them, to the great annoyance of the furnace-keeper. All these evils might be lessened, if not entirely avoided, by an alteration of the furnace ; for, by keeping the ore longer in a state of cemen- tation, and by applying the blast to the fuel in a diffused or gentle stream, as is done in the air or pit furnace, the combus- tion would be more perfect, and the heat more uniform. We shall now advert to the use of rarefied air, or the hot blast, as it is called. In 1804, hot air was tried at the Bradley Iron Works, in the smelting of iron, but was given up in consequenco of the puddlers complaining that, since the hot air was used, the iron had become so rich and gray that it would not answer for puddling, and they could make nothing of it. After using it for about three months it was abandoned, as the iron produced by it was unsuitable for their purpose—it being forge pigs, and not foundery iron they wanted. In 1817, Mr Stirling, an ingenious gentleman, belonging to Ayrshire, took a patent for a means of economizing fuel by retaining the waste heat that is constantly escaping from furnaces, by means of the fresh air with which the furnace was afterward to be supplied ; conceiving that, by this means, more heat might be obtained from the same consumpt of fuel, by the caloric accumulating in the furnace, which he con- sidered would at least be equivalent to the difference of tempera- ture imparted to the blast, above the temperature of the atmo- sphere. However, from the necessary expense of the erections for retaining and transmitting the heat to the fresh air, and the small amount of saving likely to be derived from it, this patent never was brought into use. Akin to this is another patent of a still more recent date, to which the patentees have given the name of hot-blast, and which has now been adopted by most of our Scottish smelters. From the vague manner in which this specification is drawn out, it is perfectly impossible, without the aid of a letter of the investors to Dr Cleland, to discover in what they consider the invention to consist. However, this letter and Professor Clark’s paper give us a clue to the whole, espe- cially as these are also confirmed by the belief of the smelters who have adopted it. This invention, therefore, may be con- sidered—1st, as a means of increasing the velocity of the blast without a corresponding increase of power from the blowing engine; and this, the patentees.seem to imagine, can be effected by expanding the air by heat after it has left the blowing cylinder; 2nd, that by this heating of tjie air before applying it to the support of combustion, they seem to think that the combinatior with the fuel must be more rapid; and, that by this means, they can produce a much more intense neat in the hearth of the furnace than when cold air wps used. “ Because,” say they, “ from the enormous quantity of air required for the support of combustion in a blast furnace, it must absorb and carry off a great proportion of the heat ; dnd, therefore, from the heat in the air, and the increased energy of the combustion less fuel should melt the ore with the hot than with the cold blast.” And, in proof of the efficacy of their invention we are told, that when they heated the air to 300°—for which they required 8 cwt. of coal for the heating process—they obtained such an increase of temperature in the furnace as would have required 58 cwt. of coal, or times the quantity to have been consumed in the fur- nace itself with the cold blast. And, again, when they raised the blast to 600°, 8 cwt. of coal, consumed in the heating furnace, produced a saving of 116 cwt. in the large furnace. However, as the patentees seem to have forgotten that air expands in all directions, their first idea of increasing the velocity of the blast, without increasing the resistance against the piston, appears to me to be altogether erroneous. And, again, that 8 cwt. of coal, when consumed in a separate furnace, should be capable of generating so much heat in the large furnace—and this too in a detached building situated at some distance—and, at the same time, that such an increase of heat could have been produced by blowing the furnace with the same pressure of blast, and from the same orifices, or nozzles, as were used with the cold blast, but, now, with air rarefied to half an atmosphere; or, in other words, by discharging into the furnace a blast only equal to half the quantity that was used in the state of cold air; but now expanded to the same volume as the cold blast—the very means by which combustion in the large furnace ought to have been rendered still more gentle and diffuse—is an idea so un-