ART, SCIENCE, MECHANICS, AND ENGINEERING. G5 die away;—as the carrot, the cabbage^ the foxglove. Peren- nial plants are those which live niany successive seasons. Some of them are herbaceous, sending up stems and leaves, which flourish and fade down to the ground in one season, as the asparagus does; while the ntiot remains, and sends up a new crop with the returning sn/ing. Others remain entirely above ground, and are called&rubs or trees. In the botani- cal books, certain signs are ifecd for these modifications;— 0 signifying annual; , biennial; 1/, perennial. Plants are sometimes changed froth annual to biennial and perennial, by change of climate and/cultivation. It is only necessary farther to remark, that it is improper to perform transplantation except when the juices of the plant have retired, anil it is dry, as during winter; and then the new radicles shoo/out again in spring, just as if the plant had been left alone. ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY. CHAPTER XVII. OF DIGESTION THE MOUTH AND TEETH. In all living bodies there is a continual waste going on which requires to be repaired by nourishing matter taken from with- out, and added to the system. Vegetables depend for their ex- istence on extraneous matter, which is taken up by the roots, and distributed by means of the sap-veSsels. But the grand characteristic of animals is their possessing a stomach, a central cavity into which the nourishing matter is first put, to be thence taken up into the circulation, and so distributed all over the system. The stomach and bowels constitute the proper diges- tive apparatus, and several other organs which co-operate in various ways to aid it, are the assistant digestive apparatus. Besides, w-e have a set of organs for preparing the food for the stomach, tearing, bruising, and grinding it, and mixing it with fluid, that it may be easily sw-allowed and digested. ° It is most convenient, though, perhaps, not most philosophical, to trace these parts successively from the mouth downward; we will therefore commence with the jaws, mouth, and teeth • examine the salivary glands, the palate, and the bag of the gullet; inquire into the nature of the action of swallowing and trace the food as far as the stomach. From the stomach we will follow it down into the small intestines; see how it is mingled with the bile and the pancreatic juice; and learn how the nourishing parts of it are absorbed and carried into the circulating mass; and how that part which is useless is pushed on, until it be expelled from the body. The mouth is a cavity having somewhat the shape of a hemisphere, the flat surface being directed downward, and the convexity upward. Its roof is formed by bone; it is snut in at trie sides and front by the muscular parts forming ie cheeks and lips ; below, it is enclosed by the lower jaw, amt its floor is formed by the tongue. In the figure, the right iialf of the lower jaw has been removed, leaving the bag of the VOL. II. ° ° pharynx open, from the buck part of the mouth hangs down the pharynx, a conical bag, which leads into the gul- let g, and the nose communicates with it from abovef as shown by a piece of whalebone w. Hence is the reason that we can breathe equally by the nose or mouth ; and, that sometimes if we be taken by surprise with a fit of coughing while swallowing, the contents of the throat run out through the nose. In order to prevent this from occurring constantly, there is a curtain c placed at the back of the mouth, which w-e see on looking into a glass ; and which rises or falls ac- cording to the necessity for its being applied either above or below. A long red tassel hangs down from the centre of it, nearly touching the top of the tongue, endowed with great sensibility, and warns the curtain to rise whenever the food comes in contact with it. When food is about to be swal- lowed, it is rolled about in the mouth and mixed with saliva, till it forms a kind of ball; and when this gets to the back of the mouth, between the arches of the palate, there is felt an irresistible tendency to swallow. The curtain now rises so as to prevent any of it passing up into the nose ; the tongue rises against the roof of the mouth, so as to keep it from get- ting forward again ; and the only course left for it is to pass down into the gullet, pushing down the valve v of the wind- pipe as it passes. It is a mistake, however, to suppose that food falls into the stomach, the fact being that a man can swallow nearly as well w hen standing on his head as on his feet.. This will be understood if we suppose an imaginary division of the gullet into a number of rings. When one ring contracts, the food passes on into the next; then the second contracts, and squeezes it down into the third ; while the first being still contracted, prevents it from getting up; and so the process goes on, regularly downward, until the ball arrives at the stomach. And in vomiting, an action precisely the reverse of this takes place, and the food is squeezed up from the stomach into the mouth, although so rapidly that its passage seems almost instantaneous. The tongue is fixed to the back of the chin, and has a mus- cle arising from this point, and radiating through it, forward, upward, and backward ; so that it can protrude the tongue, turn it upward, downward, or to the side, render its surface convex or hollow', to serve for a conduit, as in drinking. There are three pairs of muscles actually forming the sub- stance of the tongue, and not less than six pairs more which can aid in its motions. The whole inner surface of the mouth is lined with a soft mucous membrane, so called be- cause it pours out a mucus from its surface to lubricate it, to protect it, and to assist the food to slide easily through it. The upper surface of the tongue is studded with many deli- cate papilla or points, in which the nerves of taste end, which vary in appearance in different animals. In the cow, for example, they are much rougher than in man; in the lion they are so rough as to be capable of peeling one’s skin off, should he attempt to lick it; and in some of the marine ani- mals which swallow living shell-fish, both the tongue and the gullet are covered with thickly set spines, directed backward, to prevent their prey from actually creeping up again. Six glands are placed about the mouth for the purpose of supplying saliva to be mixed with the food. Two very large ones lie behind the ear, in the hollow between the low’er jaw and the temporal bone, so that the motion of eating squeezes out their contents. Their ducts run forward in the cheek, and perforate the mouth opposite the second last tooth in the upper jaw, where, with the tongue, a small soft projection may be recognised. Two others lie on each side under the tongue, having a common duct, which may be seen opening on the fold of the membrane that bridles down the tongue^ This fold, by the by, it may be mentioned here, is what pro- duces the appearance called tongue-tacked when too short. The tongue cannot then be put out of the mouth, and the in- fant cannot suck until the fold be divided by a pair of scissors. This little operation, trifling though it be, should never be intrusted to any one but the attending surgeon ; for there are a couple of arteries lying close to this bridle, which are apt to be divided by an ill-directed incision. The tonsil is I