ART, SCIENCE, MECHANICS, AND ENGINEERING. 189 lion ; a nerve, n, directing the process ; a duct d, conveying awa3r the product; a vein v, receiving the superfluous blood; and a lymphatic !, as every other part of the body has, for removing that part of the structure which is hourly becoming incapable of performing its functions aright. The liver is the gland on which we have been able to make the most accurate observa- tions, as being the largest, and the most distinct in its struc- ture, but there can be no doubt that the others are arranged much on the same principle. The blood from which the secre- tion is to be made is distributed to the outside of the granule which we examine ; the vein passes off from the centre of the granule ; and it is while the blood is passing from the out- side to the centre, that, under the influence of the nerves, the separation of the new product is accomplished. The tears are poured out by the lachrymal gland, situated in the upper and out- er part of the orbit, or cavity for the eye, where it is protected from external vio- lence, being com- pletely within the bony rim, which is indicated in the ac- companyingsketch by a dotted line. It is about the size of a tamarind stone, and convex on its upper surface, so as to suit the concavity of the roof of the orbit. It consists of a multitude of yellow granules, bound together by cellular tissue, and to it are distributed the blood of a small artery and the branches of a small nerve. From this gland niri from five to seven small ducts, (not represented in the gure) which convey the tears from it, perforate the mucous membrane at the outer part of the orbit, and so let the tears wash the whole surfaces of the eye and eyelids, before they escape into the nose at the inner angle. The secretion of tears is constantly going on, but in small quantity, merely or the purpose of keeping the eye moist. When any irri- ating substance alights upon the eye, or gets inside the eye- lids,—as a particle of dust or an insect,—an increased flovv of tears is immediately excited, in order to wash it away. This sudden flow, it need scarcely be remarked, is also brought on y mental emotion. A little red projection is seen between the eyelids at their inner angles, being a rudiment of the haw or third eyelid, which we see in all birds, and in some beasts, as the horse and cow. Its use in man is to prevent the tears from running out upon the cheek. At the projecting ang e w] ich each eyelid forms, just before its inner termina- tion, it it be everted a little, a small hole will be seen, for the absorption of the tears. Along the two canals seen in the figure leading from these holes, the tears pass into a duct, ra her larger than a crow-quill, which lies underneath the httle knot which is felt on the side of the root of the nose at the inner junction of the eyelids. This duct terminates in the nose, and conveys the tears there, after they have done all that is expected of them above. This is the reason why izrr/r "°su,stron^>and c,°se y°«r eye, whe., any particle of dust has lodged in it, with the view of getting it drawn toward the inner angle (where it lodges, and whence Clln ,c Wlped out), by the tears which are passing into the nose through the lachrymal canals. In a dusty day, an ccumulation of particles is seen in the recess beside the little reu projection, ready to be wiped away.* 19.,1'3“'! e*tremely rare thing for any disease to attack the y a gland; the author has, however, seen a case where ^stances found in tears by Fourcroy and Vauquelin are water mucus, common salt, soda, phosphate if lime, phosphate of soda ’ ’ it became enlarged and hard, and could be distinctly felt from [ the outside. On the other hand, the excreting lachrymal are very apt to go wrong. The duct often inflames, so that the tears cannot get down it, and run over the cheek, pro- clucing troublesome excoriations. Sometimes it suppurates and bursts ; and then it requires a bit of silver wire to be introduced, and to be worn in it for some time, to keep open the passage into the nose, which has a tendency to become obliterated. The whole is thickly covered with the orifices of minute bags, which excrete an oily matter, to keep it soft and pliant. Ihese are more numerous in some parts than others, as in the arm-pits, and produce a disagreeable heavy effluvium, if care be not taken to keep the skin perfectly clean. This smell is particularly strong in people of colour. Un the face, the orifices of these ducts are apt to become obstructed, and present little black points, projecting slightly above the level of the skin. When these are squeezed, the letained waxy matter is evacuated, assuming the shape of a little worm, from being forced through the narrow aperture. requently the irritation becomes greater, and a little pus forms, causing a pimple. Nothing that we know of is effi- cacious in keeping them back, notwithstanding all that the venders of lotions say to the contrary. Strict attention to cleanliness is the main thing; and the little points must be squeezed out daily as they appear. It is, however, the case, that in persons of intemperate habits, these spots increase and multiply to a very disagreeable extent. In the eyelids, those little glands are collected into two sets, and on looking at their edges, twenty or thirty small loles will be seen in each, whence a yellow matter exudes. (In the last figure, these are seen forming the row of distinct holes ; the row of still smaller ones, closely ranged together, being the apertures in which the eyelashes were set.) . After cold, this matter is apt to become increased in quantity so as to glue the eyelids together in the mornino-, and to remain sticking in little yellow bits, while the edges of the ids themselves become inflamed. In such cases, the first rule to be attended to is, that the eyelids must not be forcibly separated, or else some of the adhering eyelashes will be pulled out; but the matter must first be softened with a rag and warm water. At night, a little eye-salve must be regularly put between the lids ; and in those who are subject to this annoyance, (although they be not ill with it,) the ointment should be used at least once a-week, as a pre- ventive measure. In scrofulous children who are ill taken care of, we often see this complaint go a shocking length, destroying all the eyelashes, causing little ulcers, and ending by rendering’ the edges of the lids smooth, hard, and rounded, instead of possessing their natural delicacy of structure. The salivary glands have been already noticed in speak- ing of the mouth. There are three on each side, the paro- tid beside the ear, the sublingual under the tongue, and the submaxillary under the angle of the jaw. The saliva flows from them in great quantity during mastication, in conse- quence of the pressure which they undergo. Nervous feel- ing, or even mental emotion, has something to do with it,how- ever; for the saliva flows from a hungry person on even see- ing a piece of meat; so that there is truth in the common phrase, which describes an eager person’s mouth as watering.* The gastric juice has been already sufficiently treated °of, under the head of digestion, p. 94. Its chemical composi- tion is by no means satisfactorily ascertained. The pancreas is identical in structure with the salivary * The quantity secreted in twenty-four hours is about 7J ounces avoir. ChemiCaI comP°*itioQ of the saliva, as detelS by bX 'V*.te.r- 902-9 Salivin, 2*9 M .......m!”,',',' 14 Alkaline chlorides, ***** j.j Lactate of soda, with animal matter,.... 0 9 Soda> 0 9 10007