ART, SCIENCE, MECHANICS, AND ENGINEERING. 333 a mass of moist clays, and observed in consequence, the forma- tion of numerous fissures, more or less similar to slaty cleavage, in planes parallel to the bounding surface of the mass, and at right angles to the electric currents. The exact application of this experiment is not understood. Perhaps, however, conjoin- ed with the admission, that the great movements of strata, by which slaty cleavage was determined, depended on the disturbed equilibrium of internal local weight, or rather must have devel- oped electric currents;—this solitary experiment may be the commencement of a right mode of more extensive inquiry, em- bracing the many circumstances of chemical nature,—stratified arrangement, disturbed position, and proximity of aqueous rocks—which must all be included in a good theory of slaty cleavage.” Indeed, there can be little doubt, that in all the phenomena which these rooks present, thermo-electrical action has performed a very important office, both in the re-arrange- ment of the molecules of matter, by which their cleavage has been determined, and their present structure produced, and we have no less an authority than Professor Sedgwick, for conclud- ing, that they cannot bo referred to retreat of parts, or contrac- tion of dimensions, but to crystalline or polar forces, acting simultaneously in given directions on large masses, having a homogeneous (9) structure. (I) Lamelliferous, consisting oflaminae, O' thin layers. (2) Zoophvta, coralline animals. (3) Brachiopoda, spiral armed mollusese, or sliell-fish. (1; Gasteropoda, snails, and other inhabitants of spiral nnivalved shells, as the whelk. (5) Cephalopoda, animals which, like the cuttle-fish, have their organs ot prehension and progression situated round the head. (6) Con- chitera, oysters, mussels, and other inhabitants of similarly constructed bi- valves. (7) Anticlinal line, the line from which strata dip in opposite direc- tions. (8) Synclinal line, the line to which strata dip from opposite directions. (!)) Homogeneous, of the same nature, not mechanically compounded of different substances. ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY. CHAPTER XI. the skeleton.—Concluded. Tim upper extremities have a strong general resemblance to the lower—the shoulder corresponding to the pelvis, the arm to the thigh, the fore-arm to the leg, and the hand to the foot; but the differences between them are also very striking. The lower limbs are formed for progression, and for supporting the weight of the rest of the body ; the upper are formed for prehension— much less strong, but much more moveable. The shoulder is not fixed immovably to the trunk—the shoulder-blade glides on the back of the ribs, and is joined firmly to the outer end of the collar-bone; and the inner end of this is connected to a socket on I the upper corner of the breast-bone, which permits great freedom of motion, but forms a centre round which the shoulder plays, so as to be raised or depressed, or carried forward or backward. The 1 collar-bone, or clavicle, is slender, curved like a long italic f; and as all shocks produced by falls on any part of the upper extremity are transmitted through it—it is one of the bones most frequently broken. The shoulder-blade is triangular, with one angle directed ; downward, one upward, and one outward, and it covers the ribs from the second to the seventh. It is not, however, attached to the ribs, but is separated from them by a cushion of muscle upon which it glides. At its external angle there is a socket for the bone of the arm, so shallow that this bone is not laid into it, but merely against it, an arrangement which is one reason of the frequency of dislocations of the shoulder-joint. The bone of the arm is single, attached above to the shoulder-blade, and below i •» toe bones of the fore-arm. It has a large round head, which is united by a ball and socket-joint with the shoulder, capable of i motion in every direction; and by a hinge-joint with the fore-arm, capable of flexion and extension. It lias two projections, cx- l ternally, and internally, just above the elbow, which give the I breadth to this part of the limb, and to which the muscles of the fore-arm are attached. The bones of the fore-arm are two, the | radius and the ulna; the former being on the outer side, and the I.Hlcr on the inner. The ulna is connected chiefly with the elbow-joint, and the radius chiefly with the wrist; so that when i-S— a fall is received on the hand, the force is transmitted through the radius much more than through the ulna; and, hence, the radius is broken much more frequently than any other bone in the body. The ulna is articulated very firmly to the arm-bone, and moves on it in flexion and extension ; it can be bent up very close to it, and may even be extended very nearly into a straight line with it. The radius is very slightly connected with the arm- bone, and has a round head received into a cavity in the outside of the ulna, while at its lower end it has a cavity in its inner side, which rolls round the small lower end of the ulna. The effect of this arrangement is, that the ulna has always the same face directed forward, while the radius can roll round the ulna, so that its edge, or even its back, can be turned forward, carry- ing the hand along with it. This motion is commonly said to take place in the wrist, but, in reality, the wrist has nothing to do with it. It is called pronation and supination; the hand is said to be prone when its back, and supine when its palm is turned upward or forward. It is in this motion that the greatest difference is observed between the fore-arm and the leg : had any such motion been permitted in the leg, it would have pro- duced instability. The two bones are connected in their whole length by a strong membrane, which gives origin to muscles, while it does not interfere with the rolling motion. The two ex- tremities of the ulna, both upper and lower, are readily felt in the living limb, and afford a very ready standard of measurement from the elbow to the finger points, called the cubit, from the old Latin name of the bone, cubitus. The Hand consists of twenty-seven bones, and is divided into three parts, analogous to those of the foot. The solid part en- tering into the wrist-joint, is pro- perly called the wrist, or carpus, corresponding to the tarsus in the foot, but for obvious reasons greatly smaller, both in itself and in relation to the rest of the hand. Five long bones come next, making the palm, and four- teen very moveable pieces super- added, complete the fingers and thumb. In its construction, the whole hand differs from the foot, on account of its being intended, not for support, but to catch with, and all its parts are ad- apted to this end. Eight small hones are pretty firmly united to form the wrist, presenting a ball superiorly to enter the cavity in the lower end of the radius, fitted interiorly to support the bones of the palm, arched behind to give it strength, and concave in front to permit the bloodves- sels, veins, and sinews, to run .. . . . . ... , ’ . c, the eight bones of the carpus, to the fingers, without being sub- the five bones of the metacarpus, jected to undue pressure. In f> the fourteen pieces of the fingers the palm we see the principal ancl difference between the hand and the foot. In the latter, all the bones of the instep lie in one direction, immovable, and serving only to rest on. In the former, four of the bones of the palm are placed side by side, to form the hollow of the hand, and to support the fingers; while another, supporting the thumb, is very moveable, being capable of being brought opposite the others, so as to grasp firmly anything between it and them. The pieces of the fingers are considerably larger than those of the toes, and much more moveable, but are formed on a similar model. The fingers have each three pieces, the thumb only two. The last piece of each is expanded at the end, to support the nail on its back, and on its front the delicate pulp where the nerves ramify, and in which the nicest sense of touch resides. It is interesting to glance over the vertebrate division of the animal kingdom, and observe the modifications which an All-wise Creator has employed to fit the same bone or set of bones for differ- ent uses. The different genera whose fore-limbs are represented here, present very great differences ; and to render these the more obvious to the reader, a line is drawn over the wrist-joints of each. In man, whose arm is to the left of the figure, and which we make our standard for comparison, the shoulder-blade Front view ol left Hand. I