THE IMPERIAL JOURNAL OF 208 — males • because the umbilical opening is slowly dilated m preg , nancv and admits the bowels to protrude. Inguinal hernia, or rupture at the abdominal ring, is more frequent in men than women, because the round ligament of the womb being smaller than the spermatic cord, the inguinal ring is therefore closer and firmer in women than men. There seems to be a hereditary predisposition to hernia in certain families ; and in these cases it is almost impossible to prevent the protrusion of the bowels from the most trivial causes in childhood. The diaphragm, or interseptum, is an internal transverse vaulted partitio°n betwixt the abdomen and chest; it is not only vaulted in the middle, but rises as high anteriorly as the breast- bone, where it commences; while its lower and back parts begin almost as low as the pelvis, and from the false ribs and the verte- bras of the loins ; and although it is convex towards the chest, and concave towards the belly, yet it becomes almost plain when it presses against the abdominal muscles in inspiration, but re- sumes its convexity, when by their reaction it is pushed back again into the chest in expiration. This alternate action and reaction constitute respiration or breathing ; strictly speaking, however, there are two diaphragms—a greater before, and a smaller behind; in the centre betwixt them is a strong triangular tendon, and in the fleshy and tendinous fibres are several natural openings for the transmission of blood-vessels, ducts, and nerves, betwixt the abdomen and the chest. Besides the important function of respiration, the diaphragm is not only useful in assisting to discharge fsecal matter and urine, from the bowels and bladder, but to expel the foetus from the womb in parturition. Vomiting, hiccuping, yawning, crying, laughing, coughing, sighing, weeping, and indeed every audible emotion of joy and fear are diaphragmatic actions; and the cele- brated Haller very justly remarks, “ that the diaphragm is the noblest muscle after the heart.” The power of the muscles, the rapidity and durability of their action, are in some animals very extraordinary. The smallest common flea leaps with ease many hundred times the length and height of its body, by the agile power of the muscles of its legs. The wings of the humming bee move with such astonishing rapi- dity, that each muscular motion is imperceptible to the most discriminating eye. The lady-bird will fly 480 million times the len<nh of its body in twenty-four hours. The eagle will fly fifty- four miles in an hour, and the canary-falcon 1125 miles in twenty-four hours. The antelope will run a mile in a minute ; the elk a mile and a half in seven minutes ; and some men have travelled a hundred miles in twenty-four hours. The human heart and arteries, beating at the rate of 64 per minute—-pulsate 92,160 times every twenty-four hours ; and often continue to beat without intermission and fatigue, for eighty or ninety years. The middle coat of the arteries, and the entire heart, are muscular ; and pulsation is accomplished by their elastic power, stimulated by the circulating blood. The power and rapidity of muscular action do not always depend on the comparative magnitude and strength of the mus- cles. The sloth is many thousand times larger than the flea, yet the sloth will only travel fifty paces per day—a journey which the flea will perform with a few wonderful leaps. The worm is many hundred times larger than the ant, yet the lormer will only crawl a few inches per minute, while the latter is almost constantly in rapid exercise, and carries heavy loads to his nest. Although some sluggish animals have naturally very little mus- cular rapidity when performing locomotion, yet if wounded or irritated, their muscles are thrown into violent action, and con- vulsively move with rapidity and power. The worm that crawls only six inches a minute, when naturally left to the sluggish movements of its muscles, will writhe and fling its body to and fro when wounded, and dash itself on the ground with rapidity and violence. When muscles are spasmodically contracted, they are rigid and painful; and when cramp seizes our limbs, we feel the affected muscles stiff, hard, and inflexible as rods of iron. The pain is excruciating, and nothing can alleviate its severity, but the cessation of spasm. This intense suffering is produced by the muscular fibres pressing spasmodically on the nerves that ramify in the affected muscles, and supply their fibres with sen- sibility and nervous power. The middle coat of the stomach and bowels is muscular, and every person knows how speedily death is sometimes produced by its painful spasms. We ought never, by overstrained exertion, to injure our muscles. Insup- 1 oitable fatigue sometimes ruptures their fibres, destroys their action and induces lameness. The muscles are perfectly fitted to perform every useful motion for which the Creator has de- signed them. If we employ them wrongfully, we injure their utility, thwart our Creator, and incur the penalty of wilfully violating the laws of nature. , . . , . We shall proceed to describe the muscles of the inferior parts o the body, and the lower extremities, in our next chapter, and finish the muscular system. GEOLOGY CHAPTER VII. VOLCANOES. Whetiieu the remarkable increase of temperature, experienced in descending beneath the surface of the earth, is the effect of radiation from a molten mass of incandescent matter, or whether it is occasioned by electric currents in the crust of the earth itself, is matter of dispute. Mr. Lyell favours the last hypothesis. “ Some portions of earthy compounds,” he says, “ are daily' resolved into their elements, and these on being set free are always passing into new combinations. These processes are almost always accompanied by evolution of heat, which is intense in proportion to the rapidity of the combinations. At the same time there is a development of electricity. It is well known that a mixture of certain materials sunk in the ground and exposed to moisture, gives out sufficient heat to pass gradually into a state of combustion, and to set fire to any- bodies that are near. Let a large quantity of clean iron filings be mixed with a still larger proportion of sulphur, and as much water as is necessary to make them into a firm paste; let the mixture be then buried in the earth, and the soil: pressed down firmly upon it. In a few hours it will warm and swell so as to raise the ground, sulphureous vapours will make their way through the crevices, and sometimes flames will appear. There is rarely an explosion; but when this happens, the fire is vivid; and if the quantity of materials is considerable, the heat;and fire will continue for a long time.” I . . , . Instead, therefore, of referring volcanic action to the existence of an original central heat, it has been inferred that it may result from changes similar to that referred to, going on constantly in the crust of the earth. It has also been' considered as probable, that the contact of water with the bases of the earths and alkalies in the subterranean regions may produce intense heat, and this theory is also supported by the fact, that volcanoes are in general situated near the coast. The hypothesis is familiarly illustrated by bring- ing a piece of potassium or sodium into contact with any moist substance: a rapid decomposition of tie water ensues with the evolution of intense heat—the oxygen Combining with the metal to produce potash or soda, according as the base of the one or the other is employed. A similar effedf accompanies the action of water on the other metallic bases. But whether this affords a sufficient explanation of volcanic action, is a question upon which we are not yet prepared to give a decision. The fact is, how- ever, before us; and whatever may be the cause or causes which produce volcanic phenomena, the burn&ig mountain and the earthquake have at all times been objects of intense interest. " e propose, therefore, to give the history of a few volcanic eruptions in various parts of the world, as narrated by Lyell and other naturalists. , ... A volcano generally consists of a cone-shaped hill, witn a wide crater or chasm at its summit, from which issue flame am smoke, and in the times of great activity, rivers of burning lava, and showers of stone and ashes. The quantity of matter poured out is various. Sometimes it overspreads considerable tracts ot the adjacent territory, and, when consolidated, forms a stratum o rock to the depth of many feet. Sometimes the showers ot dust and stones are immense,—so much so, in fact, as in the cases, o Pompeii and Herculaneum, to bury whole cities. The eruption ■of a volcano generally commences with a tremendous explosion, which is succeeded by others less loud, and the; escape of gas and vapour from the mouth of the crater. Large fragments ot solid