384 THE IMPERIAL JOURNAL OF When the juice is evaporated and digested in strong alcohol, the solution deposits common salt and also plates of salmiac, mixed with a little phosphate of soda and ammonia, produced probably by the influence of heat upon the common salt, and a little acid phosphate of ammonia. The latter he supposes probably to exist in the juice, of which he gives the composition as follows:— Water, 99- f Acid phosphate of lime, 1 Salts. •< Acid phosphate of ammonia, ( Common salt, I i Aromatic principle, f Organic. •< Mucus, | (_ Peculiar matter, J In this table there is no mention of vegetable matter, showing that his experiments had been made only with animal substances. Gastric juice is neutralized by carbonates and bicarbonates of potash, soda, and ammonia, the neutral phosphate of lime being precipitated. The same effect is produced by the neutral and alkaline subphosphates, except in the absence of effervescence. QuickTime neutralizes the acidity with pre- cipitation of neutral phosphate and disengagement of ammo- nia. When the food has been converted into chyme by the gastric juice, it is pushed forward by the contractions of the stomach into the duodenum, the first portion of the small intestines, into which the pan- creatic juice as well as the contents of the gall bladder are poured. Here, therefore, the chyme is mixed with the bile and the pancreatic juice. Its acidity now gradually dis- appears. By the contractions of the successive portions of the intestines, it is steadily pro- pelled along. During this course it separates by degrees into chyle, which is absorbed by the lacteals; and into the innutritious and indigestible matter, which is carried onward along the intestinal canal. The chyle is to be regarded as blood in an early stage of formation. As it is mixed with the blood just before its entrance into the lungs, and as it never can be recognized after the blood has emerged from that organ, it is probable that it undergoes some vital change here which completes its assimilation, but of the nature of this change we are ignorant. In conclusion, it is important to bear in mind, that the whole process of digestion, although perfectly uninfluenced by any voluntary act of the mind, yet is materially affected by mental emotions and sensations, and that the secretion of gastric juice by the stomach appears to be very remarkably under such influence. ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY. CHAPTER XXIII. ON THE FACULTIES OF SENSATION AND PERCEPTION.—ORGAN OF TASTE. The sense of taste is described to be that which results from the contact of certain substances, termed sapid, upon the tongue, gums, and palate. It is, however, dependent on common sensation, along with that of smell produced by the odour arising from many bodies. The uses of taste, besides its being a source of enjoyment, are to excite the flow of the saliva and mucus which are to prepare the food for the stomach, and to inform us of qualities in the objects which excite it, which bear a certain relation to their salubrity and digestibility. This latter use is better exemplified in animals than in the human species, although in man, during sickness, it is generally a very safe guide. The structure of the tongue, the principal organ of taste, presents stronger analogies with that of the skin than any other organ. Its minute anatomy need not be dwelt on here. The accompanying figure will give the reader a sufficiently accurate idea of the larger muscles and nerves composing the bulk of the organ. By consulting the note containing the explanation of fig. 1, he will readily enough under- stand the general form of the organ, and its connections. The whole tongue is extremely mobile in every sense; and the strong and large muscles enumerated below connect it with the lower jaw and hyoid bones. These are also called, from this circumstance, lingual bones, from lingua, the tongue. These muscles enter deeply into its composition; but there are also numerous layers of muscles which may bo called intrinsic, because they do not go to or come from any other part, but are limited solely to the tongue. By means of these the tongue may be elongated, and even be made to protrude from the mouth; again withdrawn and forced to strike against the teeth and palate ; or sweep the inside of a, The Glosso-Pharyngeal. I, The Hypoglossal motor, or ninth pair. c, The Lingual branch of the fifth pair, called Gustatory. d, The Epiglottis. the mouth, or passed up between the cheek and jaws. The epiglottis, or covering of the air-passages, follows the move- ments of the tongue; hence the danger of keeping the tongue protruded from the mouth, and at the same time at- tempting to swallow food or drink, or indeed any body what- ever. All the upper and a portion of the lower surface, together with the sides of the tongue, is invested in man, and of course in animals resembling him generally, with a re- flexion of the common integuments of the body, or at least with a prolongation of what is called the mucous membrane. On the surface may be seen a number of projecting points, called papillie, which, like all the rest of the surface, is covered with epithelium or scarf-skin. The fur covering the tongue in fevers and other disorders, is probably an altered and vitiated secretion of this epidermis, secreted of course by the subjacent vascular layers. When rubbed en- tirely off at any point, the papilla? are found to be most acutely sensible. Beneath this epithelium is the pigmentum, and the lingual rete-mucosum, as in other parts of the skin. The pigment is not visible in man, but is evident in the tongues of many animals: these parts are epidermic, and of course 1