ART, SCIENCE, MECHANICS, AND ENGINEERING. 385 extra-vascular and squamous. Beneath these epidermic parts is found the chorion or true skin, and into this a great number of muscular fibres are inserted on its deep surface ; whilst on the other surface, immediately covered by the epidermic parts, numerous nervous papillae project, almost forming a continuous layer, which, however, cannot be separated distinctly from the chorion. These papillae are vascular and nervous, and probably form the true gustatory part. They are differently arranged, and seem even to have different forms in different animals; in man, they have been arranged as follows:—1st, The large or caliciform papillae towards the base of the tongue; 2d, The conical; 3d, The tenticular; 4th, The filiform. These may all have different functions; but this is a point not well under- stood. The nerves of the tongue are three on each side, and they are of great size. The ninth pair of nerves supplies its muscles, and a large branch of the fifth pair, and a divi- sion of the glosso-pharyngeal, are also distributed chiefly to its surfaces. The glosso-pharyngeal nerve—we mean, of course, its lingual portion—is distributed chiefly to the sur- face at the base of the tongue ; the fifth pair towards the apex ; the ninth pair to the muscles throughout. An injury done the ninth pair, has been known to destroy the muscular power of the tongue, without affecting its sensibility or its gustatory powers. The cavity of the mouth in which the tongue is placed, communicates at most times with another cavity placed im- mediately behind it, called the pharynx ; but the orifice of communication may be, and is frequently closed by the de- scent of the soft palate, and elevation of the base of the tongue. The muscular action effecting this takes place generally involuntarily, or, as it may be termed, instinc- tively ; and hence the occasional necessity for depressing the tongue with the handle of a spoon, or such other body, when we are desirous of examining into the state of the cavity beyond it. Large portions of the tongue have been removed without much interfering with speech or deglutition. A deep wound at the base of the tongue is always danger- ous, and but too often fatal. In the centre of the tongue is a palate or layer of a pecu- liar elastic substance, analogous to what we find in the back of the neck of sheep, oxen, and horses ; and two large arte- ries supply the substance of the tongue with blood. Cor- responding veins return the blood from these arteries. The frenum, or bridle of the tongue, is a fold of mem- brane binding down a portion of the inferior surface of the tongue, but leaving the apex free. When too short in new- born children, it requires being divided by the surgeon. The operation ought to be performed with great caution ; and, moreover, it is seldom requisite. We have alluded above to the free though occasionally interrupted communication between the mouth and the cavity placed behind it—namely, the bag of the pharynx. By this aperture in man, air passes as readily to the windpipe and lungs as it does by the nostrils. It would seem, how- ever, that in some animals, as in the horse, the passage of communication is not equally free, and is only fully opened when the food and drink are pressing from the one cavity to the other, it being generally understood that the horse can- not breathe by the mouth: he attempts it, however, when distressed, but probably without much real benefit. In like manner, it is almost certain that neither the elephant nor whales generally can ever, under any circumstances, breathe by the mouth. The tongue, whose anatomy we have just described, is admitted by all to be the organ of taste. According to most physiologists, it is even perhaps still maintained to be the only part capable of perceiving the sapid qualities of bodies, this power being denied by them to any other part of the mouth. The phreno-mesmerist himself has not yet ventured to assert that an infusion of quassia may be distinguished from sugar and water by the extremities of our fingers or toes. Ihe experiments of the ingenious and accurate Weber led to the conclusion, that neither in the palate, nor in any VOL. II. other part of the mouth, is there any perception of taste. It is possible, however, that, in this respect, different persons are differently constituted; and it would appear that some individuals do really possess a power of tasting with the soft palate or uvula, and even with the ceiling of the mouth or hard palate. Ag;ain, much disputation has been held in regard to the portion of the tongue itself which may be sup- posed the most gifted with the perceptive gustatory powers; nor is this an idle question, seeing that it has a reference to the distribution of the nerves of the tongue, whose general course has been already described. The hypoglossal, or great lingual nerves, are now' universally admitted to be the nerves of motion of the tongue; but whilst the branch of the fifth pair is considered by some as the proper gustatory nerve, others claim this function for the glosso-pharyngeal (see the figure); and others think that both nerves may be required, or that both are essential for a right perception of sapid bodies. The reader is here reminded, that three distinct nerves pro- ceed on either side into the tongue—namely, the ninth pair, or hypoglossal; a large branch of the fifth pair; and a division of the eighth pair, called the glosso-pharyngeus, from its supplying, in part at least, both the tongue and the bag of the pharynx, that cavity into which the food is received from the mouth, and which is in fact placed between the mouth and the gullet. The difficulty with regard to these nerves is this: if the branch of the fifth pair, which supplies the tongue, be a nerve of special sensation, it would require to be shown especially how this happens, seeing that the other branches of the same pair of nerves are merely nerves of common sensation. The same remark applies in some measure to the glosso-pharyngeal. Comparative anatomy does not furnish data to solve these questions. The tongue of birds, it is said, receives no branches from the fifth pair; yet the su'an and the parrot are said to taste acutely. Most birds, however, seem to be ex- tremely deficient in taste, the duck especially; but it might not be correct to say, that even in them the sense is wholly wanting. A strong epithelial or epidermic layer, and even spires, protect the surface of the tongue in many animals; structures by no means adapted to fit it for a delicate organ of special sensation, or to improve its qualifications in this respect. But at the same time it is to be remembered that in many animals, as the chameleon, the ant-eater, the giraffe, and even, perhaps, the ox, the tongue serves as an instrument of prehension, as well as of taste. Cruel and but too frequently unnecessary experiments on living animals have shown that, by cutting across in the living animal one pair of nerves supplying the tongue, the motions of the tongue cease; but this class of experimenters (for the honour of humanity, it is pleasing to think that it is not a numerous class) are by no means agreed as to the effects w’hich follow a section in the living animal of the other nerves supplying the tongue. Paniaza, one of the most mi- nute anatomists, able surgeons, and distinguished physiolo- gists of modern times, attempted thus to solve the question in regard to the functions of that nerve we call the glosso- pharyngeal; but it may be said that he failed. Some excel- lent observers are still opposed to his views. The loss of the power of taste is rare, but it sometimes happens. It is undoubtedly a great misfortune. We have known persons so affected terminate their career by suicide. The coincidence, how'ever, may have been purely accidental. Mechanical and galvanic stimulants applied to the tongue excite vague sensations, which no doubt, however, bear some analogy to sensations of taste. Again, many experiments have been made to determine w’hat portions of the tongue are best endowed with gustatory properties; and it seems generally agreed, that the lower surface of the tongue, and the back part of the upper surface, are best endowed with such properties. Few persons can taste with the point of the tongue. The anterior half of the upper surface of the tongue is scarcely, if at all, equal to the perception of sapid bodies; and it has even been observed that certain sub- stances give different sensations when applied to different 3 C