and disputes arose as to whom the property, which had thus shifted, should belong. “ From this account of Dolomieu,” says Mr. Lyell, “ we might anticipate, as the result of a continuance of such earthquakes, first, a longitudinal valley following the line of junction of the older and newer rocks,; secondly, greater disturbance in the newer strata near the point of contact, than at a greater distance from the mountains phenomena very common in other parts of Italy, at the junction of the Appenine and Subappenine formations.” Many fissures and chasms which had been formed by the previous, were greatly widened by succeeding shocks. Grimaldi mentions a new ravine, in the territory of San Fili, half a mile long, 2^ feet broad, and 25 feet deep; another nearly a mile long, 105 feet wide, and 30 feet deep; another three-quarters of a mile long, 150 feet broad, and above 100 feet deep ; and one at La Fortuna, nearly a quarter of a mile long, above 30 feet in breadth, and 225 feet deep; one, of which the following is a drawing, occurred near the town of Oppida, in the side of'a hill, 500 feet long, and 200 feet deep. composed of modern marine strata, immensely thick, generally of calcareous clay, of a very yielding nature, which was greatly dis- turbed, and assumed a variety of new forms, under control of the irresistible force acting upon it. The earth exhibited a variety of motions, whirling like a vortex, horizontal, or by pulsations or beat- ings from the bottom upwards. Valievs underwent extensive and striking alterations, through the precipitation into them of masses from the neighbouring hills. Fissures, radiating from a central point, or single horizontal openings of the ground, appeared in various places, as at Poli3tena, where the ground was rent asunder to a great length and depth, A permanent chasm in the district of Rosiano was a mile long, upwards of a hundred feet broad, and thirty deep. Some Chasm formed near Oppida in 1783. In the district of Fosolana, three gulfs opened ; one, 300 feet square, and above 30 feet deep ; another, about half a mile long, 15 feet broad, and above 30 feet deep. Dolomieu and Sir William Hamilton made a personal examination of the surface of the Calabrias after the earthquakes, which continued from the beginning of 1783 to the close of 1786, and their survey illustrates the superficial changes produced by the action of such Circular hollows at Poiistena. Vf these fissures, after swallowing up houses and men, closed and (pgned again, so that property' was recovered, and the victims of the catastrophe were restored to the rites of burial. In the plains, a con- siderable number of circular hollows were formed, filled with water or sand, a consequence of the vorticose or whirling motion of the earth, and on digging down, they were found to be funnel-shaped, and the moist loose.sand in the centre, up which the water spouted. Section of one of lilt: oileuiar hol.ou s to. mod inutile pin u of Rosiano. ART, SCIENCE, MECHANICS, AND ENGINEERING. About 40,000 persons are said to have perished amidst the catas- trophes of the Calabrian earthquakes, and about 20,000 more died of the epidemics which ensued. We shall conclude these accounts with a brief notice of three most remarkable and disastrous earthquakes; namely, those which oc- curred in Jamaica in 1692, at Lisbon in 1755, and at Melfi, near Naples, a few months ago. The weather had been sultry in Jamaica up to the month of May, when it became very' windy and rainy from the end -pf the month till the 7th of June, —it was excessively hot on the fore- noon of that day, when not a cloud was to be seen in the sky', or a breath of air to fan the feverish cheek. A small trembling noise heralded a hollow loud rumbling like that of distant thun- der ; that was succeeded by a violent shock, which, in one minute, shook Port Royal to its foundation, and three parts of the town with its inhabitants sunk, and were instantly overwhelmed with the rush of the ocean. The houses and wharfs sunk to the Fissures at rolistena. Those provinces have been subject to such visitations since the first Greek colonists landed on their shores, but the most terrible instances in modern times occurred in 1633 and 1783, in the latter of which Sicily largely' participated, 'lhc soil of the mainland is chiefly