'270 THE IMPERIAL JOURNAL OF racy of investigation, as that which here displayed the philoso- phical powers of this extraordinary triumvirate. In the year 1741, Euler was invited to Berlin to direct and assist the academy that was there rising into fame. On this occasion he enriched the last volume of the Miscellanies (Me- langes) of Berlin with five memoirs, which form an eminent, perhaps the principal, figure in that collection. These were fol- lowed, with amazing rapidity, by a great number of important researches, which are dispersed through the memoirs of the Prussian academy; a volume of which has been regularly pub- lished every year since its establishment in 1714. The labours of Euler will appear more particularly astonishing, when it is considered that, while he was enriching the academy of Berlin with a profusion of memoirs, on the deepest parts of mathemati- cal science contained always under some new points of view, and often replete with sublime truths, and sometimes discoveries of great importance, he still continued his philosophical contribu- tions to the Petersburg academy, whose memoirs display the marvellous fecundity of his genius. In 1760, the Russian army, under General Tottenberg, pene- trated into the Marche of Brandenburg, and pillaged a farm which Euler possessed near Charlottenberg. As soon as the Russian general was informed of the event, he immediately re- paired the loss by a large sum ; and, upon giving notice of the circumstance to the Empress Elizabeth, she added to the in- demnity a present of 4000 florins. This act of generosity had, no doubt, a powerful effect in attaching Euler to the Russian government, which, notwithstanding his absence, had always paid him the pension which it granted him in 1742. Having received an invitation from Catharine II., he obtained, in 1766, with considerable difficulty, permission from the king of Prussia to return to Petersburg, where he wished to pass the remainder of his days; but soon after his return, he was seized with a violent disorder, which ended in the total loss of his sight: a cataract, formed in his left eye, which had been essentially damaged by the loss of the other eye, and too close an application to study, deprived him entirely of the use of that organ. It- was in this distressing situation that he dictated to his servant—a tailor’s apprentice, who was absolutely devoid of mathematical know- ledge—his Elements of Algebra; which, by their intrinsic merit in point of perspicuity and method, and the unhappy circum- stances in which they were composed, have equally excited the wonder and applause of the learned. This work, though purely elementary, plainly exhibits the proofs of an inventive genius ; and it is perhaps here alone that we meet with a complete theory of the Diophantine analysis. About this time M. Euler was honoured by the Academy of Sciences at Paris with the place of one of the foreign members of that learned body; after which, the academical prize was ad- judged to three of his memoirs, Concerning the Inequalities in the Motions of the Planets. The two prize questions proposed by the same Academy for 1770 and 1772, were designed to ob- tain from the labours of astronomers a more perfect Theory of the Moon. M. Euler, assisted by his eldest son, was a compe- titor for these prizes, and obtained them both. In this last memoir, he reserved for further consideration several inequalities of the moon’s motion, which he could not determine in his first theory, on account of the complicated calculations in which the method he then employed had engaged him. lie afterwards re- vised his whole theory, with the assistance of his son and Messrs Krafft and Lexell; and pursued his researches till he had con- structed the new tables, which appeared, together with the great work, in 1772. Instead of confining himself, as before, to the fruitless integration of three differential equations of the second degree, which are furnished by mathematical principles, he re- duced them to the three ordinates which determine the place of the moon: and he divided into classes all the inequalities of that planet, as far as they depend either on the elongation of the sun and moon, or on the eccentricity, or the parallax, or the inclina- tion of the lunar orbit. All these means of investigation, em- ployed with such art and dexterity as could only be expected from a genius of the first order, were attended with the greatest success ; and it is impossible to observe without admiration, such immense calculations on the one hand, and on the other the in- genious methods employed by this great man to abridge them, and to facilitate their application to the real motion of the moon. But this admiration will become astonishment, when we consider at what period and in what circumstances all this was effected. It was when our author was totally blind, and, consequently, obliged to arrange all his computations by the sole powers of his memory and his genius : it was when ha was embarrassed in his domestic affairs by a dreadful fire that had consumed great part of his substance, and forced him to quit a ruined house, every corner of which was known to him by habit, which in some mea- sure supplied the want of sight. It was in these circumstances that Euler composed a work which alone was sufficient to render his name immortal. Some time after this, the famous oculist Wentzell, by couch- ing the cataract, restored sight to our author ; but the joy pro- duced by this operation was of short duration. Some instances of negligence on the part of his surgeons, and his own impatience to use an organ whose cure was not completely finished, deprived him a second time and for ever of his sight,—a relapse which was also accompanied with tormenting pain. With the assistance of his sons, however, and of Messrs Krafft and Lexell, he continued his labours : neither the infirmities of old age, the loss of his sight, nor the acuteness of the pain, could quell the ardour of his genius. lie had engaged to furnish the Academy of Peters- burg with as many memoirs as would be sufficient to complete its acts for 20 years after his death. In the space of 7 years he transmitted to the Academy above 70 memoirs; and above 200 more, left behind him, were revised and completed by a friend. Such of these memoirs as were of ancient date were separated from the rest, and form a collection that was published in the year 1783, under the title of Analytical Works. The general knowledge of our author was more extensive than could well be expected, in one who had pursued, with such un- remitting ardour, mathematics and astronomy as his favourite studies. He had made a very considerable progress in medical, botanical, and chemical science. What was still more extraor- dinary, he was an excellent scholar, and possessed in a high de- gree what is generally called erudition. He had attentively read the most eminent writers of ancient Rome ; the civil and literary history of all ages and all nations was familiar to him ; and foreigners, who were only acquainted with his works, were astonished to find in the conversation of a man, whose long life seemed solely occupied in mathematical and physical researches and discoveries, such an extensive acquaintance with the most interesting branches of literature. In this respect, no doubt, he was much indebted to a very uncommon memory, which seemed to retain every idea that was conveyed to it, either from reading or from meditation. lie could repeat the vEncid of Virgil, from the beginning to the end, without hesitation, and indicate the first and last line of every page of the edition he used. He car- ried on his mind the most complicated calculations. With the design of instructing his grandchildren in the extraction of roots, he formed a table of the first six powers of all numbers up to 100, and he recollected them with the utmost accuracy. Several attacks of vertigo, in the beginning of September, 1783, which did not prevent his computing the motions of the serostatic globes, were however the forerunners of his mild pas- sage out of this life. While he was amusing himself at tea with one of his grandchildren, he was struck with an apoplexy, which terminated his illustrious career at 76 years of age. M. Euler’s constitution was uncommonly strong and vigorous. His health was good ; and the evening of his long life was calm and serene, sweetened by the fame that follows genius, the public esteem and respect that are never withheld from exemplary- vir- tue, and several domestic comforts, which he was capable of feeling, and therefore deserved to enjoy. The catalogue of his works has been printed in 50 pages, 14 of which contain the manuscript works.—The printed ones con- sist of works published separately, and works to be found in the memoirs of several Academies, viz., in 38 volumes of the Peters- burg Acts (from 6 to 10 papers in each volume);—in several volumes of the Paris Acts ;—in 26 volumes of the Berlin Acts (about 5 papers to each volume);—in the Acta Eruditorum, in 2 volumes -in the Miscellanea Taurinensia ;—in vol. 9 of the Society of Ulyssingue ;—in the Ephemerides of Berlin ;—in the Memoires de la Societe CEconomique for 1766 ;—and in the Philos. Trans, by seven memoirs, from vol. 44 to vol. 62.