ART, SCIENCE, MECHANICS, AND ENGINEERING. 159 ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY. CHAPTER XIX. THE INTESTINES. The intestines form a membranous tube nearly six times the length of the body, about five-sixths of this length belonging to the small intestines, and about one-sixth to the large. The small intestines are the canals into which the chyme is received from the stomach ; and when digestion is com- pleted, the large serve chiefly as receptacles for the refuse which is to be expelled from the body. In the figure, the small intestine is seen commencing from the smaiier or right ex- tremity of the sto- mach, and passing to the right side. It lies close below the liver, and turning downward, receives from it the gall- duct, and from the pancreas, the duct bringing its secre- tion, so that these fluids may mingle with the food; then going across the spine to the left, it twists and forms a great number of convolutions which lie chiefly in the middle of the belly, round about the navel, and finally terminate in the large intestine, in the right flank. In the drawing, the turns are not represented exactly as they are placed in the belly, but as separated and spread out in order to render them distinct. Neither is the small intestine represented by more than half its proper length ; otherwise the numerous convolutions would have made the whole figure quite confused. The whole intestine is lined with a continuation of the velvety mem- brane which lines the stomach, and which is constantly moistened by a mucous secretion. The thickness of the gut is formed of muscularfibres, arranged in two layers, as seen at the left end of the figure, the outer layer being longitudinal, and the inner layer circular. When these fibres contract, their effect is to narrow the gut, as in the middle of the figure, and at the same time to draw the portion next farther down, upward to the contracted part, over the contained food, just as one draws up a stocking over the foot that is pushed into it. The effect of the gradual and generally uniform contrac- tion of these fibres is to propel the food downward ; and if the belly of an animal newly killed be opened, the bowels are seen moving in the manner of a bunch of earth-worms creeping through among one another,—whence the name of vermicular motion, which has been given to it. The gall- ducts enter the small intestine about six inches after it leaves the stomach; and the moment the bile mingles with the chyme, a chemical change takes place, and the separation of the nutritious parts from the refuse begins to go on. A creamy-looking white fluid appears on the surface of the food, next to the mucous membrane, and is sucked up by an infinity of small vessels called the absorbents, which will be described by and by. In performing all this process, the obvious use of the great length of the alimentary canal is, that every part of the food may be turned about, and be suc- cessively7 presented to the mouths of those vessels, so as to have its nourishing particles fully removed. The food there- fore becomes gradually thicker and drier as it passes dowrn, and is stained of a yellow colour from the admixture of bile; but it still remains perfectly sweet, and without any bad smell, until it gets into the large intestines, where it puts on the character of faces, or useless matter. The large intestine is seen to commence by a blind end, into the side of which the small intestine opens. A valve is here placed to prevent the regurgitation of the faecal matter into the small bowels ; and this it always does, except the force exerted to overcome it be very considerable. A figure of this very curious structure would have been shown here, but it is one of those parts of which no idea can be given by a draw- ing to a person unacquainted with them ; they require to be seen and handled before they can be appreciated, and there are many such in the body. (A similar remark, by the by, wras made in describing the valves of the heart.) A curious appendage, about the size of a large earthworm, is seen hanging from the blind end of the large gut, which in man is merely rudimentary. In purely graminivorous animals, the intestines are much longer than in man, and have several of those contrivances for delaying the less nourishing food upon w’hich they subsist, until all its useful particles, can be ab- sorbed, In carnivorous animals, again, the intestinal canal is short, because their food is so highly nutritious, that its digestion is very quickly completed. Man occupies an in- termediate place between these, and his bowels, like his teeth, indicate distinctly the mixture of the food which he is intend- ed to derive from both the animal and vegetable kingdoms. From this blind pouch, then, the great gut ascends in the right flank, crosses over the belly below the stomach, de- scends in the left flank, forms a tw’ist like the letter S, and then turns into the pelvis to open outwardly at the anus. It has already been stated that the nourishing part of the food, the chyle, is absorbed from the intestines by an infinity of small vessels, having a close affinity to veins. Their struc- ture is very like that of veins, being provided with valves, giving them a knot- ted appearance, which prevent the fluid they convey from taking a re- trograde course. They are not more than the thirtieth of an inch in dia- meter, and are so transparent, that they are not visible when empty. If a dog be killed about two hours after a full meal, these ves- sels are seen in great numbers arising from the bowels, and filled with a white milky fluid, whence they receive the name of lacteals, (Latin, lac, milk). These vessels unite at the right side of the spine into a trunk about the size of a goose-quill, which at length pours its contents, containing all the nourishment of the body, (except the watery parts which seem to be taken up by the veins,) into the great vein of the upper part of the body, at the junction of the neck with the shoulder. It will be understood from this description, that since the new fluid is poured into a vein, not into an artery, it must necessarily be exposed to the air j in the lungs, along with the current of the venous blood ; ! this process probably completing its change into blood before ■ it is circidated over the body. There is another set of vessels of precisely the same kind, | called lymphatics, which are very difficult to discover in dis- section, because the fluid which they convey is not milky, but transparent lymph. These arise from every part of the