THE IMPERIAL JOURNAL OF mary and transition rocks in nodules or irregular masses, in v 11G very circle of the lucid cornea, (or window of the eye,) and these very white and shining tendons anteriorly, form what is called the white of the eye. The rectus externus, is the muscle nearest the temple, and is a little longer than the rectus interims nearest the nose. The rectus superior, is above, the rectus inferior, below, and are both of equal length. The eye is thus entirely surrounded with its muscles, which turn and move it mechani- cally in all directions, either for looking accurately at sma , large, near, and distant objects, or expressing the emotions and passions of the mind. Strabismus, or squinting, is caused by one or more of the m s- cles of the eye being shortened or elongated ; ana by the derange- ment of their action, the pupil is consequently carried out of the proper axis of vision. It is cured by a very simple operation, lhe shortened or elongated muscle is cut down upon and di vided by a skil- ful operator. The false position of the pupil is immediately recti- fied by the division of the diseased muscle, that induced obliquity bv its irregular action. Inflammation is subsequently preven ed, or removed, by proper applications. The divided muscle in healing shortens, or lengthens; and during the healing process, suits it- self to the exigences of the case, and in a short time reunites. All the muscles of the eye now act in harmony, and the squint- ing is radically removed. No person need submit for any length oAime to obliquity of vision, so long as he can be effectua y cured by submitting to this simple, and not very dangerous operation. But like other surgical operations it is sometimes unsuccessful; and a case lately happened, in which, after the operation by a surgeon, the patient was rendered blind of the defective eye. . „ , , , There are four muscles in the lower jaw. 1st. The temporal, arises from the flat side of the parietal bone at the side of the head and the sphenoid and frontal bones in that hollow, behin the eye, where they meet to form the squamous suture ; it also arises from the inner surface of that strong tendinous membrane, which is extended from the jugum, or yoke, to the semicircu ar ridge of the parietal bone, at the side of the head, lhe muscle is pyramidal, its rays converge towards the jugum, its tendon passes under it, and is inserted into the coronoid process of the lower jaw. It pulls the lower jaw firmly up, and when we bite, it swells on the flat part of the temple, so as to be felt outwardly. 2d. The masseter, a short, thick, fleshy muscle, which gives the visible rounding to the cheek, arises from the upper jawbone, and covers the branch of the lower jaw, quite down to its angle, where it is inserted. The parotid gland lies on its upper portion, and the duct of the gland, crossing the cheek, lies over the muscle. It pulls up the jaw, and when wc bite, it is felt swelling on the back part of the cheek. 3d. Ftery- o-oideus internus, arises from the internal flat pterygoid process of the sphenoid bone, and goes inwardly to the angle of the lower jaw. 4th. Pterygoideus externus, arises from the outside of the external plate of the pterygoid process of the sphenoid bone, and the adjoining part of the upper maxillary or cheek- bone, and is inserted into the neck of the condyle of the lowei jaw, and to the upright part of the bone and capsule of its joint. The lower jaw is chiefly moved by these four muscles. .1 ie temporal muscle acts on the coronoid process of the lower jaw- bone like a lever, and raises it. The masseter muscle acts before the temporal muscle on the angle of the lower jaw, and Utts it. The pterygoideus internus acting within the lower jawbone balances the action of the masseter on the outside. In biting, holding, and tearing our food with our teeth, these three muscles pull the lower jaw very forcibly upward. The fourth muscle, or pterygoideus externus, going from within, outward from its origin to its insertion, naturally pulls the lower jaw from side to side in chewing, and performs the motion of grinding t ie 10 • There are two muscles that lie on the fore part of the necli and move the head. 1st. Platysma myoides, a very thin mus- cular expansion, spreading over the other muscles of the necK and throat, and extending upward on the lower part ot the tace and lower jaw. It supports the parts of the neck, compresses the veins, and, in difficult breathing, forces the blood down into the chest. It is more a muscle of respiration and circulation than o mental expression ; yet in some of the most violent passions, i is very active and effective in their malignant exhibition. ■ toideus is the finest and most conspicuous muscle of the body, giving the fleshy roundness to the neck, and rising up w ion in action, it produces the most beautiful contour in the nec s o men and women. It begins by a strong tendon from the trian- gular position of the sternum, or breast-bone, and from the sternal portion of the clavicle (or collar bone,) by a broad and fleshy origin, and is inserted into the mastoid angle of the tem- poral bone, at the side of the head. When the mastoid muscles act in unity on both sides of the head, they pull the head down- ward, and bring the chin in contact with the chest. M hen one only acts on one side of the head, it pulls the ear down to the shoulder, and by twisting the neck, throws the chin a little up to one side. This muscle is subject to the disease which sometimes produces a wry neck; and it requires a correct knowledge of ana- tomy, in some cases, to discover whether the distorted neck arises from disease or palsy of the mastoid muscle, or an affec- tion of the spine. . . Before describing any more of the muscles, I will briefly enumerate the bones and cartilages that form the basis of the throat and tongue, and are the centre of their motions. 1st. Os hyoides is a small bone (resembling the lower jawbone), that forms by its basis the root of the tongue, and is sometimes called the bone of the tongue. Its horns keep the gullet and windpipe extended and it is the centre of the motions of the tongue and muscles of the throat. The trachea, (or windpipe,) conveys the air to the lungs. The larynx is the head (or figured part) of tho air-tube which is formed like a flute, for the modulation of the voice, and is composed of several cartilages, or grisly rings, that it may stand firm and uncompressed ; were it otherwise, the windpipe would be liable to collapse, and induce suffocation. It has five principal cartilages :—1st. The thyroid cartilage, makes that prominence on the middle of the throat called pomum Adami, or apple of Adam. Its two long horns at its upper corners rise like hooks above the line of the cartilage, and are joined to the horns of the os hyoides, or bone of the tongue. 2d. The cricoid cartilage lies next the thyroid, and below it; and on its back, or deeper part, internally, are seated two small cartilages, which, with their ligaments, form the opening of the windpipe, for the admission of air into the lungs. 3d. and 4th. The arytenoid car- tilages are two in number, and seated within for protection of the°thyroid cartilage, and are covered with the common mem- brane of the throat, which is thick and full of mucous glands ; and betwixt these ligaments, the rima glottides, or chink, is formed for opening a passage into the tube of the trachea, or windpipe. The voice is in a considerable degree formed by the motion of these cartilages with their ligaments; and the action of their muscles is so exquisitely minute, that for every change of tone, and there are thousands of changes in the human voice, they move in a proportionally minute degree to effect it. 5th. The epiglottis is fixed to the thyroid cartilage, the bone and root of the tongue, and in action executes the part of a key to a wind instrument. It defends and shuts the rima glottides, or opening into the windpipe, especially when we swallow food or liquids, and by covering the opening, prevents the smallest morsel or drop from entering the windpipe ; for a morsel passing into tho windpipe would cause instant suffocation and death. The rare- ness of such accidents indicates its perfect mechanism and utility, and causes us to admire the infinite wisdom and skill of our almighty Creator and Preserver. In mv next essay I will proceed with the muscles. GEOLOGY. CHAPTER IV. DESCRIPTION OP THE ELEMENTARY SUBSTANCES WHICH ENTER INTO THE COMPOSITION OF THE EARTH, AND ME1R MORE IMMEDIAT COMPOUNDS. IV. Metals. Manganese forms a constituent of many minerals. The black oxide is found native in great abundance. The native pero*id. occurs crystallized and compact in Devonshire, Somersetshire, and in Aberdeenshire. The crystals often occur with the sul- phate of barytes and are found radiated in rhomboidal dark-g J coloured prisms. Oxide of manganese occurs principally m pri-