THE IMPERIAL JOURNAL OF 446 the auditory nerves to the brain. Pulsations oi the air, water, or solid bodies, are communicated to the ultimate fibrils, of these nerves, and the changes produced in them, extending to the brain, are perceived by us as sounds. The external ear and its associated apparatus, may be con- sidered as conductors of sound. It is quite certain, how- ever, that the loss of the externa! ear has in numerous cases interfered in no shape with the accurate perception of sounds. On the other hand, the external ear in many' animals, as the horse, ox, dog, &c., must perform the functions of a real acoustic tube. But we shall adhere chiefly to the ear of man throughout the following observations. It is presumed that sounds pass usually along the external passage of the ear towards the drum of the ear, against which they impinge, and cause it to vibrate. This passage of the ear is unquestionably an important part in ordinary or nor- mal hearing. A number of fine hairs grow within the tube; the walls are formed partly of the common integuments of the body reflected inwards. Even the scarf skin itself passes quite to the bottom of the tube, and is reflected entire over the drum of the ear. Besides this, a series of small glands exist here, whose office is to secrete the peculiar substance called the wax of the ear ; a deficiency of this wax affects the utility of the organ very considerably ; so also perhaps, a too great abundance of wax, or its altered qualities. In eager listening, the mouth opens instinctively, and this has been supposed to widen the tube of the ear, by altering the position of the condyle of the lower jaw bone. The dullness of hearing in very young children has been ascribed to the natural narrowness of the auditory tube in them ; but other causes, no doubt, contribute to this. . In dullness or loss of hearing, the remedial means within the power of the surgeon are nearly confined to the condi- tion of this part of the organ, the external tube, and to the drum of the ear. For this reason, the most careful examina- tion should always be made of these parts, even in those who have been reputed deaf from infancy, for in many cases the deafness may have come on merely during infancy, and may not have been congenital. I remember the case of a person who was reputed to have been deaf and dumb from his very earliest years, and no doubt he was in reality so ; but on examining his ears after death, the tube in one was found filled with inspissated cerumen or wax, the pressure of which, apparently, on the drum, had caused a small opening to form in it; all other parts of this ear were quite sound, and of a healthy appearance ; in the other ear, the external tube vvas filled with cerumen, the drum was lost, the lining membrane of the middle ear thickened and ulcerated, and the small bones bathed in purulent matter. Now', in this ear, the diseased state was probably beyond all remedy by art; but not so the other ear ; whilst the condition of both show'ed, that with a due knowledge of the condition of the organ, and appropriate means, the hearing might have been restored. _ The structures next to be considered, with reference to these functions, are the drum of the ear, and the chain of bones contained within the cavity of the tympanum. Now the difficulties multiply exceedingly, for it cannot, I think, be shown, especially as regards the four tympanic bones, that such structures and such arrangements have any known philosophical connection with the nature of sound. It is said that entire destruction of the drum of the ear by disease is always attended with deafness or loss of hearing ; but phy- siologists of great eminence deny this statement. Even the presence of the chain of bones does not seem essential to the right performance of the function. The uses of the eustachian tube, that is, the tube connect- ing the cavity of the middle ear with the throat, are sup- posed to be to establish static equilibrium between the air within the tympanum, and that of the external atmosphere. As it is liable to become obstructed, the practice of probing it has been much in use of late years ; air also has been for- cibly driven into it with a view to overcome obstructions. OBSERVATIONS ON THE ADAPTATION OF PUBLIC BUILDINGS TO THE PROPAGATION OF SOUND, CONSISTENTLY WITH SPEECH. By William Shand, Esq. The following short observations are intended to show, by practical illustration, the difficulties that have been experienced in regard to the Economy of Speech in apartments, and also the rules and means by which this Economy may be effected. General Remarks.—It is remarkable with what devoted assiduity men of science apply themselves to discover the cause of some peculiar phenomenon in nature, which, to many, appears of little importance, and may, by the rudest mechanic, be practically exhi- bited when the principles or laws by which it is produced are under- stood. When it was discovered that the electric fluid acted by the external surfaces only of conducting bodies, to a superficial ob- server it seemed of little consequence, but much time and many experiments were necessary to determine this. When Sir Humphrey Davy discovered what led to the forma- tion of the safety-lamp, it appeared a trifling matter, but it cost that distinguished man of science much time and labour. The telescope, which brings so many distant worlds into view, is formed of bodies possessed of two simple properties—the opaque and pellucid—all else is artificial arrangement; and when optics was in its infancy, could it have been anticipated that this sci- ence would have been brought to such a height of perfection, and that many educated and able men would devote themselves solely to one department of it ? Much has been effected in the economy of heat, but it is ap- plicable in such a variety of ways, and to so many purposes, that although much of utility is known, probably still moro re- mains to be understood. Difficulties in copying an erection consistently with Acoustic Principles.—The most subtle and abstruse phenomenon in the whole range of physical science is sound, which has hitherto been an ignis fatuus. In the very limited space of a common apart- ment, individuals arc seen opening their mouths, stretching their necks, and putting the hand to the ear in order to catch that which is not, a false sound being to the ear what ocular decep- tion is to the eye. All men fancy it to be within their reach— of this various instances are at present exhibited ; and these remind us of a circumstance, related by several authorities, of some Jesuits who erected a building in imitation of one near Milan, whore the sound of a pistol shot is repeated upwards of forty times; but although the copy was in appearance the same as the original, yet it was without an echo. Desertion of Principles in copying Canon Mills, Edinburgh. Canon Mills (a place intended for the preparation of gas), where the first General Assembly of the Free Church of Scotland met, is now considered a model for the economy of speech ; and several places of worship have been erected as true acoustic copies of this edifice, which consists of, in part, an earthen floor, walls of rough solid masonry, and slates as they came from the quarry, affixed to wood as it left the saw, all being simple compact mate- rials, with rugged exteriors, having little vibratory action or sound, the solidity of the bodies and roughness of the surfaces being the principles that are favourable to articulation by pro- ducing limited undulations; but the rough surfaces occasion harsh°sound on the ear, in the ratio of their proximity to it. In the copies from the original, instead of being partly earth, the floor is all boarded and hollow under, giving out much ex- traneous sound from the action of the feet and other causes The walls, instead of being solid and rough, are lined with lath and plaster, hollow between, and smooth on the exterior, conse- quently having comparatively much more action and sound than the original ; while the roof is lined with lath and plaster, in like manner as the walls ; not anything being retained in the copies consistent with the properties of Canon Mills, except the n-eneral form, which is bad. All this deviation from the original seems strange, when it is considered that not a single atom in a sonorous body can be added or displaced, without influencing sound. It is also remarkable if an old building, intended for so foreign a purpose, and so rude, should be found more demon- j