428 THE IMPERIAL JOURNAL OF distends them, increasing their diameter, and producing the feeling communicated to the fingers placed over them, which is called the pulse. The number of the pulse is therefore the number of contractions which the heart is making in a minute. And at the moment when the ventricle dilates, the artery, having the distending force taken off, contracts on its con- tents. It would now drive part of the blood back again into the ventricle, were it not for a valve placed in the artery at its origin, which shuts down the moment the pressure comes on it backward, so that the force of the elasticity of the artery is expended in propelling the blood forward, not in an equable stream, but in successive waves. Hence when an artery is cut, the blood does not flow from it evenly, as is seen when a vein at the bend of the arm is opened, but in jets. Again, when the ventricle contracts to throw its blood into the aorta, it would throw back an equal portion into the auricle, were not a valve placed there also, wl 'ch shuts the moment the ventricle contracts. The valves are named from their situation, the first being the aortic, and the second, the auriculo-ventricular. If the blood could be constantly circulated in the same state, tins simple apparatus would suffice. But in passing through the circulation, it acquires certain impurities, derived from the wearing out of the parts through which it passes, and it is requisite that these should be got rid of, before it is permitted to make another circuit. For this purpose it is brought into contact with the air in the lungs, so as to be purified, and be changed from the dark purple colour which it acquires in its passage over the body, and be brought back again to its original scarlet. This is done in several different ways ; in some creatures by a modification of the heart, in others by a change in the arrangement of the arteries and veins. In fishes, the heart is single, just as has been described. The aorta, before giving off any branches to the body, divides into two branches, one to each side, and each of these subdi- vides into four, one for each plate of the gills. Two of these on each side are cut off in the figure, lest it should appear confused. In the gills, the blood is ex- posed to the chemical action of the air, which is con- stantly mingled with the water. Afterwards, these branches reunite into a trunk, which then subdi- vides to supply the different parts of the body. It is plain that a fish’s heart is constantly circulating ve- nous or impure blood. In the crab and lobster, the heart is single too, but it circulates pure or arterial blood. The blood passes from the heart to the body, then is collected, in an im- pure state, into a vein, which again subdivides and allows it to reach the lungs, whence it returns in a pure arterial state to the auricle, and is ready to be sent out by the verticle afresh. Tn amphibious animals, such as the frog, the circu- lation may be said to be less perfect, inasmuch as the whole blood is not purified between the times of it3 being sent over the body; and yet the heart is more complicated, being provided with an additional chamber. The great artery is seen to di- vide into a right and left branch, each of which again divides, giving a branch to the lung, and a branch to the body. The impure blood from the body returns into a right auricle by two great veins, and the pure blood from the lungs comes into a left auricle by a vein from each lung, and then the two auricles pour their contents into one com- mon ventricle, so that the blood sent over the body is neither so pure as what was in the left auricle, nor so impure as what was in the right. A low degree of purity would seem to be sufficient for the wants of these animals. In man, and all warm- blooded animals, there are two distinct hearts, one for the lungs, and one for the system, a pulmonary and a systemic heart, one for the purple blood, and one for the scarlet. They are united together so as to form one organ, that they may take up little room, and act simultaneously, the one contracting and dilating at the same time exactly as the other ; but still they are quite separate in their cavities, hav- ing no communication between them, except the circuitous one round through the lungs. In man, the pulmonary heart is placed to the right, and rather in front, the systemic one to the left, and rather behind. Plan of the Circulation in a Frog Plan of the Circulation in a CraK In the accompanying figure, the double heart is repre- sented as separated into its right and left portions.* The right heart r, is seen with its two great veins, an upper and a lower, entering the right auricle. Below the auricle is seen the ventricle, from the upper part of which the pul- monary artery, p a, arises, and divides into two branches, one for each lung. The blood having passed through the lungs, is collected by the pulmonary veins, p v, and poured into the left auricle l, from which it reaches the left ven- * In the Dugong, an animal somewhat like the seal, the right and left portions of the heart are separated nearly as much as in this imaginary figure.