ART, SCIENCE, MECHANICS, AND ENGINEERING. 161 It were a neglect did we not notice the sluggishness of the bowels, so apt to be induced in an artificial state of society, such as exists in towns. A movement of the bowels should take place every day ; but from want of time, or want of convenience, this is neglected ; the daily call is not attended to, and by and by it ceases to be made. A necessity is now felt for medicine, and this is repeated day after day, and week after week, until the health is seriously and permanently in- jured. There are plenty of pills prescribed by the regular, and advertised by the irregular practitioner, many of which are good and useful; but care should be taken to have proper ones re- commended at first, and not to persevere too long in the use of the same ones, as the bowels become habituated to the re- petition of the same stimulus, and require a new one. The use of the enema syringe, by which warm water is thrown into the gut, so as to procure an evacuation, has become very common of late years, and is very good ; for it secures the stomach and small intestines from the irritation of con- stantly repeated doses of medicine. The instrument, with directions for use, may be had at a very moderate rate from all the surgical instrument-makers. A not uncommon complaint connected with the belly, par- ticularly among the labouring population, is rupture. This consists in a portion of the bowels being forced out from its natural position, through some weak point in the walls of the bellv» forming a swelling, covered by the skin. This swelling requires to be pressed up into the belly, and means must be used to keep it from coming down again. The apparatus used is generally a truss, consisting of a steel spring covered with leather, which goes round the waist, having a pad on one end, for making pressure on the weak part. Sometimes the rupture becomes strangulated; that is to say, it swells so that it cannot be replaced, and then it would mortify ; so that death would be the inevitable consequence, were not an operation had recourse to, by which the stricture or edge of the opening is divided, so that the protruded parts are got returned. This is one of the most delicate operations in surgery, and for- tunately, when it is had recourse to in time, it is one of the most successful. The wood-cut represents the surgeon in- troducing a narrow blunt-pointed knife to divide the stricture, after having brought the bowel into view, by a careful in- cision through the superjacent parts. Tn speaking of the morbid state of the stomach and bowels, we should not omit to mention the curious, but simple means, by which poisons are now easily withdrawn from the stomach. A gum-elastic tube, about, the thickness of one’s little finger, is passed down the throat into the stomach, and a brass pump which holds about half-a-pint, is attached to the end of it. Two or three pints of warm water are now thrown into vor~ it. the stomach, to dilute the matters there, and the whole con- tents are then easily withdrawn. The syringe C3n act either as a sucking or forcing pump, so that, with fresh supplies of water, the stomach may be thoroughly washed out. MATHEMATICS. PRINCIPLES OF ALGEBRA. Chapter II.—Multiplication. 9. Our first notions of multiplication are derived from operations on whole numbers ; from these we are led to regard it as a short mode of repeating a quantity as many times as there arc units in the multiplier. We have already found it necessary to extend this fundamental signification of the term, so as to in- clude within it those cases in which the multiplier is a fraction, (Arithmetic, chap. vi. art. 7. vol. i. p. 231) ; and as the literal symbols used in algebra are necessarily general, denoting frac- tional quantities as well as whole numbers, we must understand our terms in the same enlarged sense. Thus, the direction to multiply a by b, does not necessarily imply the repetition of a, a certain number of times, for b, the multiplier, may be less than 1 ; it is simply a direction to form with the quantity represented by a, another quantity which shall have the same relation to a, that b has to 1. If 6 be formed by repetitions of 1 ; that is, supposing it to denote a whole number, then the product of a by' b will be formed by repeating a as many times as 1 is repeated to form the number b ; and if b be formed of a certain number of equal parts of 1 ; that is, supposing it to be a proper fraction, then will the product of a by 6 be formed by taking the same parts of a. The word times, which we employ in multiplication, must thus be understood to signify either repetition or partition, of the multiplicand, according as the multiplier is greater or less than 1. 10. In arithmetic we have had frequent occasion to make use of the sign X , to indicate that the quantities between which it was placed were to be multiplied together. In algebra we occasionally employ it for the same purpose : thus, a X b signi- fies, in an arithmetical sense, that the quantity a is to be multi- plied by the number b ; and in an algebraic sense we call a X b, the product of a by b. The same is also sometimes expressed by a point : thus, a'b is the same as a X b. But, the multi- plication of literal quantities is more simply expressed by writ- ing the letters in succession in the form of a word : thus, ab has the same meaning as a X b and a'b, and is more concise, and therefore usually adopted. 11. The quantity ab is therefore, in algebraic language called the product of the factors a, b ; and to multiply this product ab by another number c, we write abc, and this we call the product of the factors a, b, c. From this then we perceive that multiplication in algebra, like addition and subtraction, is merely an indication of the arithmetical operation which is to be per- formed upon the numbers represented by the literal quantities. Thus, supposing a = 4, 6 = 5, e = 6, then ab = 4 X o or 20, and abc = 4 X 5 X 6 or 120. From this, therefore, we may conclude generally, that the rule for the multiplication of simple algebraic quantities is the fol- lowing : Write the Utters consecutively in the order which is most con- venient, without the interposition of any sign; and use the sign X between numerals. The alphabetical arrangement of the letters is usually preferred. Thus, a X b X c y. d is written abed, and, reciprocally, every ex- presion, such as abc d, formed of several letters written immediately in succession to one another, designates always the product of the numbers represented by these letters. We made tacit use of this convention in Article ii., (p. 127,) when illustrating the manner of writing numerical coefficients, which, be- ing factors of the literal quantities to which they are prefixed, are obviously comprised in this rule. Thus, 6abc, indicates that the quantity abc is taken G times, and is, therefore, according to our definition, the product of the four factors, 6, a, b, c; or of the two factors, 6 and abc. 12. To indicate a multiplication in which there are several simple products having coefficients, we might apply the rule given above without error. X