ART, SCIENCE, MECHANICS, AND ENGINEERING. 3S3 digested in the stomach and bowels is introduced into the system, and mingled with the blood in a crude or half- assimilated state, and that it requires to undergo a second digestion within the blood-vessels before it is perfectly assimilated. It is a highly interesting inquiry, by what means this second digestion in the blood-vessels is effected. The analogy'-of plants would indicate the lungs as being the principal agents; for we find the crude sap brought by the sap-vessels to the leaves or organs of respiration, converted by them into the succus proprius, or true blood of the plant. The respiratory act in man is not confined to the lungs, but takes place in every part of the system to which the absorbed oxygen is carried by the arterial blood ; but it is a confirmation of the view just suggested, that at no time do we feel the want of free air more severely than soon after a full meal. In all probability, however, the process of assi- milation in the animal body is more complicated than in plants, and may require the co-operation of various organs. It is at present a matter of doubt among physiologists whe- ther the primary nutritious liquid prepared by the digestive organs is introduced into the blood through the lacteals, or through the branches of the portal vein. It cannot, however, be doubted, that when the nutritious matter is first absorbed, it is in the liquid state. It is remarkahle, therefore, that it should be found afterwards in the blood as a precipitate, or in the solid state. It may, however, be-readily conceived how this effect will be produced, when we. reflect that the food if dissolved in the stomach by an aci<iMiquid which is absorbed by the vein of the stomach will, on mingling with the blood, be at once rendered alkaline, and \frill therefore let fall whatever substances its acidity enabled it to dissolve. 'This reasoning, however, is no longer applicable if we sup- pose the white matter of the blood to be derived from the admixture with it of the alkaline chyle. A different expla- nation has been suggested. It is supposed that the white matter of the serum might be soluble in it at blood-heat, just as the muriate of ammonia and other sediments which often ap- pear in the urine upon cooling, are held in solution at the natural heat of the body. On trying the effect of artificial heat it was found that the serum became considerably clearer, but it was still opaque.— Proceedings of the Philosophical Society of Glasgow, Vol. 1. p. 231. A specimen of the white matter separated by the action of common salt and the filter, but too minute in quantity to admit of a satisfactory analysis, was found to be quite insolu- ble in ether and alcohol, while it dissolved in caustic pot- ash. On boiling it in a solution of sugar of lead, it gave traces of black sulphuret. The conclusion is, therefore, that it contained no fixed oil, and consisted most probably of a protein compound like white of egg-or muscle. A further opportunity was afforded of examining the che- mical qualities of this serum in some specimens obtained for illustration. A man about thirty years of age, after fasting eighteen hours, dined upon twenty-four oz. of a pudding, consisting of two parts wheaten flour and one part suet, seasoned with salt. Two oz. of blood taken before the meal yielded a per- fectly limpid serum. Seven ounces were taken three hours after the meal and the same quantity six hours after it. The serum from the former was like syrup, but a little white; that from the latter was milk-white. The white matter in the latter was separated by means of salt and the filter, and ap- peared similar to the substance before examined. It con- tained no fixed oil. The other specimen of serum threw- up its cream spontaneously. It left upon the filter only a trace of white matter, but a notable proportion of a fixed oil, which was easily demonstrated by merely drying the filter- ing paper and holding it between the eye and the light. It can scarcely be doubted; that this oil w-as derived from the suet of the pudding, while the white proteinaceous substance most probably represented the gluten of the flour. Thus two of the three elements of which the food consisted were found in the blood; but the starch, the most abundant of all, was sought for in vain. It was subsequently found, however, that all blood fer- ments with yeast; hence it is possible that the starch is con- verted into sugar and thus reaches the hlood in solution. Objections to the Muriatic-Acid Theory of Digestion.— It has already been stated that objections have been urged against the idea that muriatic acid exists in a free state in the stomach. The experiment upon which the theory is built is an ambiguous one, and requires some elucidation. The experiments made by Blondiot are completely opposed to the muriatic-acid theory, and, if they should prove to be accurate, will produce material changes in reference to our views of digestion. They are so important, that we shall give a short view of their nature. Blondiot distilled in the water bath 3878 grains of the gastric juice as pure as possible. The juice was collected from dogs, a quarter of an hour after giving them beef to eat, and it was deprived of the mucus and other foreign mat- ter by two filtrations. The distillation was performed with the greatest precautions in a tubulated glass retort, to which a receiver previously washed with distilled water was adapted. The heat was continued until f of the fluid had passed into the receiver, which required about 24 hours. The product was colourless—clear and limpid like water : it hud no decided taste, but it possessed a characteristic smell—it had no action on red or blue turnsol, however long it was kept in contact with it. The residue appeared at first slightly turbid ; hut after standing, during which it deposited a few flocks, which appeared to be coagulated mucus, it acquired perfect transparency. Its colour was reddish- brown—its smell was empyreumatic, its taste strongly salt and acid, and it reddened turnsol paper slightly, so that it was evident that the residue contained all the acid of the juice four times concentrated. This residue was distilled to dryness, which required several days. The product in every respect resembled the preceding, and had no action on test paper. The solid residue, 775 grains in weight in this case, soon began to attract moisture from the atmosphere, and to be converted into a soft matter of a blackish-brown colour; its odour was that of most extractive substances, its taste strongly salt and acid. Blondiot repeated this important experiment several times with precisely the same results in each case. He considers that the distillation ought to be performed slow]}-, otherwise the distilled fluid may carry over some common salt or muriate of ammonia. To distill the quantity mentioned, he required 4 or 5 days. He concludes that neither acetic nor mpriatic acid exists in a free state in the stomach. He found that on attempting to neutralise the fluid with chalk, there was no effervescence ; while the liquor retained all its acidity even after allowing the chalk to remain some days in contact with it. He then suspected the acidity to be due to phosphoric acid. He found that when chalk is added to phosphoric acid, till all effervescence ceases, the solution is still acid, which it does not lose even by long boiling; and this, he says, is the only acid which so acts with chalk. To determine this more accurately, he made the following experiments :—Having placed a quantity of gastric juice in a glass, he added a few drops of sulphuric acid. In two or three minutes, an abundant white precipitate fell, which when examined proved to be sulphate of lime. By oxalic acid a white precipitate fell, which when calcined on a plate of platinum left quicklime. Abundant precipitates were pro- duced by potash, soda, and ammonia; by lime water, still more abundant precipitates. Each of these precipitates, when collected, was found to be neutral phosphate of lime. A quantity having been dried and ignited,left a small por- tion of a grey cinder, not deliquescent, which was digested in water. The solution was not acid, did not precipitate on adding ammonia or nitrate of silver ; the residue dissolved without effervescence in muriatic acid, forming chloride of calcium; proving that this ash consisted almost exclusively of neutral phosphate of lime, the excess of phosphoric acid having been decomposed by the charcoal of the organic mat- ter and the other salts. From these facts he concludes, that the acidity of the gastric juice is due to acid phosphate of lime, or biphosphate of lime.