448 THE IMPERIAL JOURNAL OF in the solids in and surrounding an apartment, that sound must be regulated. Cross Sounds not admissible, <$'c. Necessity of regulating Undulation in the Solids.—I have already explained that neither cross sounds nor excessive sound is admissible, and that reflec- tions which reach the ear must fall on the pinna horizontally— that the undulatory motion in the reflecting bodies must be regulated ; and I shall further demonstrate the means by which this is to be effected, and those by which cross sounds are to be withheld from the ear, without exposing soft non-sonorous materials, so as to arrest the tremulous atmosphere and sound generally in an apartment. I have certainly explained enough to convince the most sceptical that it is preposterous to imagine that all that is requisite to be attended to is the mere form of a room, or that materials maybe thrown together indiscriminately, conducting and reflecting in various directions and in any degree. As sound passes with equal velocity in all directions in the at- mosphere, the first solid that the voice of a speaker must ope- rate on, is that nearest to him, and, being conducted with so much greater rapidity by the solids than in air, it must pass by the solids, and by these be given out to the atmosphere. Effects of the predominating velocity and intensity of Action and Sound in the Solids.—'For instance, supposing an apart- ment 8f> feet in length, and half this width, and that the speaker is placed in one end against the wall, the sound of his voice passes by the atoms of the solids in the walls to the other end of the room when it is only a few feet from his mouth in air, and as undulation succeeds undulation with so much greater rapidity and intensity of effect in the solids than in air, the predominating influence must be in the solids. Prevention of Echo insufficient to economise Speech.—Many suppose that preventing echo and a repetition of reflection is sufficient ; but this is only a palliation of the evils experienced, because a single reflection, although it may bo prolonged too much, is less prejudicial than a repetition of reflection. For the reasons given, irregular reflections of the voice and extraneous sounds are so general that, although the ear may not be sensible of these individually, they interfere more than we are aware with those which convey distinct and intelligible sounds to the nerve and sense of hearing. Further general observations.—In different phenomena, causes and effects vary; but, reasoning by analogy between hearing and sight, I would remark, in regard to the faculty of vision, that, if the eye be directed to two objects at the same time, perception is less in both than if concentrated on one object. Are not cross lights or rays approaching the eye in transverse directions prejudicial? and shall sound, without measure or ad- justment, be communicated to the ear with impunity? The circumstance alone of speaking without oppression and with ease in all places where the soft material has been used, is, of itself, very important, as many say they would rather speak a whole day in one place, than two hours in another place. The following hypothesis I believe to be applicable in this case :—• If several musical instruments are in tune, and operating in concert, the ear receives their sounds from a distance as if one instrument; but if any instrument gives out discordant sounds, this tends to overcome the more musical sounds and derange the whole. Precisely such are the effects produced by reflected sounds from the solids in an apartment ; in the one case, they give consistent strength and effect to each other, but in the other case they produce discord. If in a room certain of the walls are of solid masonry, and others of lath and plaster, and the ceiling is on the principles of a piano-forte sounding board, all having different degrees of action and sound operating in opposition to each other, is it possible that there can be any accordance in the sonorous effects ? Causes and effects are in this case similar to that of a complicated piece of mechanism, in which the parts do not fit and move together, but oppose each other ; for sound is entirely the offspring of mechanical action in the matter which produces or conducts it. Mode of Regulating Reflected Sounds intended to retch the ear.—The chief objects in the arrangements alluded to are to obtain reflected sounds of the voice in speech from vertical bodies, so that they may be delivered horizontally on the pinna of the ear, being obviously the direction in which this expanded vibrating lever is best calculated to receive these. All such reflected sounds must be regulated by the undulatory action in the reflecting solid, each undulation being made to conform in time and duration of sound, a3 nearly as may be, to the motion of the mechanism of the mouth in the formation of every distinct letter ; and these reflections must not be so ex- cessive as to produce any sensible reflection or echo from an opposite solid. To effect these objects, soft non-sonorous ma- terial is placed behind, and on the edges of the reflecting sono- rous bodies, according to circumstances, so as to moderate the reflections and shorten the undulations. Nature points out that the reflected sounds of the voice should fall on the ear in a horizontal direction, because the voice pro- ceeds from the mouth in this direction whether we sit or stand, and because all cross action in the atmosphere differing from this is found prejudicial. Means for Preventing Irregular Sounds from reaching the ear, fyc.—In order to prevent cross action and derangement in the sonorous atmosphere and in speech, and to keep extraneous sounds from the ear, a greater proportion of soft non-sonorous material must be placed on the unexposed parts of the ceiling and on all sonorous bodies that do not reflect horizontally ; but this soft non-elastic material must not be exposed to the atmosphere or the direct action of the voice, except on the floor, because in this case it damps the sound of the voice too much throughout an apartment. By the expansion of air in a room, it ascends, and the sound-producing vibrations naturally ascend with it, acting pre- dominantly on the roof, and not much on the floor, which is, more- over, occupied and covered by the audience to a greater or less extent. Soft material—as matting, or, in places of miscellaneous resort, saw- dust—may, therefore, be placed on the floor, without appreciable injury to the voice of the speaker. Some asphaltic compositions—with a preponderance of bitumen, to destroy their sonorous qualities—may be employed with advantage. Extraneous sounds may also be operated on by means of rough or angular surfaces, so as to cause the particles in the atmosphere to act in opposition to each other, in order to break and divide sound, and thus prevent it from reaching the ear. Nature exhibits to us the surface of the ground always in a rough state, so as to prevent any moderate degree of sound, such as emanates from the human voice, from occasioning confusion, be- cause the reflections do not reach the ear. Lath and plaster are not the most desirable materials for the lining of an apartment; and often in churches, the windows are injudi- ciously and prejudicially placed, without sufficient means being adopted to keep back from the ear the intense and irregular sound given out by the glass. THE PROPERTIES OF THE CATENARY. If a flexible cord, rope, or chain tof uniform substance and texture be hung loosely by the extremities between any two points of suspension, it being a matter of indifference whether the points be in a horizontal line, the figure which it naturally assumes and in which it remains at rest, is a peculiar curve de- nominated the catenary, a name derived from the Latin root catena, signifying a chain or cord. This curve, mechanically considered, derives its importance from its intimate connection with the construction of bridges, whether they be built on the ordinary construction of stone or cast-iron, or on the method of suspension by wfought-iron chains. In reference to the formation of the curve, we remarked that in order to secure its being correctly described, the suspended material ought to be of uniform substance and texture, the ob- ject being to have it uniformly pliable and heavy throughout its length. In fact, any want of pliability or readiness to yield to any force applied laterally, essentially alters the nature of the curve; on this account, a chain is likely to afford a more correct curve than a cord. The property of being uniformly heavy throughout is the only positive quality of the material essential to the description of the curve, and it may be stated more par- ticularly by observing that the original force by which the curve is generated is the force of gravity acting equally upon every part of the suspended line ; it follows, therefore, that the acting force may be resolved into an infinite series of smaller equal forces acting vertically at indefinitely small distances apart upon the whole length of line suspended. Let a, b, the extremities of the horizontal line A b, be the