ART, SCIENCE, MECHANICS, AND ENGINEERING. 555 ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY. CHAPTER XXVI. OP VISION (CONTINUED). SECTION III. : PHYSIOLOGY AND DISEASES OF THE EYE. The adaptation of the eye to the perception of the external world, by means of colours, is a fact which has been much enlarged upon by many philosophic and popular writers, and consequently need not be here dwelt on. The human eye may be said to be an extremely perfect organ, without claiming for it any exaggerated powers. There are animals superior, no doubt, to men in their powers of vision, as the eagle, and especially the vulture; whilst even amongst men it is not in the most gifted races that we find the strongest range of vision. In this respect, the eye of the negro, but more especially of the Hottentot and Bosjesmen of Southern Africa, far excel the European and, probably, all other races of men. The essence of the organ of vision, wherever found, con- sists in “ a series of transparent media being placed in front of a special apparatus that is, of an expansion of a portion of the nervous system having interposed between it and the external world a series of transparent media, each possessing owers of refraction, and otherwise modifying the rays of ght proceeding from luminous bodies through these media, until they impinge or affect the retina, that is, the sensitive organ, for the sake of which all the other parts were formed. Even in the leech and in the sea-worm there is a pupil admitting the rays of light into the interior of the eye. Something analogous to the lens and vitrine follow this, or are placed behind it, refracting the rays of light to the re- quisite extent, and no doubt causing them to meet in a focus upon the nervous points, or fibrillee, which are placed in the back of the organ. The evil effects which flow from an opacity of the cornea or of the lens in man, unhappily illustrate too well the necessity for the transparency of the media between the retina and the external world; deep opacities of the cornea render the organ useless by impeding or arresting the progress of the rays of light in their course towards the retina. Some ingenious attempts have lately been made to remove the opaque cornea, and replace it by a healthy transparent one taken from the eye of another animal, but it is extremely unlikely that such experiments will ever succeed on the human eye. The surface of the eye-ball in the young and healthy has a peculiar lustre, which it loses so soon as the frame suffers from debility, exhaustion, or distress of mind. The lustre may either be simply healthy and natural, or morbidly ex- alted, as in passion and during the accession of intense fever; and in mania and delirium, however induced. The im- mediate cause of the lustre of the healthy eye is probably the action of the muscles of the eye-ball maintaining it firmly in its place, pressing it against the fatty cushion against which it rests, and giving to it, in short, that tension necessary to render the cornea prominent, clear, and full. In general, as life ceases the lustre departs, although there are exceptions to this, which it would not be difficult to explain. As life ceases all the muscles of the body lose a part at least of their general tone, and so also do those within the orbit. A curious fact having reference to this was first noticed by the late Dr. John Barclay. As he was preparing by dissection some sheep’s eyes for demonstration to his class, he accidentally squeezed one of them firmly in his hand; as the pressure continued, the cornea became at first bluish, and afterwards more and more opaque, until it seemed to have lost altogether its admirable quality of perfect transparency. On relaxing the pressure, the cornea recovered its transparency. The cause of this has never been explained; but as it is a fact, that the cornea loses something of its transparency by strong j pressure exercised on the eye-ball, the circumstance may perhaps explain the confused and indistinct vision of persons labouring under the delirium of passion, in whom the muscles ■of the whole frame become violently agitated, a condition ex- tending no doubt to those within the orbit. But indistinct- ness of vision does no doubt arise in those who are passionate or mentally disturbed from another cause, which we shall shortly explain. The human eyes then, like those of all other animals, possess in health an admirable lustre, though they never glare like those of the lower animals. All that the poets have written about this is, as usual, mere nonsense and contrary to truth, to which they in general pay no respect. But there are pheno- mena to which they have attended, which, being more in ac- cordance with physiological laws, may here be noticed. A person intoxicated, or in a phrenzy of passion, or agi- tated with fear and in deep terror, sees objects double; that is, he has lost for the time the power of directing aright the axes of both eyes towards one object; hence there may be more literal truth in the remark than at first appears, “ Fear doubled his enemies.” Adverting now to the uses of the various parts of the eye, we may mention first the aqueous humour. It is to it that the cornea owes its fullness, and when this is punctured the humour escapes very readily. It is as readily restored, however, by the ordinary powers of the animal economy. Of the iris we have already spoken. In the eyes of the Saxon race it is of a blue or grey colour; in the negro, quite dark, thus partaking of the general system of coloration of the whole body. Letters have been fantastically read on it by heated imaginators. Its most remarkable, and as yet inex- plicable faculty, is that of so narrowing and expanding as to alter the dimensions of the circular aperture found in its centre (the pupil), thus admitting more or less fully into the interior of the eye the rays of light. This admirable and wonderful faculty in the iris was known to Aristotle. It could not indeed have escaped the notice of any observing person. Moreover, if a person be desired to look at a very near ob- ject, and the movements of the iris be watched, it will be seen to contract almost to a point until, the effort becoming pain- ful, it suddenly relaxes, and the pupil is restored to its former average dimensions. If he be then desired to look at a dis- tant object, the pupil may be seen to dilate. These move- ments do not imply, however, that we have any real volun- tary control over the motions of the iris, although the parrot is said to possess this; and the same may be said, I think, of the cat, lion, and tiger. To explain these movements, phy- siologists have been forced to presume the existence of certain structures in the iris which have not been fully proved; namely, radiating muscular fibres, and a sphincter muscle; as thus: Fig. 5. A view of the interior surface of the iris. b, The base by which it is fixed to the choroid tunic and annulus albus ; p, the pupil; r, the radiating fibres; s, the sphincter. Upon the whole, however, physiologists are agreed that it serves at least the same purpose as the diaphgram placed in the optical instruments to correct or prevent the indistinct- ness of vision arising from the spherical aberration of the lenses. The iris abounds with blood-vessels, and especially with nerves, and more especially in animals of quick and rapid vision, as in birds, antelopes, deer, &c.; in man also the iris is well supplied with nerves. These movements of the iris would seem, in a certain degree, to be connected with a singularly beautiful power the eye possesses of adapt-