ART, SCIENCE, MECHANICS, AND ENGINEERING. 145 touches the occipital bone, and its lower point is concealed by the constrictor-inferior. 9th, Constrictor-inferior, arises partly from the thyroid cartilage, and partly from the cricoid, and by its oblique progression it also overlaps the lower part of the con- strictor-medius. This constrictor-inferior, like the two former muscles, meets its fellow in a tendinous middle line ; and when the morsel is admitted into the pharynx, by the dilatation of its arches, it is pushed down into the oesophagus, by the united force of these three constrictor-muscles. 10th, The oesophagus is a continuation of the larynx, it lies flat upon the back-bone, and is covered through its whole length by a muscular coat, which is formed not of circular fibres, like the pharynx, but chiefly of fibres running according to its length. 11th, Vaginalis gul®, is that muscle, which like a sheath surrounds the whole mem- branous tube of the oesophagus. There are three muscles in the tongue : their thickness con- stitutes its chief bulk, and their action performs all its motions. 1st, The hyo-glossus arises from the whole length of the os- hyoides, and forms the side of the tongue : it rounds the back of the tongue, and pulls down its edges. 2d, Genio-hyo-glossus, arises by a narrow pointed origin behind the symphisis of the chin, and as it proceeds towards the tongue, and the base of the os-hyoides, spreads out like a fan, and (with its radii extending upward and backward) constitutes the greatest portion of the bulk of the tongue ; for it plies in the centre, from the root to the tip, and its fibres having a radiated mechanism, cause the tongue to perform every possible motion. The fibres which proceed backward thrust the tongue out of the mouth, and the middle fibres make the tongue hollow in its centre, and elevate its tip and root. 3d, The lingualis is an irregular bundle of fibres, running according to the length of the tongue, and lying betwixt the hyo-glossus, and genio-hyo-glossus : as this muscle is in the centre of the tongue, and unconnected with any bone, it is therefore called the lingualis, or muscle of the tongue. From these simple facts, we perceive that each fleshy fibre has its parti- cular use, and that the Eternal has not only created, but wisely adapted it to fulfil its intended purpose, in the mechanism and functions of the animal economy, with unerring precision and perfect accuracy. There are three muscles that move the scapula, or shoulder- blade, upward and backward. 1st, The trapezius, is one of the most beautiful muscles of the body: the two conjoined, one on each shoulder, and on the neck, extend from the tip of the one shoulder to the tip of the other, and from the nape of the nock, down to the loins: when they reach the top of the neck, they become tendinous, and are named ligamentum nucha:, or ligament of the neck. From this point down the neck, the trapezius docs not lay hold of the spine, but does so when it reaches the two last vertebra: of the back. It is implanted into more than one-third of the collar-bone, next the shoulder, into the tip of the acromion, or shoulder top, and the whole length of the spine, from which the acromion rises. But its fibres arising from along the neck and back, and converging almost to a pointT, have very different effects, according to the different fibres that act. It moves and rolls the scapula, pulls the head backward, bends the neck, and is a powerful muscle of respiration. 2d, Levator scapulas, is a small thin slip of flesh, arising from the four or five uppermost vertebrae of the neck, by three or four and sometimes five distinct heads. The heads join to form a thin flat stripe of muscle about three inches broad, which is fixed by a flat thin tendon to the upper corner of the shoulder-blade. This muscle pulls up the scapula when we shrug our shoulders. 3d, Rhom- boideus arises first from the three lower spinous processes of the neck, and is implanted into the base of the scapula ; and second, from the spinous processes of the first four vertebra: of the back, and runs into the base of the scapula. It has been sometimes reckoned two muscles, the major and minor; but most anatomists consider it only one muscle with two divisions. It raises the shoulder-blade, and carries it backward. The muscles that move the scapula forward, come from the breast; upward from the neck; backward from the spine ; and downward from the ribs. There are three muscles that move the shoulder-blade down- ward and forward. 1st, Serratus major anticus, arises from all the ribs, and by distinct portions from each rib, and lies on the side of the chest. The distinct portions betwixt the ribs are called digitations or fingers; but the chief part of the muscle lies under the shoulder-blade, where it is thick and fleshy, and forms part of the cushion on which the scapula glides. It terminates in the whole length of the line, called the base of the scapula: when the entire muscle acts, it pulls the shoulder-blade down- ward and forward : when only the lower portions act, they pull the lower angle of the scapula forward : when the upper part acts along with the pectoral muscle, the tip of the shoulder is fixed and pulled towards the chest, and the lower corner of the scapula is rolled backward. But its most important action is to fix the scapula, expand the ribs, and perform respiration, or breathing. 2d, The pectoralis minor lies under the pectoralis major, close upon the ribs. It sometimes arises from the third, fourth, and fifth ribs; sometimes from the second, third, and fourth; and sometimes only from the third and sixth. Its three digitations are very thick and fleshy, and converge into a smaller muscle, terminating in a point attached to the apex of the coronoid process. It pulls the coronoid process forward and downward, and rolls the shoulders. 3d, Subclavian muscle, arises by a flat tendon from the cartilage of the first rib, and becoming flat and fleshy, runs betwixt the first rib and the collar- bone. It is inserted along the whole clavicle, beginning about two inches from the sternum, and pulls the shoulder downward. The shoulder-blade is moved upward by the levator scapula:, and trapezius; backward, by the rhomboideus, and the middle portions of the trapezius ; downward and backward by the low- est order of fibres in the trapezius ; downward and forward by the serratus major anticus ; directly downward by the serratus, assisted by the subclavius ; balanced by the trapezius; and directly forward by the pectoralis major. The arm is joined to the body and moved by numerous power- ful muscles, and is fixed to the breast by the ligaments of the collar-bone. The muscles that move the shoulder-blade lie upon the trunk; those that move the arm lie upon the shoulder- blade ; those that move the fore-arm lie upon the arm ; and those that move the hand and fingers lie upon the fore-arm. But as the arm requires easy circular motions, it has a mul- tiplicity of joints to perform them. It has the wrist, for turning it round ; the elbow, for its hinge-like motions ; and the shoulder- joint, on which it rolls ; and to assist all these, the moveable shoulder-blade becomes the centre of their motions ; for after a certain point of elevation, the motion of raising the arm is per- formed by the action of the scapula upon the trunk ; when our shoulder-bone is raised to a horizontal position, it is checked by the acromion or upper part of the shoulder-joint which hangs over it ; and if we elevate our arm still higher, the scapula rolls, turning upon the point of the clavicle, or collar-bone, and as it turns, it glides easily upon those muscles, which lie like a fleshy cushion betwixt it and that part of the trunk over which it is so usefully placed, by the glorious Author and Architect of the uni- verse. GEOLOGY. CHAPTER V. CLASSIFICATION AND MINERALOGICAL DESCRIPTION OF THE STRATIFIED OR AQUEOUS ROGK3. Tiie term rock is usually applied to hard stony substances, occur- ring either in layers or in amorphous (1) masses. In geology, however, the term is applicable to all substances, without refer- ence to their hardness or softness, which occur in large masses in the crust of the globe. Thus, granite, marl, coal, and clay, arc equally entitled to the name. The propriety of thus fixing the definition of the term will appear palpable, if we take the fact into consideration, that there is eveky degree of hardness to be found in the various mineral compounds, from the most in- durated quartz rock to the softest clay. Wien we speak, there- fore, of rocks, it is to be understood it is of those substances which compose the stratified and unstratified masses found at, or near, the surface of the earth. Rocks have been classed mineralogica ny into the siliceous, the argillaceous, and calcareous; as quartz or silica clay or lim prevail. q>