386 THE IMPERIAL JOURNAL OF parts of the tongue. What is called the after-smack, seems to be of a compound nature, derived from various sources. Taste is susceptible of education to a certain extent, as in the instance of wine and tea tasters. And there is even a sort of harmony in tastes, as well as in tones and colours. But different bodies must not be tasted too rapidly, else all power of discrimination ceases : and as regards the metaphy- sical history of the function, it may be said that the percep- tions derived from it are much more objective, and less of a subjective nature than those of the higher organs of sight and hearing ; or in other words, false sensations, sensations aris- ing in the tongue and brain when no sapid body is present to excite them, are extremely rare when compared with the fre- quency of visual and auditory spectra. Their possible oc- currence has even been doubted. In the first part of this article on the sense and organ of taste, it has been shown how completely the tongue is a mus- cular organ, endowed with the utmost mobility, and also with common sensibility. It is therefore an instrument, and no doubt the chief instrument of speech; and with it the pro- perties of bodies may to a certain extent be detected; for the determining of these, how’ever, the fingers are by far the more appropriate instruments. The author of this article suggested, many years ago, to Sir Charles Bell, that the tongue of man was by no means so accurate a tactile organ as the fingers, although it might be so in some animals; and he instanced the fact that the pulse of the wrist could not in general be perceived by the tongue being applied over the artery, or at least only in an extremely obscure way, and that the number of pulsations could not be determined by the ap- plication of the tongue. By pressing, however, very strongly with the tongue against a very prominent artery, the pulsa- tions of the heart may be counted and the thrill of blood in the vessel becomes evident. This does not, however, affect the main physiological proposition implied in the above re- mark, namely, that it is the presence of the skeleton in the finger which enables us to detect so readily with it the vari- eties in the number, force, and regularity of the pulsations of the heart as detected in the arteries ; and that in the tongue of man it is the absence of any hard parts which unfits it in this respect as a tactile organ. The tongue of birds, there- fore, may be an excellent tactile though an imperfect tasting organ. To resume, the conditions for the perception of taste in a sapid body seem to be, 1st, the presence of a nerve, with special endowments. 2d, The irritation of this nerve by the sapid matters. 3d, The solution of these matters in the secretions of the organ of taste. A calm investigation of all the facts shows that in regard to the special functions of particular nerves supplying the organ, a single well-ob- served, properly described case of disease in man is of infi- nitely more value than all the cruel and absolutely unneces- sary and therefore brutal experiments performed on living animals specifically distinct from man. “ The pressure of a tumour or sw elling on the divisions of the fifth pair of nerves, caused loss of taste in the corresponding half of the tongue.” This does not, it is true, prove that the nerve implicated is the sole and only nerve of taste; but it proves that if the glosso-pharyngeal be the nerve, it cannot act an independent part, but requires the aid of the fifth.* The varieties in the sensation of taste are less understood than in the case of sounds and colours. The theoretical terms of taste, then, are unknown, a statement which w'e hope will please the taste of those who are constantly declaiming against theory, giving a preference to what they are pleased to call facts. And it is consoling at the same time to know that there exists nothing in the facts more absolutely at variance with the usually received physiology of the nervous system. VVe had almost forgot to add that the tongue is liable to many diseases, some of which require the bold and firm in- * If it he true that the tongue may lose its common sensibility, and yet preserve its power of taste, this would show the uses of the fifth pair to be more complex than are generally supposed. terference of the surgeon. Bleeding caused by an injury to the tongue is occasionally restrained with difficulty, requiring at times the application of the actual cautery or red-hot iron. To malformation of the organ some surgeons have been disposed to ascribe the impediment of speech called stammering; and some very cruel and extremely improper operations have been performed by Dieftenbach and others, with a view to a removal of the complaint. Such operations are not warrantable; and the operators, whoever they are, forget a great principle, which ought to regulate all surgeons, —namely, that an operation is not to be performed merely because it can be done, but rather because it is advisable and prudent to perform it under existing circumstances. II.—Of the Organ of Smell. The term nose, as it is used in ordinary language, does not include all the structures required for the apparatus of smell. The more important, and indeed the more essential parts, as in the case of the ear, are placed more deeply in a cavity formed within the bones of the face, above the organ of taste and at the entrance of the air passages. It is a double organ, or composed of two cavities quite distinct from each other. The nose, or the external visible part, varies infinitely as to its form, particularly amongst the inhabitants of England and the Low lands of Scotland. This so great variety arises no doubt from the commingling of so many races of men in these countries. It does not seem to me, however, that we meet with the same variety in the form of the nose amongst the purer races. In the negro, for example, or the Jew, or even the Irish Celt, there does not exist that extraordinary diversity of form in the shape of the nose which is met with among the English and Lowland Scotch. There is then a certain form of nose peculiar to each race, which admits only of a limited range as to its varieties. In the Jew I have ob- served but three varieties as to the form of the nose, and these are but slight modifications of what may be called the primitive form of the race. The finest form of the organ occurs in certain young persons of the Jewish race; and the same form precisely is to be seen in the head of the young Memnon, a granite bust of extraordinary beauty brought from Egypt and now in the British Museum. This was probably the form of nose common to most ancient Egyp- tians. On the other hand, the ancient Greeks (I mean, of the classic age) were beyond all doubt a mixed race, com- posed of Phoenician, Egyptian, Armenian, Saxon, and Celtic blood. Hence the infinite variety in their physiognomy. What is usually termed “ the Greek nose” and Grecian pro- file, does not seem to be so common in Greece as some have supposed. Finally, this profile and form of nose is sufficiently common amongst the Saxon race, from whom, probably, it was derived. The origin of the Roman nose is not well un- derstood, but evidently it has not been derived from any Celtic race. In the nose, anatomists describe the summit or root, the dorsum or ridge, the lobe, and the base. In the base are the nostrils, bounded externally by the alae or wings. Moreover, the nose is composed of a skeleton or frame- work and of certain muscles ; internally, it is lined with a mucous membrane; blood vessels, nerves, and lymphatics are found here as elsewhere ; the common integuments invest the outer surface. This portion of skin has its peculiar sym- pathies. Twro bones, whose shape will be best understood by looking at figure 2, support the part we now speak of; their function is best judged of by observing what happens when by acci- dent or disease they have been lost. The cartilages which I assist in forming the nose, are the tw'O lateral cartilages, the two outer cartilages ; and to these may be added the great | cartilage of the septum or middle division of the nostrils. Thus modern anatomists describe five cartilages in the nose. Santorini, an Italian anatomist, on the other hand, with the minuteness peculiar to the Italian character, described eleven cartilages, of which five may be said to be fully developed,