297 ART, SCIENCE, MECHANICS, AND ENGINEERING. it is connected with the ankle-joint, but forms no part of the knee-joint; it has no connection with the thigh-bone, and there- fore supports no part of the weight of the body. It serves to increase the breadth of the leg, without adding much to the weight, and is connected in its whole length to the shin-bone, by a strong membrane, or interosseous ligament, which serves to give attachment to muscles as well as if it had been bone, with the advantage of being much lighter. The lower ends of these two bones make the projections which are called the inner and outer ankles. Intermediate to the thigh and leg is the knee-pan, a bone which corresponds to the elbow in the upper extremity. It glides on the smooth anterior part of the thigh-bone, is attached to the shin-bone by a strong ligament, and has the powerful ex- tensor muscles of the leg inserted into it. It increases the power of these muscles, by throwing their attachment forward, and therefore farther from the centre of motion of the leg, thus conferring on them the advantage of a lever power. The Foot consists of twenty-six bones. Seven of these form the tarsus, or solid part of the foot, to which no English word corresponds. Five compose the instep, or metatarsus, and the remaining fourteen are the joints of the toes. One of the bones of the tarsus is shaped above like a pulley, and is received between the projections of the two bones of the leg forming the two ankles, so that by its motion the foot is bent up at right anodes to the leg, or pointed with the toes downward. The bone of the heel projects nearly an inch and-a-half backward, giving a strong lever for the insertion of the powerful muscles which form the calf of the leg. The next bone is in front of the pulley- like bone, and in some persons is very moveable, admitting of much lateral motion across the middle of the foot. Three wedqe- shaped, and one cuboid bone, in front of these, complete the tarsus, and support the instep. The five bones of the metatarsus are each about two inches and-a-half long; they are attached posteriorly to the solid part of the foot, and anteriorly they support the toes. Their anterior ends rest upon the ground in standing, so that the foot presents an arch—the end of the heel-bone behind, and the ends of the metatarsal bones in front, being the abutments, while the pulley-like bone is the keystone on which the weight of the body rests. (See figure of skeleton.) This arch is not, however, firm or rigid, but yields a little when leant on; and to prevent its yielding too much, is strengthened below with strong liga- ments, passing like a bow-string from be- hind forward. The degree of hollowness is very different in different persons, and those in whom it is most developed are always the most active, and the best pe- destrians. The foot is arched also from side to side; and in the hollow thus gained, the blood-vessels, nerves, and tendons, going to the toes, lie secure from injury by pressure. The metatarsal bone of the great toe is much stronger than that of any of the others. To this toe there are only two moveable pieces, much larger than the joints of the other two. Each of the smaller toes has three pieces, similar to the joints of the fingers, but much smaller, as they are not in- ended tor laying hold with. The last piece is enlarged towards its point, for supporting the nail on its upper, and the pulpy extremity oi the toe on its lower surface. ^ The above figure represents the upper surface of right foot i> bone^T'a b<!nC; hc,el-bo1ne- navicular or boat-shaped oone. a, 2, 3, first, second, and third, wedge-shaped bones. c cuboid bone. 5, the five metatarsal bones, j, moveable joints of MECHANICS. PART I.—S T A T I C S. CHAPTER II. TIIE LAWS OF EQUILIBRIUM OF FORCES. U. Variety of cases of equilibrium.—12. Parallelogram of forces.-- 13.14. Equilibrium of three forces.—15. Superposition of forces in equili- brium.—16. I riangle of forces.—17, 18, 19. Equilibrium of many forces acting at one point: polygon of forces.—20. Resolution of oblique forces into perpendicular and horizontal forces.—21, 22 23 Equili- brium of many forces in the same plane acting at different 'points— Moment of borce-Equahty of moments.—24. Geometrical expres- sion of this law.—25. Parallel forces. 11. The idea of equilibrium necessarily implies the idea of a plu- rality of forces, for one force by the definition produces motion. The simplest case of equilibrium of pressures is evidently that of two forces of equal magnitude, and acting in opposite directions on one point; in which the three elements of direction, magni- tude, and point of application of forces are in their simplest rela- tion. But as these elements may be variously combined in various systems of forces in equilibrium, there may be an infinite variety of particular cases. The conditions of equilibrium, how- ever, are in all cases discoverable by the application of the funda- mental law of the parallelogram of forces, now to be explained 12. We may classify all systems oi equilibrating forces into those in which the forces have a common point of application, and those in which they are applied to more than one point! And we shall consider first those systems of which the forces have their direction in one plane, noticing afterwards those of which the forces are not in one plane. When two forces act together upon a point which are not in equilibrium, their statical effect must equal that of some third force acting singly at that point. The two former being com- pounded, are termed the components, in relation to the latter, which also is said to be the resultant, and which again may be resolved into the two. The direction of two forces applied to a point, must either be in one straight line, or Q -^R contain an angle at that point. In the first case, their resultant will be the sum of the forces, if act- ing in the same direction, and their difference if act VOL i. ing oppositely. We shall P consider these cases more at large when we come to treat of the laws of motion. For illustration of the second case, let two forces act on the point a in the directions a p, a q, and with magnitudes expressed by a b, a c ; their resultant, or the single effect of their joint action, is invariably found to be re- presented also both in direction and magnitude by the diagonal of a parallelogram of which a b, a c, are the sides. Draw c d, b d, parallel to a b, a c, respectively, and draw the diagonal a d ; then a d, acting on the point a, is their resultant. This remarkable law, termed the law of the parallelogram of forces, may be shortly stated, thus :—If two forces be expressed by the adjacent sides of a parallelogram, their resultant is expressed in direction and magnitude by the diagonal. This law is the foundation of all statical inquiries ; in fact the principle runs through every ramification of the science. - 13. Now since the diagonal represents in magnitude and direc- tion the effect of the joint action of the two side forces, it is clear that by applying a force to the point of application, equal and opposite to the resultant or diagonal effect, the three forces thus acting on it would be in equilibrium. To prove this principle experimentally, take three weights, w1, wa, w3, connected by cords of convenient length; and passin" these over pulleys, r1, p*, r3, fixed in a frame, let them hang till they settle in equilibrium. Then o, is the point at which the forces meet, being represented in direction by the cords • take o p, o q, o s, along the cords, proponUpnal to the weights iv1, w3, w3, respectively, and tracing the parallelogram o p r q on a surface behind, we shall find that the diagonal o u is 2 P