THE IMPERIAL JOURNAL OF 388 hand, to stop bleeding, is often a troublesome operation. Excrescences or polypi of various kinds grow from this membrane, and so, more or less completely interrupting the nasal passages, affect the breathing ; these should be removed by a skilful and careful surgeon. Lastly, two kinds of nerves at least are distributed to this membrane ; first, the olfactory or first pair of cerebral nerves ; secondly, a branch from the fifth pair of cerebral nerves. Nearly all agree that the first are properly speaking the true olfactory nerves. The branch from the fifth is supposed to bestow on the membrane the common sensibility which with other part3 of the body it requires. There are difficulties, however, in adopting this simple view of the physiology of these nerves, which we shall state in the next section. We shall now briefly give the history of the physiology of this sense. “ The sense of smell takes cognizance of the particles of odorous bodies which are held suspended or dissolved in the air.’’ This is the definition of most physiologists ; but the terra “ or in water” must be added, if we propose including fishes amongst those animals which have the power of smell. It is generally understood and admitted that the odorous particles are perceived by the olfactory or first pair of nerves, although, as we shall afterwards find, a branch of another pair of nerves, the fifth, is also required to fit the organ for the exercise of its function. The olfactory nerve is presumed to be distributed extensively on the mucous membrane in- vesting the deeper cavities of the nostrils. There can be no doubt that all analogy is in favour of the idea that the olfactory nerves are truly what their name im- plies them to be ; yet cases occur in which an injury done to that small branch of the fifth distributed to the mucous membrane and lobe of the nose has completely destroyed the power of smell. Such pathological cases present great diffi- culties, and are in a great measure as yet inexplicable by any physiological theory, like many of the beautiful views of Sir Charles Bell and Mr Walker, for example, in regard to the nervous system. It has not been proved satisfactorily that fishes smell, and yet they have very large olfactory nerves. Birds also have but imperfect olfactory organs ; in them the first pair of nerves is small. The vulture, which was long thought to discover his prey by the sense of smell, has been proved to possess this power in an extremely limited degree, and so of other birds. On the other hand, it is probable that some hot- blooded animals of the order Cetacea, as the well-known porpoise, have olfactory nerves so small, that many anatom- ists doubt their existence; and from this it is fair to presume, that such animals smell very imperfectly, if at all. This re- mark, however, does not apply to all Cetacea, the rorguel or piked whale having an olfactory nerve as large, proportionally, as man himself. But it is in the horse, ox, deer, 8tc. that the sense of smell appears to be most highly developed ; by this sense, the horse declines not unfrequently to taste water which to man’s senses would appear to be pure ; by it also he would seem to discover in the open field the approach of enemies or friends. On the unenclosed fields of the Cape of Good Hope, the farmers’ horses are turned out to graze and in some measure to shift for themselves, being altogether without protection from man. It may be owing to this that they exhibit instincts and a sagacity unexpected and occa- sionally remarkable. They collect in circular groups on the approach of danger, the mares and younger horses occupy- ing the centre, whilst a stallion or gelding leaves the party and gallops towards the suspected object. As he approaches the object of his fear or rather suspicion, (for if a stallion he seldom shows fear,) it is curious to observe how he, by a long circuit, places the person or animal between him and the point whence the wind blows, however slight the current ot air may be ; or, in other words, how he almost uniformly prefers exercising the organ of smell to that of sight. Another cir- cumstance worthy of notice in regard to this organ is that the antelope, zebra, quagge, and wildebeest orgnoo, frequenting in countless numbers the vast grassy plains and mountains of Southern Africa, do uniformly, when pursued by the hunts- man, gallop up towards the quarter from whence the wind blows; and African farmers have often pointed out to me the curious fact, that oxen, when turned out to graze on the un- enclosed field or desert, do very generally, if not uniformly, graze towards the same quarter, as if desirous of ascertain- ing whilst feeding, by means of the organ of smell, the approach of any dangerous or suspected object. In the pur- suit of the young quagge, zebra, or antelope, it is sufficient merely to press the hand several times over its nostrils when it is overtaken, as on being let loose it will follow the hunts- man into bondage, even although its parents may be seen free at no great distance and the liberty of flight freely per- mitted it. The power of smell in the dog and pig need not to be ad- verted to, as being so well known. That of the elephant is probably extremely acute. The power of smell and even its character vary much in different persons. Females generally prefer perfumes and sweet smells; flowers are generally agreeable to them on this account. The sense of smell is extremely acute in some per- sons, and is not impaired by a residence amongst unpleasant odours. PRINCIPLES OF ALGEBRA. CHAPTER VII. Of Simple Equations containing more than one Unknown Quantity. 66. Suppose that there exist simultaneously two such equations as x -f- y — 15 x— y = 7 in which we have two unknown quantities, x and y, and two in- dependent conditions expressed regarding them. It is here obvious that the single condition of either of these equations is not sufficient to fix the value of the quantities ; it connects them, nevertheless, in such a way, that if one can be found, the other can be found also. Taken sepjarately, the equations are there- fore indeterminate, or admit of|an indefinite number of solutions: for the first will manifestly be [-satisfied by any pair of numbers vhose sum is 15, and the second by any pair of numbers whose difference is 7. The following are instances :—• Solutions of the first. Solutions of the second. x = 12 y = 3 <N II y = 5 * = ni y = 31 II y = * = n y = 4 X = 11 y = 4 * = 10J- y = 4f x = lOf y = 3f and so on for as many pairs of numbers as we please. But solution required here consists in finding a set of values for x and y, which shall simultaneously satisfy both equations. Such a solution is contained among the preceding instances, where we find a set of values, * = ll and y = 4, which satisfies both equations at once A group of equations of this sort, in which we have the same number of equations and unknown quantities, is called a system of simultaneous equations ; and the first part of the process of . Li' /-»4nnnsi o r\f nnlinfiwn nnnnfitiOS ! solution consists in eliminating one of the unknown quantities that is, by some combination o new equation from which one of the unknown quantities shall be excluded. The following are for one of the unknown quant the two equations to derive a the methods usually employed with equations involving two unknown quantities :— 67. First Method.—By sibslitution.—Find an expression ties from one of the equations, and substitute it for that unknown quantity in the other equa- tion. The result will be an equation containing only one un- J A1 F—« Vv«r tllO TYtotllfiflS known quantity, and may therefore be solved by the methods already given. Let the proposed equations be of the general forms * ax -\-by = c a' x b'y — c' » To avoid using many different letters, it is common to employ the me letter with one or more accents; to signify different numbers, i ®us• re symbol a' differs as effectually from a as a does from b. As to tne :aniug of the numbers for which they stand, a' may he read "a t it is more commonly read "a" da$i, though not so correctly. The sam plies to bc', or any other accented Symbol.