TI1E IMPERIAL JOURNAL OF GIG It has been ascertained by chemical calculation, founded on careful experiments, that nearly eleven ounces of charcoal are expelled from the lungs in the four-and-twenty hours; so that, in this respect, the windpipe may, not inaptly, be com- pared to a chimney. We shall see, immediately, that this comparison holds good in another point of view, for the lungs, seen in this light, are extremely like a couple of fur- naces. It was long supposed, that the purifying of the blood, by getting quit, of its carbon, was all that was necessary— that this was the end of the function of respiration. Now, on the other hand, there are strong grounds for thinking that this getting quit of the carbon is but a means toward an end —that the carbon in combining with the oxygen of the air, is actually burned, and that this combustion is the cause of animal heat. It has long been known that heat was in some way the result of breathing, but to explain exactly how, was the difficulty. It has been left, for a chemist of our own day, to set this subject clearly before us—as clearly, perhaps, as it can possibly be. Liebig, the professor of chemistry at Giessen, in Germany, lately published a most admirable book, which has been clothed in an English dress by Dr. Gregory of Aberdeen, who was well known in Glasgow before his removal thither some years ago. The book is entitled, “ Organic Chemistry, applied to Physiology and Pathology.” A correct abstract of the doctrines of the distinguished author ought to be acceptable in this place, although the writer of these papers cannot, of course, pledge himself for their accuracy in a philosophical point of view. “ Hitherto,” says Professor Liebig, “in attempting to in- vestigate the theory of those vital motions, which we call the actions going on in the intimate structure of animal bodies, only one condition was possessed—namely, a knowledge of the apparatus. The exact nature of the substance of the organs themselves—the changes which they produce upon the food—its transformation into the substance of organs—and afterwards, its transformation again into lifeless or inorganic compounds—also, the share which the atmosphere has in aiding these changes—all these foundations for future con- clusions were awanting.” All the parts of the animal frame are formed out of a peculiar fluid, which circulates through every cell of every organ. All the [tarts consisted originally of blood, or, at least, had been made of materials which weFe brought to the growing organs by means of this fluid. Experience further shows us, that at every moment there is a change taking place ; that a part of the structure is losing its life, becoming transformed into unorganized matter, and requiring to be renewed, and to have its place supplied. Besides, every mo- tion, every manifestation of power, must be the result of a transformation of structure or of substance. In order to keep up the phenomena of life, then, there must be nourishment. Some part of this is wanted for the increase of the mass, some part is needed for repairing loss, and some part is expended in producing force. If, then, the first condition, necessary for the maintenance of life, be a due supply of nourishment, the second, of no less importance, is the absorption of oxyjen from the atmo- sphere. View'ed as an object of scientific research, animal life exhibits itself in a series of phenomena, consisting of the changes which the food and the oxygen which have been taken in undergo in the body, under the influence of life, or what has been called vital force. We say, under the influ- ence of life, because, though all the parts remain the same, these changes do not go on in the dead body. During life, there are constantly two changes going on ; there is new matter moving in, and passing to a state of rest; and there is old matter, which has been at rest, passing into a state of motion ; in two words, there are the processes of addition and decomposition. In vegetables, we do not see this double change, but only the first; we see new matter passing into a state of rest, and adding to their size and growth, but we see no waste. In animals, there is both growth and waste. The matter taken in consists of food and oxygen. Food is taken at certain times; oxygen is taken continually, with- out ceasing. Yet, accurate experiments have shown, that a man, supplied with a sufficiency of food, and breathing regularly, neither becomes heavier nor lighter in the twenty- four hours, and yet the quantity of food and of oxygen taken in must have been very considerable. In a year, a man takes in 746 lbs. of oxygen, yet his weight remains the same, or has varied but a few pounds. What, then, has become of it? The question can be answered satisfactorily,—no part of it has remained; it has all been given out again, in the form of compounds, with carbon and hydrogen. The carbon and hydrogen of certain parts of the body have entered into combination with the oxygen of the atmosphere, through the lungs and skin, and have passed off under the forms of car- bonic acid gas, and the vapour of water. At every moment, at every expiration, certain quantities of these elements sepa- rate from the body, having combined, within it, with the oxygen of the atmosphere. Suppose that a man has 24 lbs. of blood within his body, (a very small quantity, but it will serve for the basis of a calculation,) from its known chemical composition, in order to convert the whole of its carbon and hydrogen into carbonic acid and water, 64,103 grams of oxygen will be required, wdiich quantity will be taken in at the usual rate of breathing in four days and five hours. It is quite plain, that whether the air combine directly with the blood, or with other parts of the body, which it carries aw ay, so as to form carbonic acid—the body of a man, which takes in daily 32| ounces of oxygen, must daily receive as much carbon and hydrogen, from without, as will supply the blood anew with these elements, to supply the place of the old quantity which has been parted with, in order to combine with the air. Further, since no part of the oxygen taken in by breathing is again given off, except as a com- pound of carbon or hydrogen ; and since the carbon and hy- drogen given off are replaced by carbon and hydrogen in the food, it is clear that the amount of nourishment required by an animal wdiich breathes air must be directly proportionate to the oxygen which is taken into the system. Two animals, which, in equal times, take up by means of the lungs and skin, unequal quantities of oxygen, consume unequal quantities of nourishment. Then, the quantity of oxygen taken up depends on the number of the respirations; hence, the quantity of nourishment will vary according to the number and force of the respirations. A child, in whom the respiratory function is very active, requires food oftener than an adult, and bears hunger less easily. A bird, whose consumption of oxygen is so great that its blood is three or four degrees hotter than a quadruped's, dies on the third day | that it passes without food ; while a serpent, w hose respira- j tion is very sluggish, will live without eating, for three months, or more. Again, the number of respirations is; smaller when we are at rest, than when at active employ- J ment, so that the quantity of food required will vary on this j account also. An excess of food, then, without exercise, | and the increased frequency of respiration, and increased con- j sumption of oxygen, which are necessary accompaniments, is j bad for the health ; and so, also, is the opposite, increase of j exercise, or excessive labour, without a sufficient supply of food. In either case, the constitution suffers. Again, the chemist shows us that air expands by heat, and becomes denser under the influence of cold. The bulk ol the air used in respiration continues the same, but its weight varies. Besides, in summer, the air contains a proportion of watery vapour, in consequence of the evaporation which the heat is occasioning; while in winter it is dry, in so far a;; this source of moisture is concerned. Hence, the spact which in summer was occupied by vapour, is in winter occu pied by air itself; and that air, from its density, contain; more oxygen. It is clear, then, that since in wdnter, we draw' in morn oxygen, during respiration, than in summer, we must als< send out more. But we send it out as carbonic acid, in con sequence of the combination with it of the carbon which ha