THE IMPERIAL JOURNAL OF 22 bodies may have already passed, and may yet pass through every variety of combination in nature. Shall the dead rise from the grave, is an awful and mysterious subject ? I will briefly dismiss it in a few words. Our almighty Creator has promised in his word, and is able to raise us again from the dead. The chemical analysis of the human body teaches us that the rich and poor man, and the lower animals, are composed of the same simple elements ; a few gases in varied combination, constitute the greater portion of the animal frame. Is it of these gases, that man is so vain and proud ? Is it only to increase their volume that he explores every portion of the globe for luxuries to sate his voluptuous appetite, to add a few more atoms to his flesh, and a few pounds of lime to his bones ? Let the pampered lordling who is proud of his status, be told, that 63 parts in the 100 of his bones, are composed of lime in combination with acids, and we may make him humble. Let female beauty be told that the red part of the blood which flushes her cheeks, is composed of iron, in combination with oxygen, and we may cure self-idolatry. Let the vain man of genius be told that his large, lofty, prominent brain, is chiefly composed of soda, lime, and ammonia, combined with phosphorus, oxygen, and a small portion of sulphur, and we may humble his intellec- tual vanity. Yet these statements are true ; for they are founded on chemical analysis, that cannot err, and are as immutable and correct as mathematics. The human mind is immaterial and invisible, and cannot be analyzed by chemical laws,—its composi- tion shall therefore remain for ever unknown to the peasant and philosopher. In next chapter we will describe the skin and perspiration. GEOLOGY CHAPTER I. INTRODUCTION. ORIGINAL CONDITION OF THE EARTH AND ITS ANTIQUITY. Railway excursions are no way adapted for geological observa- tion, and but little can be learned from the deck of a steam- boat. If you wish to understand the structure of the earth, you must take your hammer in your hand, and peregrinate through the breadth and length of the land; ascend the hill, dive into the ravine, descend the mine, explore the river, and investigate the shore. Unless you can undergo this fatigue for the sake of truth, and the acquirement of knowledge, Geology will never completely open up her treasures to your understanding: read, and specu- late, and wonder you may, but unless you are a working, you can never be a practical Geologist. But though all are not capable of undertaking this laborious task, and still fewer have time, truth is not to be hid from their understandings, and the general deductions of geological investigation! may be made known. This science of late years has engaged no fcmall share of public atten- tion ; and why so? because, more than any other science, it effects a revolution in our mode of thinking, concerning the origin of the earth and the progress of nature—discloses the dfecrets of a vast antiquity—unfolds the outgoings of the Ancient of Bays, and the successive operations of his hand, even when the founda- tions of the earth were being laid, arid through a long succes- sion of epochs of indefinite duration. 1 Accustomed to consider the whole of nature as having sprung out of nothing at the Divine command in the course of a few days—and erroneously deeming this heljef as essentially connect- ed with the fundamental articles of Christian faith—it is little wonder when Hutton announced to the world that the earth afforded no trace of a commencement, nor any prospect of an end, that he was assailed as an infidel. IBut time effects changes in the moral as well as the physical wcHd, and such a belief is now considered no way obnoxious to a true interpretation of the sacred text: some of our divines are amongst our most cele- brated geologists, and the vast antiquity of the earth has become as fully accredited by churchmen as if it had formed a subject of distinct revelation. A few cavillers are still to be found, but not amongst the enlightened and the liberal portion of the Chris- ii tian community ; it is only among those who, assuming their pre- conceptions to be true, and their interpretations of scripture right, peril the credibility of their faith before the stubborn evidence of fact. The vast antiquity of our globe is now as fully demon- strated as its rotundity; and the lapse of ages which must have | occurred in the completion of a geological epoch, as evident as the distances of the heavenly spheres: indeed more so—be- cause the one can be proven to any person in the slightest degree i conversant with the structure of the earth, by deductions the most rational and satisfactory* and by evidences the most com- plete ; whereas in Astronomy the person who cannot apply the telescopic tube, has in a great measure to rest satisfied with the testimony of the astronomer, and the collateral evidence of the mathematician. That the stratified portions of our earth have resulted from \ sedementary depositions, such as those we witness in rivers, at the mouth of estuaries, and in lakes, is evident from the vast abun- ance, and the perfect state in which theirembedded organic remains are found. From the coral to the elephant—from the sea-weed I to the lofty pine—the various species of animals and plants, j attest the ancient conditions of animal and vegetable life upon 1 i the surface of the earth, during each successive period of deposi- Ij tion. Coralines are found in every period, but each great division ij differs in the character of the species. Fishes of very different | forms from those that now inhabit the ocean, with one or two I exceptions, and of a predatory saurian character, prevailed in the ancient deep, and latterly crocodileans crawled upon the I shores. The seas teemed with cephalopeds allied to the cuttle fishes and nautilli of the present seas; and wherever there was land a tropical vegetation arose. Seven distinct geological epochs —each characterized by sedimentary deposits of enormous thick- ness, and each the work of many thousands if not millions of years, and by the existence -of distinct species of animals and plants—occurred previous to the introduction of an order of Nature . analogous to the present; when mammiferous animals constitute , the chief occupants of the land, and plants producing timber, and j fruit, and flower, are everywhere to be found. Such plants were ’ not required while land animals were few, and these principally con- fined to the lizard and crocodile tribes, and, therefore, they were not called into existence. Nothing is made in vain. But after the introduction of suck-giving animals, such as deer, cows, horses, elephants, and tapirs, which took place only after the chalk rocks had been deposited, we find the elm, the oak, and other exogen- ous plants to have existed, and Nature to have made a slow, but a gradual approximation to the state in which it seemed fit to Deity to call man into being. Such is a brief outline of the views of modern geologists with respect to the age of the earth. Unfolding as they do the most evident traces of the continued exercise of creative power, in the production of creatures from time to time fitted to the existing physical conditions of the globe ; they offer a most incontroverti- ble testimony to the existence of an infinitely intelligent and all- powerful First Cause, and thus lay the foundation of a true knowledge of the Great Architect of the universe. That the earth is round, performs a revolution on its axis daily, and moves with inconceivable velocity in the path of its orbit round the sun once a-year, are facts now familiar to every school-boy. It is also well known that the earth is not of a perfectly round, but of a spheroidal form, its polar axis being about twenty-six miles less than its equatorial diameter. The spheroidal figure of the earth is common to that of the planetary bodies. It is that which bodies necessarily assume whose particles have free motion among them- selves, when subject to a rotatory motion like the earth ; hence it is inferred that the whole matter of the globe once existed in a fluid state—a supposition strongly confirmed by its other phe- nomena. What form the first consolidated masses assumed, whether any such now exist, we have scarcely sufficient data given us to judge ; but the oldest stratified rocks, Gneiss and Mica Slate, being evidently derived from the disintegration of Granite, it is not improbable that the original mass, when first consolidated, assumed the different crystalline forms of that rock. Lyell, it is true, has carried his metamorphic theory so far as to consider Granite itself to have resulted from rocks of a prior origin, and that the tendency of all rocks, however new, is to pass onward to the metamorphic state evinced by Granite and the