THE IMPERIAL JOURNAL OF 552 or less extent. The patient, after a longer or shorter time, dies, exhausted from irritation, or, sometimes, is cut off sud- denly by one of the blood vessels of the lung bursting into the cavity. Till within the last twenty years no way was known of ascertaining the existence of this sad malady, until it had gone such a length that its external signs could not be mistaken ; but now, like all the other affections of the lungs, it can be readily detected by a practised ear, with the aid of the stethoscope, an instrument which was already spoken of in Chapter XIII. By its aid we hear the air rushing into the air-cells, and can detect the various unnatural sounds which are the consequences of various unhealthy states of the lung. Indeed, by merely laying the ear upon the naked chest the breathing can be plainly heard. But to return ; even when we have ascertained the existence of consumption, we cannot apply the old adage, that the knowledge of a dis- ease is half its cure ; for this intractable complaint, when once really commenced, never has been, and we may rest assured, never can be cured. The windpipe separates from the gullet behind the root of the tongue, and lies in front of it in its course down the neck. Besides its principal use of admitting air to the lungs, it has another, very important too, though a secondary one, the office of producing the voice. The vocal apparatus is placed near the top of the windpipe; it is called, in anatomy, the larynx, from the Greek word signifying a musical pipe made of a reed, and there is no English word which corre- sponds to it. The larynx, besides, has two offices,—its princi- pal one being to produce voice; and another, of no less utility, is to prevent food from getting into the windpipe in its passage from the back of the tongue into the gullet. The framework of the larynx consists of one bone and four cartilages. The bone is not preserved in general as a part of the skeleton, for it is not united to any other bone, but is situated in the root of the tongue. It has a convex border turned forward, to which the muscles are inserted that draw the tongue forward, and protrude it from the mouth. It has two horns that pass backward, and serve like tenter- hooks to keep the bag of the gullet open at the back of the tongue. The thyroid or protecting cartilage is below this,— it also is convex in front, and concave behind ; it has a notch in its upper border, and is felt on the front of the neck, and seen prominent in the male, whence its common name of pomurn Adami, as if the forbidden apple had stuck there. Below the thyroid cartilage is another called the cricoid, from the Greek word signifying a ring; for it completely en- circles the windpipe. These parts are marked h, th, and c, in the figure of the lungs. That part of the windpipe which has been spoken of some pages back, as composed of cartilaginous rings, is attached to the lower edge of this. Placed above the cricoid, and within the thyroid, are two small conical cartilages, to which the vocal chords are attached. These chords are fixed in front to the hollow or indented angle of the thyroid cartilage, and are joined behind to the two coni- cal ones, so that a slit is formed between them, which regu- lates the admission of air. Eleven small muscles move the several parts of the skeleton of the larynx upon one another, drawing its several parts in different directions upon one another, and opening or closing the slit or chink of the wind- pipe. This chink may be lengthened and w idened, or length- ened and narrowed, shortened and widened, or shortened and narrowed to imperceptible degrees; thereby varying, with infinite minuteness, the musical notes which are elicited by the air passing through them. This figure represents the larynx, w'ith a slice cut off its back part; th is the thyroid; c the cricoid ; and below' are three of the rings. The vocal chords v are seen cut across at the narrowest part. The vocal chords do not vibrate after the manner of strings, as some have supposed, who have taken great pains to prove that the larynx is at once a wind and a stringed instrument; it is purely a wind instrument, whose notes are produced in a similar way to those of the reed in a clarionet or hautboy. In the clarionet, the reed is always the same, and the different notes are produced by lengthening or shortening the sound- ing tube, by stopping or opening the holes with the fingers. In the larynx, the reed is continually being changed by the variations in the vocal chords, while the length of the pipe is also varied by the elevation and depression of the larynx, through the means of the muscles which attach it to the chin above, and to the breast-bone beneath. This motion is easily felt, if the finger be laid on the fore part of the neck while singing : in running up the scale, the projecting car- tilage is felt rising a step for every note; and, towards the top, additional elevating power is gained by holding up the head, and pushing out the chin. The chink between the vocal chords is not, at the utmost, more than three quarters of an inch in length, and varies in width from a quarter of an inch to absolute closure. Hence it must be obvious, that a small substance getting in will block it up altogether, and that thickening of the chords from inflam- mation may narrow it so much as to produce death by suffoca- tion. This is what takes place in fatal cases of croup : layers of a firm whitish substance, of the consistence of boiled white of egg, are formed in the interior of the windpipe, which nar- row it, and prevent the free ingress of air; and, if relief be not obtained from the most active medical treatment, death will speedily ensue. The narrowing of the chink gives rise to the convulsive cough, and the peculiar ringing sound of the re- spiration, which are characteristic of the disease. As soon as food reaches the back of the throat, it passes from the power of the voluntary to that of the involuntary muscles, and is conveyed into the stomach by a regular wave-like action of the muscular gullet or cesophagus. When persons eat too fast, and one morsel is passed into the throat too quickly after the other, this regular muscular action becomes spasmodic, producing a very painful sen- sation. Where foreign bodies get into the windpipe, their presence there is a proof that they cannot produce death by suffoca- tion ; because the chink is the narrowest part of the tube, and they have passed that. T hey are, however, driven up and down by the successive currents of air, and produce much irritation, and at length death from inflammation of the lungs, if not extracted. The operation for removing them is a very simple one ; an incision is made on the front of the neck down to the windpipe, which is then slit up for near an inch. No poking with instruments is required, for the mo- ment the opening is made, the foreign body is blown out with great force. A cherry or plum stone is the substance which, in most cases, has got into this awkward situation. In order to prevent food or drink from passing into the windpipe while being swallowed, a valve is placed over the orifice of the larynx. This valve is called the epiglottis. It is shaped like an obovate leaf, fixed by its footstalk to the in- side of the angle of the thyroid cartilage, while its broader part can be laid down over the orifice so as completely to close it. It stands erect in its natural position ; it has no muscle to pull it down, but is pushed down mechanically by the ball of food which passes over it from the root ot the tongue to get into the gullet, and the moment this has passed it again rises by its elasticity. Indeed, food can never get into the windpipe but when this part is taken by surprise, either by speaking or laughing while swallowing, or by swal- lowing in a hurry as a child does when in fear of detection in having stolen some sweet thing. _ : The only complaints about the larynx, occurring in adults, are an affection somewhat resembling the croup of children, and an ulceration in the inside, reaching even to the carti- lages, which is occasionally found in persons perishing from consumption.