500 THE IMPERIAL JOURNAL OF well observed nor admitted by all observers. Thus the uses of the various parts of the internal ear or labyrinth is a great mystery. The primitive fibrils of each acoustic nerve has been calculated at 1200; now, every excitement, every con- cussion of these fibrils, gives rise to the sensation of sound, whether these be sonorous pulsations from without or not. Thus there are subjective impressions as well as objective sounds ; that is, sensations caused altogether independent of an exter- nal world. The same, we have seen, holds in respect of the other organs of sense, and in that of sight especially. In respect to musical sounds, individuals and races of men present the most striking differences. In all the races of men there are persons, and perhaps those very numerous, who have no musical ear whatever. Each race of men seems to have its peculiar music, just as they possess a peculiar form, physiognomy, mental and physical character, and lan- guage. No one accustomed to music could well mistake the music of the Russ or Sarmatian race for that of the Saxon or Celtic. What is called German music evidently partakes of two distinct characters, marking the distinct origins of the present races chiefly occupying Germany, viz., the Teutonian or Scandinavian, and the Goth, Hun, or Southern German. The pure Saxon race has no ear for music; hence England has not only no national music, but not even a national air. It would be extremely difficult to guess at the origin of the Italian music ; and in respect to its being hard to the Greek, it may be remarked, that the modern Greek—at least it is asserted—has no musical ear. The extraordinary effects of association may best be understood by observing the enthu- siasm with which the frightfully noisy and vulgar sea songs, and some others called national, as “ Rule Britannia,” “ God Save the Queen,” “ British Grenadiers,” &c., are received by audiences, who, being destitute of all musical ear, still imagine these wretched Scandinavian and Norwegian tunes to be melodious and musical. It has been said by some one, that Dibdin received a pension from George III. for de- stroying the public taste; but this was a mistake in one sense, seeing that no public taste existed. The Hutch are, in this respect, much as the English; they have not been able to compose a single air since they have existed as a people on the face of the earth. Nor will even the Celtic race, wherever found, have the musical ear and a national music; witness Ireland, Wales, and the Scottish Highlands. Hoes double hearing ever occur like double vision P Some cases have been recorded, but they are exceedingly rare. We have no direct mode of judging of the direction or distance of sounds. Lastly, it would seem from the investigations of the ingenious Wollaston, that there are “sounds inaudible to certain ears ;” the chirp of the grasshopper, for example, and the cry of the bat. or vision. SECTION I. TIIE ANATOMY OP THE EYE. It is universally admitted that the eye is an optical instru- ment of singular perfection ; to understand, in so far as they can be understood, the functions of its several parts, requires a knowledge of the science of optics, together with an acquaintance with the structure of the eye itself. The human eye and its functions will chiefly engage our attention in the following brief remarks. By means of this organ we not only are aware of the presence of light, but through it as a medium we take cog- nizance of the size, colour, position, and form of surrounding bodies. With regard to the nature of light, two opinions are held by opticians. The one is, that its rays are composed of actual particles which radiate from luminous bodies ; the other sup- poses the existence of a very subtle fluid, or ether, which extends over all space, and that the light consists in undula- tions or vibrations of it. The latter is probably the true theory; but the discussion of the merits of the two is unin- teresting to the physiologist, inasmuch as the laws concerning the transmission of light are the same under both systems, and, moreover, are fortunately well understood. Some of these it is necessary to allude to. When light passes through any single transparent body, as air or water, it always passes in straight lines; but when it passes from one transparent body to another, as from air to water for instance (except, indeed, when it falls perpen- dicularly upon the surfaces where they join), it undergoes a change of direction, or, to use the technical expression, is refracted. A familiar instance of this is seen by putting a cedar pencil into a tumbler of water, when, owing to this law, the part of the pencil under water will seem to form an angle with the part remaining above. The degree of refraction varies in different bodies. We judge of it by supposing a perpendicular to be drawn to the surface of junction of the two transparent bodies, at the point where the ray of light quits the one and enters the other; and we observe whether its change of direction, in its course through the second body, be towards or from that perpen- dicular. If it be refracted towar ds the perpendicular, we say that the substance which it enters has the greater refractive power of the two. We find that, generally speaking, dense bodies have a greater refractive power than those which are rarer, as water or glass, for instance, than air. When the surface which separates the two media is not flat, but either convex or concave, the direction of the rays of light which fall upon it is altered. Thus, in Plate II., fig. 2, b b is a convex piece of glass, and a is a luminous body, from which three rays are issuing. The central one, a c, falls upon the glass in a perpendicular direction to its surface at that point, and therefore passes on unchanged. But the ray, a d, on entering the surface, will be bent towards e, which is perpendicular to the surface of the lens at the point where a d enters; therefore, as glass has a greater refractive power than air, a b will pass on in the direction, f: in like manner, a g will be directed towards i. It is evident that, if these rays were prolonged, they would meet each other. The point of meeting is termed the focus. On the other hand, the reverse would take place if the rays passed from a denser medium into one more rare. It is thus evident, that when a ray of light, passing through air, falls on a convex lens of glass (i. e. a piece of glass bounded upon each side by a segment of a sphere), or any other transparent medium denser than air, it will undergo two refractions—one when it enters the lens, and the other when it passes out; and it is farther obvious, that each refraction will bring it nearer to the axis of the lens. If different rays, proceeding from the same object, pass through air, and fall upon a convex lens, the result of these tw'o refractions will be to concentrate all these rays into a focus beyond the lens. As a convex lens concentrates all the rays from a distant , point into a focus, so it concentrates all the rays from a dis- tant object into an image. Now, the eye is essentially a convex lens, by means of which the rays of light, proceeding from an object, are concentrated behind it into an image, which, being placed upon the termination of the optic nerve, produces in the brain the sensation of sight. Nothing, perhaps, in nature presents so many beautiful contrivances for effecting this purpose as the eye does; and vision has always been con- sidered to afford" some of the best illustrations of Natural Theology. The eye, or eyeball, situated deep in the orbit, is protected in front by the eyebrows and eyelids, and its surface is kept constantly moist by means of the secretion of the lachrymal gland, placed upon the outer side of the eye. The secretion from this is always oozing, and, passing over the eye, is car- ried into the nose through the little canal, the orifice of which is seen in the inner corner of the orbit. Mental emotion causes great increase of this secretion. The eyeball is nearly spherical. It consists of membranes placed one within the other, and humours, or fluids, which these membranes contain. It is connected with the eyebrows by means of the conjunctiva, a mucous membrane, which, lining them, is reflected over the anterior part of the eyeball. I The fig. 1, Plate II., represents a section of the globe of the