THE IMPERIAL JOURNAL OF 78 II. The Difference betwixt Muscular Power, and Nervous I from the multiplier to the multiplicand and product, which are at some distance ; this materially increases the risk of errors, and renders it almost always essentially requisite to do the work twice over where the result is important. ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY. CHAPTER III. TnE MUSCLES AND MUSCULAR ACTION. I. A General Description of the Mechanism, and Uses of the Muscles. A muscle is composed of long slender fibres, which possess the power of contracting, and are everywhere enveloped in common cellular membranes ; the fibres become fewer as they approach the extremity of the muscle, and ultimately terminate. The cellular substance (that envelops them) being thus freed from the muscular fibres joins more closely together, and forms itself into a white round ropy or flattened tendon—when the muscular fibres contract, their power is united on the tendon, and drawing it up, make it perform the action of a pulley. Tendons are therefore composed, not of muscular fibres, but of the cellular substances with which the fibres are enveloped. Every muscle is supplied with arteries, veins, lymphatics, and nerves ; for with- out these they could neither grow, renew, nor contract. Their vital power is derived from their nerves. Muscles are of two kinds, simple and compound. The simple are called ventriform, when their bellies are large, hut diminish in size as they approach their tendons. Fig. 1. They are Fig. 1. called parallel, when their fibres terminate in a broad fibrous web, without tendons. Fig. 2. They are penniform, when their Fig. 2. fibres run parallel, but oblique to their tendons, like feathers on one side of a quill. Fig. 3. They are double-penniform when Fig. 3. two ranges of parallel fibres pass obliquely into a tendon running along their centre. Fig. 4. They are double-bellied where they Fig. 4. have two bellies meeting, and inserted into one tendon. Fig. 5. Fig. 5. They are called fan-shaped, when they are broad and thin at the origin, and thick at its insertion into the tendon. Fig. 6. In fishes, Fig. 6. the muscles are white, in man red; but the blood which makes them red can be washed away. Different muscles accomplish very different purposes. 1st. They envelop, compress, and sustain, the viscera, or internal organs of the abdomen, or belly. 2d. They lengthen, shorten, or compress, some organ or organs—such as the tongue, Ac. 3d. They widen, or contract, some opening,—as the sphincter muscles do, at the entrance of the natural passages of the body. 4th. They roll, or move, the organs of the senses,—such as the eye, ear, Ac. 6th. They relax, pull up, or make rigid, a valve, as the epiglotis ; a septum, or division of parts, as the velum pendulum palati, or vail of the palate, Ac, 6th. When they are inserted, or attached to bones, we perform by their action, locomotion, as walking, running, leaping, dancing, Ac. Some of the tendons are flat and broad like a web,—others radiate and spread out into digitations like fingers,—and some are long and round, like cords. The muscles, especially of the extremities, are, in general, either flexors, extensors, pronators, adductors, abductors, or rotators. The flexors bend, or draw down the limb, or the part to which they are attached, if it has a moveable joint, and are placed under that part of the body on which they act, as anta- gonists to the extensors. The extensors raise, elevate, and ex- tend, the moveable parts to which they belong, and are placed on the superior surface, as antagonists to the flexors. Some mus- cles move the parts obliquely, as the oblique muscles of the eye —some make them describe a semicircle, as in the motions of the neck, arms, and legs, Ac.—some elevate the parts, as the upper eyelids, Ac. ; others contract them, as the eyebrows ; or corrugate them, as the extremity of the lips—some are abduc- tors, and others adductors, as in the legs, arms, fingers, toes, Ac., moving them to either side. Some are supinators, and others pronators, as in the forearm and fingers, Ac.—some are trans- verse, others straight, oblique, or pyramidal, as on the abdomen or belly, Ac.—some are erectors, others ejaculators, as in the sexual and seminal organs—some are half-membranous and half- tendinous—as in the legs, Ac. In short, muscles are as varied in form as in action, and perfectly adapted to the wise pur- poses for which the Great Architect of the universe has inimita- bly formed and designed them, in the sublime and beautiful mechanism of the living animal machine. Sensibility. The vital power of a muscle resides in the nerves, and is ner- vous. Its irritable power is the property by which it feels and acts, when stimulated without consciousness. It is an inherent principle, and belongs to its constitution, and remains for some time after death. Ligaments and tendons support the same weight, whether dead or alive ; but a living muscle, that lifts 100 lbs. with ease, cannot, after death, raise 20 lbs. without dan- ger of rupture. When a muscle is newly cut from a limb, it palpitates and trembles for a considerable time—it cannot be nervous power that thus makes it irritable; for the nerves being separated from their origin are dead and powerless. If the heart is newly separated from the body, it contracts if irritated. The bowels continue their peristaltic motion after death, until they become stiff and cold—even in vegetable life, as in the sen- sitive plant, this contractile power is visibly exhibited. It is not nervous power ; for it belongs absolutely to the muscle, and ex- ists in some cases without nervous vitality altogether—hence there is a distinction betwixt nervous sensibility, and muscular irritability. The former dies immediately with the animal; the latter lives for a short time after the animal is dead. Muscles are irritable and contractile by the inherent principle of their fibres, and are sensible by the vitality communicated through their nerves. Though nerves are sensible, they are not contrac- tile, and cannot perform the functions of muscular fibres. The muscles are of two kinds—voluntary and involuntary ; the heart is stimulated involuntarily by the circulating blood—the stomach by food—the bowels by their contents—the kidneys by urine -the genital system, by sensual appetite—and the womb by its foetus. But the voluntary muscles are stimulated by the nerves, and obedient to our will—we lift our hands and arms— jump and walk—dance and sing—because we will them. The muscles of these parts are therefore voluntary; but the heart moves without our will, and is therefore an involuntary muscle. The nerves do not move like muscles under the influence of stimuli—they only convey the impressions or commands betwixt