267 ART, SCIENCE, MECHANICS, AND ENGINEERING. the amount of atmospheric pressure upon him amounts to 14 tons. This he sustains without the slightest inconvenience; and the ex- planation is, that every cavity of his body is distended with aeriform matter of the same elastic force. The human structure may be regarded as a collection of open and close vessels, all of which are “ packed in fluids.” On the closed parts the pressure is equal inside and outside, and in case of such parts as arc open, there is equilibrium between the internal and external air. Indeed, were it not for this same atmospheric pressure, which at first sight may seem an inconvenience, the finer vessels of the animal body would infallibly be ruptured and life destroyed, by the elasticity of the fluids within them. That we are able to move about under our atmospheric load, without being conscious of its existence, is owing to the equality of its action, and the perfect mobility of the particles through which it is transmitted ; for, like all fluids, the gravity of air presses upward as well as downward, and laterally, and in every direction. We have already remarked that the baro- meter is the bequest of Torricelli to science. This is essentially nothing more than a glass tube of about 33 inches long, with its open end placed in a cup of mercury. Water is sometimes employed, but the tube then requires to be about as many feet in length. The instrument is prepared thus :— First, fill the tube with the liquid, then having covered the open end with the finger, carefully invert it and place it under the surface of the mercury in the cup. Upon removing the finger the mercury will fall a certain distance, leaving a Column in the tube of a height corresponding to the at- mospheric pressure at the time. A scale being then attached, the instrument is com- plete. Several modifications of the barometer are in use ; but their theoretical action is the same as the straight tube barometer described, and none of them are better. From causes which are not well understood, and which we cannot in the mean time wait to consider, the barometer informs us that the atmospheric pressure is not constant. At the equator, the mercury is at its maximum height at 9 o’clock in the morning,—past this hour it becomes less till 4 in the afternoon, when it reaches its minimum. It again ascends till 11 at night, when it reaches its second maximum, and once more descends till 4 in the morning, after whigh it reascends till 9. Thus, every day, the mercurial column is at its lowest elevation at 4 o’clock in the morning, qnd afternoon; and at its greatest, at 9 in the morning, and 11 in the evening. These periodic varia- tions are small, being calculated at less than T\ and more than tV of an inch by Humboldt; (namely, ToSeoU inch)- In Europe, they are nearly obliterated by changes of atmospheric pressure depend- ing upon accidental causes, which at the equator are nearly absent. It is upon these changes that we found the indications of the barometer as a weather-glass,—experience having pointed out that the w'eathcr is commonly fair and calm when the mercury is high, and wet and stormy when the mercury descends. As far as the horary variations can be observed in our northern latitudes, the maximum in winter appears to be at 9 in the morning; the minimum at 3 in the afternoon; and the second maximum at 9 in the evening. In the, summer, the maximum ele- vations are at 8 in the morning, and 11 at night; the minimum being at 4 in the afternoon. In spring and autumn, the times of these variations are intermediate with those of summer and winter.—Dr Golding Bird. As a column of 30 inches mercury; answers to a pressure of 15 lbs. to the square inch, a fall of the mercurial column of an inch answers to a diminution of pressure of £ lb. on the square inch. Thus, if the barometric column stands at 29 inches, the atmospheric pressure is 14^ lbs. instead;of 15 lbs., and so on of all similar variations. There is, therefore, no difficulty in under- standing why persons of weakly constitutions often feel consider- able discomfort from sudden change’s of the weather: the barometric oscillations which wc experience in this country are considerable, often occasioning, in the 'course of a few hours, a change of pressure upon our bodies of not less than a ton weight. We shall next direct attention to the chemical constitution of our atmosphere, and examine the subject a little more strictly. ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY. CHAPTER IX. THE BONES. TnE important offices fulfilled by bone in the animal economy, and its almost imperishable nature, have always given it import- ance in the eyes of the philosopher; while the phrases in use in every language bear testimony to the high place it holds in popular estimation. We see it forming a frame-work to give shape and support to the body, cases and cages to protect the more delicate organs, and levers by which locomotion is per- formed, and force exerted. Again, we find it among the tombs, successfully resisting agencies which had reduced the softer parts of our bodies to dust a century before; and we speak of laying our bones in the grave as if they constituted the essential ele- ment of our frames. In order to be fitted for the purposes above referred to, the bones, whose union constitutes the skeleton, are at once hard and tough; hard to resist external violence, and tough to give them a degree of elasticity. This hardness we shall find to depend on the large proportion of inorganic matter, especially of lime, which enters into the composition of bony tissue. This chemi- cal constitution also accounts for its durability. Let us, in this article, devote our attention to what is called its general anatomy; that is to say, its physical properties, and chemical composition; its organization as a part of the living body, and any peculiarities that may appear worthy of the notice of the unprofessional reader. The most remarkable property in bone, and that which first strikes us, is its great hardness, as compared with other parts of the body. It is, indeed, the only part of the body entitled to be called hard,—cartilage, which comes next to it, admitting of being cut with a knife. This hardness increases with old age, from the greater proportion of earthy matter which is deposited into its interstices, and it is much less in children of tender years. Its specific gravity is greater than that of any other animal substance. Its colour in the living body is a pale roseate tint, inclining in young children to red, and in old age to a yellowish white. It assumes a beautiful white colour after having been frequently boiled, or long steeped in water, till the oily and sanguine fluids which pervade it have been entirely re- moved. Bone is very feebly translucent,—even in thin plates transmitting only a slight quantity of light. It is, however, flexi- ble and elastic. The ribs afford a good example of this, as any one may satisfy himself by compressing his chest with his two hands; and many a one has to thank this quality for his escap- ing with impunity from the pressure of a dense crowd. The elasticity of the bones frequently saves them from fracture, and lessens the shocks which they convey to the brain, and other soft textures which they support and defend. Bones assume every variety of shape, as might be expected from the various uses made of them in such a complex machine as the skeleton. These varieties have been reduced by anato- mists to four classes; the long or cylindrical, the broad or flat, the short or round, and the mixed or irregular. The long bones are distinguished by their length, which greatly exceeds their other dimensions. They are found only in the extremities, and are adapted for locomotion, and for sustaining the weight of the body. They are never exactly cylindrical, being smallest about the middle, and enlarged at each end where they are jointed to one another. The broad or flat bones are thin, and generally somewhat arched, being fitted to protect some more delicate organs; the best specimens of them are those forming the cra- nium, and protecting the brain. The short bones are of irregular figures, but are all somewhat roundish; they are found in the wrist, and the instep of the foot. The mixed or irregular bones are sometimes classed along with the short; but it is better to