192 THE IMPERIAL JOURNAL OF a graduated tube, so arranged that the gaseous surface exposed to the rays never varies iu extent, notwithstanding the contrac- tion which may be going on in its volume, and the muriatic acid resulting from its union is removed by rapid absorption. The theoretical conditions of the instrument are therefore sufficiently simple ; but, when we come to put them into prac- tice, obstacles which appear at first sight insurmountable are met with. The means of obtaining chlorine are all troublesome; no liquid is known which will perfectly confine it; it is a matter of great difficulty to mix it in the true proportion with hydrogen, and have no excess of either. Nor is it at all an easy affair to obtain pure hydrogen speedily, and both these gases diffuse with rapidity through water into air. Without dwelling further on the long catalogue of difficulties which is thus to be encountered, I shall first give an account of the instrument in the form I now use it, which will show to what an extent all those difficulties are already overcome. Description of the instrument. First, of the glass part.—The tithonometer consists of a glass tube bent into the form of a siphon, in which chlorine and hydrogen can be evolved from muriatic acid, containing chlorine in solution, by the agency of a voltaic current. It is represented by fig. 1, where a b c is a Fig. 3. aQ clear and thin tube, four-tenths of an inch external diameter, closed at the end, a. At d, a circular piece of metal, an iucli in diameter, which may be called the stage, is fastened on the tube, the distance from d to a being 2'9 inches. At the point, x, which is two inches and a quarter from d, two platina wires, x and y, are fused into the glass, and entering into the interior of the tube, are destined to furnish the supply of chlorine and hydrogen; from the stage, d, to the point, b, the inner bend of the tube is 2'6 inches, and from that point to the top of the siphon o, tho distance is three inches and a half. Through the glass at z, three quarters of an inch from c, a third platina wire is passed ; this wire terminates in the little mercury cup r, and x and y La the cups p and q respectively. Things being thus arranged, the instrument is filled with its fluid, prepared, as will presently be described ; and as the legs a b, b c, are not parallel to each other, but include an angle of a few degrees, in the same way that Ure’s eudiometer is arranged, there is no difficulty in transferring the liquid to the sealed leg. Enough is admitted to fill the sealed leg and the open one partially, leaving an empty space, to the top of the tube ate, of two and three quarter inches. A stout tube, six inches long and one-tenth of an inch interior diameter, e f, is now fused on at c. Its lower end opens into the main siphon tube ; its upper end is turned over at f, and is nar- rowed to a fine termination, so as barely to admit a pin, but is not closed. This serves to keep out dust, and in case of a little acid passing out, it does not flow over the scale and deface the divisions. At the back of this tube a scale is placed, divided into tenths of an inch, being numbered from above downward. Fifty of these divisions are as many as will be required. Fig. 2 shows the termination of the narrow tube bent over the scale. From a point one-fourth of an inch above the stage d, down- wards beyond the bend, and to within half an inch of the wire Z, the whole tube is carefully painted with India ink so as to allow no light to pass ; but all the space, from a fourth of an inch above the stage d, to the top of the tube a, is kept as clear and transparent as possible. This portion constitutes the sentient part of the instrument. A light metallic or pasteboard cap, ad, fig. 3, closed at the top and open at the bottom, three inches long and six-tenths of an inch in diameter, blackened on its in- terior, may be dropped over this sentient tube; it being tho office of the stage d to receive the lower end of the cap when it is dropped on the tube so as to shut out the light. The foot of the instrument, h 1, is of brass, it screws into the hemispherical block ni, which may be made of hard wood or ivory ; in this three holes, p q r, are made to serve as mercury cups ; they should be deep and of small diameter, that the metal may not flow out when it inclines for the purpose of transferring. A brass cylindrical cover l m, l m, may be put over the whole; when it is desirable to preserve it in total darkness, it should be blackened without. Secondly, of the Fluid Part.—The fluid from which the mix- ture of chlorine and hydrogen is evolved, and by which it is confined, is yellow commercial muriatic acid, holding such a quantity of chlorine in solution that it exerts no action on the mixed gases as they are produced. From the mode of its prepa- ration it always contains a certain quantity of chloride of platina, which gives it a deep golden colour, a condition of considerable incidental importance. When muriatic acid is decomposed by voltaic electricity its chlorine is not evolved, but is taken up in very largo quantity and held in solution ; perhaps a bichloride of hydrogen results. If through such a solution hydrogen gas is passed in minute bubbles, it removes with it a certain proportion of the chlorine. From this therefore it is plain, that muriatic acid thus decom- posed will not yield equal measures of chlorine and hydrogen unless it has been previously impregnated with a certain volume of the former gas. Nor is it possible to obtain that degree of saturation by voltaic action, no matter how long the electrolysis is continued, if the hydrogen is allowed to pass through the liquid. Practically, therefore, to obtain the tithonometric liquid, we are obliged to decompose commercial muriatic acid in a glass vessel, the positive electrodes being at the bottom of the vessel and the negative at the surface of the liquid. Under these cir- cumstances, the chlorine as it is disengaged is rapidly taken up, and the hydrogen being set free without its bubbles passing | through the mass, the impregnation is carried to the point j required. Although this chlorinated muriatic acid cannot, of course, be kept in contact with the platina wires without acting on then), the action is much slower than might have been anticipated. 1 have examined the wires of tithonometers that had been in active use for four months, and could not perceive the platina sensibly destroyed. It is well, however, to put a piece of platina