ART, SCIENCE, MECHANICS, AND ENGINEERING. G17 jiecn brought to the lungs in the venous blood, after having leen collected in the course of the circulation. More car- |>on then is given off in winter than in summer; that is to say, (here is more waste constantly going on. Hence arises the liecessity for more food in winter than in summer—a feeling (if which every one is conscious, though he does not know its •ause. In warm climates, for the same reason, the food aken in is less nourishing in its quality, as well as less in [uantity—the people live on fruits and grain, while, in the jar north, they luxuriate on fat bacon and train oil. It is no difficult matter to be moderate in warm climates—want of food j-an be borne for a long time under the equator; but cold and iiunger united, soon exhaust the strongest body. Another very interesting branch of this subject next comes before us, namely, that the mutual action of the food and ixygen in the body, is the source of animal heat. I All living creatures, depending for existence on the breath- ing of oxygen, have a source of heat within themselves, inde- pendent of surrounding objects. This statement holds true j)f all animals, and its application extends to the springing (if seeds, the flowering of plants, and the ripening of fruits. July those parts to which the oxygen goes, possess heat. Those parts which have no circulation, as hair, wool, and eathers, have no heat in themselves; they aid in keeping a ■reature warm, because they neither radiate nor conduct leat. The temperature of animals, therefore, is the result of he combination of carbon with oxygen. This combination, ihemists well know, cannot take place without heat; and vhether it be evolved so rapidly or so slowly, as to produce i high or a low temperature, still, the absolute quantity of teat is the same. Every one, who has attended the most popular chemical ecture, has seen a bit of charcoal burnt with great splendour n a jar of oxygen. Now, the carbon of the food, converted nto carbonic acid in the body, gives out as much heat as if t had been burnt. In pure oxygen, the heat is intense, be- cause the combustion is rapid ; in common air it is less in- tense, because slower ; within the body, it is more gradual still From all that has been said, it must be plain, that the heat of the body will be greater or less, according to the greater Jar less quantity of oxygen used in respiration. The more frequent the respirations, the greater will be the heat. An infant, who breathes thirty times in the minute, maintains a temperature of 102"’, while an adult, who breathes eighteen times, will show a heat of only 98’. Birds maintain a tem- perature of 104’ or 105°; quadrupeds from 9S’ to 100°; and even fishes and amphibia, are 2° or 3° warmer than the water in which they live. All animals, therefore, are strictly warm- blooded, i. e., warmer than the medium in which the}' live, though only so warm as to deserve the name, in those who breath by means of lungs. The most trustworthy observa- tions on the temperature of man and the lower animals, show (that it remains the same in all climates, being regulated by (several different circumstances.—(See Vol. I. p. 202.) The animal body is a heated mass, bearing the same rela- jtion to the surrounding objects, as any other heated mass, which receives heat, or loses heat, from the other bodies round it. Its rapidity of cooling will vary as the external tempera- ture varies; yet the lost heat is made up, and the tempera- ture is kept equable. It is evident, then, that the heat lost by cooling is sup- plied by the mutual action of the elements of the food and the inspired oxygen, which combine together. The animal body is a furnace, of which the food is the fuel. It matters not what forms the food assumes, nor what changes it under- goes within the body—the last change is always the same; | carbon is converted into carbonic acid, and hydrogen into water, each by the addition of oxygen ; while the unburned ii carbon, and the nitrogen, whether from the unused food, or from the old parts of the body which have been absorbed, are expelled as urine and perspiration, or as solid excrement. Of course, in order to keep the furnace at a constant tem- perature, we must vary the supply of fuel according to the Vol. I. temperature of the surrounding air, as that regulates the supply of oxygen, by altering its density. From what has been said, it must be plain, that in winter, when we take active exercise in the cold air, and the amount of oxygen which is inspired, increases, our need for food containing carbon and hydrogen increases in the same ratio ; and it is a wise provision of our Creator, that, by gratifying the appetite which has been thus excited, we obtain the most sufficient protection against the most piercing cold. A starv- ing man is soon frozen, as we should expect from this rule, and the beasts of prey in the arctic regions greatly exceed in voracity those of the torrid zone. In the temperate and frigid zones, the denser air which is respired consumes the body so much faster, that it urges men to labour, to furnish the means of subsistence ; while in hot climates, the waste being much less, the necessity of la- bouring for food is much less urgent. Hence, the natives are reckoned lazy; and those, whose state of slavery deprives them of the power to choose, are compelled by the lash to labour for others whose station in life enables them to comply with the requirement of the climate by living at ease. Our clothing, in this point of view, is merely an equivalent for food. The more warmly we are clothed, the less urgent is the need for food, because the loss of heat by the cooling ol the surface, and the necessity for supplying it again by food, are lessened too. If we ran about naked, like savages, hunt, ing and fishing, we should be able, during the cold of winter, to eat, like the Samoiedes, eight or ten pounds of flesh at a sitting, and finish with a dessert consisting of a dozen of tal- low candles! The spirits and the train oil which these northern savages swallow' in such profusion, consist of com- bustibles, carbon and hydrogen, and only suffice to keep up the equilibrium between the external temperature, and that of their own bodies. Let us now look at this subject in re’ation to health. The Italian cannot take more carbon and hydrogen in his food than he expires under the form of carbonic acid and W'ater; and the Laplander cannot expire more carbonic acid and water than he takes in as food, unless in starvation, or while labouring under disease. The Englishman in Jamaica regrets the disappearance of his appetite, which had previ- ously been to him a source of constantly recurring enjoyment, and he succeeds, by means of pepper and other stimulants, in getting himself to swallow as much food as he was accustomed to do at home. But the whole of the carbon is not consumed; the oppressive heat prevents him from increasing the num- ber of respirations by active exercise, and so proportion- ing the waste to the amount of food taken ; the carbon, therefore, accumulates in the system, and disease is the ine- vitable consequence. On the other hand, England sends her sick, whose de- ranged digestive organs have lost the power of bringing the food into a fit state for combining w ith oxygen, and therefore are, in their own persons, ready to be consumed by it, to southern regions, where, from the heat, the amount of oxv- gen inspired is diminished in so great a proportion ; and an obvious improvement in health is the result. The weak or- gans of digestion have power enough to digest food enough to combine with the smaller quantity of heated oxygen which is inspired ; while, in a colder climate, this necessary amount of digestion being impossible, the organs of respiration, the lungs themselves, would have become the fuel to the flame In our own climate, bilious diseases, or those from excess ol carbon, are prevalent in summer, while pulmonary diseases, or those from excess of oxygen, prevail in winter. The cooling of the body, it has been already explained, increases the amount of food necessary, and so is an impor- tant agent on the health of the digestive organs. Mere ex- posure to the air, even without exercise, in a carriage or a boat., by increadugrudiation and vaporization front the surface, increases the loss cf heat, and compels us to eat more than usual. The same is true of those who take large draughts of cold water, which is given off again in perspiration, or urine, at the temperature of the body, 98°. This process increases