ART, SCIENCE, MECHANICS, AND ENGINEERING. 115 when we are enraged, or spasmodically cough, as we do in asthma. 2d. Levator labii superioris proprius forms part of the cheek and upper lip, and pulls the upper lip and septum of the nose directly upwards. 3d. Levator anguli oris forms part of the angle of the mouth, and raises it upward. 4th. Zigomaticus major forms part of the cheek, the corner and circle of the mouth, and depresses the lip. 5th. Zigomaticus minor has its origin, insertion, and action, nearly the same as the zigomaticus major. Ihese zigomatic muscles mark the face with the line (which extends so visibly in some individuals,) from the cheek-bone to the corner of the mouth, and pull the angles of the mouth upward, when we laugh, rage, or grin. In negroes, there are frequently three zigomatic muscles, but only two in Europeans. 6th. Buccinator assists in forming the walls of the cheek, flat- tens the cheek, assists us in swallowing liquids, and in turning the morsel we are chewing in our mouths, and likewise prevents it getting betwixt our teeth; and when we blow wind instruments, liese muscles dilate like a bag, and, contracting upon the wind in the mouth, expel it, and swell the notes. 7th. Depressor anguli oris forms part of the flesh of the lower jaw and corner of the mouth, gives form to the chin and mouth, and expresses laughing, smiling, and other cheerful passions. It also assists in pulling the corner of the mouth downward, especially when we express the malignant passions of hatred, contempt, and revenue. Depressor labii inferioris lies on the sides of the chin, and pulls the hp downward. 9th. Orbicularis oris lies in the red °r»the hpS’ surrounds the mouth, contracts and shuts it. lUth. Depressor labii superioris, and alas nasi, arises from the socket of the fore teeth, goes into the root of the nostril, and pulls the nose and upper lip downward. 11th. Constrictor nasi lies on the side of the nose, goes to its very point, and compresses it. l.th. Levator menti arises at the root of the incisor teeth, dimple °n the Centre °f the chin’ contracts it. and forms the The muscles of the nose and mouth are not only useful to ex- press our passions, but also assist us in performing the more im- portant functions of breathing, speaking, chewing, swallowing, c., an opening and shutting the mouth. Partial paralysis of these muscles induces a frightful distortion of the countenance. If ne side of the face only is paralyzed, the palsied muscles of the ec e. side cease to act, and the sound ones on the healthy side t exerting their usual vigour, pull the palsied muscles toward the unparalyzed side, and distort the face. In some individuals, when the facial muscles and passions are at rest, their countenances indicate nothing but muscular harmony; but whenever they smile, laugh, grin, or exhibit anger, their mouths and faces are instantly drawn to one side, and re- main in that state till the paroxysm is over. This is caused by a chronic paralysis of some of the muscles on one side of the face having reduced their power, and made it unequal to their antago- msts of the opposite side. ® On the external ear there are eight muscles. 1st. Superior auns, expands on the fascia of the temporal muscle behind the ear terminates in the antihelix, (or inner ring of the ear,) poste- riorly, and lifts the ear upward. 2d. Anterior auris, arises from the zigoma, (or arch of the cheek,) and passes into the helix, or outward ring of the ear. 3d. Posterior auris, arises from the mastoid process of the temporal bone on the side of the head and is inserted into the back part of the concha, or shell of the ear. 4th. Helicis major, lies on the sharp point of the helix, or outward ring of the ear, and is inserted a little above the tragus, or the outward cartilage, or grisly substance of the ear. 5 th. Helicis minor, lies a little lower on the ear than the helicis major. 6th. rragicus, and 7th. Antitragicus, lie contiguous to each other, on the ear, anteriorly, almost in juxtaposition. 8th. Transversus auris, runs on the back part of the ear, from the shell to the inner ring. There are still a few smaller muscles, which also belong to the ear, move and give tension to its external cartilages, and prepare it for receiving and propagating the vibrations of air and sound along its tube. These I will not here describe nor enumerate, because they are too minute for the general student to perceive, unless by actual dissection. The muscles of the eyeball are six in number. 1st. Rectus superior, lifts the eye directly upward, and expresses its haughti- ness and pride. 2d. Rectus inferior, pulls the eye downward expressing modesty and humility. 3d. Rectus interims, carries the eye inward, towards the nose. 4th. Rectus externus, turns the eye away, expressing anger and scorn. 5th. Obliquus supe- rior, (like the recti superior and inferior,) arises in the bottom of the eye, above, towards the inner side, directing its long smooth tendon to the internal angle of the eye, and there it passes through a cartilaginous pulley, placed above the eye, and projecting far- ther than the most prominent part of the eyeball. The tendinous cord then returns at an acute angle, and bends its centre down- ward before it can touch the eyeball; it then returns backward in a direction opposite the recti muscles, slips under the body of the rectus superior, and spreads under it, and upon, or behind the mid- dle of the eye, about half-way betwixt the insertion of the rectus superior and the entrance of the optic nerve into the eyeball. 6th. Obliquus inferior, is directly opposed to the obliquus superior in form, place, and office : it is a short, flat, broad mus- cle, arising from the orbitary process of the superior maxillary or cheekbone, near its union with the os unguis (or eyebone,) and is inserted and expanded on the eyeball, exactly opposite the insertion of the obliquus superior. These two last named muscles, (obliqui superior and inferior,) support the eyeball for the opera- tion of the recti muscles; for when the oblique muscles act, and pull the eye forward, the recti muscles resist them, and the in- sertion of the oblique muscles at the middle of the eyeball be- comes, at that instant, a fixed point or axis, round which the eyeball turns, under the operation of the recti muscles. The conjoined action of the oblique muscles brings the eyeball for- ward from the socket. The superior oblique muscle, acting alone, does not bring forward the eye, but rolls it so as to turn the pupil downward and towards the nose. The single action of the obliquus inferior is the reverse, for it returns the eye again upon its axis, and directs the pupil upward and outward. But it may be necessary to enter a little more minutely into the mechanism ana physiology of the recti muscles of the eye, collectively and individually, to make the reader more easily comprehend their harmony and usefulness, in making us accom- plish a mechanically correct vision, and see objects as they are distinctly. The four recti muscles, superior, inferior, internus, and externus, arise by flat, small tendons, round the margin of the optic foramen, (or hole,) at the bottom of the socket, and are placed, one above, one below, and one on either side, and completely surround and adhere to the optic nerve; they then gradually expand upward, and with their fleshy bellies surround and cover the middle of the ball of the eye, and still expanding and extending upward, each at last terminates in a broad, flat” white tendon, covering all the fore part of the eyeball up to the