238 THE IMPERIAL JOURNAL OF way, to admire the beauties of nature, and gaze on the relics of past ages, is the happiest and most independent of travel- lers ; and as he cheerily passes along his road, trusting only to the powerful muscles of his lower extremities, to carry him to the end of his journey, he feels an elasticity of body, and a buoyancy of mind, indescribably pleasant; and as he exercises the active muscles of his limbs, and inhales the pure air, he im- parts strength to the whole muscular system, and feels enjoy- ment that will delight him in his future years, with the sweetest reminiscences of the pleasures of the travels of the past. The man who ha3 never examined and studied the mechanism and functions of the muscles is apt to conclude, that the flesh is a solid mass, without any other use than to cover the bones, and constitute by its bulk, the external portion of the body. But when he minutely examines its anatomy and physiology, he per- ceives that it is mechanically constructed, and separated into long, broad, thin, layers; lying side by side, and above each other, and that each muscle is composed of long, slender fibres, each enclosed in its own cellular sheath ; and that individually and combined, they perform every motion of the animal machine. It is the muscular system that chiefly distinguishes the activity of animals from vegetables, and gives the faculty of locomotion to the one, and immovability to the other. Yet some plants exhibit muscularity in a very limited extent. The sensitive plant shrinks its leaves from the touch of the human finger. The Venus fly-trap shuts its leaves on the insect that preys on the sweets of its bosom, and crushes it to death. The sunflower opens its bosom to the rising sun, and follows his course during day; and at night again closes its beautiful leaves, when the sun is absent. These are undoubtedly muscular actions, and, as far as they extend, are little inferior to the muscular motions of zoophites and some of the lowest tribes of animal existences. But the complete faculty of locomotion is denied them, and man and animals alone enjoy it in perfection. The creeping plants make the nearest approximation to the locomotion of animals. On some parts of the body, particularly over the temporal muscles, the abdomen, the back, the arms, and thighs, a strong broad fascial membrane is spread over the muscles, to protect, cover, and give them firmness. This partial covering, by its gentle and powerful expansion, defends the internal parts from injury, and facilitates muscular motion. When we thus look with philosophical minds into the great arcana of animated nature, and accurately comprehend it, we discover the visible presence of that invisible Being, who sits in mysterious silence behind the elements he has formed, and gives birth and movement to every atom. IVe have now finished the muscles. The accompanying plates will enable the reader to determine their localities with accu- racy. In the next essay we shall begin to describe the bones, and we may safely promise that the subject will become more interesting as we advance. BI 0 G U A P IIY. T II O M AS S I M P S O N, F. R. S. This very eminent mathematician was born at Market Bosworth, in the county of Leicester, the 20th of August, 1710. Ilis father was a stuff-weaver in that town ; and though in tolerable circum- stances, yet, intending to bring up his son Thomas to his own business, he took so little care of his education, that he was only taught to read English. But nature had furnished him with talents and a genius for far other pursuits, and which led him afterwards to the highest rank in the mathematical and philosophical sciences. Young Simpson very soon gave indications of his turn for study in general, by eagerly reading all books he could meet with, teaching himself to write, and embracing every opportunity he could find of deriving knowledge from other persons. Ilis father observing him thus to neglect his business, by spending his time in reading what he thought useless books, and following other similar pursuits, used all his endeavours to check such proceedings, and to induce him to follow his profession with steadiness and better effect. And after many struggles for this purpose, the differences thus produced between them at length rose to such a height, that young Simpson quitted his father’s house to seek a home for himself. On this occasion he repaired to Nuneaton, a town at a small distance from Bosworth, where he went to lodge at the house of a tailor’s widow, of the name of Swinfield, who had been left with two children, a daughter and a son, by her husband, of whom the son, who was the younger, being but about two years older than Simpson, had become his intimate friend and com- panion. And here he continued some time, working at his trade, and improving his knowledge by reading such books as he could procure. Among several other circumstances which, long before this, gave occasion to show our author’s early thirst for knowledge, as well as proving a fresh incitement to acquire it, was that of a solar eclipse, which took place on the 11th day of May, 1724. This phenomenon, so awful to many who are ignorant of the cause of it, struck the mind of young Simpson with a strong curiosity to discover the reason of it, and to be able to predict the like surprising events. It was, however, several years before he could obtain his desire, which at length was gratified by the following accident. After he had been some time at Mrs Swin- field’s at Nuneaton, a travelling pedlar came that way, and took a lodging at the same house, according to his usual custom. This man, to his profession of an itinerant merchant, had joined the more profitable one of a fortuneteller, which he performed by means of judicial astrology. Every one knows with what re- gard persons of such a cast were treated by the inhabitants ol country villages; it cannot be surprising, therefore, that an untutored lad of 19 should look upon this man as a prodigy, and, regarding him in this light, should endeavour to ingratiate himself into his favour ; in this he succeeded so well, that the sage was no less taken with the quick natural parts and genius of his new acquaintance. The pedlar, intending a journey to Bristol fair, left in the hands of young Simpson an old edition of Cocker’s Arithmetic, to which was subjoined, a short appendix on Algebra, and a book upon Genitures, by Partridge the almanac- maker. These books he had perused to so good purpose, during the absence of his friend, as to excite his amazement upon his return ; in consequence of which he set himself about erecting a genethliacal figure, in order to a presage of Thomas’ future fortune. This position of the heavens having been maturely considered, secundum artem, the wizard with great confidence pronounced, that, “within two years’ time, Simpson would turn out a greater man than himself!” In fact, our author profited so well by the encouragement and assistance of the pedlar, afforded him from time to time when he occasionally came to Nuneaton, that, by the advice of his friend, he at length made an open profession of casting nativities him- self ; from which, together with teaching an evening school, lie derived a pretty pittance; so that he greatly neglected his weav- ing, to which indeed he had never manifested any great attach- ment, and soon became the oracle of Nuneaton, Bosworth, and the environs. Scarce a courtship advanced to a match, or a bargain to a sale, without previously consulting the infallible Simpson about the consequences. But as to helping the people to stolen goods, he always declared that above his skill; and over life and death he declared he had no power: all those called lawful questions he readily resolved, providing the persons were certain as to the horary data of the horoscope; and, he has often declared, with such success, that if from very cogent reasons ho had not been thoroughly convinced of the vain foundation and fallaciousness of his art, he never should have dropt it, as lie afterwards found himself in conscience bound to do. About this time he married the widow Swinfield, in whose house he lodged, though she was then almost old enough to be his grandmother, being upwards of fifty years of age. After this the family lived comfortably enough together for some short time, -—Simpson occasionally working at his business as a weaver in the daytime, and teaching an evening school or telling fortunes at night; the family being also further assisted by the labours of young Swinfield, who had been brought up in the profession of his father. But this tranquillity was soon interrupted, and our author driven at once from his home and the profession of astrology, by the fob