336 THE IMPERIAL JOURNAL OF philosophical, as at once to create a doubt that this supposed increase of heat in the furnace does not take place; and that they must be in error here also. Again, from Mr Dunlop’s table in the appendix to Professor Clark’s paper, it is there stated that, with the cold blast, the weekly consumpt of fuel was about 3 tons 12 cwt. of coke, while, when the air was heated to 300°, about 2 tons 7 cwt. sufficed; and with four furnaces, and the air heated to 000°, only 2 tons 5 cwt. of green coal, in place of coke, were used to the ton of iron. In page G, we are likewise informed that, during the successive periods specified, the same blowing apparatus was in use, and the furnaces at Clyde Iron Works, which were at first three, had been increased to four, and the blast machinery being still the same, Ac. And, in the last page of the appendix, the blowing engine has a steam-cylinder of 40 inches diameter, and a blowing cylinder of 8 feet deep, and 80 inches diameter, and goes 18 strokes a minute. The whole power of the engine was exerted in blowing three furnaces, as well as in blowing four; and, in both cases, there were two tuyeres of 3 inches diameter to each furnace. The pressure of the blast was 2\ lbs. on the square inch. The engine then went less than 18 strokes a minute, in consequence of the too great resistance of the materials contained in the three furnaces to the blast in its passage upward. These statements being quite at variance with the known laws of the elasticity of air, to conceive that, with a uniform pressure of 2J lbs. to the square inch, the same quantity of air should be discharged through the same ori- fices when expanded to more than double its former volume, at once awakened my suspicions that they must be deceiving them- selves with this also; and, at the same time, it seeVied to afford me a key to the whole of the mysteries of this saving of fuel by the use of the hot blast. However, before saying anything more on the subject, I resolved to see some of the smelters, and bear their opinion of this singular and obvious overlook in the appendix. On calling their attention to it, I was not a little surprised to find that this was their opinion also, and that their blow-pipes were still of the same size as when they were using the cold blast—that the pressure they used was still the same— } that their engines were wrought at the same speed as for- merly—and that they were not letting any of the blast escape— neither was there any extra leakage in the heating apparatus, at their works, so far as they were aware.* Indeed, I found that all with whom I spoke believed it to be the case, as stated in Pro- fessor Clark’s paper. However, as I knew this to he impossible, I again pressed the question on one of the most scientific of the gentlemen, and he admitted that he had taken the patentees’ word for it : he had made the same objection to them when it was first spoken of, but was assured of its being a curi- ous fact, that the dilating of air by heat made no differ- ence whatever in this respect. As I considered the assertions of a sanguine or interested patentee no authority, he then, by way of convincing me, observed that, perhaps, air at a high temperature might be like a sponge full of water, which was much easier squeezed to half the size, than to squeeze it dry; ® In these conversations with the smelters, I observed that, since this, was the case, they must only he using one-half of their former blast, and that it should he called half-blast and not hot-blast, as it was the want of air that saved the fuel—hut this they would not admit. Howeve”, in the autumn of 1837, (a'ter I had read this paper,) I again met two of them, and the conversation turned upon it. They now admitted that I was right after all as to the hot air being only a.half-blast; because, with the same cylinder, they were now blowing more furnaces with the hot, than they formerly could do with the cold air. And they laughed heartily at a singular explanation of this mystery, afforded by the. answer of an engine-keeper of a neighbouring work, whose manager was a great advocate for the hot-blast; when asked by one o their engine-keepers how he managed to keep his engine so regular, — he replied, Oh, I ju t let off the spare blast quietly ; ’tis by far the best way of regulating tile blowing-engine when she is overburthened at any time, just to let off the spare blast till she comes to her proper speed. 1 shall just mention another proof* drawn from Clyde Iron-Works itself. Having visited this work in 1840, to see their new blowing-engine, along with a young friend who had been engaged in its erection; as L had previously explained to him my views of hot-blast, to show him I was right, I put the following questions to the engine-keeper. What is the use of heating the air? Oh, ’tis to make the furnace hotter ; so much cold air in the cold blastcooled the furnace very much. Did you ever attend a cold- blast engine? Yes, for four or five years. Does it make any difference upon the engine to blow the cold or the hot blast furnaces ? Oh, yes, it makes agreat difference; the hot is much easier blown than the cold; the same engine that could only blow three furnaces with the cold, can now blow five with the hot. And with the same blowing cylinder? Yes, witli the same blowing cylinder, site cun now Mow five, while she could only blow three with cold-blast. Then could yon tell by the working of the engine, if the fire-men, at the furnaces for heating the pipes, were neglecting their fires, or letting their pipes become cool ? Yes, I can tell when they neglect any of their fires; but I cannot tell which it is till I go and see. Ilow do you know by the engine ? Because she goes quicker; sometimes she will make two strokes a minute quicker. anti, therefore, he considered it would take little or no more power to force air through the same aperture at 600°, than when cooled down to 32°. Whether this also was the general belief of the smelters I did not stop to inquire. At any rate I found they all approved of the use of hot air, although they .ad- mitted that they could produce no more iron with it, than the English smelters did with their cold blast, from the Scotch coals not being so durable ; neither could they produce quite the same results as were stated of the Clyde Iron Works. Still, they could now use green coal, which they said they could not do with cold air, because they found that when any of their heaters gave way, and they were obliged, for a time, to have recourse again to the cold air with the green coal, their iron became hard, and inferior in quality, by the furnace becoming lower in temperature, from the want of the extra heat afforded by the hot blast. And, in proof of this opinion, they asserted that, it is want of heat alone that causes the furnace to produce bad iron; for in damp weather, say they, combustion cannot go on with the same energy, and therefore the furnace must become cooler, and the iron hard. And they asserted also, that the hot air must, to a certainty, increase the heat of the furnace, and therefore they concluded that the iron must be good from the use of the hot blast. Another reason they gave in favour of it is, that their furnaces are more easily managed, not being so liable to choke and form tuyeres across the hearth—or brigg up as they call it—and they complained of the heating apparatus being a great additional expense. And further, they thought that something is gained from less power being necessary to blow the furnace with the hot air, because they conceived that the increasing expansion of the air, as it passes along the pipes, makes it rush into the furnace from the blow-pipes with a much greater velocity than the power of the engine could impel it with.f However, since the smelters seem quite satisfied with these explanations of the effects of hot air, although in direct opposition to the known laws of tem- perature and elasticity of the air—we shall leave them to their own opinions and return to their furnaces—and although rather unwieldy eudiometers to experiment with, still, we may discover from them how far this heating of the air will affect their rate of combustion, and also how much air has been used from the quantity of fuel consumed. For it must be evident that if this ! heating of the air increases the heat of the furnace so wonder- 1 fully, it must likewise accelerate the rate of combustion of the j fuel also; and, therefore, if they are right, a greater quantity of fuel must be consumed in a given time by the hot than by the cold blast, and since the combination of the oxygen in the blast, with the coke, is the sole cause of its disappearing, or sinking down from the tunnel head, to replace that which has been consumed ; therefore, this consumpt of the coke will afford us a means of determining the quantity of air that has been blown into the furnace iff,any given time also. Now, from the data furnished to Professor Clark by the patentees, from the work belonging to one of themselves, and therefore under their own immediate inspection, we find that the successive weekly consumpt of fuel put into the three furnaces at Clyde Iron Works, was as follows (the blowing machinery being still the same):— Tons. With the colrl blast, •; 403 With blast heated to 300°, (expanded about £ more in bulk) — 300 With the blast heated to 600°, (or expanded to fully twice the bulk) 1S8 this last being about the quantity of coke contained in the 416 [ tons of green coal, which is the proportion for three of the fur- naces. Now, if we allow a little for the loss of heat by radiation and the imperfection of their first heating apparatus—which they acknowledge to have been imperfect—the consumpt of fuel t Having had occasion to call upon an engineer, 1 found him engaged will' a smelter, who was relating to him the following as a very curious experiment lie had just made:—We were getting a new set of heaters for one of om j furnaces, when I caused a small hole to be drilled through each pipe, just ai j lie top of the bend, so that I might test the pressure in each. After they , were in full operation. 1 tried each pipe with a pressure gnage; and strange .0 say, I found the pressure the same over the whole of them—it was quite tue same in each pipe. My friend remarked rather drily, I think you might Hart expected that. Well, said he, I can assure you it is the general belief in tin trade, that the pressure is different in each pipe, and that it continues I increase as the air becomes heated in its passage through them, until it get off at the nozzles; but this is not the case after all, although it was upon inn principle the patent was taken out. And it was just because I had some doun 1 about it that I resolved to try it, and now I find it is not so.