ART, SCIENCE, MECHANICS, AND ENGINEERING. and behind, pulls them upward and outward, and so increases the capacity of the chest. The muscle which has just been spoken of does so constantly ; but there are others which do so only occasionally, such as those which run from the chest to the bone of the arm. An asthmatic person may be seen, when the fit is on him, holding by the arms of his chair, to make them fixed points for these muscles to act from upon the chest; and lie holds up his head to.make these muscles of the neck co-operate in inspiration, which are attached to the collar-bone, and to the upper rib. But the principal muscle of inspiration is one which has been spoken of already more than once, as separating the cavities of the chest and the abdomen. It forms an arched floor to the chest, having its edges attached to the ribs and to the breast-bone at the sides and in front, and to the spine behind. It is represented in the figure on the margin by the arched line d, as in a state of rest. It is also seen in the preceding figure arch- ing across. When it con- tracts, it necessarily tends to become straighter, like the dotted line—it there- fore increases the capacity of the chest; the lower parts of the lungs descend with it, while the uppei parts rise with the ribs and breast-bone b, which comes into the position indicated by its corresponding dotted line; and thus the chest is enlarged, both upward, and outward, and downward, at once. As the diaphragm descends, it pushes the con- tents of the belly before it, so that, at the moment when the breath is drawn in, the belly becomes more prominent. At this time the abdominal muscles a, closing the belly in front and at the sides, are relaxed. When the diaphragm and elevators of the ribs cease to act, the chest falls, the abdominal muscles press the bowels up against the hollow of the diaphragm, and push it into the chest; the capacity of the chest is thus lessened in every direction, and the air which had been drawn in is again blown out, or expired. Inspiration and expiration, then, are two different actions which are constantly going on, from the moment of birth to that of dissolution. In different persons, the frequency of respiration varies, in some being as low as 16, and in some as high as 24 in the minute. In the infant it runs as high as 40. 001 the second is also involuntary, and may be called a state of excited respiration. The third is the state of forced inspira- tion, when several muscles, which are not ordinarily muscles of inspiration, become so under the influence of the will. The lungs of a man are estimated to contain about 330 cubic inches of atmospheric air, when filled as full as they can hold, bv drawing in the breath to the utmost. At each act of respiration we draw in and expel about 40 cubic inches, so that when the lungs are at rest, after an ordinary expiration, they contain about 290 cubic inches. Now 40 is very nearly one-eighth of 330, so that about one eighth of the air in the lungs is .renewed at each act of respiration. Besides the 40 cubic inches expelled in ordinary expiration, we can, by an act of the will, blow' out 170 cubic inches in addition, making the whole quantity expired amount to 210 cubic inches. This still leaves 120 cubic inches in the lungs, which therefore never collapse, but always float in W'ater, as men- tioned near the commencement of the chapter. From what has been stated it will at once be known how necessary it is that all houses and rooms should be so built as to contain a sufficient supply of air for the use of the in- mates ; that there should always be some means of renewing the air, as by the current produced by a fire in an open grate; and that, if stoves or heated air-pipes be used for distributing heat, there must be, at the same time, a set of ventilating pipes, otherwise the apartments will speedily be- come unwholesome, and their atmosphere incapable of sup- porting life. If an individual make 20 respirations in a minute, he will consume 800 cubic inches of air in that time, 48,000 in an hour, and in a day of 24 hours, the enormous quantity of 1,152,000 cubic inches. The importance of these calculations, so long neglected, is now- fully admitted ; and in the present day, no architect makes plans for churches, hospitals, or barracks, without calculating the height, width, and cubic contents, with reference to the breathing of the numbers that are to occupy them. Too little attention is paid to this, however, in building our ordinary bed rooms . nearly the whole space in the house is devoted to handsome public rooms, while those in which a third of our time is to be spent, are so small that the air in them is soon exhausted, and in the morning, (as is obvious to any one entering them from the open air,) they are positively unwholesome. An account of the chemistry of respiration will be given at length in the following chapter. The whole ot the air-passages are lined with a delicate mucous membrane, which is kept constantly moist with a thin mucous secretion. After exposure to cold, this secretion be- comes increased in quantity, accumulates in the air-tubes, and excites a desire to spit it up—accomplished by coughing, which is just a short, quick, somewhat convulsive expiration. A feeling of heat is generally experienced all through the lungs from the inflammation of the membrane. This com- plaint generally soon goes off, by the use of warm drinks, it frequently vanes with the degree of rest or activity, and with and attention to clothing. As the inflammation subsides, the ie requency ol the circulation with which it is limited, in an secretion becomes thicker,and is spit up in firmerdark-coloured indissoluble sympathy. When a person is lying quiet in bed, globules. When the inflammation spreads to the substance las a leady been stated that the pulse is four or five beats of the lungs, the case is much more serious ; the patient has slower than when erect, and the respiration is slow in pro- 1 a dull uneasy feeling in the lung, but not a sharp pain as in portion. When again, by exercise, or even by mental emotion, pleurisy, (which we described near the commencement of this nie action ot the heart is quickened ; the breathing becomes article;) he spits up matter tinged with blood, and if the dis- *"c requent, keeping in the ratio of 1 to 4 ; that is to say, ease be not checked, such an impediment is put to the puri- tna during one act of inspiration and expiration, the heart fication of the blood, that death necessarily ensues. This Will contract four times. ,i: • . .i . ... . J contract four times Three different degrees may be observed in respiration : — First, there is the gentle equable motion which goes on w hen we are at rest, or when asleep, when the diaphragm and the small muscles, between the ribs (see plates of muscles) are the agents which are quietly drawing in the air. Secondly, we have an increase of action when the great serrated mus- ; ject, is that which is known by the name of pulmonary con- cics are brought in aid of the intercostals to lift the ribs, as ! — «hen excited by exercise ; and thirdly, we hav Qz-.tr. I • . • 1 . J disease requires the most active treatment—free bleeding, several times repeated, besides the use of internal medicines, and the application of blisters, which, by exciting inflamma- tion of the skin, cause a revulsion which lessens the inflam- mation of the parts within. The most dreadful complaint to which the lungs are sub- —, e the forced acts of inspiration, when, by a strong exertion of the will, we diaw in the air to the utmost, as in asthma, or in prepara- tion for any strong muscular exertion. The first of these is involuntary, and goes on whether we are awake or asleep; sumption. In this disease the upper parts of the lungs be- come filled with little round grayish bodies called tubercles, which soon render these parts impervious to air, and so pro- duce cough, and difficulty of breathing. After having existed in this state for some time they soften, and are spit up through the branches of the w indpipe, leaving excavations of greater