ART, SCIENCE, MECHANICS, AND ENGINEERING. 429 tride, and is by it sent over the system through the aorta. The aorta a is seen to rise first, and make an arch, from which three large branches go off, supplying the two sides of the head and the two arms ; and then it goes down through the belly, giving branches to its contents, and dividing into two termi- nal branches for the lower extremities. We have here, then, two circulations going on at once, the lesser, or pulmonary, and the greater, or systemic. In the real body, the two hearts are joined, so as to form a single organ. The right ventricle lies more in front, and a hollow line passing obliquely from the base towards the apex, separates it from the left. The left ventricle is longer and narrower than the right, and its point forms the apex of the heart. The right auricle is seen at the base of the heart, when in its natural place, while only a small portion of the left, that part which is like a dog’s ear, is visible. Rising from the centre of the base of the heart, is the aorta, or great artery of the system ; on the left side of this is the pulmonary artery, or that for carrying the impure blood to the lungs, and on the right side is the great vein of the head and upper extre- mities. Below, the great vein of the lower part of the body is seen, passing up to enter the right auricle. The pulmonary veins are two on each side, bringing the blood from the two lungs into the left auricle. In examining the interior of the hear', it is most conveni- ent to follow the course of the circulation. If the right auricle be opened, it will present the two orifices of the great veins, and they will be found not to enter opposite to one another, but obliquely, in order that the two currents of blood may not strike one another directly, and so impede one ano- ther from entering. On the partition between it and the left auricle is a hollow, marking the place where before birth there was a direct communication between the two sides of the heart. Each of the great veins is large enough to admit a mans thumb, and the auriculo-vcntricular orificp, or hole leading from the auricle into the ventricle, will easily admit three fingers. The right ventricle is thin in its walls, be- cause it has to force the blood only through the lungs ; in general it is about a quarter of an inch in thickness. There are three valves in the auricular opening, whose edges are fixed to a number of tendinous threads, preventing them from being pushed back into the auricle by the pressure of the blood upon them at the time of the ventricle’s contraction. No drawing can give any idea of these valves, so a figure of them has not been inserted. The orifice of the pulmonary ar- tery is guarded by three valves also, to prevent regurgitation into it while it is dilating, and being filled from the auricle. The left auricle has four openings leading into it, of the four pulmonary veins, two from each lung. The auriculo- ventricular orifice is smaller than that on the right side, ad- mitting only two fingers. The left ventricle is three times thicker and stronger than the right, because it has the much harder duty of propelling the blood all over the body. The vaive between it and the auricle has only two flaps, i similar to those on the right side; and the orifice of the aorta has three, similar to those in the pulmonary artery, but stronger, on account of the greater force which they have to resist. The outside of the heart is covered with a smooth shining membrane, which enables it to glide in a bag in which it is placed, called the Pericardium. This bag is lined with the same membrane which covers the surface of the heart, so that both surfaces being moistened constantly by a watery exhalation, the friction may be lessened almost to nothing. Occasionally the water becomes collected in considerable | quantity, causing dropsy of the pericardium, and sometimes the inside of the bag becomes inflamed, and the two surfaces l grow together,—an unnatural state, which, if it do not pro- I duce death at the time, generally brings on disease of the i heart at an after period, by reason of the impediment which it gives to its motions. The outside of the bag is placed upon the upper surface of the diaphragm, or floor be- tween the chest and belly—its back part is in contact with the spine—its front is touching the breast-bone and ribs, and its top is nearly at the root of the neck. The heart extends from the third to the seventh rib on the left side, and its point is felt beating at two inches below the left nipple, and an inch nearer the breast-bone. It is of importance to have these limits accurately marked out, because they enable us readily to detect any changes produced by disease. If the ear be applied to the chest over the heart, either immediately, or with the intervention of the wooden instru- ment called a stethoscope, certain sounds are heard, produced by the heart in its action. The French denote them by the word tic-tac, which represents them pretty accurately. The first sound is heard at the time when the ventricles contract and strike the ribs; the second, of a sharper and more abrupt character, is heard when they dilate. The medical man re- quires to be well acquainted with the natural sounds of the heart, that he may be able to detect any changes produced by disease. When the valves become ossified, and the open- ings contracted, various curious sounds are heard, resembling the blowing of a pair of bellows, the rasping of a file, the purring of a cat, the cooing of a dove, each of which is now ascertained to indicate a particular form of disease. Besides the disease of the valves of the heart, there may be alterations taking place in the muscular substance. Some- times the cavities of the heart become dilated, or much larger than they should be, and consequently weaker; and sometimes the walls become much thicker and stronger, so that the blood is circulated with unusual force. These condi- tions generally bring on dropsy, and the last often produces apoplexy; and they are usually accompanied by palpitations, which are just irregular beatings of the heart. Palpitation does not, however, always indicate disease affecting the structure of the heart, but is frequently nervous, depending on weakness from loss of blood, or other causes, or on dis- order of the stomach, or even on mental emotion. We often hear a broken heart spoken of; yet, though common enough in a figurative sense, it is in reality a very rare occurrence. The author has, however, in his museum, the heart of an elderly man, which affords a real specimen of this accident. The heart was much dilated, and one night the patient died suddenly. On examination, the left ventricle of the heart was found burst; the hole admitted a large quill, and the pericardium was found completely filled with the blood which had escaped. The heart is generally about the size of the fist of the owner; at least that is an approximation which enables us to judge of it, on opening a body, whether it be natural, enlarged, or the reverse. GEOLOGY. CHAPTER XI. SILURIAN SYSTEM. Geologt had made considerable progress, and names had been assigned to the various systems of stratification, before the Silu- rian rocks* were brought into that notice which their great im- portance demands. The primary schists were followed in the geo- logical nomenclature by the transition or the greywacke rocks- - strata in which organic forms were considered as developing their earliest existence. We owe it, however, to the united la- bours of Professor Sedgwick and Mr Murchison to have rescued these rocks from comparative oblivion, and to have placed them in that prominent position which the phenomena they present entitle them to hold. In our last article, we described the nature of the Cambrian or slate rocks, and noticed what may be termed the first intro- duction of animal existence into our planet. The want of organic remains in the Scottish schists and greywackes was alluded to, • It may he observed, that the most eminent of our systematic geologists have lately proposed to subdivide the English sedimentary strata below the old red sandstone, into two leading groups, the lower of which is the Cam- brian, already described, and the upper or newer group, to which Mr. Mur- chison has applied the name of Silurian, because these rocks are most fully developed in that part of England and Wales which was included in the ancient kingdom of the Silures.