96 THE IMPERIAL JOURNAL OF were invariably found to become first curdled by the fluid, and then dissolved. The periods required for the solution of various substances in the gastric juice, out of the body, varied as follows:—Sago and tapioca, boiled, were completely dissolved in about three hours and a quarter ; fresh bread, in about four hours and a half; milk, in about the same time as bread; calf’s-foot jelly, in about four hours and three-quarters ; soft-boiled eggs in six hours and a half; hard-boiled, in two hours longer; oys- ters, raw and entire, seven hours and a half; stewed, eight hours and a half; beef-steak, in eight hours; boiled beef, in nine hours and a half; boiled mutton and raw pork, in eight hours and a half; beef suet, boiled, in twelve hours; mutton suet, boiled, in ten hours; cream, in twenty-five hours and a half; olive oil, in sixty hours. In these experiments the gastric juice employed was about eight times the quantity of the substance to be dissolved. It will be seen from these experiments, that fat and oily food was among the articles which presented the greatest resistance to the solvent powers of the gastric fluid; and Dr Beaumont found this to be the case in the stomach as well as out of it. Some of his experi- ments indicate that the digestibility of this sort of food is facilitated by a slight admixture of bile with the gastric juice, and that very generally, when aliment containing fat is eaten, bile passes up into the cavity of the stomach. The following are the conclusions which Dr Beaumont has deduced from his experiments on his patient:— “ The ordinary time required for the complete digestion of the food received into the stomach, in a healthy state of that organ, is generally three hours and a half. The facility of digestion is modified, however, by many circumstances, as the peculiar nature of individuals, their habits, the nature of the food, and the manner in which it is prepared: minute- ness of division, and tenderness of fibre, would appear to be the two great essentials for the speedy and easy digestion of the aliment. “ Albumen (white of eggs,) if swallowed either rawr, or very slightly coagulated, is, perhaps, as rapidly digested as any article of diet we possess. If perfectly hardened by heat, and swallowed in large solid pieces, it experiences a very pro- tracted digestion. Fibrin (red muscular flesh,) and jelly are affected in the same way ; if tender and finely divided, they are disposed of readily ; if in large solid masses, digestion is proportionably retarded.” Animal fat is invariably and very quickly rendered fluid by the heat of the stomach, and, with any species of oily food, resists for a long time the action of the digestive organ and its fluids. It has already been noticed above, that this sort of food generally requires an admixture of bile (which is alkaline,) to render it soluble. “ Bulk is, perhaps, nearly as necessary to the articles of diet as the nutrient principle. They should be so managed that the one of these qualities should be in proportion to the other. Too highly nutritive diet is probably as fatal to the prolongation of life and health, as that which contains an insufficient quantity of nourishment.” A commencing state of putrefaction, sufficient to render the muscular fibre slightly tender, was found to increase the digestibility of most kinds of flesh. This is a practice which every housekeeper in this country adheres to, though without knowing the principle on which it is founded. Vegetable aliment, generally speaking, he discovered to be slower and more difficult of digestion than animal. Its solu- tion in the stomach is greatly influenced, however, by divi- sion and tenderness of fibre. Raw vegetables often pass through the stomach in an undigested state, while other food is retained and fully digested. Here is a hint for the eaters of salads. The thorough mastication of the food is essential to healthy digestion. “ If aliment,” remarks the author, “ in large masses be introduced into the stomach, though the gastric juice may act upon its surface, digestion will proceed so slowly, that putrefactive changes will be likely to commence in its substance before it will become completely dissolved. Besides, the stomach will not retain undigested masses for a long time, without suffering great disturbance.” Conse- quently, eating too fast impedes digestion, by introducing food into the stomach in a state unprepared for the actions of that organ and of its fluids. Also, if food be swallowed too rapidly, more will in general be taken into the stomach before the sense of hunger is allayed, than can afterwards be di- gested with ease. Overloading the stomach with food, is invariably found to interfere with the regular process of digestion ; a portion re- maining for a long while undigested. This may soon become rancid, or sour, running into the acetous fermentation ; and if not rejected by vomiting, causes pain and irritation of the stomach, and other distressing symptoms ; or if it be permit- ted to pass into the intestines, its presence almost invariably gives rise to colic, flatulence, or even more dangerous affec- tions. Condiments, as spices, though they may at first excite the action of a debilitated stomach, yet, when used habitually, never fail to produce debility of that organ, and in this man- ner impede digestion. Salt and vinegar, are exceptions, and are not obnoxious to this charge when used in moderation. They both assist digestion—vinegar, by rendering muscular substance more tender—and both, by producing a fluid hav- ing some analogy to the gastric juice. Spirituous, and pro- bably all artificial drinks, impede more or less the digestive process ; some more so than others, but none can claim ex- emption from the general charge. Even tea and coffee, the common beverages of all classes of people, have a tendency to debilitate the digestive organs. After a full meal, rest should be taken for at least an hour. After that, moderate exercise rather aids digestion, but severe and fatiguing exertion always impedes its performance. An experiment was made by a medical man on a couple of dogs, of the same litter, and in equal health. After giving them a good dinner of flesh, one was taken out and hunted for four hours, while the other was permitted to lie down and sleep. They were then both killed; the hunted dog had the meat in his stomach quite undigested; the idle one had it quite gone. The lesson is a most instructive one. BOTANY. CHAPTER IV. THE STEM. It was explained in Chapter III., that the root of a plant passes downward from what is called the crown, or neck, or life-knot, where the root and stem meet, and which seems to belong indifferently to either. We have now to observe that the stein or trunk, or ascending axis, arises from this knot, and invariably makes its way at first more or less upward, whatever may become its subsequent direction. It passes upward from the root, getting smaller as it ascends, and so putting on the form of a cone. It gives support to the leaves, flowers, and fruit, and transmits to them the nourishing juices absorbed from the earth. These juices, it is most probable, undergo some chemical change, while passing up through the vessels of the stem. With regard to their structure and arrangement, stems are simple, (40), as those of the white lily among flowers, and the palms among trees ; or branched, as in most trees and shrubs ; they may be hollow, as in the grasses and umbellfera, but more generally they are solid. With regard to their direction, the stems of most plants rise from the ground, (it has been already said that they all rise from the root,) bearing the branches and leaves, the flowers and fruit. Most of these are able to support their own weight, and are simply described as ascending; some creep along the ground, as the Ground Ivy ; indeed the creeping root, (28, Chap. III.) is more properly a creeping stem; some seem to fall on the ground, and are decumbent or pro- cumbent; others have the wish to rise, but cannot support