ART, SCIENCE, MECHANICS, AND ENGINEERING. G7 a mistake to suppose that the new teeth push out the old; the fact is, that they cannot get up until the old ones be removed. Preparatory to the removal of the old ones, their fangs become absorbed, so that the}’ are not a quarter of an inch in length; whereas, had they been examined some months sooner, they would have been found three times as long. Some time between the completion of the seventh and eighth year, the second dentition commences. The first permanent grinders appear, and the central incisors fall out and are replaced. In three months more, the lateral incisors follow. In from six to twelve months more, the grinders give way, and after them the eye-teeth. The grinders are succeeded by a new species of teeth, which do not exist in the milk set, called the small grinders. These changes take place about the tenth or eleventh year, and it is not for two or three years more that the second of the permanent grinders makes its appearance. A long interval now succeeds, and the jaw acquires its full proportion, and about the ninteenth or twentieth year the wisdom-tooth cuts the gum, but some- times not till even a later period. The author has met two instances of persons getting their wisdom-teeth at the age of thirty, and in one of these they were quite decayed before they had actually become visible. The grinders often give a good deal of pain in coming through, on account of their broad surfaces meeting with much resistance, and much re- lief is obtained by having the gum freely scarified. MATHEMATICS. CHAPTER XIII. RULE OF THREE. Definition I.—When two magnitudes are compared with each other by finding the number of times that the one is contained in the other, that is, by dividing one of them by the other, the resulting quotient is called their ratio. Thus 3 is the ratio of 12 to 4, since 3 is the quotient of 12 divided by 4, and which is usually indicated by writing 12 : 4. It is manifestly indifferent, however, in this mode of comparison, whether we say that the first of the numbers (12) is triple of the second (4) or- that the latter is a third of the former ; hence we might, with equal cor- rectness, call ^ the ratio of 12 to 4. In this we only suppose the order of division or comparison to be changed, and instead of considering 12 : 4, we take the quantity in the order 4 : 12, supposing that we make it a general rule to divide the first of the numbers enunciated by the second. Definition II.—When the ratio of two numbers is the same with that of two others, these four quantities form a proportion, which results from the equality of two ratios. Thus, the ratio of 15 to 5, and of 18 to 6 is 3; and, accordingly, these num- bers constitute a proportion which we write as follows: — 15 : 5 : : 18 : 6, or y = V9- We commonly make use of the first of these forms of expres- sion, although the last is in some respects the most convenient. The meaning given by both forms of the notation is, that the quotient of 15 divided by 5, is equal to the quotient of 18 divided by 6, that is, the ratio of 15 to 5, is equal to the ratio of 18 to 6. But the formula of enunciation is this :—as 15 is to 5, so is 18 to 6; or, more shortly, 15 is to 5 as 18 is to 6. All these forms of expression are equivalent. The four numbers being proportioned in the order written, the terms 15 and 6 arc called the extremes, and 5 and 18 the means of the proportion ; and since y = y, it follows from the nature of fractions, that 15X6 = 5X18; that is, the product of the extremes is equal to the product of the means. It is also obvious, from the same principle, that we may multiply or divide the pairs of terms 15 and 5, and 18 and 6 by any numbers, without destroying the equality of their ratios. Thus, multiply- ing the first pair by 2, and dividing the second pair by 3, we ob- tain the proportion 30 : 10 : : 6 : 2, the common ratio of which is 3 as before. The product of the extremes is likewise still equal to the product of the means, and this condition being main- tained, the proportion is not destroyed. From this condition of equality of the products of the ex- tremes and means, it immediately follows that the fourth term of the proportion must be equal to the quotient resulting from the division of the product of the means divided by the first term. Thus, tailing the last proportion stated, the product of the means is 10 X 6, or 60, and the quotient of 60 by 30 the first term, is 2 the last term. From this, it follows that, if the last term of a proportion be wanting, it may be found by a process of multi- plication and division ; and this process, simple as it is, consti- tutes the extensive rule in commercial arithmetic, popularly de- nominated the Rule of Three, because in it three quantities are given, and a fourth is required to be found. As an illustration let us take the following question :— An engineer having finished 100 yards of work in a certain number of days, with 5 men, how many yards may he finish of a like quality of work in the same time with 8 men ? Here, it must be observed, that there are two quantities of the same sort, namely, 5 men and 8 men; and a third of another sort, namely, 100 yards, but the answer required by the question is of the same nature as this last, namely, yards. Let therefore this number of yards be in the meantime denoted by ar. Then, in order that these four terms may constitute a proportion, the ratios of the pairs must be equal to each other,—that is, men. men. yards, yards 5:8:: 100 : *. But, - regarding the numbers expressing these quantities as abstract, then the value of x is found, as explained above, by dividing the product of the two means by the first term,—that is, The quantity x is therefore equal to 160 yards, the fourth term of the proportion, which will now stand as follows :—• men. men. yards. yards 5 : 8 : : 100 : 160, and the proof that this proportion is correct is, that the product of the extremes is equal to the product of the means. From this we may infer that the sole difficulty of solving questions by this rule consists in placing the numbers contained in the question in their proper order in the proportion ; and this depends upon a correct interpretation of the conditions stated. The process of reasoning is, however, very simple. In the first place, we ascertain, from the nature of the question, whether the solution depends upon a proportion ; and this is the case when it has two terms of the same kind, which may be either multiplied or divided by the same number, without making any change in the nature of the problem ;* and a third quantity, which is of the same kind as the answer sought. We next consider whether the answer ought to be a greater or less quantity than the odd term ; that is, whether the unknown term, which is to be found, ought to be greater or less than that of the same sort which is given ; and from this we determine which of the two given terms of the same kind ought to be placed first in the proportion—the least being placed first, as the divisor, when the answer ought to be greater than its corresponding term ; and vice versa. Thus, in the preceding question, having set down 100 yards : x yards, we see that 8 men must, of course, do more work than 5 men ; consequently, x must be greater than 100 ; and hence, of the two numbers, 8 and 5, the last must be placed first, as above. The following two questions will serve further to illustrate this:— A piece of work can be done in 5 days by 57 men : in how many days ought the same to be completed by 19 men ? This is manifestly a question of proportion ; since we might take two or three times as many days, and as many times fewer workmen, * It may happen that a problem has two terms of the same nature, or, as mathematicians express it, two homogeneous terms ; and yet not admit of multiplication or division by the same number, without changing the conditions of the question. Thus, the time of a stone’s falling to the ground is not doubled when the height is doubled; and a vessel of water is not three times longer in emptying itself when its capacity is triple. Elements of that nature, although homogeneous, cannot therefore enter as terms of a rule-of-three question.