THE IMPERIAL JOURNAL OF 298 exactly equal and opposite to the line o s, showing that the compon- ents w1, wa,act- ing along their cords, on the point o, being expressed by the sides of a paral- lelogram, its dia- gonal will ex- press their re- sultant, since it is equal and op- posite to the force o s, exerted by the weight w3, on the point o, and which keeps the other two in equi- librium. We may construct the parallelogram on either of the other two pairs, . , w1 and w3, or w2 and w3, and we shall find that the remaining third force in each case will balance the resultant found. Hence, in general, any one of three forces in equilibrium, and acting on a point, will be' expressed by a line equal and opposite to the diagonal of the parallelogram formed by the other two. 14. Another mode of making the experiment on three equili brating forces, is to suspend over pulleys set at the edge of a round table, the three weights, w1, ws, w3, by their cords, to different points in the surface of a plane board, as f, d, e ; this „ , \V4 board lying exactly horizontal upon three balls between it and the table, so as to be readily susceptible of motion, and also to counteract its gravity, which, if not neutralized, wouldinterferc as a fourth force with the equilibrium of the three. When the whole has come to rest, we shall observe that the direction of the cords, produced if necessary, have one common point oi intersection, a, which corresponds to the same point, in the previ- ous experiment. If now we measure as many inches ok, »■,», alon" the cords as there are pounds in the weights they sustain respectively, and complete the parallelogram, o i l h, the diagonal o L is equal and opposite to o k, the third force in the system , that is, it is in the same straight line with o k, and contains as many inches as are in it. . , Now these experiments give results quite general, as re aids the equilibrium of the forces acting in one plane; for, though we have experimented with gravitating force only, yet, as before noted (3), the abstract pressure is essentially of the same nature, whatever be its source. ... c 15 We have in this experiment touched en the doctrine of the superposition of farces. It is this: If a body be kept in equili- bdum by any system of forces, and if to this be superadded another system of forces which would of themselves have kept it in equilibrium, then the resulting condition of the foices will s . be equilibrium. For each system acts independently of the other, since what is called equilibrium of forces is the whole expendi- ture of their action among and against themselves—so that the two systems cannot interfere with each other, which is proved by experiment. In like manner, if from among a system of forces in equilibrium be abstracted a subordinate system of equilibrating forces, the remaining forces of the system must be in equilibrium. In the above experiment, we have the weight of the board itself, and the equal sum of the reactions of the balls as one system of equilibrating forces, and w.H w2, w3, are the other equilibrating 16. Hitherto we have represented forces by the lines in which they act, expressing the three circumstances of direction, magni- tude, and point of application. But it will often be preferable for purposes of reasoning to consider them represented by lines parallel to their direction and proportional to their magnitudes. Referring to the figure Art. 12, since c d is equal and parallel to a b and d a is equal to and in the same line with the equili- brating force, the triangle a c d will represent by its sides Ac, c d d a, taken in order, the directions and magnitudes of the three forces. This may properly be called the triangle of forces. On the other hand, if the three sides of any triangle be taken to represent in magnitude and parallel direction, three forces acting on a point, they will be in equilibrium. For let three forces be represented in magnitude and direction by a c, c d, d a, acting on the point a, then the force represented by c d, is also repre- sented bv a b. Now a b and a c are equivalent to a d, that is, their effect is equal and opposite to that of d a, the remaining side of the triangle a c d, which will induce equilibrium. There- fore, if three forces acting on a point be represented in magni- tude and direction by the three sides of a triangle taken in order, thev will be in equilibrium. . . . The effects of forces are the same (10) at whatever points in their directions they be applied, so that the mutual intersection in one point of the directions of three forces is always necessary to their equilibrium, as was proved also by experiments (13) and (14), and it is easy to see that were they irreducible to one point of action, they would not be opposed, and therefore could not equilibrate. The triangulation of the three forces in the expe- riment (14), may be done thus: draw a line o n equal and parallel to g k, and towards the same part. Similarly draw n m equal and parallel to o i and m o will be found equal and parallel to o n. This suggests a mode of determining beforehand whether three . ' ven fortes are capable of equilibrium. For if by the foregomg process we succeed in triangulating them, we are certain ot then capability of equilibrium about a point, and we are equally cer- tain that in foiling to do so, they are incapable of it. In hke manner, when we have the directions of three forces in equ brium we may find their relative magnitudes by triangulation , for the sides of the triangle will be proportional to the forces. Lastly, having their magnitudes, we may by constructing a tri- angle of which the sides are equal to the forces taken m ordei, ascertain their relative directions. . 17 AVe have next to investigate the conditions of equilibrium of more than three forces acting on a point, and in one plane. Now, in estimating the whole statical effect of the f°ices- *e may substitute for any two of them their resultant. In like man- ner we mav find a second resultant of this first one and a thud force, and so on, combining them gradually into the ^ho\e eilec of the system of forces. This is just a continued Processeftian- gulation, and we shall proceed to its application in the follow ing examp1^:- ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ p5 ^ force3 acting on a point a. Now it matters not to the inquiry in what order we combine the forces; but we shall, for simpli- city’s sake, take them in their order of succes- sion round the point a. The two forces ap1, a p2, being com- pleted into a pa- rallelogram by drawing p2 b, p1 b parallel to them, the dia-