THE IMPERIAL JOURNAL OF 80 Inflammation of the burste, (or mucous bags,) is a false white- swelling, or dropsy of the joint, which, though discharged by re- peated punctures, yet in a few hours renews, and requires again to be punctured and discharged. When this species of dropsy in the mucous capsule of a joint happens in a scrofulous indivi- dual, it constitutes a time whiteswelling. This disease begins with inflammation of the joint, attended by pain, stiffness, and loss of power. These are followed by profuse suppuration, de- struction of the cartilages, and spontaneous opening of the joint. Sometimes the disease spontaneously stops, by an effusion of calcareous matter, callus, and concretion of the bones, forming a stiff joint; but more frequently it produces hectic fever and noc- turnal sweats, with extreme debility ; and the emaciated patient, exhausted with fever, agony, and suffering, and reduced to a skele- ton by morbid discharges and colliquative diarrhoea, dies without a struggle. In our next we shall proceed to describe the muscles of the head and neck. GEOLOGY. CHAPTER III. DESCRIPTION OP THE ELEMENTARY SUBSTANCES WHICII ENTER INTO THE COMPOSITION OP THE EARTH, AND TIIEIR MORE IMMEDIATE COMPOUNDS. Material bodies are either simple or compound; that is, they are composed of one ingredient, or more, which no process of analyza- tion has hitherto been able to decompose. Few of the elemen- tary exist as such, in the natural state. Mineral bodies, whether earthy, alkaline, or metallic, generally exist in combination with oxygen, or some other substance or substances. It is the pro- vince of chemistry to separate and recompound natural sub- stances. The mineralogist applies himself to an investigation of their mechanical proporties, as, to form, colour, hardness, opacity, transmission of light, <fcc. The geologist, on the other hand, considers their nature, in order to determine their origin ; he discourses also of their modes of occurrence and distribution. In giving an account of these, we shall save the reader as much as possible, from all dry unnecessary detail. It is not essential to the study of geology, that the student should be a profound chemist, or mineralogist; but without knowing the general properties and constituents of mineral bodies, he will make little progress in the science: when a small cabinet there- fore can be obtained, or where students have the use of a museum, we recommend attention to the form and nature of the principal minerals and rocks, as being, with the aid of books, the best means of enabling him to converse with nature as a geologist, and with the philosopher, “ Exempt from public haunts, Find tongues in trees, books in the runniivt brooks, Sermons in stones, and good in everything.’1 List of elementary substances found in Nature. 1. Elements existing under ordinary pressure and tempera- ture as gases : oxygen, hydrogen, chlorine, fluorine, nitrogen, or azote. 2. Non-metallic liquids and elements; viz., sulphur, phosphorus, selenium, iodine, bromine, boron, carbon. 3. Metalloid bodies which unite with oxygen, to form the earths and alkalies ; viz., sodium, potassium, lithium, aluminum, silicum, yttrium, glucinum, thorinum, calcium, magnesium, titanium, strontium, barium. 4. Metals : manganese, zinc, iron, tin, and cadmium, which decompose water at a red heat; and arsenic, antimony, copper, molybdenum,uranium, tellurium, chromium, cerium, nickel, vana- dium, cobalt, lead, tungsten, mercury, columbium, bismuth, osmium, silver, palladium, rhodium, platinum, gold, iridium, which do not decompose water.—Phillips. I. Gaseous Substances. Oxygen—so called from its property of forming acids—is one of the most important, and most widely diffused substances in nature. It enters into combination with metallic, and non- metallic bodies, so largely, that it has been computed, that one half of the ponderable matter of the globe is composed of it. Oxygen constitutes about 5\jth per cent, of the volume of the atmosphere; it forms a third part; by measure of the gases com- posing pure water, and is locked up to an immense amount in the various rocks, which in fact are little else than a mass of oxidized substances. Plants give out oxygen, and animals absorb it. It has neither taste nor smell, and is a little heavier than the atmospheric air. The following table shows the per centage of oxygen in the earth’s minerals and metals, which enter most abundantly into the composition of the crust of the earth :— Silica = 48'4 silicum -j- 51'6 oxygen. Alumina = 53'2 aluminum -f- 46'8 oxygen. Magnesia = 6P4 magnesium —|— 38'6 oxygen. Lime = 72 calcium -f- 28 oxygen. Quartz = 48'4 metallic base -j- 46 oxygen. Felspar = 54 metallic base -j- 44 oxygen. Mica — 56 metallic base -|-46 oxygen. Granite = 52 metallic base -J- 48 oxygen. Basalt = 57 metallic base -j- 43 oxygen. Gneiss = 53 metallic base -f- 47 oxygen. Clay slate = 54 metallic base -j- 46 oxygen. Sandstone = from 49 to 53 metallic base -j- 47 to 51 oxygen. Limestone = 52 metallic base -j- 48 oxygen.* Hydrogen is the lightest of all known substances, being about thirteen times lighter than the atmosphere. It is combustible, and burns when pure with a yellowish white flame; it is one of the ingredients of water, of which it forms two volumes, and oxygen one. As far as the superficies of our planet is concerned, hydrogen might be supposed to constitute a substance of more relative importance than it really does, in the constitution of the globe. Its occurrence, however, in such large quantities in water, and water in a consolidated state forming no mean ingre- dient in the general mass of rocky matter, entitles hydrogen to be considered as next in importance to oxygen. It exists in considerable quantities in coal, and is evolved in a compound state from volcanoes and fissures (1) in coal strata. Chlorine, frequently obtained from the decomposition of muri- atic acid, or the spirit of salt, is largely dispersed throughout nature, but always in a state of combination, in sea-water, rock-salt; or that which is procured from brine springs, in which it is united with the metal sodium. Fluorine enters into the composition of some minerals which form constituent portions of great masses of rocks. Fluoric acid is found in mica and hornblende, two minerals of very great im- portance, as the component parts of many rocks. From fifteen different analyzations, it has been found that Mica gives, .... POO percent, of Fluoric acid. Hornblende, .... 1'05 do. do. Gneiss with Mica, . . 0-36 do. do. Mica slate, 054 do. do. Hornblende rock and Greenstone, 0-75 do. do. Granite with Mica, 0-18 do. do. Sienite, .... 0-65 do. do. Fluor-spar, .... 3225 do. do. Nitrogen constitutes about 80 per cent, of common air. Dr Thomson found it to constitute 15'96 per cent, of the Newcastle caking coal, and it probably exists in rocks which contain the remains of animals. Nitrogen is found abundantly in the waters of some mineral springs. The king’s bath, at Bath, evolves 96'5 per cent, of nitrogen, 3'5 of oxygen, and some carbonic acid. The hot well at Bristol evolves 92 per cent, of nitrogen, and 8 of oxygen. The springs at Buxton, Bakewell, and Stony Middle- town, Derbyshire, evolve nitrogen only. The specific gravity of nitrogen is, 0'9722. From the statements given, it is evident that no inconsiderable portion of the mass of the earth consists of substances, which when disengaged and set free, exist at ordinary temperatures in * See De La Beche on the chemical composition of rocks in his Geologi- I cal Manual.