488 the imperial journal op The aorta, or great artery of the system, has been de- scribed as arising from the left ventricle of the heart. It passes first upward, then forms an arch across to the left, and passes down along the left side of the spine through the chest, behind the heart. Just where it has been cut off from the heart, three valves are placed which are seen closed at a. Their action in preventing the blood from getting back into the ventricle at the moment when it is diluting, and the aorta contracting by its elas- ticity, has been already adverted to in chap, xiii., at page 428. In this course, it first gives off two small branches for the nour- ishment of the heart itself; and then gene- rally gives off three great branches to the head and arms. The first of these is the largest, about the thickness of one’s little finger, and divides into the artery of the right arm, and the ar- tery of the right side of the head. The second branch is for the left side of the head, and the third goes to the left arm. The concavity of the arch sends off two or three small branches for the nourishment of the lungs ; and the descending aorta gives off from its sides a series of small arteries to run below each rib, and nourish the muscles by which the ribs are connected, and from its front, three or four of like size, to nourish the gullet, which lies just beside them. On arriving in the belly, by passing through the diaphragm, the aorta gives branches to nourish that muscle ; and then a very large branch which divides into three, to supply the liver, the stomach, and the spleen, called respectively the hepatic h, the gastric g, and the splenic sp, arteries. Next, a large branch runs down through the belly supplying the intestines, the superior mesenteric sm, then a large one on each side to the two kidneys k, and lastly, a smaller one to the lower part of the great gut, the inferior mesenteric im. Upon the fourth lumbar vertebra, the aorta now divides into its two terminal branches, the iliacs i, for the two lower extremities, giving off at the same time an artery not larger than a crow quill, which runs down the tniddle of the rump-bone, and corresponds to the artery of the tail in beasts. The artery going to the arm, the subclavian, s, passes up through the upper orifice of the chest, turns over the first rib, and runs down through the arm-pit. It. gives off a large artery to the brain, which runs protected in a curious way through the vertebrte of the neck ; and afterwards several branches to the inside of the chest, the root of the neck, and the top of the shoulder. In the arm-pit it gives off branches to the back of the shoulder, and some long ones which run down the side of the chest, supplying, in the female, the breast. The artery of the arm then runs down in a hollow which is seen in the plates illustrating the muscles, between the biceps muscle on the forepart of the arm, and the triceps, which is seen appearing from behind. We find all the arteries of the limbs running in this way, in hollows between muscles, where they are protected from pressure, and as much as possible out of the way of injury. In this course the artery gives branches which nourish the fleshy part of the arm. In the hollow in front of the elbow-joint, the artery divides into two branches, the radial and ulnar, running down the fore-arm on their respective sides. The ulnar, besides, gives off a considerable branch which runs down in the middle, for the supply of the deep muscles. It is the radial artery in which it is the practice to feel the pulse, not on account of anything peculiar in the arterv, but because it is most conveniently got at. The Chinese have an idea that every different pulse in the body has a different meaning, giving warning of the affection of some particular organ. After what has been said already, it need scarcely be remarked that this is a fallacy, because the pulse must be the same in every artery, as in all it is produced by the stroke of the heart; and all that we can learn from it, is the state of the circulation, whether quick or slow, hur- ried or languid, regular or irregular, with some minute shades of difference, which, however, give valuable informa- tion to the practiseil finger. On reaching the hand, the ulna is seen passing in front of the wrist; and, arching to the space between the thumb and forefinger, gives off from the convexity of this arch four digi- tal branches. One of these belongs to the inner side of the little finger, and each of the others goes to the division be- tween the fingers, and sends branches along the opposite edges of each, the artery of the one edge communicating freely at the point with the artery of the other edge. The radial artery at the wrist gives off a small superficial branch, which supplies the ball of the thumb, and often communicates with the superficial arch. It then passes out of sight, winding round the rootofthe thumb, going between the thumb and forefinger, supplying the thumb, the outer side of the forefinger, the deep part of the palm, and communicating with the termina- tion of the palmar arch. These are the arteries which are apt to suffer from knives being stuck into the hand, and though not very large, they bleed very profusely. The radial and ulnar arteries, near the wrist, where they lie superficial, not unfrequently suffer from such an accident as a servant’s breaking a pane of glass while cleaning the window ; they cannot be stopped by bandages, and must be secured by a surgeon, with a ligature. The carotid artery c runs up the side of the neck more than a quarter of an inch in diameter, and just below the angle of the jaw divides into two nearly equal branches, the one going into the inside of the head to supply the brain i, and the other being distributed over the outside of the head and face e. One branch runs down the forepart of the neck; a second goes into the tongue; a third runs up the face, and encircles half the mouth, meeting with similar branches from the opposite side, which complete the circle in the lips, where it may be felt beating on the inside, by catching the lip between the finger and the thumb. A fourth branch passes to the back of the neck; a fifth to the back of the head; and a sixth to the outer ear. The terminating branches are, one to the throat; one to the deep parts of the face; and one to the temples, where it is felt beating. This last is the only artery which it is permitted to open for the purpose of drawing blood; because it can easily be stopped, by compressing it against the bone on which it lies. It is opened chiefly for | affections of the head, as in apoplexy, or in fever. A gentle-1) man, formerly well known in Glasgow, was seized with a fit of apoplexy while standing at a window, against which he fell; the glass cut the temporal artery, and so much blood was lost from it before the surgeon arrived, as to have brought him round.