t ART, SCIENCE, MECHANICS, AND ENGINEERING. 293 \ When we continue to observe a barometer in the same place, everybody knows that it does not remain stationary ; but rises and falls. These changes are connected with the winds ; aceord- ingly>, in the torrid zone where the winds are pretty regular, the rise and fall are trifling, amounting only to a few tenths of an inch. At Madras, for example, (north'latitude 13° 4' 8".513), the variation is only 9'6 inches, and the greatest annual range ever observed in that place, was 0'664 inches, and the smallest 0'462 inches. As we advance northward or southward from the equator, the range increases. In Glasgow, it amounts to 2 95 inches, and at St Petersburgh, it exceeds 3 inches. It has been observed, that there are two periods of every day when the barometer is highest, and two corresponding periods in which it is lowest. These maximums and minimums are observed in all parts of the earth, nearly at the same time of the day, showing that they originate in tides of the atmosphere, occasioned by the action of the sun. The barometer is highest of all be- tween nine and ten in the morning. It has another smaller maximum between ten and eleven at night. Its lowest points are between four and five in the evening, and four and five in the morning. These oscillations extend from the equator to latitude 64° 8', beyond which point they have not yet been looked for : but they diminish in amount as the jatitude increases. The mean temperature of the air at the level of the sea is highest at the equator, and gradually sinks as we advance to- ward the poles. The mean temperature at the equator is 81°-5 • in Antigua, 78T1 ; in latitude 45°, it is 50°. In Paris, (lat. 48° 49') the mean temperature is 51°-48 ; in London, it is 50° or 51° ; in Plymouth, 52°-08 ; in Glasgow 470'75 ; in Edinburgh 47° 7! In Geneva, about 1640 feet above the level of the sea, and in latitude 46°20', tho mean temperature is 49°'55. In Victoria harbour, N. lat. 70°, it is 0°'82. The temperature at half-past nine in the morning is nearly the mean of the day. The range of the thermometer increases with the latitude, and with the height above the sea At Poona it is . 53°-4orfrom40°-5 to 93°-9. Paris, . . . 76-2 . . 23'4 to 99 6. Berne, . . 119-25 . .—24 to 95 25. St Petersburgh, 127 1 . .—35‘7 to 9P4. Victoria harbour, ) , „„ lat. 70° | 130 ... 60 to 70. But in Great Britain this rule does not hold,—our heat and cold being both checked by the proximity of the sea. The greatest range of the thermometer in London is 93° namely from 0° to 93° Glasgow is 84 ... / o to 84. The atmosphere consists essentially of two distinct gaseous bodies, namely oxygen and azote. But besides these, it always contains a sensible quantity of carbonic acid gas ; nor is it ever free, (at least in Europe,) from the vapour of water mixed with it in the gaseous state. Doubtless it contains also minute quantities of every gaseous body and of every vapour which is thrown into it from the surface of the earth, though (except in particular circumstances,) the amount of all of them besides the four first mentioned, is too small to be appreciable by our methods of investigation. 100 volumes of atmospheric air (supposing it freed from car- bonic acid and moisture,) consist of 80 volumes of azotic, and 20 volumes of oxygen gases. These proportions, being constant on every part of the surface of the earth, have led to the notion that the oxygen and azote in the atmosphere are in a state of combination, and not merely mixed; but this by no means follows, l or the supply of atmospherical air is so vast, that if we were to suppose a thousand millions of animals constantly breathing it for six thousand years, and converting oxygen into carbonic acid gas, and if we were to double this consumption of oxygen, for the hres that are continually burning in all parts of the earth, it would not make an appreciable alteration in the ratio of oxvo-en to azote. / ° 1. Oxygen is a gaseous body which is invisible and destitute . colour, taste, and smell. Its specific gravity is 11111, that of m-sa.'n8 1'- 0no hundl’cd cubic inches of it at 32° weigh 16-4380 grains. It is essential to the existence of all animals, >e.1®? WK°l^e^- *unSs’ an^ Partly converted into carbonic uu , hen animals are made to breathe a determinate quantity >1 common air, the oxygen gas in it is gradually diminished, and converted into carbonic acid ; and when this change has pro- ceeded a certain length, the animal dies of suffocation. The same thing happens when the animal is made to breathe oxygen gas instead of air. But in oxygen gas, he lives nearly twenty times as long as in the same bulk of atmospherical air. The oxygen of the air also supports combustion. The com- mon combustibles are chiefly compounds, carbon and hydrogen. During combustion, they combine with the oxygen of the atmos- phere, and are converted into carbonic acid and water. Thus, com- bustion and the breathing of animals constantly diminish the oxygen of the air, and in process of time would no doubt absorb the whole, were it not that new oxygen is constantly thrown into the atmosphere by the vegetation of plants. Thus, the functions of animals and vegetables counteract each other. Animals are constantly diminishing the oxygen, and increasing the quantity of carbonic acid in the atmosphere. Plants, on the other hand, are constantly absorbing the carbonic acid thus formed, decomposing it, retaining the carbon and giving out the oxygen. These two opposite processes no doubt counterbalance each other, and thus the oxygen of the air does not diminish, nor the carbonic acid increase. 2. The azotic or nitrogen gas constitutes four-fifths of atmos- pheric air. Like oxygen it is colourless, invisible, and destitute of taste and smell. Its specific gravity is 0-9722, that of air being 1. One hundred cubic inches of it at 32° weigh 3P8790 grains. It is not sensibly absorbed by animals nor by plants, nor does it support combustion. No animal can breathe it with- out suffocation ; but it qualifies the stimulating property of oxygen gas. When an animal breathes oxygen gas, the heat is increased, and the circulation accelerated, and a feverish state comes on, which speedily destroys the animal. The admixture of azote prevents these injurious effects, and preserves the animal in a state of health. Azote constitutes a part of the system both of animals and vegetables. In animals the azote which they contain is derived from the food which they eat. It is not so easy to see the ori- gin of it in vegetables. But there can be no doubt that the azote of the atmosphere is employed in the formation of nitric acid,* and that this nitric acid, after it has been generated, is in various processes converted into ammonia.f It is probably from one or other of these two sources, that the vegetables derive the azote which they contain. These, in their turn, supply animals with that necessary article; and doubtless, during the putrefaction of animal substances, the azote thus absorbed is again given out, and thus its quantity in atmospherical air remains unaltered. 3. Carbonic acid gas, the third constituent of the atmosphere, constitutes rather less than of its volume. It is colour- less and invisible ; but neither destitute of taste nor smell. Its taste is decidedly sour, and it impresses on the nostrils that sen- sation which is observed when a bottle of brisk ale, or of cham- paign just drawn, is applied to them. Its specific gravity is 1‘5277, or it is rather more than 11 times that of common air. One hundred Cubic inches of it at the temperature of 32° weigh 49-9780 grains. No animal can breathe this gas, and it imme- diately extinguishes a candle. Indeed a candle will not burn in a mixture of nine parts of air, and one part of carbonic acid; so that the atmosphere would become unfit for the respiration of animals, and the combustion of fuel, if it contained the tenth part of its bulk of carbonic acid gas. Carbonic acid gas is constantly forming by the processes of breathing and combustion ; yet its quantity never undergoes any sensible increase. Every individual, at an average, by breathing, throws 272 cubic feet of carbonic acid gas into the atmosphere in 24 hours. If we suppose the population of Glasgow to be 350,000, the quantity of carbonic acid gas, thrown daily into the atmosphere by 350,000 human beings, would be 95,200,000 cubic feet. If we admit the other animals, horses, cows, dogs, cats birds, &c., to amount to -Jgth of 350,000, they would produce about 10,800,000 cubic feet more; J so, that the whole carbonic acid thrown into the atmosphere in Glasgow by breathing, in 24 hours, must amount to 106,000,000 cubic feet. If we suppose the consumption of coals in Glasgow and the neighbourhood to amount daily- to 3000 tons, this will produce 1,438,013 cubic feet of carbonic acid gas. Thus, the whole of ° Composed of nitrogen and oxygen, t Composed of nitrogen and hydrogen. + This estimate must be greately under the truth. A cow in 24 hours throws into the atmosphere, by breathing, live times as mucli carbonic acid as a man does.