237 ART, SCIENCE, MECHANICS, AND ENGINEERING. have them enjoy health and become robust. Disease and death destroy more children and adults in large cities, than in rural districts. Dr Farr states, that out of equal proportions of Eng- lish inhabitants, in a given time, 47 die in cities, and 29 in the country. One-half of all the deaths in Glasgow, during the last ten years, were children under five years old. These are appal- ling facts, and humanity demands an immediate legislative re- medy for the prevention of this human destruction. If mecha- nical and agricultural labour were usefully combined ; and if the population were more extended over the country, instead of being pent up into large overcrowded cities, the muscles of the popula- tion would speedily attain their due development, and death would ensue only from natural causes. Unless the body be regularly supplied with plenty of nutrient diet, the muscles will lose their vigour and soon decay. There is a continual waste going on. To supply the carbon for respi- ration during a day, supposing that the individual takes mode- rate exercise, and throws off 8 oz. of that element in the form of carbonic acid, he requires 18 oz. of starch, which is equivalent to 1| lbs. of wheaten bread, or 7j lbs. of potatoes ; and to repair the waste of his muscular system, he requires during the same time to assimilate from his food not less than 350 grains of nitrogen, that is, as much nitrogen as is contained in 5 oz. of gluten or fibrin. Now If lbs. of bread contain 3 oz. of gluten, and 7^ lbs. of potatoes contain oz. of that constituent; in the one case there therefore remains to be supplied 2 oz., and in the other, 2£ oz. of gluten ; and suppose the deficiency to be made up with beef; 8 oz. with if lbs. of bread, or 10 oz. with 7£ lbs. of potatoes, are the calculated quantities of diet which are essential to the maintenance of the animal system in a healthy state. If a man would attempt to live on bread alone, he ought to consume 3 lbs. per day ; in the case of potatoes, no less than 15 lbs. I shall now proceed to the muscles of the lower extremities. The muscles that move the thigh bone are the 14 following : 1st, Tensor vaginae femoris ; 2d, Psoas magnus ; 3d, Psoas par- vus ; 4th, Uiacus internus ; 5th, Pectinalis ; and 6th, The Tri- ceps femoris, which -is subdivided into the three following branches ; viz., Adductor longus, adductor brevis, and adductor magnus. These six muscles move the thigh forward, point the toes inward, and are inserted as follows :—The Psoas magnus and Uiacus internus, into the trochanter major of the thigh bone, and the pectinalis and triceps into the linea aspera. The first three of the remainder of these fourteen muscles are ; 7th, The Glutseus maximus ; 8th, Glutseus medius ; and 9th, The Glutseus minimus. These three move the thigh-bone back- ward and outward, and are inserted as follows :—The Glutmus maximus into the linea aspera ; the Glutaeus medius into the trochanter major, and Glutseus minimus into the top of the trochanter. The remaining five muscles are ; 10th, The Obtu- rator externus ; 11th, The Gemini, which some anatomists sub- divide into two; 12th, The Obturator internus; 13th, The Quadratus femoris ; and 14th, The Pyriformis. These five move the thigh-bone backward, roll it on its axis, and are also inserted as follows:—The Obturatores externus and internus, the pyriformis and gemini into the root of the trochanter and the quadratus, betwixt the trochanters. These fourteen large fleshy muscles (in toto~) assist in forming the contour of the thigh, and perform many of its most powerful and useful actions. There are four muscles that extend the leg :—1st, The Rectus femoris ; 2d, Crurseus ; 3d, Vastus internus ; and 4th, Vastus externus. These large muscles assist in forming the thigh, and are all implanted by one strong tendon into the patella, or knee-lid. But the vastus externus and internus also send some fibres to be inserted on the outer part of the head of the tibia or great bone of the leg,—the knee being a hinge-joint, these four muscles extend the leg, bend the thigh on the trunk, and are the great agents in running, leaping, and walking. There are six Flexor muscles that bend the leg:—1st, The Sarto- rius, or Tailor’s muscle, by which the legs are crossed ; 2d, Gracilis; 3d, Semitendinosus; 4th, Semimembranosus ; 5th, 1 oplitseus ; and 6th, Biceps cruris. The first four are inside flexors, and their tendons are inserted into the rough head of the tibia, or largo bone of the leg ; they also form the ham- strings, and extend their aponeurotic expansions downward upon the leg. The tendon of the biceps is implanted into the upper knob of the fibula, or small bone of the leg, and the popli- tmus is inserted broad into a ridge on the back part of the tibia. These muscles form part of the fleshy and tendinous substance of the ham and thigh. There are six Extensor muscles of the foot ; the first four, viz., 1st, The gastrocnemius ; 2d, The plan- taris ; 3d, The solajus ; and 4th, Tibialis posticus, lie on the back part of the leg ; and the last two, viz., 5th, The periuseus longus ; and 6th, perinaeus brevis, lie on the outside of the leg. These extensor muscles are useful in running, walking, and leaping. There are also two flexor muscles of the foot, that bend it when acting together, lying on the fore part of the leg, viz., the tibialis anticus, and the perinaeus tertius. The tendon of Achilles, (or the thick cord which is attached to the heel-bone, and forms the inferior posterior portion of the leg,) is formed by the union of the solseus and gastrocnemius muscles. There are sixteen muscles of the toes that move them in every direction,— their names generally denote their uses : flexion, extension, ab- duction, and adduction, are performed by their action. 1st, Flexor longus pollicis ; 2d, Flexor longus digitorum pedis; 3d, Massa carnea ; 4th, Flexor brevis digitorum ; 5th, Lumbricalis ; 6th, Extensor longus digitorum pedis; 7th, Extensor digitorum brevis; 8th, Extensor pollicis proprius, and the crucial ligaments ; 9th, Abductor pollicis ; 10th, Flexor brevis pollicis ; 11th, Adductor pollicis ; 12th, Transversalis pedis; 13th, Abductor minimi digiti; 14th, Flexor brevis minimi digiti; 15th, Interossei interni; 16th, Interossei externi, 17th, The plantaris aponeu- rosis is a thick aponeurotic expansion that defends the sole of the foot, and protects the blood-vessels, muscles and nerves, that lie under it from external injury. Sometimes contraction of the aponeurosis contracts the foot and deforms it. The toes are drawn inward and toward the sole of the foot, impeding its mechanical movements. The cure is accomplished by dividing the aponeurosis with a long thin knife nicely introduced under- neath the skin. The foot is afterwards retained in a proper extended position, and subsequent inflammation prevented till it heals. I was lately present when this simple operation was very adi-oitly performed on a boy, by an hospital surgeon. The aponeurosis of his foot was contracted, and also the tendo- Achilles. His toes were bent inward and downward, and his heel drawn upward and backward,—as soon as the aponeurosis and tendo-Achilles were divided, the foot partially resumed a natural position. A case of this kind requires a great deal of skilful management, even after the operation, and several weeks must elapse before it is cured. Some of the French surgical authors inform us, that clubfoot contractions generally resume their original deformity, about four years after an operation. It would be desirable that the ultimate progress of such cases were also strictly watched by British surgeons, and reported to the profession. If the French authors are correct with these statements, it would not be very desirable for a patient to endure the operation, with the certainty of a relapse. I am aware that some cases of squinting partially corrected by recent surgical operations, have again resumed their original obliquity. The flexors and extensors, the adductors and abductors of the toes, are antagonist muscles; the flexors bend the toes down- ward ; the extensors raise them upward; the adductors draw them inward, and the abductors outward. And much in the same manner, the antagonists of the leg also act upon the foot, and move it by the ankle-joint in every possible direction. The mechanism of the leg and foot is beautiful and perfect, and nothing that science has invented can equal its beauty and utility. By the simple and combined action of a few bones and muscles, we climb, walk, run, leap, dance, Ac., and perform tumbling and equestrian feats; without the muscles of the lower extremities, we should be obliged to stand immovable like statues, and vegetate like plants ; yet aided by the simple, combined, and harmonious muscular machinery, we can move our joints at pleasure, and travel from place to place with agility and ease. By their powerful action, we climb the wild hills of Scotland and Wales—ascend the hoary Alps—mount the gigan- tic Andes, and overtop the almost insurmountable Himalayas. By their mechanical power we descend valleys, cross ravines, bogs, and marshes—traverse the sandy deserts of Africa, and the green prairies of America—parade through the richest king- doms and capitals of the world, and visit the sublimest scenery of nature. The youthful, stout, active, and comfortable pedes- trian, pursuing his voluntary journey without encumbering equi- page in fine summer weather, and occasionally pausing on his