144 THE IMPERIAL JOURNAL OF from the sternum to the thyroid cartilage, and pulls the throat downvrard. 3d, The omo-hyoideus, a long, slender muscle, reaches from the shoulder to the os-hyoides. If this muscle acts singly, it pulls the throat to one side ; if both act, one on ea(Th side, their power is equally balanced, and they assist the two former in pulling the throat directly downward, and at the same time it presses the windpipe a little downward and back- ward. These three muscles are almost continually in action, and are only completely relaxed when we are eating,—their relax- ation permits the throat to be drawn upward, and the mouth thrust a little backward, which always happens during degluti- tion, which cannot he performed otherwise. There are four muscles on the neck that pull the throat up- ward. 1st, The mylo-hyoideus, a flat broad muscle (arising from the whole semicircle of the lower jaw), divided by a tendi- nous white substance down its middle, in a line with the chin, and inserted at the base of the os-hyoides a,t the root of the tongue. Some anatomists divide this muscle into two, and call them distinct muscles. 2d, Genio-hyoideus, a neat pair of muscles, beautiful and radiated, arising from a small tubercle behind the chin, implanted into the basis of the os-hyoides. The sub-maxillary gland lies between this muscle and the omo-hyoi- deus, and in the middle, the duct of the gland pierces the mem- brane of the mouth, to open beneath the root of the tongue. The mylo-hyoideus, and genio-hyoideus, move the bone of the tongue forward and upward, when the lower jaw is fixed , but when the os-hyoides is fixed by the muscles that come from the sternum or breast bone, they pull the jaw downward. 3d, The stylo-hyoideus is one of three beautiful slender muscles, arising from about the middle of the styloid process, and is fixed into the side of the os-hyoides. Its fibres split above its insertion, and form a neat small loop for the passage of the tendon of the digastric muscle. The one of the other two-styloid muscles is inserted into the pharynx, and the other into the tongue ; their common action is to draw back the tongue, and pull up the throat. 4th, The digastricus, is a double-bellied muscle ; the one nelly arises from the root of the mastoid process, and, proceed- ing obliquely forward and downward, passes by the side of the os-hyoides, slips through the loop of the stylo-hyoideus, and is fixed by a tendinous bridle to the side of the os-hyoides ; and then, turning upward towards the chin, ends in a second fleshy belly, which is inserted into the lower jaw on the inside of its circle. This muscle, along with the stylo-hyoideus, pulls the throat upward and backward. There are seven muscles on the throat that move the parts and the cartilages of the windpipe upon each other. 1st, The hyo-thyroideus goes from the thyroid cartilage to the os-hyoides, and compresses and shortens the windpipe. 2d, The crico-thyroideus, passes from the upper edge of the cricoid, to the lower margin of the thyroid cartilage, and also compresses and shortens the windpipe. 3d, Musculus arytenoideus trans- versus, arises from almost the whole length of one of the aryte- noid cartilages, and is inserted to the same extent into the other. It contracts the glottis by drawing the cartilages towards each other. 4th, Arytenoideus obliquus, arises from the root of one arytenoid cartilage, goes obliquely into the other, draws them together, and closes the rima glottidis. 5th, Crico-arytenoi- deus-posticus, a small pyramidal muscle arising from the back part of the cricoid, is inserted into the posterior portion of the thyroid cartilage. It pulls the arytenoid cartilages directly back- ward, lengthens the slit of the glottis, and by closing it neatly, produces some of the most delicate modulations of the voice. 6th, Crico arytenoideus lateralis, comes from the sides of the cricoid, and is implanted into the arytenoid cartilage. It pulls them asunder, and slackens the lips of the rima glottidis, or opening of the windpipe. 7th, The thyreo-arytenoideus, arises from the posterior surface of the wing of the thyroid, and is implanted into the anterior part of the arytenoid cartilage. It pulls them forward and sideways, slackens the ligaments, and widens the glottis. . . There is yet another muscle, the thyreo-epiglottideus, which has been divided by Albinus into major and minor; but it is frequently wanting. There are also a set of fibres, sometimes seen running from the arytenoid cartilage to the epiglottis, ca e the aryteno-epiglottideus, but in many subjects they arc also not present. When the masticated morsel in the mouth, after being chewed, is prepared to be swallowed, the velum palati (or curtain of the palate), depending at the posterior part ot the mouth, is drawn upward, and the opening of the throat is expanded. But whenever the morsel has passed down into the oesophagus or gullet, the curtain of the palate again falls down ; for when the arch of the throat is contracted, and the gullet is compressed by its own muscles, the food is then forced downward into the stomach, more by muscular action than its own gravity. Indeed, the muscles of the throat can perform this function very easily against the laws of gravity altogether ; for sometimes we see showmen and mountebanks with facility swallowing food and liquids, while standing erect on their heads, with their feet upper- most, merely to elicit money and applause from their spectators. There are eleven muscles belonging to the palate and pharynx, which I will now briefly describe. 1st, Azygos uvulae, in the centre of the velum pendulum palati, or that curtain which hangs at the back of the tliroat. There is a small depending pap or point of flesh called the pap of the throat. The azygos u\ ui;e is the only muscle belonging to this pap, and pulls it upward to keep it out of the way of the morsel about to be swallowed after mastication. 2d, Levator palati mollis arises from the os-pe- trosum, the Eustachian tube, and sphenoid bone, and spreads over the velum pendulum palati, or curtain of the throat. It pulls up the curtain when food is to be swallowed, and also pre- vents the food from passing up to the nostrils by spreading the velum or curtain backward, and protecting the passage. It also protects the mouth of the Eustachian tube, or internal open- ing of the ear, and prevents the food passing into it, so that hearing is unimpaired. 3d, Circumflexus palati arises from the sphenoid bone, and the beginning of the Eustachian tube, or in- ternal opening of the ear at the back part of the month : it runs along the tube, and becoming tendinous, turns under the hook of the internal pterygoid process, and mounts again to the side of the curtain of the palate: its office is to pull down the palate, and by stretching it to make it tense. 4th, Constrictor isthmi faucium arises from the root of the tongue on each side, extends to the middle of the velum (or curtain), and terminates near the uvula. The semi-circle which this expansion describes forms the first arch that presents itself to the eye, when we look into the mouth. This muscle pulls down the curtain and elevates the root of the tongue, to meet the vail. 5th, Palato pharyngeus, forms the second arch of the throat, begins at the middle ot the soft palate, extends round the entry into the fauces, and termi- nates in the wing or edge of the thyroid cartilage. The first arch belongs to the root of the tongue; the second arch belongs to the o-ullet. This muscle contracts the arch of the fauces, or gullet, and assists in closing it on the food passing down the ccsophagus, on its way to the stomach. I will now explain the pharynx. The pharynx is that opening of the gullet which hangs from the basis of the skull, and is attached to the occiput, or posterior bone of the head, also to the pterygoid process, and the back parts of the jaw- bones. It expands into a large capacious bag, for the tree reception of the morsel of food about to be swallowed, and ter- minates in the oesophagus, or that tube by which the food is conveyed down into the stomach. The pharynx is bounded by the root of the tongue, and the arches of the throat. It lies flat and smooth posteriorly, along the bones of the vertebra;, or spine, over which it is placed. It is protected anteriorly, and partly surrounded by the cartilages of the wind-pipe. Its sides are embraced by the horns of the os-hyoides, or bone of the tongue, and it is covered with flat muscular fibres, arising from this° bone and the cartilages. These fibres spreading round the pharynx are named its constrictors, because they embrace it closely, and force down the masticated food by their con- tractions. 6th, The stylo-pharyngeus (a long slender beautiful muscle) arises from the root of the stvloid process, expands on the side of the pharynx, and extends to the edge of the thyroid cartilage. It raises the pharynx to receive the morsel, and then straightens and compresses it to push the morsel down, and by its hold on the thyroid cartilage, it commands not only the larynx, but the whole of the throat. 7th, Constrictor-superior, arises from the basis of the skull, the jaws, palate, and root of the tono-ue. It surrounds the upper portion of the pharynx, and is not one circular muscle, but rather two muscles divided in the middle, posteriorly, by a distinct rapha, or approximation of opposite fibres. 8th, Constrictor medius arises from the round point in which the os-hyoidcs terminates, and the cartilage ol the os-hyoides, where its horns are joined to its body : it lies oicr the constrictor-superior, like a second layer: its uppermost point