295 ART, SCIENCE, MECHANICS, AND ENGINEERING. bone in its structure, (see page 268,) and consists of a body and processes; the word process in anatomy signifying a projection or prominence. The body of each vertebra is of tho nature of a short bone, spongy in its texture, and very light. It is semicir- cular, or nearly so, being convex in front, and is flat above and below, where it supports and rests upon its neighbours. In the accompanying cut, b repre- sents the body of the verte- bra, with its upper flat sur- face turned toward the reader. From the back of the body, the arch of the vertebra is seen to spring, enclosing a space which is occupied by the spinal mar- row. A couple of articular processes, a a, are seen, which receive a correspond- ing pair from the vertebra above, and two, similar to these, are sent downward, to articulate with the one next be- low. Then, to serve as levers, for the purpose of bending and turning the spine, we have two transverse processes, x t, passing out on each side, and the spinous process, s, passing backward. These spinous processes form the chain of projections felt under the skin, which give the name to the whole column. The four- and-twenty vertebrae are joined together so as to allow of a little i motion, and but a little, at any one joint, in order that the spinal marrow which passes down through the canal formed by the ap- position of the different rings, may not be injured by too sudden a twist; but that the curves which it is obliged to form, in the j various motions of the body, may be very gradual. Even when at rest, the spine is not straight, but curved in I 1 lree different places. First, it curves forward, where it rests Ion the pelvis, that it may not be exposed to too rough a shock, "hen we begin to move, from being in a state of rest. Secondly, it curves backward, in the region of the back, to increase the capacity of the chest, in which the heart and lungs are to be lodged. Thirdly, it curves forward again in the neck, in order to bring the weight of the head, which rests on it, over the point I 1 ot support between the feet. Three regions are distinguished in the spine—the first, the cervical, or that of the neck, consisting of seven vertebrae ; the second, or that of the back, consisting of twelve ; and the third, or that of the loins, consisting of five. The vertebras of the loins are the most moveable : it is here that the turning and bending of the trunk chiefly takes place, and, consequently, it is to this region that injuries are most apt to occur. Those of the neck are also very moveable, in order to allow of the head being turned in every direction, principally, it would seem, to extend, as much as possible, the sphere of vision. To the twelve vertebrae of the back the ribs are attached— twelve on each side, in order to form the chest. On this account, they admit of but little motion on one another, because they, with the ribs and breast-bone, are to work together, as constitu- ting, in a great measure, a single organ. The ribs are long curved bones, convex externally, and con- cave internally. They get gradually longer from the first to the seventh, and from that shorter again to the twelfth. The ten upper ribs are connected to the breast-bone in front, by means of thin cartilages; which arrangement, it has been already remarked, gives elasticity to the walls of the chest. The lowest two, not be- ing attached in front, are called the floating ribs. The heads of the ribs behind are connected to the vertebrae by a kind of hinge joint, which allows each rib to move up and down in the action of breathing. Each rib passes from its attachment, downward, outward, and forward ; so that when lifted up by the muscles of inspiration, it at the same time is Carried outward, and so enlarges, in both directions, the capacity of the chest. The breast-bone is about seven inches long, about two broad above, and one below, and ends in a moveable point formed of cartilage. It is smooth and convex in front, gives the promi- nence to the fore-part of the chest, and projects conspicuously in some individuals, who are thence commonly called “ pigeon- breasted.” It has the cartilages of the ribs inserted into its edges ; it has a hollow in its upper part to make room for the wind-pipe to pass down behind it, and to its two upper corners the two collar-bones are attached. The Chest, viewed as a whole, is conical—the apex of the cone being above, and the base below; the aperture above is small, measuring about four inches across, and two from before back- ward, allowing the wind-pipe and gullet, and the great veins oi the arms and head to pass down, and their arteries to pass up. The inferior opening of the chest is large, and is filled by a mus- cle named the diaphragm, a Greek word, which literally means the partition; because it separates the belly from the chest, forming a roof for the one and a floor for the other. The chest is considerably deeper behind than in front, and the edges of the cartilages of the ribs can be felt, and, in a thin person, seen passing upward from the flanks, and meeting at an angle with the breast-bone, leaving a hollow between them, which is known as the pit of the stomach. The Pelvis is so named because it is somewhat like a basin, only it has a wide aperture in the bottom, through which the canals from the bowels and the bladder, and in the female from the womb, make their exit. It consists of three distinct parts, the two liaunch-bones, and the rump-bone. The last part some- times receives the name of the false vertebra}—for in the young subject it consists of five pieces, which are real vertebrae—but in the adult these are firmly united into one, convex behind, and concave in front. It is of a triangular form, the base above, and the point below ; and is terminated by two little pieces which do not make any projection externally, but are the same as those which, in greater number, constitute the tails of the lower animals. They are all that man possesses for a tail, or ever did possess,—all that Lord Monboddo has written to the contrary not- withstanding. The portions of the pelvis which form its sides are of a very irregular figure, expanded above on each side to form the projections of the haunches, narrow where they meet in front to form the part called the share-bone ; having two knobs below, on which we sit, and two sockets below and towards the front, for receiving the heads of the thigh-bones. From the struc- ture of the pelvis it will be understood, that it forms nearly a circle, possessing the strength of the double arch. The upper part of the arch has its abutments resting on the heads of the thigh- bones, and supports the spine upon its key-stone ; while the re- versed arch below binds the abutments together, and prevents their separation. The pelvis has another use, in forming the ; floor to the cavity of the belly, and so assisting to support its