THE IMPERIAL JOURNAL OF 2G8 place them separately. The bones forming the spine are the best examples of these, as combinations of long and short bones. The ribs, and bones of the pelvis, may, perhaps, be also arranged with them, as combining the characters of the long and flat. We shall find that the different bones present points for de- monstration of various kinds. They have surfaces which may be rough or smooth, for the attachment of the softer parts, or to allow these to play over them,—have hollows for the reception of muscles, or other organs,—they have grooves for tendons to run in, or for blood-vessels to lie in,—they have holes for vessels and nerves to pass through,—they have articular surfaces; rough if the joint is to be immoveable; smooth if it be to admit of motion ; and they have processes, or projecting points, to which particular fibres, of muscle, or of ligament, are to be connected. If we prepare bones by careful steeping and drying, so as to remove all the oily matter from out of them, and then saw them up, or break them, we shall observe the density of their tissue to differ much in different parts. The outer part is much harder and denser, than the internal part, and is called the compact sub- stance. The internal part is of a looser texture, and is called the cancellated, (that is, cellular,) or spongy substance. These tissues are arranged differently in the different orders of bones. In the flat bones, the compact substance is arranged into two layers, separated by a thin layer of cancellated structure, through which the blood-vessels which nourish the bone run. When the bone is very thin, the two outer layers are in contact, or appear compressed into one, and the intermediate layer has disappeared. In the round bones, there is a very thin layer of compact tissue on the outside, wdiile the internal part is composed of spongy tissue. In consequence of this predominance of spongy tissue, and conse- quently of blood-vessels, the round bones are much more liable to inflammation than any of the others. The long bones consist of three parts—a shaft and two extremities. The shaft consists of very dense compact tissue externally, becoming loose internally, and having a canal running through it nearly from end to end ; while the extremities are of the same structure with the short bones. This canal makes the bone much stronger than if it were solid, with the same quantity of material, because its diameter is thus much greater ; a principle which is understood and acted on by engineers, who make hollow pillars and shafts to gain additional strength without additional expense of metal. The canal which runs through the long bones is lined with a delicate membrane, in which is contained the medulla or mar- row ; hence it is called the medullary canal. The medulla is in the young chiefly bloody; in older persons it is oily; and it is put into the canals, not to oil the bones, as many erroneously sup- pose, but because there is no empty space permitted in the body, and fatty matter is the lightest that could be used for filling them. Besides, the marrow serves the same purpose as the fat in other parts of the body; it is a store of nourishment whence the body can be supported, when unable to take any nourish- ment from without. In fevers, for instance, when the patient scarcely tastes food for perhaps a fortnight or three weeks, he is maintained on the superfluous parts of his own body; and hence the sunken cheeks and shrunk shanks of such a sufferer when beginning to recover. That this marrow is not of any use to the bone itself is sufficiently proved by the fact, that in birds there is none; but their bones are very thin, and the canals large in order to be light, and instead of marrow they are filled with air, by communications with the windpipe leading to the lungs. There is a common notion that the marrow is exceedingly sen- sible, and it is remarked “ how painful the application of the saw must be in amputation, from its tearing its way through the marrow.” Now, the fact is, that the marrow is very little, if at all sensible; and all the pain felt in sawing the bone is a sort of jarring communicated to the soft parts which have been already divided. The irregular bones, resembling in shape two or more of the preceding orders, have some of their parts, generally their bodies, resembling the round bones; and others, the processes, resembling the long and flat. The animal and earthy parts of bone can be easily separated, and demonstrated in a separate state. If a piece of bone be immersed for a day or two in diluted muriatic (hydrochloric) acid, the earthy part will be completely dissolved out, and the animal part will be left; yet the bone will still have the same size and the same shape,—so intimately are the two different materials blended together. If it be now dried and weighed, it will be found to have lost nearly two-thirds of its original weight —the loss consisting of the earthy particles. The substance now obtained is the cartilage of bone, which is very nearly the same in composition as the cartilage which we find in the body, ready formed by nature. It is much softer than bone, but harder than any other of the soft parts; it is highly elastic, and if com- pressed or bent, speedily regains its original shape. When dried, it assumes a darker colour, and becomes hard and tough, translucent, and very like horn. When boiled, this substance is nearly all dissolved, yielding a fine transparent jelly; and it was a knowledge of this property which suggested to Papin the in- vention of his digester, in which, by boiling bruised bones under strong pressure, the jelly is obtained, and a large quantity of strong soup is made from what would otherwise be entirely worthless. The earthy part of the bone is demonstrated in a different manner. If a bone be put into a clear fire, and heated to redness, the animal part is entirely consumed, and a white friable earth is left behind. This earth consists almost wholly of lime, in combination with phosphoric and carbonic acids. It is on account of their containing the former acid, that phosphorus is obtained from calcined bones. There are minute portions of other salts in the earthy part of bone, but these need only be named in a subsequent table. When a bone has been thus burned, and is weighed, it will be found above one-third lighter than at first, the loss consisting of the gelatinous part. As was remarked of the gelatinous part when obtained by itself, so also the earthy part has exactly the original shape of the bone, and the most minute bony threads of the cancellated texture are still seen existing. It was long believed that fat, or oil, was an essential part of bones, but that is now known not to be the case; for, the greasy appearance which bones are apt to have does not belong to themselves, but is the consequence of the marrow transuding through them after death. The bones are covered by a dense membrane called the Periosteum, which adheres strongly to them, serves to convey the blood-vessels to them, and sends prolongations into all the little holes which exist in great number on their surfaces. It also serves as the medium for the attachment of tendons and liga- ments to them, having those parts in a manner interwoven and confounded with its outer surface. The periosteum has also a considerable share in the growth of young bones, and in the reparation of old ones, when fractures or other injuries may have rendered that necessary. When the bones touch one another, and are moveable, they are particularly smooth, and their surfaces are adapted to one another by corresponding prominences and concavities. In addi- tion, to obviate friction they are covered at these places with what is called gristle, or cartilage. Cartilage is intermediate in hardness to bone, and what are properly called the soft parts—it is firm and resisting, and yet it has a great deal of elasticity. In some parts of the body there are cartilages serving for continua- tions to hones, such as those which continue the ribs, and con- nect them to the breast-bone, and they are exactly similar to bones from which the earthy part has been dissolved by an acid. But the cartilaginous crusts which cover the articular ends of bones are of a very beautiful and peculiar structure. If a piece of bone be sawn up towards its articular end, till all but cut through, and then the remaining part, and the cartilage covering it, be torn asunder, the cartilage will be found to pre- sent an infinity of fibres set perpendicularly on the surface of the bone. When a portion of bone with its articular cartilage has been macerated in water for some weeks, the cartilage is found to have lost its smooth surface and its cohesion, and looks exactly as if the bone had been covered with a bit of white velvet. It will now be obvious that, when pressure is made on the ends of the fibres, they yield by bending a little sideways, but are prevented from yielding much, by the closeness with which they are set together. In effect, the result is just what is seen on a larger scale, if the finger be pressed against the flat surface of a common clothes-brush, the bristles bending a little sideways, and so presenting an indentation on the surface. As hones are living parts, they of necessity are provided with blood-vessels and nerves. On the surface of every bone may be remarked an infinity of minute pores, into which small blood- vessels run. If the surface of a bone be exposed by an injury in the living body, it will be seen to bleed, and it can be coloured artificially in the dead body, in a manner which will be explained