ART, SCIENCE, MECHANICS, AND ENGINEERING. 143 Common Process. Abridged Process. 30400000) 16014387161 (626 304) 160143 (526 152000000 1520 81438716 814 60800000 608 206387161 2063 182400000 1824 23987161 23987161 To divide by 5, multiply by 2, and strike off the last figure, half of which is the remainder, and what precedes is the quotient. For 2150 -i- 5 = (2150 X 2) -4- (5 X 2) = 4300 -4-10 = 430. Reciprocally, the easiest way of multiplying by 5, is to annex a cipher and to divide by 2. To divide by 25, multiply by 4, and strike off the last two figures, which leaves the quotient; and a fourth part of the figures struck off, considered as one number, is the remainder. For 1725 -4-25 = (1725 X 4) -4- (25 X 4) = 6900 -4-100 = 69. Reciprocally, to multiply by 25, annex two ciphers, and divide by 4. As multiplication and division are exactly inverse operations, it is unnecessary to prescribe any other mode of forming exer- cises in this rule ; for the division of one number by another being effected, the correctness or incorrectness of the result is at once proved by multiplying the quotient by the divisor, and adding the remainder if any ; this final result ought to be the dividend. As this however is like working without an object, the student may prove for himself that the following formulre arc true, whatever numbers we put for A and B, (provided always that A be made greater than B.) AXA —BXB , , „ AXA+2XAXB + BXB . . _ A—B “ A + B -A-f-B Thus supposing A = 169 and B = 3 7; the formula; assert that 169 X 169 — 37X37 169-37 = 169 + 37= 206 169 X 169 + 2 X 169 X 37+37 X 37 169 + 37 —= 169+37 = 206. Question. Suppose there are one thousand millions, six thou- sand five hundred and sixty human beings in the world, and that the average of life is 36 years of 365 days ; how many die every day ? Ans. 76104. ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY. CHAPTER V. TUB muscles and muscular action.—Continued. Every motion of the body is performed by its muscles,—they move us from one place to another; and without them we could not enjoy the pleasures of locomotion. Birds fly, fishes swim, insects run, and reptiles creep by muscular power. I lay down my arm by a layer of muscles placed below it for this purpose. I raise it by another layer placed above it. Into whatever position I put my body, turn, and twist it, the move- ments are not only muscular, but more mechanically just, than , the motions of the nicest adjusted machinery of a patent-chrono- meter, or the correctly arranged apparatus of the best high-pres- sure engine. If I speak, sing, or whisper, the muscles of my windpipe, and tongue, minutely contract in almost an infinity ot movements without my consciousness, and produce the sounds required, according to the exactest laws of oral expression, and musical harmony. The tongue and its motions are muscular. The eyeballs are mechanically moved and adapted to the laws of optics by their muscles. The collection and communication of the vibrations of air by the external ear, and the motions of the little bones of the internal ear, by which sounds are conveyed to the audi- tory nerve and brain, are the result of the most beautifully correct and harmonious muscular action. The peristaltic motion of tho bowels is muscular. Eating, swallowing, ejecting, and dejecting, are simply the result of muscular power. Without the muscles] man would be a mere automaton, having the external human form without the faculty of locomotion, and lie inactive in whatever position he was placed, like a fallen statue, exposed to the win- ter storm and the summer sun, without the means of defence, and perish in utter helplessness by the inclemency of the sea- sons, of nakedness, hunger, and thirst. If man were not endowed with muscular power, he would naturally fall forward ; and, ac- cording to the laws of gravity, he could not stand erect, it is muscular power that not only preserves his upright position, but makes him move slowly, rapidly, gracefully, and slovenly as he feels inclined. The mechanism and adaptation of the muscles is based, like other mechanical action, on lever power—a convincing proof that our Almighty Creator is not only infinitely wise and provident, but has made and adapted them according to the most perfect mechanical laws. Muscles are composed of fibrin, al- bumen, gelatine, extractive phosphate ofsoda, phosphate of ammo- nia, phosphate of lime, and carbonate of lime. Their atomical composition, by bulk, is one atom of oxygen, and three atoms of hydrogen. To prevent any misapprehension among readers, I may simply mention, that by the muscles—1 mean those parts of the body com- monly known by the name of lean flesh. In my last essay I de- scribed the mechanism and functions of the muscles of the head, and also the cartilages of the windpipe. In my present essay, I will begin where I terminated in my last. The subject cannot fail to be interesting to mechanics and students, and indeed to every person who wishes to understand the structure and functions of his own body. The individual who is ignorant of this knowledge, notwithstanding all his other acquirements, is destitute of the' first and best elements of domestic, social, and philosophical edu- cation. I feel sorry that I am obliged to give so many of the semi-barbarous old anatomical names of the muscles in describ- ing their mechanism and action, for they are not known by any other nomenclature. The origin of these obsolete names is gene- rally derived from the Greek ; and if properly understood, they are intended to express their appearances, shape, situation, uses, and action. But why they should always remain in this Greels- ish jargon, is an anomaly I cannot explain, otherwise than for the sake of making them harmonize with the enigmatical Latin prescriptions, affected pomposity, assumed gravity, and myste- rious taciturnity of the dignified medical profession, that in many instances (so unchangeable are its manners), for the last two hundred years, has not made one decided attempt at a rational reform. In these untoward circumstances, it might be deemed presumptuous, were I to attempt to change, in this Jour- nal, the anatomical nomenclature which has been so gravely sanctioned by so many learned anatomists and great public teachers in ancient and modern times. But notwithstanding all this conservatism, there have, nevertheless, been many im- portant suggestions and practical hints devised for its reforma- tion, by some of the most celebrated private anatomical lecturers nf the age. Dr. Robert Hunter, the eminent professor of surgery in the Andersonian University, Glasgow, proposed, in a medical pe- riodical, as an improvement, to describe the muscles simply by enumeration, and gave us some examples of the facility and uti- lity of his plan ; but as it was not generally appreciated by our celebrated public anatomists, who claim the privilege of beino the legitimate leaders of professional fashions, it fell to the ground in embryo, like many other great abortions of ingenious minds. As the technicalities of anatomy make learned treatises on this subject sealed books to the masses—for the use of mankind they ought to be simplified. There are three muscles on the throat which pull it down- ward ; 1st, The sterno-hyoideus, a broad flat riband-like muscle, passing from the sternum (or breast bone), to the os hyoides(or bone of the tongue). It pulls the throat directly downward. 2d, Thesterno-thyroideus, a flat, smooth, riband-like muscle, thicker and fleshier than the former, and very uniform in bulk, passes