THE IMPERIAL JOURNAL OF 490 Erewhile absorbed, the vagrant globules swim, From each fair feature, and proportioned limb, Joined in one trunk, with deeper tint return To the warm concave of the vital urn.” The principal diseases incident to veins are their be- coming varicose, and their inflaming. The veins of the lower limbs, in persons who have much standing, become ; distended by the pressure of the long column of blood above | them, so that the valves are forced ; and the pressing column thus becomes longer—and of course always the longer the W01-se—because the pressure is so much the greater. The blood does not now get freely back from the legs; the smaller veins become swelled and twisted, having the appearance of knots of blue cords immediately underneath the skin. Some- times the feet become swollen and almost dropsical; some- times the skin gives way, and bleeding ulcers form, which are exceedingly difficult to heal. To obviate these evils, the legs must be kept constantly bandaged, or elastic stockings worn, such as are to be got at the instrument-makers, to compress the limbs, and so prevent their veins from being over-distended. The inflammation of the veins occurs after their being injured, either by accident in the limbs, or by the tearing they undergo, in the womb, in the process of child- bearing. The lining membrane of the veins, when inflamed, suppurates, and pours out purulent matter, which is conveyed along with the blood through the rest of the system, pro- ducing the most disastrous effects, from which scarcely one recovers. The forces by which the blood circulates through the veins, are generally considered to be three. The propelling power of the heart probably still exerts some influence on the blood in the minute arteries, in order to drive it into the small veins ; the right side of the heart seems to exercise a suction upon the great veins which terminate in it, or at least the action of inspiration does so; and the compression of the muscles causes the blood to move towards the heart, as the valves prevent it from retreating towards the extremities. This is tne reason why, in bleeding, something is generally given to the patient to turn in his hand, that the muscles of the fore-arm may be called into play, and at every motion, the stream is seen to spout with accelerated force. When an artery is wounded, it does not heal again as a vein does ; but the skin over it may heal, and then the blood is forced into the cellular tissue, forming a bag full of blood, which pulsates with great force, and is called an aneurism. For the cure of this disease it is necessary to expose the artery and tie it with a thread ; its sides then grow together, and the aneurism becomes obliterated, while the blood gra- dually finds its way through the small branches which com- municate from the upper to the lower part of the limb, and become enlarged, so as to convey a supply adequate for its wants. This is one of the most successful applications of scientific surgery. Sometimes the coats of the artery dilate, and form an aneurism, without any previous wound. They are besides liable to inflammation and to ossification. The frequency of the pulsations of the heart varies much in different individuals, but generally according to a regular gradation at different ages, becoming slower from infancy up to old age. The pulse of an infant in the womb ranges from 140 to 180 in the minute, as can be ascertained by listening with the stethoscope : after birth it diminishes in frequency, but is still above 100 ; in persons of adult age, from 70 to 75 is the usual average, and in men come as far as sixty, the pulse usually beats seconds. The pulse in females is quicker than in males. It varies, besides, according to various modi- fying causes. Exercise quickens it, rest calms it ; even on sitting up, it will be found four or five beats quicker than while lying down. In some few, it may be felt beating not more than 40 in the minute. The whole quantity of blood, in the body of a full-grown man, is calculated at 35 lbs. of 12 oz., so that if the heart beats 75 times in a minute, and expels two ounces from each ventricle at each beat, the whole blood will pass through the circulation in two minutes and a-half. THEOEY AND PRACTICE OE DYEING. CHAPTER III. ON THE MANUFACTURE OF INlJlGO—INDIGO OF COMMERCE—MODES OF ASCERTAINING ITS RELATIVE VALUES CHEMICAL PROPER- TIES— ACTION OF NITRIC ACID, CHLORINE, &C., UPON INDIGO. In the preceding article, we mentioned that, besides the green of leaves and the colours of flowers, which we considered common to all vegetables, there were other colouring matters, which existed only in certain kinds of vegetables, and in particular parts of the vege- table. Indigo is one of these s it belongs to a genus of leguminous plants found in India, Africa, and America, named Indigafera. Botanists have described about sixty species of this genus. These all yield indigo ; but the species from which it is usually extracted are the /. anil, the I. argentea,' and the /. tinctoria. It is also ex- tracted from a tree very commpn in Hindostan, (the Neriurn tinc- torium of botanists,) and from the woad plant, (Isatis tinctoria,) which is a native of Great Britain, and of other parts of Europe. The colouring matter of these plants resides wholly in the cellular tissue of the leaves, as a secretion or juice—not, however, in the blue state in which we are accustomed to see indigo, but as a white substance, which, as we shall presently see, remains white, so long as the tissue of the leaf remains perfect. When this tissue is by any means destroyed, the indigo absorbs oxygen from the atmos- phere, and becomes blue. Of the early history of indigo little is known ; neither is it known when it was first used as a dye-stuff. The Greeks and Romans used it as a paint, under the name of Indicum. Its value, as a dye-stuff^ was not known in Europe, till nearly the close of the sixteenth cen- tury, when it was imported frorti India by the Dutch; but our legislators, for a long time, prohibited its use in England under severe penalties. These prohibitions continued in force till the reign of Charles II., and the reason consisted in its being considered a cor- rosive substance, and capable of destroying the fibres of cloth, and therefore calculated to injure the character of the dyers of this country. This opinion, no doubt, sprung from the strong and inter- ested opposition given to its use by the cultivators of the woad, which was then regarded as an important branch of national in- dustry. The following passage, from “ Barlow’s Manufactures and Ma- chinery of Great Britain,” affords a striking illustration of the political economy of the age, and of the narrow and mistaken ideas which generally prevailed throughout Europe, even down to a com- paratively late era. Woad was a native production, and we need not say that all who were interested in its cultivation were zealous protectionists even in those days :— “ When indigo was first introduced, only a small quantity was added to the woad, by which the latter, was much improved; more was afterwards gradually used, and, at last, the quantity became so large, that the small admixture of woad served only to revive the fermentation of the indigo. Germany thus lost a production by which farmers, merchants, carriers, and olhers, acquired great riches. In consequence of the sales of woad being so much injured, a prohi- bition was issued against the use of indi’go by Saxony, in the year 1650. In the year 1652, duke Ernest the Pious caused a proposal to be made to the diet by his envoy, that indigo should be entirely banished from the empire, and that an exclusive privilege should be granted to those who died with woad. This was followed by an imperial prohibition of indigo on the 21st of April, 1654, which was enforced with the greatest severity in his dominions. The same was done in France; but, in the well-known edict of 1669, in which Colbert separated the fine from the common dyers, it was stated, that indigo should be used without woad; and in 1737 dyers were left at liberty to use indigo alone, or to employ a mixture of indigo and woad.” The plant which yields the indigo in Bengal is a small straight plant furnished with thin branches, which spreads out and forms a sort of tuft; the average height is four feet, but on good ground it sometimes attains a height of even seven feet. . The leaves are soft, and somewhat like those of the common clover,iand the blossoms are of a light reddish colour. The plant is at its greatest perfection when in full blossom, and yields the greatest quantity of indigo. There are two methods for extracting the colouring matter from the leaves : the first is by fermentation and beating. This process is conducted in two large brick cisterns or vats, built in