2G9 ART, SCIENCE, MECHANICS, AND ENGINEERING. in the article on the circulation. This coloration, however, is practicable only in young subjects, where a great flow of blood takes place to the bones, to provide material for their growth; in adult years, when they have reached their full size, and have be- come hard and compact, much less blood, in proportion, circulates through them. There is another very curious way in which the vascularity of young bones can be demonstrated, by making the blood itself the vehicle of the colouring matter with which they are to be injected. If a young animal be fed for a fortnight or so, on food in which a proportion of chopped madder is mixed, the colouring principle of the madder will pass into its blood, arrive in its bones, and there chemically combine with the lime, tinging the bones of a beautiful rose-colour, which is permanent, even after the bones have been cleaned and well washed in pure water. The nerves which are distributed to bones are very trifling, so that in the healthy state they may be said to be almost insensible ; but when they become inflamed, their sensi- bility is so much exalted, that the slightest touch causes excru- ciating agony. The formation and growth of bones is an exceedingly inter- resting subject, but one that cannot well be studied except in the museum, where there are preserved abundant specimens of young children in every different period of foetal life. In the foetus, cartilage serves as a substitute for bone at first, and about the sixth week after conception, earthy matter begins to be deposited in it. In the flat bones it is at first deposited in the centre, aud extends in lines radiating to the circumference, forming a delicate net-work like a bit of lace; and layer is superadded upon layer, until the necessary degree of thickness is obtained. In the round bones, ossification proceeds from the centre to the circumference. In the long bones, ossification commences at the middle of the shaft, and extends outward gradually to near the ends, when it stops. At a period soon after birth, the ends of the long bones begin to ossify separately, in their centres, in the same way that the short bones do, and they continue separated from the shafts of the bones by a layer of cartilage, till the 15th, 16th, or even the 18th year. Hence children should on no account be rudely pulled about, or twisted about the limbs; as the ends of the bones are apt to be thus twisted off—an accident which, if it do not occasion the loss of the limb, will at least produce incurable lameness. The chemical composition of human bone, deprived of its blood, oil, and periosteum, is thus given with great minuteness by the celebrated Swedish chemist, Berzelius :— Cartilage and gelatine (soluble in water), 3217 Blood-vessels, 113 Fluoride of calcium 2 00 Phosphate of lime, : 51 04 Carbonate of lime, 11-30 Phosphate of magnesia, 116 Soda, with a very little muriate of soda and water, 1-20 100-00 The account which has now been given of bone, as a tissue, is applicable, with trifling variations, not only to those of man, but of all the other mammalia, and of birds. In the arrange- ment of the bones, however, every species differs from the rest, according ro the purposes which its body and limbs are intended to serve. The bones united in their places constitute the skeleton. BIOGRAPHY. LEONARD EULER. Leonard Euler was one of the most celebrated mathematicians of - the 18th, or perhaps of any other century. lie was a native of Bale, and was born April 15, 1707. The years of his infancy were passed at Richen, where his father was minister. lie was afterwards sent to the university of Bale ; and as his memory was astonishingly retentive, and his application regular, he per- orined his academical tasks with great rapidity; and all the time that he saved by this was consecrated to the study of I mathematics, which soon became his favourite science. The early progress he made in this branch of study, added fresh ar- dour to his application; by which he likewise obtained a distin- guished mark of the attention and esteem of professor John Bernoulli, who was then one of the most eminent mathematicians in Europe. In 1723, M. Euler took his degree as master of arts ; and de- livered on that occasion a Latin discourse, in which he drew a comparison between the philosophy of Newton and the Cartesian system, which was received with the greatest applause. At his father’s desire, he next applied himself to the study of theology and the oriental languages; and though these studies were foreign to his predominant propensity, his success was consider- able even in this respect: however, with his father’s consent, he afterwards returned to mathematics as his principal object. In continuing to avail himself of the counsels and instructions of M. Bernoulli, he contracted an intimate friendship with his two sons, Nicholas and Daniel; and it was chiefly in consequence of these connexions that he afterwards became the principal orna- ment of the philosophical world. The project of erecting an academy at Petersburg, which had been formed by Peter the Great, was executed by Catharine I.; and the two young Bernoullis being invited to Petersburg in 1725, promised Euler, who was desirous of following them, that they would use their endeavours to procure for him an ad- vantageous settlement in that city. In the mean time, by their advice, he made close application to the study of philosophy, to which he made happy applications of his mathematical know- ledge, in a dissertation on the nature and propagation of sound, and an answer to a prize question concerning the masting of ships; to which the Academy of Sciences adjudged the accessit, or second rank, in the year 1727. From this latter discourse, and other circumstances, it appears that Euler had very early embarked in the curious and useful study of naval architecture, which he afterward enriched with so many valuable discoveries. The study of mathematics and philosophy, however, did not solely engage his attention, as he in the mean time attended the medical and botanical lectures of the professors at Bale. Euler’s merit would have given him an easy admission to honourable preferment either in the magistracy or university of his native city, if both civil and academical honours had not been there distributed by lot. This being against him in a certain promotion, he left his country, set out for Petersburg, and was made joint professor with his countrymen Hermann and Daniel Bernoulli, in the university of that city. At his first setting out in his new career, he enriched the academical collection with many memoirs, which excited a noble emulation between him and the Bernoullis; an emulation that always continued, without either degenerating into a selfish jealousy, or producing the least alteration in their friendship. It was at this time that he carried to new degrees of perfection the integral calculus, invented the calculation by sines, reduced analytical operations to a greater simplicity, and thus was en- abled to throw new light on all the parts of mathematical science. In 1730, Euler was promoted to the professorship of natural philosophy; and in 1733, he succeeded his friend D. Bernoulli in the mathematical chair. In 1735, a problem was proposed by the academy, which required expedition, and for the calcula- tion of which some eminent mathematicians had demanded the space of some months. The problem was undertaken by Euler, who completed the calculation in three days, to the great aston- ishment of the academy : but the violent and laborious efforts that he made to accomplish it, threw him into a fever, that en- dangered his life, deprived him of the use of his right eye, and which afterwards brought on a total blindness. The Academy of Sciences at Paris, which in 1738 had ad- judged the prize to his memoir Concerning the Nature and Pro- perties of Fire, proposed for the year 1740 the important sub- ject of the Tides of the Sea— a problem whose solution compre- hended the theory of the solar system, and required the most arduous calculations. Euler’s solution of this question was adjudged a masterpiece of analysis and geometry; and it was more honourable for him to share the academical prize with such illustrious competitors as Maclaurin and Daniel Bernoulli, than to have carried it away from rivals of less magnitude. Seldom, if ever, did such a brilliant competition adorn the annals of the academy; and perhaps no subject, proposed by that learned body, was ever treated with such force of reasoning and accu-