THE IMPERIAL JOURNAL OF 230 depth of from 8 to G fathoms below water—every where the ground heaved and swelled like an agitated sea, cracking, open- in" and suddenly shutting ; and in many instances, swallowing people alive. Some were totally buried, while others were squeezed to death, their heads only appearing above ground; larger openings swallowed whole houses, and some of these dis- gorged vast currents of water, which rose to considerable heights in the air, and were accompanied with the most obnoxious vapour and stench. The air, which had been a moment before so serene, became dull and red like an oven; while the most frightful noises came from the mountains, which were rending in pieces; while the ghastly and terror-stricken inhabitants ran from place to place, or were seen staggering and falling in all directions; many plantations with their houses were completely swallowed up; not far from Yellows, part of a mountain, after several removes, overwhelmed a whole family, and the greater part of a plantation more than a mile from its former site. A large hill near Port Morant was swallowed up, and a lake substi- tuted in its place, 4 or 5 leagues in extent. The tops ot the mountains in their fall huddled trees and earth before them in the most confused manner, and stopped the passage of several rivers for 24 hours, after which they found out new channels, and brought down to the sea many thousand tons of timber. In the harbour of Port Royal, the shock forced the vessels from their moorings; and the mast heads of several ships, together with the tops of the houses, were afterwards just seen projecting above the water at Tollhouse ; the sea retired about a mile, and vast quantities of fish were left on dry land. About 2000 people are supposed to have perished in this catastrophe, and 3000 whites afterwards died of pestilential diseases, caused by the putrid effluvia which issued from the fissures in the earth which had been opened by the earthquake. On the 1st of November 1755, the city of Lisbon was thrown into dismay by the sound of thunder rolling under the earth, which was immediately succeeded by a violent shock which de- stroyed the greater part of the city, with 60,000 people who perished in the course of ten minutes. Some of the largest mountains in Portugal were shaken to their very foundations and cleft and rent in a most extraordinary manner,—some of them emitting flames and hurling enormous masses of rock into the ad- joining valleys. The quay at Lisbon, upon which a great concourse of people had collected for safety, sunk in a moment, and not one of the persons upon it escaped. A great number ot boats and vessels were swallowed in a whirlpool, no fragment of which ever rose again to the surface. The depth to which the quay sunk, was ascertained to be 100 fathoms. The earthquake was felt throughout nearly the whole of Europe, in Africa, and the West Indies. In Great Britain, rivers and lakes were agitated, the waters of Lochlomond rose two feet, and then subsided below their usual level. It is calculated that the shock travelled at the rate of about 20 miles a minute. A great wave swept round the coast of Spain, where it rose 60 feet high, ilie same phenomenon, though to a less extent, was experienced at Madeira, and on the coast ot Ireland. In the summer of the present year, (1851,) Melfi, in the neigh- bourhood of Naples, so frequently the theatre of those terrible work- ings of nature, was visited by one of the most disastrous earthquakes of modern times. We quote the account given by an eye-witness, a medical officer, despatched by the Neapolitan Government to the scene of the earthquake in the upper Basilicata :— “ The village of Baville has actually' disappeared. I found all about this district large fissures, partly filled up with houses. A man who escaped told me it appeared to him, that tor a minute he was being tossed about in the air : the earth appeared, as it were, en- dowed with a breathing power, and then came a different movement—a shaking to and fro. Here some military had arrived to excavate. There was a strong stench of decomposing bodies. This place was really deserted by the inhabitants; at least, I saw very few. IIow shall I give you an idea of what was once the town of Melfi t The cathedral is down, as are the college, the churches, the military depot, and 163 houses—98 are in a falling state, and 180 pro- nounced as dangerous. The military have arrived, and are woikmg away. Our medical staff is by no means strong enough. More than a thousand bodies have already' been dug up; I need not add, all dead. The wouuded are over 600, and present every variety of flesh-wounds and fracture. Sixty-five boys of the college of Melti are supposed to have perished. The calamity took place when most of the population were sleeping, as is the custom in Italy after dinner.” At the Police Office in Naples, on the 27th August, they replied to inquiries—“ Up to this day the returns of dead bodies, dug out of the ruins from all towns and villages, is 867 ; but the excavations have only commenced.” Much more might be cited to show the devastation wrought by earthquakes, and their effects in producing changes in the configuration of the districts in which they occur; but enough has been adduced to satisfy the reader, that there resides in the interior parts of the earth,—agencies, which when awakened, are capable of producing all that alteration with which we are im- pressed, as having taken place in almost every geological epoch, when we survey the shattered, twisted, and contorted condition of the rocks which compose the crust of the earth. ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY. CHAPTER VIII tite muscles and musoular action.—Continued. The muscular system, like other parts of the body, possesses the faculty of conservation and self-reparation. When a muscle is exhausted and lacerated, the circulating blood deposits the neces- sary elements to preserve and repair it. A muscle has the inhe- rent power of applying the elements of the blood to the renova- tion of its substance, and the reparation of its injuries ; and in a state of healthy action, easily effects the conservation, and re- stores the integrity of its lacerated parts. During the juvenile growth of the muscles, the same animal law ;3 established for their enlargement that in old age is re- quired to preserve them from decay- In both cases, the circu- lating blood supplies the necessary elements for growth and pre- servation, The order, promptitude, and facility with which the muscles perform their vital functions, and extract from the blood the individual elements only that are required for their neces- sities, is one of the unanswerable arguments, that the Author of our existence is not only an infinitely powerful, but a provi- dent Being. The muscles, like other animal substances, are liable to dis- eases that sometimes require the aid of operative surgery. Surgical operations reflect very little honour on the art ot heal- ing ; because they prove that the healing art is still imperfect. If it were perfect, there would be no necessity for operative surgery ; yet sometimes, great operative surgeons appear to be prouder of having successfully performed a great operation, than of having accomplished the cure of a morbid disease by the materia medica. The cure of a morbid disease reflects more honour on the healing art, than the successful performance of a great operation. Sometimes we might almost be tempted to conclude, that the end and aim of the great operative surgical mania, is to ascertain secundum arteni, with how little of his corpus a human being may be made to exist. Yet when the healing art pronounces a cure impossible, there is no other alter- native even for the most humane surgeon, than to operate ; and it is better to part with an incurable morbid portion of the body, and preserve life, than permit it to remain and destroy our ex- istence. , Some men have large powerful muscles ; others puny and weak. There are fixed animal laws that regulate their growth and preservation ; and by obeying them, any person may attain the muscular maximum that belongs to his constitution. I he hardy mountaineer climbs his native hill with vigour, elasticity, and ease, chases the nimble goat, and pursues the bounding deer, unfatigued for a long summer’s day. The delicate lady, confined to the city, and nursed in effeminacy, pants for breath when travelling on the green lawn after half an hour's Lillipu- tian journey. The too early confinement of children at school, super-exercises and injures their brain, and renders their muscles puny and debilitated. The muscles of the hardy peasant child, accustomed to exercise, are larger and more powerful than those of the less fortunate girl confined to factory labour. Children should be allowed the free exercise of their muscles, if we would