319 ART, SCIENCE, MECHANICS, AND ENGINEERING. of the skin were blistered by the action of the sun’s rays as in ourselves. Beneath the rete mucosum is the true skin, the dermis or corion. This is of very considerable strength and even thickness, especially on the back; it is of a close, dense in- terwoven tissue, and abounds with nerves and blood vessels; its connection with the filamentous or cellular tissue beneath it, is of course intimate, and necessary for its vitality; it is here, of course, that the fixed surface of the skin exists. It might be supposed sufficient for the purposes of this work, to have described the skin or the integuments of the body as above; but it is from a want of more minute elemen- tary knowledge, that many popular notions are not only in- correct but absolutely hurtful. The very term surface leads many to suppose that the mere integuments cannot be of much consequence, at least anatomically and physiologically considered. Now this is a great error, for the robe or ex- ternal covering of all animals has characters of the greatest constancy, and as accurately define the animal as any other structure whatever. On the free surface then of the integuments we observe folds, wrinkles, and furrows ; those in the palm of the hand were made the subject of a silly art called Palmistry, derived from oriental nations—from races of men whose minds were either not properly educated, or who from nature have re- ceived a bias towards a belief in mysteries and follies of all descriptions—who have no natural love for scientific truths, and who cannot be made to comprehend the true physical relations of cause and effect. These folds or wrinkles are of several kinds; the larger, are observed around the joints, the smaller, over the whole surface of the skin. The folds called wrinkles are produced by the action of muscles placed immediately beneath the skin, as on the forehead and temples. The wrinkles of old age, in various parts of the body, are produced by emaciation and the loss of the retractile power of the dermis or true skin. A difference in colour is, however the most re- markable circumstance in the appearance of the integuments of men, and has strongly arrested the attention of all observers. The negro race has existed, as it now is, from the most re- mote antiquity, as may be proved by a reference to the paintings on the tombs of the Egyptian kings. If a portion of the human integuments be divided and re- moved from the body, so that the cut edge may be examined with a magnifying glass, certain structures will be seen, which, for the convenience of description, may be arranged under three heads; namely, epidermic parts ; 2d, dermis or corion ; 3d, subcutaneous cellular and adipose layer. We shall speak of these layers in the order just enumerated. Anatomists have been forced to have recourse to the skin of the whale, the elephant, and of many other animals, in order to determine by analogy the na- ture of parts, which, from their tenuity and delicacy, could not be well made out in the human skin. 1. The epidermis or cuticle, marked b, is the outermost of alltheepiderinic parts of the integuments ; it is to it that the term scarf-skin is al- ways given ; it is semi-transparent, and in some measure a horny layer moulded upon the surface of the true skin, over all the papillae or nervous and vascular prominences, like a coat of varnish, effectually protecting the tender and delicate surface from the action of exter- nal agents. The epidermis is represented at b fig. 1, and a b fig. 2 ; but the reader, rightly to understand its structure, and that of all those to follow, must handle and examine them for himself; otherwise, extremely erroneous notions are sure to be the result of studying or learning any material object from books and figures alone, neglecting the invaluable and indeed essential knowledge we derive through the use of the fingers. The very instrument, indeed, which we now ex- Fig. 1. Skin of Negro. a, The cutis, dermis, or true skin; b', the pigmentum,or colouring matter of the lymphatic network; b, the epider- mis or cuticle. Fig. 2. Section of the skin of the finger magnified 14 times. amine, the instrument of touch, is that by which and through which, we derive by far the greatest part of all sound know- ledge of the material world. When the epidermis or scarf-skin is stripped off, its inner or deeper surface is observed to be covered with little pits or depressions; in the skin of the negro, the colouring mat- ter occupies these little pits, but still is said to be found in greater abundance between the nervous papillae than upon them. But the scarf-skin seems here also to be somewhat coloured in the negro. When the scarf-skin is being removed from the parts be- low, a great number of fine transparent filaments may be ob- served, which are torn through in separating the one from the other ; these filaments are supposed to be vessels which pour out the perspiration, whilst others have supposed them to be merely the lining membrane of other tubes, more lately described. A great objection to this view of the filaments alluded to above, is that they may be seen with the naked eye, w hereas the spiral tubes of the sudoriferous glands, whose lining membrane they have been supposed to be, can only be seen with a good glass; fifty of these orifices open within the space of a square line. Beneath the epidermis, properly so called, may be seen, in the above figure, the other epidermic parts which are still called rete mucosum, pigmentum, &c. These parts which much resemble the scarf-skin, form sheaths over the nervous papillae, as may be seen in fig. 2. The epidermic parts are of vast thickness in the skin of the whale, and it is on it that the greater num-' ber of discoveries have been made, with reference to the integuments generally. All these layers are in- sensible, and by some are called in- organic ; they are probably merely' not essentially vascular. Thin, flattened, horny corpuscles are de- posited on the surface of the true skin ; these hardened on the surface form the epidermis properly so called, while the corpuscles be- neath form the pigment and rete mucosum. Fine scales are continually being thrown of!' by the epidermis and replaced by the subjacent ones. The pigment seems to exist in all varieties of the human race, varying however greatly in the depth of colour; it ap- pears partially even in the white races, and has been ob- served in them to be fully as dark as in the negro, but con- fined merely to a small portion of the skin ; hence has arisen the opinion, first maintained by Azara, that such accidental varieties might extend, become hereditary, and thus explain the colouration of the negro and other dark races; this opinion is merely hypothetical. The dermis, or the true skin, is situated beneath all those parts, and is properly the basis of the integument. It varies very much in thickness, being thickened usually on the back, and over the cranium ; also on the palms and soles of the feet. On the deep surface—that namely by which it adheres to the living structures beneath it—a number of conical depres- sions mav be observed ; into these project masses of fat. When the skin is separated extensively from the parts be- neath it, it is apt to slough or die, for a very obvious reason, being then cut off from the sources supplying it with blood. When examined microscopically, it is found to be cellular and fibrous, and is resolved into gelatine by boiling, and by tanning is converted into leather. The elasticity of the dermis seems to depend more on the arrangement of its texture, than on the intimate nature of that texture. The papillae are those 0 0 a b, The epidermis; c, colouring matter or pigmen- tum; d, rete mucosum of Malpighi; e, the dermis or true skin : f subcutaneous and adipose tissue; g g, su- doriferous glands; h h, spi- ral canals going from these glands, and terminating oil the surface at i i.