ART, SCIENCE, MECHANICS, AND ENGINEERING. posing the matter which gives them colour, and of which hydrogen is reckoned the basis. For the same reason, it is used successfully in destroying malaria, and putrescent miasmata, which all contain hydrogenous matter as their base, and which is seized upon by this energetic element. It is the same affinity for hydrogen which causes the evolution of oxygen gas from water which has absorbed chlorine; the chlorine combines with the hydrogen of the water forming hydrochloric acid,* and liberates the oxygen, the other element of the water. It was stated that the grand source of chlorine is the water of the ocean. This is an enormous solution of salt—a uni- versally known and indispensable article of consumption with the human race,, an article indeed which seems to be essen- tially necessary tb maintain the body in a healthy condition. Now this salt is a compound of chlorine and a metal ; it is in fact a chloride, consisting when pure of 60 of chlorine and 40 of sodium in 100 parts ; and whether it be obtained by evaporation of sea water, or be dug out of the salt mines of Wieliczka or Northwich, it has the same composition. It is never indeed found unmixed with foreign matters, but it may be separated from all impurities by appliances of chemistry, which it is not our business in the mean time to describe. To separate th<j chlorine from the metallic base with which it is in combination in the salt, it is only necessary to devise a means of subverting the affinity which retains them in union. This can readily be done in the following way : in- troduce into a glass retort a mixture of three parts of com- mon salt, and two parts of black oxide of manganese, and pour upon the mixture two parts of sulphuric acid diluted with its own weight of water, (A tubulated retort should be used, and the acid should be added at two or three different times to avoid too violent an effervescence.) The heat of a spirit lamp being dpplied to the retort, the gas will be expel- led, and may be collected in bottles inverted in a's little water as will answer the purpose, in order to prevent waste by absorption.. This is a method of obtaining chlorine from common salt; it is that practised by the manufacturer upon an extended scale ; but chlorine may be obtained more con- veniently in small] quantity by pouring hydrochloric acid upon black oxide jof manganese in a retort, and applying a gentle heat as before. In this case, a portion of the acid is decomposed, and the element chlorine passes off in the form of a green pungent gas. Chlorine enters into numerous highly important and inter- esting combinations ; but we must turn from them in the meantime, to indicate the leading features of the allied ele- mentary body Iodine—I his element is obtained chiefly from sea-weeds, hut was discovered accidentally in 1812, by M. Courtois in the mother-waters of his saltpetre works, and it has since been found in combination with potassium and sodium, in many mineral waters^ such as the brine spring of Ashby-de-la- Aouch. Kelp contains it abundantly, as do also the mother- waters of the salt wbrks upon the Mediterranean Sea ; and it has been recently found in combination with silver in some ores brought from the neighbourhood of Mexico. Iodine may be procured by drying and powdering common sea-weed—sponge for instance—and heating it with sulphuric acid ; a violet vapour rises, which if received in a cool vessel, will condense on its sides, and form scaly crystals of a some- what metallic lustre. These crystals are the substance in question ; and it is named from the violet colour of the vapour. It is most economically procured however from the mother-water of kelp, as furnished by the soap manufacturers, w 10 employ that crude alkali. The water is mixed with an excess of sulphuric acid in a retort, and exposed to heat, 549 mi-mu.,.,l r~ in somochcmic.il works, still called muriatic acid, a name rTimlnts.fl -01? . -° ^ marine acid, which, for popular use, was n'finnr nf salt. These names, as we shall see, are not ?p™te' ‘be great source of chlorine being the salt of the ocean ; ed hv "1 ‘be text, and which is now very generally adop- ^ L mats, is better, in as far as it indicates the composition of the when the violet vapours of iodine distil over, and may be condensed as already described. Iodine is always solid at atmospheric temperatures, but it slowly volatilizes, emitting a peculiar offensive penetrating odour, somewhat like chlorine. It fuses at 220°, and boils off rapidly at 350°. It enters into many combinations: two ot them, the iodides of potassium and iron, are used in medicine, and another, the per-iodide of mercury, is a brilliant red pigment, but somewhat evanescent. But the chief use to which iodine has as yet been put in the arts, is the detec- tion of a starch, with the watery solutions of which it forms a compound of a deep purplish blue colour. Bromine.—If a large quantity of sea-water be boiled down, and the common salt removed until no more freely crystallizes, we obtain a residual liquor, which salt manufac- turers call bittern. An abundance of it can be procured at salt-woiks, where it is often thrown away as useless. It con- tains in solution a salt of exactly analogous constitution to the chloride of sodium, but in which another non-metallic element is in combination with the sodium. It may be separated by passing chlbrine gas through the liquor, which, from a superior affinity, combines with the metal, and a deep brownish yellow colour is immediately developed, and a peculiarly strong and disagreeable odour. The liquor being then heated in a retort, red vapours will pass over, and fill the receiver, and, with proper means, a few drops of a volatile liquid of a hyacinth red colour may be obtained: these are bromine. At ordinary atmospheric temperatures bromine is a liquid ; a little below 0° it congeals and is very brittle, and it boils’ at 116j“. It is poisonous. Applied to the skin it colours it deep yellow, and corrodes it. It is soluble in water, alcohol, and particularly in ether: with water it forms a crystalline combination at 32°; thd crystals are octohedrons, of a red tnd, and continue permjanent, even at the temperature of 50°. It produces a deep orange yellow colour when mixed even in small quantities with cold solutions of starch. It combines with silver, forming with it an insoluble bromide, which, being in contact with organic matter, is quickly blackened by exposure to solar light. On account of this property, bromine is highly valuable in photography. Thus, it a sheet of paper be washed with a very dilute solution of the bromide of potassium, and then with a solution of nitrate of silver, the salts are decomposed, and bromide of silver is formed in the substance of the paper. The paper remains white if kept in a dark place, but is immediately blackened by exposure even to diffuse daylight. It is decidedly the most sensitive of the photographic papers. Fluorine.— This is the name of an elementary body which has not hitherto been obtained, at least in satisfactory quan- tities, in a separate state. The assumption of its separate existence may therefore be considered as somewhat hypothe- tical, although supported by the strongest analogies. Its powers of combination are supposed to be so exalted, that no body has been found capable of subverting its affinity. Pro- visionally, a name has been given to it. It is met with as a component of a few minerals, but the only one of these found in abundance is fluor spar, otherwise called Derby- shire spar, and which, analogically, we regard as a fluoride of calcium—that is a compound of fluorine and calcium, the metallic base of lime. ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY. CHAPTER XV. respiration.— {Continued.') It has been already stated, that when the blood has got into the veins, and arrived at the right side of the heart, it has lost its bright red colour, and has become purple, or almost black; it has ceased to be arterial, and has become venous. The cause of this dark colour is the quantity of charcoal or car- bon which it has received in its passage through the intimate