487 ART, SCIENCE, MECHANICS, AND ENGINEERING. vr ed indefinitely with the same inclination round the axis pass- ing through the centre oi It will be in fact a series of such planes joined end to end, and forming a regular spiral. It is easy to conceive a cylinder passing up through the spiral, upon which it would lie close at every point; and further, conceiving the cylinder and the spiral to be of one piece, we arrive at the ordinary idea of the external screw, as here shown. It consists of a square thread cut upon a cylinder, running continuously round it, and always preserving the same angle with the base. Applying the same idea to the upper plane d e f in the fourth last figure, it ought also to be extended circularly, having the same circumference as the under plane a b c, so that the threads of the spiral formed by it may lie between and upon the threads of that plane. If we also con- ceive this spiral fitting dose within a hollow cylindrical space, and forming one piece with the body in which the space is formed, we have a correct idea of an internal screw.* Screws are alsb constructed with threads, of which the cross section is triangular, and b c others have circular sections, as at b and c. According as the threads are formed, the screw is termed square-th readed, ang ular-threaded, or round-threaded. Whatever be the form of the thread, the longitudinal distance between corresponding points in contiguous threads of a screw is termed the pitch of that screw. I For instance, in the l— annexed sketch of the screw of a screw-press, the distance a b be- tween the same sides of two threads is the pitch; and it is evi- dently through this height that the weight ^ w is raised during each $ revolution of the point p to which the power is applied. This height is in fact that of the plane of which the thread a b is formed. Now, in reference to the fourth lastfigure, it was stated that the power p is to the weight w in the same proportion as a b is to the circumference, which the point l, or p in the above figure, would describe in one revolution. On this principle, there- fore, the power of the screw may be calculated. Suppose, for example, the distance between two threads, a b, of the screw, is one inch, and the circumference which the point p would describe in a whole revolution would be nine feet, or 108 inches—‘the length from p to the centre of the screw being about three feet—then a pressure of one pound at p, would sustain 108 lbs. at w. The friction of the parts of a screw is, however, so great, that, in practice, the effect falls far short of the calculated effect. It is not to be supposed that the screw is solely applied to the raising of weights through considerable heights. The screw is employed to overcome every variety of resistance, and to communicate sustained motion in any direction. For example, in Whitworth’s planing machine, the table receives its alternate longitudinal motion from a revolving-screw ; and by the same means the slide-rest of his self-acting lathe is moved along its bed. * The external and internal screws are otherwise known by the appella- tions of male and female screws. The coarseness of the analogical derivation of these terms, as well as their being quite unnecessary, ought to expel them from common use. J For the purpose of communicating motion to any piece of machinery, the external screw is made of a length necessary to give the required traverse, while the internal screw is generally quite short, embracing half-a-dozen or more threads of the external screw. In this case, the internal screw is termed a nut, and the other is named simply the screw. In their application to machinery, either of them is made stationary iu reference to the other, the latter being the one that receives the motion. Thus, in the common screw press, before noticed, the nut c is fixed on the sole of the press, and the screw bears upon it, while rising after the weight w. Again, in the clamp represented at fig. 1, the internal screw is fixed, and the external one move- able ; while on the other hand, at fig. 2, which is a sketch of a micrometer screw, it will be noticed that, while the screw is confined by a collar at the neck, the nut slides along the screw between two checks. The power in the screw, is greater as the inclination of the plane forming its thread is less, and as its radius is less in comparison to the length of the lever at the ex- tremity of which the power is applied. Hence, by length- ening the lever by which the power acts, or by cutting the threads sufficiently fine, the effect of the screw would appear capable of being increased to any extent. It is, however, often practically inconvenient to increase the length of the lever employed; and if the threads of the screw be cut too fine, they become too weak to support the pressure. To remedy this inconvenience, a contrivance has been in- vented, somewhat similar to one for a like purpose, de- scribed under the “ wheel and axle.” A screw is cut upon the outside of a cylin- der a b, and a correspond- ing internal screw is cut in the nut d. The cylinder a b is also hollow, and an internal screw is cut in it, corresponding with an ex- ternal screw/cut upon the cylinder m, which is attach- ed to the sliding part of the press e v. j If the screws upon the cylinders a b and m had just the same pitch, and the up- per screw turned by the power p; then as the cylinder m would/rise just as much as the cylinder a b would fall, the sliding-board e f would be stationary. But if the pitch of thread on the part m be less than the part a b, then, in each revolution of p, the board e f will be depressed through a space equal to the difference of the pitches of the two screws. It is evident that this difference may be as small as neces- sary without weakening the screws. And there is an equili- brium when p : w : : as the difference of the pitches of the threads is to the circumference described by p. Other applications of the screw are made in machinery in the instance of the worm-wheel, and worm or endless screw, in which the screw’ by revolving, communicates a greatly re- duced motion to the wheel. ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY. CHAPTER XIV. the circulation.—(Continued.) Having examined the central organ of the circulation, let us now turn up the conduits by which it pours out its con- tents, and those by which it is fed.