366 THE IMPERIAL JOURNAL OF 2d, Angular movement is seen most simply in the joints of the fingers, where no other motion is permitted but that of flexion and extension. At the joint between the metacarpal bone and first bone of the finger, adduction and abduction are also per- mitted ; that is, approaching to or removing from its next neigh- bour. 3d, Circumduction consists in the performance of these four motions consecutively, flexion, abduction, extension, adduc- tion, as is seen in making the point of the fore-finger describe a circle, having the metacarpal joint for its centre. 4th, Rotation is the rolling of a bone upon its own axis, as is seen in the hip and shoulder-joints, the upper end of the radius in pronation and supination of the hand, and the articulation between the first and second vertebra} of the neck, when the head is turned shortly round from side to side. The head is set upon the first vertebra of the neck, through the medium of a couple of joints, admitting of only flexion and extension. When a quick short nod of the head is given, the motion takes place here. The first vertebra of the neck is a circle moving round a pin projecting from the second vertebra— thence called the axis—carrying the head round with it, in the quick short movement of looking sidewise. The only complete dislocation that takes place in the spine is at this joint, in conse- quence of the destruction of a ligament which keeps the bones in their places. When this happens the weight of the head makes it fall forward, carrying the first vertebra with it, and the spinal marrow is so nipt between its ring and the projecting pin of the second, that the sufferer dies as surely and as instantaneously as if his neck were severed by the axe of the executioner. In a man, who is hanged, too, this is generally the cause of death ; not, indeed, in one who deliberately suspends himself in his own handkerchief; but the criminal who is launched from the drop, with a fall of several feet, and dies instantaneously, has his neck dislocated, while he who struggles perishes from suffocation. The articulation of the lower jaw, with the temporal bone, is almost completely a hinge-joint. The upper end, or condyle, of the jaw-hone is covered with cartilage, and so is the socket, and the two bones are tied together by side ligaments. Besides, there is a moveable cartilage in the joint which accompanies the condyle of the jaw in its motion. Notwithstanding all these appliances, the jaw is sometimes dislocated, slipping forward 08 the eminence upon which it gets when the mouth is opened. When this accident takes place, which generally happens from a violent yawn, the patient is left with his mouth wide open, and has not the power of closing it, presenting a very ludicrous figure to his. companions, though his situation is to himself sufficiently uncomfortable. After this dislocation has happened it is exceed- ingly liable to be reproduced, in consequence of the torn liga- ments never properly uniting. The story has been often enough told of the surgeon who was dissatisfied with the scurvy fee offered him for reducing a gentleman’s jaw, sitting down and exciting a yawn by telling a tiresome story, and opening and shutting his snuff-box lid, till the patient’s jaw opened and slipped out again, and then refusing to replace it until a handsome honorarium was laid upon the table. Strong bands of fibres tie the collar-bone to a slight hollow in the upper corner of the breast-bone ; the motion is very free, and to render it the more so, a moveable cartilage is interposed between them. This joint is very rarely indeed injured. The collar-bone and shoulder-blade are very firmly bound together so as to move as one piece, and yet a slight yielding is permitted, otherwise, as they stand at right angles to one another, fracture or dislocation, about this joint, would much more frequently occur. The shoulder-joint is of all others the most frequently dislo- cated. This results partly from its form, and partly from its being more exposed to violence—since every fall, whether upon the shoulder, arm, or hand, has a tendency to displace it. The cavity on the shoulder-blade is so small and shallow, that the round head of the arm-bone is laid not in it, but on it ; its barrel- shaped capsular ligament is strong, but loose, so that the bone depends for being retained in its place, upun the muscles which surround it ; and if these be overcome, or taken by surprise, par- ticularly when the arm is raised above the head, the head of the bone is dislocated down into the arm-pit. It is, in general, re- placed without much difficulty, but is exceedingly liable to be thrown out again. The author recollects one man, who fell into fits occasionally, whose shoulder-joint he saw dislocated, and as- sisted to reduce, three times, on three successive days. The shoulder-joint admits all the varieties of motion described in a preceding paragraph. The elbow-joint is more complex than the shoulder. It is double in its motions, admitting of the flexion and extension of the fore-arm on the arm, and the rolling of the head of the radius. For the first motion it has two strong lateral ligaments, which maybe felt at the two sides, rendering it a hinge-joint ; and, for the second, the neck of the radius is confined to the side of the ulna by a collar in which it rolls. A synovial membrane covers the ends of the bones, and lines the different ligaments. It may be dislocated in many directions. Both bones of the fore-arm are, most commonly, thrown backward, as in consequence of a fall on the hand—then the arm is nearly straight, and cannot be bent. Sometimes the fore-arm is thrown sideways, either outward or inward, and sometimes the radius is dislocated alone—back- wards, forwards, or outwards. From its complexity it is also exceedingly subject to disease. The wrist is a hinge-joint, moving backwards and forwards, and also allowing the hand to be carried a little edgewise, out- wards or inwards. The lower end of the radius forms a socket in which the uppermost two bones of the wrist move, united so as to form an oblong ball. Two lateral ligaments confine the hand to the lower ends of the radius and ulna, and the whole joint is lined by a synovial membrane. This joint is almost never dislocated ; but it is liable to sprains, and to disease, pro- ducing occasionally the loss of the hand. Closely connected with the wrist-joint, although not actually forming a part of it, is the joint between the lower ends of the radius and ulna. Here there is a socket in the edge of the radius, which is made to revolve round the small lower end of the ulna which remains fixed, while the hand is thrown, alternately with its palm and its hack, forwards. The bones of the hand are not subject to dislocations, except at the joint between the first and second pieces of the thumb—a seemingly trifling affair ; but one which is extremely difficult to set to rights—so much so, that many of those who are the sub- jects of this accident, continue to go with the point of the thumb bent back all the rest of their days. The hip-joint consists of a deep socket in the haunch-bone, into which the round head of the thigh-bone is set. A capsular ligament, of great strength, of a barrel-shape, attached round the edge of the socket and to the neck of the bone, fixes it in its place. The opposed surfaces of the hones are covered with car- tilage and are tied together by an internal ligament. A new explanation of the use of this ligament has been given within the .last few years, from which it would seem that, as its attachment to the thigh-bone is on a higher level than its connexion to the bot- tom of the socket, the superincumbent weight rather swings from, than rests on, the head of the thigh-bone. The whole is lined with a synovial membrane. This joint, notwithstanding its strength, is subject to dislocation, principally on account of the long lever which the thigh-bone affords to any force acting upon it, so as to tear the head from its socket. The knee is the most complicated joint in the whole body. The ends of the thigh-bone and tibia are each covered with car- tilage, and in contact, hut neither of them is hollowed—so that the°joint does not depend for strength on its form, but on tho number and strength of its ligaments. Two of these are placed externally and internally—as in all hinge-joints—and seven others are arranged, in different positions, within and without it. The knee-pan is placed in front of it, and the whole is lined with a synovial membrane, which is the largest in the body hence the fever and extreme constitutional disturbance that arise when this joint becomes inflamed. It lies very superficial, being covered only by the skin in the greatest part of its extent; and hence it is very easily wounded by a cut or prick from any sharp instrument. It is never dislocated, except by such a force as destroys it altogether, and necessitates the immediate removal of the limb by amputation. The ankle is a hinge-jomt, having one lateral ligament on its inner, and three on its outer side. The upper surface of the astray galus, as has been already said (p. 297, ante), is like the half of a broad pulley ; it plays against the lower hollow end of the tibia, and is received between the two ankles, formed by it and too fibula. This part of the astragalus is narrower behind than in front, so that when the foot is at right angles to the leg, as wo stand on it, the broad part is between the ankles, and it is firmly fixed • but when the foot is extended, pointed downward, the 1