501 ART, SCIENCE, MECHANICS, AND ENGINEERING. , eye, &c. The sclerotic coat, or membrane, No. 1, is a firm | fibrous membrane, and forms about four-fifths of the external investment of the eye. Posteriorly, it is penetrated by the optic nerve, 17. In front it is joined by the transparent !i cornea, 3, which is received within it after the fashion of a i watch-glass: this is seen at 2. Just at the point of junction i is a ring of light-grey matter, 4, called the ciliary ligament. The choroid membrane, 5, lies underneath the sclerotic, and is essentially a vascular structure, and terminates anteriorly in sixty or eighty little processes, called ciliary, 6. Under- neath the choroid membrane is seen the retina, 7, which is I nothing but the expanded termination of the optic nerve, j Upon looking through the cornea, we behold a coloured circle : this is the iris, 8. This structure is muscular, and is , perforated in the centre by an aperture well known by the name of pupil. By the contraction of the fibres of the iris, !■ the size of the pupil can be changed, and is so changed according to the intensity of the light—being larger when there is little, and smaller when there is much glare. Of | course, this is done independently of our will. The iris is , suspended in a cavity', bounded in front by the cornea, and behind by the crystalline lens, 13. This is occupied by the aqueous humour. The space between the iris and the cornea is termed the anterior, 9, and that between the iris and the lens, the posterior chamber, 10. To speak exactly, | the aqueous humour is in the anterior chamber, surrounded by a very' thin membrane, 12, which secretes it. The lens is doubly convex, and perfectly transparent. Behind it is the i vitreous humour, 15, which fills up the posterior two-thirds of j the eye. It is surrounded by a thin membrane, which also ' forms a number of processes, projecting inwards, and divid- ing it into detached masses, 16, 16. Both the humours of i the eye are almost entirely composed of water, containing only about 2 per cent, of animal and saline matter, while the i lens contains 4‘2 per cent. The muscles of the eyeball are six in number, and, with one exception, originate at the back of the orbit, and are ; inserted into the sclerotic coat. These perform all the i motions of the eye; and it is -when one or more of them is ; contracted, that we have that form of squinting which can be relieved by an operation. The different motor nerves, aris- ing from the brain and entering the eyeball, supply these muscles. When the eye is turned towards any luminous body, whether it evolves light itself, as the sun, or reflects light, as almost all visible bodies do, the following phenomena take ' place. The ray of light which falls perpendicularly upon ! the centre of the cornea undergoes no refraction, but passes on through the transparent humours and lens to the retina. All other rays coming from the same object are refracted— first, when they enter the cornea and aqueous humour; then when they enter the lens, which has the greatest density and ! refractive power; and, lastly, wrhen they pass from the lens to the vitreous humour. All these refractions are toward J the axis of the eye, and hence all the rays meet about the same point of the retina where the ray which fell perpen- dicularly upon the cornea did. As before stated, as the rajs from a point form a focus, so do those from an object, or set of objects, form an image or picture upon the retina, which gives us the sensation we call sight. A little consideration will show that this image upon the j retina must be inverted, or upside down. Plate II., fig. 3, I represents two rays* issuing, one from each extremity of an arrow. These rays cross each other in the middle of the eye; those from a are brought to a focus at b, and those from j c to one at d. In fact, if we examine the eye of an animal I recency killed (for the coats and humours of the eye soon lose their transparency after death), the image can be seen j upon the retina in the position we describe it. It is not easy I to explain how it happens that we see the objects erect. It is not that the infant at first really sees everything the wrong way up, and learns his error by inference; inasmuch as in • \Ve only give two to render the diagram clearer; but, of course, rays W0l,Id proceed from all parts of the object. people, who, having been born blind, have obtained their vision at a mature age from an operation, no such thing has been felt, but they at once see objects erect. Some peculiar nervous arrangement, into which it is impossible to enter here, is probably the true explanation of this circum- stance. As the dissection of the fresh human eye is obtained with difficulty, and might even be unpleasant to many who may peruse this article, the writer recommends that in its stead the reader place before him the fresh eye of the sheep, re- moved from the head soon after death, and with a small knife, scissors, and forceps, he may, without the aid of any instruc- tion, acquire such a knowledge of all the structures as will suffice for his understa nding the functions of every individual part about to be spoken of. Let him commence with the back part of the mass coarsely removed from the orbit, and he will first observe the optic nerve, which has been cut across at the point where it passes from the orbit into the interior of the cranium, on its way to the brain, in which it terminates. If the dissector follows this nerve towards its other termination, viz., in the eye-ball, removing or cleaning and pushing aside the structures he meets with, he may pro- bably observe, and ought to examine, the muscles connected with the eye-ball; all these muscles were connected with the osseous orbit before the eye was removed from the orbit; they are the four recti and the two obliqui muscles; which all commence or are attached at the bottom of the orbit, or around the entrance of the optic nerve into that cavity, with the exception of one, the obliquus inferior muscle. Tracing each of these muscles forwavu, he will find that they terminate by a thin tendinous expansion inserted or attached to the eye-ball. The uses of these muscles may be here stated generally to be, to move the eye-ball in every direction; to roll it about with the utmost facility, and to direct the axis of the eye-ball towards any object we propose attentively examining. In this way the axis of each eye is directed towards the same object, and the parallelism of both eyes maintained. All these muscles are supplied with nerves, viz., the 3d, 4th, and 6th, and some filaments from the 5th pairs, and no doubt also from the sympathetic system of nerves; the reason why so many distinct pahs of nerves proceed to the muscles of the orbit has never been explained, neither do we as yet rightly understand the functions or uses of these individual nerves and muscles. Let the reader proceed with his dissection, and cutting away or laying aside these six muscles, together with the elevator muscle of the upper eye-lid, which he may also have observed at the commencement of the dissection, and lying- more superficial than the straight muscles, he will find a cushion of fat, with nerves passing through it in many direc- tions. This cushion of fat has also its presumed uses; the eye-ball, as it were, rests upon it, or is pressed against it by the muscles already spoken of: and it is said that when from disease or want of a sufficiency of food, this cushion has been absorbed into the general system, producing a remarkable hollowness in the eyes, the animal will certainly die. How- ever this may be, there is no doubt a state of extreme emacia- tion from which no animal can recover. Having cleared away this cushion of fat, the reader will next observe a set of strong muscular fibres closely embracing the optic nerve, and attached all round and very firmly to the eye-ball. This layer of muscles is peculiar to the lower animals, not being present in man; he need not therefore regard it, but cut it freely away, and clear at once all the outer surface of the eye-ball, observing carefully the point where the optic nerve enters the globe of the eye. The part he ought next to examine is the strong nerve forming the exterior of all the back part and sides of the globe of the eye: a white fibrous tunic of very considerable strength. Into the fore part of this tunic, which is called the sclerotic, is inserted a circular and perfectly transparent convex plate, (the cornea), like a window. Through this transparent lamina the rays of light penetrate into the interior of the eye-ball; a fine membrane, also transparent, connects this plate or cornea and the eye ball generally, to the eye-lids.