THE IMPERIAL JOURNAL OF 296 contents, and yet another in giving origin to the powerful muscles which move the lower limbs. The Head is placed upon the end of the spinal column, in order that the brain which is contained in it may be connected with the spinal marrow ; and upon its upper end, that the eyes which are set in it may enjoy the widest possible range. It consists of two parts, the cranium and the face ; the former for containing the brain ; the latter for the organs of sight, smell, and taste. The cranium is very nearly of the shape of an egg, the larger end being backward, and the smaller one forward; presenting thus the characters, and having the strength of a double dome. The upper dome is however stronger than the lower one ; and hence we find that when a man falls from a height on his head, the fracture is most frequently not at the part struck, but at the base, where it is completely out of the reach of the surgeon. The face cannot be compared to any known regular figure ; it is excavated by several cavities, one large one for the mouth, another of considerable size for the nose, and two smaller pyramidal ones for the eyes, called the orbits. The number of bones in the head is twenty-two. F. Frontal bone. O. Occipital bone. J. Upper jaw-bone. L. Lachrymal bone. P. Parietal bone. S. Sphenoid bone. L. J. Lower jaw-bone. E. Hole leading into T. Temporal bone. C. Cheek-bone. N. Nasal bone. The Cranium or brain-case is composed of eight bones, which are mostly of a flattened form, convex externally, and concave internally. The frontal bone forms the forehead, and the roofs of the orbits ; the occipital bone forms the back and under part of the head, and in this bone is the large hole through which the spinal marrow passes down from the brain. The two pari- etal bones meet in the middle above, and form the upper and lateral parts of the head ; in the centre of each is a protube- rance giving the greatest breadth to the head, rather farther back than its middle. The temporal bones are named from the Latin word tempus, signifying time, because on the hair cover- ing them, the traces of time are first manifested. They are placed one on each side, occupying the inferior lateral parts of the cranium, and extending into its base. In each is seen the funnel-shaped opening which admits the waves of the air to the drum of the ear, called the external auditory canal, to the edges of which the external ear is appended. The hard part of each, extending into the base of the cranium, contains the essential- part of the organ of hearing. The two remaining bones are placed at the base of the cranium, and belong equally to it and to the face. The ccthmoid or sieve-like bone is so named, on account of its upper plate being perforated with forty or fifty holes, through which the twigs of the olfactory nerves pass into the nose. A small part of it forms a portion of the inner boun- dary of the orbit, but this cannot be seen in the engraving. The sphenoid, or wedge-like bone is so named, not from any similarity to a wedge in shape, but from its being wedged in among so many other bones ;^£pr it is united to the other seven bones of the cranium, and to five of the face, all of which it in a great measure serves to bind together. The vault of the cranium is smooth and regular, where it forms a roof for the protection of the brain; the floor of it is divided into six pits or deep hollows, for containing the different lobes of the brain. Numerous holes exist in the base of the cranium, for the entrance of the nourishing arteries of the brain, for the exit of its veins, and for the passage of numerous nerves which are to connect the brain with the organs of the senses, and with the other parts of the body. The Face consists of fourteen bones; six pair, and two single ones. The two upper jaw-bones form the principal part of the face. They meet in the middle line, forming the arch in which the upper row of teeth are set, and extend backward, forming the principal part of the roof of the mouth. A process runs up from each, separating the cavity of the nose from that of the orbit. In order that the face may be lighter, the body of the maxillary bone is not solid, but excavated,—the cavity communi- cating with the nose, as will be seen in the description of that organ. The roof of the mouth is completed by the two palate- bones. The firm part of the nose, from its roof to its bridge, is formed of two small pieces, meeting in the middle, called the nasal bones. These are liable to be broken, or knocked in, by a blow, an injury which occasions great disfigurement. The opening of the nose in front is seen in the skull to be of an oval figure, bounded by the two nasal and the two upper jaw-bones. Bounding the lower and outer parts of the orbits are the two malar or cheek-bones, making the prominences on the sides of the face, which are so marked in the races of Celtic origin. At the inner sides of the orbits are two little bones of the size and shape of the finger nail, called the lachrymal bones, because they form the chief part of the canals through which the tears find their way into the nose. Forming the partition of the nose, is a bone resembling a ploughshare in shape, whence its Latin name vomer ; and in each side, within the nose, is a spongy bone, for the purpose of extending the olfactory surface. Finally, the lower jaw is a single bone, its dental arch equalling in size that formed by the upper jaw-bones, and containing as many teeth. The forepart of this bone is the chin, extending back from which, and gradually separating from each other, are its sides, which terminate at the angles, and from the angles the branches rise nearly perpendicularly upward, to be attached by moveable joints to the sockets in the two temporal bones. Though composed of so many pieces, the whole head moves as one mass on the top of the spine ; and the only motion that takes place between its parts, is the opening and closing of the mouth. This is done by the lower jaw dropping and being again lifted, while the upper jaw remains unmoved. This arrange- ment holds good in all beasts and birds ; it is only when we de- scend to the reptiles and fishes, that we find both jaws moving, as in the crocodile and the shark. The orbits are two cavities placed in the face, for containing the eyes. Each orbit is of a conical figure, the apex being be- hind, where the optic nerve enters it, and the base being in front; and it is much larger than is necessary for the size of the eye alone,—this delicate organ being cushioned on a quantity of soft fat, in order that it may move with the greatest ease in every direction. The inner walls of the orbits are parallel, while their outer walls diverge widely from one another, to give the eyes the advantage of as wide a range as possible, to accomplish which purpose we have seen that several provisions have already been made. , • t The Lower Extremities consist each of thirty bones. The tlngh contains a single bone, the largest in the whole body. It has a long shaft, from which a neck goes off at an obtuse angle, sur- mounted by a smooth globular head, covered with cartilage, which is received into the socket that has been described as ex- isting on the pelvis. Where the neck of the bone joins the shatt, there are two prominences which serve as levers for the attachment of strong muscles. The lower ends of the thigh-bones are large, and rest on the heads of the shin-bones. Their lower ends are much nearer one another than their upper ends, thus bringing the points of support underneath the weight of the body. The bones of the leg are two. The shin-bone is the inner and the larger, placed perpendicularly under the body,—it has a broad end above to articulate with the thigh-bone, and a smaller one below, to unite with the foot in the ankle-joint. One of its ridges is felt under the skin the whole way down, and is the part i usually known as the shin. The outer slender bone, called the fibula, passes from the upper end of the shin-bone to the lower: