ART, SCIENCE, MECHANICS, AND ENGINEERING. 651 that he touches two marbles, although he knows that only one is present.” There is an expression in the above quotation to which I would particularly advert, because some continental physiologists would seem to consider the circumstance as essential in the produc- tion of the phenomenon, whereas it is not; I mean the touching the marble with the edges of the fingers. Now, any portion of the lower surface of the finger answers quite as well, and it is this which seems to have escaped the notice of the continental physiologists generally, which renders the explanation they offer of this curious illusion unsatisfactory. The explanation generally admitted is as follows:—The mind refers involuntarily all sensations ex- perienced at different points of the body, to the position in which such points are usually placed. Now. the crossing the fingers does not prevent us feeling either of them in contact with the marble, as if they were placed naturally side by side. But in the habitual position of the fingers side by side, it is impossible that the outer edges of any two fingers be at the same time placed in sufficient contact with a single marble or other similar rounded body; and thns, when such contact actually takes place simultaneously, in respect to the two fingers, effected by the contrivance of crossing the fingers, then the mind, involuntarily believing the thing impossible, takes it for granted that two marbles, not one, must be present, and hence arises the sensation and perception of two distinct bodies. This is the explanation of the singular illusion we speak of, first offered by Condorcet, and main- tained afterwards by Miiller and by many others, and we be- lieve it is very generally admitted. But there lies against this explanation the seemingly unanswerable objection, that it is not necessary to touch the marble with the opposite edges or margins of the two fingers ; the rounded surface over the pulp suffices. There is something, then, in the crossing of the fingers which we do not understand. Another curious circumstance may be mentioned in connection with the illusion. If the middle finger be crossed over the fore- finger, which is the usual mode of performing the experiment, the surface touched with the end of the middle finger will seem to us to be most remote, although in point of fact the finger is at that moment nearest to us. Other curious phenomena have been adduced by physiolo- gists in support of Condoreet’s opinion. If by any cause whatever the lips come to be accidentally deformed, and if we then apply to them a body, a glass, for example, or cup, with whose form we are habituated, the mind will involuntarily refer the deformity to the cup or glass itself, whose curve will seem broken, thickened, or irregular. It has even been asserted that those persons who have had a new' nose supplied from the skin of the forehead, to replace one lost by disease or accident, will refer any irritation produced in the new nose, not to that particular part of the body, but to the forehead from whence the new nose was taken. Such re- marks require confirmation. To the same cause has been re- ferred the pains felt in the toes by those who had long pre- viously lost their limbs by amputation. By subtracting c x -j- b from each member of this equation, get ax — ex = d — 6; whence x = MATHEMATICS. PRINCIPLES OF ALGEBRA. Chapter VI.—Interpretation of Anomalous Solutions. Every equation of the first degree—that is, every simple equation —may be so reduced as to have all its signs positive,* and be of the general form. ax -{-6 = cx -J- d. * VTe can always change the negative terms of the equation into others which are positive, since we can always add any quantity to both members. 60. Anomaly 1.—Let it now happen that d is less than b, but a greater than c, there is then an impossible subtraction, d — b, in the numerator of this result. This shows that the solution' is irrational; and if wo examine the equation from which it is pro- duced, we find that, on the supposition made, it is absurd : for if a be greater than c, then is a a; greater than c x ; and if b also be greater than d, then is a x 6 greater than c x -\- d, and cannot be equal to it. This gives rise to these questions:—1. Can such an equation arise from a problem? 2. If so, is it the problem itself which is ab- surd, or the way of treating it ? 3. If the latter, how is the method of solution to be rectified ? Problem I. In illustration.—In the year 1853, A’s age is 40, and B’s 12. Required the date at which A’s age is three times that of B. This date must either be before or after 1853 ; that is, either 1853 — x, or 1853 x. Try the first case. Then, in 1853 — x, A’s age was 40 — x, and B’s was 12 — x, and the condition is 40 ■ - x — 3 (12 — x~) whence x = 36 — 40 which is impossible; and it is sufficiently evident that the equa- tion is not true; for 40 — x must be greater than 3 (12 — x) or 36 — 3 x. Now, try the second case, 1853 -j- x. Then A’s age will be 40 fix, and B’s will be 12 -f- x, and the condition is 40 -j- x = 3 (12 -f- x) whence 40 — 36 which is possible, and gives x = 2, an evidently true answer; for in the year 1853 -j- 2, or 1855, A’s age will he 42, and B’s will be 14, and 42 = 3 X 14. In this instance, then, the impossible sub- traction arose from our assuming a date before instead of ajter a given epoch. Problem II. In illustration.-—A and B are 100 miles distant from each other, and 55 and 45 respectively from P. They start at the same instant to meet each other, and travel 10 miles and 7 miles an hour respectively. At what distance from P do they meet? A Mj P M2 B 1 °. Suppose that they meet at M1; that is, let PM, = x. Then A moves through AM, = 55 — x in °° X hours. And B moves through BM, = 45 -j- x in X hours. But A and B travel the same number of hours, therefore the equation for x is 55 —a; 45fix , 385 — 450 —10- = —7 WhenCe “ = ‘ 17 which is impossible, and it is otherwise evident that the equation 1 2 • t . ,55 — x . 1 x 45 fix . fi x is not true ; for —is — 5^ — ^ ana ?— is = 6- -f- - 10 1 3 cc and ^2 — lb miis*' be less than 6 --f- - and not equal to it. 2°. Suppose that they meet at M2 ; that is, let PM2 =x. Then A moves through AM2 = 55 -j- x in X- hours. 45 x And B moves through BM2 =45 — a; in —-— hours. And these times being equal by the question, consequently 450 — 385 55 fi x 45 — x “To =—— "hence 17