ART, SCIENCE, MECHANICS, AND ENGINEERING. 317 ON THE INCIPIENT DISENGAGEMENT OF ELASTIC FLUIDS. By John Thomas Woodhouse, M.D. I have never seen or heard a satisfactory explanation of the well-known fact, that when a tea-kettle, with boiling water in it, is removed from the fire, the bottom is only moderately warm. It has been referred to like causes (substituting steam for vapour), as when spirits are thrown upon the skin, and a sensation of cold is produced, in which case heat is first given to the fluid, succeeded by a change in the state of the fluid. This explanation appears to me defective and unsatisfactory; and I will now endeavour to show where it is defective, and supply the defect. When the kettle boils, the water in it will raise the ther- mometer to 212° Fahrenheit; the fire is much hotter, and yet the hand which soon after touches it feels only a moderate warmth; in a short time the heat becomes intolerable—i. e., of the same heat as the superincumbent fluid. Now, admitting, when the heat of the bottom is becoming greater than 212°, that the water undergoes a change by its conversion into steam, and that the heat of the contents of the kettle is thus partly latent,—admitting that this would account for the bottom not indicating a greater heat than 212°, I con- tend it is unequal to explain why the bottom should be less than 212° : for the water is 212°, the steam under the ordinary pressure of the atmosphere is supposed to be212°, and the fire which was under it more than 212°. The object of this paper is to explain why the bottom, immediately on its removal from the fire, should indicate a heat less than 212°, and soon after a heat equal to that of the water upon it. Let w represent a portion of water. Let the sphere, whose radius is w r, represent the space occu- pied by the steam, into which this por- tion is converted by the communication \ / of heat. The heat of the steam filling this sphere would be 212°; but, in ex- plaining the object of this paper, I sug- gest that the heat of the steam may be less than 212°, and to establish this, I propose the following theory:— I assume, that when a portion of water is converted from its fluid into its gaseous state, a sudden expansion, or what maybe termed an explosion, happens; i. e., supposing the steam in its quiescent state, and under the ordinary pressure of the atmosphere, would occupy the sphere, w r, at the instant of its conversion, by its elasticity or momentum of its particles, it proceeds to fill a sphere whose radius is w r', which is greater than w r. Now, according to the acknowledged doctrine of latent heat, when water receives heat which converts it into steam, the steam under atmospheric pressure would occupy a space vary- ing with the quantity of caloric imparted to it. By the same doctrine of latent heat, if the same quantity of steam under the same pressure he made to occupy the greater space, w r', it would require a greater quantity of caloric; and supposing the change from its filling the sphere, id r, to its filling the sphere, lo r\ to bo effected mechanically by its elasticity, it would be covetous of caloric, and would take it from any substance which touched it. This theory will, I conceive, explain all the phenomena. A certain portion of water is converted into steam at the internal bottom of the kettle, which, in its quiescent state, under atmo- spheric pressure, would occupy the space, to r, but by its elasti- city, or momentum of its particles, at the instant of its conver- sion it occupies the space, w /, becomes colder than 212°, and thus takes heat from the bottom, reducing it below 212°, after the supply of heat from the fire has been removed. This re- duction of heat can only happen whilst the water is boiling; after the water has ceased to boil, it soon communicates its own heat to the bottom, which explanation accords with the plie- nemona. I cannot prove, by experiments, that when gas is liberated from its prison of a fluid or a solid, at the instant of its libera- tion it goes to occupy more space than it would do solely by the admitted laws of latent heat; but I suggest the following consideration, which may make this probable:—If a spring be fixed in a table, be bent towards the right, and afterwards re- leased, it does not merely go back to the place where it will ultimately rest, but, by its elastic property, it would go consi- derably to the left, and would pass its resting-place several times before it be still. May not the spring held down by the finger on the right side, represent or bear an analogy to gas confined in a fluid or solid; and may not its proceeding to the left of its resting-place, represent its expanded condition im- mediately after it has gained its freedom ? I must now mention another circumstance, which is closely connected with, and comes in aid of, the present subject. It has been observed, that on the first removal of any me- tallic vessel from the fire containing boiling water, the ebul- lition is increased. The solution may be thisThe cold air then surrounding and coming in contact with the outside of the vessel, by the subtraction of heat may cause its external surface to contract, and this may mechanically contract it internally, and so heat may be evolved. This explanation is nearly the converse of the previous one of the steam which has been given. There a chemical expansion first happens, fol- lowed by a mechanical expansion, by which heat is absorbed. Here, in the metal, a chemical contraction first happens, suc- ceeded by a mechanical contraction, by which heat is evolved. ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY. CHAPTER XXI. OF THE FACULTY OF SENSATION AND PERCEPTION, AND OF THE ORGANS BY WHICH MAN PERCEIVES THE PRESENCE OF THE EXTERNAL WORLD. The whole organs of man may be divided into two great classes —namely, those by which he is nourished and grows and re- produces his kind ; and secondly, those by which he perceives the presence of the external world, and the present and past order of things external to him, and by which he reacts upon them. This division of his organism or whole organization is not rigorous, and, therefore, not strictly philosophic ; but it has been found to answer all practical, physiological, and even psychological purposes. It explains very beautifully how the first set of organs are chiefly occupied with merely building up the frame of the body, and have therefore been called organic, in contradistinction to the name given to the other or second set of organs, which, by reason of their seemingly belonging as it were exclusively to animals, have been called animal. Thus we have organs of organic life, and organs of animal life. The first includes the organs of 1. Prehension, The lips. 2. Of Mastication, The teeth. 3. Of Insalivation, The organs forming the saliva. 4. Of Deglutition, Thecavityofthe throat called the pharynx. This cavity may easily be seen by7 looking into the mouth; it leads directly into the gullet. 5. Of Digestion in its widest sense, In the stomach, small and large intestines. 6. Of appendages of the diges- tive tube, Liver, spleen, and pancreas. 7. Of absorption of the chyle,.... The lacteal vessels. 8. Of circulation of the absorbed nourishing material — the chyle and blood, The veins, the arteries, the heart. 9. Of nutrition, which includes in some measure the divi- sions 8, 7, and 6, The ultimate distribution of these % essels, including the absorbents. 10. Of respiration, The lungs; to these may be added the kidneys, whose office is further to purify the blood. Now these organs construct the animal frame, but they