ART, SCIENCE, MECHANICS, AND ENGINEERING. 349 The human teeth in an adult amount in number to thirty-two, sixteen being placed in each jaw. These are divided into four incisors or cutting teeth, or front teeth—two canine or dog teeth—four tricuspid or smaller grinders or molars, and six grinding teeth, or larger grinders or molars. Each of these is divisible into the root, neck, and crown. The teeth of different animals vary con- siderably. The tusks of the elephant, being hard and com- pact, are called ivory. Carious teeth are tetracased teeth, on which a species of earthy matter takes place, and appears to be quite distinct from ulceration. The chemical analysis clearly points this out. A carious tooth, with a specific gravity T533, yielded Cartilage, 57-78 Phosphate of lime, 30 00 Carbonate of lime, 2-09 Magnesia, 2 05 Chloride of potassium, T25 Moisture, 9-45 BONES. The following table exhibits a comparative view of the chemical composition of various bony structures :— Cartilage, Phosphate of lime, Carbonate of lime Phosphate of magnesia Chlorides of potassium and sodium, Water, Silica, Bone. Human Ivory. Enamel. Bony Tumour. 35-93 25-38 7-84 21-12 51-12 5414 76-73 65-80 9-77 5-76 7 67 4-84 0-63 1-37 409 trace. 0-59 3-02 2-87 10-37 8-72 1 0-33 0-63 The tartar of the teeth is a familiar substance. It is said to form most readily in the mouths of persons who speak much, or who hold their mouths open. It seems to be de- posited from the saliva, as it contains similar ingredients. The best method of removing tartar from the teeth, or pre- venting its formation, is by washing the teeth every day with a brush, upon which may be placed a small quantity of very finely powdered chalk. HI.—Deglutition, or Swallowing. The operation of mastication is a voluntary act; but the next step, or that of deglutition or swallowing, is of a differ- ent character. So soon as the food is sufficiently reduced to a pulpy state, the natural impulse seems to be to carry it by the assistance of the tongue to the back part of the mouth. This is all the voluntary exertion that is required on the part of the individual. The instant that it touches certain nerves which guard the throat, with this object in view, they aie. excited, and carry the impression to the spinal marrow. This impression is conveyed or reflected by a different nerve to the point of excitement, and motion is the result; this motion being the contraction of the gullet, and consequent grasping of the morsel, which is quickly conveyed by this important canal into the digestive organ, the stomach. ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY. CHAPTER XXII. ON TIIE FACULTY OF SENSATION AND PERCEPTION—APPENDAGES OF THE skin—Continued. Structure and Growth of the Hairs.—The extremity of the !r f’,ri Ch ‘nserted into the skin, is contained in a sort ot lollicle. This hair follicle (in the annexed figure, e) is the organ which forms the hair; it is imbedded in the cellular tissue under the skin, and is prolonged to the surface of the 8km by a sort of membranous canal. The hair follicle con- Structure and Growth of Hair magnified. e, Hair follicle. g, Subcutaneous cellular tis- sue. c, c, Membranous pouch or sac. b, The hair. a, Papilla. /, The dermis. sists essentially of a pouch or sac, and a 'papilla. The mem- branous pouch or sac, c, c, has a narrow neck, and opens externally by a contracted opening, through which the hair, b, passes, without at all adhering to it. The walls of the sac are translucent. The inner surface of the sac, c, is smooth, not adherent to the hair, but separated from it by a reddish liquid. From the bottom of the sac— that is, its deepest part—a papilla (a) nervous and vascular, arises: the papilla is of course fixed at the base, for here the nerves and blood-vessels enter it; but on the apex, or upper part, it is free, and this free part extends nearly to the narrow orifice above spoken of; and, as is said, in the disease called plica polonica, it extends even beyond it. Now, upon this papilla the hair is formed: first, a conical horny sheath is moulded upon the surface of the papilla, as the teeth are formed over the dental sac or follicle; on the in- ner side of this another and another cone succeeds, thus ulti- mately protruding as the hair. Into each hair follicle, one or more sebaceous follicles pour their secretions; and it is gene- rally supposed that a very thin layer of scarf-skin lines the interior of the hair follicle. The disorders to which the skin is liable are extremely numerous; many of them dangerous and obstinate, and some alarmingly disgusting. Leprosy, for example, and elephan- tiasis, the former the lepra of the Greeks and Hebrews, the latter the lepra of the Arabs, are frightful and loathsome diseases, which at one time were found over all Europe. Even yet, the lepra of the Greeks and Hebrews, or common leprosy, is by no means unfrequent, and even the elephan- tiasis, a frightful tubercular disease, existed verv lately so far north as Shetland. The Hebrew and the Gipsy race are still subject to the common leprosy; and it is not an iin probable theory, that certain skin diseases are peculiar to certain races, just as it is said that certain intestinal worms are peculiar to certain races of men. In this way, these diseases may have found their way into the northern parts of Europe about the time ot the crusades, not by their being contagious, but by the progeny of intermingled races, But further observations on skin diseases would be quite mis- placed in a w ork of this kind, the proper object of which is to submit to the reader a concise but accurate idea of the structure and functions of the organs composing his own frame chiefly. We shall therefore conclude the history of this organ of sense, the organ of touch, with a few remarks on a disorder, not dangerous it is true, but exceedingly irksome and vexa- tious—we mean corns. Corns are hard, horny, generally conical-shaped bodies, developed in the epidermic parts, and more especially as it would appear in the rete mucosum; they seem to grow with the apex or point of the cone inwards, the base being turned towards the scarf skin; hence, when the pressure of the shoe acts upon them, the point is forced inwards through the quick and tender true skin, w hich it at last pierces, thus°react- ing upon the subcutaneous cellular tissue. It is this no doubt which causes such excruciating pain when pressure is made °vei a corn. 4 hey, probably, are natural to many persons, and do not seem to have been in such individuals caused bv tight shoes, or other mechanical means. During some variable seasons they are peculiarly troublesome. Their removal probably might be effected by repeated blistering and warm fomentations. The disease called bunions by many surgeons, is a dislocation of the first joint of the great toe from off the large head of the metatarsal bone supporting it. The