JOURNAL OF 334 THE IMPERIAL has the corner to which the arm is jointed, directed forward and outward, to let the motion of the arm be as free as possible, Fish. Frog. Bird. Deer. Bat. Ape. Man. while in the ape, it is directed more downward, because he walks on all his four hands. In the deer, and other quadrupeds, it is placed perpendicularly, because its only use now is to rest on the upper end of the arm-bone, transmitting to it the weight of the fore part of the body. In the bird and fish, it is elongated and narrow, because in them very little depends upon it. The collar- bone is not represented in any of the arms in the figure. We may remark, however, that while most perfect in man, it is wanting in most of the lower animals,^its use being to keep the shoulders separate, so that the arms may be crossed on the breast, to give a firmer point of resistance at the breast-bone, for anything to be pushed from, or pulled towards us, and to permit a free and sufficient extent of motion. Hence, it is found in those species only where the fore-limbs are much used for laying hold of objects, or for digging and scraping, as in the rat, the mole, the hedgehog, the squirrel, and monkey, up to man. In those who use them for scraping, striking, or tearing, though less freely, there is a loose bone like an imperfect clavicle, as in the cat, dog, bear, and lion. In those whose mode of swimming is by striking out, as the frog does, (for a frog is just like a man in his style of swimming), there are strong connexions between the shoulder and the breast-bone, serving for clavicles ; and in birds, who strike out the same way in flying, there are strong clavicles fixed to the breast-bone so as not to allow of any motion, but to give very firm attachments to the wings. A clavicle would, however, have been worse than useless to the cow or the horse. When in running down a hill, we chance to fall on the hands or on the shoulder, one of the most common accidents is fracture of the collar-bone, because this bone is placed between the arm and the breast-bone, and consequently sustains a great part of the shock. But when a horse gallops down a hill, or takes a leap, no fracture is sustained, and yet the shock is greatly more violent. The reason of this is obvious from inspecting its skeleton, where we find that its fore-legs are not connected to the trunk by bones at all, but by immensely strong fleshy muscles passing from the ribs back to the shoulder-blades, be- tween which the heavy body swings in safety. The bone of the arm is in man longer than the fore-arm, which is not the case in any other instance in the figure. Its head is round, so as to permit free motion in every direction—while in most other animals its motion is confined—being limited in birds and most quadrupeds, to moving forward and backward, in the act of progression. In the fish it is very short in comparison to the rest of the member, which is, indeed, altogether very small in proportion to the rest of the body. The fore-arm in the ape has the power of rotation, as in man ; and so it has in numerous animals who tear with their forepaws ; and in the mole and ant- eater, who make their way by scraping and digging. In the bird the radius and ulna lie parallel, and do not move upon one another; for there is no power of grasping enjoyed by it. In the bat, for the same reason, the radius alone reaches to the hand, the ulna ending in a delicate point, about half-way down. In quadrupeds, like the deer, which use the fore-leg only to rest on, the two bones admit of no motion ; and in some they appear almost fused into one. The bones of the hand vary very much, according to their offices in the different orders of vertebrate animals. The small round bones composing the wrist, are found with more or less modification in all. But the hand is formed perfect in man only. The ape, who comes nearest to him, has the thumb very short and weak, being scarcely longer than the metacarpal bone of the forefinger. In the bat, the pieces of the fingers are seen to be very long and delicate, for the membrane to be stretched on, which enables them to serve for wings. In the fish they are numerous, and placed close together, to form a fin. In the frog, for the same reason, they are webbed. In the bird they are few and short, while the metacarpal bones are long, to give support to the large feathers of the wing. In the quadrupeds with claws they are all placed side by side ; and those who have hoofs, as the deer, cow, and horse, have but one or two, according as the hoof is single or divided, placed nearly perpendicular, and walk, as it were, on the points of their toes and fingers, the part of the hoof which rests on the ground corresponding to the edge of the nail. In concluding the account of the skeleton, and of this parti- cular part of it, I cannot recommend a more interesting work than the Bridgewater Treatise, by the late Sir Charles Bell, on “ The Hand, its Mechanism and vital Endowments, as evincing Design in which the form, connexions, and relation to the rest of the body, and to the uses it is to subserve, are illustrated in a most beautiful manner, by comparison with the skeletons, limbs and habits of other vertebrated animals, both those at pre- sent existing, and those which have existed in former conditions of our globe, to whose state they were adapted. And I shall quote from him the following sentence, which he, in turn, quotes from Ray, an old writer :—“ Some animals have horns, some have hoofs, some teeth, some talons, some claws, some spurs and beaks : man hath none of all these, but is weak and feeble, and is sent unarmed into the world.—Why ? A hand, with reason to use it, supplies the use of all these.” The size of the skeleton varies very much, ranging from thirty-five inches to eight feet. The gigantic skeleton of the Irishman, O’Brien, preserved in the museum of the College of Surgeons in London, measures eight feet two inches. What is called the middle size in man, is about five feet four inches ; in woman, about five feet. When the bones have been cleaned and dried, the weight of an ordinary male skeleton ranges from ten to thirteen pounds ; of a female one, from eight to nine. In early life, when their animal material preponderates in quantity (see p. 269), the bones are full of bloodvessels, and comparatively soft, flexible, and springy ; and though liable to many serious diseases, they are very apt to escape the effects of injury. It is not common to meet with fractures in young chil- dren ; and sometimes their bones, bending rather than breaking, suffer that partial fracture which has been compared to a “ branch of a tree that yields to an attempt to break it while it retains its sap.” The power of repairing injury is proportioned to the full supply of blood at this period ; fractures are speedily re-united, and their effects so regulated by the subsequent growth of the bone, that permanent deformity is a very unfrequent occurrence. The osseous system cannot be considered as being arrived at maturity until a period long subsequent to the age of puberty ; most commonly somewhere between the twenty-second and thirtieth years. The bony tissue is now so constituted as best to answer its purposes in the bodily frame ; it is now least liable to disease ; and if fractures and other injuries be more frequent, it is only because individuals are now more exposed to them. The effects of such injuries are, in general, tolerably repaired ; but if deformity be the result, it is permanent; because the bone has now ceased to grow. As life advances, the osseous system undergoes many obvious alterations. The shape of some bones is altered, and the texture of all is somewhat changed, with an increase in the earthy material over the animal constituent—so that fracture is more apt to happen to the bones of the aged, from even a less serious fall or twist. When fracture has taken place, if the bone be kept at rest, the fibrin of the blood is poured out around it, from the small bloodvessels which have been torn. This fibrin attaches itself to the periosteum round the fracture, enclosing it as iq a bag.