COMMON TERMS USED IN COOKERY. 103 dipped in batter or enclosed in a case of pastry or potato and fried. Entree. A made dish served in the first course at dinner following the fish and preceding the Removes. Esfagnole. A rich brown sauce made from glaze, stock, vegetables, etc., forming the base of numberless brown sauces, as Yeloute does of white. Ericassee. A stew of white-meat served with sauce, generally enriched with eggs. Eume. Smoked. Glace. Iced—frozen. Glaze. Stock reduced by long boiling to the consistency of stiff jelly. It is liquefied by heat and used to brush over or “ glaze ” cold meats, such as tongue, pressed beef, etc., and also to enrich and colour gravies, stews, etc. Kromesky. A fine mince of meat or fish, sometimes whole oysters, mixed with rich thick sauce. Small portions are placed on very thin slices of cooked fat bacon, rolled, dipped in batter and fried. Larding. This process is generally applied to those meats which in their nature are somewhat dry and lacking fat, or which, from the method of cutting, are deprived of their proper portion of natural fat. Its object is to add moisture and improve flavour. The substance used is bacon, though the term larding is also applied to the insertion of vegetables, pickles, etc., for purposes of flavouring alone. Bacon, for larding, should be carefully selected ; it should be firm and dry, and cured without saltpetre, that giving a somewhat red appearance to the surrounding portions of meat. The fat only of the bacon is used, and it must be cut in strips parallel with the rind. When cut through the depth of the fat it is liable to break in irre- gular lengths owing to the grain. That lying close under the rind is the firmest and best, and its firmness may sometimes be increased by cutting some time before it is required and letting it cool and harden. The strips, which are called lardoons or lardons, must be of exactly uniform thickness, and of size proportionate to the article larded. All the four sides of the strip must be the same width, the ends being square. Larding needles are sold in sets of different sizes for different