- 12 — the attention of surgeons? It "was at the beginning of this century at a period when for fear of irritation the prescriptions of the old surgeons especially those containing alcohol were abandoned. Then, all of a sudden, a multitude of writings on purulent infection, which alone would fill a library, appeared. But this fatal complication of wounds and operations, is it a dis- covery of which modern medicine ought to be proud? Oris it not like diffuse suppuration or inflammation of synovial membranes one of the sad effects of the neglect of the practice of our ancestors and our masters ? We need not state our opinion; in our minds there is no doubt. We trust that thanks to the spirit of the times which is at last bringing back the medical profession towards therapeutical resear- ches, the question will-be speedily settled. To do this what is re- quired? Try these dressings on animals, try them upon men, we repeat it, try them upon men, and we do it without advising any rashness. One could scarcely accuse the surgeon of rashness who made use of agents which are found invariably useful upon animals, which are daily used by the uneducated and empirics, agents which the old surgeons employed and which modern surgeons inject into the peritoneum and other serous visceral cavities. We trust both for the sake of the progress of our profession and the interest of humanity that this question will be settled in accor- dance with our hopes and expectations. In this memoir we have confined ourselves to the consideration of alcohol and the alcoholic compounds, we do not by this mean to say that there were no other agents recognised by the old surgeons. On the contrary, in their prescriptions, especially for old wounds one sees in combination with alcohol a vast number of other sub- stances : resins, essential oils, pitch, incense, aloes, sal ammoniac, alun, blue vitriol, green vitriol. There is an art to study and recover. Indubitably alcohol and alcoholic compounds are the active agents in the prescriptions of the old surgeons for recent wounds and operations, and from the facility with which it can be obtained, its action on albumen, its influence on the plastic secretion and