— 8 — practised immediate enlargement of the wound. -Although we have obtained some cures, we are not able to draw any conclusions from our experiments because the injury to the animals was so great, that they soon died of the shock, still amongst those who died, Ave have never found anything in the wounded limb, except a cavity circumscribed by a false membrane, never diffuse suppu- ration. Simple wounds communicating with an articulation (treatment: suture, alcohol) have always healed by the first intention. Simple penetrating wounds of the abdomen have likewise always healed by the first intention during the first 24 or 36 hours. In simple penetrating wounds of the chest when air has pene- trated the cavity of the pleura, we employed the same treatment and obtained the same result. We have not operated on the lungs, pericardium or heart. We have effected wounds in the intestines longitudinally, trans- versely, obliquely (suture Jobert; aleohol). The abdominal walls were brought together by the quill and the twisted suture. Whe- never the suture was well mpde so as to prevent all effusion of fe- cal matter we obtained a cure. But when the matter penetrated, at that point where the lips of the wound were brought together, there were adherences between the lips of the intestinal wound and the abdominal walls. After inflicting simple wounds on the liver and having com- pressed it between our fingers, we obtained recoveries without any accidents (alcohol in the wound of the liver, suture in abdominal walls, alcohol). We dare not from these experiments predict a si- milar result in all cases, especially in man. But in these less favour- able cases, alcohol would be useful from its stiptic action and by determining immediate adherences between the parietal and he- patic layers of peritoneum and consequently preventive of peri- tonitis. In wounds of the bladder with an accompanying injury to the peritoneum (suture of the abdominal walls, alcohol), recovery. These experiments ought to be repeated after the operation of lithotomy. Alcohol, besides its beneficial action on other accidents