- 11 — operations, alcoholic compounds are contained. All these authors are unanimous in forbidding compounds of oil, fatty bodies, emol- lients, « les pourrissants » to revive the energetic language of Dio- nis. (Lessons on wounds of the scalp and the operations of tre- panning.) They did not, it is true, make use of the same language as we do. They did not say that their recipes insured the wounded, or the patient they had operated on, against all danger of diffuse erysipelatous inflammation or of diffuse suppuration of synovial membranes. These terms are not even met with in their works. This is a precise and anatomical language which these authors from the anatomical knowledge of their days could not have used. Do we mean by this that diffuse inflammations and suppura- tions of synovial membranes were unknown to them? Whoever examines their works will find these accidents plainly indicated. (Hipp., Wounds of the head. — Ambr. Pare, des Plaies, livre des Fraclures complique'es, etc. Only these accidents, which, in our days, have been the subjects of admirable works and descriptions, which are the bane of our wounded patients or of those who have been operated on, which make the surgeon tremble before he amputates even a finger, were to them rare and exceptional events. They even attributed them to dressings badly done or done too late. Their dressings with alco- holic preparations whether for wounds, or after operations, pre- vented these accidents, and this too, although their operations were, compared with ours, most imperfect. Nor were the ancients ignorant of purulent infection from wounds and operations. It is impossible to doubt it after reading some of their observations; but they were to them rare and quite exceptio- nal cases, which even astonished them, and on which they did not therefore dwell long, and it is remarkable that the majority of cases of purulent infection w ere not subjects operated on, but wounds in the head, that is cases which were badly dressed or done-too late. When was it that this dangerous complication of wounds (espe- cially of those of the scalp) and of surgical operations first engrossed