The sheaths of the tendons were affected, numerous ahcesses had formed and opened themselves spontaneously The result was se- veral fistulous openings. The finger was greatly deformed three times its natural size. From the tissues which were of a dark violet colour and of a fungous appearance, a fetid discharge was poored out. All movement was lost and I can compare it to nothing else than, if you will excuse the expression, a black pudding. I examined her with great care, at several intervals, and intro- duced a probe through the different openings; the bone was eve- rywhere denuded, and the abcetfses communicated together. I considered her finger irretrievably lost, and recommended an amputation as the sole means of cure. After many difficulties it was agreed to and the next day was fixed upon for the operation. The next day the patient sent to tell me that she had changed her mind, that she had rather die than loose her finger. 1 therefore concerned myself no further in the matter. Three or four months later I happened to see the same woman on some totally different business, when to my surprise the finger which I supposed would have been an « inutile pondus » to her, had almost recovered its normal from; cicatrisation w as perfect in all points, and the movements of flexion and extension although imperfect and difficult, were beginning to be reestablished; in a word the woman might be considered cured. I asked the meaning of it. She then told me that one of her friends, a hatter, I think, to whom she had related her misfortunes and had confided her fear of the operation, had undertaken and accomplished the cure in 20 days. His treatment was : « to hold the injured part for a quarter of an hour morning and evening in a bath of comp. tinct. of aloes (Elixir de tongue vie) and afterwards apply a dressing of charpie well soaked in the same preparation. The first bath caused a feeling of burning which however was sup- portable. From the second day the parts began to assume a healthier appearance, and cicatrisation advanced without any accident. This, as you can imagine, made a great impression on me. For- tunately it was not long before I had an opportunity of experi- menting for myself.