— 18 — It has been remarked to us that we have been very brief in our notices of the substances which can or ought to be added to alcohol in the treatment of wounds. To this, we have answered and might do so again that we did not wish to write a book; we have only wished to explain and reestablish the practice of the ancients (a thing which we look upon as a duty), and that for their numerous recipes we could only advise them to consult the authors themselves. Still in deference to the well intentioned observations, which have been made us, we will add a few words to what we have already said on that subject. In the treatment of recent wounds from operations, the ancients had arrived at using scarcely anything except alcoholic preparations (esprit-de-vin, eau-de-vie, vulne'raire) as we gather from the works of J. L. Pelit. We are doubtful whether the different substances added at all to the value of the alcohol. —Was their practice how- ever the same for old wounds with sanious secretions, wounds with gangrenous eschars or fetid suppurations ( as those from ab- cesses of the parotid or in the neighbourbood of the anus) in fistu- lous abcesses? No. Here we have resins, turpentines, goudrons, aloes, myrrh, almost alw ays added to the alcoholic preparations. Tt would be strange that this practice should have maintained itself so long, had it not had some solid grounds to rest on. The people of the Midi employ turpentine in these cases, and the practice is not modern: J. L. Petit writes : « In going to Spain, I saw in the country of Bordeaux an ostler, who, from the account given to me, appeared to have had a mali- gnant fever. It had been much neglected : the patient had been neither bled nor purged. About the tenth day a parotitis appeared, to which they had for twenty days applied nothing but homy mixed with a common sort of turpentine called goudrou (gou- dron) which is obtained from a fir which is very common in that country. Eight days after the application of this the tumour terminated by gangrenous suppuration. The flaps separated and left an opening through which the sanies ilowed and through which • a laudable suppuration was issuing. The patient was at the thirtieth .