— 6 — an operation, unhealthy liquids penetrate the open veins. These liquids can infect the blood and the whole system, without there being any pus either in the veins or in the lymphatics near the wound. This is the case with patients who succumb during the first few days after an operation or a wound (before the 7th or 8th). In these self same cases one can find after death no abcesses by metastasis, only apoplectic clots (noyaux apoplectiformes) or per- haps not even these. The fact is that the abcesses have not had time to form, but despite the want of abcesses the infection of the whole system, through the blood is perfectly manifested by the infected odour which exhales from all the organs and by the rapid putrefaction of the body. In other cases however where the patients have fallen victims to purulent infection we not unfrequenlly find pus in the veins or lymphatics near the wound. But is it the pus contained within the vessels which has infected the system? By no means. The infection of the blood preceeded the formation of abcesses and in no ma\ depended on it. Liquids from the surface of wounds, by penetra- ting the veins and remaining there for a longer or a shorter time, can determine suppurations within the cavity, but the general in- fection has preceeded these local suppurations, so that, in fact, in these cases also we must have recourse to the third theory, the theory of Mr Velpeau. Lastly one can easily understand that liquids can remain in the veins or lymphatics near the wound and no further infect or but slightly so, the rest of the circulating stream. In such cases the patient, if he succumbs, will not do so from metastatic abcesses, nor from purulent infection, but from suppuration of the vessels near the wound. In the spongy tissue of the bones especially, one sometimes sees an extended suppuration of the veins, which can of itself account for death without having recourse to any general infection. From what we have said on the theory of purulent infection, it is evident that alcoholic preparations, by rapidly coagulating the albumen of the blood, by instantaneously stopping the hemorrhage