(purulent infection, peritonitis), would here be preventive of in- filtration of urine. Wounds and operations of the scalp we have not as yet tried on animals, but if we consider that, in such wounds and operations, it is diffuse inflammation of the pericranium which we have to fear, or purulent infection due to the veins of the diploe or the sinuses opened widely through the mechanical action which the inspira- tion exerts in the advance of the venous blood, or diffuse and sup- purating meningitis owing to the looseness of the subarachnoidean cellular tissue, we cannot help admitting that alcohol would be ap- plicable here « par excellence. « But although we have no experi- ments of our own to refer to, we can invoke the clinical teaching of the ancients, who did not dread wounds of the scalp or the operation of trepanning half as much as we do. We have not had any opportunities of operating on the uterus, but we believe that here too alcohol would be of great service. In the first place, these preparations are here perfectly innocent . We know that Guenin-Ruleau after having successfully performed the csesarien operation, injected wine into the uterus, and put the alcohol vulneraire between the lips of the wound of the uterus and that of the abdominal walls. The vulneraire assists in healing the uterine and abdominal wounds. It produces immediate adhesion of the parietal and ute- rine layers of peritoneum, and is an obstacle to peritonitis. But the advantages of alcohol are not probably restricted to such cases as these. No one can have failed to recognize the analogy between the uterus just emptied of the products of conception and a vast, open, and recent wound. Here are veins widely open (ute- rine sinus), voluminous lymphatics which admit into themselves and the veins, matters secreted in the uterine cavity : thence pos- sibly purulent infection, thence the chance of abcesses, thence, perhaps, death with or without infection. Alcohol w ould probably prevent all those accidents which taken collectively bear the name of peritonitis. Of the alcoholic preparations we have chiefly made use of alco- hol, brandy, and alcohol vulneraire. Brandy appeared to us to be