— 5 — attributes purulent infection to suppurative phlebitis or angeioleu- citis. Pus, secreted by the walls of veins, or lymphatics, mixes with the blood, infects it, and through it the whole economy. 3dly. The third one, which in these modern times has scarce any other partizan than Mr Velpeau and might therefore be well ter- med the theory of Mr Velpeau, admits that liquids secreted at the surfaces of wounds, penetrate the still unclosed veins, and infect the whole system. It is not our intention to discuss these theories, others, far more competent than Ave are, have already done so. Let us only state which one we accept. We will not stop to dis- cuss the first. It has few partizans and further that is no theory which is a purely negative one. The second does not appear to us to bear investigation, after the objections Mr Tessier has raised against it (journal I'Experience, n° 50). All the efforts of the elder Berard in behalf of this classic theory have not been able to refute Mr Tessier's objections (article Veine du Diclionnaire en 30 volumes). The third theory still remains, this is the one we accept. It is the one which has the fewest partizans, but if suffrages are rather weighed than counted, it will not be found wanting in authority, for Mr Velpeau is its supporter. — Mr Velpeau, although admitt- ing this theory, does not, it is true, reject the second; but it has always seemed to us judging from his writings and more espe- cially from his teaching, that he gives this one the preference. This too is the only one which is admissible in those cases where there is no pus in the veins, cases which Mr Velpeau has shown are far from rare. Further, the second theory cannot be admitted, in those cases where there is no pus either in the veins, or in the lymphatics near the wound, we must then necessarily have recourse to the third. But even when there is pus in the veins and the lymphatics, near the wound. Is the second the right theory or ought we not to adopt the third? In our minds there is no doubt. The third theory is the only true one and is always true. From the first day of a wound or of