- 16 — A man came to me with his index finger crushed by a large stone, which he was trying to raise, falling on it. The soft parts were much torn, the hone and articulation were laid bare, but unhurt; the sheath of the flexor tendons were torn at several points, the vessels were bleeding profusely. This again was a case for immediate operation, so great was the injury to the part. Nevertheless I washed and bathed the finger with cold wather, in order to cleanse the Avound and stop the he- morrhage. I brought the parts together as well as I could covering the surface of the bohes, and kept the whole together by a small linen bandage of a spiral form, and dressed it with charpie soaked in cold water and ordered it to be often repeated. Two days after, the finger exhaled a fetid odour, the wound was of a palish grey colour with an ichorous discharge, the sphacelus threatened to invade the whole organ. I did not hesitate to substi- tute charpie soaked in the elixir de longue vie for the water dres- sing. It was applied fresh morning and evening. The next day an improvement in the wound was apparent. A rapid cure followed without any accident intervening or any deformity resulting. Since that occasion I have employed these means ahout 50 times, and I can add always with the same success. In very few cases has the inflammation been intense enough to require a suspension of the treatment. The principal cases are : lstly. In two vast wounds, the result of extirpation of a whole breast for a cancerous affection. They were dressed after the ope- ration either by the twisted or the quill suture. When this was removed, two or three days after, I applied the comp. tinct. of aloes. In both wounds by the next day a modification of the sup- puration was observable and cicatrisation was complete in from seven to ten days. 2dly. In three cases of reopening of the wound after amputation of the leg accompanied by an unhealthy discharge. 3dly. In several cases of whitlow. .(thly. In an unhealthy wound of 9 to 10 centimetres of diam. with sphacelus and loss of tissue from an enormous carbuncle of 4