(Blasoow W7 - K/3 Store 32118JIasgow University Library I ,38 SEP 199( H m 1996 * tf NOV 1996 14 NOV 1397 2 3 SEP 2003 I B FEB 1998 GUL 6COOKERY AND DOMESTIC ECONOMY, MES. SOMEEVILLE, (PBAOTIOAL TJBAOHEE OF THE AET), CONTAINING UPWARDS OF ONE THOUSAND CAREFULLT? TESTED RECIPES, EXPRESSED IN SIMPLE TERMS, SUITABLE FOR EVERY-DAT LIFE. FIFTH EDITION. LLUSTRATED WITH NUMEROUS ENGRAVINGS. GLASGOW: SOLD BY MRS. SOMERVILLE, 264 BATH STREET, AND TO BE hId OF THE BOOKSELLERS.) GLASGOW i UNIVERSITY LIBRARYPEEF ACE. In offering the present Volume to the Ladies of Scotland, the Authoress would respectfully solicit attention to the following introductory remarks. Amongst practical house- keepers it has long been matter of complaint, that in most books on Domestic Economy the useful has been so mingled •with the useless—the simple so confused by technicali" ties and defaced by Gallicisms—as to render such works well nigh unserviceable. If this charge be true, then we can partly account for the slow progress which the Culinary Art has made, and for the incessant murmurings con- stantly heawi in the family circle. To remove the causes of this comjDlaint, or, at all events, to lessen them as much as possible, has been the special care of the writer of this work. She has studiously avoided cumbrous phraseology, and technical obscurities. All the recipes and directions have been expressed in plain and every-da^ ^rms ; and an attempt has been made to combine the ( .at with the economical, under the conviction that in uiie cuisine, as such, there may be refinement without extravagai >e, and good taste without unnecessary expense. If she has suc- ceeded in this attempt, she humbly hopes that her little work may find its way, not only into the Halls of the rich, but also into the Cottages of the poor. Apart altogether from the character of the works referred to, there have been other causes for tl'ie tardy progress of Domestic Economy in these degenerate days. The finished education of too many of our fair sisters has seldomPREFACE. embraced the practical question about which we write. AccompUshmeuts have occupied too prominent a place m the curriculum of their innumerable studies. Years have been passed in acquiring a little of this, and less of that, while the beautiful "simplicities" of domestic life have either been ignored or completely neglected. This has not arisen from ignorance, or from want of a due appreciation of the importance of practical housekeepmg. Inexorable fashion, with its iron hand, has swayed their better judg- ment, and has substituted the Unreal for the Real. Why should there not be a judicious combination of the usetui with the refined ?-the education of the fireside, as weU as that of the school ? Right well do we know, that the thoughtless belle, whose ambition is limited to the baU- room, the very mention of cookery is odious ; but to the loyal heart of the genuine young housekeeper, whatever tends to cheer and brighten her home, and throw a ray of sunshine upon her dwelling, is a subject of anxious solici- tude. She has learned, under the maternal eye to cul- tivate those amenities of life, which bmd faithfu. hearte the more closely, and go far to lighten the cares and toils of active life. To her, the important questions connected with domestic economy are a first and not a last thov^t^ Like the Royal Lady who wears the crown of England and of India, she is not the less queen-like because she reigns in the kitchen, as well as in the heaits of her hoi sehold. To all such young " House Moth^-s is th^ little Volume dedicated. Should it prove hdpf^il m their "honourable service" and "labour of love. ' it« mission shall have been accomplished, and ii. Authoress amply rewarded.5 TIE YOUNG HOUSEKEEPEE AND HEE DUTIES. Many difficulties, real or imaginary, will meet the young Housekeeper on her initiation into the duties of her new- sphere of life, the early or late removal of which will largely depend on her j^revious training. To the sensitive and thoughtful, many of those " stones of stumbling" are exaggerated, and look mighty in the distance, but are rapidly dissipated by their own simjole determination to overcome them. The responsibilities of her novel posi- tion not uufrequently tell keenly upon the fears of the young "House Mother," whose sincere desire is to be a " good steward" to him who has crowned her queen of his home, as well as of his heart. Doubtless, she re- members that ancient picture of the typical wife, '' who looked well to the ways of her household, and ate not the bread of idleness," in whom "the heart of her hus- band did safely trust," and who " did him good, and not evil, aU the days of her life." Placing this before her, and sincerely trying to imitate so good an example, let her rest assured, that, with the Divine blessing, she will succeed. Bearing in mind that the " Bread-winner" has reposed implicit trust in her good management, she will do her best to make the most of her materials; avoiding, on the one hand, all waste- ful expenditure, and on the other, that narrow policy, which is HO often " penny wise and pound fooUsh." She will not forgot with what frequent disappointments and6 THE YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER. embarrassments mucli of that hard earned gain is pro- cured. She will not seldom offer her whole heart-sympathy to cheer, and her practical economy to encourage the laboiirs of him who finds all his enjoyment in the felicities of home. In personal attire she will be neat and tasteful, without extravagance. To tell her that dress is not essential to tiTie dignity, that rich adornments and gaudy jewellery are not the standard by which the real lady is judged, would be to repeat what she already knows, and what her inborn sense has repudiated. With regard to her carriage towards those placed under her in the domestic circle, here we need not tell her that real, and not imaginary dilficulties will sometimes disturb her peace, and ruffle the even tenor of her way. She must have heard many ominous and clamorous complaints against those individuals called "bad servants." Her ears have been assailed by the limitless abuse cast upon them, and she has been ready to confess, that instead of "helps," they have been only burdens, or necessary evils. Let her not believe all this, allow a large deduction for exaggeration, and make it a point to judge for herself Let the wise young House- keeper be firm and kind, thoughtful, considerate, and patient. Her domestics are not slaves, they are not soul-less. Treated rationally they must, of necessity, be- come her attached friends, and like that long-lived, though nearly extinct race of servants, whose term of office was measured not by months, but by tens of years, she will hear them urging an ancient and touching plea,—" En- treat me not to leave thee ; for whither thou goest, I will go, and where thou lodgest, I will lodge, where thou diest, I will die, and there will I be buried."THE YOUNG HOUSEKEEPEK. 7 It has almost been forgotten, in tliis little lecture, to remind the young Housekeeper, that there is also included in Domestic Economy, the "economy of time." A hint on this point may not be unserviceable. There are still many Marthas who are cumbered with much serving, impulsive, bustling, energetic, yet sadly out of the ques- tion of order and punctuality. Method is what these earnest Marthas need ; they would just do double the amount of household duty, were they methodical in going about it. Punctuality with the hours of meals, and a careful distribution of the labours of the day, would infuse such a calmness of spirit, and such a beauty of order into all that she does, as would more than ^ reward our gentle sister for all her toils. Nor let her imagine that these " little things " are little needed and little heeded. Young affection may cover a multitude of foibles; but let her be assured she will retain the heart quite as surely, and all the longer in freshness and beauty, by studying to please, even in what some may call " matters of fact." Many good husbands have been sadly changed by ill-cooked, and ill-timed dinners ; and many a critical project has been marred by an ill-regulated home. A little well-directed effort, continuously carried out, will render the duty easy and Hght; everything will fall into its proper place. Peace and joy will reigu supreme, and the "life battle," so frequently dreaded, will be fought with a success never failing, and a courage never dismayed.8 THE COOK, HER QUALIFICATIONS, NECESSARY UTENSILS, &c. The cook filling an impoi'tant position as a domestic, renders it necessary that she should possess the qualifi- cations requisite to discharge, with credit to herself, the responsible duties of her calling. She must possess, first, the habit of cleanliness, which is most essential in the art of cooking; punctuality, by which all the arrangements of the day may be successfully carried out; good temper, without which the comfort and happiness of the house- hold are materially impaired; and a thorough knowledge of the principles of her art, in all its details. The following hints may perhaps be of some assistance:— CLEANLINESS. This is a most important subject, and one of the highest recommendations a cook can possibly have. It is absolutely necessary to be possessed of cleanly habits in the most minute points in cookery. The cooking utensils should never be put aside until they ai-e thoroughly cleaned. When soup and sauce pans have been well washed from grease, take a clean damp wooUen cloth, dip it in coarse salt, and scour them well, the msides and rims of the lids also. Unless this is attended to, the colours of soups and sauces are much injured and soon become unfit for use, if kept only for a very short tmie. Gridirons should be kept always bright, by scouring them weU with coarse emery paper, especiaUy between the bars; when put aside greasy, they quite spoil the flalout of whatever is cooked in them Steak ong. iron spoons and forks used in cooking, should be9 THE COOK. kept very clean, and scalded with boiling water, as they are sure to taste the meat if this is not attended to, Pyiding cloths should be soaked and rinsed out as soon as possible after using them; they should never be used for other purposes; and separate cloths should be kept for sweet and savoury puddings; the flavour of a savoury pudding woulr' spoil a sweet pudding entirely. Cloths used for steSiming potatoes must be kept entirely for the purpose, and never washed with soap; rinse them out with a little washing powder. By an expeditious cleaning and clearing away after dinner, the smell of cooking, which is generally diffused through the house, and particularly disagreeable to some persons, is sooner removed. It is a good plan, when all is "tidied up," to heat an old coal shovel, and pour a little coarse vinegar on it, and carry it about for a few moments in the lower hall and kitchen; this effectually dispels the odour from the kitchen. "When a kitchen maid is kept, the cook can attend more comfortably to her duties, especially where she is expected to make up pastry, tea cakes, and the finer branches, as her hands are in better condition for it, not having the coarser work to do. Dish covers are frequently hung up without cleaning, . which is a most untidj custom; they should be washed with hot water, and well dried every time they are used. Brass and copper cooking utensils cannot be too particu- larly attended to; the want of attention has proved very pernicious in many instances, poisonous substances being extracted from them, if not most particularly well cleaned. Vegetables of all kinds should be well washed and picked before mincing or cutting them up; this is B■j^Q THE COOK. sometvmes neglected. A s a rule, the kitchen, larder, utensils, and all that comes within the boundaries of the cook must be sweet, fresh, and clean, thus yielding a large amount of substantial pleasure to hei^self, and unbounded satisfaction to her employers. PUNCTUALITY. Without this qualification it is impossible to get on well, if indeed at all. The arrangements of the day should be made in the morning, and caniea steaxlily forward, keeping note of time. The kitchen txme-pece should be regularly attended to, to prevent the possi- bility of a mistake. Make preparations m proper time for dinner, to save hurry and confosion. Soups which should be made the day before, should be kept m the larder until it is just time to warm them up for dinner. Eish should be prepared for cooking a few hours pre- viously; vegetables should be prepared and laid m salt and water; stews, puddings, and gravy sauces, attended to at the proper time; joints should be put down o roa.t according to theii' weight, so that all may be quite done in proper time, which is a comfort to all parties. Ha^- an-hour before cUnner the ashets should be put into the xneat screen, with vegetable dishes, plates, sauce tureens and all the dishes that require to be made hot, in readiness for the dinner hour; they are reqinred to be warm, but not so hot that they can scarcely be handled This should be most paiticularly attended to especially with plates. Dish the different courses immediately suc- ceeding each other, and place them in the -e^* -i-een covered, so that they are ready when wani^d. AttentionTHE COOK. 11 to these things save bustle and annoyance to those serving at table, and is a comfort to the cook herself. GOOD TEMPER. A good temper is an excellent quality in a cook. Slie more than the other domestics has much to try her tem- per ; from the multi25licity of her duties, and having two parties to please, her employers and her equals, it is not an easy matter sometimes. The best course is to do her duty steadfastly, and to keep an equable temper if pos- sible. COOKING UTENSILS. The Kitchen must be supplied with proper utensils, so that the cook may properly prepare the food entrusted to her care. She must have a proper range, with boiler for hot water j an oven, a roasting jack, and screen; a small dispatch, for occasional use ; sowp pots ; stew, saiice, pre- serving, and frying pans; a cutlet and omelette pan. See engravings. Plates XII., XIII., and XIV., where the necessary utensils may be seen. In addition, it may be necessary to mention, that two dozen of pattie pans are aU that is required, and one cutter for them ; two pastry brushes, one large and one small; one dozen tin moulds for small meat pies, and a plain cutter for Hds or covers; a small filler for running water or gravy into pies; a felt jelly bag, a tamis cloth, and a fruit sieve, in addition to hair sieves; two pudding moulds, and four jelly moulds are necessary, of tinned copper. White earthenware moulds are very useful, but not so good for turning out nice moulds of jelly.THE COOK. 12 MARKETING. By consulting provisions in season at the different periods of the year, a choice can be conveniently made. The best rule for marlieting is to deal with those in whom confidence can be placed. At the same time it is necessary to be a good judge of butcher meat, and what pieces are most profitable and suitable for roasting, boiling, or stew- ing. It is a mistake to purchase too much at once, unless for salting. The following remarks on the cutting up of meat, it is hoped, may be of service. THE CUTTING UP OF MEAT. Although the cutting up of butcher meat is performed by the butcher, it is necessary to understand the names of the different parts to choose from. Thus the English and Scotch plans of cutting up meat are described as they are cut up differently. Compare the following remarks ■with Plate I.:— Fig 1 represents a bullock for cutting up on the Eng- lish plan. 1, is the loin or sirloin ; 2, the rump; 3, the edgeboue; 4, the buttock; 5, the hock; 6, the vemy piece; 7, thick flank; 8, the thin flank; 9, the leg; 10, foreribs, containing five ribs; U, middle rib, contain- ing four ribs; 12, chuck rib, containing three ribs; 13, shoulder or leg of mutton piece; U, brisket; 15, clod; 16, neck or sticking piece; 17, shin; 18, cheek 1 and 2, on both sides united, constitute what is called a baron Pl!te I., Fig. 2, represents a bullock marked for cutting up on the Scotch plan. 1, is the sirloin or back sye; 2,l''TO. 1.ENGLISH PXAN.PLANS OF CUTTING UP MEAT. T'TG.8. PORK4PLATE Jll OX TONGiri'JVLATE V. Q^UARTEJi OIT LAMB, TTLLET OT TEAL II IlJUCTC FOB. ROAS'rra'G.IFZjITE w.COD^ ELAD AM) SffOTTIDER. WTIITITJGS.iCOOKING UTENSILS. PLATE MT.COOKING UTENSILS, TLATEJ^/R. 'ixussiag Weedle. Sugar SaiLcepaii. til Straiaer.ICOOKING Torkshire Piidduig I'aa. frjiTLg Pan. Rfvolvin^ Gr-idicdii Jlidfc Basket . S al amajidfix. SL-ales.CUTTING UP OP MEAT. 13 the hook bonej 3, the buttock; 4, the large round (3 and 4 together make the rump); 5, the small round; 6, hough; 7, thick flank; 8, thin flank: 9, nineholes; 10 and 11, the large and small runner; 12, the spare rib or fore sye; 13, the brisket; 14, the shoulder Iyer; 15, nap, or shin ; 16, the neck; and 17, the sticking piece. From 1 to 8 is the hind-quarter, and from 9 to 17 is the fore- quarter. According to the English plan, beef is cut up ; more advantageously for roasting and broiling. The i Scotch plan is more economical, as it gives more boiling ; pieces, from which soups and made dishes can be had in I great variety. THE CUTTING UP OF MUTTON, Mutton is cut up in England and Scotland diflerently : figs. 4 and 5 represent it as cut up on both plans. Plate I., Eig. 3, represents a sheep as apportioned by • the English butcher. Fig. 4, 1, marked in the circle, is • the shoulder, separated from the neck and breast; 2, the 1 scrag end of neck; 3, is the best end ; 4, is the breast; . 5, the loin; 6, the leg, which, when formed with 5, makes I the haunch. Plate I., Fig. 5, represent^the Scotch plan. 1, is the I gigot; 2, the loin. The loin and gigot together form the 1 hind-quarter. 3, is the back ribs; 4, the breast. The 1 back ribs and breast form the fore-quarter. ^HENISON. Buck and doe Venison are cut up in the same manner, ! see Plate II., Fig. 6. 1, the haunch; 2, the neck; 3, the ■ shoulder; 4, the breast.CUTTING UP OF MEAT. 14 VEAL. V oal, see Plate II., Fig. 7. 1, the best loin; 2, the loin (chump end) ; 3, the fillet; 3, the hind knuckle ; 5, the fore knuckle; 6, the neck, best end; 7, the neck, scrag end; 8, the blade bone; 9, the breast; 10, the brisket. LAMB. Lamb is cut up as mutton, and is generally sold in quarters. PORK. A pig is cut up as, see Plate II., Fig. 8. 1, the fore loin; 2, hind loin; 3, the belly; 4, the fore leg, or hand; 5, the hind leg. THE DIFFERENT PIECES OF BUTCHER MEAT SUITABLE FOR ROASTING, BOILING, &c. The sirloin and ribs of beef are the best roasting pieces. A braised fillet of beef is a handsome dish. The flank, nine holes, runner, spare rib, and brisket, are suitable boiling pieces, and for making barley and vegetable broths. The large and small rounds are generally salted for boiling ; the hough and neck for soups ; the nap for jelly; and the spare rib or fore sye, and rump for steaks, suitable also for stewing, or for making pies. Steak, from the hook bone is called the Pope's-eye steak. MUTTON. The best roasting pieces are from the shoulder, loin, and leg or gigot. Chops are from the loin, and cutlets IBUTCHER MEAT. 15 from tlie tliick end of the gigot. The head, neck, and other pai-ts are either used in the making of barley broth, or stewed, and are suitable for pies. LAMB May all be roasted, except the head and neck ; the leg may be boiled. Lamb chops and cutlets are cut as mut- ton, from the loin and thick end of the gigot; the cutlet is suitable also for lamb pies. VEAL. The fillet of veal in the best roasting piece ; the breast or shoulder for boiling ; cutlets from the leg or gigot; the other pieces may be stewed, cut up for pies, or potted. The head is served generally as a dressed dish at table, but may be potted ; the feet make the most delicate PORK. The best roasting piece is the loin ; steaks are taken : from the shoulder; cutlets from the leg. If the pork is ; young, a handsome roasting piece is made of the best I part of the hind leg, the skin having been removed. ' The head and other pieces are generally salted for I boiling. VENISON. The haunch is the best roasting piece, the shoulder f and neck also ; the best pieces, except these, are stewed, < or made into pies ; the superfluous pieces, and the head, I are potted, to be eaten cold. THE KEEPING OF MEATS. The larder should be situated where it will be always s sliaded from the sun,,a'jd freely ventilated. A wire16 BUTCHER MEAT. gauze window is tlae proper window for a larder; it should be supplied also witli wire dish covers for covering moats, and shelves with strong hooks, for hanging up joints and poultry. Beef and mutton may be kept for a few days to become tender, more or less, according to the state of the weather ; if the atmosphere is cool, dry, and clear, they may be kept hanging from eight to ten days ; but if other- wise, the half of that time wUl be sufficient. VEAL, LAMB, AND POKK Must not be kept more than a day or two. GAME Will keep from ten days to a foi-tnight. FOWLS. Fowls and turkeys, eight to ten days. FISH. Fish must be used immediately after it is caught, some persons prefer salmon caught a few days. This is purely a matter of taste; it is thought that the flavour is improved by keeping, this ought not to be risked, unless known to be approved of. THE KILLING OF TURKEYS, GEESE, &c. In large towns these are to be had killed at the poulterers ; but, for the sake of general information, and for the benefit of those who may have to kiU their own poultry, etc., the following may be found useful. A turkey is killed by cutting it below the tongue with a sharp pen-knife as quickly as possible; the knife is then immediately passed up through the head into the bram, itBUTCHER MEAT. 17 is then hung up to bleed by the feat. All smaller fowls are killed by pulling and dislocating the neck at the head. To kill geese and ducks, tie a string round the beak, and the pinions of the wings, cut the neck across deeply, quite close to the head ; they are then suspended by the feefc. to bleed freely. RABBITS AND HARES. Eabbits and hares when caught alive, are killed by holding them by the hind legs, and giving them a smart blow behind the ears. FEATHERED ANIMALS. Feathered animals should be kept for a whort time with their feathers on, after they are killed, and not drawn or gutted till they are to be used. But furred animals should be punched or gutted as soon as cold; the skin removed only when about to be used. OYSTERS. Oysters are killed by inserting the point of a sharp steel knife for the purpose, they die whenever the steel touches them, and the shell opens immediately. LOBSTERS. Lobsters are killed by putting them into a pan of boil- ing water, they are kiUed at once. Small shell-fish are killed in the same manner. The killing of animals is a necessary, although a cruel process; it is desirable that this may be committed to such as have some sort of activity about them, and firmness enough to perform this duty at once, so that a moment's agony may not be endured. c18 CLEANING AND DRAWING OF POULTRY, GAME, AND FISH. It is not necessary to wash butcher meat, unless heads, feet, and inside meat, which require soaking, and well washing; let joints be well looked over, when the bones have been cracked, as small pieces of bones are disagreeable and dangerous also. Salted meat must be Wl washed, and if long salted, must be soaked from twelve to twenty-four hours, according to the time it has lain in pickle. TO TAKE THE HAIR FROM CALVES' HEAD AND FEET. They may be had ready cleaned from the butcher. The following directions are for the use of those who cannot get them conveniently done, or choose to have them done at home. It is necessary to soak and wash the blood from them, afterwards put them into a pot of boUing water to scald them for a few minutes; take them out and scrape them with a blunt knife, the cross way of the hau-. If it does not come off quite easily, return it to the hot water again for a short time longer. It must be well washed afterwards. Ox feet are cleaned in the same manner. POULTRY AND GAME. When the feathers have been removed, pick the downs off very particularly; singe them over, very quicklymdeed, to prevent smoking them; turn up the back of the fowl, and with a sharp knife slit the skin four inches from the top of the back bone up the neck; tear the sht open, and break the neck quite through. Put it aside, havmg left19 POULTRY, GAME, ETC. the four inches of skin attached to the fowl; turn up the breast, and take out the crop (that is the little bag in the breast containing the corn); crack the bones of the legs with the knife quite close to the feet, without cutting the sinews J put the feet into a kitchen drawer, close the drawer and pull the legs of the fowl towards you, so that the sinews will be drawn out with the feet. The feet may be fastened to a strong hook instead of the drawer. It makes the legs quite tender. It is a good plan with small poultry also, to steep the legs in hot water a few minutes, and scrape them. Make an incision under one of the legs, but quite under so that when it is sewed up it may not be visible. Take out the gut by this aperture, taking care not to break the gall bag. Wash it thoroughly out, and dry it well; sew up the opening when it is ready for trussing. Some persons object to washing poultry; it is a mistake. TO CLEAN AND SKIN FISH. If the fins are to be removed (which is a matter of taste, as they are sometimes retained to give them more of their natural appearance), cut them off with the fish scissors. Have a large tin basin of cold water, hold them by the tail, hanging them head downwards in the water, and scrape the scales off, dipping them amongst the water as you do them; take out the eyes and empty the fish. "Wash them well, and scrape the blood thoroughly from the bone. Dust them with salt slightly in and out, and lay them on a sieve to drain until wanted. Taste must be consulted in this mat- ter, as in some families the fish must lie for some hours in salt and water before cooking them. Salmon is not generally scaled when plain boiled.20 BONING. TO BONE A TURKEY. Having singed a turkey, and drawn the sinews from the legs, cut off the head and neck, and leave four or five inches of the skin of the neck, as mil be seen at directions for drawing a turkey. Turn over the turkey on its breast, and cut up the skin right up the centre of the back towards the neck. Pause and think well of what you are to be about. You are to remove the skin and flesh in. one entire piece, leaving a skeleton of the bones. Take a sharp pen- knife, and scrape the meat entirely from the bones, begin- ning at each side of the back, down to each side of the breast, leaving the last bone of the leg and the last two joints of the wings. It is necessary to leave them un- touched, as it is difficult to put them into the natural form again. When the bones have been removed, sew the tur- key half up with strong thread. Have an ox tongue boiled, skinned, and the bones and coarse pieces of the root removed. Spread veal stuffing to the thickness of half an inch all over the inside of the turkey; put the tongue into the turkey, with the top into the breast, and the'point downwards. Sew it up, and put the skin of the neck over the back, and sew it down in the usual way. Turn it over and truss it for roasting. Instead of the tongue, three pounds of pork sausage meat, mixed with half a pound of grated bread, seasoned with white pepper, salt, and, if liked, a few sweet herbs, may be substituted. It is used cold. Some fowls' are sometimes boned and stuffed, with pork tongue boiled, or sausage meat. When foucompany they are glazed and ornamented.BONING. 21 TO BONE A FILLET OF VEAL. Take a sharp pointed knife and cut out the bone, by- keeping the knife in an upward position in your hand quite close to the bone, working it round. When the bone is removed, fill up the space with veal stuffing. It is then bound with broad tape, or firmly skewered. SHOULDER OF VEAL. Take a sharp knife and take ofi" the skin ; cut out the bones all of a piece, and the meat also, leaving as little meat on the bones as possible. Lay the meat out flat, and spread a rich stuffing over it ; roll it up and bind it with tape, or skewer it. TO BONE FISH. Fish are boned by cutting them down the belly after cleaning them ; keep the knife close to the bone each side, the side bones are then easily pulled out. Flat fish are boned by cutting thf^ flesh right off, with a sharp knife, both sides. TO SKIN FISH. Take a sharp knife, and cut the skin down the back, from head to tail; catoh hold of the skin, and, with a knife, scrape the flesh from the skin as quickly, and gently as possible, smoothing the fish as you go along; it is quite easily done with a little care. Flat fish are dipped in boiling water, when the black skin is scraped off' immediately. TO SKIN A HARE. Cut off" the four feet, make a long slit in the skin of the belly, open it up with the fingers, and draw out the22 BONING. two hind legs, turn over the skin on the back, and pull it gently towards the fore-legs, draw them out and pull it right over the head, using a knife to assist in doing so; cut the belly up half-way, and remove the gut. Break the skin with the fingers that confines the lungs and blood. You will understand this by observing the pro- cess. Draw out the lungs, and let the blood run into a basin. Wash it and the lungs in as little water as pos- sible, and strain the water amongst the blood. The hare must be well wiped with a cloth, to remove the haii-s entirely. SHOULDER OF MUTTON Is boned in the same way as veal. TRUSSING. TO TRUSS A TURKEY FOR ROASTING. Having prepared a turkey (as directed for cleaning), fill the crop with fowl stufiing, and fasten the skin with a small skewer on the back; turn round the wings on the back, and skewer them; thread a trussing needle with kitchen cord, and fasten the legs quite close with it, when it is ready to cook. See Engraving, Plate VI. ROAST FOWLS. Fowls are trussed in the same manner as turkeys. BOILED TURKEY. A turkey, when to be boiled, is ti-ussed with the legs pushed into the body; this is performed by cutting ofi" a good portion of the leg bones, and pushing in the legs23 TEXJSSING. iutn the body. It is trussed in every other way, as for roasting. See Engraving, Plate VI. BOILED FOWLS. Fowls are trussed for boiling in the same manner as boiled turkey. PHEASANTS Are trussed in the same manner as roast fowl, except that the head is kept on, and twisted round the wing; the claws are clipped off only in part, and the first two joints of the wings are taken off. PAETRIDGES The same; as also all game birds and wild fowl. Examine Plate YIII., where a pheasant and partridge are dressed, after being cooked, for the table; the head, neck, and wings are cut off without stripping them of their feathers, which are fastened on with skewers, when to be served, as will be seen. CHICKENS AND PIGEONS. Chickens and pigeons are trussed either for roasting or boiling as fowls. FISH. A cod's head and shoulders are, after cleaning and skinning it, stuffed and trussed for boiling, by binding it with broad tape. Small fish are skinned, boned, and rolled, and skewered tightly ; or when skinned, the tail is pushed through the eye. JOINTS Are prepared by cracking the bones in several places, where they might be annoying to the carver otherwise.TRUSSING. 24 and any superfluous bones removed, if, in roasts of beef, there is a great deal of suet attached, remove part of it^ leaving, however, sufficient to baste it welL HARE AND RABBIT. By examining the engravings, Plate VII., the different methods wiU be understood of trussing them, either for roasting or boiling. You -will find that the ears are left on for roasting, and when to be boiled they are cut off. A hare is trussed for boiling the same as boUed rabbit. TONGUE. Turn up the point of the tongue and fasten it with a skewer, or sew it firm with a trussing needle and pack thread. This gives the tongue an agreeable appearance. ROUND OF BEEF, As prepared by the butcher, is aU nicely tied up, and needs no other trussing. FILLETS, OR STUFFED SHOULDERS, Are bound firmly, and put in good shapes. LARDING. This is a French word, as may be found in consulting French Terms; lard, in the French, signifies bacon; there- fore, larding is a process by which bacon is used to enrich lean meat; a larding needle is requii-ed, which will be found amongst the engravings of cooking utensils. Slices of fat bacon, after cutting off the rind, arc cut in long narrow stripes ; they are secured in the sUts of the larding pin, and inserted in and out through the surface25 TRUSSING. of the flesli of the fowls; it must not be clumsily done, but performed very neatly and quickly, as the bacon is apt to become soft. The surface of meats are sometimes, ■when to be larded, held for a few minutes amongst boil- ing water, to firm them; when they are more easily done. The breasts and thighs of poultry and game ; the backs and thighs of rabbits and hares ; sweetbreads, and calf's Hver, are larded for roasting. A calf's head that lias been cooked with the skin, larded, and put down before the fire, sufficiently to cook the bacon, gives the dish a rich appearance. Eoasts of veal are sometimes larded by inserting the bacon in thicker stripes, quite through the meat; first through the one way, and then through the other, so that in carving it will appear in diamond shapes. BRAISING. Praising is an expensive method of stewing (a French word). A fillet of veal is braised by putting a thick slice of ham, unsmoked, in a braising or stew pan; having boned the fillet, mince a piece of ham, and season it with powdered thyme and sweet spice; stuff this in the space from where the bone has been taken, bind it firmly, and place it on the ham in the stew pan ; the pan must just be the right size to hold it. Put a slice of ham over it, and add two blades of mace, a few sweet herbs, a small piece of lemon peel, a dessert-spoonful of white pepper- corns bruised, and two bay leaves; put these into a small muslin bag ; add also two breakfast-cupfuls of water ; add salt only if you find it necessary, as the ham may be sufficiently salted. Cover very close, and if the fillet weigh more than eight lbs., it will take three to four26 TRUSSING. hours' stewing very gently. When done the fillet is dished without the ham; and the gravy, which has become quite a thick glaze, is poured over it. A ham is braised in the same way. Extra ham is not required ; a small piece of fresh beef is used instead. The skin of the ham is removed before braising, and the same spices and seasonings as above. Vegetables may be added, and wine if desired ; it is more delicate without. Braised fillet of beef is a handsome dish; it must be larded all through, and over the surface, and stewed with very little water, with forcemeat balls, or trufiies. GLAZING. Glaze is made by boiling down clear brown soup until it has become quite firm ; this is done by placing it after it is very strong into an earthen jar, and placing it in a pan of boiling water, and allowing it to remain until it has acquired the stiffness necessary for glazing. A more convenient and quick way of making glaze is to soak a shilling packet of " Mackay's Extract of Calves' Feet" fifteen minutes in cold water; pour the water from it, and put the extract into a small jar; melt a tea-cupful of very dark browning, and pour over the extract, set it in a basin of hot water to dissolve, when it is ready at once ; twenty minutes wUl prepare it. TO GLAZE COLD MEATS. The surface of the meats must be well dried, and tJie grease >viped off Avith a cloth, wrung out of hot water; the glaze is then applied with a brush; one good glaze27 GLAZING. should be sufficient, but are sometimes glazed over twice or thrice. Keep the glaze covered up for use, in a cool place, until it is again required; place the jar containing it into a pan of boiling water to melt it. WHITE GLAZE. Simmer over the fire gently for ten minutes, two break- fast-cupfuls of cream, with one bay leaf, and one blade of mace with a pinch of salt; take out the mace and bay leaf, and pour it over one ounce of isinglass; stir it until dissolved; when cooled down a little, pour it over your meats, covering every part; this must be done gently, and when cold, garnished with pink savoury jelly, recipe for making which will be found in Index. A cheaper white glaze is used by boiling arrow-root with milk, a little thinner than for a shape, and using in the same way; this can be used for warm as well as cold Dieats. THE BIAKING UP OF THE FIRE. The influence the state of the fire possesses over the cooking operations, makes it necessary that attention be paid to this. The fixe for roasting must be made up so that the heat will be thrown quite forward ; this is accomplished by making up a fire with a few loose coals to burn up quickly, when the fire is burning up quite bright, then put large pieces of coals in the front of the fire, and small wetted coals and cinders heaped at the back. For boiling, a steady moderate fire is necessary j feeding the fire occasionally from underneath in such a manner that the cooking operations will not be disturbed or thrown ofi" the boil. A hot plate, cooking stove, or close range, is best adapted for stewing. or boiling. If•-'8 MAKING UP THE FIEE. cooking with an open range, great attention must be paid to the cleaning of the chimney, dishes are often spoiled by this neglect. It is a good custom that once every week the chimney should be swept as far as the hands can reach. Accidents from the falling of soot is caused by the soot falling that is in the immediate neighbour- hood of the fire, so that it could easily be avoided. MINUTE INSTRUCTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE PROPER PREPARATION OF FOOD AND MANAGEMENT OF THE FIRE. TO ROAST. The meat must be kept at a distance from the fire to heat quite through before the process of roasting begins. It is then drawn towards the fire and kept at a modei-ate distance from it; the time it requires is calculated by its weight; a quarter of an hour to the pound is the general time allowed. In roasting, baste weU very frequently. These remarks are applicable to roasts of all kinds. When it is ready, you will observe the steam drawn towards the fire, but to make sure, always insert a skewer at the bone, if the blood oozes out, it is not done. TO BOIL FRESH MEAT. Fresh meat is put into tepid or boiling water, and boiled rapidly for a few minutes; the scum is removed and it is then set aside to simmer very gently indeed, allowing fully a quarter of an hour to each pound of meat, according to size or weight; salt is added half an29 PREPARATION OP FOOD. liour before removing it from the fire; attention to the boiling of meat is of importance. If boiled quickly, the meat is rendered quite tough, and it is therefore very- unsatisfactory. If by any chance the water boils in, it must be renewed with boiling water. TO BOIL HAM, TONGUE, OR SALTED MEAT. After washing, put on to boil in cold or tepid water, if soaked over night, on the same principle as boiling fresh meat; when through the boil it is skimmed and put to the side to simmer very gently. TO ROAST OR BOIL FOWLS. Small fowls wiU take from twenty minutes to half an hour; Turkeys, Geese, and other large fowls from three quai-ters of an hour to two hours in proportion to their size. RABBITS AND HARES. Rabbits and hares are put into boiling water with a little salt to boil; when boiling scum the water and simmer them very gently. Eabbits, if young, will take an hour; hares, two hours ; and wiU take the same time, if roasted. GAME BIRDS. Pheasants will take from half an hour to three quarters according to size ; partridges, half an hour; pigeons, the same. TO STEW. Stewing is one of the most particular points in pre- paring food; if stewing veal or beef olives, heat the stew- pan and melt a piece of butter or good dripping in it;PREPARATION OF FOOD. 30 roll the olives in flour, and place them in the stew pan, brown them nicely all over, not coarsely, but a pale brown; pour in two cupfuls of boiling water ; add the seasonings, as see in recipe for beef and veal olives, and simmer gently two hours ; this method is good, and may be followed for any stew, whether small or large pieces of meat. Fowls, &c., may be stewed by the same rule : the rule is, let the simmering be such that it can scarcely be observed. TO FRY Cutlets, chops, and fish should all be cooked in a cutlet pan; it has straight sides, and therefore the butter or dripping comes better up over them ; heat the pan, and have a good quantity of butter, good dripping, or lard in the pan, having them trimmed as see the recipe for them to be found in the Index, and egg and crumbed; when the pan is ready with the hot dripping, put in whatever of the above you mean to fry, and brown them nicely a pale brown, they should be quite firm; have a sieve ready prepared with blotting paper, or a soft muslin cloth iaid on it; lift the cutlets, &c., out of the pan with a slice, and drain them on the sieve; thus prepared, this method, when well done, gives greit satisfaction, as they are quite tree from grease; they should be done so that when laid on a napkin they would not soil it; for Sauces, see Index. TO BBOIL. A clear red glow of heat is necessary, and careful turning; a hot ashet should be in readiness to catch the gravy, which, in turning it, would run into the fii'e; this is in reference to steak or chops.PREPARATION OF FOOD. 31 TO BAKE. Baked meat, unless under cover as a pie, is not an economical method of cooking; it should be turned and basted occasionally, but not salted until it is baked ; the time calculated is a short time less than for roastino-. Fish is baked in a very short time, by the time it is browned on the top, it is done. A pie of uncooked meat of four or five pounds will take two hours, the cover will be ready before that time ; when the paste is ready, place the pie on the hot plate to finish, or cover it with a paper slightly gi-eased, and leave the oven door slightly open. The oven for pastry must be good, hot, but not scorching; if cold the paste will run all over the dish ; and when pastry is in the oven, the door must be opened as seldom as possible. A green fruit tart of four pounds will take an hour; rich cakes, such as plum or seed cake must ha^-e a very moderate oven, and an equal heat kept up all the time. A fruit cake takes no longer to bake than a cake without fruit; if four pounds weight it will require two hours. In trying whether a cake is done, never use a knife for the purpose; take a clean skewer and insert it in the centre of the cake, which is the thickest part of it; if dry, then the cake is done; if well raised in the centre and cracked, and well browned, the cake will be sure to give satisfaction. Small biscuits require careful watching; they are baked in a few minutes. Shortbread does not require a very hot oven ; a cake of nearly two pounds weight will take from three quarters of an hour to an hour; a light tea cake of two pounds weight will take an hour.32 THE GENERAL ECONOMY OF THE KITCHEN. It is unnecessary that the slightest waste takes place; beginning with fuel, small coal should be used up regularly every day along with the larger pieces, and fires kept only in accordance with what is required. It is true that one individual will save one half of the coals that another, similarly placed, will use. Supposing that to be the habit in relation to everything under such a one's charge, how very material the difierence must be in point of economy. In breaking coals break them by the seam and not across; this method saves labour, and a great waste in breaking them. In making up the fire for the night, see that it is done in such a manner that it may keep in all night; and that the water boiler is filled. Have always wood chips at hand in case of emergency. From the abundant supply of water its waste never seems to be thought of; it is not the less sinful to waste it on that account. Gas is often thoughtlessly burned when it is in reality not required. In private well-regulated families the gas ought to be turned off at the meter at a regular hour; a great saving is effected by this rule. When this is done the jets should be carefully turned off in the different apartments; when this has been neglected it is very dangerous to enter a room with a light where gas escapes; serious accidents have been the result. Bones and trimmings of meat and poultry should be added to the Stock Pot or a rich gravy drawn from them, which would be convenient to reserve for many purposes. Drippingwillkeepfor along time, if alittle salt is added to it and kept well covered up from the air. Top fat is useful for many purposes, when melted and poured into a basm of coldTHE KITCHEN. 33 water, lift it with a strainer, and scrape away any refuse from the underside; repeat this when it may be melted with roast drippings. Kitchen grease that cannot be used for this purpose, maybe used in the manufacture of kitchen soap ; recipe for making it:—Take one pound of grease, one pound of soda, one pound of American pearl ash, and put them into an old pot; stir them over the fire, until quite melted, taking great care that they do not run over. This is most useful in the kitchen for washing wood, kit- chen cloths, and for cleaning the hands thoroughly. The boiling of fresh meat is useful in making soups. From a piece of mutton, good rice or barley broth is made. From ham, or salted meat, pea soup is generally made; if very salt, part of it only must be used. If not wanted for these purposes, they are always a great addition to the Stock pot for brown soups of any kind. Bones from roast beef make excellent pea or potato soup. Bones of any kind can be used in making soups. Cold left meat can be used up for many purposes, as the recipes throughout the book shew; it may be minced, seasoned, and in readi- ness for use. Cold left rice or potatoes, may be mixed with it, and made up into balls, or flat cakes, and fried for breakfast, luncheon, or suj^per, and is sometimes useful in making up an extra dinner dish ; the remains of fish are useful done up in this way, and may be mixed with potatoes or rice also. Vegetables, such as carrots, turnip^ cabbages, &c., are not safe to heat up for use the day after they have been cooked, they are almost sure to become acid on the stomach; the proper quantity should be cooked for the day's use. E34 THE DISHING OF COOKED MEATS FOR THE TABLE. As it is necessary that animal food should be presented in an agreeable and inviting form, a few hints may be acceptable on this subject. For Gamishings, consult Index. A sirloin of beef is dished as shewn in the Engi^aving. If a large joint, instead of sending all the gravy in the dish, pour a little over the meat, and a sauce- tureenful to table. The ashets are so shaUow that it is very inconvenient to the carver when a great quantity of gravy is sent in the dish. A BOUND OF BEEF Is served also as seen in Engraving. Remove the binding carefully; take a sharp knife and cut a thin slice from the top. Trim it all round, if necessary, pour a ladleful of the water in which it was boiled over it. ROAST OR BOILED MUTTON Is properly dished with the underside up, although it is frequently served otherwise. The knuckle end Ls placed to the left hand of the carver. HAUNCH OF VENISON OR MUTTON Is dished with the back uppermost, and the knuckle end towards the left hand of the carver. LAMB, &c. Lamb is dished as seen in the engraving ; also ham and saddle of mutton ; shoulder of mutton is dished with the back uppermost, and the neck end towards the carver.35 DISHING OP COOKED MEATS. Roast turkey, geese, and fowls are dislied with the breast towards the left hand; as also chickens, pheasants, and ducks. Pigeons and small lairds are dished in a circle round the dish, so as the feet meet in the centre. Stews, such as beef or veal olives are heaped neatly in the centre, and the gravy poured over them. Cutlets and chops are arranged round the dish, each leaning on the other, and the gravy or vegetables in the centre—see Kecipes. Rabbits and hares are dished, as shown in the Engraving, with the heads towards the left of the carver j see Engraved Plates ; also, for calves' head, neck of veal, fillet of veal and tongue. Large fish are dished with the head towards the left hand ; small fish are dished head and taU, or turned round and the tail pushed through the eye ; for other ways of d ishing fish seeRecipes in Index. When fish are served without gravy in the dish, they are placed on neatly folded napkins ; and frequently when gravy is served in the dish, an under ashet, a size larger is covered with a napkin, and the dish placed on it; that is done at pleasure with meats of any kind. Entrees, where gravy is not served in the dish, are invariably served on napkins, which must be very neatly folded; cold meats are generally served on napkins. CARVING. Practical experience is necessary, to a considerable extent, to be a good carver. It is very pleasing to see a lady cai-ve neatly; the young housewife should accustom herself to carve, with neatness and activity, joints, fowls, or any other dish that may be placed before her at table,36 CARVING. SO that she toay have no difficulty or distnist of her powers when called upon to carve before company. The disb must be placed at a convenient distance, neither too near nor too far away ; it is of great importance that carving knives are in good condition. Carving must be performed without any appearance of exertiou, with placidity and neatness, as if by dexterity and skill. SIRLOIN OF BEEF Is carved from A towards B, as is shown in the Engraving. Slices are carved from the underside also, as shewn by the dotted line in the Engi-aving. A choice Ls given, some preferring the underside or fillet, and others the outside slice; a little fat and gravy are served with it. EOAST RIBS OF BEEF Are carved across the ribs quite down to the bones in slices, a little thicker than slices from the sirloin; sei-ve a little fat and gravy. ROUND OF BEEF. Slices from rounds of beef are carved as shown in the Engraving, from A to B. Boiled beef is cut thinner than roast beef 3 a small piece of fat should be served with the lean. ROAST OR BOILED GIGOT OF MUTTON. The slices are carved moderately thin ; if seiwed with the upper side they are cai-ved right across in the thickest and most fleshy side, thus helping slices cut across the SADDLE OF MUTTON. Saddle of mutton is carved in thin slices across the ribs,CARVING. 37 quite along the whole length on either side ; saddle of lamb or pork is carved in the same manner. LAMB. Quarter of lamb is carved in slices as shown in the Engraving. HAM. Ham is sometimes carved through the thickest part, an shown in the Engraving, but it is more economical to slice ic across three or four inches from the knuckle; it is carved in slices as thin as possible. CALF'S HEAD. Calf's head is carved in slices, as indicated in Engraving. They are cut quite down to the bone ; a little stuffing, a slice of the tongue, and a little fat and gravy, are helped out with ib. FILLET OF VEAL. The fillet is carved in the same manner as a round of beef; serve stuffing and gravy with it. ROLLED VEAL. Veal, or meat of any kind, boned, and stuffed, is sliced across, beginning at one of the ends. TONGUE Is sliced across in thin slices ; part of the fat, and the throat sweetbread, are served with it. ROAST HARE Is carved by cutting slices from head to tail down the back on each side ; the legs are either carved by cutting the meat in fillets from the bones, or dividing them in two; stuffing and gravy are served with it.CARVING. 38 FOWLS. Fowls are carved by fixing the fork firmly into the breast; cut off a wing and leg on one side; cut down the merrythought; then cut thin slices the whole length of the breast; serve out what is already carved, giving a choice. Divide the joint of the leg, thus making two helpings, and the same with the wing. A little stuffing and gravy is served with it. Carve the other side in the same" way, if required. Pheasants and partridges are carved in the same manner. Geese and ducks are car^^ed in much the same manner. Stufied fowls, when boned, are carved across as tongue is carved. Pigeons are cut in two from head to taU. COVER OF A PIE. The cover of a pie is carved by cutting the cover in triangular pieces from the centre to the sides. Two pieces only are carved before taking out and serving the meat; a piece of paste is served with the meat, and a little gravy Plum or any pudding of the same stiffness, is carved in slices from the centre. Other puddings, jeUies and creams, are helped with spoons, as a matter of course. Cheese should not be cut in thin sHces, but in small thick Pi^^'^- FISH. Large fish, as salmon and cod, are carved as shewn in Engi-aving, with a fish carving knife and fork, taking care not to break the flakes; turbot, as shown m En^i-aving also, helping small portions of the rich gelatm- ous" skin, and a portion of the thick part of the h^. Soles are carved in the same manner a« turbot. ihe thickest parts of all flat fish are the best. SmaU fish are either divided or served whole.39 WEIGHTS AND MEASUEES. The following are tables of the principal -weights ana measures, according to the imperial standard now in use in all parts of the United Kingdom :— WEIGHTS. 1 Ounce. 16 — 1 Pound. 224 — 14 — 1 Stone. 448 — 28 — 2 - 1 1792 — 112 — 8 - 4 35840 — 2240 — 160 - 80 1 peck — 14 pds. 1 1 bushel — 56 pds. 1 boU — 140 pds. 1 Cwt. 1 Ton. sack — 280 pds. or 2| cwt. MEASURES. 1 Gill. 4—1 Pint. 8— 2 — 32 _ 8 — 64 — 16 — 256 1 Quart. 4 — 1 Gal. 8—2—1 Peck. 64 — 32 —8— 4 — 1 Bushel. .32—8 — 1 Qr. 2048 — 512 — 256 — 64 The peck, bushel, and quarter, are used for diy goods only. In Scotland, a pint is sometimes called a mutchkin, and a quart called a dioppin.40 COOKERY AND DOMESTIC ECONOMY. SOUPS. General Resiarks. Upon the management of this department depends, in great measure, the degree of economy or waste going on in any establishment. It will always happen, and especially in large families, that there are refuse bones and pieces of meat, every scrap of which should be collected together, with any odds and ends of all kinds of animal food, such as heads and necks of poultry, trimmings of meat, (fee. If not approved of for family use, they will, at all events, afford good useful soup for the poor, who will, many of them, be grateful for the broth or soup produced from them. Besides these, the boilings of all meat and poultry should be saved, and the strength increased by adding bones, scraps, <fec. The liquor from salt meat may be used, in part only, to form the foundation for all sorts of soups, gravies, &c.; the liquid thus furnished being on this account called by the name "stock." The stock of soups should be made the day before wanted, in order that the sediment may fall to the bottom, and the fat taken more effectually from the top. The recipes given are for one tureen of soup, subject to being made stronger according to taste. The quantities given have been generally found sufficient. CLEAR BROWN SOUP. Take five pounds leg of beef, called hough, a turnip, two large carrots, a little celery and parsley, with four onionsj41 SOUPS. put them all on to boil, with four quarts of water. Wheu coming through the boil, skim very carefully, and add one table-spoonful of bruised black and Jamaica peppercorns, one dozen cloves, and one blade mace; simmer very slowly five hours, add salt and strain it, and put it aside for use. When wanted, take off the fat and leave the sediment; put it on.to come through the boil, take off what scum may be on it, and if not clear enough, beat up the white and bruised shells of two eggs to a froth, and whisk it quickly amongst the boiling soup. Take it from the fire, and cover it with a thick flannel cloth for a few minutes, when you will find it beautifully clear. It should be quite like sherry in colour and clearness. Cover your soup-sieve with muslin, and strain the soup through it into your tureen; add two table-spoonfuls of ketchup, two of browning, and two glasses of sherry-wine. The addition of wine is a matter of taste, and a consideration with regard to economy. The soup ought to be very good without it. PLAIN BEOWN SOUP. Five pounds of hough, one turnip, two carrots, four onions, a little celery and parsley. Take the marrow from the bone, or, if there is no marrow, a table spoonful good dripping. Cut up your onions, and fry them till quite brown. Cut up the meat and vegetables, and pour over them four quarts water. When comiug through the boil, skim carefully; add one table-spoonful bruised peppercorns, one dozen cloves, and simmer very slowly five hours. Strain, and thicken with sago, tapioca, or corn flour; add colour- ing, if necessary, and extra seasoning to taste. The thickening of soups being a veiy particular process,42 SOUPS. it may be well to mention here that the soup must be boU- inf^ at the time, the flour to be bruised with cold water, as you do starch, and poured in gradually, stirrmg the soup from the bottom aU the time. Sago and tapioca should be soaked in cold water an hour, and allowed to boil a few minutes amongst the soup. KIDNEY SOUP. The stock for one tureen may be made of three pounds of meat and one kidney. Make the stock exactly as the brown soup; boil the kidney whole, and when all have simmered slowly four hours, strain the soup. Put it on to come through the boU; grate the kidney; add it, and thicken with corn-flour as above, a little browning, if necessary and ketchup. KIDNEY SOUP.—(AifOTHER Wat.) Three pounds meat, and one pair of kidneys. Stock made as above; the kidney sliced, and each slice cut into four, soaked in salt and water, and stewed separately fi-om the soup. Some people object to the first water of the kidney; in that case, they are stewed about a quarter of an hour, the water poured off, and fresh warm water put over them, stewed very slowly, and added to the soup when wanted. KIDNEY SOUP—No. IH. The same as foregoing, only stew the kidneys until quite tender, pick and wash them clean in warm water, strain the gi-avy in which they have been stewed, add it to the soup* wipe the pieces of kidney, dust them with flour, fry them a nice brown, and add to the soup.SOUPS. 43 OX-TAIL SOUP. One pair of ox-tails, cut in two, and put on with three quarts of water, with the same quantity of vegetables and spice as for brown soup. Simmer three hours. Cut the meat in neat small pieces from the bones, strain the soup, add the meat, and thicken with two spoonfuls of flour; add browning, or put in a burnt crust of bread in the process of making the soup, which answers very well for all soupa that are not clear. OX-TAIL SOUP.—No. II. Two pounds meat made into soup, as brown soup, one ox- tail divided at the joints, and stewed in a separate pan, served in the tureen; they may be slightly browned before stewing; thickened with flour as above. AH soups that are not clear should be of a rich brown colour. JULIENNE SOUP.—(One Tukeen ) Five pounds knuckle of veal, four quarts water, a few young carrots, turnips, onions, parsley, celery, and season- ing as for brown soup. Boil slowly three hours; strain, and let it stand to settle. Remove any grease very care- fully, and clear the same as the clear brown souj), with four eggs instead of two. Have prepared a breakfast- cupful of young green pease, and another of carrot and turnip; cut in narrow stripes, as you do orange chips for marmalade, or in small fancy shapes with small vegetable cuttei-s for the purpose. Boil them a few minutes in fresh water by themselves; put them into the tureen and strain the soup over them. Be srire you have a piece of muslin in your soup-sieve.SOUPS. MACARONI SOUP. Wash, three ounces of macaroni, and boil it three or four minutes; cut it in small rings with scissors, and add it to a tureen of soup, made exactly as the stock for Julienne. VERMICELLI. The same as above. Break the vermicelli in pieces ; it looks nicer than when not broken. Yermicelli does not require boiling by itself, as the macaroni does ; just break it up, and let it boil a few minutes amongst the soup. A11 French and Italian pastes for soup are vused in the same way. SAGO SOUP. The same as above, substituting one cup of washed sago, or it may be improved by the addition of one glass of sherry wine. SUMMER HOTCH-POTCH. Four pounds shoulder of mutton, and four quarts of water ; boil an hour ; add a quart of carrots and turnips cut into dice, a few carrots grated and a few minced onions. Boil another hour-, and then add six or eight nice lamb chops, a quart of young pease, a handful of chopped parsley, and a nice cauliflower, the branches broken into small pieces. Boil slowly one half hour. The mutton is served with onion sauce. WINTER HOTCH-POTCH. Winter hotch-potch is made in the same way, with, four pounds of mutton, and no chops in the soup. One pound of old pease is substituted for the new, and thsy must be soaked over night. •I SOUPS. 4^5' HARE SOUP. Cut the best paiis of tlie flesh from the bones. Put two pounds leg of beef, with the bones, a few carrots, turnips, onions, celery, and parsley, on to boil with four quarts of water, one table-spoonful Jamaica peppercorns bruised, a little cayenne, salt, and a few cloves and black pepper. Boil slowly four hours. The meat, having been well washed, is stewed and minced as fine as possible, and added to the soup when strained. The blood is strained, and thickened with two table-spoonfuls of common flour, and stirred very carefully into the boiling soup. The liver is sometimes boiled and gi-ated amongst it. Two glasses port-wine, and a little ketchup are put into the tureen. For skinning and cleaning the hare, directions are given in another recipe. HARE SOUP—No. II. After skinning and washing a couple of hares, cut them all up, and put them on to boil with four quarts of water; vegetables and seasoning as the foregoing. Simmer very slowly six or sevfen hours; strain and thicken it with three table-spoonfuls of flour, and pour over boiling hot one pint of port wine. It should be pretty sharp with cayenne. RABBIT SOUP. Cut up a nice rabbit j soak in salt and water a night; wash it well, and soak a short time in luke-warm water to whiten it. The pieces must be rather small. Cover with three quarts of water, and put it on to boil slowly one hour. Cut one and a half pounds chops from the loin of mutton across the short way; add these, with two large carrots grated, four large onions minced, a dessert-spoonful of salt, and oneSOUPS. 46 « tea-spoonful white pepper, to the soup. Boil another hour and thicken with two spoonfuls of flour and a little milk. RABBIT SOUP—No. II. Haring soaked, and washed well, a couple of Ptabbits, cut the best parts of the meat from them, and stew it with water, a small piece of butter, and a seasoning of pejDper and salt; cut up the remains of the rabbits ; cover them with three quarts of water, simmer it gently for two hours with a few stalks of celery, a small piece of carrot and turnip, two large onions, pepper, mace, and salt, to taste ; when done strain it, and add the stewed meat, pounded with a thick slice of bread dipped into the soup, the bruised yolks of two hard boiled eggs, and a cup of cream. BROWN RABBIT SOUP. Take three or four nice young rabbits; cut them up into joints, and fry them nicely with a piece of butter, flour, and sliced onions. Cover them with four quarts boiling water; season to taste with spices and salt, and simmer four hours; strain it, and add ketchup and a little Holyrood or " Hai-vie's sauce." Two wine glassful of port wine is an improvement to the flavour, and a little cayenne pepper. CARROT SOUP. Two pounds of mutton, six large good carrots, four large onions minced; boil two hours. Take out the can-ots, mash and pulp them through a sieve, add them to the soup, thicken with flour, and add a breakfast cup of cream. Season with salt and white pepper.47 SOUPS. ONION SOUP Is made the same way, only instead of carrots a great many onions. MOCK TURTLE SOUP. The half of a calf's-head is sufficient for a tureen of mock turtle, if a good one; but a half-fed one suits equally well. After soaking and well-washing it, put it on to boil with a small knuckle of ham (about two pounds weight), carrot, turnip, celery, parsley, onions, and a few sweet herbs (that is, sweet marjoram, lemon thyme, and sweet basil, which should predominate), peppercorns, and a few cloves. When they have all boiled together one hour, take out the head; take off the skin by itself, and cut it in rather oblong small pieces. This should resemble the tripe of the turtle. Cut the meat, including the tongue, after skinning it, in neat small pieces. Return all the bones to the soup, and let all boil slowly together another hour. Strain and add the meat. Boil a quarter of an hour; and thicken with a spoonful of flour, and one dessert-spoonful of curry powder. Add a few glasses Madeira or any other wine you please, and one dozen small forcemeat and egg balls.—See Force-Meat Eecipe. LEEK SOUP. Truss a large fowl as for boiling; put it on with cold water and a small piece of mutton, to make it richer. Slice a great many leeks, to make the soup quite thick with them, and season with pepper and salt. Make up about half-a-dozen of suet balls with oatmeal instead of flour, and boil them in the soup. To prevent them breaking, it is best to tie them separately into pieces of muslin. The fowl may be served whole in the soup, taken48 SOUPS. 4 out of tureen, and carved, to be helped out with it if desired, and French dried plums served in the soup instead of suet balls. MUTTON BROTH. Three or four pounds of mutton (the shoulder or fore- quarter is best for broth), one small turnip, one carrot cut into dice, a carrot grated, four onions, a little chopped parsley, season with salt and a little white pepper, and thicken with a cup of barley and pease. The meat is put on with cold water, with the barley and pease, and when coming through the boil skimmed carefully. Add the carrots and turnip; and in half an hour the onions and parsley. Boil all together slowly without stirring them, three hours; let them stand half an hour to settle by the fire; and then dish. The mutton is served with a few cut ' turnips and carrots round it, that have been boiled in the soup ; a little of the top of the' soup is put over the meat for sauce. BEEF BROTH Is made of any nice boiling-piece (the nine holes or runner, is very good for broth), about thres or four pounds ; put it on with a cup of barley and pease. When boiling, skim. Mince a small cabbage, or stock of German greens, two large onions or leeks, a small turnip, and two carrots, cut into dice, and a Uttle parsley. About three hours is enough, and it is aU the better of standing a short time before dishing. A dish of well boiled potatoes, steamuig hot, are served to be used to the boiled beef, without any other vegetables. SHEEP-HEAD BROTH. Get the head and trotters from the butcher, singed and split up. Take out the brains and put them into a b&siu49 SOUPS. with cold water and salt; pour hot water over the head, and a handful of washing-soda. Cover close, and in halt an hour it will be quite easily cleaned with a knife, scrape them thoroughly, and lay them in salt and water to soak. Put on to boil, well covered with cold water. Add a cupful of barley and pease, a few onions cut into dice, a carrot and turnip, with a very little pai'sley; boil slowly three hours. To be dished with the head spread out, and the trotters around, with a few slices of boiled carrot and turnip and brain cakes.—See Recipe for Brain Cakes. CHICKEN SOUR—No. I. Truss a pair of chickens as for boiling; after soaking them well, and blanching them in hot water; put them on to boil with cold water, and skim very well when coming a-boil; tie two blades mace, and a dessert-spoonful of white peppercorns in your spice bag, and put them in; boil slowly one hour. Take out the chickens, and put in a cupful of washed Carolina rice; boil a quarter of an hour. Chop a table-spoonfal of parsley, and boil it in a saucepan one minute, with soda (the size of a small pea) and salt; strain it and have it ready in the tureen. Serve the chickens with good white sauce. CHICKEN SOUP.—No. II.—White. Have a pair of chickens, well washed and soaked, boiled an hour, with a muslin bag of bruised white peppercorns and mace; a few pieces of the white part of celery minced. Take out the chickens, and skin them; take the meat from the bones, put the bones and skin into the stock pot, and pound or mince the meat very fine; take out the spice bag, and add the meat; thicken with corn-flour, and stir in a50 SOUPS. one pint of cream; season with salt and a little cayenne, and more white pepper if necessary; simmer for half an hour; strain it. WHITE OYSTER SOUP. Eour pounds knuckle of veal, one turnip and carrot, a few onions, and a few stalks of the white pai-t of celery, white peppercorns and mace; boil slowly three hours ; strain carefully. Next day put it on to come through the boil; skim it; beard one hundred oysters; strain the juice, and add them with the juice to the boilmg soup. Two table-spoonfuls corn-flour for thickening, and one pint of good cream. Milk may be substituted for cream, and half a hundred oysters is sufficient for some tastes. ASPARAGUS SOUP. Two bunches of asparagus cut in small pieces, added to clear brown or white soup. VEGETABLE MARROW SOUP. Boil a marrow (two pounds weight), for half an hour; peel it and take away the seeds and fibres, and pulp the marrow through a sieve in a tureen of nice rich white soup. PEA SOUP Is generally made with a knuckle of ham, but is very good made of beef marrow bones. Soak a pound of spUt pease in cold water over night. Put them to boil with the meat or bones, and boil slowly three hours, with four large onions minced and two lai-ge grated carrots, and a bag of spices, consisting of a few bruised black and Jamaica, pep- percorns. Thicken with a spoonful of common flour, it not thick enough; take but the bones and dish, adding saltSOUPS. 5i and any otliei- spice it requires. Toast or fry a slice of bread; cut it into dice, without the crust, and put them on the top of the soup in tureen. PEA SOUP.—No. II. Put on all the ingredients at once, adding to the fore- going recipe, carrot, turnip, onions, celery, and parsleyj when boiled three hours, pulp through a sieve; return it to the fire to boil up, and serve tho same as above, with the sippets in the tureen. ARTICHOKE SOUP. Two or three pounds of artichokes, boiled and pulped through a sieve, and stirred into a tureen of rich white soup. SPINAGE SOUP. A quarter of a peck of spinage, a handful of parsley, two carrots, two onions, one large turnip, one bunch of celery, a little common thyme, boiled one hour; strain and pulp the vegetables through a coarse sieve; knead four ounces butter in flour, into a firm ball, and stir it into the boiling soup until dissolved. Season with pepper and salt. TURNIP SOUP. Two pounds of turnip, one pound of potatoes, half a pound of onions, one table-spoonful of flour, two ounces of butter, and one cupful of cream. Put the butter on to boil with two quarts and a half of cold water; the turnip cut into dice, the onions minced, and the potatoes cut up into pieces. Simmer slowly one hour; bruise the flour very smoothly, and stir it in with the cream; give one boil up. Season to taste with white pepper and salt, and serve toast with it.SOUPS. 52 VEGETABLE AND RICE SOUP. Cut half a pound of turnips into dice; grate half a pound of carrots; cut up half a pound of potatoes, along with four ounces of rice. Put them all on to boil slowly one hour in one quart of water, with two ounces of butter, and pep- per and salt to taste. Add a pint of milk, boil a few minutes more and serve. POTATO SOUP.—No. I Each potato is pared and cut up into six or eight pieces, and put on to boil with cold water. Put in two ounces of good dripping or butter, a large carrot grat«d, a few onions minced, with pepper and salt to taste. Boil slowly an hour. Roast beef bones make excellent potato POTATO SOUP.—No. II. Simmer, for two hours, two pounds of mutton in two quarts of water; with one turnip and two carrots, four onions, a blade of mace, a tea-spoonful of white pepper, salt to taste, and four pounds of potatoes. Take out the mutton and strain the soup, pressing the vegetables through a sieve; return to the fire, and when through the boil stir in one pint of good thick cream. It must be nicely seasoned, and is sometimes curried by stii-ring in dessert-spoonful of curry powder. MULLIGATAWNY SOUP. Take a couple of fowls, boil them an horn- in three quarts of water, with a little white pepper and salt. Take out the fowls and cut all the meat from the bones m neat small pieces Boil the meat in the soup a quarter of an hour ; add a pint of milk, and a table-spoonful of curry. CurrySOUPS. 53 the soup according to the taste of the persons who are to partake of it. Four pounds of veal will do instead of fowls. VENISON SOUP. Four pounds of venison, the coarse or sinewy parts, witi any trimmings you may have; a little celery, a turnip, carrot, onions, and herbs. Put on in four quarts of water, with pepper, a little cayenne, and salt to taste. Boil slowly two hours; strain the soup, and pick the meat from the bones; mince it very fine, or pound it, and stir it amongst the soup, with flour and two ounces of butter. Grate in the rind of half a lemon, with the juice; a little red currant jelly, and a glass of port or claret. GAME SOUPS From bii'ds are only made when they are veVy plentiful, and the expense of them does not require to be taken into consideration. They are made exactly as the venison soup. The flesh is pounded or minced, and a Httle meat of some kind may be added to make the soup richer. FISH SOUP. Four pounds of codlings, or small haddocks, skinned, and the flesh taken from the bones. Put the bones, with two quarts of water, a little parsley, and a few onions on to boil; add a little white pepper, salt, and one blade mace; boil slcwly one hour. Strain and add one pint of milk, one table-spoonful of flour, and four ounces of butter; cut the flesh into neat pieces, and add them; boil all together a quarter of an hour, - Put a little chopped parsley into the tureen.54 SOUPS. LOBSTER SOUP. Stock is made of three pounds of fish as above; strain it, and add the meat of one or two lobsters, either pounded or minced very fine. BEEF TEA. This is generally made for an invalid. Half a pound of nice juicy beef is enough to make at once; as it must be made every time it is wanted. Cut it into small pieces, and cover it with two breakfast cupfuls of cold water; let it simmer very slowly one hour, when it should be reduced one half; season with salt only; remove any fat, and strain it for use. SAGO AND EGG SOUP. (Beneficial to the Chest and Throat.) Soak and wash two ounces of sago; stir it into two quarts of good boiling white soup stock; simmer it one half hour; add a little seasoning to taste; beat up the yolks of three eggs; pour over them a tea-cupful of hot cream, and a glass of wine, also a lump of sugar. Stir into the soup and serve. WHITE SOUP May be made in the same way as the recipe given for white oyster soup, without oysters, and enriched by adding the beaten yolks of two or three eggs when ready, to be poured into the tureen. PLAIN WHITE SOUP May be made from the boilings of any white meat, either mutton, poultry, or veal (if good enough), when to be used, thicken with corn flour, milk, or cream; take a large handful of parsley leaves, wash and mince them; just55 SOUPS. scald them iu boiling water with carbonate of soda and salt, and stir into the soup. RICE SOUP. Wash a nice large fowl and two pounds neck or shoulder of mutton, until the blood is well soaked from them. Boil slowly, with sufficient water, add a grated carrot and a handful of young shallots cut up, for an hour and a-half; add two ounces of rice and simmer another half-hour; when done, stir in a cup of minced parsley, season with pepper and salt. RICE SOUP.—Simply Made. Wash well and soak for an hour two ounces of Caro- lina rice. Measure a tureenful of either brown or white soup stock; simmer the rice in it half-an-houi". ALMOND SOUP. Take four pounds of veal, four quarts of water, a small piece of caiTot and turnip, two onions, a few stalks of celeiy, and a handful of parsley leaves; bring them slowly through the boil, and scum very carefully; add two blades of mace, a teaspoonful white pepper j)ease, and a tablespoonful of salt; simmer very gently three hours, and strain. When wanted for dinner, take the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs; bruise them quite smooth, with half-a-pound of ground sweet almonds, and a breakfast cupful of good thick cream. Stir this into the boiling soup; if not of a thick creamy consistence, thicken, with a little corn flour or arrowroot. TURTLE SOUP. Take the turtle from the water the evening before it is wanted, lay it on its back in the morning, tie its feet, LSOUPS. 56 cut off the head, and hang it up to bleed, remove the scales and cut it open, take out all the meat, soak the white meat by itself in salt and water, cut off the fins, keep them separate, keep the imide or gut separate also, put all the refuse meat into a soup pot, with sufficient water, a turnip, carrot, celery, parsley, a few onions, and a bunch of sweeb herbs, including a predominance of basil, a seasoning of mace, nutmeg, cloves, salt, and white pep- per; boil them gently for three hours. The gut having been cut up and well washed is simmered until quite tender, and cut into narrow stripes; the white meat is stewed with the lungs and heart, cut into small square pieces, reserving a portion for cutlets. Add these to the strained soup, and also a portion of the gi-een fat of the turtle, and thicken with arrowroot; add half a pint of wine, a dozen forcemeat balls, also a dozen egg balls {see Recipes). Turtle fins make a nice corner dish, as also the cutlets {see Recipes). KICE SOUP. Simmer for half an hour four ounces of rice, in two quarts of good well seasoned white stock; beat the yolks of four eggs, pour them into a tureen, and mix well with them a cup of cream, pour the soup over them, stirring them all the time. GREEN PEA SOUP. Soak two pounds of the large marrowfat pease over night in cold water; drain the water from them; cover them with four quarts- of water, and boil gently three hours, with a good marrow bone, and two or thi-ee pounds neck of mutton, a large grated carrot, some bits of celery,SOUPS. 57 broken into small pieces, t\^o minced onions, and a season- ing of pepper and salt to taste : take out the meat, and strain the soup through a c\illender; return in a clean pan to the fire ; stir in a breakfastcup of cream ; if necessary^ to thicken it, do so with corn-flour or arrowroot; a thick slice of bread boiled in the soup, and passed through the cullender with the soup thickens it suflEiciently. GREEN PEA SOUP. Soak a pound of large old pease over night, in cold water ; soak also a small knuckle of ham in warm water, an hour; scrape and wash it well; put it on to boil with, the pease, covered with four quarts of water, a tea-spoonful of ground white pepper, two handsful of well-washed spin- age, a few onions, a small piece of sugar, a few mint leaves, and a slice, of bread to thicken it; it will be ready in three hours to press through the sieve; return it to the fire, and add a pint of young green pease; simmer ten minutes more, add salt to taste. The mint may be omitted if disliked, and the soup may be made with four ounces of butter, instead of the ham. OYSTER SOUP. Make the stock with fish the same in every way as fish soup {See Recipe for making it), instead of the pieces of fish, stir amongst the soup half a hundred bearded oysters, and the strained juice. CRAB SOUP Is made the same way as lobster soup. Any sort of shell- fish may be made into soup the same way. MUSSEL SOUP, Get a good quantity of mussels, wash them very clean, HSOUPS. 58 put them into a large stew pan, cover them close, and let them simmer in their own gravy until they open. Pick them out of the shells and beard them; strain the juice through a very fine sieve or through muslin to the mussels, simmer them, season to taste with pepper, very little salt, and powdered mace, for half an hour. Add a pint of milk, and when boiling, knead four ounces of butter with flour and stir into the boiling soup, taking care that it does not get lumpy, when it is ready to serve. It may also be made with fish stock, the same as lobster or crab. PARTRIDGE SOUP. Make three quarts of nice brown soup with two pounds of nice juicy beef {see Brown Soup Jiecipe). Having cut off the flesh'from the breasts of two or three pai-tridges; add the remains and giblets to the stock, with a slice of ham fried; cut the meat into nice small pieces, flour and fry them slightly in the pan which has fried the ham, drain them quite free from grease, and boil them in the soup, when ready for table, for about twenty minutes. Cut vegetables as for Soup Jullienne look very pretty, having been cooked separately and added to the soup before serving; the stock must be quite clear. Have two or three glasses of port wine in the tureen. FISH. Fresh fish of all kinds should be prepared for cooking at least a few hours before it is wanted. Wash it thoroughly, and lay it in salt and water an hour; wipe it with a cloth.FISH. 59 sprinkle salt over it, and lay it on a sieve to drain. If for fi'ying, brush them over with beat egg, and fine sifted bread crumbs, mixed with a little white pepper and salt. SALMON. Put a table-spoonful of salt, and a ciipful of vinegar in a fish-pan of boiling water; if a very large fish in tepid or cold water, according to the size; place the fish on the drainer, and p^^t it into the pan. If a good sized fish, it will take from half an hour to three quarters. Try it by inserting a skewer through to the bone at the thickest part; if it feels free at the bone it is done. Place the drainer across the pan, cover the fish with a folded napkin, and place the cover over it until wanted. Garnish with a little nice green parsley; it may be garnished with cut lemon, or in various other ways. Nothing looks so nice as the fresh green parsley. Some remove the scales from the fish before boiling it, but it looks much better when this is not done. Cover the ashet in which it is dished with a neatly folded napkin. Use good melted butter sauce, with the juice of a lemon. Lobster, shrimp, or cucumber sauce may also be served with salmon, and the dish may be garnished with sliced cucumber or sliced lemon and parsley; nice young green pease and early potatoes are delicious accompaniments. SLICES OF SALMON.—(Boiled.) Place them on the drainer, with boiling water sufficient to cover them; fifteen minutes will do them. Cover them with butter sauce when sent to table, with a little parsley round the edge of the dish.60 FISH. BROILED SALMON STEAK OR CUTLET. Broil the cutlets over a clear fire, turning them fre- quently; ten minutes will do them. Serve them on a hot dish; sprinkle a little fine salt and pepper over them, and a small piece of butter on each slice. SALMON SLICES DONE IN PAPER. Wrap each slice in writing paper, and fry them in a good deal of lard; they must be seasoned first with white pepper and salt. Those who like them done in this way, choose to have them served in the paper; then their own juice and flavour are preserved. Another Wat. Season slices of salmon nicely with white pepper and salt; roll them in paste made in the proportions of four ounces butter to eight ounces flour, or cover them entirely with nicely mashed potatoes, and fry them. Boiled salmon is partaken of with vinegar when cold. BAKED SALMON. Cut salmon grilse into slices: fill a pie dish, seasoning them as you fiU it. A cupful of vinegar, the same of water, and a few pieces of butter put over them; dredge them with flour, and bake half an hour. BAKED SALMON.—No. II. Slice what quantity of salmon is necessary, chop a few parsley leaves very small, as also a shallot, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg to taste, mix all well together; place slices of salmon in the bottom of a pie-dish, and a portion of this mixture alternately, with pieces of butter over each inFISH. 61 row; bake them in an oven for half or three quarters of an hour. Dish the fish on a flat dish, and pour caper or tomato sauce over them. BAKED SALMON.—No. III. Cut a few slices of salmon about an inch thick; heat an ashet, and rub it over with butter j lay the fish in very neatly; edge the dish with a very thin rim of smooth mashed potatoes, brush it over with beat yolk of egg, and place a row of nice large oysters on it, dust all over with fine salt and white pepper; brush the fish and oysters over with egg also, and what of the potato border is seen cover them all over with very fine white crumbs, nicely seasoned; pour a very little water into the dish, but not so as to touch the crumbs, put it into an oven; when the crumbs are a little dry, so as to be quite fastened, pour melted butter over them, and when nicely browned, add a glass of port wine, and the jiiice of a lemon. Put the dish into another ashet, a size larger, with a neatly folded napkin over it. SMALL SALMON TROUT Are brushed over with beat yolk of egg, and fine bread- crumbs; fried quickly in boiling lard, or split up, and either boiled or fried. Or, having boned them, spread over bread-crumbs, pepper, salt, a little butter, and chopped parsley. Roll them up and do them in a baking dish, as baked salmon. ■ REMAINS OF SALMON May be made use of in the following manner:—Mince it, mix with a few bread-crumbs, a little flour, a little chopped parsley, pepper, and salt (those who choose it may add a62 FISH. little curry). Bind all together with an egg, and make them up into round balls, or flat cakes, and fry them. Or a ]iretty dish may be made by filling a mould with the best pieces, and filling in savoury jelly. To be turned out when cold. KIPPERED SALMON. Having split up the fish, scale it, but don't wash it. Mix together one decsert-spoonful of salt, one of sugar; saltpetre and Jamaica pepper, of each half a dessei-t- spoonful; rub the fish on both sides thoroughly with this mixture. Place it between two boards, under a weight, for three days ; stretch it on two wooden skewers, and hang it up to dry. It is cut in oblong pieces, and broiled for breakfast; butter is added at table. If kept until very dry, it must be soaked over night in cold water, and fried- COLLARED OR ROLLED SALMON. Scale or bone about four pounds of salmon, rub it all over both sides with a seasoning of salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg or mace (if the flavour is not disliked); roll it firmly up, and bind it with broad tape; put it into boiling water, with vinegar, salt, and pepper; when quite done, serve either anchovy sauce or melted butter with it; if to be served cold, boil the gravy in which it was cooked until reduced pretty much; put more vinegar to it, and pour over it when cold. COLLARED SALMON.—(A Richer Way for Potting.) Scale and bone the half of a large salmon, cut oflt the head and a good piece of the tail, skin them, take all the meat from the tail-piece, mince it and thirty large oysters,FISHr 63 make tliem into a nice forcemeat, witli the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, two ounces bread crumbs; season nicely with a little mace, nutmeg, ground white pepper, salt, and sweet herbs. Brush the fleshy side of the fish with beaten yolk of egg, and spread the forcemeat all over it; roll it up, and bind it firmly with broad tape; put it into a pan of boiling water, with vinegar and salt; when quite done put it into the jar you mean to keep it in, boil up the water in vs'hich it was cooked, add more vinegar and spices to it, and pour over when cold; melted lard poured over them when in the jar preserves them for a long time. Instead of binding it with tape, it is much more con- venient to skewer it firmly and place it at once into the jar, with just sufficient water and vinegar to cover it, and the spices; put the lid on the jar, and place it into a pot of boiling water, or bake it; it will take an hour's sim- mering. STEWED SALMON.—Genevese Mode. Stew a small grated carrot, a few parsley leaves, a bay leaf, two minced shallots, a blade of mace, and a seasoning of pepper and salt in water until a good flavour is extracted; strain it, return it to the fire, and thicken with butter, flour, and a little milk; place the slices of salmon in it, and simmer them very gently for ten minutes, lift them out with a slice when dishing them, and pour the sauce over them; the juice of a lemon, and a slight flavouring of essence of anchovies, added to the sauce ; if liked, also a little wine. CUERIED SALMON. For two slices of salmon, take a breakfast-cup of clear gi-avy stock, simmer a small onion in it for ten minutes,FISH. 64 take out the onion and stir into the gravy a dessert- spoonful curry powder, a slight seasoning of Harvey and anchovy sauce, the juice of a small lemon, salt and cayenne to taste, and a piece of butter ; put the slices of salmon into this curried sauce, and in ten minutes they will be ready; lift them out with a slice, and pour the gravy over them. Remains of salmon are nice used up in this way. PICKLED SALMON. Take the remains of a large salmon, when it comes from the table. Pick out the bones and all the skin; put it into a deep dish; boil part of the liquor that boiled the fish with a good quantity of vinegar, a few black and Jamaica pepper pease, a very small quantity of cayenne, and when cold, pour over the salmon. The cold salmon may also be pressed into small jelly pots, covered with clarified butter, or melted lard, to be turned out, when wanted, for luncheon or breakfast; dish with savoury jelly round it. See /ndea3—Savoury Jelly. FRIED SAL5I0N CUTLETS. Take about two pounds of the tail piece of salmon, skin it, and take the flesh off the bone, slice it into neat sized cutlets, dip them into beaten yolks of eggs, and dredge them over with fine dry seasoned bread crumbs, fry them a nice pale brown colour, egg and crumb also, some fine large oysters, fry and heap them in the centre of the dish with the cutlets neatly round them. Fish sa-uce flavoured with lemon juice, or vinegar, may be served in a sauce boat.FISH. Qr-y STEWED SALMON CUTLETS. Prepare tlie cutlets iu the same manner as in the foregoing recipe, do not egg and crumb them, melt a piece of butter in a stew pan, mince very finely a handful of nice green parsley ; strew them over the butter with a Httle pepper and salt, place the cutlets in the pan with the juice of a lemon squeezed over them, cover up close, place them on a hot-plate for about twenty minutes; dish them neatly without breaking over the gravy. BAKED SALMON CUTLETS. Butter a flat ashet, and proceed in the same manner as. in the foregoing recipe ; to be baked in the oven. CRIMPED SALMON. Cut the salmon in slices about three inches thick, lay It in very cold salt and Avater for two hours, wash it well out, and put it immediately into boiling water, well salted and skimmed ; simmer it thus for fifteen minutes ; serve with it good butter sauce, with vinegar or lemon juice. SALMON BAKED WITH POTATOES. Pare and cut in half some potatoes, parboil and drain the water from them, dust them with pepper and salt : and put them in a baking dish with very little water : place a trivet in the dish, on which, put a middle cut of . salmon; melt some butter and pour over the salmon, and I bake m the oven; the potatoes may be mashed. NoTE._ror other dishes of salmon see Made Dishes. SALMON TROUT BOILED. Boil the salmon trout in salt and water until done; re-GO FISH. move the skin, and pour over them good butter sauce, in wliicli a tablespoonful of tomato sauce has been well stirred, also a little good vinegar. SALMON TROUT BROILED. Split the salmon trout down the back, flatten them, brush them over inside with oil or butter, dust them over with pepper, salt, and minced parsley; double them and broil them nicely over a clear fire; they may be wrapped in oiled paper; cut into fillets, and served in the same manner as salmon fillets. TURBOT. Soak it well in salt and water to can-y off the slime, and make one or two slits across the back to prevent the white skin side from breaking; lay it on the drainer with the white side uppermost, cover it with cold water and salt; let it come slowly through the boil, and half an hour wiU do it. Garnish with parsley and lobster coral; serve lobster sauce. Plain melted butter is very good, but lobster sauce is generally preferred.—See Sauces. The remains of this fish are very nice done as oysters are scaUoped. Butter a small pie-dish; put a layer of the best pieces of the fish, and another of bread crumbs, strew over a little pepper and salt, and small pieces of butter, filling up the dish in this manner. Brown m the oven, and when firm turn out; if not bro^vn on the other side, brown it before the fire. Or it may be re-warmed by put tin- the fish into a small basin, covering it with a plate, and steaming it in a pan of boiling water, dishing it when warm, and pouring over it a little melted butter, or the sauce left the previous day.FISH. TURBOT ROASTED OR BAKED. Brush a nice small sized turbot over with beaten yolk of egg, dredge over with fine dry crumbs, season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg; melt a piece of butter in a baking tray, and place the fish on it, with the white side uppermost, of course, when the yolk of egg has become dry, so that the crumbs adhere quite firmly; pour melted butter overit, and when of anice brown colouritwill be quite cooked; half an hour should do it. Dish the turbot, and keep it hot while the sauce is being made. A good gravy wUl be found in the baking dish, to which add a table- spoonful good ketchup, half a tea-cupful of oyster juice, a Uttle cayenne, white pepper, and grated nutmeg. Stir all well together, and strain it; put into a saucepan, with a piece of butter, and thicken with flour; serve in a sauce tureen. This sauce may be made much richer by the ad- dition of Avine and oysters, and the sauce may be thick- ened with the beaten yolk of eggs instead of flour, and a httle cream and lemon juice. It may be used cold, and is very nice with vinegar. FILLETS OF TURBOT. Cut up a small turbot into convenient sized squares or • oblong pieces, soak them in salt and water a few hours, wipe them quite dry, brush them over with beaten yolk of egg, and dust them well with flour; fry them nicely in .good olive oil until of a beautiful brown; drain them • thoroughly from the oil; serve on a napkin, and in a sauce- < boat; a good butter sauce, flavoured with nutmeg and lemon juice. When the oil is objectionable, they may be boiled m lard instead, and covered with fine dry crumbsG8 FISH. instead of the flour. {See Made Dishes for various ways )f making ujj nice dishes of Tur'jot.) FILLETS OF TUiiBOT.—Baked. Out the meat in fillets from the bone with a sharp knife, lip them in yolk of egg and nice well seasoned crumbs with minced parsley; rub an a-shet over with butter and place the fillets neatly on the dish, put them in the oven and pour incited butter over them when they have been a short time in the oven to dry the surface. When to be served pour over them butter sauce with pounded lobster meat stirred into it, and lemon juice; place the ashet in which it has been cooked within another with a folded napkin over it. HALIBUT Is cooked and served as turbot. SOLES.—Boiled. Skin and clean the soles nicely, place them on the fish drainder, and cover them with water, add a little salt; boil ten minutes, and pour a white-sauce over them. SOLES.—Fried. Skin and clean them, brush them over with beat egg, and fine sifted bread crumbs, mixed with salt and white pepper; fry them in lard, a light, beautiful brown. (Keep a coarse clean cloth for the purpose of draining fish on^ When the soles have been drained from the lard, dish them on a napkin. Sauce,-Melted butter, with the least flavour of sherry, and a squeeze of lemon m it; or cucumber sauce.—See Sauces.FISH. 09 BAKED SOLES. Lay them, after cutting them in neat square pieces, in rows, in a pie dish, with bread crumbs, or a dust of flour, butter, pepper and salt between every row of fish; pour over a cup of milk; put butter over the top, and bake half an hour. They are best served in the pie dish, with a napkin round it, but look better dished neatly on a flat dish, Avith the sauce jjoured over them. SOLES.—Filleted, Skin and clean the soles and with a sharp knife remove the flesh from each side of the bone, cut tliem in six or eight pieces, egg, crumb, and fry them, boil the head and bones in water for half an hour, strain it, and add a small bunch of parsley, a few sweet herbs, ketchup and seasoning to taste, and a piece of butter; simmer for twenty minutes, strain it, thicken with flour, and serve in sauce boat Garnish with small fish, forcement balls, and sliced lemon. FILLETED SOLES. Cut the soles in fillets as previous recipe, prepare the sauce with the addition of a little wine, if approved of, and, instead of frying them, simmer the fish in the sauce for fifteen minutes COD'S HEAD AND SHOULDERS. Having prepared and skinned it for boiling, cut off the tail part, leaving a handsome piece; put the tail into it, to stuff" it and keep it in shape; bind it firmly with tape, and put it into a fish-pan of boiling water, with a little salt, and vinegar. Boil it half an hour; undo the binding, and dish it. Cover with good oyster sauce.70 FISH. JBOAST OR BAKED COD'S HEAD AND SHOULDERS. Clean tborouglily and skin a good sized cod ; cut off a good piece of the tail; scrape the flesh from the bone, and mince it. Add a few bread crumbs, a small yjiece of butter, and afew parsley leaves; season it well with white pepper and salt, add a beaten egg, or a little milk. Mix well together, and stuff the cod with this mixture ; egg and bread-crumb it. Baste it well with butter while roasting; three quarters of an hour should be sufficient, at a good fire. If baked in the oven, place it in a deep earthenware dish, with a little water in it, and prepared as above. The favourite sauce is good melted butter, with a very little ketchup, and port wine in it. Good bron^n gravy sauce is suitable; and those who wish to be economical find sufficient sauce in the roasting-pan, with the addition of a little seasoning. Garnish with sliced lemon and parsley. COD.—EOLLED OR COLLAKED. Skin a good sized cod, split it open and bone it; spread stuffing all over it, as in the foregoing recipe. Roll and skewer it, brush it all over with beat egg, fine crumbs, pepper and salt; melt butter and pour over it. Eoast or bake it. If baked, pour a little water into the baking- dish, shake in a little flour, and a quarter hundred oystere, bearded and their juice. This is sufficient for gi-avy. SMALL CODLINGS OR HADDOCKS. Make n, pretty dish done in the same way. The small rolled fish are placed round the dish, and the sauce in the centre; an egg boiled hard, minced very fine, and strewn over the sauce.FISH. 71 MIDDLE GUT OF COD.—Roasted. Take a middle cut of cod, skin it, brush it over with beaten egg. cover it thoroughly with sifted well seasoned crumbs, mixed with parsley; melt a piece of butter in the baking dish, and place the fish in it; it must be cooked in the oven, as in doing it before the fire the underside is never sufiiciently cooked. When the crumbs have become firm on the fish, melt a piece of butter in a saucepan, and pour over it; half an hour will do it with a good oven ; dish it without breaking, add seasoning and ketchup to the gravy in the dish, and jjour round it. MIDDLE CUT OF COD.—Boiled. The fish may be skinned if desired, but as many prefer it with the skin, it may be dressed in this manner :— Pour a little boiling water over it, scraping it quickly to remove the blackness, put it immediately in boiling salt and water; from twenty minutes to half an hour will boil it. Served with good butter or oyster sauce. SLICES OF COD. Skin a piece of cod and slice it; it may be fried, plainly boiled, or stewed with butter; if to be fried, roll the alices in flour, and fry in dripping, or egg, and bread crumb them, and fry in lard or oil. COD PIE. Fill a pie-dish with slices of cod, dust pepper and salt over each row, finely minced parsley, and small pieces of butter, shake a little fiour over them, pour in at the one side a little milk or water for sauce; a little lemon juice or vinegar may be added if liked ; the addition of a few oysters is an improvement. Cover with a tlain short72 FISH. crust, and bake for half an hour; a potato cover is suitable for the dish. Nicely mashed potatoes with raw yolk of egg stirred amongst them, and laid neatly over the dish, ess and crumb it over, and bake half an hour, or until the cover is nicely browned—a little ketchup or any other fish saiice may be added at pleasure. SALT COD, LING, OR TUSK. Cut into pieces, and soak twelve hou.rs in cold water; soak it an hour in hot water, scrape it clean, and put it on witli warm water, and simmer until soft. Take off the skin, and remove the bones, and pour a rich egg sauce over it; or, boil two eggs very hard, either slice or mince them, strew them over the fish, and pour butter sauce over them. Some like a little mustard in the sauce, and others curry powder. HADDOCKS.—Stuffed and Roasted. Take two haddocks, three pounds weight each, clean and scale them thoroughly without skinning them, stuff them with fish forcemeat, and skewer up the slit, brush them over with beaten egg, cover with fine seasoned bread crumbs, and bake them in a roasting pan with butter in it, when the crumbs are dried, baste well with the butter in the pan; half an hour will bake them; serve with them a nice brown gravy sauce, and garnish with lemon and parsley. HADDOCKS.—Boiled. Clean and scrape the scales from them; put them on with boiling water, a little salt and vinegar in the water. Twenty minutes will do them. Serve plain melted butter in P. sauce boat; if skinned, th.e .sauce maybe poured over them.FISH. 73 SMALL HADDOCKS OR WHITINGS Are skinned, the tail pushed through the eyes, brushed over with beat egg, sifted crumbs strewn over them, a little pepper and salt, and boiled in lard. A few minutes does them. They should be of a beautiful brown colour, drained on the fish cloth; not the least greasy. Put a bowl reversed on your ashet, cover it and j^our ashet with a napkin, and dish the fish neatly leaning on the bowl, with a large bunch of parsley on the top. BAKED HADDOCKS. Place them in a pie-dish., with milk and seasoning as in stewing them, and cook them in the oven, or before the fire in a Dutch oven or despatch j or jalace sliced fish on a flat ashet, arranged to have the heads and tails on the top. Brush them over with beat egg, add pepper and salt; and dredge a little flour over them; pour in a cup of water, and pour melted butter over them. Put a border of rice, or beat potatoes round the dish. Glaze the border with the egg also. Bake in the oven until of a nice brown. Oyster sauce may be served in a sauce boat. FRIED HADDOCKS. Skin small haddocks, and cut the flesh in., neat fillets from the bone, brush them over with oil, and flour them, or egg and crumb, and fry a nice brown colour. BROILED MACKEREL. After taking away the insides and gills wipe them with a clean cloth, but do not wash them, open them down the back, and pour in a little pepper, salt, and oil, or melted butter; flour and broil them nicely both sides. icFISH. 74 MACKEREL—Baked. Clean the mackerel and stuff them -with fish forcemeat made with the flesh of one, place them head and tail alternately in a pie dish, dust over each row a little butter, flour, pepper, salt, and miuced parsley leaves; when the dish is filled pour in a little vinegar, and bJie balf-an- hour. Let them be browned nicely all over the top row ; they may be served in the pie dish, within a larger pie dish, covered with a napkin, or dished neatly in an ashet. M ACRE BEL—Fried. A nice way of cookiug mackerel is, after they have been cleaned, and soaked in salt and water a few hours,' split them down the back, and remove the bones as neatly as possible, .-pvead over the inside bread crumbs, minced parsley, pepper and salt, to taste, and moisten with melted butter, dip them over ; brush over the outsides with oil, or melted butter, double them in flour, and fry them nicely, when done squeeze the juice of a lemon over them. PICKLED MACKEREL. For Pickled Mackerel see Pickled Meat. WHITINGS DRESSED WITH WHITE SAUCE. After washing and cleaning them well, lay them in Bait and water a few hours; make a sauce thus : take a little white soup, minced parsley, white pepper, salt, and gi-ated nutmeg, when it boils put in the fish ; boil a little cream, with a piece of butter rolled in flour, beat up the yolk of an egg, dish the fish, add the ingredients to the sauce, stir over the fire, but do not boil it for curdling, pour it over the fish and garnish with lemon.FISH. 75 FRIED WHITINGS AS IN FRANCE. Clean the wliitings witlioiit skinning, score them across slantingly, dip them in milk and flour, fry quite crisp in hot dripping or butter. STURGEON. This fish is either roasted, baked, or fried, as other fish is cooked, but not good boiled. STEWED FISH. Skin and slice small fish, put them into a stew-pan, cover them nearly with either milk or water. Roll a piece of butter in flour, the size of an egg; pick a handful of parsley, mince it, and add, with pepper and salt to taste. Stew gently twenty minutes. ^ CURRIED FISH. All kinds of fish may be curried. Slice and stew it in water, with butter, pepper and salt. Stew a quarter of an hour; dish it neatly; stir in a dessert-spoonf al of curry, and one of flour into the boiling sauce, and pour it over the fish. Serve rice round the edge of the dish; or separately, which is better. SMALL FISH.—Broiled. Small fish are cleaned and hung tip to dry the day before they are wanted, dusted with salt, and the skins left on. Haddocks or whitings are sweetest done this way. Broil them, and sei've quite hot. They are sj)lit open at table and the bone removed, spread over with buttex', and dusted with pepper and salt. POTTED FISH. Herring or salmon are placed in a jar, in slices; be- twiiiii each row, dust over a little flour, white pepper,FISH. 76 salt, aud small pieces of butter; cover with vinegar. Set the jar in a pan of boiling water, closely covered. When done, and quite cold, pour a little melted lard over them; they will keep some time done in this way. SKATE AND FLOUNDERS. Skate may be plain boiled, but as it is a soft fish, aud not generally liked boiled, it is best to fry it. Cut it in small square pieces, dry them very well in a cloth, roll them well in flour and fry them. They are very nice done in a pie-dish and baked. Skate is sometimes cut into long stripes rolled and bound with tape, and boiled, served with parsley and butter sauce over it. Flounders are either cut it square pieces, or, if small, make stripes across the belly with a knife; egg and bread crumb them, or dust over with flour, and fry. ^ SPRATS. Draw out the gut, and wipe them with a cloth; do not wash them. Heat your frying-pan, dust it over with salt, and fry your sprats in the salt alone. HE RRIN GS—Fresh, Are clean washed, and scaled, and are either fried or plain boiled. When sauce is used, which is very seldom, it is parsley and butter sauce; for frying they are generally split open and dusted over with pepper and salt. They are often stewed in slices, with ^^negar to eat cold; but are best done in the oven as mackerel. Salted herrings are plain boiled. Gooseberry sauce is sometimes used with mackerel or fresh herrings.FISH. 77 EELS Are skinned, cut in slices, and are best made into a pie, covered with a light pufF paste; but may be stewed, and served with the gravy poured over them. Fresh water trout are simj^ly fried and served plain. LOBSTERS AND CRABS. Procure them alive, and kill them by putting them into a pot of boiling water; twenty minutes will do them. STEWED LOBSTER. Having boiled the lobster, take out all the meat, cut it in neat pieces, not too small; stew it with a little water or milk; add a little cayenne and white pepper; butter, the size of an egg, made into a ball with fioui-. A quarter of an hour will do them. Dish either as a side or corner disli. It may be served plain, or with a dressed border. —See Gaenishing. DRESSED LOBSTER. Take the meat from the body without breaking off the claws; soak half a slice of bread, without the crust, in cream or milk, and chop it up with the lobster meat. Take half a tea-spoonful of made mustard, a pinch of cayenne and white pepper, a little minced parsley and celery, the yolks of two hard boiled eggs rubbed smooth, and a little butter; mix all very well together and stuff the lobster with it. If too dry, moisten with a little cream. Set it up in its natural form on a neatly folded napkin ; take a small pastry brush and brush the shell over with white of egg, and dust with ground rice throughFISH. 78 a di-edge box. Garaisli with fresh green parsley, and small bunches of the spawn or coral. Cut out the whites of the eggs in small shapes, and lay round it. Serve it on a neatly folded napkin. LOBSTER CUTLETS. Boil a hen lobster, pick out the meat as whole as possible, slice it, egg and bread-crumb it, and fry as other fish. Lay bunches of the coral and green parsley round the dish. LOBSTER CUTLETS. Mince the meat of a boiled lobster, season it nicely with cayenne and white pepper, and a little grated lemon rhind; make into a paste with yolk of egg; form it into small round cutlets. Egg, bread-crumb, and fry them. Stick a small piece of the claw into each when dished; strew the coral all over; or pour a pure white sauce over, and the coral over it, with a wreath of parsley round the dish. CRABS, After boiling, are served either quite plain, in their natural form, and done up exactly as the previous recipe for lobsters, or the claws are broken, and the meat of them added, aud covered on the top with puff-paste, and baked. When done in this way it is called crab pie. For other ways of dishing, see Engraving. OYSTERS STEWED IN THE SHELLS. Wash the oyster shells in water until quite clean, place them on the gridiron over a clear fire, five minutes will cook them to be served in their shells. (See Made Dishes for other dishes of Oysters.)FISH. L OYSTERS Are used in a variety of ways. They are A^ery much liked in the shell, in their own juice, with a little white pepper and vinegar, with nice thin oat cakes, or toast and fresh butter; or, turned out of the shells, bearded, and served in their juice; vinegar and pepper added at table. STEWED OYSTERS. Beard them, strain their juice, and stew them in a small saucepan, with a bit of butter, a blade of mace, and a little white pepper; stew very gently until tender. Shake in a little flour, and take out the mace, and pour over a few toasted sippets, in a flat dish. They are used for sauce, and in a variety of ways, as mentioned in other recijjes. OYSTER CUTLETS.—Entree. Beard and mince one quarter hundred oysters. Mix them with a few bread-crumbs sifted, a pinch of cayenne, and white pepper; add the beaten yolk of an egg. Make it up into a ball, roll it out to the thickness of half an inch, cut out the cutlets, egg and bread crumb them. Fry a nice brown, and serve them on small toasted sippets; pour a brown gravy sauce over them. OYSTER SAUSAGES. Prepare the mixture as in previous recipe, roll then in the form of sausages, egg, bread-crumb, and fry themj serve them either as they are, or with a sauce.80 ROASTING, BOILING, STEWING, BROILING, AND MADE DISHES, FOR SIDE, CORNER BREx^lKFAST, luncheon, or SUPPER DISHES, SAVOURY PUDDINGS, PIES, &c. ROAST BEEF. The best roasting piece is the sirloin. Having a good steady fire made np, let your meat be placed at a distance to be warmed through, before the process of roasting begins. It is better to be hung on a roasting jack than laid in a despatch. A quai'ter of an hour is the general allowance for each pound of meat, but you must try it with a skewer, inserting it at the bone ; if you see the blood oozing out, it is not done enougb. Be sure never to punch it with a fork or skewer except at the bone; remember this particularly, as the j uice flows out of the meat, and renders the roast perfectly dry. Baste it well all the time it is at the fire, and when done strew a very little salt over it; lift a ladleful of the dripping and pour a little of it over tbe roast. Take away a good deal of the dripping from the roasting pan, put a little sa\t and boil- ing water into the pan, and strain a gravy dish full, to be served hot. This is a better plan than sending up the gravy in the dish, which is sometimes annoying to the carver, and very often cold. Those who choose can have it garnished with horse-radish. ROAST RIBS OF BEEF. Ribs of beef are roasted in the same manner as sirloin of beef, a nice Yorkshire pudding, and hoi-se radish sauco are sent to table with it.KOASTING, BOILING, STEWIKG, ETC. 81 L ROAST BEEF.—To Eat like Roast Hare. Put four pounds of the fillet of beef into an earthen- ware dish, and pour over it a glass of port wine and one of vinegar; let it remain a few days; place it in a baking dish, and cover it all over with a rich forcemeat. It may be put before the fire, hut is more conveniently roasted in the oven; baste it with i glass of wine and vinegar, and serve gravy in the dish and red currant jelly. From an hour and a-half to two hours should cook it. ROAST MUTTON. The haunch or hind leg makes a handsome roast; al- most any part may be roasted; the loin and shoulder suit equally well. A saddle of mutton is with some the two loins, and witli others the shoulders and neck. It is all roasted exactly as beef, basting it with its own dripping. When nearly ready, dredge with flour, and allow it to brown; besides its oAvn gravy, some prefer wine, or onion sauce, and for the haunch red currant jelly melted and served in sauce-boats. ROAST SADDLE OF MUTTON. Remove the skin from a saddle of mutton, trim ana truss it nicely, skewer the skin on again; when nearly done, take ofl^the skin again, and dredge the mutton with flour, baste it well, and let it be nicely browned ; serve it with good gravy in the dish, as directed for other roasts, and red currant jelly. ROAST LOIN OF MUTTOJT. Have a loin of mutton jointed properly and roasted in the same manner as the previous recipe, with gravy in the cUsh.82 BOASTING, BOILIKG, STEWING, ETC. ROAST SHOULDER OF MUTTON. Shoulder of mutton is roasted in the same maaner, -with gravy in the dish, and onion sauce, or stewed Spanish onions. ROAST VENISON. The haunch makes the most handsome piece for roast- ing. If the venison is kept for any length of time—as most people prefer to do so—the joint should be washed, by wringing a clean cloth out of hot water and drying it thoroughly; if very bad, it will be improved by brushing it over with vinegar. Put it down to roast, baste it immediately with good melted beef dripping, and baste it well all the time; serve with it good gravy that you have made with any venison trimmings you may have, or good beef gravy, with a little port wine in it. Some persons like sweet sauce, or melted red cm-rant jelly.— See Sauces. ROAST VENISON. Shoulder or neck of venison may be roasted also, and are generally enveloped in a flour and water paste, covered over with greased paper ; they are frequently baked in the oven. For other dishes of venison (^ee Index). ROAST LAMB. Lamb is roasted in the same way as mutton, and served in its own gravy; salt and water are poured into the roasting pan, and then into the dish or sauce-boat Never, on any account, pour salt and boiling water over roasts of any kind; it not only spoils the look of the roast, but the flavour of the outside slices, which are most esteemed. Mint sauce is served also in a sauce tureen.83 EOASTING, BOILINa, STEWING, ETC, ROAST VEAL. The best parts for roasting are the fillet (which is the thick end of the hatinch or gigot), the loin, breast, or shoulder, and require a longer time roasting than other meats; being much drier, they must be well basted, and sauce served with them. The breast and shoulder are often boned and stuffed, with a mixture of what is called veal-stuflang or forcemeats, composed of bread-crumbs, suet, a little minced parsley, and sweet herbs, an egg, pepper and salt, a little of the juice of a lemon and grated rhiud, and a little milk; mix them well, and spread it all over the shoulder or breast, when you have taken out the bone. Eoll it and skewer it iip to keep in the stuff- ing. Roast and baste it well. It takes a long time to do in this way, and is stewed sometimes for half an hour be- fore putting down to roast SHOULDER OF VEAL. Shoulder or neck of veal may be larded and roasted, and is sometimes braised. (See Bkaising.) BOAST LOIN OF VEAL. While roasting, baste well with butter, which makes the sauce, when done, make a nice gravy in the roasting pan, season, and strain it over the veal; and serve force- meat balls in the dish also. ROAST PORK. The loin is a nice roasting piece. The skin is scored neatly; stuff the spaces with a little minced onion and sage, a few bread-crumbs, pepper and salt, and moist«a with milk. In roasting it do not put it down too nearROASTING, BOILING, STEWING, ETC. 84 the fire at first, and baste well all the time. Apple sauce IS served with it, and its own gravy, with the addition of a Little salt and water. ROAST LEG OF PORK. The loin is the richest, bnt the leg the most economical roast, score it in stripes across, a quax-ter of an inch apart, brush all over with salad oil, and hang it on a roasting- jack before a good fire ; baste it very frequently, and sen^e with a gravy made in the dripping pan ; as also a sauce tureenful of well made apple sauce ; when the flavour of sage and onion is desired, a whole onion and a few sage leaves may be put into the dripping pan, and, in the process of roasting and basting, the flavour will be im- pai-ted to the pork ; or serve sage and onion sauce. {See Sauces). LIVER AND BACON. Fry some slices of nice bacon-ham, without overdoing them ; keep them hot; slice the liver, and after washing it well, wipe it dry, flour the slices, and fry in the same pan Avith minced onions, season with pepper and salt, when done put a little flour and water into the pan, and pour over. ROAST SUCKraG-PIG. This is procured from the butcher all ready for cook- ine. Stufi" with the following mixture :—Soak a tliick slice of bread in boiling milk, having removed the crust; beat it up with the yolk of four raw eggs, half a teaspoonful of white pepper, one spoonful of salt, a few sage leaves dried and rubbed down, and minced onions. ]\rix very well, and stufi" the belly, sewing it up ; fold the feet neatly under, and skewer them ; spread a thick coat of sweet85 ROASTING, BOILIIfG, STEWING, ETC. fresh lard over it, and roast it at a distance from the fire at first. It must be well basted all the time it is roastin?: if a month old, it will take two hours. Serve the gravy in the dish, and apple sauce in the tureen. Take out the eyes, and slice a lemon; divide one of the slices, turn it round, and put thein into the eyes, and a small apple or lemon in the mouth; lay slices of lemon round the dish. An agreeable appearance, if possible, should be given to dishes of this sort. It is sometimes served as follows :— The head is cut off and divided, the pig is cut down through the back and spread out, and a half of the head is placed at each end. ROAST OR BAKED OX-HEART. After soaking it well in salt and water to draw out the blood, wipe it quite dry and stuff it with forcemeat; bake or roast it one hour. Serve in its own gravy, and red currant jelly melted. The remains of it may be minced very fine, and prepared as minced coUops. BOILED ROUND OF BEEF. Put the beef into tepid water, and see that it is more than covered; ten or twelve pounds weight will take three hours. Serve a dish of nice tender green or mashed turnip in separate dishes. It is garnished for company with carrot and turnip, cut out in shapes, and boiled in fresh water, put all over the top, and round it. Pour a little of the water in which it was boiled over it when sending it to table. BOILED GIGOT OF MUTTON. Put on to boil with luke-warm water, and boil it very slowly; skim it before it comes through the boil. Two8G ROASTING, BOILING, STEWING, ETC. hours will boil it. Put carrot and turnip sliced round it, or mashed turnip in a corner dish ; pour caper sauce over the meat; or, which is better, serve the caper sauce in a sauce-boat, and pour a little of the gravy in which the meat was boiled over it. BOILED VENISON OR VEAL Is very insipid. It is best stewed, thus :—Put a piece of butter, or good dripping in the bottom of a stew-pan; dust the pan over with flour; dust the meat with flour also, and brown; nearly cover with warm water; put in two whole onions (which must afterwards be taken out) a little white pepper, salt, a little cayenne, the juice and grated rhind of half a lemon, and a glass of port wine. Pour the gravy over the meat when tender, and serve. SMOKED BACON-HAM.—To be Served Hot. Soak a nice bacou-ham in hot water an hour; scrape and wash it well, let it come slowly through the boil, having more than covered it with tepid water. If it ■weighs about twelve pounds, three hours will be sufficient to boil it. Skin it and dust it over with fine sifted brown bread-crumbs when dishing it; if for company garnish it. Green vegetables are the proper garnishing, Brussels sprouts, stewed Savoy cabbage or greens, boiled, chopped up, and put round the dish. HAM—To BE Served Cold. The ham is cooked as above, and skinned while hot When quite cold, glaze it (see Recipe for making Glaze), dust it lightly over with ground rice with a dredge box, and trim the shank bone with a paper ruche. Look the87 ROASTING, BOILIKG, STEWING, ETC. Index for garnisliings, and you will find a variety of ways for di-essing cold liam. BAKED HAM—To be Served eithek Hot or Cold. Soak a nice smoked bacon-ham in tepid water an hour, scrape and wash it well; let it simmer another hour. Having put it over the fire in a pan of tepid water, take it out and wipe it dry ; envelope it in a paste made in the proportion of one half-pound of butter to the pound of flour. Bake it in a slow oven two hours. BOILED SALTED BACON. If dry, soak it half an hour in tepid water, scrape and wash it well; put it on to boil more than covered with tepid water. You will know when it is done by trying it with a fork. Have leeks tied in bunches, and boil them half an hour with the bacon. Greens may be substituted for leeks; serve the vegetables round the bacon. FRIED OR TOASTED BACON. Cut slices from dried bacon as thin as you can cut them, pare the rhind from them, and toast them before the fire, or fry them. COLD BACON OR SMOKED HAM. When a large piece of bacon or smoked ham has been cooked, slices of it may be dipped into beaten yolks of eggs, covered with bread-crumbs, and fried, for a change from using it up cold; a few minutes does them. BACON AND BEANS. The large, broad dry beans are the kind used for this purpose. Soak them a few hours in cold water, and boilROASTING, BOILING, STEWING, ETC. 88 tliem till nearly done, which you will know by trying if they are getting soft; drain the water thoroughly from them, and put them into the pot with the bacon for half an hour. The bacon having been boiled sufficiently, serve the bacon with the beans around it, and some of the gravy with ground white pepper dusted plentifully over. ROLLED BEEF—Stewed, to be Served Hot. Bone six pounds of the ribs of beef, flatten it, dust it with pepper and salt, grate four ounces bread, mix with the bread four ounces flour, four ounces minced mutton suet, a tea-spoonful salt, and half a tea-spoonful white pepper ; make up this mixture into a firm dough with a little milk. E,oU the meat round it, skewer it to keep it in shape ; put an English pint of water into a stew-pan that will just hold it, put in the meat, and cover it with four ounces minced suet, with a little pepper and salt; cover with a close fitting lid, and stew gently four hours. Take out the skewers before sending to table, and pour the gravy over. ROLLED MUTTON—To be Served Hot. Bone a shoulder and loin of mutton, mix with one half poimd of bread-crumbs, four ounces minced suet, a table- spoonful minced capers, the yolks of two eggs, one tea- spoonful salt, one half tea-spoonful pepper; spread it over the mutton, roll up, bind with broad tape, and stew in as little water as possible slowly four hours; unbiad it, dish, and pour the gi'avy over. ROLLED VEAL. Bone a shoulder and loin of veal attached, as mutton in previous recipe. Flatten it and spread over a thickROASTING, BOILING, STEWING, ETC. 89 coating of forcemeat {see Index); roll and bind with broad tape. Stew very slowly four hours; unbind it, dish and pour the gravy over, having coloured it with browning, and thickened it with corn-flour. STEWED FILLET OF MUTTON, WITH TONGUE AND TURNIPS, AND OYSTER SAUCE. Soak a fresh ox-tongue in salt and water a few hours to draw out the slime; wash it well, and put it on to boil with lukewarm water. When boihng, skim very well and put into the same pot six pounds of the fillet of mutton, with a dessert-spoonful salt, and a tea-spoonful ground ■white pepper; stew two hours and a-half, skin the tongue, slice and put the slices round the dish; place the mutton in the centre. Beard one half hundred oysters, strain their juice and pour them into the gravy; give them one boil up, and pour over the mutton and tongue. Serve nicely mashed turnips in a separate dish. STEWED SHOULDER OF MUTTON. Stew a shoulder of mutton in very little water (two breakfast-cupfuls) very slowly, so that iu two hours the water will be quite absorbed and the mutton frying in its own dripping. Slice a good many large onions, lay them under the meat, and fry them quite brown; pour in two breakfast-cupfuls of boiling water, a little pepper and salt, and simmer very gently until the meat is quite tender. Dust in a little flour, and dish; you will find that the gravy is of a rich brown colour, and altogether a nice savoury dish. M90 ROASTING, BOILING, STEWING, ETC. BAKED IRISH STEW. Fill a pie-dish witli alternate layers of mutton chops, Sliced onions, sliced carrots, turnips, and potatoes, with pepper and salt, add a little water, and bake an hour, closely covered. SADDLE OF LAMB. Koast it quickly, basting it constantly with its own gravy; serve with it mint sauce and a salad. An hour and a half will roast a saddle of young lamb. STEWED GIGOT OF LAMB. Stew a small leg of lamb when quite young one hour, in as much water as will serve for gi'avy, seasoned with white pepper, and salt, and a blade of mace. When done, dish the lamb, and add a cup of cream, and a table-spoon- ful corn-flour stirred into the gravy on the fire. When boiling pour over the lamb, and garnish the edge of the ashet with nice green bunches of parsley. MUTTON CUTLET. Cut a slice two pounds weight from the middle of a hind leg of mutton, dip it in cold water, season it with pepper and salt. Melt an ounce of mutton suet in a stew pan, lay in your cutlet, and place to stew where it will simmer very gently two houi-s. Let it be kept closely covered; dish it on a hot ashet, with its own gravy poured over it. BEEF STEAK. Beef steak is delicious, done by the previous recipe. PRESSED BEEF. Put the meat without the gravy as above, into a round ,n. Put a plate and weights .^over it. Turn out on aEOASTING, BOILING, STEWING, ETC. 01 napkin when cold; and glaze or not as you ctoose. Garnish with cut vegetables. Nothing looks so pretty- as fresh green parsley. DRESSED CALF'S HEAD. After having the head well scraped, open it under the jaws, and soak it in salt and water, washing it very well; keep it in its natural form; bind it with tape, and skewer it to keep it in shape. Stew it in water with about a pound of smoked bacon, a few peppercorns, cloves, and mace, two hours. Mince the ham and one hard boiled egg, and mix them in good forcemeat; make up into balls the size of an egg, and fry them. Egg and bread-crumb the head, and brown it before the fire. Strain the gi'avy and thicken it with corn-flom-. The balls, which have been fried a nice brown, and the tongue skinned and sliced, are placed round the dish, with sliced lemon and parsley. A paste or potato border, is sometimes put round the dish. DRESSED CALF'S HEAD.—No. TL Divide a nice calf's head, take out the tongue, bone the head, and spread over the inner sides a thick layer of rich forcemeat; roll them tightly up, bind them with tape. Stew them with the tongue very gently two hours, in a little water, with a few mixed peppercorns, and two blades mace. When nice and tender, untie the tape, skin and trim the tongue, place it in the centre of the dish, and one half of the head on each side. Strain the gravy, thicken it with corn-flour, colour it with browning, if necessary; add a pinch of cayenne pepper, and the grated rhind and juice of a small lemon, fringe the ears, and pour over the gravy. Garnish with sliced lemon and parsley, and a few brain cakes.92 ROASTING, BOILING, STEWING, ETC. BOILED CALF'S HEAD. Split the head and clean it thoroughly ; simmer gently two hours with seasonings. When it is cooked, skin the tongue and slice it, lay the head flat on the dish, and the slices of tongue round it. Colour and thicken the gravy, pour it over and serve. A piece of boiled ham is often served with it; the remains make an excellent hash. POTTED CALF'S HEAD. Stew and pick the meat from the bones; cut it into small pieces. Boil two eggs hard, mince the yolks and cut the whites into shapes; parboil a little parsley, and lay these neatly over the dish you intend pouring it into. Return the cut meat into the boiling graw, add salt and white pepper to taste, and pour it in; turn out when cold. BAKED OX-CHEEK. Cleanse the half of an ox-cheek thoroughly, boil it an hour; bone it, return the bones to the gravy; add season- ings, and boil two hours. JMeantime spread over the inner side of the head, a thick layer of good forcemeat, roll it up, and skewer it, place it in a pie-dish, cover it with good beef drijiping, and bake it two hours; serve it quite free from fat, with plenty of gi-avy. BEEF STEAK—Broiled. Broiled beef steak is very delicious, when the meat is nice and tender, and properly cooked. It is not always the cook's fault, however, when the steak is tough ; it is often too new. To avoid this it should be bought the day before it is wanted ; never beat it, but have your firs suitable, and turn it frequently with steak tongs, neverROASTING, BOILING, STEWING, ETC. D3 ■with a fork. Do not grease your grieliron, as that makes it impart a bad flavour to the meat. If you do anything to the gridiron at all, rub it with a piece of chalk. Have your dish quite hot, and dust a little fine salt over it. When done, serve immediately. It should be waited on, to have it in perfection. MUTTON CHOPS.—Plain. Have the naiTow end chopped off (the chops are taken from the loin) ; melt a little mutton suet in your frying pan and fry them on both sides, slowly at first, so that they may be quite done ; let them be sli^ btly browned. Pour the gravy over them, and dust them with pepper and salt. DEESSED CHOPS OF MUTTON OR i' A MB. Take ofi" the skin and trim them nicely, brush them over with beat egg and fine bread-crumbs, mixed with pepper and salt, and, Z liked, a little chopped parsley or herbs. Fry them in lard; when done, drain them well from the lard. They may be dressed on a napkin, but make a nice dish di-essed round a mould of beat potatoes. DRESSED CUTLETS. Cutlets are cut from the gigot. Cut them about two inches square, or rather oblong; egg and bread-crumb them, mixing the crumbs with a little fine salt, white pepper, and grated nutmeg ; boil them in lard and drain them. They are sometimes served without sauce, but a nice sauce may be made by putting into a small saucepan, a little good dripping (about an ounce), and shaking in a little flour. When quite brown, put in the bones and94 ROASTING, BOILING, STEOING, ETC. trimming of the cutlets ; put in an onion (if the flavour is not distasteful), a little water, pepper, and salt, and a small piece of butter. Strain and remove anything from the top, put it into a clean saucepan; when boiling, add a very little ketchup, and thicken with corn-flour. Dish your cutlets round the dish, each leaning on another, and pour the sauce in the centre. STEWED KIDNEYS. Cut out the hard fat and slice the kidneys ; soak them in salt and water; cover them with cold water, add a piece of butter, and a little pepper and salt. Cover closely and simmer very slowly an hour; thicken with a little common flour. Or, as some object to the first water of the kidneys, simmer half an hour, putting them on with cold water ; pour off the water, add the butter and season- ing with fresh water, and simmer another half hour. Mutton kidneys do very well dressed for a corner or entree. Cut them in two, stew them as above, and pour the sauce into a silver or other dish; glaze the kidneys and place them on the top of the sauce; or egg and bread- crumb them, and fry or brown before the fire. They are sometimes dusted with flour, and browned before stewing. BROILED KIDNEYS. Slice them, and do them on the gridiron, turning them frequently; dust them sUghtly with pepper and salt Put a little butter on each, and serve very hot. PICKLED PIG'S-CUEEK TO BOIL. "Wash very clean, and boil it nearly two hours ; parbou a few curled greens, strain the water from them, and boU95 ROASTING, BOILING, STPWING, ETC. till tender with the head. "When the head is dished put the greens rouna it. BOILED OX-TONGUE. "Wash it well, and if it is hard, soak it in cold water twelve hours ; turn up the point of the tongue, and fasten it with a skewer. Put it into boiling water, and boil it slowly from two to three hours, according to size. LAMB'S-HEAD. The head is sold with what is called the pluck, that is, the liver, lights, heart, and kernels. Split the head and take out the brains; put them into a small basin of salt and water. Wash the head very clean, and cut out the gristles of the nostrils containing the slime; soak it in salt and water a short time ; stew it for an hour slowly ; take out the tongue and peel it, cut it in two lengthways ; serve it with the head, also a few brain cakes. After the head has been brushed over with egg, bread crumbed, and browned before the fire, slice the liver, and fry it ^with a few slices of bacon, to lay round the head. The gravy is made when the liver and bacon have been removed from the pan, by fryicg a few minced onions, and adding a little water, pepper, and a very little salt, with a dust of flour; stir, and when boiling pour into the dish. A nice hash is made by boiling the lights, heart, and kernels. Mince them as fine as mince collops; season highly with pepper and salt, and a few chopped onions ; thicken with flour; half an hour will do it. To give the hash a good colour, put a small piece of dripping into your stew-pan, shake in a little flour, and when quite brown put in your hash j stir it well.ROASTING, BOILING, STEWING, ETC. 96 A DISH OF BAKED MEAT AND POTATOES. This is not an economical dish, but many people like it. Peel what potatoes are required, und put them into a pie or round baking dish; dust them over with pepper and salt, and add a little water; lay your piece of meat over the potatoes, and bake it. OX-HEAD Requires thorough cleansing, and is done exactly as potted calf's head, but more highly seasoned ; a little ground Jamaica pepper is generally added if not potted. It makes a very nice ragout or savoury stew, by cutting it into small ])ieces and stewing them with minced onions, pepper, and salt, thickening the gravy with flour when done. It takes a good while to do. Some stew a few forcemeat or suet balls along with them. IRISH STEW. Put a few mutton chops in the bottom of a stew-pan, then a row of sliced carrot and turnip, and a good many minced onions; fill up the pan with peeled potatoes, cut in half; season with pepper and salt between each layer, and half fill the pan with water. Simmer very slowly one hour, closely covered. SCOTCH COLLOPS. Cut up a few nice tender steaks; fry them, and put them into a stew-pan with a little water and seasoning, with a minced onion, if liked; thicken the sauce or not, just as it is wished. MINCED COLLOPS. For one pound of minced beef take one teaspoonful of salt, and a half of pepper; bruise them as starch, in a JiROASTING, BOILIKG, STEWING, ETC. 97 basin, with a spoon and cold water, and add a little more cold water to thin them. Put them into a stew pan and stir till they boil; thicken with a dessert-spoonful of common flour, or toast a thin half-slice of bread, and rub it small in a cloth, and thicken with it. Sippets are sometimes served with it. HAM AND EGG. Fry your ham quite through, but not overmuch; lift the pan to the side to settle, and lift out the ham, keeping it hot. Wet a cup with cold water, and drop an egg into it; lay the egg carefully into your pan, and do as many more in the same way as you want; let them set a little before returning the pan to the fire, as this gives them the apjioarance of poached eggs. Dish them neatly over the ham, and pour the gravy over them. VEAL PILLAU. Bone a breast of veal, spread it out, and cover the inside part entirely with thin slices of nice bacon ; shake a thick coating of bread-crambs mixed with pepper, and very little salt, and roll up tightly. Skewer the meat, and lard it all over the top ; put it into a baking-cUsh with water, a few onions, seasonings, and one large acid apple; let it be done quite through. Border an ashet with boiled rice, brush it over with yolk of egg, and brown it. Dish • the veal, thicken the gravy in the dish, and curry it; ] pour over and serve. FOWL PILLAU. Bone a large fowl and fill it with stewed rice, minced 1 bacon, pepper, and a little salt; sew it up, and truss it as tfor boiling; stew three quarters of an hour. Cover it N98 COASTING, BOILING, STEWING, ETC. with rice boiled in salt and water rather soft, so that it may spread smoothly; boil four eggs hard, divide the yolk, and garnish the fowl all over. Serve fried onions round the dish. MUTTON HASH Is made with cold left mutton. Mince it very fine, put the bones in a pan with a little water, and simmer them an hour ; strain the gi-avy; mince three good-sized onions and bro-«Ti them in a stew pan, with a little dripping and flour; add the gravy, and simmer slowly twenty minutes. Season the mince with pepper and salt, shake in flour, mix very well, and stir it into the pan ; let them be made quite hot, and dish. STEWED OX-TAILS. Chop them at the joints and wash them ; roll them in flour, and fry them a nice brown 3 cover them with water; add 'a little seasoning ; stew veiy gently three houi-s ; remove the fat, and thicken the gravy or not, just as you choose. They are sometimes stewed without frying, but then you must brown a little flour in your stew-pau before puttmg in your stew. PORK OR BEEF SAUSAGES. Stew them in a little water with a large Spanish onion slowly, until the onion is done; season with white pepper and salt. Serve the onion in the centre of the dish, and the sausages round it; pour the gravy all over. SAUSAGES AND POACHED EGGS. Do them as above, without the onions. Poach four e^rcrs, and lay them neatly over the sausages.99 ROASTING, BOILING, STEWING, ETC. A NEAT SUPPER DISH. Boil and masli some potatoes very nicely with a little butter and milk; beat the yolks of two eggs, and beat up the potatoes very light, after the eggs are put in ; heap them as high as you can in an ashet, brush over with beat eggs and brown in the oven. Fry sausages and dress them neatly over the potatoes, or make a wall of the potatoes round an ashet, and pour the sausages in the centre. COW-HEEL. Boil one ox-foot with four pounds leg of beef until quite tender; strain, pick the meat from the bones, and when cold mince it; boil in the gi-avy till it is a good strong jelly; season highly with black and Jamaica pepper and salt. (A few eggs boiled hard and added are a great improvement.) Simmer the meat in it for a few minutes, and pour into moulds, to be turned out when cold. This is an economical dish. SCOTCH HAGGIS. The ingredients are a sheep's pluck, tripes, three quarters of a pound of suet, one half pound oatmeal, one ounce of black pepper, and one ounce of salt. Having cleaned the pluck thoroughly, make a few incisions in the heart and lights, and put them on to boil, leaving the wind-pipe hanging over the side of the pot, to allow the blood, &c., to escape from the lungs; boil the tripes along with them, putting aside the largest bag. After boiling one hour, mince them as fine as it is possible to mince them, and the suet also ; (the liver may be laid aside for a pudding). Toast the meal, and mix very nicely, and fill the bag; addBOASTING, BOILING, STEWING, ETC. 100 a breakfast-cupful of the gra\'y in which they were boiled, and sew up the bag, being particular in looking it over to see that there are no holes in it. Boil it in a cloth three hours. PORK CHOPS. Cut off the skin and fry them rather slowly, as they must be well done ; they take a long while to do well. Serve apple sauce in a sauceboat. Sprinkle salt over them before they are done. Pork cutlets are done in the same ■way. They are seldom egg and bread-crumbed; a little powdered sage is sometimes sprinkled over them. BRAWN. Veal, pork, and ox-tongue, mixed together, make excel- lent brawn. Boil the tongue longer then the veal and pork, and mince them when done. Season with powdered sage, white pepper, and salt to taste; stew a quarter of an hour in the gravy; strain, and press it into a round tin with a false bottom, so that it may be conveniently turned out. LIVER PUDDING. Boil the liver and grate it; mince six ounces of salt bacon, a few onions, season highly with pepper and a little salt, and dust well withflour. Mix andfiU a pudding-bowl, or mould, moisten with a little of the gravy, aud cover with pudding paste. Boil an hour. BEEF OLIVES. Flatten beef-steaks with a rolling pin, and cut them in oblong pieces, not too large; mix a little suet and bread-crumbs with pepper, salt, and a little minced parsley Spread this mixture over them, roll them up, and skewer them; cover them with water, and simmer101 ROASTING, BOILING, STEWING, ETC. slowly two hours. Take oat the olives, untie the tape, and dish thicken the gravy, add a little ketchup and browning, and pour over them. VEAL OLIVES. Procure cutlets from the gigot, trim them, (that is, put away the skin and bones), and cut them smaller than beef olives. Roll them with a rolling pin to flatten them; make forcemeat balls the size of a small egg, place one of them in each piece, roll them up, and skewer them. Brown a little flour and butter in the bottom of your stew-pan; place the olives in it, and brown them; stew very gently two hours. The trimmings of the veal may be added, and taken out before dishing; thicken the gravy with corn flour; season it and add a little cayenne and lemou juice. STEWED GIBLETS. Take three pairs of goose giblets for a dish; scald them, and when well cleaned, stew them with a bit of butter, and water, two hours; slice them, grate the livers, shake a little flour into the pan, to thicken the sauce, a little white and cayenne pepper, and a teaspoonful of sugar, grate in a little lemon rhind, and squeeze in a little juice; add half a glass of port wine and a little ketchup. Take the yolks of three hard boiled eggs, beat them smooth with the yolk of a raw egg, knead in flour to make them quite stiff, roll into small balls and stew a few minutes; dish, and serve quite hot. BEEF-STEAK AND ONIONS. Mince two or thi-ee large onions, have your frying pan quite hot, with good dripping or suet melted in it; put in your onions and lay your steak over them. Let them doROASTING, BOILING, STEWING, ETC. 102 for five minutes; lift out the steak and ntir the onions till quite done; dish them, and finish your steak; serve it in the same dish. For gravy, dust a little flour into the pan, with pepper and salt to taste; lef it brown, then pour in a tea-cupful of water, add a little ketchup, and pour over the dish. Fry steak in the same way without the onions. STEWED STEAK. Cut your steak into square pieces, peel a few onions, and put them whole into the water, with a Kttle pepper and salt. When boiling, put in a few suet balls, made with two ounces of suet and half a pound of flour. IMince the suet, add a little salt, and make into balls the size of eggs; use boiling water to moisten the flour, it makes them lighter. Stew altogether slowly for two hours. * BEEF-STEAK PUDDING. Make a good pudding paste, cut up either mutton or beef, season with pepper and salt, and make it up as you do apple-pudding; it will take three hours to boil. Pigeons eat nicely done in this way. VEAL CURRY. Take one and a half pounds of veal cutlet, one table- spoonful of curry powder, one table-spoonful of flour, an aijple, a little salt, and white pepper. Dust the cutlets with flour, and fry them a light brown, with a minced onion or shallot, in butter. Put them into a stew-pan with a little gravy or warm water; mince an acid apple or put in lemon juice ; stew gently half an hour, thicken with the curry and flour, and pour over the cutlets when done ; serve rice with it.BOASTING, BOILING, STEWING, ETC. 103 EGG CURRY.—No. I. Grate a table-spoonful of fresh cocoa nut, fry in butter a few sliced onions and a sliced apple, a nice ' brown ; lay them ou a flat hot dish, the grated cocoa nut over them, with a little white pepper and salt. Boil six eggs hard, cut them in two across, lay them on the dish, standing on the cut side, mix a little curry and flour in a cup of gravy, and pour into the pan. Stir until through the boil, and pour over the eggs. EGG CURRY.—No. II. Boil four eggs, slice them, and pour curried sauce over them. CURRIED BEEF.—As in Madras. Put two ounces of butter into a stew-pan, and fry a few shced onions in it; stir in a tea-spoonful of curry powder, one pound of beef, cut in small squares, and one English pint of milk ; stew till quite tender; serve rice with it. FRICANDEAU OF VEAL. Take two pounds of veal, one quarter pound of suet, and mince as fine as possible; grate in a little nutmeg, wsth a little pepper and salt. Soak a slice of bread in boiling milk, break it up, and mix in; beat up three or four eggs, mix all together, and bake in a pie-dish. It will take an hour, and must be brown on the top. FONDU OF CHEESE. Grate a quarter pound of cheese, put it in a stew-pan with one ounce of butter, set it over the stove and keep stirring till quite melted ; take it off the stove, and mix with three yolks of eggs and a little cream ; after which,ROASTING, BOILING, STEWING, ETC. 104 fill small cheese-cake pans, or cut out paper sliapes and fill; then bake until set and brown. BEEF MARROW BONES. Procure the bones sawn about three inches long (the butcher will saw them for you); make a paste of flour and hot water, cover the bones at each end with the paste, and put them in a stew-pan of boUingwater one hour. E,emove the paste and wrap a table napkin round them. Serve nice thin oat cake or toast with them. A NICE SUPPER DISH. Slice a Spanish onion and a cucumber, cover them with milk or water (which you please), a little salt and white pepper, and a piece of butter about the size of an egg. Stew gently three quarters of an hour. Lift out the onions and cucumber, and thicken the gravy with a little flour. Have two eggs boiled hard, slice them, lay them over the vegetables, and pour the gravy all over. A little vinegar may be added, if desirable. A SIDE DISH OF VEGETABLE MARROW. Peel a good sized marrow and boil it half an hour. Remove the seeds and fibres; stufi"it with forcemeat nicely seasoned, egg and bread-crumb it well; melt a little butter and pour over it, and put it down to roast Make it all of a beautiful brown, and let it be well done. Serve nice brown gravy in the dish. A SUPPER DISH OF EGGS. Rub a small ashet over with butter, break six eggs into it, dust them over with pepper and a little salt, put small105 BOASTING, BOILISra, STEWING, ETC. pieces of butter all over tliem, and cover them with a coating of bread crumbs. Do them in an oven or befoi'e the fire; the crumbs must be quite brown. Garnish with a little green parsley. SPANISH ONIONS AS A SIDE OR CORNER DISH. Peel and scoop out a good deal of the heart of the onion, fill up with nicely seasoned forcemeat; stew gently one half hour in a little gravy or water, with a little butter and the pieces of the onion that have been scooped out, with pepper and salt, and thicken the sauce with flour. A PRETTY CORNER DISH OF SMALL CUCUMBERS. Small cucumbers are done in the very same manner as the vegetable marrow. If they cannot be got small enough, when cooked and ready to dish, cut them neatly across in pieces, and pour the sauce over them. ANOTHER FOWL PILLAU. Boil half a pound of Carolina rice, half an ounce of savouiy mixed spices, and a little salt. Have a lai-ge fowl well cleaned and trussed as for boiling; fill it with the spiced rice, and boil it in a cloth thi-ee quarters of an hour. Have more rice boiled and spiced; cover the fowl all over with it, and garnish it with fried ham, hard boiled egg sliced, and sliced lemon. SMALL VOLS-AU-VENT, OR VEAL PATTIES. Cut very light puff paste with a cutter about the size of the round of a tea-cup, egg it over, and mark it on the top with a smaller cutter, to represent the lid. Bake it, and when done, with a penknife take out the lid and a o106 ROASTIfTG, BOILING, STEWING, ETC. little of the paste, and fill with minced veal, heated in milk or cream, and nicely seasoned ; replace the lid, and serve hot on a neatly folded napkin. VOL-AU-VENT—Side Dish, Is made the same as small patties, two inches in depth, and the size of a small supper plate, and is usually filled with oysters, and served hot on a napkin. OYSTER PATTIES.—CoENEK Dish. Make little pate cases, as for veal patties; bake them; beard a few oysters and mince them; simmer them in their own liquor (after straining it) with a small piece of butter, a little white pepper, a pinch of cayenne, a little grated lemon rhind and juice, and one blade of mace. When done, mix in a little cream or milk, a tea-spoonful of flour, and a little grated bread. When the cases are done, take out the lid and fill with the mixture; put on the lids again. They must be served hot, on a folded napkin. Any nice mince may be used the same way, and even fish, such as the remains of salmon, turbot, soles, or lobsters. CHEESE OMELET, OR PUDDING. Grate four ounces of Cheshire cheese, mix it with two eggs weU beaten, one ounce of fresh butter, and a cup of cream or milk. Bake it, and serve hot, with hot toast. CHEESE FRITTERS. Take four ounces of grated cheese, two eggs, and a little white pepper; beat up the eggs, mix very well, and di'op a spoonful at a time in a pan of boiling lard. Fry a uioe brown, and serve them on a napkin.EOASTING, BOILING, STEWING, ETC. 107 FRENCH POTATO BALLS. Mash potatoes nicely, mix tliem witli a little butter, pepper, salt, and tlie yolks of three or four eggs beaten, a little chopped parsley and minced onions (if liked). Mix well, make them up into balls, roll in flour, and fry them. MEAT AND POTATO BALLS. Beat potatoes mixed with any nice mince you have, made into balls and fried. SAVOURY FRITTERS. Mix pan-cake batter with any nice minced savoury meat, and drop it in spoonfuls at a time, in nice dripping in the frying pan, and brown both sides. OYSTER FRITTERS. Choose large oysters, dip them in a thick pan-cake batter, lift one oyster and a spoonful of batter at a time, and fry a nice brown. They may be served as a dish or used as garnish. SCALLOPED OYSTERS. Butter a few scallop shells, piit a layer at the bottom of the tins, with a little butter a.nd bread-crumbs over, seasoned nicely; fill alternately, and put butter over the top. Brown either in the oven or before the fire. Turn out, or serve in the shells of oysters on a napkin. SCALLOPED VEAL. Yea] is scalloped in the same way as oysters. MACARONI AND CHEESE. Boil two ounces of macar< .ni till tender, put it into a Btew-pan with a little butter, a little white pepper, very1U» EOASTING, BOILING, STEWING, ETC. little salt, and an ounce of grated chease. Let the butter and cheese be quite melted. Pour it into the pudding dish, grate cheese over the top, and brown it before the fire. MACARONI AND CHEESE (Another way). Simmer the macaroni in water ten minutes, and drain it; put one half in the bottom of a pie-dish, pour one beat egg over it, a little white pepper, and a coating of grated or scraped cheese. Put over this the rest of the macaroni, another egg, pepper, and half a tea-cupful of milk; grate cheese thickly over the top, and put it in the oven or despatch before the fire. CHEESE PUDDING. Grate six ounces of nice melting cheese, and place it in your dish before the fire to melt; beat the yolks and whites of six eggs separately, boil two breakfast cupfuls of milk, and pour it over the yolks, stirring very well all the time. See that the cheese is melted, and mix together thoroughly, adding a little salt and white pepper. Stir in the whites last and bake, either in an oven or before the fire in des- patch. Serve immediately with celery in a glass and cheese biscuits. BREAD AND CHEESE PUDDING. Soak grated bread in boiling milk half an hour; mix with grated cheese and white pepper, bake in a pie dish. ANOTHER MACARONI AND CHEESE PUDDING Boil four ounces of macaroni in water ten minutes, and strain it; beat four eggs and pour over the macaroni, after mincing well with a little white pejjper, salt, one tea-spoon-ROASTING, BOILING, STEWING, ETC. 109 ful made-mustard, and a little ketchuij. Mix all together and bake; grate cheese thickly over the top, and brown It may be poured over a flat dish with pastry border ANOTHER CHEESE OMELET. Put in a basin one table spoonful of flour; mix in by degrees two cups of milk, and a little pepper and salt, two ounces of grated cheese, and two eggs well-beaten. Fry in an omelet pan. When done on one side, turn, and serve on a napkin. CHEESE TOASTS. Grate thi-ee ounces of good melting cheese, and three ounces of bread-crumbs; mix these with two ounces of but- ter, the beat yolks of two eggs, some made-mustard, pep- per and salt; beat them together into a paste, and spread on toast and brown before the fire. POULTRY AND GAME. TURKEY. Truss a turkey as directed (see Chapter on Trussing). Fill the crop with fowl stufiiug ; cover the breast with writing paper, over which you have spread dripping, lard, or butter; hang it up on your jack; put a little dripping in the pan to melt for basting. Do not put it too near the fire at first, but baste it well. An hour should do it with a good fire; bi^t that must be determined by the size of the turkey. The gra'v^ is made by stewing the giblets, seasoning them nicely, and straining them amongst the gravy, after remov- ing the fat from the gravy in the pan. Dust a little salt over it when done, and dredge it with a little flour; bastePOULTRY AND GAME. 110 it, and let it be quite brown. Some serve bread, and otters a sharp sauce, with turkey. It may also be served with fried ham, or beef and pork sausages around it. BOILED TURKEY. Prepare a nice ben turkey for boUing, as directed in chapter on Trussing ; put it into just sufficient tepid water, with a little salt to cover it; let it simmer for an hour ; when the water will be reduced to the proper quantity for sauce, season and thicken it with corn flour and chopped parsley, pour it over the turkey. A boiled tongue sliced, may be laid round it, or a chain of stewed pork sausages, and oyster sauce may be substituted for parsley sauce. To bone and stuff a Turkey, see cJiapter on Boning. TURKEY POULTS. Choose tbem nice and plump ; paper the breasts, but do not stuff them ; they will take about an hour to roast j ten minutes before taking them from the fire dredge tliem with flour, and baste them well, when nicely frothed, dish them with the gravy in the dish. ROAST CHICKEN. Young chickens are seldom stuffisd, but when they are so-, the stuffing is composed of grated bread soaked in boil- ing milk, a piece of butter, the beaten yolk of egg, and seasoned with white pepper, salt, and a few parsley leaves, and put into the bellies, not int,o the ci-op. They must be basted well when roasting; twenty minutes will cook them. CHICKENS AND TONGUE. Boil a nice pickled tongue and a pair of spring chickens,POULTRY AND GAME. Ill trim the tongue neatly, and place it in the centre of the dish, and a chicken ou each side, pour a nice rich brown sauce over them, with chopped parsley. CHICKENS WITH MUSHROOM SAUCE. Put a slice of bacon in a stew pan, with a cupful of water, put in the chickens, and stew them gently for three quarters of an hour; take off the fat from the gravy and add a few pickled mushrooms, a little of the vinegar, and white pepper to taste ; pour over the fowl and serve. CHICKEN AND TOMATOES. Cut up the chickens, and brown them in a stew pan, with butter, flour, and a minced onion, when nicely browned, add a cup of water or gravy, six tomatoes, and a seasoning of pepper and salt : stew half an hour, or three quai-ters. Serve with the sauce over, and the tomatoes. CHICKENS WITH OYSTERS. FiU a couple of nice young chickens with oysters and mushrooms, and stew them until nice and tender with water, and the juice of the oysters seasoned to taste, with pepper and salt; dish them when done, and thickeu the gi-avy with butter, flour, a fevr minced oysters, mushrooms, the yolks of two hard boiled eggs, and a little cream; boil a few minutes, and pour over the chickens. STEWED CHICKEN WITH SPINAGE. Stew a chicken nicely,' dish it, and put flattened spinage balls round it with a small poached egg laid neatly on each, season and thicken the gravy and pour over it.112 POULTRY AND GAME. ROAST GOOSE. After trussing, stuff the breast with bread crumbs, a little powdered sage, minced parboiled onion, a little pep- per and salt, and bind with yolk of egg. It does not re- quire much basting, as it is so greasy of itself. Most people prefer to boil it for twenty minutes before putting it down to roast; this takes away the oily flavour. Make a nice gravy with the giblets. Serve apple sauce in a sauce-boat. BRAISED GOOSE. Truss a goose for boiling and put it into a pan that will just hold it, cover it with water and add a small quantity of cut carrot, turnip, onions, celery, and parsley; when boiling remove the scum, and add a few pepper pease, a few sage leaves, and salt to taste ; cover up close, and simmer until the goose is quite done. Strain the gravy and take the fat from it, keep the goose hot, and boil the gravy rapidly down to a nice thick glaze, and pour over it. ROAST DUCKS. Proceed exactly as for roast goose, with the same kind of stuffing and sauces, a little cayenne; and port wine in the gravy is sometimes wished. STEWED DUCK WITH GREEN PEASE. Stew a duck until it is nearly done; chop a lettuce, a few green onions, put them into the stew-pan with the duck, add a quart of young green pease, a handful of chopped parsley, a piece of butter, and a seasoning of pepper and salt, with a teaspoonful of sugar; dredge them all over with flour, and stew ten minutes; pour the pea«e and gravy all over and round the duck.113 POULTRY AND GAME. DUCK AND GREEN PEASE.—Piain. Stew a cluck in the usual way, seasoned with white pepper and salt; thicken the gravy with flour, and pour over it, boil the pease separately; drain them; stir a piece of butter in them, and a little white pepper; put them round the duck. DUCK FRICASSEED. Cut up a couple of ducks; brown them nicely with butter and flom-; season them with a mixture of powdered sage aad sweet marjoram, chopped onions, tomatoes, pepper and salt; pour two cups of water over, and simmer them covered closely, till thoroughly done; add a piece of biibter, a few bread-crumbs, and a glass of wine. Pigeons and lamb are very nice done in this way; also, venison, hares, and rabbits. WILD DUCK. WHd duck, widgeon, and teal, are all roasted like common duck; the gi-avy for them must be highly seasoned with cayenne, lemon juice, and port wine. WILD DUCK TO STEW. Half roast the ducks, and put them into a stew pan with a Httle good brown gravy, flavoured highly with white and cayenne pepper, lemon juice, tind port wine- season to taste with salt and powdered sage; simmer the • ducks m this seasoning until quite done. BROILED PARTRIDGES. Cut the partridges in half and wipet hem thoroughly ■ with a damp cloth; season them to taste with white pep- 1 per, cayenne, and salt; broil them over a clear fire, turn- img them occasionally; twenty minutes should do them if t the fire is good. Dish them on a hot ashet, put a piece P114 POULTRY AND GAME. of butter on each, and serve muBbroom sauce or brown gravy witb tbem. POTTED PARTRIDGES. Cut tbe partridges in half length-ways, wipe them with a damp cloth, rub them over in every part with a mix- ture of savoury spices and salt, pack them quite closely in a potting jar, put a piece of butter over them and a cup of water, cover them up quite close, put the jar into a pot of boiling water, and remain an hour and a-half, cover them with lard or clarified butter; they may be preserved for a considerable time. ROAST PARTRIDGES. Baste them well in roasting, dust a little flour over them, and let them be well browned; half an hour will do them. Serve on toast, which may be dry, or dipped into hot gravy, water, or milk, when to be served under the birds, and pour brown gravy, flavoured with cayenne, a little ketchup, and a little grated lemon rhind and juice over them. ROAST PHEASANTS. Dress and serve as roast partridges. PHEASANTS—Boiled. Truss and boil pheasants as fowls, and serve onion sauce over them, mixed with a little cream. PHEASANTS.—Broiled. Pheasants are broiled in the same maimer as partridges, and are sometimes brushed over with yolk of egg, bread crumbed, and returned to the fire to brown; or brushed over with melted butter, dusted with flour, from the be- ginning.POULTRY AND GAME. 115 STEWED EABBITS. Cat the rabbits in joints, brown them with butter and flour, and stew them for two hours in water, with a large minced onion, and a good seasoning of pepper and salt; sweet herbs in powder may be added, if liked, and parsley; thicken the gravy when the rabbits are quite cooked, with butter, flour, and milk; a few slices of ham is an improve- ment stewed with the rabbits. STEWED HARE. Cut up the hare and wipe it with a damp cloth, brown it with butter and flour, and season with salt, cayenne, : mace, herbs, juice of lemon, and a slice of ham, stew untU I quite tender, thicken the gravy with arrowroot and butter, add a little ketchup and port wine; dish and I garnish with forcemeat balls, and serve currant jelly with it. POTTED HARE. Hare may be potted in the same manner as partridges. CHICKEN AND HAM PIE. Cut up what chickens are required, flour them and nil tthe pie with chicken, veal, ham, and hard boiled eggs in 9 slices alternately, seasoning to taste in filling the dish. (Cover with a nice light pufi" paste, pour in a little water iin the usual way, and bake for an hour and a half RABBIT OR HARE PIE. Cut up either rabbit or hare in joints, and fill the pie (Idish with layers of them and slices of ham, and season hhighly; having fried them until half cooked; if not dis-116 POULTRY AND GAME. liked, an onion may be minced and added to it; cover with a nice crust and bake an hour. Pour in a glass of port •wine before dishing it. VEAL PIE. Season veal cutlets nicely, and fill a pie dish with them, adding over each layer a few slices of bacon ham, and sliced boiled eggs, and a dust of flour, cover with short crust, and add a little water in the usual manner for gravy after covering it; an hour will bake it; if the cover is done very quickly, cover it with paper, until the meat is done. VEAL OR CHICKEN, Al^D PARSLEY PIE.—Cold. Cut up veal or chicken, and fill the dish with either, flavouring wfth salt, white pepper, and a Uttle grated nutmeg ; scald a good quantity of chopped parsley to take away a portion of the flavour, and cover each layer of meat with it plentifully, and do not add any flour; cover with a good puff paste, adding, water only, to make gravy. SHEEP OR CALF'S HEAD PIE. Pick all the meat from a calf or sheep's head that has been boiled, make a few forcemeat balls, skin the tongue, and cut or mince the meat. Season it nicely; dust in a little flour ; season highly with white and a Uttle cayenne pepper and salt; lay puff paste over a flat dish, put in the meat, and cover it neatly. Have a nice thick edge of paste; glaze over with egg, make a small hole at one end of your cover, and pour in a little of the gi-avy, and baKie. It is used cold for breakfast or supper.POULTRY AND GAME. 117 CALF'S HEAD PIE. Procui-e the head from the butcher all ready cleaned, and split up, take out the brains, and put them in a basin with water and salt until wanted, soak and wash the head thoroughly, boil it an hour, remove the bones which return to the pot, meantime cut the meat into neat pieces, skin the tongue and slice it, parboil the brains and slice them, slice a few onions, fill the dish, adding a few small slices of bacon and hard boiled eggs ; season nicely to taste; cover with either puff or short paste, and bake half an hour; having filled the pie with gravy from the bones, chopped parsley may be added if liked. BAKED CALF'S HEAD, The above or foregoing ingredients may be put into a pie dish, and bake without pastry, turned out when cold, and will be quite firm for slicing. It is a pretty dish, garnished simply with nice parsley. GROUSE PIE. Clean and half the grouse lengthways, cut ofi" the drum- sticks, and tuck in the legs, put a good steak at the bottom of the dish, and another over the birds; having seasoned them well, cover with a nice light paste, and bake an hour and a half; having added a little water as usual, fasten a few of the feet on the cover, and put a small spray of of heath on it when sending it to table; (the steak may be cut in small helpings if found more convenient.) GROUSE. Grouse are generally kept longer than partridges; they are cooked the same way as partridges and pheasants.POULTRY AND GAME. 118 with good beef gravy in the dish, and bread sauce in a tureen. A dish of very thin nicely fried potatoes, or potato ribbons are served separately, or placed neatly round the dish, and a spray of heath in the bills. PIGEONS. Clean and truss the pigeons—six will make a nice dish—pick the meat entirely from one of them, wash the giblets, and stew the meat of the pigeon with them, and a good slice of bacon, with pepper and salt, for half-an-hour; strain the gravy from them, mince them very fine or pound them in a mortar; mix with them a few bread crumbs, minced parsley, and a hard-boiled egg; stuff the pigeons with the forcemeat, and stew them three-quarters of an hour in the gravy made from the stewed giblets and ham; when done, thicken the gravy and add ketchup, a little port wine, and minced parsley; pour the sauce over them. EOAST PIGEONS Are cooked in the same way as roast fowl, and served with veal gravy, without stuffing. BROILED PIGEONS. Chop off the head and feet, split them down the back after washing them clean, flatten them, dust over with a little white pepper and salt, and broil them over a clear fire ; serve with parsley and butter sauce in tureen. STEWED PIGEON.—Plain. Pigeons are plainly stewed in the usual way of stewing, the gravy thickened, and chopped parsley added to it.119 POULTRY AND GAME. WOOD PIGEONS Are delicious when dressed like wild duck, but are com- monly dressed the same way as tame pigeons. WOODCOCKS AND SNIPES. If you draw them, put the trail into a small stew-pau, with a little gravy, simmer it gently over the fire; add a little butter, cayenne, white pepper, and salt. Pour it over a slice of toast, and when the birds are done, place them over it. They must be basted with butter while doing; if wine is used in the sauce, it must be a little ROAST GUINEA FOWL. To be roasted as a common fowl, but not stuffed. Serve with bread sauce. ROAST FOWLS. Fowls are roasted exactly as turkey, and served in the same manner. ROAST LEVERET. Stuff it as roast hare, and cook it in a pie-dish, with a little water in the dish. You must turn the body a little round, so that it may appear quite natural, as if resting. Egg and bread-crumb it, and pour melted butter over it; it will take three quarters of an hour. When done, dish it, thicken the gravy, if necessary, season it, and see that it has a nice brown colour; garnish with sliced lemon and parsley, and a border of curried rice. ROAST RABBIT. Rabbits are stuffed and roasted as previous recipe; they make a pretty side dish, and are liked best with onion sauce.POULTRY AND GAJIE. 120 ROAST HARE. For trussing, see Directions for Trussing. Stuff it with a quarter pound of beef suet, the same of bread-crumbs, a little parsley, and sweet herbs, a little nutmeg grated, and lemon rhind, "with pepper and salt; boil and grate the liver, add two eggs ; if it wants moistening, take milk. It must be well basted, and will take an hour; it is a good plan to boil it one half hour, and roast it another half; or, do it in a deep pie-dish; put milk in the dish, with a good piece of butter, a blade of mace, sweet herbs, pepper, and salt; bake it in the oven, basting very fvec[uently with the gravy in the dish. Dish the hare with a potato border round it; strain the gravy, thicken it, and pour over; serve melted red currant jelly in a sauce-boat. DRESSED PIGEONS.—An Expensive French Dish. Take the livers, with some fat and lean, of bacon, mush- rooms, trufB.es, parsley, and sweet herbs, with pepper, salt, and mace ; beat these with the yolks of two raw eggs, and put this mixture into the bellies; wrap the pigeons in paper that has been spread over with lard, and roast them. Make a nice relishing gravy with any bones or trimmings you have, pour it over the pigeons, and garnish with egg and ham patties. PIGEONS IN WHITE SAUCE.—For a Side Dish. Truss fom- pigeons as fowls are trussed for boiling, stew them for half an hour, dish them neatly, and pour over them a rich white parsley and butter sauce; garnish with a few fried oysters, and a little green parsley.POULTRY AND GAME. 121 CHICKENS—For a Side Dish. Truss one pair of chickens, and do tliem tlie same as the pigeons for three quarters of an hour; instead of oysters for garnishing, use sliced lemon and parsley, or cut beet-root, they may be served with oyster sauce.— See Garnishings. PIGEONS COMPOTE. Truss four pigeons as for boiling, stuff the crops with forcemeat, cover them with a little brown gravy, made with a bit of butter in the stew-pan before j^ntting in the pigeons; make up a few forcemeat balls, and stew along with the pigeons; dish with the forcemeat balls round them, and thicken and season up the gravy; see that it is nice and brown, and pour it over the pigeons. BOILED TURKEY AND FOWLS. Truss them as directed, see Trussing; boil in a cloth or not, as you please, but skim the water well in boiling; serve with oyster or celery sauce. Some prefer macaroni dressed over them. JUGGED PIGEONS.—No. L Truss pigeons as for boiling, put them into an ironstone jar, with a little water, a piece of butter, and pepper and salt; cover them close, and either bake, or place the jar in a pot of boiling water, and simmer two hours; dish, and pour the gravy over. JUGGED PIGEONS.—No. II. Put the giblets into a small stew-pan, and when stewed, break down the liver with the back of a spoon, and mince the other pieces; mix them with pepper and salt, grated Q122 POULTRY AND GAME. nutmeg, lemon-peel, chopped parsley, the yolks of two hard boiled eggs, bniised as the liver, and a little suet or butter. Work it up either with one raw egg or a little milk, and stuff the pigeons and fasten them up; dip them in water, and put them in an ironstone jar, seasoning them as you put them in; put in a small ball of butter rolled in flour, and a little extra seasoning; cover them with water, and do them in a pot of boiling water, or bake them two hourn. This way is.more expensive than the preceding one. JUGGED HARE. Cut up the hare and season it highly; do it as Jugged Pigeons, No. I. PIGEONS IN JELLY Either roast your pigeons a beautiful brown, or stew them as white as possible; they must be wiped quite free from grease. Put them into a mould or pie dish, and pour strong well-flavoured savoury jeUy over them; to be turned out when cold.—See Savoury Jelly. SAVOURY PIES AND PUDDINGS. PIGEON PIE. Cut the pigeons first lengthways, and then across, stew the giblets, and then mince them to be put into the pie; dust the pigeons over with pepper, salt, and flour, boil an egg or two hard, mince them, and strew over the pigeons as you fill the dish with pieces of beef or mutton; cover with puff paste.123 SAVOURY PIES AND PUDDINGS. GAME PIE. When game is to be had plentifully, this pie is gener- ally made on a large scale. Make a raised crust, and de- corate it nicely with pastry leaves, roses, &c.; let it stand a few hours before you pack in the game, which should be of different kinds nicely seasoned. Roll out a piece of paste, lay it over the pie, and cut it round; dress it neatly with the pastry leaves and flowers over the top; make a hole at one of the sides to allow you to get the water put in for gravy, which must not be put in till the pie is more than half done; very little water will be sufficient with a glass of port and a little ketchup. OLIVE PIE. Purchase veal cutlets sufficient for the size of pie required; cut them so that when seasoned and rolled one will be sufficient to help out without carving. Parboil and mince a few oysters, mince a little suet, some bread- crumbs, parsley, pepper, and salt, and the yolks of two or three eggs; spread this mixture over them, roll them, and fill the pie-dish ; cover with puff paste, and bake an hour and a half. PAETRIDGE PIE. Always divide your partridges lengthways; season nicely, and flour them, put pieces of good steak at the bottom of the dish, and over the birds, and cover with puff paste. A glass of port is often put into the pie, and a little water for gravy. RABBIT PIE, Fill a pie-dish with rabbits cut up, and mutton chops ; season with pepper, salt, and minced onions; cover with L124 SAVOURY PIES AND PUDDINGS. piifF paste. Never put in the gravy into a pie till after the cover is on; make a hole at one end of the paste, and pour in the water through a small filler. SWEET VEAL PIE. Cover an ashet "with puff paste, and lay veal cutlets on it; season with mixed sweet spice; strew in bread-crumbs, then stoned raisins and currants, and over these a thick, layer of minced suet, and a minced apple; strew sugar over and one glass of rum or brandy. Cover with puif paste; glaze over the top with beat egg; dust sifted loaf sugar thickly over, and bake one hour. LAMB AND MUTTON PIE. Fill your dishes with lamb or mutton, partly chops from the loin, and cutlets mixed; season them with white pep- per and salt; dust them all over with ilour, and cover with half puff paste. "Water does very well for gravy, and is quite rich enough. MUTTON AND BEEF PIE Is made exactly as above, putting one x'ow of steak and another of mutton alternately. BEEF STEAK PIE. Three pounds steak makes a good sized pie; and one half pound butter and three quarters of a pound of flour makes the paste for it. Season the steaks with pepjjer and salt, and flour them. If you roll them up as olives, mince a little suet and bread-crumbs and put in them, or strew the mixture over them if you keep them flat. Mince an onion and add if the flavour is liked.125 SAVOURY PIES AND PUDDINGS. EOOK PIE. Chop off the head and feet, cut away the back bones and skin the rooks, soak them in salt and water a few hours, or sprinkle a little vinegar over them, and let lie a short time and wash off. This helps to take away the rank flavour. Put a steak under and over them, and season highly, not forgetting a little cayenne. Cover with a good paste, and bake one hour and a half. YORKSHIRE CHRISTMAS PIE. Make a very large pie case with raised crust (larger than would hold a turkey); bone a turkey, a lai'ge fowl, and a pigeon; make a quantity of good forcemeat, and lay a thick coating all over them ; put the pigeon in the fowl, and both iaside the turkey, filling all the spaces with forcemeat. Put them in the pie case. Boil an ox-tongue, peel, and trim it. Put in a hare at the other side, and fill up with what other game you have. Put on the cover and bake four hours in a good oven. Pour in the gi'avy when the pie is nearly done. SHROPSHIRE PIE Is made of rabbits and pork. Cut them in pieces; put in a few oysters and forcemeat balls, and bake. Those who wish it can put in a little wine when adding the gravy. EGG AND BACON PIE.—To Eat Cold. Lay a half puff paste layer over a flat ashet; put slices of bacon on it (see that the skin is taken off); break as many eggs over it as you conveniently can; dust over with white pepper ; cover it carefully with paste ; egg it &11 over, and bake half an hour, or until the paste is nicely done.SAVOURY PIES AND PUDDINGS. 126 A PRETTY SUPPER DISH. Beat potatoes very nice and smooth ; mix in a bit oi dripping or butter, and two eggs with a little milk. Cover a flat dish with them, leaving a border one inch deep; glaze the edge with yolk of egg, and put it down to brown before the fire. It should be quite light and quite brown. Put fried bacon and eggs over it neatly, and serve. CALF'S-FOOT PIE. BoU a pair of feet in water untU the meat will part quite readily from the bones; mince it, and season with a little mixed sweet spice, a few currants, and stoned raisins, a little minced orange peel and sugar, a quarter pound of finely minced suet. Put puif paste over and under it in a flat dish ; glaze with beat egg and sifted sugar over. (Make jelly of the boilings). VENISON PASTY. Bone a shoulder of venison, and put the bones into a stew pan, with seasonings and hei'bs to make a good gravy. Mince half a poimd of mutton suet, and mix six ounces of it with a few bread-crumbs seasoned nicely; spread out the venison and cover it aU over with this staffing; roll it up, bind it with broad tape, and stew it along with the bones for an hour ; unbind it, and let it cool on an even surface, with a weight on it to make it flat. Put a good thick edging of pufi" paste round an ashet, and lay in the meat; put in a good deal of the gravy, which will be a strong jelly; strew all over the other two ounces of minced suet; cover with a good thick crust of puff paste, and bake an hour. Serve a sauce tureen of gravy.123 SA"VOURY PIES AND PUDDINGS. LARK OR SPARROW PUDDING. Put a little butter, rolled in flour, in eacli bird; mix them with a little steak, and do them up with paste the same as other meat dumplings. GIBLET PIE. Stew goose giblets till quite tender, with onions, one blade of mace, pepper, and salt, with a few sage leaves ; grate the livers. Put a good thick steak at the bottom of your pie-dish; fill the dish, dusting a little flour and seasoning as you fill it. Cover your pie with a good crust, and bake one hour. Before putting the pie in the oven, strain the gravy and put into it. YORKSHIRE PIE. Yorkshire pies are made in raised crusts, with lean and fat pork mixed together. The meat is cut in pieces about the size of a walnut, and seasoned with pepper and salt. Some put a little powdered sage. Pill the pie shells, put on the lid, and ornament them nicely. They will take fully an hour, but that is just according to size. DEVONSHIRE PIE Is made by putting apples and onions between layers of mutton chops, well-seasoned with pepper and salt. Cover with paste, and bake. CHESHIRE PORK PIE. Season pork steaks with nutmeg, salt, and pepper. Put rows of apples between (some put white wine, but that is a matter of taste); add a little sugar; cover and bake, and put in gravy.SAVOURY PIES AND PUDDINGS. 128 MEAT AND POTATO PIE. Put alternate rows of meat, potatoes, and sliced onions if liked, dusting each row with salt and pepper to taste; cover with half puff paste, and bake slowly one hour. MEAT AND POTATO PIE OF COLD COOKED MEAT. Proceed as above, season nicely, and cover with beat potatoes; egg them over, and brown in the oven. A PRETTY SAVOURY DISH. Put a potato border round a dish an inch and a half hio'h, make four compartments with the potatoes barred across the ashet, brush them over with yolk of egg, and press mashed potatoes through a fine cullender all over them; brown nicely, either in the oven or before the fire, and till them with different small stews; a curry of smaU stewed veal cutlets, mutton kidneys broiled, palates in shapes in white sauce, and sweet-breads sliced and fried; dressed vegetables often fill up one or two of the spaces, and pastry may be used instead of potatoes. SMALL MEAT PIES. Make little cases as in recipe given; let them stand a few hours; make a little gravy with any kind of bones and trimmings; mince your meat, and season with pepper and salt. Fill the cases, cut out your lid or covei-s, make a hole in the top of them, brush the edges of your pies with water, that the cover may adhere, lay them on, pinching them well at the edges, and bake. When half done, put your gravy in with a filler. SmaU pies are usually made of mutton, and are eaten with ketchup or pickles.129 SAVOURY PIES AKD PUDDINGS. BEEF STEAK PUDDING. Cut the steak into small pieces, roll out pudding paste to the thickness of half an inch, wring a pudding cloth out of boiling water, dust flour over it, and throw it over a pudding-bowl; lift the jiaste into it, fill in the steaks, nicely seasoned, and cover them entirely with the paste folded neatly over it; fold the coi'ners of the pudding- cloth over, and put it into a pot of boiling water; boil from two to three hours. KIDNEY PUDDING. After washing and soaking the kidney in salt and water, cut it in small pieces, line a pudding-bowl with pudding paste, put in the kidneys, nicely seasoned, cover them all over with the paste, and tie the cloth over; boil three hours. Mutton or any other meat pudding is made in the I same manner. This is an economical way of using up left meat, especially if under-done. SUET PUDDING. Take one pound of flour and half a pound of suet; boil ' one cupful of milk, and pour it over two well-beat eggs; 1 add a little salt; mix this with the flour, knead it up in 1 a smooth ball, and boil it in a cloth wrung out of boiling water and floured. You may make it cheaper by substi- ■ tuting water for milk, and mixing two beat potatoes with it without eggs. It may be used with either meat or j preserves. PEASE PUDDING. Tie one pound of split pease in a cloth loosely, leaving ' them room to swell, and boil two hours; if not soft enough B130 SAVOURY PIES AND PUDDINGS, to beat or press through a cullender, boil a little longer; mix in a little butter, with pepper and salt; tie up tight in the cloth again, and boil one hour. RICE PUDDING. Make it the same as pease pudding; when turned out, pour melted butter over it, or serve the butter in a sauceboat. YORKSHIRE PUDDING. Mix five table-spoonfuls of flour with an English pint of milk, and four eggs well beaten; bake it tmder a roast of beef; when the top is brown, cut it into square pieces, and turn it to be brown on both sides; serve it in a corner dish. BATTER PUDDING. Mix six table-spoonfuls of flour with an English pint of milk and four beaten eggs, with a Uttle salt; boil it an hour and a half, turn it out, and pour melted but- ter over it. PLAIN BATTER PUDDING. Made as above, but omit the eggs, and add more milk FORCEMEATS, CURRIES, &c. TO MAKE SMALL PASTIES. Take veal or mutton kidneys, and the yolks of two hard boiled eggs; mince and season them nicely; cut out pieces of puff paste with a round fluted cutter the size of a breakfast-cup, wet them at the edges, put on a little^of the mince, double them, and fry in lard a nice brown colour. They wiU be found full of juice, and deUcious;131 FORCEMEATS, CURRIES, ETC. they are used as a corner disli, and made as small as you like. They are often used as gai-nishings, filled with any kind of meat; if to garnish fried fish, they are filled with oysters. MEAT BALLS FOR CORNER DISH. Mix pork and beef minced very fine, or sausage meat (which in town can be had at the pork butcher's); season nicely, and mix a few yolks of eggs, and sweet herbs if liked. Make them into balls the size of an egg; egg and bread-crumb them, and fry a nice light brown. VEAL AND FOWL STUFFING. Grate four ounces stale bread, mince very fine two ounces mutton suet, one half tea-spoonful powdered sweet herbs, six parsley leaves, a very little grated lemon rhind, a little of the juice of the lemon, a quarter tea-spoonful mixed sweet spice and white pepper, a pinch of salt, the yolk of an egg, and a little milk. Mix all very well to- gether, when, to be used cold, it is better to substitute butter for suet. FORCEMEAT, The foregoing recipe, or recipe for " Forcemeat Balls," are both excellent. Oyster forcemeat is made by substi- tuting minced oysters for minced meat. ITALIAN PASTIES. Make a paste with flour and olive oil; take a slice of sdmon, season it with pepper and salt, and dip it in oil; lay it in the paste, fold it up, and bake it. It is eaten cold, and will keep a long time.FORCEMEATS, CURRIES, ETC. 132 BRAIN CAKES. Soak calf's, sheep's, or lamb's brains in salt and water ; pick and wash them well, and boil half an hour in a bit of muslin. When cold beat them with the yolk of an egg, a few bread crumbs, powdered herbs, a little chopped par- sley, pepper and salt, and a little flour. Mix all together, and drop in a dessert-spoonful boiling lard; fry a nice brown, and drain t#em. They are served as garnishings. FORCEMEAT BALLS. Take a bit of ham, and any sort of white meat, such as veal, or the flesh of fowls that have been previously cooked; mix very fine, or pound it together in a mortar. Mix, with an equal proportion of bread-crumbs and suet, a few powdered sweet herbs, minced parsley, with a little pep- per and salt; grate in a little lemon rhind, and squeeze in a little lemon juice; moisten with an egg and milk. EoU them up in the form of balls; for soup, the size of the smallest marbles; for garnishings and stews, a Uttle larger. Any kind of meat Avill do to mince and use for forcemeat balls. EGG BALLS. Take the yolks of thi-ee hard-boiled eggs; bruise them fine, and make them into a paste with a raw yolk; add a small piece of butter and flour, so as you can roU them into very smaU balls. Plump them into boiling water for a few minutes to harden, to be used for stews or soups. FRIED BBEAD.—To Serve with Soup. Take slices of bread nearly half an inch in thiclcness; cut off the crusts and cut the slices intr) small squares, or into shapes with a small cutter; fry in butter a niceFORCEMEATS, CURRIES, ETC. 133 brown; drain the butter from them, and dry them on a sieve, with a cloth or paper over it before the fire. SIPPETS OF BREAD.—To Garnish Hashes. Soak toasted sippets of bread in warm milk half-an- hour; drain them and fry in butter a light brown; after which they must be dried before the fire to be nice and crisp. FRIED BREAD-CRUMBS. Grate stale bread, and fry in butter j drain, and serve quite dry, with pheasants, partridge, or grouse. POTATO RIBBONS.—Served with Game. Peel a few large potatoes; slice them about half an inch thick; take a small knife and cut them round as thin as possible; lay them in salt and water as you do them, to presei've the colour; drain them very dry, and fry them carefully, quite covered with lard, so that you do not require to turn them. Di'ain them on a cloth or a sieve before the fire, and serve with game, either as a garnishing or in a sepai-ate dish. Raw potatoes, merely sliced thin and nicely fried, are often used. BEEF CAKES—For Side Dish. Mince cold roast beef, fat and lean together; season it with pepper and salt; mix it well, and moisten slightly with yolks of eggs or milk, and make into cakes tliree inches long and half an inch thick; fry a light brown, and serve with a good gravy made from the bones. A FRICASSEE OF COLD UNDER-DONE ROAST BEEF. Cut the meat in slices, and make a good brown gravy With the bones; season nicelv. Put in a little of theFORCEMEATS, CUERIES, ETC. 134 white part of celery minced, and a little parsley. When ready, take out the bones and stir in one glass of port and the yolks of two eggs. Put in the beef to warm in it, but do not let it remain to boil, which would harden and spoil the flavour of the meat. ANOTHER ECONOMICAL WAY OF USING UP COLD MEAT. Chop lip a cabbage, and stew it in a little water, just sufficient for it, with a bit of butter, pepper, and salt. Slice the meat and lay it on the cabbage, just long enough to make it quite hot. Dish the meat over the cabbage. Green pease may be substituted for cabbage. A CORNER DISH OF MINCED MEAT. Take very small sized dinner rolls; cut off the tops and scoop out part of the bread; fill up the space with any nice mince, and put on the cover. This suits well for a supper dish, with very little trouble. SAUSAGES. In general, sausages can be procured better and cheaper from the butcher, who has machines for mincing and filling, than can be made in private families; but for those who reside in the country, or where it is not convenient to purchase from the butcher, a few directions and recipes are here given. PORK SAUSAGES. After cleaning the gut, cut it into convenient lengths, chop fat and lean of pork together, and season with pow- dered sage, pepper and salt; fill the skins, tie them at eaxih end with pack thread, flour them, and either fry or stew them; they are sometimes dressed over mashed potatoes.135 FORCEMEATS, CUERIES, ETC. BEEF AND VEAL. These are made the same way as pork, but instead of sage, use marjoram, thyme, and parsley. OXFORD SAUSAGES. Take a pound and a-half of pork, the same of veal, and three quarters of a pound of beef suet; mince and mix them. Steep a thick slice of bread in water, break it up, and mix it with the meat, with a seasoning of sage, pepper, and salt. FHl the skins, and either fry or stew them. BLACK PUDDINGS. The blood is stirred till cold, after sprinkling in a little salt. Mix in a few groats, or a little oatmeal and bread grated and soaked in milk; add plenty of seasoning, and plenty of beef or pork suet. When well mixed, half fill the skins, and prick them with a fork when they begin to swell, to prevent them bursting. Some add a few eggs, and they are often more simply made by seasoning the blood and adding the suet merely. Tt is impossible to give exact proportions, but there should be plenty of suet, as they are not good if dry. Experience will direct better; what they want the one time, can be supplied at the next attempt. BLACK PUDDINGS —Another Way. Mix the blood with a little milk, oatmeal, and plenty of suet, with minced onions, pepper, and salt ; fiU the skins and tie them. Boil slowly oue hour ; hang them up, and when wanted either broil them or do them in the Dutch oven before the fire, or slice and fry them.FORCEMEATS, CUREIES, ETC. 136 WHITE PUDDINGS Are either made of flour or oatmeal. If of oatmeal, to every pound add rather more than half a pound of minced suet. Some put a few chopped onions, but they are better without. More than half fill the skins, and put them into a pan of boiling water ; boil an hour. If not rich enough for your taste, add more suet; they are hung up, and will keep a long while. SWEET WHITE PUDDINGS. Mix half a pound of suet to one pound of flour, half an ounce mixed sweet spice; half a jjound cleaned cur- rants and a little sugar; fill the skins more than half fuU allowing room to swell; boil one hour. SWEET WHITE PUDDINGS.—Akother Wat. Mix equal proportions of grated bread, minced apples, and suet; currants, with mixed sweet spice, and a little sugar; boU in skins an hour. To be heated up when wanted. TRIPE. This is purchased all readyfor cooking from the butcher; it will take six pounds for one tureen. Put it on in cold water to boil (without salt) and let it simmer very slowly four hours. Take out the ti'ipe and cut it into pieces three inches square; put it into the soup again well seasoned with white j^epper and salt, and a few minced onions (to those who take onions). Boil half an hour, and add a pint of mUk when boiling ; beat up three yolks of eggs, and stir in with a table-spoonful of common or jom flour, and one ounce of butter.FORCEMEATS, CURKIES, ETC. 137 STEWED TRIPE Is cooked and cut into square pieces and served with white or onion sauces poured over it. FRIED TRIPE. Having boiled and cut the tripe into pieces an inch and a half square, dip them into thick pancake batter, seasoned with a little pepper and salt, and fry them a nice brown. For a plain family dish, where economy is studied, tripe is boiled in water till tender, cut in pieces, and the sauce thickened with flour only, seasoned with pepper, salt, and a few onions. OX PALATES—For Side Dish. Four make a dish. Soak them well in fresh water, and wash the slime quite away; put them on the fire and cover with cold water; simmer very slowly three hours. Stretch them on a board with something flat and heavy over them to keep them straight until quite cold; skin and spread over them a mixture of bread-crumbs, suet, a raw egg, and a little minced parsley, with pepper and salt. Roll them up and bind with broad tape; stew in the gravy, with which they were formerly stewed, a little white pepper and one blade mace for half an hour; pour in a cup of cream or nailk; dish the palates, gently un- tying the tape; strain and thicken the sauce with corn- flour; pour over the palates and garnish with sliced orange or lemon. OX PALATES.—No. IL—A Corner Dish. Prepare them as in the former recipe, and when they have been spread out and are cold, cut them into shapes; pour a white sauce over them. They are sometimes served s138' FORCEMEATS, CURRIES, ETC. ill :i l:)rown sauce, and for a comer dish also may be done exactly as No. 1; but cut in two or three lengthways. They are sometimes cut in small fillets and served in soup, TO FRY COLD VEAL. Cut the veal in very thin slices, and dip in yolks of eggb and then in crumbs of bread, mixed with sweet herbs, grated lemon peel, and grated nutmeg. Fry in a little fresh butter, just what will do them; dish them and keep hot before the fire. Having made a rich gravy with the bones and trimmings, pour it over the veal and serve. A COMMON DISH OF VEAL. Cut veal that has been previously cooked, into pieces the size of a small nut, put it into a saucepan with milk suffi- cient to cover it; add a Uttle grated nutmeg or white pepper, a very little salt, a smaU piece of buttter rolled in flour, the yolks of two eggs well beat, and stir aU together until quite thick; garnish with lemon. MINCED VEAL. Mince the veal as fine as possible; season it nicely, according to taste ; dust it over with floui-; moisten with water and stir over the fire until it is through the boil. Toast a slice of bread a nice brown, and cut it into neat small three-cornered pieces (without the crust) and place them round the dish; pour the mince in the centre. COLD LEFT FOWLS. Pick the meat from the bones and mince it; make a nice gravy from the bones; strain the gravy and heat the mince in it, thickening and seasoning to taste.FORCEMEATS, CURRIES, ETC. •139 ROAST CALF'S LIVER. Lai'd it with bacon and roast it. SWEET BREADS.—No. I. and II. Soak them in fresh water and wash them well; stew very gently two hours; slice and pour a white sauce over them; or, after slicing them, dip theni in thick pancake batter and fry them, placing them neatly round the dish, and pour a brown sauce in the centre. SWEET BREADS.—No. IIL Lard a pair of sweet breads with slips of bacon ; open them in such a manner that you can stuff them with force- meat ; fasten with wooden skewers. Roast them before the fire to do the top ; take a stew-pan and lay a slice of ham in it, with an onion sliced, pepper, salt, a blade of mace, and a few sweet herbs ; put in the sweet breads, cover the pan close, and let it stew over a slow fire a quarter of an hour, then cover them with boiling water and stew gently an hour and a-half; dish them, strain the gravy, pour it over them, and garnish with lemon. For a corner dish they may be sliced. A PRETTY SIDE DISH OF SWEET BREADS. Parboil one or two sweet breads; then slice and dip them in yolks of eggs, or either dust flour over them or fine bread-crumbs, mixed with pepper and salt, and fry them; have a mould of spinage ; turn it out in the centre of a corner dish, and dish the sweet breads all round, leaning on the spinage; serve gravy in a sauce boat. BIRD'S NEST.—Corner Dish. Boil four eggs hard peel them, brush over or roll them140 FORCEMEATS, CURRIES, ETC. in beat yolks of eggs, and fine breaxi-cnimbs, mixed with seasoning; cover with a thick coating; fry and divide them; lay them in a corner dish, and pour a nice brown gravy sauce over them. POACHED EGGS AND SPINAGE. Fry a slice of bread ; cut off the crust and butter it; lay it in a ashet, and a thick layer of dressed spinage; keep it hot; put butter over it. Poach four eggs nicely and lay over the spinage, with a sprinkling of fine salt, pepper, and a small piece of butter all over it; serve quite hot. STEWED BEEF TONGUE. The remains of cold tongue cut into thick slices stewed in a little gravy, with potato border round the dish. FRICASSEED TONGUE. Out slices from a tongue that has been cooked, or the remains; stew them in a little gravy, with pepper, salt, mace, onions, and a few sweet herbs; strain the gravy and thicken with butter aud flour, and the yolks of two eggs. STEWED GIBLETS. Wash the giblets well ; cut them in small pieces, all except the liver (which is grated after stewing); wipe them dry aud roll them in flour; fry them in a Httle dripping^ and stew till tender, with minced onions and a seasoning of salt, white and cayenne pepper. RISSOLES AND CROQUETTES—Corner Dishes Are made of left portions of any delicate meat, such as veal, . aine, or poultry. For rissoles, the meat is mincedFORCEMEATS, CURRIES, ETC. 141 and seasoned very nicely, and put between layers of paste and fried. Croquettes are made into balls, and fried or stewed without paste, and are served on napkins, garnished witli fried parsley. They are egg and bread-crumbed sometimes, and look pretty with a coating of boiled rice, and fried a nice brown. POTATO BALLS RAGOUT. Mix beat potatoes with any nice meat you have—ham is best; season very nicely; make them into balls not larger than an egg,-by pressing them into the bowl of two table-spoons, and fry them. Any nice gravy drawn from bones or trimmings you have serve in the dish. A PUREE OF FOWL. Mince all the white meat of fowls, and warm it in cream or milk, with grated lemon peel and j nice, or lemon pickle; put a rice border round a dish, egg it over, and brown it; or leave the rice white, and garnish with thin slices of pickled cucumber; pour in the mince, and serve hot. SWEETBREAD OMELET. Mince very finely any remains of sweetbreads, and season them nicely; for one omelet, beat up the yolks and whites of three eggs separately, stir in a dessert-spoonful of rice-flour amongst the yolks, stir in the mince, but see that it has been highly seasoned, and lastly, the whites. Stir all together, and pour into a hot frying-pan in which about an ounce of butter has been melted; hold the pan over the fire for about ten minutes, or until you think it is quite done; do not turn it but put it before the fire to brown; it will rise very light. Serve on a napkin; those who like sweet herbs, or parsley, may add them.FORCEMEATS, CURUIES, ETC. 142 SAVOURY OMELET—From Minced Meat of any Kisd. Mince cold left meat of any kind, and mix -with pancake batter; fry either in small cakes or bake it in a pie-disk CHICKEN CURRY. After cleaning what chickens you want, skin them; cut the wings at the joints in two, and cut off the legs> separating them and the side bones; cut down the breast and the body in four pieces; soak them, that the flesh may be very white; put them in a stew-pan, and cover with water. Mince a few onions, and an acid apple, season with white pepper and salt, and one blade of mace; cover the pan close, and stew gently one hour ; bruise one dessert-spoonful of curry powder, the same of flour, as in bruising starch, mix with a very little cold water, thicken the sauce with this, and pour over the chickens. Serve rice either round it, or in a separate dish To boil rice for curry, see Recipe. RABBIT CURRY. Cut up two rabbits in pieces, roll each piece in flour> and fry in nice dripping till brown; put them into a stew- pan with four large onions minced; cover with gravy or water. Mix a table-spoonful of curry powder, a little salt, a tea-spoonful chutnee in four table-spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, and the same of vinegar; stew slowly three hours; if the gravy is too thin, thicken with a Uttle flour. Dish the meat neatly, and pour your sauce over it. PLAIN RABBIT CURRY. Put a table-spoonful of good di-ipping in the stew-pan, dust a little flour over it, cut up the rabbit, roU each pieceFORCEMEATS, CURRIES, ETC. 143 in floux', and lay the pieces in tlie stew-pan; sprinkle a few minced onions over them, wibh a little white pepper and salt; cover, and let them simmer slowly for twenty minutes; cover them with hot water, and stew two hours. Dish, and stir into the sauce a dessert-spoonful of curry, the same of common flour, and a little vinegar; pour over the meat, and serve with rice round the dish. In curry- ing, be sure you study the tastes of those who are to par- take of the curry. Yeal is curried in the same manner. It is a good way of using up any left meat to slice it, make a gravy from the bones, curry it, and warm up the meat in it. CURRIED LOBSTER.—Fob a Corner Dish. Pick the meat from the lobster as whole as possible j place it in a stew-pan, add a breakfast cupful of milk, and one ounce of butter; stew gently half an hour, lift out the meat, and curry the sauce in the usual way; pour the sauce over, and serve^very hot. If cream is used instead of milk, butter is unncessary. Curry salmon or turbot the same way for a side or corner dish. A CORNER DISH—Italian. BoU macaroni until just tender enough to cut it in rings; butter a plain pudding mould, and place them all over the mould to represent a honey-comb; mince any meat you have very fine; season well; dust a little flour amongst it; mix a few bread-crumbs, a little cayenne, ketchup, and Worcester sauce, pepper and salt, and moisten with a little gravy; pour into the mould, tie a pudding-cloth tightly over it, and boil an hour; let it stand a few minutes out of the water before turning out, which you must do very carefully. Serve a little gravy in a tureen.144 FORCEMEATS, CURRIES, ETC. BAKED BEEF AND BATTER PUDDING. Lay a nice tender steak in a pie-dish; dust over a little pepper and salt; cover with pancake batter, and bake in a slow oven an hour. HASHES Are generally made of cold left meat of all kinds, and is a most economical way of using it up. The bones should be stewed for a long time, to draw a good gravy, which should be strained, and the meat finely minced; add a little ketchup and browning; thicken with flour. Let it come fairly through the boil, to take ofi" the rawness of the flour. RAl^IAKINS. Scrape or grate a quarter pound of Cheshire cheese, and add a slice of fresh butter; soak a thick slice of bread in boiling cream or milk; beat them all together in a mortar, with the yolks of two eggs; mix the whites of the eggs, beaten to a snow, and bake in buttered cheese-cake pans 3 turn out when done, and serve on a napkin. This batter may be served over boiled macaroni, and browned; it is very good poured over broccoli, caulifiowers, or stewed celery. SAVOURY OB ASPIC JELLY. Take from two to three pounds of knuckle of veal, break it all up in pieces, cover it with cold water, and put it on the hot plate to come slowly to boil, skim it care- fully, and add one blade of mace, two cloves, and a tea- spoonful of white peppercorns. Let them simmer very gently two hoixrs, add one half tea-spoonful of salt, and strain the gravy. Soak an ounce of "Extract of Calves' Feet" for nearly twenty minutes in cold water, pour theFORCEMEATS, CUERIliS, mv. 145 •water from it, and add the extract to the strained gravy; add also a few drops of lemon juice, and a small piece of lemon rind. Instead of the lemon juice a table-spoonful of tarragon vinegar may be used. Put them on the fire, and see that the extract is dissolved. When it boils whisk into it very quickly the whites and shells of three eggs which have been slightly frothed j let them remain on the fire a few minutes, and cover quite closely afterwards with a thick woollen cloth. Pour it carefully through a jelly bag. It may be improved in appearance by colouring it with saffron and cochineal. It is sometimes coloured in different shades, and is used for garnishing cold dishes TO ROAST CHESNUTS FOR DESSERT. Boil them fifteen minutes, cut a small portion fi-om the the pointed ends, which prevents them from bursting, and roast them in the oven. They are served hot in a neatly folded napkin. CHEESE FINGER CAKES. Mix well together with the hand, four ounces of fine bread-crumbs, four ounces of grated Cheshire cheese, four ounces of fresh butter, a quarter of a tea-spoonful of white pepper, with a pinch of cayenne. Make it up into a round ball, roll it out to the thickness of half an inch, cut it into two inch lengths, and bake them. THE JUICE OF BEETROOT, FOR COLOURING. Wash and peel a few nice fresh beets, cut them all up in small pieces, put them in an earthen jar, cover them with boiling water and a little salt, place the jar in a pot of boiling water, and simmer t wo hours. Strain and when quite cold, bottle for use. T14G FORCEMEATS, CURKIES, ETC. KOLCANNON—An Irish Dish. Strip tlie leaves from a few stocks of nice freshly gathered German greens, mince them as fine as possible after washing them, put them into boiling water with a little salt; and a very little carbonate of soda; have as many potatoes boiled as you require, and when the greens are cooked sufficiently, put them together, add a small piece of butter, and a little mUk, and mash them nicely. It makes a very nice dish when properly cooked. BAKED RICE AND MILK. Pick and wash half a pound of rice, put it into a medium sized pudding dish, and sweeten it, nearly fill the dish with milk, and place it in a moderately heated oven to cook slowly. It should absorb the milk. Cream is served with it. POACHED EGGS. Place a very clean frying pan on the fire, half filled with water, salt the water slightly, and when it boils remove any scum that may be on the surface, and take the pan from the fire, drop carefully into separate cups, as many eggs as you require, and slip them gently into the pan, let them remain so until they are partially set, which will take place in about five minutes, return the pan to the fire. One or two boils up will finish them; slip them fforn the pan with an egg slice, and trim them by cutting away any loose pieces from the edges. OX-TAIL HAKICOT. Disjoint an ox-tail and stew it, seasoned with pepper and salt; half an hour before it is done add a cupful ofFOECEMEATS, CURRIES, ETC. 147 cut carrot and turnip, a handful of parsley leaves, and a few sliced onions; add a little more flavouring when done; dish up with the joints over the vegetables. TENDONS OF VEAL. The tendons of veal are the gristly parts of the breast bone not turned into bone. Cut them from the flesh and braise them in vegetables until they have become quite soft; put them on an ashet; put another flat dish over them with a weight on it; when cold, cut them into diamond shaped cutlets; boil the liquor in which they have been cooked to a strong glaze; after straining it, season it nicely; heat the cutlets in it, and dish them neatly round a mould of spinage in a comer dish. MUTTON HARICOT. Take three or four pounds shoulder of mutton, stew it an hour, cut a turnip and carrot in shapes, a few sliced onions, and a handful of chopped parsley, simmer another hour, season to taste, with pepper and salt. CHEESE OMELET. Beat three eggs in a basin, add a table-spoonful of cream, pepper, and very little salt, also two ounces of parmesan ■ cheese; melt two ounces fresh butter in an omelet pan; when it boils, pour in the mixture, stir until it is quite : set, and when nicely browned in the under side, double it ' over and serve. OMELET, WITH KIDNEYS. Prepare the mixture the same way as the cheese ome- I let, prepare some kidney chop and season them very 1 nicely, and put them on one half of the omelet, and ' double it over.148 FORCEMEATS, CURRIES, ETC. OMELETS WITH OYSTERS. The same as previous; instead of kidneys, take nicely fried oysters. POACHED EGGS ON ANCHOVY TOAST. Prepare toast in the same manner as anchovy toast, previously given ; lay a poached egg on each piece of toast. They are very savoury when poached in the drippings from fried ham. A SAVOURY LUNCHEON DISH. Boil six eggs quite hard, and slice them; make a nice thick sauce, with a little white sauce or cream, two ounces grated parmesan, or any other cheese, pepper, a little salt, the juice of a lemon, a small piece of butter, and the yolks of four eggs ; stir the sauce over the fire until it thickens ; dish the eggs in a pyramid form, with a little sauce over each row, pour the remainder over them; dredge fine brown crumbs over them, and put in the oven for a few minutes; sippets may be served with them. SAVOURY DISH OF EGGS AND CHEESE. Melt a piece of butter in a flat ashet, cover it with thin slices of nice cheese; break six or eight eggs over it, taking care not to break the yolks; dust pepper and salt over them, and add three table-spoonfuls of cream; grate cheese thickly over the top, and bake three quartere of an hour; serve nice crisp hot toast with it. EGGS FRIED.—French Recipe. Poach as many eggs as may be required in butter, without breaking the yolks, seasoned with pepper and salt; dish them; add more butter to the pan, and let it becomeFORCEMEATS, CURRIES, ETC. 149 of a nut brown ; add two table-spoonfuls of vinegar; boil a few mini;tes, and pour over. MACARONI, WITH CREAM. Boil four ounces of macaroni in water until tender ; drain, and cut it into two inch lengths; put it into a stew- pan with a piece of butter the size of a small egg, a little cream, two ounces of grated parmesan cheese, and a seasoning of white pepper and salt; stir over the fire until quite hot; shake it round in the jjan, to make it nice and frothy. ROMAN PIE. Boil a couple of rabbits, cut the meat from them in thin slices, line a raised pie mould with paste, and fill it with the meat; hard-boiled eggs, grated parmesan, boiled macaroni, and vermicelli, cut in small j)ieces, flavour very highly with cayenne, &c.; add a cup of cream and the gravy, cover and bake an hour. VEAL CUTLETS WITH MUSHROOMS. Fry a dish of nice cutlets, and pour over them mush- room sauce. EGGS POACHED WITH MINCED VEAL. Mince very fine some nice cold roast veal, make a gravy of the bones ; dish, and serve with poached eggs over it. CALF'S BRAINS. Soak the brains in salt and water, parboil them, season them with pepper, salt, and herb powder, fry them in browned butter, and pour it over them when done, and garnish with fried parsley.150 FORCEMEATS, CURRIES, ETC. OX-FEET STEWED. Purchase an ox-foot all ready for cooking, split it, and break the bone, soak it in cold water and salt an hour, cover it with cold water, season with white pepper and salt, and let it simmer four hours ; put it into a large bowl, and pour the gravy over it, let it remain so until quite cold ; take the oil and marrow from it, and turn it out; it is commonly used cold, but may be re warmed in a little of the gravy, with a piece of butter in it, or served with parsley and butter sauce. CALF'S FEET. Boil caK's feet in the same manner as previous recipe, when done, drain them from the gravy, fry a few slices of nice bacon, lift the bacon from the pan and fiy the feet; dish them with the bacon round them. The boilings from the feet are useful iu making jelly. FRIED BREAD CRUMBS. Make some fine sifted bread crumbs, melt a piece of butter in a frying pan, and stir the crumbs in it, until they are of a nice brown colour, and quite free from grease; they are served with game birds. SANDWICHES.—Bacou and Beef. Cut bread into nice thin slices, butter them, and be- tween each two slices of buttered bread put bacon and boiled beef ham, cut very thin, spread a Uttle good mus- tard over, and cut in halves or quarters. CHICKEN AND HAM SANDWICHES. Take cooked ham, or tongue and chicken, mince very fine, and pound quite smooth in a mortar, moisten withFORCEMEATS, CURRIES, ETC. 151 any nice spicy sauce, season to taste, and spread the mixture between two slices of buttered bread. FRIED SAVOURY SANDWICHES. Prepare tbe sandwiches as above, cut them into diamond shapes, and fry them a light brown; cover them with giated parmesan, or any other cheese, and brown them before the lire or in an oven; dish them neatly on a napkin. SALAD SANDWICHES. Pound cold roast lamb in a mortar, freed from skin, until it is quite smooth; season it with salt, jiepper, a tea- spoonful of made mustard, cayenne, and a little vinegar; boil an egg until it is quite hard; mix it very fine with garden cress and any small salad that may be convenient; mix all together with the lamb, and spread the mutton on buttered bread, as sandwiches. Lobster, or any nice fish maybe minced, seasoned nicely, and made into sandwiches. EGGS DRESSED AS A CORNER DISH. Boil six eggs quite hard, cut them in halves, take out the yolks and rub them quite smooth; mix them with a spoonful of pounded ham, a little cream, nutmeg, and pepper, very little salt; fill the whites with the mixture, moisten the edges with raw egg to fasten them; egg, crumb, and fry them; cut a small piece ofi" one end so that they may stand up like cups ; dish them neatly in a corner dish. ANCHOVY BUTTER. Bone six anchovies, pound them in a mortar, and add to them a few parsley leaves, parboiled, and two ounces fresh butter; press the mixture through a sieve, and make it up into little pats with wooden butter scoops.FORCEMEATS, CURRIES, ETC. 152 LOBSTER BUTTER. Prepare it in tlie same manner as anchovy butter, with boiled lobster. BEEF-STEAK AND OYSTER PIES. Cut up the steak, but do not roll it, season them nicely with pepper and salt, and fry them; three pounds of steak will make a good sized pie, beard and strain the juice from a quarter hundred of oysters, fry them also, and fill the pie dish, add the strained juice of the oysters and a little water; cover with a nice paste; three quarters of an hour will bake it. MUTTON OR BEEF COLD-MEAT PIE. Melt a small piece of dripping in the bottom of a pie dish, cover it with mashed potatoes, put a layer of cold sliced meat over the potatoes, fill the dish in this manner, moisten with gTavy, cover it with the potatoes, brush them over with beaten yolk of egg, and bake for half an hour. BEEF-STEAK AND KIDNEY PUDDING. Line a pudding mould with paste, and fill it with beef- steak and mutton kidneys, season nicely, cover it up, and bake it. MUTTON PUDDING. Mince cold left mutton; stu-it into pancake batter; season it nicely with a finely minced onion, pepper, salt, and chopped parsley; steam or bake it. FRENCH PANADA FOR FORCEMEAT. Take out the inside crumb of two breakfast rolls, pour atea-cupfid of boiUng milk over it, cover up to soak, strain the milk from it, and put it into a stew-pan with half aFOKCEMEATS, CUEUIES, ETC. 153 cupful of white stock, fry a slice of liam with about an ounce of butter, a bay leaf, two shallots, a clove, a blade of mace, the yolks of two eggs, a few mushrooms, and minced parsley ; when done, moisten with a little stock, and simmer for twenty minutes; strain it over the panada in the stew-pan, stir all over the fire until quite dry, add the yolks of two raw eggs, and a piece of butter; stir well togethei". FISH FORCEMEAT. Forcemeat for stuifing fish may be made of white fish, lobsters, or crabs. LOBSTER QUENELLES. BoU a small lobster, take out the meat and pound it in a mortar, with a few pieces of celery, the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, seasoning to taste with cayenne, mace, white pepper, and salt; add three tablespoonfuls of bread" crumbs; melt a small piece of biitter and stir amongst the mixture, also two raw eggs; make them up in the form of small eggs, and fry them. CRAB QUENELLES. The meat of crabs are made into quenelles in the same manner as lobster. LOBSTER AND CRAB PATTIES. Lobster or crab meat for patties is pounded very smoothly, or minced very fine, moisten it witli cream and stir it over the fire, with a small piece of butter, season to taste with cayenne, mace, and white pepper, a tea-spoonful of lemon juice is an improvement; when it boils fill pattie cases with it. (See Recipe for Pattie Cases.) u154 FORCEMEATS, CURRIES, ETC. MARROW TOAST. Take the marrow from the bone and mince it, stir it in a frying pan over the fire for a minute, with pepper, salt, and chopped parsley, spread it over nice hot toast. MARROW PATTIES. Fill pattie cases with the above ; a very small piece of minced shallot, and a smaU quantity lemon juice, may be added at pleasure. A SAVOURY DISH OF RICE. Boil half a pound of rice as for cmry, drain it as dry as possible, fry it in butter, with a seasoning of nutmeg pepper, and salt, boil two eggs hard, mince the white part?, and add any nice cooked meat, or fish; dish in a corner dish, piling it up high, rub the yolks of the eggs through a sieve, mix with grated parmesan cheese, and strew over the top; brown slightly in the oven. RICE CROQUETTES. Take half a pound of nice boiled rice, stir it over the fire with two table-spoonfuls of white stock, the yolks of three raw eggs, with nutmeg, pepper, and salt; when the eggs are set, cool it; take a table-spoonful of rice, make a hollow in the centre with a tea-spoon, and fill up the space with any nice mince; envelope it with the rice e^cc, and crumb them, and fry a light brown; garnish with fried parsley; to be served hot. CURRIED RICE. Boil half a pound of rice and drain it, stir it over the fire with a small piece of butter and a tea-spoouful of curry powder.155 FORCEMEATS, CURRIES, ETC. TOASTED CHEESE. Slice whatever quantity of nice melting cheese is required, put it in a tin cheese toaster before the fire to melt; when quite melted, stir in a piece of fresh butter, a Little white pejjper, and a tea-spoonful of made mustard. ANCHOVY TOAST. Spread some nice toast with anchovy butter, cut it into stripes, so that one anchovy may be laid on each, with anchovy butter, and lay the anchovies over it; dish them like lattice work, or spread anchovy like paste over, and custard sauce flavoured spices. AN ITALIAN CORNER DISH, OR ENTREE. Mince very nicely half a pound of cold roast beef, to this add a few mushrooms, tongue or ham (if convenient), two ounces parmesan cheese grated, or any other cheese ; season slightly with shallot, nutmeg, and any other sauce or seasoning to taste; add the yolks of three eggs, and moisten with a little good gravy; stir over the fire until the eggs are quite set; spread it on an ashet smoothly, about half an inch in thickness; when cold, cut in diamond shapes, and fry in lard; drain from the lard and keep hot; boil and cut in inch lengths some macaroni, stir it over the fire in a little cream or milk, grated cheese, an egg, cayenne and white pepper; pour it into the dish, and place the fried meat neatly round it. BRAISED OX-TAIL. Stew an ox-tail until nice and tender, without jointing it; having turned it round in the stew-pan, season theFORCEMEATS, CURRIES, ETC. 156 gravy, and let boil into a thick glaze; disli it witt pease heaped up in the centre; pour the glaze over the tail. SAVOURY OMELET. Beat up four eggs very light, add to them a table- spoonful of cream, a seasoning of white and cayenne pepper and salt, a young leek or mild onion chopped very fine, also a dessert-spoonful of suet, melt a piece of butter in the frying pan, and pour in the mixture, let it be done slowly, and when it is of a fine light brown, double it in the usual way of serving an omelet, and serve it on a napkin; a little flour may be used if wished firmer. SAVOURY OMELET. Take the yolks of six and the whites of three eggs, beat them separately until extremely light, season to taste with pepper and salt, add two ounces more butter in the pan, stir in the whites to the seasoned yolks, and pour into the omelet pan, stir with a spoon until it has set, and when nicely browned on one side, hold it before the fire for a few minutes, double it over, and serve the usual way; minced onion, grated ham, cheese, &c., may be added to this omelet. ASPARAGUS PUDDING. Cut up a breakfast-cupful of asparagus points, add to them four well beaten eggs, two table-spoonfuls of flour, one of grated ham, an ounce of butter, pepper and salt to taste, and a little milk, mix them all nicely, and pour into a buttered mould, and steam it two hours; to be turned out of the mould when done.IS7 SAUCES. There is an expression in common use, to the effect that, " soups and sauces must taste of everything and yet taste of nothing." Tliis seems ridiculous to a certain ex- tent ; for instance, oyster soup and sauce must have the predominating flavour of the oyster, from which they each take their name. The same can be said of celery, onion, and mint sauce; indeed, you can always tell what soup or sauce you are partaking of from its own peculiar predom- inating flavour. There is scarcely, at the same time, a more particular branch in cookery, and one that is so much neglected as the making up of nice relishing sauces. The Savoury sauces made by Lazenby, Cross and Blackwell, Harvey, &c., may all be used at discretion, by those who choose, in addition for extra seasonings. BEOWN GEAVY SAUCE. Hot sauces are either brown or white. For brown sauce, put a piece of butter or dripping into the saucepan, melt it a,nd dust with flour. When quite brown, but not burnt, put in the meat, bones, or trimmings of whatever kind you mean to use for the purpose; mince a few onions and add, if the flavour be agreeable; add, also, seasoning to taste, and boiling water; cover and let simmer for a long time to draw out the goodness. When the sauce is wanted, it is strained and thickened, if necessary (brown sauce is always made a little thinner than white sauce) with corn-flour. If not brown enough, add a little browning.SAUCES. 158 BROWNING.—No. I. Take equal proportions of brown sugar and salt, say a table-spoonful of each ; put tbem into an iron pot (see that it is not a tinned one) and make it quite brown; remove it from the fire, and when the heat subsides a little, put a breakfaiit-cup of warm water over it, and return it to the fire ; stir until fairly dissolved. Strain and bottle for use, either for soups or sauces. BROWNING.—No. II. Put six ounces of crushed loaf-sugar and two ounces of butter in a sauce-pan, stir it with a wooden spoon until qi;ite brown and bottle it. BROWNING.—No. IH. Make as No. II., but add a little port wine, lemon peel, salt, cloves, a little black and Jamaica pepper, and a blade of mace. Simmer gently over the fire ten minutes; strain and bottle for use. HORSE-RADISH SAUCE FOR ROAST BEEF. Grate a tea-cupful of horse-radish, add a pinch of salt, a dessert-spoonful of made mustard, two of sugar, a little cream and vinegar, enough to make it the consistence of good cream ; serve in a sauce-boat. ANOTHER. SUITABLE FOR STEAK. Grate a tea-cupful of hoi'se-radish, put it into a pint bottle, add a table-spoonful of raw sugar, and one of made mustard ; fill up the bottle with good vinegar, and shake it well. It will keep a long while; keep a little of it in a cruet bottle in your stand.159 SAUCES. WHITE SAUCE. Make the stock from white meat of some kind, a small kmickle of veal, trimmings, or any odds or ends of poultry; stew thera in water with white pepper, salt, and a bit of mace. When all the goodness is extracted, strain and thicken with corn-flour and cream or milk. ONION SAUCE. Boil the onions in milk and water till they are quite soft; pi'ess them through a cullender with a wooden spoon, and boil them up with cream or milk, or the yolk of an egg; add a bit of butter, with pepper and salt; stir over the fire again until quite through th.e boil. MUSHROOM SAUCE. Wash and pick a pint of young mushrooms; rub them with salt to take off the tender skin, and put them into a saucepan with a little salt, a pint of cream, a little mace, and white pepper, and a good piece of butter rolled in flour; boil them up and stir them till done. If fresh mushrooms cannot be had, use pickled ones or mushi-oom powder, which can be had at the Italian warehouses. LEMON WHITE SAUCE, FOR BOILED FOWLS. Pare the rhind of a small lemon very thin ; put it into a nice clean saucepan with a pint of rich sweet cream, a spray of lemon tliyme, and a dozen of white peppei'corns; simmer gently untU it tastes well of the lemon; strain and return it to the fire; put in a small piece of fresh butter, and thicken with a dessert-spoonful of flour; squeeze in the juice of the lemon, but you must stir it very well so as not to curdle the cream.IGO SAUCES. LEMON SAUCE.—No. II. Make a nice butter sauce ; take the yellow and •white inner rhind from a small lemon ; slice the lemon, and cut each slice in eight pieces, and stir it amongst the sauce after you have taken it off the fire. MADE BUTTER, OR BUTTER SAUCE. Take a dessert-spoonful of either corn or common flour; bruise it gradually, as you do starch, with a break- fast cup of milk; cut up two ounces of fresh butter, and put all into a small clean saucepan, shaking the pan over the fire without stopping, until it comes through the boil. You will find this if you do it right, a much better way than stirring it with a spoon This sauce is the founda- tion for a great many sauces. EGG SAUCE—No. I. Boil two eggs hard, mince the yolks very fine, cut out one of the whites in stripes with a notched cutter, and mince the other with the yolk, stirred into butter sauce. EGG SAUCE—No. II. Melted bulter sauce poured over the beat yolks of two eggs. CAPER SAUCE. If for boiled mutton, make butter sauce with part of the gravy that has boiled the mutton, instead of mUk ; add cream, and a table-spoonful capers chopped or whole, as you please; a few chopped green gherkins, or pickled cucumbers do very weU. Very young pease do beautifully, preserved in vinegar, and used exactly as capers.161 SAUCES. PARSLEY AND BUTTER SAUCE. Wash and pick the leaves from the stalks of fresh green parsley; mince it, and stir it into butter sauce. OYSTER SAUCE. Beard a quarter hundred of small oysters ; strain the juice; stir it and the oysters into butter sauce, with a little ground white pepper. LOBSTER SAUCE. There is a remark frequently made that this sauce is like eating fish with fish; the reason for this is, that tlie sauce is generally served with too much of the meat in it, and in too large pieces. Mince a portion of the meat of one lobster (not nearly the half, and*t must be minced veiy fine, or pounded in a morter), with part of the spawn or coral berries, and stirred over the fire in very good melted butter. BREAD SAUCE, FOR GAME, &c.—No. L Take half a slice of bread without crust, two large onions peeled and sliced, a tea-spoonful of white pepper- corns, a blade of mace, and a little salt. Boil them in a small saucepan, more than covered with water, until the bread has soaked up all the water; pulp it through a sieve, and stir in a little .butter, and cream or milk. If cream is used do not take butter. Stir over the fire until it boils. GAME SAUCE—No. IL Take half a pint of brown gravy, as in recipe previously I given; add the grated rhind and : -lice of half a lemon, and I a little wine; a little cayenne pepper may be added if ' wished. To be poured over the game.lCi2 SAUCES. APPLE SAUCE. Pare and core carefully two large apples ; put them into a small white jelly jar that will just hold them ; put in a very little water and sugar; put the jar m a pan of water over the fire, until the apples are quite a pulp; beat them small, and add a Uttle ^'inegar. Some add a bit of butter, but as it is used to roast goose or pork, butter is unnecessary. GRAVY FOR WILD FOWL.—No. L Take a wine glassful of port wine, a table-spoonful of ketchup, the same of lemon juice, a little of the essence of shallot (if liked), a little grated lemon peel, white pepper, and cayenne ; stir them over the fire until they boil; strain and pour into the roasting pan amongst the gravy from the fowls; score the breasts and pour the gravy over them. GRAVY FOR WILD FOWL.—No. II. Mix in a cup of gravy a tea-spoonful of made mustard, a spoonful of ketchup, an onion, a lump or two of white sugar, a little salt, nutmeg, and mace, the juice of half a lemon ; simmer for ten minutes ; take out the omon, -a add a cup of port wine. It may be made and bottled for CELERY SAUCE. Stew the white part of celery minced in milk, with a littlebutter, white pepper,and salt; thicken with corn-flour. GOOSEBERRY SAUCE. Stew a breakfast-cupful of green gooseberries and pulp them through a sieve; mix with a little vinegar and su^, stew a bit of mace with them, but take it out before pulpingSAUCES. 163 them- very small green gooseberries may be scalded and stirred into melted butter. MINT SAUCE. Pick green mint leaves carefully from the stalks, mince them fine, put them into a bottle, half fill it, and put in a table spoonful of brown sugar; fill up the bottle with good vinegar—white vinegar is best. The longer it stands the better, to extract the flavour; this is a better plan than merely making it as wanted, because what is left in the tureen is generally thrown out. TOMATO SAUCE. Place the tomatoes in a jar in a pan of boiling water, with or without a few shallots, for an hour; drain and press them through a cuUeader, add cayenne pepper to taste, and a little vinegar; bottle for use. They may also be done iu a jar in the oven. CUCUMBER SAUCE.—No. I. Cut a portion of pickled cucumber into small dice; stir into melted butter, with a little of the vinegar in which it was pickled, to give it the flavour. CUCUMBER SAUCE.—No. II. Cut pickled cucumber into dice; pour a little vinegar and sugar over it. This is suitable for cold meat. CURRY SAUCE. Stir a dessert-spoonful of curry powder in melted butter betore pouring it into your sauce-boat.SAUCES. 164 SHARP SAUCE. One tea-cupful of vinegar, -with one table-spoonful of sugar; stir in a small saucepan over the fire until the sugar is dissolved; season with a very little cayenne and mace powdered CHUTNEE SAUCE. Take equal proportions in weight of apples, plums, stoned raisins, and brown sugar, say four ounces each; pound them all to a mash; add a melon, put it all together into a jar, and add two ounces cayenne pepper, one of gi'ound ginger, and a good deal of salt; pour in vinegar to moisten it. It must be about the consistency of mai-malade. GLAZE.—No. I. Glaze is made by boiling gelatinous meat of any kind, until it is a strong jelly; strain it, add seasonings, and stir in prepared gelatine untU it is quite thick; it must be coloured a dark brown with browning. Pour it into pud- ding skins to keep for use. GLAZE.—No. IL Soak a shilling package of Mackay's "Extract of Calves' Feet" in cold water for twenty minutes; strain off the water, and pour a breakfast-cupfol of boiling browning over it. This glaze suits beautifully, and is made easier and cheaper than the other. BROWNED FLOUER FOR THICKENING, Is simply flour spread out in a tin, and put in the oven, or before the fire, to brown, turning it occasionaUy, and keeping it in a jar for use.165 SAUCES. CBAB SAUCE Is made exactly as lobster sauce, which see. SHRIMP AND COCKLE SAUCE Is made in a similar manner. ANCHOVY SAUCE. Bone and mince, or pound some anchovies, and stir into parsley butter sauce. SALAD SAUCE. Bruise the hard boiled yolks of two eggs with a little cream, a tea-spoonful of made mustard, a little white and cayenne pepper, a little vinegar, and oil. Those who dis- like the salad oil should have instead a little butter melted. The French add raw eggs; but very few per- sons in this country like them. MUSTARD SAUCE. Rub a tea-spoonful of mustard with a table-spoonful of vinegar, and stir into melted butter. It is very nice with either broUed or boiled fresh herrings. PARSLEY FOR BUTTER SAUCE, After chopping it, put it into a sauce-pan of boiling water, with a bit of soda and little salt; boil one minute and strain it. VENISON OR MUTTON GRAVY. Take a pint of brown gravy sauce, a glass of sherry, a spoonful of vinegar, same of ketchup, and two pieces of loaf sugar; bring it through tbe boU, and thicken it.] G6 SAUcas. BROWN GKAVY SAUCE.—Without Meat. Melt a piece of butter in a saucepan, and shake in from a dredge box a little flour; add two sliced onions, two anchovies, a little ketchup, the same of mushroom, walnut, or lemon pickle, jjepper, salt, and mace sauce, to taste; simmer together for fifteen minutes. A table-spoonful of ale may be added if wished. WINE GRAVY SAUCE. Take a pint of strong brown well-seasoned gravy sauce, add to it three spoonfuls of port wine, two cloves, one small piece of loaf sugar; bring it through the boil, when it is ready. FISH SAUCE. Take one or two small haddocks or flounders; wash them very clean; put them into a saucepan with water to cover them, a blade of mace, a Uttle white pepper, and gait, a brown toasted crust, a tea-spoonful grated horse- radish, and a little ketchup ; boil half an hour, strain, and add butter and flour. BROTO BUTTER SAUCE. Chop up an ancho^^ and a table-spoonful of capers very fine, or pound them; put a quarter of a pound of fresh butter into a stew-pan, let it become quite brown; put the anchovy and capers into it, with a table-spoonful of tarregon vinegar, the same of Harvey's sauce, ajid a smaU quantity of brown gravy; simmer them for five minutes for broiled or boiled fish. SHALLOT GRAVY. Peel and mince a dozens hallots, and put them into a saucepan with three table-spoonfuls of vinegar, and six of good brown gravy.SAUCES. 167 SWEET SAUCE, FOR SAVOURY JOINTS. Melt three table-spoonfuls of red currant jelly in an enamelled sauce-pan ; when hot, add two spoonfuls of port wine, for roast mutton, hare, or venison. A NICE SAUCE FOR ROAST PIG. Boil a thick slice of bread with an onion, and a little salt, and water to cover it. Simmer till the onion is quite done, strain and press through a sieve; add to it a pint of the gravy from the roast pig ; the brains which have been boiled and chopped up, a little powdered sage, a bit of butter, lemon juice, mushroom ketchup, and a glass of port wine, make it quite hot. SAUCE ROBERT FOR STEAKS. Fry some onions and butter together, until quite brown, but do not burn them, shake from the dredge box half a table-spoonful of flour, brown the flour slightly in it, add a cup of brown gravy, and a little pepper and salt, simmer this gently for ten minutes ; take off the fat from it, and add a tea-spoonful of made mustard, a spoonful of vinegar, and the juice of half a lemon ; boil it all together on© minute j to be poured over beef-steaks. BROWN OYSTER SAUCE. Take a pint of good brown sauce, beard a quarter hundred of oysters, strain the juice, season with anchovy, cayenne, and lemon juice ; thicken it or not according to taste; bring it through the boil. When it is ready for use, brown oyster sauce may be made the same as white oyster sauce, by adding a little browning.SAUCES. 1G8 HAM FLAVOURING.—For vabious Purposes. Boil a knuckle of ham until all the goodness is ex- tracted, pick the meat from the bones, mince it, and simmer it in the gravy in which it was boiled with a few shallots, herbs, pepper, and a pint of good gravy, simmer gently an hoar, strain and keep it for use. It is a great improvement to most gravys. SAUCE FOR COLD FOWL OR GAME. Boil two eggs quite hard, rub them quite smooth in a morter with a shallot or young green onion, a table-spoon- ful of salad oil or melted butter, two of vinegar, and a tea-spoonful of mustard; mix very well together. YEGETABLES AND ROOTS. All vegetables should be used as soon after gathering as possible, and boiled in a great deal of water. CABBAGES. Cabbage must be well looked to in cleansing, on ac- count of slugs, with which it is often infested. The cabbage should be stripped of their outer leaves; cut in four across at the root end (but not divided), and laid in salt and water half an hour before boiling; let the water boil and then put in the cabbage, keeping it as whole as you can; put in a bit of soda and a little salt When the cabbage falls to the bottom of the pot it shotdd be drained immediately and served quite plain; or if young, pressed and served as spinage. It is very nice wth a butter sauce over it.169 VEGETABLES AND ROOTS. STEWED CABBAGE. Cut out the stem, and slice whatever cabbages you re- quire ; after washing them well, drain them and put them into a pan of boiled ■watei", with salt, and a very small quantity of carbonate of soda; boil for a quarter of an hour, drain and press the water well from it, chop it up, and put it into a saucepan, with a piece of butter, and a seasoning of white pepper; stir it gently over the fire until the butter is quite melted, and serve to roast lamb or cutlets. SAVOY CABBAGE. The leaves are all separated in cleansing them, and boiled in the same manner as stated above; strained, chopped up, and a bit of butter put amongst the leaves. GREENS Are very much used in winter, with corned-beef, tongues, hams, &c.; but they should be boiled by themselves in the same way as cabbages; the leaves are stripped from the stalks. When boiled with salt meat they spoil its colour > but as most people like them to have the flavour of the meat, after straining them, they should be allowed ten minutes in the pot along with it. They are dished either round the meat or in a vegetable dish. BRUSSELS SPROUTS. After washing them, throw them into boiling water with salt and soda; boil twenty minutes, and serve plain, or with butter sauce over them, with which they are de- lightful. They make a pretty garnish round a tongue or round of beef. Y170 VEGETABLES AND ROOTS. BRUSSELS SPROUTS.—Stewed. Wash the sprouts thoroughly; melt a good piece of fresh butter in a stew-pan, put in the stumps, season -with white pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg, also three table-spoonfuls of white stock or water, a little vinegar or lemon juice; simmer them until done, and dish them with fried sippets. CAULIFLOWERS.—Plain. Be sure they are fresh gathered; throw them into boil- ing water with a little salt, keeping a few of the green leaves round them. You must see that you have cut it at the stalk, so as to stand properly in the nish. Oold butter in little forms is put down, so that those who wish may use it. CAULIFLOWERS.—Dresi#i>. Take two cauliflowers, trim them by cutting away all the green leaves, boil them ten minutes in milk and water, lift them out, and cut the stalk of the best and whitest even, so that it may stand straight; place it in the centre of the dish, and the other (having broken it into sprays) neatly round it; pour a parsley butter sauce over them. CAULIFLOWERS .—Stewed. Break them in little branches and stew them in a little milk and water with butter and flour; some add a Uttle grated cheese. BROCCOLI Is cooked in everyway the same as cauUflower, and some- times it is served on a slice of toast dipped in the water in which it was boiled, with melted butter over it.VEGETABLES AND ROOTS. 171 FRENCH BEANS. String and cut them across; throw them into boiling ■water with salt, and a very small piece of soda; a few minutes will do them. Serve them either plain or with melted butter. FRENCH BEANS. Prepare them as pi-evious recipe; when well drained, put them into a stew-pan with a good piece of butter, a handful of parsley leaves chopped and parboiled, two young green onions, a little nutmeg, salt, and white pep- per, lemon juice, or vinegar ; heat them all up, and dish whenever the onions are done. BROAD BEANS WITH EGGS. Boil a dish of nice green beans, make a custard of eggs and milk, seasoned with pepper, salt, and nutmeg (if the flavour of nutmeg is not disliked); stir in a handful of chopped parboiled parsley, and pour over the beans in a corner dish. LEEKS Are mostly used in soup; but they are very nice, the most of the green part cut away, tied in bunches, boiled with bacon, and served round it. LEEKS WITH CREAM. Cut up a few leeks and wash them thoroughly, parboil them, drain the water from them, return them to the pan again, with a very little cream, a piece of butter, pepper, and salt; simmer them for a short time, and dish. PARSNIPS. Wash them well and boil them in plenty of water; when done, which you can tell by trying with a fork, scrape offVEGETABLES AND ROOTS. 172 the outer coat, and either mash them and serve them like mashed turnips, or scrape them into shavings and serve with melted butter over them. FRIED PARSNIPS. Parboil the parsnips, slice them rather thickly, season them with white pepper and salt, fry them a nice brown, and serve with meat. CARROT AND TURNIP. Wash and pare them; if young, slice or serve them, whole. They may be cut into dice together or separately, and stewed with a little butter and water, with pepper and salt, or mashed. A DRESSED DISH OF CARROT AND TURNIP. Slice and cut them into shapes with a cutter; boil and drain them; dish them in a corner dish and pour a tran- sparent white sauce over them. DRESSED CARROT AS A CORNER DISH. Take as many young carrots as required, scrape and boil them in salt and water; when tender, cut them so aa they will have the form of small sugar loaves, pour a nice sauce over them, nicely seasoned, and a handful of chopped parsley leaves. MASHED TURNIPS. Cut the turnips, four or six pieces each, boil them till tender, strain and press the water from them with a wooden spoon in a basin, press them through a coaree hair sieve or cullender, put them in a stew-pan, with a piece of butter, pepper and salt; stir them over the fireVEGETABLES AND ROOTS. 173 until nice and dry; a little cayenne, cream, and a small lump of sugar may be added, which is an improvement. The liquid must be all absoibed before dishing. SPINAGE. Pick it very clean, and wash it in several waters; put it in a saucepan that vnll just hold it, with a little salt, but no water, cover it close and shake the pan often. When it falls to the bottom, and the water boils up, pour it into a sieve to drain; press between two plates and cut it into shapes ; or press it into a small mould to be turned out. Save the green juice and bottle it for use; never butter it, but have cold butter at table; or, if preferred, it may be chopped up after it is boiled, with butter, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg, stirred over the fire until quite hot, and served with toasted sippets round it. SPINAGE DRESSED WITH CREAM. Boil and drain the spinage as previoiisly directed, put it into a clean saucepan with a j)iece of butter, half a tea- cupful of good thick cream, a seasoning of pepper, nutmeg, and a teaspoonful of sugar; stir over the fire for five minutes, and sei-\'e with sippets of bread or pastry leaves round the dish ; it may be dusted with flour, if wished, • to absorb the liquid. STEWED CUCUMBERS. Pare and slice a few cucumbers and onions, and add a little pepper and salt; roll a piece of butter in flour, and stew the whole twenty minutes (or until the onions are done) with a very little milk or water.VEGETABLES AITD ROOTS. 174 DRESSED CUCUMBERS.—A Corner Dish. Slice and fry tlie cucumbers in butter, until of a fine brown colour; melt a slice of butter in a stew-pan in half a teacupful of cream, add a handful of chopped parsley, a little vinegar, pepper, salt, sugar, a dust of flour, and the yolks of two eggs, stirred all together over the fire until thickened; pour over the fried cucumber, and serve with border round it. TOMATOES. Put the tomatoes into a dish and pour boiling water oq them; then drain off the water and peel them. If wanted as a stew, put them in a saucepan with bread-crumbs and butter, pepper and salt (no water should be added). Ten minutes on the fire will be sufficient to cook them; or they may be served whole, skinned, and sprinkled with a little pepper and salt. TOMATOES DRESSED AS A CORNER DISH. Pick out the stalk ends of six tomatoes; remove the seeds withoiit breaking the fruit; mince a few mushrooms with a little green parsley, two shallots, and pounded ham ; season with pepper, salt, and thyme, fry them all together for a few minutes; stir in the yolks of two eggs; fill the tomatoes with this mixture, melt a piece of butter in the stew-pan, place the tomatoes in it, and simmer very slowly ten minutes; dust them over with brown.bread crumbs, and dish them neatly in a circular form, in a corner dish, with brown gi-avy sauce in the centre. STEWED ONIONS. Put a bit of dripping or butter in a stew-pan, dust it over with flour; fry the onions (either small or large) a175 VEGETABLES AND ROOTS. beautiful rich brown, cover with a little gravy of any kind, and season with pepper and salt; if no gravy is at hand, a little butter will do. They are very nice with roast mutton. ROAST ONIONS. They are I'oasted with their skins on, and are served with roast potatoes. GLAZED ONIONS.—Foe Gaenishino. Take whatever quantity of small button onions is required to garnish the dish, put them into a saucepan with a piece of butter, a few small pieces of sugar, a little salt, and just as much brown stock as will keep them from burning; when they are done let the sauce be all dried up; roll the onions in it; let them be quite covered with the glaze. SPANISH ONIONS. Peel as many as you want, and cover them with milk; roll a piece of butter the size of an egg in flour, and add a little white pepper and salt. FEIED ONIONS. Peel and slice them, and fry them with dripping a nice brown. ASPARAGUS. Clean the asparagus and cut all of a length, tie them in little bundles, and boil twenty minutes; untie them and 4 serve on toast; dress the asparagus, with the tops outwards, all round; pour melted butter over. ASPARAGUS POINTS DRESSED AS PEASE. Cut the points in pieces about the thira of an inch; wash them very clean, and throw them into boiling water withVEGETABLES AND BOOTS. 176 carbonate of soda and salt; when nearly done, drain them and spread them on a cloth ; wipe and put them into a Btew-pan with a slice of butter; simmer them in the butter for five minutes; dredge in a little flour, and very little sugar and water; boil it in rapidly until it has become a thick glaze ; roll the asparagus pease in it, and serve as a garnish to veal or lamb cutlets. ARTICHOKES. Trim off a few of the outer leaves, and cut the stalk even; wash very clean, to free from sand, put them in when the water boils, and boil from twenty minutes to half an hour; seiwe with melted butter in a sauce-boat. JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES—Boiled. Pare and boil them like potatoes ; twenty minutes will do them; they must not be too soft; mash and serve like turnips, adding pepper, salt, and a little butter; or, seive them whole, with white sauce over them. They are cu* into the form of small sugar loaves, and are served as a comer dish, with butter sauce over them. JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES—Fried. First boil and drain them; brush them with yolk of egg, and roll them in fine bread-crumbs mixed with a little pepper and salt; fry them a beautiful brown. SEA KALE Is boiled and served as asi^aragus, with a white sauce. TURNIP TOPS. As greens are done.VEGETABLES AND BOOTS. 177 STEWED CELERY Prepare them by cutting off all the coarse outer leaves, and cut the celery in pieces about four inches; stew in a little water or stock of any kind, if you have it, with seasonings; if no stock, roll a piece of butter in flour, and stir in a httle cream or milk; stew till tender. GREEN BEANS. Scald them in hot water, take oflf the white skins, and boil the beans twenty minutes; drain and mash them, adding a little butter, with pejjper and salt: jDress them into a mould to turn out; or boil and serve quite plain. WINDSOR BEANS. Do them as French beans. HARICOT BEANS. Soak them over night, and boil until soft; press into a mould, with butter, pepper, and salt; or serve plain. PEASE—Young Green, to Boil. Put them into boiling water with a little salt; boil them quickly ten minutes, drain, and serve plain, or put a little butter amongst them; or, after straining them, return them to the fire, stir in a piece of butter, a little peppei-, I and a dust of flour. A few mint leaves are boiled with !gi-een pease, meant to prevent flatulency from eating 1 them. STEWED GREEN PEASE. Stew them with a sliced lettuce, onions, and a piece of 1 butter, pepper and salt; very little water is needed. z178 VEGETABLES AND ROOTS. ^ STKWED RED CABBAGE, BEET-ROOT, AND ONIONS. Slice and wash thoroughly a red cabbage, boil a beet- root, and slice a Spanish onion; peel and slice the beet^ root, and stew them altogether in a little stock or water, with a good piece of butter ; add a little vinegar, with pepper and salt; stew till tender. The onions and beet- root do very well by themselves without the cabbage. FRIED PARSLEY -For Garnishing. Wash and dry well some nice bunches of parsley, and put them into a Dutch oven before the fii-e to crisp; when crisp, fry them, and put on a sieve to drain. STEWED PARSLEY. Wash and pick a quantity of parsley, peel a few smaU onions, wash well a good many spinage leaves, and set them on to stew, with a piece of butter, and a little pepper and salt; cover close, and stew gently till done, (without water, the spinage yielding what is wanted) ; serve on a flat dish, with fried bacon and eggs, or liver and bacon. BOILED POTATOES—No. I. Wash the potatoes and peel them, putting them into cold water as they are done; place the largest ones at the bottom of the pot; put salt over them, and more than cover with cold water ; boil quickly, and when done, drain thoroughly and dry over the fire for a few minutes; cover with a cloth, (which keep for the purpose), aud put on the lid to steam until wanted. BOILED POTATOES.—No. II. Put the potatoes on to boil as above; after boiling tenVEGETABLES AND ROOTS. 179 minutes, pour the water from tliem; cover them again with boiling water and salt; pour and steam them when done; this takes away the earthy flavour, is a superior method, and is worth the trouble. FRIED POTATOES.—No. I. Boil and slice the potatoes, put some nice dripping in a frying-pan, and when it is hot dust a little flour over the potatoes and fry them. This is a good way of using up cold left potatoes. FRIED POTATOES.—No. II. Peel potatoes and cut them as thin aK possible; put some lard in your frying-pan and fry them; drain them in a sieve as they are done, and cover the bottom of the pan with only one row at a time; they may be dipped in butter and fried. MASHED POTATOES. Peel and boil potatoes; mash them with a potatoe beater till quite smooth; put in a bit of butter or good dripping, and a little salt; take two large forks and beat them light, fill your dish, and brown before the fire. If the potatoes are of a dry mealy quality, the forks will do to mash them without using the beater. POTATO BALLS. Make up mashed potatoes in the form of eggs, egg and bread-crumb them, and fry a nice brown. BROILED POTATOES. Peel and boil them, cut them in two, and broil them; serve with cold butter, or pour butter sauce over them.VEGETABLES AND ROOTS. 180 STEWED POTATOES. Pare and slice potatoes and onions; put them into a stew-pan that will just hold them; put a piece of drip- ping on the top, with pepper and salt, and very little water; cover close, and simmer very slowly till done. POTATO HASH. Peel and cut up potatoes as for potatoe soup; cut up a few leeks; season with pepper and salt; mix with a little oatmeal; add a Uttle water, and stew gently till done. POTATOES IN A MOULD. Press mashed potatoes in a mould without wetting it; turn out, and brown before the fire. POTATOES IN THEIR SKINS. Wash them very clean, taking out the specks; boil them in a good deal of water with salt; pour ofi" the water, and steam them by putting a clean cloth over them, and covering with the lid quite close. Serve them for supper in a salad bowl on a napkin. NEW POTATOES. When quite new, wash them clean, and rub them with a cloth or scrubbing brush, and salt; put them in boiling water, with salt, till tender. Pour and dry them in the usual way. They make a nice supper dish with melted butter over them. Early potatoes and new milk make a light supper dish. STEAMED POTATOES. Have a deep pan fitted with a steamer; fill youi- steamer with pared potatoes; strew salt over them.181 VEGETABLES AND ROOTS. When the water boils, place them over it, and cover them with a close fitting lid. They will be found very dry. VEGETABLE MARROW. Peel the marrow, and boil it in salt and water; cut it in two, and pick out the seeds and fibres ; slice it, and pour good melted butter over it; if very large cut the slices in pieces; they are very good dipped in egg and bread-crumbs, and fried; they are sometimes mashed as turnips, but are very watery. SWEET HERBS. Take marjoram, lemon thyme, sage, sweet basil, par- sley, and celery seeds; pick the leaves from the stalks and dry them in a cool oven; rub them to powder, sift, and bottle them for use; keep the refuse and stalks for soup; keep part of the basil and sage by themselves. Dry mint in the same way, and keep it separate also. MUSHROOM POWDER. Peel and wipe mushrooms; lay them on flat tins to dry, in a cool oven, until they will powder. Sift the powder, and put in bottles to keep for future use; keep the stalks for soups. BOILED MUSHROOMS. Peel and wipe them; do them on the gridiron; put a little butter on them, or peel and wipe them; lay them on buttered toasts, and do them before the fire. STEWED MUSHROOMS. Peel the mushrooms, and cut off the stems; stew them with a little water; lift them out when tender, and mince182 VEGETABLES AND HOOTS. them; add them to the gravy with salt and pepper; add a cupful of good cream or a piece of butter; simmer for five minutes. POTTED MUSHROOMS, rill preserve-jars with small flapped or button mush- rooms, after picking and wiping them. Season as you fill, with salt, a little Jamaica, black, and cayenne pepper; put a small piece of butter on the top; cover closely, and set them in a pot of boiling water till done. When cold, cover with boiling lard; tie paper over, and keep in a cool dry place. The skins and stalks from mushrooms should be kept for use. NETTLES AND DANDELIONS Are esteemed by some, and are said to be very whole- some ; they are dressed in small bundles, and served on toast, with melted butter over them. SALADS. Salads are composed of lettuce, garden and water cresses, inustard, radishes, the tender stalks of young celery and any other small salads that may be had; they must be freshly gathered and carefully washed with- out crashing them ; the water must be shaken from them by putting them in a cloth, and holding it by the four corners, or from a willow basket, which is better; slice them with a fruit knife; let it be dressed as near as pos- sible to its being used, as it looses its crispness very soon. Mix the salad with a fork and spoon on a large ashet as lightly as possible; have the salad dressing ready {see Store Sauces), some minced pickled beet-root, two hard- boiled eggs, and a little salt; put part of the dressing in183 VEGETABLES AND BOOTS. the salad bowl, shake in a handful of the salad, lifting it up with the fork; put part of the minced eggs over beet- root, and fill up the dish in this manner, with dressing poured on lightly without stirring until all is done; make it as pretty looking on the top as possible. DRESSED SALAD Is done in a glass dish—a trifle dish does very well; fill the dish nearly to the top with the salad ; adding the salad dressing as in previous recipe (for Salad Dressing see Salad Cream, Store Sauces); boil two eggs hai-d ; mince their yolks with the white of one egg very fine, and cut the white of the other into fancy shapes; garnish the top of the salad according to fancy with them, and pickled beet-root. LOBSTER SALAD. Choose a hen lobster ; boil it; pick out the meat and mince it, leaving a few pieces of the best parts of the great claws ; mix the minced meat with a salad mixture pretty highly seasoned with cayenne; fill a crystal salad dish pretty high in the centre; put a pretty wreath of fresh green parsley round the edge of the dish, and the red coral or spawn in bunches, beet-root and the whites of eggs cut into tasteful shapes; colour savoury jelly amber and pink; mince it, and shake it all over the top of the salad. It is a pretty ornamental dish. CUCUMBER SALAD. Pare a nice cucumber, begining to pare it from the thick end, not the stalk end, which would make it taste very bitter; slice also a small Spanish onion; moisten themVEGETABLES AND BOOTS. 184 with equal proportions of salad oil and tarragon vinegar, also equal proportions of pepper and salt. BEET-ROOT AND SPANISH ONION SALAD. Slice a nice Spanish onion, cut each slice in four pieces; boil a beet and slice it; ■put them into a jar; put an ounce of sifted carraway seeds over them; cover them with good vinegar, and in a week they will be fit to use as salad ; or, after slicing them, season them with chopped parsley, pepper, salt, and add a table-spoonful salad oil, and the same of vinegar. A SALAD FROM FRESH FRUIT. FUl a trifle dish with rasp or strawberries, sprinkle them in, filling the dish with sugar, red or white currants suit equally well, also sliced peaches, or nice juicy apples ; the sugar is sometimes stirred into sweet wine and poured gradually over it. PASTRY, PUDDINGS, TARTS, &c. PUFF PASTE.—No. L Weigh one pound of good firm butter, slightly powdered, and one pound of flour; place them on your marble slab or pastry board; divide the butter ; put the half of it to one side of the board, and mix the other half very fine amongst the flour with a knife (you must be very pai-ticular in doing this, by keeping the flour well amongst the butter). When well incorporated sprinkle cold water over it with a brush, still mixing it up with the knife. When you feel that you can put it together into a dough, aa in makingPASTRY, PUDDINGS, TARTS, ETC. 185 bread, knead it very lightly into a smooth ball; shake flour from a dredge box on the board, and over the paste, and with a small liglit pastry-roller press a little heavily on the end of the paste nearest you; roll it out away from you to the thickness of half an inch. Divide the butter that was laid aside into three parts ; lay one part all over the pastry in small pieces; flour over very slightly, and fold it in four. Continue doing this until you have all the butter in ; beat it slightly with the rolling-pia, and lay it in a cool jDlace for half an hour before using it. A large tea-spoonful of Mackay's German Yeast Powder may be mixed thoroughly amongst the flour; it helps to lighten the paste. PUFF PASTE.—No. II. Although real puff" paste is always made in the propor- tion of a pound of butter to a pound of flour, a very light paste can be made with a quarter pound less of butter, and if properly made will be found quite rich enough. Made as pi-evious recipe. PUFF PASTE.—Very Rich, Take a pound of good firm fresh butter, and a pound of flour; take a fourth part of the butter, mince it with a knife amongst the flour, in the same manner as Puff Paste No. I. Beat up the yolk of an egg, add to it the jmce of a lemon, a tea-cupful of cold water, and a salt-spoonful of salt; sprinkle the liquid over the flour in the usual way, mix- ing it up with a knife without cutting it. When it is all nicely mixed, knead it as lightly as possible, with cool Ji.ands, into a smooth ball; set iton ice, or in the coolest place 2 a186 PASTRY PUDDINGS, TARTS, ETC. you have ; in half an hour, roll it out, press the butter in a -cloth, to make it square, put it in the middle of the paste, fold the four corners of it over the butt-er, roll it out, turn it round, roll and fold it again, let it lie on the ice ten minutes more ; repeat this process again and again, when it is ready for baking. SHORT PASTE. Take half a pound of butter or aweet lard; if lard, a tea-spoonful of salt, and one pound of flour; i-ub the butter in the flour with the hands as cool and quickly as pos- sible; shower cold water over it with a brush, as in making pufi" paste, until it is of a firm consistency; knead it and roll out; fold it in four and beat it; let it re- main for half-an-hour in a cool place. When it is ready to bake for sweet pies or tarts, a little sugar may be added to it. SHORT PASTE.—Richer. Add to the above proportion the yolks of two eggs. CRISP SWEET TART PASTE. Take ten ounces of flour, five of butter, and two ounces of sugar; mix them all together with the hand in a basin, holding it before the fire; when well mixed, beat up the yolk of an egg; mix with as much water as will moisten the flour, &c., in the basin; put it together with the hands as quickly as possible; when it is ready to cover dishes, or fill tartlet or cheese cake pans, with preserves. SWEET CRISP PASTE. Take one pound of flour, one ounce of sifted loaf- sugar, melt two ounces of butter in a tea-cupful of boiling187 PASTRY, PUDDINGS, TARTS, ETC. cream, -work it well and roll it out; when the tarts are baked, glaze them with white of egg, and dust them with sifted sugar. CROQUANT PASTE.—French. Blanch half a pound of Jordan almonds, dry and pound them with a table-spoonful of orange flower water, and four ounces of sugar; put the paste into a small pan, and stir it over the fire until it has become dry; put it on a baking board, and add the yolks of three, and the white of one egg, four ounces of butter, and half a pound of flour ; knead this into a firm paste, and use it for tartlets, or roU it out very thin, and stamp it out with fancy cutters, and bake for dessert biscuits. EICH PASTE, FOR TARTLETS AND CHEESE CAKES. Beat to a snow six ounces of sifted loaf sugar, and eight of fresh butter; add four well beaten eggs, and a little grated lemon rhind and nutmeg; stir in flour sufficient to : make it into a nice flexible paste, not too stifi". FRENCH PASTE. Make a paste with milk and flour in a pan over the fire, • until it is so thick that it will not adhere to the pan; stir I a few eggs into it until it is cool enough to handle; make it I up into a smooth paste, and use it for dishes of small pastry. RICE PASTE, FOR SWEETS. Boil four ounces of ground rice in very little water; (drain the water from it, and dry it as well as you can; 1 pound it in a mortar, with an ounce of butter, and a well- l beaten egg; dust the board with flour, and roll it. It is 1 very nice for tartlets or small pastry.PASTRY, PUDDINGS, TARTS, ETC. 188 PUDDING PASTE. Paste for boiled puddings is made in the proportion of one half pound of suet, or fresh lard to one pound of flour. Mix up and moisten with as much boiling water or milk as will just do, (if you take too much liquid, you must take more flour, which spoils the composition). Knead it up as quickly as you can. Sometimes it is made with one half bread-crumbs, and one half flour, and makes a superior paste. PASTE FOR RAISED PIES. Boil six ounces of lard in a breakfast-cupful of boiling water, and pour it over one pound of flour ; mix in a little salt, and knead it up quickly, making it very stiff. Boil- ing milk may be used instead of water. SUET CRUST. Six ounces of suet to one pound of flour, made into a paste with cold water. TO COVER PIES. ' For meat pie roll out puff paste, No. I. or No. XL (which ever you choose), to the thickness of half an inch, and a little larger than the top of the pie; lift the dish on the paste and cut out the lid, keeping the knife in a slant- ing position, but quite close to the dish; fold it with the outside in, and lift it to the side. Beat up an egg, and brush over the edge of the dish with it, cut out the trim- mings of the paste to go round the edge of the dish; brush that over with the egg, and lay the cover neatly on. Make a nice edge with a knife, glaze over the top with the egg, cut out some ornaments, and put them on the top; makePASTRY, PUDDINGS, TARTS, ETC. 189 aa hole at the one end, to allow the gravy to be put in before pputting into the oven. All meat pies are covered in the ssame "way. Covering pies in a proper manner, like many other ^operations in the art of cookery, cannot be done at once bby a person who has not first carefully observed the pro- rgress of the operation under an expei'ienced hand. APPLE TART. Pare as many apples as you want, throwing them into ?cold water as you do them, to preserve the colour; cut >sach into eight pieces, and core them; fill your dish, isweetening them as you fill it; cover it with puff paste as I'tbove, and sift a little sugar over before putting it into ;bhe oven. Serve cream or a thin custard with it. A small )Diece of whole ginger or a few cloves are an improvement, when the flavour is not disliked ; a piece of orange rhind, land the seeds of the apples bruised, simmered sufficiently coDg to extract the flavour, is also a great improvement. PEAR TART. Pear is made in the same manner as apple tart wrate the rhind and squeeze in the juice of lemon. Apricot, grape, and other fruit tarts are made in the aame manner, and they may all be glazed over by ipreading over them, when done, white of egg, dusted Iihickly over with sugar, and immediately returned to the >^ven to crisp for a few minutes. GERMAN PASTE FOR TARTS. Take a pound of flour, half an ounce of mixed sweet rpice powder, and six ounces of sugar; mix them weU190 PASTRY, PUDDINGS, TARTS, ETC together; take half" a pound of fresh butter, rub it in thoroughly; add the yolks of two eggs, and make it up into a nice paste. GERMAN APPLE TAET. Take the whole, or half of the above proportions of German paste ; knead it in a round form, as in making a cake of shortbread; place a round cake hoop on a baking tin, with paper over it, put the paste into it, working up with the hand an edge about an inch and a half deep, as in making raised pies; pare the edges all even, and fill it with nice apple marmalade, in which a little spice powder, a piece of fresh butter, and the juice of a lemon has been stirred; bake in a moderate oven for half or three quarters of an hour ; put a covering of mirangue mixture over it, and return it to the oven to become crisp, if to be used cold ; chequer it all over the top with the mixture, before putting it into the oven to crisp, and fill the spaces with pink apple jelly. Serve on a napkin. SWISS APPLE TART. Make it of the same paste, and in the same manner as German apple tart. Cover it entirely with a round cake of paste, and bake it three quarters of an hour, and while hot, pour over it transparent sugar icing. APPLE CAKE. Make a tart in the same manner as Swiss apple tart, with short or puff paste; glaze it with yolk of egg, score it in diamonds, and dredge sifted sugar over it. The anoles may be mixed with currants and Sultana raisins.191 PA.STBY, PUDDINGS, TARTS, ETC. BLACK CURRANT TART. Pick some black currants and stew them with, apples; fill an open tartlet case with them and bake, when cold, cover with whipped cream; a deep tart dish may be filled with them and covered in the usual way. MINCE MEAT FOR CHRISTMAS PIE. Mince meat for Christmas pies should be made at least a month before using it. Mince separately one pound beef suet, one pound mus- catel i-aisins, stoned, one pound apjales, one half pound lemon peel; pi6k and wash one pound of currants, one pound minced beef; mix two ounces of Mackay's sweet spice powder with these ingredients, put into a stone jar, and moisten with brandy; rum or wine of any kind may be substituted for brandy. MINCE MEAT.—No. II. To one pound beef suet add one pound and a-half of currants, two pounds of apples, four ounces orange peel, three-quarters of a pound of sugar, a little ground cloves, nutmeg, ginger, and cinnamon; mix well, and moisten with brandy. MINCE MEAT—No. III. Grate the rhind of three lemons, peel off the white inner rhind which is very bitter, divide the lemon into liths and cut up each with small scissors, pick away the pips and scrape the pulp quite clean from the white skin, add it and the gi-ated rhind and juice to one pound stoned raisins, one pound suet, one half pound sugar, one pound apples, one pound currants, two ounces orange peel, two table- spoonfuls orange marmalade, an ounce of mixed spice powder, and a cupful of brandy.PASTRY, PUDDINGS, TAHTS, ETC. 192 CHRISTMAS PIE. Cover an asliet with nice puff jiaste, put a thick edging of paste round it, roll out the remainder of the paste, not too thin; fill the ashet with the mince meat, heaping it a little higher in the centre, take the small pastry wheel cutter and score the paste in stripes across the centre, so that when baked the mince will be seen through, lift it over the dish, trim the edges and notch them nicely with the back of a knife, glaze with beaten egg, and sifted sugar over; bake until the pastry is done in a good oven, three quarters of an hour should bake a good sized one. SMALL MINCE PIES. Cut out puff paste with a round cutter smaller than a cheese plate, put narrow bands of paste round them; fill, and cover them with open strapped cover in the very same manner as the large Christmas mince pie; cover a baking tin with paper and bake them for twenty minutes; white sugar icing is not appropriate for mince pies, they are much better baked in this manner; tin pattie pans leave a very disagreeable flavour of the tin, and make them very heavy. A MERANGUE. The mixture for merangue is composed of the whites of eggs and sugar, in the proportion of one pound of dry sifted sugar to ten or twelve whites of eggs, according to their size. Whip the whites to a solid snow, pour them when done over the sugar, stirring them lightly with a spoon. To build the merangue, reverse an ashet, and oil or greas the edge, fill a piping bag with the mixture, and make a wreath on the edge of the ashet; crisp it in a193 PASTRY, PUDDINGS, TARTS, ETC. cool oven, and continue making two or three mo5 e, each a size less than the other; they will come qaix/C easily off the dish; build them up on an ashet, fixing them with a little of the mixture, the smallest at the top; put it into the oven for a few minutes, and fill it with peaches, apri- eots, or any preserves you please; fill it up to the top with whipped cream. A CHARLOTTE RUSSE. Pour a little pink jelly into a jelly mould, with a lion on the top; line the sides of the mould with finger cakes, all of a length; fill up the centre with ItaUan cream, flavoured with a glass of brandy. A SPANISH CUSTARD. Stir till quite smooth three table-spoonfuls of arrow root, with a little cold milk, and pour it into an English quart of boiling milk, stirring it; sweeten to taste, and add half an ounce of dissolved isinglass, the yolks of two well beaten eggs, and a seasoning of bitter almonds; pour into a wetted mould, and when cold turn it out, and ornament it with sliced blanched almonds. VANILLA CUSTARD. Separate the yolks from the whites of eight eggs, beat the whites to a stifi" snow; boil an English pint of milk, sweeten it with four ounces of sugar, and season it with Vanilla; when boiling, lift the beaten white of egg in table-spoonfuls, and pxit it amongst the milk, let them set; turn them once, and lift them with a slice on a sieve to drain them; pour the milk over the well beaten yolks, thicken it over the fire; when cold, pour it into a trifle 2b194 PASTKY, PUDDINGS, TAKTS, ETC. glass, dish, and place tlie whites neatly over it; you may put a little red currant jelly in the centre of each. ALMOND CUSTARD. Take a lump of loaf-sugar weighing four or six ounces (if wished very sweet), half a dozen blanched bitter almonds, and an EngUsh pint of cream, or milk ; grate the rhind of a nice fresh lemon with the lump of sugar, and simmer them for fifteen minutes ; strain it, and stir untU nearly cold; add the yolks of four weU beaten eggs, and an ounce of pounded sweet almonds. Serve in a glass dish. LEMON CUSTARD. Beat the yolks of eight eggs until they are extremely light; pour a pint of boiling water over them, stirring them well; take four ounces of sugar in a piece, and gi-ate the rhinds of two lemons with it; add the juice, a ghiss of wine, half a glass of brandy, do not add these until the other ingredients are just boHing ; stir them in, and immediatelyremove from the fire. To be served in custax-d glasses. CUSTARDS IN GLASSES. A nice rich custard for glasses is made in the proportion of five or six eggs, according to size, and an English pint of milk; put a deep pan on the fii'e mth water, when boilin<^, set a jug in it containing the ingi-edients, viz.—The cream or milk, the yolks of the eggs, well beaten, sweetened and flavoured with almond, lemon, Vanilla, or any other iiavour that may be desired ; when cold» stir in a glass of brandy or sherry, as you please.PASTRY, PUCDINGS, TARTS, ETC. 195 PLAIN CUSTAEDS FOR GLASSES. Put a pint (English measure) of milk into a sauce-pan; take part of it to bruise a table-spoonful of rice flour, stii' it into the milk, and simmer it for a few minutes; sweeteii it witli a table-spoonful of sugar, and flour with any essence you choose; beat up four eggs, and pour the rice and milk over them; return all to the fire, and stir until thickened; fiU the glasses, and when cold, put a tea-spoonful of red currant jelly, or any preserve you choose, and heap whipped cream over the tojD; pink a little of the cream, and tip the white cream. A TURNED-OUT CUSTARD. Blanch and pound a dozen bitter almonds, put them into a sauce-pan, with a pint of milk, half an ounce of isinglass, and four ounces of loaf-sugar; stir until the isinglass is dissolved, and strain over the beaten yolks of four eggs; pour in a wetted mould, and when cold, turn it out. TIPSEY CAKE. Place a Pyramid sponge cake in a glass dish, make holes in the surface with a skewer; make negus with wine and brandy; put it over the cake in spoonfuls at a time that it may soak up the moistux-e; stick it all over with blanched almonds cu fc in slices; pour a nice custard over it, and whipped cream round it in the dish. Instead of a moulded cake, slices of cake may be spread with pre- serves, and finished in the same manner. PINE APPLE PUDDING. Pine apple pudding is made in the same manner as ginger pudding, substituting preserved pine apples for the ginger {see Ginger Pudding Eecipe).196 PASTRY, PUDDINGS, TARTS, ETC. LEMON PUDDING. Pare the rMnd from a nice fresh lemon as thin as pos- sible, simmer it until it will bear pounding in a mortar; pound it, and add half a pound of loaf-sugar, four old penny sponge cakes crumbled, and four eggs; stir it alto- gether, and add the juice of the lemon, and two table- spoonfuls of brandy; bake in a dish lined with puS paste. LEMON APPLE PUDDING. Take six table-spoonfuls of stewed apples, the grated rhind and juice of a lemon, two table-spoonfuls of moist sugar, two ounces of butter, and the yolks of four eggs; melt the butter and stir very well together; a glass of brandy may be added at pleasure, bake either in a deep or shallow dish lined with paste. A RICH LEMON PUDDING. Take half a pound of sugar, and gi-ate off the rhinds from three large lemons, squeeze the juice of the lemons over it to dissolve it, six ounces ratafia drops, one penny sponge cake, a pinch of salt, a little grated nutmeg, a large breakfast cupful of cream, the yolks of sis or eight good eggs, and the wliites of four, whisk up this mixture for a few minutes, and pour it into a baking dish covered with puff paste. Crumble some more ratafias over the the top before baking; it will take haLT an hour. AN ORANGE PUDDING. An orange pudding may be made the same as a lemon pudding. ANOTHER VICTORIA PUDDING. Mix very well together six ounces of flour, four ofPASTRY, PUDDIKGS, TARTS, ETC. 197 bread-crumbs, four of sugar, and a tea-spoonful of sweet spice, add eigbt ounces of minced marrow, two table- spoonfuls of apricot jam, four cbopped apples, a cup of cream, a glass of brandy, and five eggs, mix all together, and jjour into a buttered mould, steam or boil it two hours; for sauce see recipe for Sweet Pudding Sauces. EICE SOUFFLE. Take a pint and a half of milk or cream, and with part of it bruise four ounces of rice flour, and when the milk boils, stir the rice into it with two ounces of sugar, and boil ten minutes, stii'ring it all the time; add to it about two OLtnces of fresh butter and the grated rhind of a lemon, take it from the fire and add to it gradually the yolks of six eggs, a pinch of salt, and the whites beaten to a stiff snow, stir them in lightly, pour it immediately into a souffle pan in a moderate oven for half an hour ; the souffle dish is placed in an outer dish when sent to the table; when a souffle dish is not convenient, a round cake hoop suits very well, line it with stiff white paper, and butter it; they must be served immediately they are done SOUFFLES. Tapioca, Sago, Arrow-Eoot, or Corn-Plour, may be used for souffles made in the same manner as the flour of rice, and they may be flavoured to taste; the beaten white of egg is sometimes made in a soufile, baked in a round hoop and flavoured with vanilla or sweet herbs; the hoop must be lifted from it, and it is served carefully on a napkin.198 PASTRY, PUDDINGS, TARTS, ETC. CITRON SOUFFLE. Mince two ounces of citron rhind, and infuse it in a pint of cream ; add a table-spoonful of sugar, two ounces of fresh butter, and two spoonfuls of milk ; strain and re- turn to the fire with two ounces of potato flour, bruise vvith a little milk ; add the well beaten yolks of the eggs, and the whites beaten to a snow; bake as previously directed. Souffles may be mixed with apricot or peach jam, and may be iced by placing the dish in a pail amongst ice and salt. A NUT PUDDING. Take half a pound of dried Barcelonas; blanch them, - and steep them a night in cold water; dry them in a cloth and mince them ; add to them four ounces of grated bread, four ounces of chopped maiTOw, or minced mutton suet, four ounces of sugar, a breakfast-cup and a half of hot milk or cream, the yolks of four and whites of two eggs, flavoured with grated nutmeg; add a table-spoonful of orange marmalade ; bake it in a dish lined or not with puir paste. Fresh hazel nuts or filberts suit equally well. POTATO PUDDING. Take six table-spoonfuls of nice mashed potatoes, a table-spoonful of sugar, ditto of orange marmalade, t^'o ounces of butter, and four eggs; pour it into a buttered mould, and bake for half an hour; turn it out, and sift sugar over it, or bake it in a pie-dish. CHERRY TART. Take the stalks from the cherries and wipe them with a clean cloth, fill the dish, sweetening with crushed loaf-199 PASTRY, PUDDINGS, TARTS, ETC. sugar; squeeze the juice of a small lemon over them, which helps to prevent the deleterious effects of stone-fruit pies. Cover with puff paste, and bake ; whisk the whites of two eggs to a snow, and spread it over the tart when baked; fill a paper swirl, and make a wreath roimd the edge with the white of the egg ; sift white sugar thickly- over the top, and put it again in the oven to get crisp. Tou may brown or keep it white; the latter looks prettiest. DAMSON OR PLUM TART Is made in the same way as the cherry, but requires ^nore sugar. RHUBARB TART. When the rhubarb is young or forced, it does not require peeling. Cut it in pieces and fill your tart, making it rather sweet j cover with a pufi" paste crust. GOOSEBERRY TART. Picls as many gooseberries (befoi'e they begin to ripen) as will fill your dish, sweeten them to taste, cover with pufi" paste, and serve good cream or custard with it. As a gooseberry tart is used cold, cream is best. MIXED FRUIT TARTS. The gleanings of the bushes are generally made into fruit pies, picked and done as the other fruit tarts. APPLE DUMPLING OR PUDDING. Mince as many apples as you want; cover a pudding bowl with pudding paste (see Pudding Paste), or roll out the paste, fill in the apples, and sweeten to taste; tie it up and boil three hours; be sure the water boils when you put the pudding into it.PASTRY, PUDDINGS, TAKTS, ETC. 200 Damson, Cherry, Gooseberry, Red Currant, Rhu- barb, or any other fruit pudding is served the same way. ROLL PUDDING. Roll out pudding paste half an inch thick, spread pre- serves all over it, and roll it up; wring a pudding cloth out of boiling water; flour it, and roll it round the pud- ding, tying it at the ends, and put it into boiling water. If a large one it will take three hours. SMALL APPLE PUDDINGS. Pare and core the apples, putting them into cold water as you do them; wipe them dry, and fill them with sugar and a little sweet spice; roll out pudding paste, and cut it in pieces large enough to cover the apples; tie them up tight in cloths, and plump into boiling water. An hour will do them. SMALL APPLE PUDDINGS.—Baked. Peel and core the apples; fill them with sugar, and wrap them in puff-paste, rolled thin; glaze with beat egg^ and ornament a little with the point of a pen-knife ; bake them. They take nearly an hour to do; serve on a napkia, and dust a little sugar over them; to be eaten with cream or thin custard. SNOWBALLS. Pare and core a few apples; fill them with sugar, and cover them with boiled rice ; tie them tightly up, and boil half an hour. Serve with raspberry or strawberry preserves and cream.PASTRY, PUDDINGS, TARTS, ETC. 201 DISH OF APPLES AND EICE. Boil rice in milk and water, w^itli a little sugar; drain it and dry it a little. Make a border round the ashet, spread a little over the dish; place preserved apples neatly in the centre, and pour a little of the syrup over them. Beat up the white of an egg to a snow, colour it with cochineal a pale pink, and ornament the rice with it. APPLE PUFFS. Roll out puff paste to the thickness of a quarter of an inch, and cut it out with a round cutter the size of a common tea-biscuit; put in a spoonful of apple marmalade; wet the edges and double it over; glaze with egg, sift sugar over, and bake. OPEN TART OR TARTLET. Egg a flat baking-ashet, cover it with puff paste, egg the edge, and put an edging of paste all round it; glaze with egg, and ornament with pastry leaves and roses; sift a little sugar over; fill it with any preserve you please; (if with apples or green fruit, they must be stewed). Put straps of pastry across, or an ornamental top of any kind, according to your fancy; when cold, switched cream looks pretty put over them, without any other ornament. They are sometimes dusted with pink sugar. RASPBERRY TART AND CREAM. Make a tartlet as above, fill with raspberry jam, without putting pastry over the frait, and place it in the oven; mix the yolks of two eggs with a cupful of cream and a little sugar, and pour it over the preserves when they are nearly done, and bake until set. 2 cPASTRY, PUDDINGS, TARTS, ETC. 202 ORANGE TARTLETS. Cover and oruameut the edge of anashet as above; fill with orange marroalade; strap it across, and bake. Grate fresh cocoa nut all over when cold. PRESERVED APRICOT TART. Make a case on an ashet as above, and bake it; fill it with preserved apricots, and put leaves of pastry, orna- mented with sugar icing, on the top. They make a very nice tart or pudding. APPLE SOUFFLE. Put a deep border of apple marmalade round an ashet; separate the yolks and whites of six eggs; make a custard with a table-spoonful of sugar, a cup of cream, and the yolks of the eggs, well beat up, and pour it into the centre of the dish. Beat up the whites of the eggs to a strong froth, and put them on the top of the custard; sweeten and flavour with a few drops of essence of cloves; put it in the oven to crisp, but keep it white. FINE APPLE PUDDING. Butter a pie dish and sprinkle fine bread-crumbs all over it; peel and slice good baking apples, and place them in layers in the pie-dish, with bread-crumbs, a little minced suet, and small pieces of butter, between each layer; also, sprinkle sugar as you make it, and a little grated lemon rhind. Beat up three eggs with a cupful of milk and a spoonful of flour, and pour it over the dish; bake it a nice brown, turn it out, and grate loaf-sugar over it. BAKEWELL PUDDING. Beat up three eggs with three ounces of sugar; when wellPASTRY, PUDDINGS, TARTS, ETC. 203 beaten, melt three ounces of fresli butter, and pour it an them, stirring well "together ; line a pudding-dish with pufF paste; lay raspberry, stewed apples, or any preserve you please in the bottom; bake in a quick oven; sift susar over it when done. BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING.—No. I. Grate four ounces of bread-crumbs, and put into a sauce- pan with an English pint of milk, three ounces of loaf-sugar, and three ounces of fresh butter j stir all over the fire until they boil; add two eggs well beaten, and a glass of sherry, with a little grated nutmeg and lemon peel; half an hour will bake it; a sweet shai-p sauce served with it. BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING.—No. II. Cut stale light bread into thin slices without the crusts, and butter them; clean a few currants, stone a few raisins cutting them in two; make a thin custard with eggs and milk. Butter a pudding-dish, and cover it with one row of the buttered bread; strew in a few currants and raisins, and a little sugar; pour over a little of the custard, (which should be seasoned with grated nutmeg, sugar, and a glass of brandy or rum), and fill up the dish in this manner, pouring the rest of the custard over the top. Let it stand an hour; bake and turn it out; grate sugar all over. FRENCH SOUFFLE—Fruit. Cover an ashet with light puff-paste, making a pretty deep edge; bake it, aud ornament the edge with a wreath of icing,.while hot; fill it with nicely stewed apples; when quite cold, put a wall round the edge of the apples with preserved strawberries. Cover the apples with a thick boiled204 PASTEY, PUDDINGS, TARTS, ETC. custard, made with tlie yolks of six eggs poured in when cold; whisk up the whites of the eggs to a snow, and pour over all except the border, and put into the oven to brown. POTATO SOUFFLE. Roast a dozen potatoes in their skins; peel, and rub them through a coarse wire sieve; separate the yolks and whites of six eggs, pour over the yolks a pint of boiling cream, flavoured with the grated rind and juice of a lemon; beat up the whites to a snow, and mix gently all together; put in the oven to rise, and serve immediately. GERMAN PUDDING. Take three quarters of a pound of nice mashed potatoes, two ounces of bitter and sweet almonds blanched, dried, and powdered, (or ground almonds, which can be got at the confectioners), the juice and rhind of one small lemon, four ounces of sugar, the yolks and whites of six eggs beaten separately. Mix all well together, putting in the whites last. Butter a mould well, dust it over with fine bread-crumbs and pour in the mixture; tie it close, put it instantly into a pan of boiling water; be sure the water does not touch it. Steam two hours. The sauce is melted red currant jelly, with a glass of port, sweetened, and served quite hot. ORANGE PUDDING. Stir a cupful of milk among two table-spoonfuls of flour, and four ounces of fresh butter; put it on the fii-e, and stii- until it boils. "When cold, add three beaten eggs, two ounces of sugar, and four table-spoonfuls of orange cnip marmalade; then line a pudding-dish with puff paste, and bake it.PASTRY, PUDDINGS, TARTS, ETC. 205 WELSH PUDDINGS. Melt half a pound of fresh butter without water, and gradually add it to the beaten yolks of eight eggs, and the whites of four; sweeten with white sugar, and season with lemon. Bake it in a dish with a pastry border round it> and grate sugar over when done. ALMOND PUDDING. Blanch four ounces of bitter and sweet almonds, dry and pound them, mix them with four ounces of sugar, one glass of brandy, four ounces of butter melted, and four penny sponge cakes. Beat all well together, and mix in six eggs well whipped. Bake with a puff paste boi'der. COLLEGE PUDDINGS. Beat six yolks and three whites of eggs, and make them into a smooth batter, with two large spoonfuls of flour, a little mixed sweet spice and sugar to taste, four ounces of suet, four ounces of cleaned currants, and, if liked, a little minced orange peel. Boll them up in the form of an egg, and fry them. LEMON DUMPLINGS. Grate the rhind of a large lemon, cut the lemon in two, and scrape out the pulp; grate an acid apple, take half a pound of bread-crumbs, a quarter pound of suet minced very fine, a quarter pound of sugar, and a table-spoonful of flour; mix all very well together. Beat up three eggs, and add them. Make up the mass in little dumplings tie them in cloths, and plump them into a pan of boiling water; twenty minutes will do them. Served with wine sauce poured over them.20G PASTRY, PUDDINGS, TARTS, ETC. NORTHUMBERLAND PUDDINGS. Stir flour into boiling mUk until it is a thick batter, sweeten it, boil a few minutes, and pour it into a basin. When quite cold and firm, stir into it four ounces of fresh butter, melted, four ounces of currants, a little candied orange peel minced, a little brandy and spice, and three eggs well beaten, put into buttered tea-cups and bake; fifteen minutes^ will be enough; turn out and pour wine sauce over. CASTLE PUDDINGS. Take two ounces of butter, and the some of sifted loaf- sugar beaten to a cream; beat two eggs, and mix in with a few drops of essence of lemon, and a few carraway seeds; bake in cups half the size of an ordmary tea-cup, (they are to be had for the purpose); turn out and serve wine sauce over them. VERMICELLI PUDDING. Boil three ounces of vermicelli in about a pint and a half of mUk ten minutes, with a stick of cinnamon; and a bit of lemon peel; take out the cinnamon, and peel when cold; stir in the beat yolks of four, and the whites of two eggs, and a small glass of brandy; bake half an hour, and sift sugar over it. GROUND RICE PUDDING. Wash half a pound of ground rice, boil it slowly a few minutes, pour off the water, and add one pint and a half of new milk, three ounces of sugar, a few drops of lemon or almond flavour, a glass of rum or brandy, three beat eggs, and bake.207 PASTRY, PUDDINGS, TARTS, ETC. BOILED MACAEONI PUDDING—No. I. Wash, three ounces of macaroni and boil it in an English quart of milk; pour it out into a basin to cool, beat up three eggs, two spoonfuls of sugar, and a little seasoning. Mix them, butter a mould, pour in the mixture, and boil or steam an hour; turn out, and serve with wine sauce. EICH MACARONI PUDDING—No. II. Wash four ounces of macaroni, boil it>till tender in a pint of new milk, with a laurel leaf, a stalk of cinnamon, a bit of lemon peel, and two ounces of sugar; take out the seasonings, and stir in four ounces of fresh butter. When cold, stir in four well beaten eggs, two cups of cream, a little nutmeg, and brandy; bake it. PLAIN MACARONI PUDDING.—No. IIL Wash three ounces of macaroni and boil it slowly in two English pints of milk, with a bit of cinnamon, a bay leaf, and two spoonfuls of sugar; simmer slowly till ten- der; pour it into a pudding-dish, take out the seasonings, and stir in three or four well beaten eggs, and bake haLf- an-hour. Serve cream or good milk with it. PLAIN EICE PUDDING. Make it exactly as plain macaroni, and serve it in the same manner. RICE AND APPLE PUDDING. Wash half a pound of rice, and simmer it in milk till soft, with four ounces of sugar. Meantime, mince one pound of apples, and beat up four eggs, leaving out half the whites; stir the eggs and the apples well amongst the rice, season with anything you like, and bake. Beat the208 PASTRY, PUDDINGS, TARTS, ETC. wLites left out to a suow, and when the pudding Ls done and nicely browned, spread them over it; return it to the oven ti/i crisp, sift a little sugar over, and serve cream with it. These ingredients make a very nice dish with- out ecrgs. PLAIN BREAD PUDDING. Pour boiling milk over one or two slices of bread, (or you may grate them); let them stand half an hour, add two eggs, a little seasoning, and bake. Serve milk with it. RICH PLUM PUDDING—No. I. Take stoned raisins, currants, and apples; of each half a poimd, two ounces of orange peel (if liked), half a pound of beef suet, six eggs well beaten, a quarter pound of flour, the same of bread-crumbs, sugar, and two glasses of brandy; mix them up and let them stand all night and next day, till within three hours before wanted. Tie in a cloth or buttered mould, and put on with boiling water; boil three hours. Turn out, and serve with brandy sauce. PLUM PUDDING—No. II. Take a quarter pound of mashed potatoes, a quarter pound of grated carrots, the same of bread-crumbs, and flour, half a pound of suet, half a pound of currants, the same of sultana raisins, one tea-spoonful of sweet spice, a glass of rum, two eggs, and a tea-spoonful of soda powder; mix all together, and if too dry, add milk to moisten it Boil in a cloth or buttered mould. PLAIN PLUM PUDDING OR DUMPLING—No. IIL Take one pound of flour, one pound of currants, half an ounce of mixed sweet spice, half a pound of suet, half a209 PASTRY, PUDDINGS, TARTS, ETC. pound of Valencia raisins stoned, moistened with a little boiling milk. Mix them and boil in a cloth, MARROW PUDDING. For a large pudding, take four ounces of marrow or finely minced mutton suet, the same of sugar and cleaned currants, with a few sultana raisins, eight ounces of grated bread, one glass of rum, a little sweet spice, and six eggs well beaten. Stir all well together and fill the dish nearly full of boiling milkj mix it all up, and bake. Two glasses brandy, two ounces loaf-sugar, with one tea-cupful boiling milk, and a little grated nutmeg, is the best sauce for it; serve in a sauceboat ITALIAN PUDDING. Half fill a pudding-dish with nice green stewed apples, grate four or six ounces of bread, add two ounces of sugar, and pour two breakfast-cups of boiling cream over it. Cover up and let stand half an hour. Beat up four eggs very light, stir amongst the bread, and grate in a little nutmeg; pour it over the apples, and bake. Good cream served with it. GTATEFUL PUDDING. Take four ounces of grated bread, four ounces of flour, two ounces of sugar, four ounces of sultana raisins, and three or four eggs; mix the bread-crumbs and flour, and pour an English pint of boiling milk over them. Mix in the other ingredients, and boil in a buttered mould three hours. Sift sugar over when done; serve sweet sauce. FRUIT PUDDING. Butter a pudding-bowl, put about a tea- cupful of straw- berry or raspberry jam in it, and pour over a batter made 2d210 PASTRY, PUDDINGS, TARTS, ETC. with a tea-cupful of flour, a pint of milk, a Utile sugar, and two beaten eggs. Boil half an hour; turn out, vrhen the preserve will run all over it. BOILED LEMON PUDDING. Grate four ounces of bread-crumbs, and mix with them four ounces of flour, four ounces of sugar, the grated rhind and juice of one lemon, and ijour over them an English pint of boiled new milk hot; cover up, and let stand half an hour; beat up two eggs, and add; put a tea-cup reversed into a good sized pudding-bowl weU buttered; pour the mixture aU round and over the cup; let the bowl be full to the top; boil it two hours, but see that the water does not touch it. When done turn out carefuUy, remove the cup, and fill up the space with lemon sauce. FIG PUDDING. Mix half a pound of flour, with four ounces of sugar and one pound of minced beef suet, a Uttle grated nutmeg, the juice of a lemon, four eggs, a glass of brandy, rum, or wine, and thi-ee quarters of a pound of nice juicy figs sliced and cut in small pieces. IMix weU, and boU four hours. Serve with wine sauce. Half this quantity will mal^e a moderate sized pudding. CUSTARD PUDDING.—No. I. Mix an EngUsh pint of cream with the same quantity of new milk, and pour into a basin over two table-spoon- fuls of corn-flour; put in gi^adually, breaking it very smooth; add four- ounces of white sugar, and stir it over: the fire until it is thick; then pour it into a pudding-dish ..ver six well beaten eggs, and bake it. Season with lemoai or almond flavour.PASTRY, PUDDINGS, TARTS, ETC 211 CUSTAED PUDDING—No. IL Beat up ten eggs, leaving out two whites; boil an English, quart of rich new milk with four ounces of loaf- sugar ; pour it boiling over the eggs, whisking them all the time ; flavour with lemon or almond essence, and bake until set. PLAIN CUSTARD PUDDING—No. III. Take two large spoonfuls of corn-flour, with two of moist sugar J stir in gradually an English quart of milk; stir it over the fire until it thickens; beat two eggs and add, also a little essence of lemon, (a small piece of but- ter stirred in is an improvement, but it is very good without it). Mix all up, and bake. Cream or good milk is served with it, and preserves are generally put down. BOILED CUSTARD PUDDING. Mix by degrees a large spoonful of corn or common flour, two ounces of sugar, and one English pint of milk; boil it ten minutes, stirring it all the time; add the yolks of five eggs, and a little ground cinnamon. Pour into a buttered mould that will exactly hold it; tie a cloth over it; and boil an hour. Be sure that the water does not get in; serve sweet sauce or melted currant jelly. GINGER PUDDING. Boil a pint of cream with a little sugar, and pour it hot over half a pound of sponge cakes in a basin; cover it when the cream is soaked up; add the yolks and whites of eight eggs, beat up with two ounces of preserved gin- ger, and a little of the syrup; cut in small pieces; steam it in a buttered basin an hour; serve with wine sauce.PASTRY, PUDDINGS, TARTS, ETC. 212 TAPIOCA PUDDING. Soak and wash tljree ounces tapioca j boil it in a quart of milk until clear; beat up three or four eggs with three ounces of sugar, and stir into the tapioca; add a little essence of whatever you like, and bake. Serve with either cream or milk. BAKED SAGO PUDDING. Soak four ounces of sago in cold water twenty minutes; pour oflf the water, and stir the sago by degrees into a pint and a half of boiling milk; let it boil ten minutes; beat two eggs well and mix amongst the sago, with sugar and a little seasoning; bake an hour in a moderate oven- BOILED SAGO PUDDING. Boil two ounces of sago in a pint and a half of milk ten minutes; season it with what you like, and pour it over four sponge biscuits, or a similar quantity of bread- crumbs, beat up four eggs, with a little sugar and white wine; mix together, and pour into a buttered basin, and steam one hour. CHILDREN'S PUDDING. Mix three quarters of a pound of flour with half a pound of suet, four ounces of treacle, and half a pound of currants, mix about half a tea-spoonful of baking powder amongst the flour; heat the treacle and milk together, and pour over the other ingredients; boil in a cloth two hours, taking care that it is weU covered with the water, which must be kept boiling when put in. SWISS PUDDING. Have a good quantity of fine stale gi-ated bread-crambs213 PASTRY, PUDDINGS, TAKTS, ETC. and apples minced fine; butter a pudding-dist, sift the crumbs over the dish through a dredge box or fine hair sieve, and strew in a layer of the minced apples and sugar; crumbs again, with apples and sugar, till the dish is full. Melt four ounces of fresh butter, and pour it all over the top; bake an hour. FEIARS' PUDDING. Toast two slices of bread, and cut oS the crust; beat up one egg, stir in a spoonful of sugar, a cup of boiling milk, and a little grated nutmeg; cut each slice in four; cover them with this mixture, and let them soak it up. It must stand two hours. Fry in nice lard, until brown. Pour a wine sauce over them in a flat dish, EXETER PUDDING. Split up small tea-buns, plain cookies, or sponge cake, and put raspberry jam inside; place them in a dish and pour hot lemonade (to make which see Recipe) over them. When quite cold, switch a little good cream sweetened and flavoured with lemon over them. ESSEX PUDDING. Beat three ounces of butter, and the same quantity of sugar, to a cream; add three eggs, and three ounces of flour. Butter a mould well, put in a little of the mixture, then a layer of strawberry jam, filling the mould with each alternately till full. Two hours will boil it; or it may be baked; serve with white wine sauce. PLAIN CABINET PUDDING.—No. I. Butter a pudding mould, stick large stoned raisins all over, line it with thin slices of tea-buns or cookies, (if214 PASTRY, PUDDINGS, TAKTS, ETC. stale they are all the better), and cover with rasp or strawberry jam; fill the mould in this manner:—Pour some boiling milk over a few eggs, stir it well, and pour over ; allow it to soak a few hours before boiling ; cover close, and steam two hours. With this pudding cream is delicious. CABINET PUDDING—No. II. Btitter a mould and line it with very thin slices of sponge cake, put in a layer of raspberry preserve, and then a layer of the sliced cake, filling up the mould in this manner. Make a custard with three eggs, and a break- fast-cup of cream or milk, and pour that over the mould, with a glass of wine in it. Let stand to soak two houi-s, coTer it close, and steam one hour; be sure that the water does not touch it; serve with wine or brandy sauce. / CABINET PUDDING.—No. III. Butter a mould and stick large stoned raisins all over it, grate two ounces of bread, beat up three eggs, and mix these with two spoonfuls of sugar, and a Uttle seasoning. Boil a breakfast-cupful of milk, pour it over, and mix to- gether very well. Pour into the mould, and steam it an hour and a-half; turn out carefully, and serve with wine sauce. With puddings such as these, good cream is some-" times used. A LIGHT BOILED PUDDING. Pour a pint of boiling milk over four ounces of bread- crumbs, stir in a table-spoonful of sugar, an ouPce of butter, three eggs well beaten, and a glass of sherry; pour into a buttered mould, with a littie orange poel «tnck over it.PASTRY, PUDDINGS, TARTS, ETC. 215 FRENCH APPLE PUDDING. Bake some apples with sugar until tliey become a mar- malade, aud put them into a pie-dish already lined with paste; cover them with a cup of milk poured boiling over two beaten eggs and a bit of butter; flavour with bitter almond essence; bake an hour. ANOTHER FRENCH PUDDING. Take half a pound of flour, half a pound of minced suet, half a pound of currants, half a pint of milk, and a quarter pound of treacle; mix well, and boil in a basin three hours. PRESERVE AND CUSTARD PUDDING. Put preserves at the bottom of a pudding-dish, and grated bread over that three quarters of an inch deep ; boil an English quart of milk, and pour it over four beat eggs sweetened ; pour this gently or ladle it over the dish, and bake twenty minutes. RATAFIA PUDDING. Boil a quart of cream with half a pound of sponge cake ■''two minutes; mix in a glass of sherry, a few minced almonds, a little sugar, the yolks of four eggs, and one ounce ratafia drops; flavour with essence of bitter almonds; mix together very well, and bake half an hour. When done grate sugar over; serve with sweet wine sauce. WAFER PUDDING. Beat the yolks of four eggs very light with two ounces of sifted loaf-sugar, beat to a cream two ounces of fresh butter, mix all together with a little milk, and the whites of the eggs whipped to a snow; bake in patty pans; dish piled on a napkin; sift sugar over.216 PASTRY, PUDDINGS, TAETS, ETC. APPLE CHARLOTTE. Butter a pudding-mould, cover it with fine bread-crumbs, fill it up with stewed apples mixed with a beat egg and the rhind of a lemon grated; cover over the top with crumbs and bake. CHESTER PUDDING. Melt two ounces of butter, add an ounce of ground almonds, four ounces of sifted loaf-sugar, the yolks of four eggs, and the rhind and juice of one lemon. Stir over the fire constantly till quite hot, put it in a dish lined with pastry, and bake it one hour. Beat up the whites to a snow, and when the pudding is done pub them on the top, flavoured with a few drops of lemon, and sweetened a little; keep it in the oven to set and slightly brown. COCOA NUT PUDDING. Beat till quite light a quarter a pound of butter, and the same of sugar, add a cocoa nut grated; beat six eggs and mix them by degrees with an EngUsh piat of cream and milk mixed. Mix all well together, and bake. CHOCOLATE PUDDING. Scrape very fine two ounces of chocolate, and put it on to boil with a tea-spoonful mixed spice, and a quart of milk; bruise the lumps with a spoon to make it qxiite smooth, and add two ounces of sugar. When cold stir in six beaten eggs, and bake, to be eaten cold. MARLBOROUGH PUDDING. Slice a skia of orange peel and put in a dish, add four ounces of butter, four ounces of sugar, and the yolks of four eggs beaten ; stir them well, but do not let them come to the boil; pour into the mould, and bake till it is solid.217 PASTEY, PUDDINGS, TAKTS, ETC. SOUFFLE PUDDING.—Baked. Pour a little boiling milk over six rusks, and let them soak for a little; beat tbe yolks of three eggs with a little sugar, grate in a little lemon i-hind, and beat up the rusks quite smooth; mix all together. Whip the whites of the eggs to a snow, stir them in and bake immediatelyrj twenty minutes will bake it. SOUFFLE PUDDING—Boiled. Stir half a pint of cold milk among three table spoonfuls of flour, make it quite smooth; add four ounces of sifted sugar, two of butter, stir together over the fu-e till quite thick. Mix the yolks of six eggs with the butter; whip the whites and stir in. Steam it one hour; pour apricot jam over it when tui'ned out. CHESHIRE PUDDING. Mix two table-spoonfuls of flour with the yolks of three eggs, and a piut of cream; stir it over the fire till it thickens; sweeten and flavour to taste; pour it into a dish and bake it; when done sift sugar over it. VICTORIA PUDDING. Pour a pint of boiling milk over two penny French rolls, and cover up to soak; break then into a pulp, and add an ounce of ground almonds, a little sugar, a glass of brandy, the yolks of three eggs well beaten. Butter a mould, and put stripes of citron and raisins all over it; pour in the mixture, and boil it two hours. Serve with wine sauce. PRINCE OF WALES PUDDING. Mix with six ounces of flour two large chopped apples, 2 EPASTRY, PUDDINGS, TAKTS, ETC. 218 a quarter of a pound of suet, the same quantity of currantB, three beaten eggs, a little sugar, and grated nutmeg; boil it two hours; pour wine sauce over. YEOMANRY PUDDING. Take three ounces of sugar, three of butter, and three eggs; mix all together, and bake in a dish Uned with pastry. Put apricot or other jam in the bottom. PEINCE ALBERT'S PUDDING. Beat four ounces of fresh butter, with four ounces of fine sugar to a snow, four ounces of corn flour, or arrow root, and four ounces of picked sultana raisins, six eggs beaten, and flavoiired with a few drops of vanUla, lemon, or almond essence, and a glass of brandy. Bake in a buttered mould three hours; serve with wine sauce. SPANISH PUFFS. Put a breakfast-cup of mHk and a piece of butter in a pan, and bring it a-boU, stii' in flour until as stiff as dough, then take it off the fire and mix it graduaUy with the yolks of three eggs; knead it together, cut it in pieces smaller than an egg, roll them round, and fry in lard; sift sugar over, and serve on a napkin. You may, before frying, open them at one end, and insert a tea^poonful of jam, and close together. PRUSSIAN PUFFS. Make pan-cake batter, put in some minced orange peel, and bake in buttered cups; serve with wine sauce.219 PASTRY, PUDDINGS, TARTS, ETC. LIGHT GERMAN PUFFS. Melt three ounce of butter in one pint of cream, and let it stand till nearly cold. Mix it up with four ounces of flour, two of sugar, four yolks and two wMtes of eggs; flavour with a few drops of orange-flower water. Butter some little cups and bake; serve with sherry negus. FRENCH PLUM PUDDING. Stone one pound of good prunes, mix them with half a pound of boiled rice, four ounces of sugar, and four beaten eggs; tie the mass tight in a cloth, put it into a pan of boiling water, and boil one hour; pour sweet pudding sauce over it. SWEET EGG PUDDING. Boil six or eight eggs hard, slice them, and put them in a pudding dish; lay pieces of butter all over, and sprinkle in a few cleaned currants. Make a pan-cake batter with two eggs, sugar, a little butter minced, and a little sweet spice; cover with this and bake. A pie may be made of it by covering with pufi" paste. EVE'S PUDDING. Pare and core nice baking apples, place them in a pie- dish, cover with a batter made of four ounces of butter beaten to a cream, the same of sugar and flour^ four eggs beaten, and a little essence, either of lemon or almond; serve cream with it. DUTCH WAFER PUDDING. Put half a pound of butter in a pint of cream, with four ounces of flour bruised quite smooth with a little of the cream; take six yolks of eggs, and mix them with the other220 PASTRY, PUDDINGS, TAETS, ETC. ingredients in a saucepan. Stir well and make them all quite hot; let stand by the fire for a short time, fill buttered patty pans with them, and bake. Serve with good wine sauce poured over them. APPLE CHARLOTTE. Butter a plain pudding-basin, cut stale bread in thin slices, and put them in the basin, having spread butter on both sides. Pour in stewed apples, with sugar to sweeten; place buttered bread all over, and steam one hour; turn carefully «ut and aift sugar over. Serve with good cream, VANILLA CHARLOTTE. Line a mould with sliced sponge-cake, and fill up the space with vanilla cream; when turned out, ornament with wHte and pink icing, (for which see Recipe). These may be varied according to taste, filling up with any preserve you please. FRENCH CHARLOTTE. Bake sponge-cake batter in a cake-mould the day before it is wanted; take a slice off the under part and scoop out all the inside, keeping the outside quite whole, and fill with preserved fruit, such as apricots or plums. Pour m blanc-mange to fill up all the interstices; put on the slice of cake, and serve in a glass corner dish. It looks prettier to open it at the top and fiU the shell with raspberry cream; heap white switched cream on the top. TRIFLE. Cut six penny sponge-cakes into smaU pieces; mix amongst them two ounces of ratafia di'ops ; pour over them in a basin sherry negus with a little grated nutmeg;221 PASTRY, PUDDINGS, TARTS, ETC. ■when cold, pour into your disli; cover with a layer of raspberiy jam; pour over it thick boiled custard, flavoured with almond essence. Have well whipped cream ready, heap it over the custard, which must be quite cold. Sprinkle large grained pink sugar over the cream; a light open work border of ratafia drops, or crystallised rings makes it a pretty centre dish. The drops or rings are fastened together with liquid bai-ley-sugar. APPLE SNOW. Stew nice acid apples with white sugar, and as little water as possible; when cold mix in the beaten whites of six eggs, and put it in a Dutch oven before the fire, but at such a distance that it will not brown. Serve with cream. A PRETTY TOP OR BOTTOM DISH. Put a pretty border of light puff paste round a dish, fill it with preserved apples, pour a little of the syrup over them, and put • a few ornamented rings of pastry, fasten together with sugar icing, or barley-sugar. SOUFFLE. Cover an ashet with putF paste, and put a thick border round the edge ; bake it. "When done, fill it with apple marmalade, heaping it up as high as you can; co^r it all over with a strong froth of whites of eggs and sugar, putting a thick border of it over the paste. Put it in a cool oven to crisp, but see that it does not get brown. Put a layer of raspberries, and cover it again with a thick coating of the same mixture ; dry it in the same manner, keep it white. Fill a piping bag with the mixture, andPASTRY, PUDDINGS, TARTS, ETC. 222 cecorate it in patterns. When done, dry it again in the oven; let it be quite cold, and ornament it with preserved angelica and red currant jelly. SOUFFLE OF GREEN-GAGES. Make as above, but fiU with green-gages. When it is quite finished in the oven, ornament the top with part of the fruit placed neatly over it. SWEET PUDDING SAUCES. BRANDY SAUCE. • Make a nice butter sauce, with arrow-root or corn- flour, sweeten it and add a glass of sherry and one of brandy. A little seasomng may be added, though it is quite unnecessary if the pudding has been seasoned pro- perly. CAUDLE SAUCE—Fob Plum Pudding. Stir a dessert-spoonful of corn flour in a breakfast-cup of cream or good mUk (if with milk, mix in a httle sweet butter); stir over the fire to come through the boU, and stir in gradually the beaten yolk of an egg and two glasses of brandy. Brandy punch is generally served at the best tables with plum-pudding, and is better liked than the heavy sauces sometimes served with it, being rich enough in itself. SWEET SAUCE—Fob Puddings. Stir a breakfast-cup of cream or good milk over a table- spoonful arrow-root or corn-floui- cold, add a dessert-spoon- ful sifted loaf sugar, a little grated nutmeg, and stir overSWEET PUDDING SAUCES. 223 tlie fire until it boils; have a glass of sherry -wmo In the sauce boat, and pour the sauce over it, stirring it well alJ the time. ANOTHER SWEET SAUCE—For Puddings. Prepare an above, but omit the nutmeg, add flavour with any essence to taste; the beaten yolks of one or two eggs may be added at pleasure in the sauceboat. SWEET SHARP SAUCE. Make a thin butter sauce with corn-flour and milk, or cream, and add the grated rhind and juice of a small lemon, with sugar or raspbei-ry vinegar; when heated it suits for a great many diflerent kinds of puddings. CUSTARD SAUCE. Pom' a cup of hot milk over the beat yolks of two eggs and the white of one egg, flavour with lemon or almonds; set the dish in a pan of boiling water for a few minutes, stirring it all the time, until it thickens. You may, if you please, stir in a little white wine. WINE SAUCE. Boil a tea-cupful of sherry wine with sugar enough to sweeten it, pcur this gradually over a little corn-flour, and stir over the fire until it thickens; grate in a little nutmeg. BROWN SAUCE. When the sauces for puddings are wanted brown, a little dark coloured wine and mixed sweet spice will make it dark enough. Burnt sugar or browning is sure to spoil the flavour of the pudding.SWEET PUDDING SAUCES. 224 A FRENCH SAUCE FOR PUDDINGS. Put a table-spoonful of sugar, the beaten yolks of two eggs, and a cup of -white wine into a jelly-jar, set them in a pan of boiling water, stirring them constantly till quite thick. FRUIT SAUCES. Take fresh raspberries, sti-awberries, or currants; add to two breakfast-cups of them, the grated rhind and juice of a small lemon, and four ounces loaf sugar. Stir them over the fire, bruising them with the back of a spoon for ten minutes. Strain them, dressing them gently in a small hair sieve. They make a delicious sauce mixed together. PINE-APPLE SAUCE. Make four ounces sugar into thick barley-sugar syrup, with the grated rhind and juice of the half of a small lemon; pare and cut into dice six ounces fresh pine-apple; stir it in gently over the fire a few minutes. It may be used cold or hot, and is an excellent sauce for cold pud- ding. CHERRY SAUCE. The wild cherry makes the richest sauce. Make a bar- ley-sugar syrup as above, stone a few dozens of the cher- ries, and let them simmer gently amongst it, but not long enough to break them. Serve in a sauce tureen, to be used to pure white puddings, oi moulds of arrowroot, rice, <fec. RHUBARB SAUCE. Stew two pounds of the early pink rhubarb with sugar alone, without water, in an earthenware jar in a pan of boiling water. Pulp it when cold through a sieve, and stir a cup of good thick cream amongst it.227 PANCAKES, FKTTTEES, AND OMELETS. AMERICAN PANCAKES. Mix gradually four ounces of flour withi a breakfast- cup of good cream, the yolks of four, and whites of two eggs, well beaten, with a very little salt. Fry them in fresh butter, and sift sugar over them when done. CHEAP PANCAKES. Make a thick batter with flour, butter-milk, a little carbonate of soda, or baking powder, and a little sugar. Fry in the usual way, and sift sugar over them. CHEAP EICE PANCAKES. Take one pint of boiled rice and common flour, make into a batter with milk, knead into small cakes, and fry them. It is a good way of using up cold left rice. APPLE FRITTERS—No. I. Pare a few apples, slice them, and stamp out the core from each slice with a round cutter; take a fork and dip each slice in beat yolk of egg, seasoned with a little grated nutmeg and sugar. Dredge them all over with very fine bread-crumbs, and fry in lard a light brown. They may be served thus, or dipped into pancake batter also, and fried again to make them thicken. APPLE FRITTERS—No. II. Do them as above. After frying them, dip them in rather thick pancake batter, and fry them. RICE FRITTERS. Mix a tea-cupful of rice flour with two breakfast-cupfula of sweetmilk, a table-spoonful of sugar, and thegrated rhind228 PANCAKES, FEITTERS, AND OMELETS. of a small lemon; stir over the fire until quite thick When quite cold lift a spoonful at a time, dip it in pancake batter and fry till brown. Sift sugar over. FRITTERS OF COLD LEFT PUDDINGS. Slice the remains of cold pudding and dip them into pancake batter, and fry, dusting them over with sugar. ORANGE FRITTERS. Stir into thick pancake batter one or two table-spoonfuls orange marmalade, drop it in spoonfuls into the frying-pan, and serve quite hot on a napkin. PLAIN FRITTERS. Fry in spoonfuls pancake batter, drain them and serve with sugar and lemon juice over them. RHUBARB AND APPLE FRITTERS. Stew either and stir into pancake batter, and drop into fresh sweet boiling lard in spoonfuls until slightly browned BICE FRITTERS. BoH four ounces CaroUna rice in a great quantity of water twenty minutes, drain it when dry, stir amongst it a table-spoonful sugar, a small piece of fresh butter, a small chopped apple, a few currants, a tea-spoonful sweet spice, and two well-beaten eggs; drop them in spoonfuls into the fc.yiug-pan. Drain and sift sugar over. FRENCH PANCAKES. Melt two ounces of butter, and add to it an ounce of ratafia biscuits pounded, the grated rhmd of a lemon, twoPANCAKES, FRITTERS, AND OMELETS. 229 ounces crushed loaf-sugar, tbe beaten yolks of two eggs, and a little cream. Beat up the whites to a snow, and stir them in last; have the frying-pan ready, and pour over a thin layer of the batter. Fry and drain them. Serve with them a sauce made by adding to a little of the batter, one or two glasses wine stirred over the fire in a small sauce- pan until it boils. PEACH FRITTERS. Slice preserved or fresh peaches, dip them in nice pancake batter, and fry in the usual way, or as apple fritters. APRICOT OR NECTARINE FRITTERS, TLt3 same as peach. CAKE FRITTERS. When rich cakes become too dry by long keeping, thev may be made use of by cutting them up into small squares, cupping them into pancake batter and frying them. When well drained and cold, spread preserves over them. SWEET OMELET. Separate the yolks and whites of six eggs; beat the yolks with a table-spoonful of sifted loaf-sugar until quite light; add a table-spoonful of rice flour; beat the whites to a stiff snow, stir in gently but thoroughly, season with a lew drops of essence of lemon. Pour the mixture into a hot omelet-pan in which about an ounce of sweet butter has been melted. If not cooked on a hot-plate, hold the pan high over the fire until the omelet has well risen ; put it before the fire to brown, spread jam over the one half, double it over, and serve immediately on a neatly folded napkin.PANCAKES, PRITTEES, AND OMELETS. 230 SWEET OMELET. Prepare tlie mixture as above; pour the one half of it into the pan, and when quite set, spread a thick coating of rasp or strawberry jam over it; pour the other half of the mixture over, and put down before the fire to rise and get brown. SWEET OMELET. Separate the yolks and whites of six eggs; beat up the yolks with a table-spoonful sugar, add a small cup of good thick cream, stir in the whites carefully, and fry jBlowly until very well risen; place the pan before the fire to brown, put jam over it, and double it over. SWEET OMELET. Crumble three penny sponge cakes into small atoms, stir them into a breakfast-cup of good cream, stir in the beaten yolks of three eggs with a little sugar, and latterly the whites beaten to a snow. Cook and serve as in fore- going recipes, always remembering to cook verj- gradually, and serve immediately they are done on neatly folded napkins. JELLIES, CUEAMS, BLANC-MANGE, &c. ■ CALVES' FEET JELLY, No. I.—Fob Two Moulds. Put two calves' feet (after thoroughly soaking them) on to boil with four quarts of water; when the meat parts from the bones, and the water is reduced one half, strain and let stand till cold; take off any fat from the top with a clean cloth wi-ung out of hot water ; wipe it clean off, keeping back the sediment. Put it into a preserving-pan,JELLIES, CREAMS, BLA^TC-MANGE, ETC. 231 with twelve ounces of loaf-sugar, the rhind and juice of two small lemons, half an ounce of stalk cinnamon, the same of corianders, four cloves, a pinch of hay saffron, a few drops of cochineal, and the crushed shells and whites of four eggs slightly frothed. When the jelly comes through the boil, whisk the whites and shells smartly for half a minute amongst it. Boil gently five minutes, pour in four glasses of sherry, take it from the fii-e, and cover with a thick woollen cloth, so that the steam will not evaporate. You will find, if the directions have been properly attended to, that the jelly will be quite settled and clear. Have a felt or plaiding bag, made with an interlining a little smaller than the bag of thick cotton, so that the refuse will be caught in it, and allow the jelly to drip through. Let your jelly-moulds be of tin, or copper tinned, and wet them with cold water before filling them; to turn out, wrap a hot cloth round them for a short time. CALVES' FEET JELLY, No. II.—For One Mould, Soak, for nearly twenty minutes, an ounce and a-half of Mackay's (of Edinburgh) " Extract of Calves' Feet," in cold water; strain the water from it, and pour over it, in your preserving pan, an English quart of boiling water; put it on the fire with half the quantities of seasonings given in No. I. recipe; whisk in the eggs and shells when boiling, cover up to steam, and run through the bag. A MACEDOINE OF JELLY. EUl a mould (quite loosely, without packing it) with a few grapes and slices of preserved crystallised fruit of various kinds, a few balls of pink and white cream, and232 JELLIES, CREAMS, BLANC-MANGE, ETO. fill the mould with clear jelly to the top; the jelly must be cold but not begun to thicken; turn carefully out by wrapping a cloth wrung out of hot water round the mould. VARIEGATED JELLY. Have a little clear jelly and blanc-mange made; pour a little of the jelly into the mould, and when set, pour in a layer of blanc-mange, then a layer of jelly (part of the jelly of a deep pink colour); put in a layer of each alter- nately until the mould is filled. ORANGE JELLY. Divide six or eight nice flavoured oranges, squeeze the juice from them with lemon squeezers, and add an ounce and a half of dissolved isinglass, and four ounces of loaf sugar; when boiling whisk in the whites and shells of two eggs; steam and run through the bag into a wetted mould. If not deep enough in the colour put in a little saflEron and a few drops of cochineal. LEMON SPONGE-No. I. Pare the rhinds of three lemons, taking care not to pare off any of the white inner rhind; put with the juice into a preserving pan, with an English pint of cold water; add a sixpenny packet of "Extract of Calves' Feet" or three quarters of an ounce of isinglass; let it come slowly to the boil, and strain it over half a pound of loaf sugar; let it stand tUl nearly cold, and whisk in the white of an egg previously beaten to a snow; whisk for half an hour, or until thick and light; pour it into a wetted mould. LEMON SPONGE—No. IL Mix the juice of eight lemons and the grated rhind ofJELLIES, CREAMS, BLANC-MANGE, ETC. 233 one, •with half a pound of loaf sugar, and half an ounce of isinglass dissolved; whisk all together until quite light and stiff, then pour into a wetted mould. RASPBERRY CREAM. Soak an ounce of "Extract of Calves' Feet" in water twenty minutes, strain off the water and pour over it a little warm milk, not boiling; take an English pint of good thick cream, four ounces of sifted loaf-su^ar and raspberry syrup (to taste strong of the raspberries); whip until very light; colour a pretty pale pink with coc'LineaL ITALIAN CREAM. Take a piece of loaf sugar weighing six ounces, grate the rhind from two lemons with it, bruise the sug-i^ md put it into a large basin, add the grated rhind, the strained juice of the lemons, and a pint and a half of cream, whisk until it has become quite thick, line a perforated mould with muslin, pour in the cream, and as it sinks fill it a.<rain. WHITE LEMON CREAM. Soak an ounce of "Extract of Calves' Feet" in cold water twenty minutes; strain off the water and melt the extract in a cup of hot milk; stir it well till it diasolves; whip an English pint of good cream with thi-ee ouDces of sifted sugar, and whisk together a few minutes; flavour with a few drops of essence of lemon, and pour into a wetted mould. LEMON CREAM. Take a piece of loaf sugar and rub off the outer rhind of a lemon with it, bruise it, and put it to an English pint of good thick cream, with the juice of the lemon strained, 2 GJELLIES, CREAMS, BLANC-MANGE, ETC. 234 and three ounces of sifted loaf-sugar; whisk together quite light. Having prepared an ounce of " Extract of Calves' Feet" as for raspberry cream, whisk it very well amongst the cream. Colour with tincture of saffron a lemon colour. WHITE VANILLA CREAM. Soak and prepare an ounce of "Extract of Calves' Feet" as above, whisk it into an English pint of whisked cream that has been sweetened with three ounces of sugar; flavour with essence of vanilla. STEAWBEREY CREAM—No. I. Soak an ounce of "Extract of Calves' Feet" twenty minutes, drain off the water, and melt the extract in a cup of hot milk; wash a table-spoonful of strawberry jam in milk and strain it; whisk up an EngUsh pint of good thick cream with two ounces of fine sifted sugar. Mix all together, and if not pink enough, add a few drops of cochineal STEAWBEERY CBEAM.—No. IL Squeeze the juice of a large lemon over an ounce of loaf- sugar, a cup of preserved strawberries or raspberries, and a pint of good thick cream; whip them up smartly until quite thick, and pour into a wetted mould. A little wine is an improvement. GINGEE CEEAM. Cut up two ounces of nice green preserved ginger, mix ftem with a little of their own syrup in a mould of lemon PINE APPLE CEEAM. Cut up a few slices of preserved pine apple, and mix them with a little of their syrup in a mould of lemon cream.235 JELLIES, CREAMS, BLANC-MANGE, &C. APPLE CREAM. Stew a few nice flavoured apples in as little water as possible, let them soak the juice all up, and press them through a sieve; whip a quart of cream with the grated rhind and juice of .a lemon, and half a pound of loaf sugar sifted. Mix together, and whisk until quite light. Serve in a trifle dish. A GERMAN APPLE CREAM. Half fill a crystal trifle-dish with nice stewed apples, make a custard, as for glasses, with a pint of milk boiled with foLU' ounces of sugar, poured over the beaten yolks of six eggs, stirred over the fire till quite thick, and when cold, heaped on the apples with a spoon. Whisk a pint of cream with lemon juice, sugar, and a glassof brandy till quite thick, and as you do it, lay it on a sieve to drain; place it over the custard, heaping it as high as you can. Sift pink sugar over it. FRENCH APPLE CREAM. Pare and core two pounds of nice green apples, putting them into water as you do them, pound them in a mortar, and mix them with a pint of good thick cream, and half a pound of sifted loaf-sugar; whisk very well until it gets a little stifl", mix in a stale sixpenny sponge-cake that has been crumbled into very fine crumbs. Pour into a trifle- dish. CHOCOLATE CREAM. Essence of chocolate added to a mould of white lemon cream. COFFEE CREAM. Same as chocolate. BLANC-MANGE. Soak two ounces of "Mackay's Extract of Calves' Feet"JELLIES, CREAMS, BLAKC-MANGE, ETC. 236 in cold water, strain and pour over it a quart of milk hot, but not boiling, and stir to dissolve the extract. Flavour with bitter almond essence, and four ounces of sugar dissolved amongst the' milk over the fire. Pour into a wetted mould. WHIPPED CREAM Is used to cover open tarts, trifles, custards, &c. The cream for this purpose must be the very best you can procure. Whatever quantity you require, pour it into an earthenware basin. Sweeten it to taste. Take a clean birch whisk, and whisk the cream very quickly at the one side of the basin, when the froth will go all to the other side. Take it off with a slice, and place it on a clean hair sieve to drain, with a plate under the sieve. Some cooks put a glass of wine or a little lemon juice in the cream before whisking it. JAUNE MANGE, or YELLOW MEAT, FOR CUSTARD GLASSES Soak half an ounce of "Extract of Calves' Feet," in cold water; pour off the water; put it into a clean sauce- pan, with the grated rhind and juice of a small lemon, a tea-spoonful of cold water, and half a cupful of wine; stir it over the fire till it boils; take it from the fire; sweeten it to taste, and add to it by degrees the beaten yolks of three eggs. Fill the custard cups when cold, and cover the tops with whipped cream. ARROW-BOOT BLANC-MANGE. Take two table-spoonfuls of arrow-root, or Brown & Poison's corn-flour (which is much cheaper, and suits equally well), and a quart of milk; with part of the mUk bruise the arrow-root or corn-flour, as in making staich.JELLIES, CREAMS, BLANC-MANGE, ETC. 237 Boil the milk with sugar and a few drops of almond flavour, pour it over and stir. Put it on the fire and stir till thick. Let it boU a minute, and then pour into a wetted mould. You may colour it pink with cochineal, as an opposite corner to the white; or make the top of one pink, and that of the pink shape white. CREAM & WATER ICES, ICED PUDDINGS, &c. RASPBERRY ICE CREAM. An ice pail and freezer is needed to make ice cream, the freezer is made of zinc with an iron spoon. Break the ice in small pieces, put some in the pail and strew salt over it. Set in the freezer, filling up the pail with ice and salt. This done, whisk up a quart of good cream flavoured with raspberry syrup, jelly, or jam that has been washed in milk, and strain it into the cream ; add two ounces of sifted loai-sugar, and a few drops of cochineal. Pour into the freezer and spin it round amongst the ice for twenty minutes, taking it ofi" the sides with the spoon as it freezes, If wanted for ice plates or glasses, whisk till quite firm, put on the lid, cover with a thick woollen cloth, and put it aside in the coolest place till wanted. If for a mould fill it when half frozen, and keep it amongst the ice tUl wanted. STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM Is made in the same manner as raspberry. LEMON WATER ICE. Grate the rhinds from three lemons and squeeze the juice from them. Pound half a pound of sugar on whichCREAM AND WATER ICES, ETC. 238 you have grated the lemons; add a quart of tliin sugar syrup, and put the whole into the freezer and freeze in the usual way.—See Raspberry Ice Cream. LEMON ICE CBEAM. Whisk a qtiart of good cream with six ounces of sifted loaf-sugar. When the freezer is set, as before mentioned, pour it in, well seasoned with essence of lemon, and freeze it—either for glasses, plates, or a mould—exactly as rasp- berry. ORANGE WATER ICE. Take twelve juicy St. Michael oranges and cut them in halves, squeezing out the juice with lemon squeezers, the juice of a lemon, and eight ounces of sifted loaf-sugar; pour this into the freezer (set as for cream), and spin or turn it ro\iud very rapidly amongst the ice tUl quite frozen. Cover up and keep in a cold place tUl wanted. GINGER ICE. Mince four ounces of nice tender preserved ginger, mix it with four table-spoonfuls of the syrup in a quart of nice thick whisked cream, and freeze as in the previous recipes. PINE APPLE ICE. Pare a fresh pine apple, press it through a sieve, and mix the pulp with six ounces of sifted loaf-sugar in a quart of thick whisked cream; stir in also the grated rhind and the luice of a small lemon. Pour into the freezer, and proceed as above directed. PINE APPLE WATER ICE. Peel and boil about a pound of pine apple in thin syrup; pulp, and when quite cold, freeze it; preserved pine apple mi'^ht be iised with a pint of the syrup and water.CREAM AND -WATEE, ICES, ETC. 241 APPLES AND CREAM—For a Centre Dish. Whisk a quart of good thick cream -with a little sugar and lemon juice 3 mix in gradually a quantity of stewed apple pulp, and beat very light; serve in a centre dish, and dust over with white sifted sugar. THE QUEEN'S FAVOURITE. Fill a pudding-dish or mould with preserved peaches; pour lemon Italian cream over them, to till the mould. SHAPE OF FRENCH PLUMS. Stew a pound and a half of French plums, stone them, bruise the stones, and mix them with the plums; fill a jelly mould with them, and pour in calves' feet jelly to stiffen. Put a border round a small ashet of the whites of eggs whipped to a snow, and put it in the oven to crisp; keep quite white, and turn out the mould in it. LEMON HONEYCOMB. Press out the juice of four large lemons, and grate the |rhind of one lemon, pour these into a crystal dish over four ounces of sifted loaf sugar ; bring a pint of thick cream to the boil; put it into a tea-pot, and when quite cold pour it on the juice and sugar, holding it as high as you ' can. It looks pretty when well done, flavour the cream with a few drops of essence of lemon. A SHAPE OF APPLES—(Gateau de Pommes). Pare, core, and cut into pieces two pounds of apples; iput them in strong salt and water as you do them. Let (them lie in it twelve hours, then wash them out, and soak tthem two hours in fresh water; wipe them with a cloth 2 H242 CREAM AND WATEE ICES, ETC. very diy . Put a pound of loaf-sugar, with a breakfast-cup of cold water, the grated rhind and the juice of a lemon, on to boil. When it has become quite thick, put in your apples, and simmer till quite clear and stiff. Press into a mould, and turn out when quite cold. OUR QUEEN'S PUDDING—The Royal Victoria. Fill a rather deep dome-shaped cake-mould with pre- served peaches; make a large quantity of good calves' feet jelly, rather a little stronger than usual, and colour part of it a pretty pink; pour in some of the jelly in the mould, so that it will be at the top about an inch deep. When cold, pour in a little more of the jelly, a pale lemon colour, and when that is set, pour the mould full of the rest of the jelly, coloured amber. When quite fii-m, turn out in a dish, with a pretty light ornamental border of crystallised rings, kept together with barley-sugar ; spin it all round with the sugar, and over the top, by dipping a fork, and running it round quickly. When the sugar gets too hard, hold the pan over the fire, a minute; frost it aU over with pink and white sugar. GOOSEBERRY FOOL. Stew green gooseberries in very little water, till they will pulp through a coai-se sieve; stir sugar and cream amongst the pulp, and serve. It must be rather thick of the pulp, and is sometimes mixed with the yolks of eggs, and thickened over the fire. It is generally liked best without the eggs. APPLE AND RHUBARB FOOL Js made aS^oosebeiTy, but is nob so weU liked-CAKES AND SMALL PASTRY. 245 yolks and flour, wliich prevents curdling, the raisins, and last tlie whites, mix thoroughly; season with a tea-spoonful essence of lemon, and bake as above. EICE CAKE —No. I. To one pound fresh butter add one and a half pound sifted loaf-sugar, beat to a snow; mix in one pound weight common and rice floux-, the yolks and whites (well-beaten) of one dozen eggs, flavour with almond or lemon essence; bake in a pan lined with stifi" white paper. RICE CAKE—No. II. Boil four ounces of Carolina I'ice in a good quantity of water ten minutes, drain it; mix with ib a large breakfast- cupful of boiling milk, in which half a pound of butter has been melted, and half a pound of sugar; mix in one pound of American flour, a tea-spoonful of baking powder; add it to the mixture, and six eggs beaten (yolks and whites together); flavour with a few drops of bitter almonds. RICE CAKE.—No. III. Mix half a pound of sifted loaf-sugar with half a pound of ground rice, and four or six well-beaten eggs (beaten all together); flavour with lemon or almond, and bake ia a buttered tin or mould. RICE CAKE.—No. IV. Boil six ounces of Carolina rice in a good deal of water, drain it; bring it through the boil again, with a breakfast- cupful of cream and four ounces of sugar; grate the yellow rhind of a small lemon, and add the juice and rhind to the rice, with the yolks of six, and whites of two eggs, beaten IICAKES AND SMALL PASTRY. 246 very light, and four ounces of butter. Mix all very well together ; butter a pyramidal-shaped mould, and sift veiy fine bread-crumbs all over it; pour in the c^ke, and bake it. ADELAIDE CAKE. Beat with the hand, in an earthenware basin, one pound of butter, and the same of sifted loaf sugar; beat separately the yolks and whites of ten eggs ; add the yolks first, along with one pound of flour and two ounces of rice flour, add the whites, and one pound nicely cleaned currants; flavour with essence of nutmeg and lemon, and bake in a tin pan lined with thick white paper, without buttering it. SAVOY CAKE. Savoy cakes are generally baked in moulds, which must be well greased with melted mutton suet, drained well, which should be kept for the pui-pose all in readiness; drip the moisture from the mould, and dredge it thoroughly with sifted loaf-sugar. Separate the yolks and whites of fourteen eggs; beat up the yolks with a pinch of salt and the sugar until they are very light; stir the white of egg in very lightly, and by degrees ; having whisked them to a firm snow, flavour with lemon or any other essence, and bake in a moderate oven, when you think it is done, or appears to be so, try it with a skewer, if it comes out quite dry it is done, SPONGE CAKE.—No. I. Dry and sift six ounces of rice flour, and the same of fine American; mix well with it a tea-spoonful of Mackay's -Baking Powder;" add one pound of sifted loaf-sugar, beat the yolks and whites often eggs separately, and stir247 CAKES AND SMALL PASTRY. in the yolks first, tten the -whites. Mix very well to- gether, flavour with lemon essence, and bake in a tin pan lined with stiff white paper, without buttering, in a cool oven. SPONGE CAKE.—No 11. Pour a cup of water over one pound of sifted loaf- sugar, bring it through the boil; break eight eggs into a basin (do not whisk them, but break them a little with the whisk); grate the rhind of a lemon amongst them; pour the sugar and water over them boiling hot, but whisking them smartly all the while; beat together half an hom-, and mix in three quarters of a pound of flour, half rice and American flour; bake in a pan lined with stifi" paper. SPONGE CAKE.—No. III. For every ounce of flour take an ounce of sifted loaf- sugar and one egg; break the eggs in a basin, and whisk them over a pan of boiling water till warm, whisk till quite cold again, and stir in the sugar and flour; season with essence of lemon, and bake in a papered tin, in a cool oven. LEMON CAKE.—No. I. Half a pound of flour and one pound of sifted loaf- sugar, the grated rhind and juice of a large lemon, and ten eggs (the yolks and whites beaten separately). LEMON CAKE.—No. IL Beat half a pound of butter, and half a pound of sugar to a snow, add a pound of flour, three well-beaten eggs, and the grated rhind and juice of two. lemons; knead together, mould them in a well cut mould, and bake in a moderately heated oven.248 CAKES AND SMALL PASTRY. ALMOND CAKE. Pound in a mortar six ounces of blanched almonds with a few drops of orange flower water, to prevent them oil- ing^ separate the yolks and whites of six eggs, and beat them up very light. Mix in the yolks first with the grated rhiud, and six ounces of flour; stir in the whites last, and bake in a buttered mould in a moderate oven. ARROW-ROOT CAKE. Beat seven yolks and four whites of eggs very light, with six ounces of sifted loaf sugar; mix in gradually half a pound of arrow-root rolled and sifted, and a tea-spoonful " Mackay's Baking Powder;" flavour with a few drops of essence of lemon. Bake in a buttered mould in a moder- ate oven. CITRON CAKE. Beat three-quarters of a pound of fi-esh butter to a snow with the same quantity of sugar; mix half a pound of common flour with the same quantity of ground rice, six beaten eggs, and four ounces of citi*on-peel cut in very thin slices and minced. Lay stripes of citron-peel cut very thin over the top, and sift sugar over when nearly done. Bake in two round cake-hoops, Uned with thick white paper. MADEIRA CAKE. Made as above, but the citron slices and the sugar on the top, without the fruit in the cake, and flavour with a few drops of almond or ratafia. NEW YEAR'S BUN. Procui'e a quartern loaf from the baker, or four pounds roll-dough, in the morning; work half a pound of butter249 CAKES AND SMALL PASTRY. into it, and keep it warm two hours, that it may rise. Meantime, stone two pounds of raisins, clean two pounds of currants, cut one pound of orange-peel into stripes, blanch and cut one pound of Valencia almonds, and mix one ounce ground ginger with two ounces of " Mackay's Sweet- Spice." Cut off a fourth-part of the dough for a cover, and mix all the fruit and spice in what remains. When well mixed, butter your pan, and press in the mixture to mould it. Roll out your piece of dough quite thin, brush it all over with water, knock out your bun in the centre of the dough, and cover it all over, cutting off any super- fluous paste; put it into your pan, keeping the smooth side up, brush it over with beat egg, and prick it all over with a fork; take a skewer, and pierce it here and there down to the bottom of the pan. Bake in a moderate oven two hours. PLAIN BUN OR CURRANT LOAF. Clean one pound of currants, stone one pound of Yalencia raisins; cut half a pound of orange-peel in very thin slices, and mince it; then work them well into a quartern loaf of dough (procured from the baker), with one pound of butter and two ounces of mixed sweet spice. Beat up one dozen of eggs, and knead all well together. Bake in a buttered pan in a moderate oven. SIMPLE TEA CAKE. Mix very well together one pound of flour, half a tea- spoonful of carbonate of soda, the same of cream of tartar, four ounces of sugar, and a tea-spoonful of mixed spice; clean one pound of currants or sultana raisins; rub four ounces of butter into it, and pour as much very sour butter- 2 ICAKES AND SMALL PASTRY. 250 milk in as will moisten it, taking care not to put more than is sufficient to allow you to knead it together with your hands. Bake in a buttered pan, glaze with beaten egg, and sift sugar over it. It may be made cheaper by a less quantity of fruit, or richer by adding four beaten eggs. PLAIN TEA CAKE. One pound flour, half a pound of butter, half a pound of sugar (the butter and sugar beaten with a wooden spoon in a basin), with four eggs and a little milk; mix the flour with one tea-spoonful of baking powder, flavour with a few drops of essence of lemon, and one ounce of sifted carraway seeds. LIGHT LEMON TEA BUNS. Procure from the baker, in the morning, two pounds of roll dough, and keep it warm by the fire until well risen ; heat over the fire one tea-cupful of new milk, and four ounces of fresh butter; work this with the hands well into the dough, with half a pound of sugar, the yolks and whites of two well beaten eggs, and flavour with essence of lemon. Use a little flour to make it into a dough again, and let it stand near the fire to rise. Cut oS" pieces the size of an egg, roll them quite smooth, place them on buttered tins, brush them over with white of egg, dust sugar over them, and bake quickly. LONDON TEA BUNS. To one pound of flour add four ounces of sugar, half a tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda, the same of tartaric acid, an orange skin cut in dice, four ounces of bufct«r, tbree eggs well beaten, flavour with a good deal of lemon251 CAKES AND SMALL PASTRY. epsence, and make into a dough as quick as you can, with butter-milk (if you have no butter-milk use warm sweet milk, in which you can melt the butter), cut in pieces twice the size of an egg; roll them into balls, brush over with beat yolk of egg; strew roughly broken loaf sugar over, and bake. PLAIN SHORTBREAD. Take half a pound of slightly powdered butter, rub it with the hands amongst one pound of flour, and four ounces crushed loaf sugar; make it into a smooth ball, and beat it into a round or square cake pan; prickle it all over with a fork; pinch it round the edges, and bake in a moderate oven half an hour. ALMOND SHORTBREAD. Take thi-ee quarters of a pound of flour, half a pound of butter, four ounces of sugar, one ounce of minced almonds, flavoured with essence of bitter almonds; rub in the half of the butter with the hands, melt the other half, and make into a paste with it. RICE SHORTBREAD. Take half a pound of rice flour and ground rice mixed, half a pound best American flour, four ounces sugar, with a few drops of essence of lemon; melt half a pound of butter and make into a paste (this quantity will make two square cakes); prickle with a small fork, do the edges nicely, and sift sugar over it PITCAITHLY CAKE. Cream half a pound of butter, and four ounces sifted loaf-sugar; when very light make into a round thick252 CAKES AND SMALL PASTRY. cake with one pound of flour, four ounces of blanched almonds, and four ounces minced candied orange peel; knead it together, and bake in a round cake pan in a moderate oven. SPANISH CAKE—No. L Melt one pound of butter over the fire in an English pint of milk; mix in a tea-cupful of yeast, eight eggs, one glass of brandy, and pour gradually over a pound and a half of flour; beat well; cover with a woollen cloth, and keep in a warm place to rise; when well risen, stir in three quarters of a pound of sugar, an ounce of mixed sweet spice, one ounce of candied citron, the same of orange peel, four tea-spoonfuls of orange flower water. Mix weU, and bake in a moderate oven. SPANISH CAKE—No. II. Beat up twelve eggs with half a pound of sugar; mix in one pound of flour, half a pound of pounded almonds, two ounces of candied citron, two ounces of candied orange peel, four spoonfuls of orange flower water, half an ounce of ground cinnamon, and one glass of winej bake in a moderate oven. GINGERBREAD CAKE—No. I. Warm a tea-cupful of milk, with four ounces of butter, in one pound of treacle; weigh two pounds of flour, and mix well with it two tea-spoonfuls of carbonate of soda with one of tartaric acid, four ounces of brown sugar, half an ounce of ginger, one ounce of mixed sweet spice, with four ounces of minced orange peel; stir all together, and add as much flour as will make it quite stifl"; put itCAKES AND SMALL PASTRY. 255 ounce of sweet spice, and the yolks of two eggs; when well kneaded cut it in two, and line the bottom of a round cake-pan with one half. Stew some apples with sugar and a few dried currants; when quite cold put them all over the cake. Roll out the other half, and cover the apples with it; bake for half an hour, and let stand till cold before taking it out of the pan; ice it all over the top, and ornament it on the top, then return it to the oven to make it crisp. SMALL SOUFFLE CAKES. Make a German paste as above, roll the paste quite thin, cut it into small biscuits the size of a tea-cup mouth, and bake them on paper; beat the whites of a few eggs to a sti^F snow, flavour with a few drops of lemon, and dust a little sugar amongst them; put a spoonful of raspberry jam in the centre of the cake; when they are baked and quite cold cover it with the white of egg and raise it neatly, smoothing with a knife in the form of a dinner roll, ornament on the top with the egg squirted through a piping-bag. Put in a cool oven to rise, but do not let them get brown. When quite cold put a little red currant jelly on the top. SWEET SANDWICHES. Make a small quantity of sponge cake, No. I.; cover a baking-tin with paper, melt a small piece of butter in it, and brush it all over; spread the cake in two rounds twice the size of a small saucer, and bake them. Put raspberry or strawberry jam between, and cut in eight pieces, three-cornered ways.256 CAKES AND SMALL PASTRY. SWEET Sandwiches. Prepare three cakes as above, put red currant or rasp- berry jelly in one row, and marmalade in the other. GERMAN WAFEES. Put four eggs into a stew-pan with their weight of sugar, a few carraway seeds, and a few drops of essence of lemon, with one table-spoonful of flour; stir over the fire with an iron spoon till warm, beat well with the spoon, and drop in small quantities on a buttered tin; bake them; when done, turn them round in the form of those small bags which the grocers put small quantities of tea and sugar in. LEMON CHEESE CAKES. Beat with a wooden spoon, in a small earthen bowl, two ounces of butter and two ounces of sugar; when quite light add three eggs by degrees, beating a long while; an ounce of rice flour, and the same of American, flavour with lemon essence. Cover cheese-cake pans with nice puff paste, and half fill them with the mixture; put narrow stripes of the paste over them, and bake Id a quick oven. Sift a little sugar over them when done. ORANGE CHEESE CAKES.—No. I. Melt smooth marmalade (that is orange marmalade made with the skins grated instead of chips), with a little fresh butter, two or three eggs, and a few almonds pounded. When the butter is quite melted mix it well, let stand tiU quite cold, and fill cheese-cake pans lined with puff paste.257 CAKES AND SMALL PASTKY, ORANGE CHEESE CAKES—No. II. Make as above, but add crumbled sponge cake to the mixture. ALMOND CHEESE CAKES. The same as lemon, only flavoured with bitter almond essence. APPLE CHEESE CAKES. Simmer half a pound of apples minced, in four ounces of fresh butter, with the same quantity of sugar, when cold stir in three beaten eggs, the grated rhind and juice of a lemon, and bake in patty pans lined with puff paste. POTATO CHEESE CAKES. Mix with two table-spoonfuls nicely mashed potatoes, the same of smooth orange marmalade, a little sugar, butter, and the yolks of three eggs; stir over the fire until all is melted, and when cold fill patty pans lined with puff paste. CURD CHEESE CAKE. Drain the whey from what quantity of curd you require, break the curd quite smooth, mix with a bit of fresh butter, a grated lunch water biscuit, a little wine and sugar, the grated rhind and juice of a large lemon, and two or three beaten eggs. Neai-ly fill patty-pans Hned with puff-paste, and sift sugar over them when done. QUEEN CAKES. Beat to a snow four ounces of butter and the same of powdered sugar, add three beat eggs, four ounces of flour, a few currant?, and a few drops of essence of lemon. Half fill buttered cheese-cake pans, and bake. 2 KCAKES AND SMALL PASTRT, 258 ROUT CAKE. Make a large square of spouge-cake about one inch tHicK, -when done, ice it over with white icing, and pipe it with pink icing. RASPBEKRY TARTLETS. Line patty-pans with puff-paste, and half fill them with raspberry preserve; checker them with narrow stripes of the paste, and bake in a quick oven. SMALL CITRON CAKES. Pour a cupful of good cream gradually over a spoonful of flour, two ounces of sugar, and a Httle grated nutmeg; beat the yolks of three eggs, and mix all together. Butter cheese cake pans, lay a stripe of citron peel in the bottom, and nearly fill the pans with the mixture. Bake them in a quick oven, and turn them out when done on a napkin. WHITE GINGERBREAD. Beat half a pound of butter with one pound of sugar to a snow; beat two eggs, and mix all together with one pound of flour, one ounce of ginger, a few di-ops of essence of lemon, and one tea-spoonful of baking powder or ammonia. Bake in square cakes in a moderately heated oven. TREACLE CAKES. Mix with one pound of oatmeal a tea-spoonful of bakmg powder. Heat half a pound of treacle with four ounces of butter, a little ginger and Jamaica pepper. Stir wefl together, and fry in spoonfuls. They will run into round cakes likes biscuits. QUEEN DROPS. Beat up eight ounces of butter with six of sugar ; addCAKES AND SMALL PASTRT. 259 six eggs well beaten, one pound of flour, a few currants, and a few drops of lemon essence. Drop the mixture on a baking tin on buttered paper; a few minutes bakes them. MACAROONS. One pound of almonds (bitter and sweet), two pounds of sugar, the whites of six eggs beaten to a snow; beat aU together very well, and drop it on wafer paper from a spoon; the wafer paper put into a baking tin covered with butter paper. ALMOND BISCUITS. Pound half a pound of almonds (bitter and sweet), with three quarters of sifted loaf-sugar; make into a stiff paste with one table-spoonful of corn-flour, and the yolks of two eggs. Roll out thin, dusting with a little corn-flour. Cut out in small fanciful forms and bake them. Ornament with candied angelica, and pink and white icing. Bake in a moderate oven until crisp. RATAFIA DROPS. Beat macaroon mixture very light and drop on cartridge paper. Place them in a baking tin and bake as above. ROSE SOUFFLE DROPS. Colour very light icing with cochineal, and flavour with otto of roses; drop on cartridge paper, and bake in a very cool oven. LEMON SOUFFLE DROPS. White icing flavoured with essence of lemon, and baked as the rose drops. VANILLA. The same, flavoured with essence of vanilla.CAKES AND SMALL PASTBY. 260 MERINGUES Are made with very light thick icing. Sift a little sugar over sheets of cartridge paper, drop the icing over them -with a table-spoon, dust some with pretty pink sugar, aud some with white, and let them remain in a cool oven till quite crisp. Take them off the paper with a knife dipped in cold water; scoop out a little of it and put in raspberry jam ; put two aud two together, and return them for a short time to the oven. They may be kept for a long time, and make a pretty dish with green leaves. They are often filled with switched cream. APPLE OK PEACH MERINGUES. Dry the syrup from preserved peaches or apples, and cover them with the meringue mixture. Keep in a cool oven till quite dry; dust them over with pink sugar. MERINGUED FRUIT CAKES Take the skins from apricots or any nice juicy plums, strawberries or rasps will do likev/ise; press the pulp through a sieve, and for half a pound of pulp put five ounces powdered sugar, and the whites of two eggs well beaten. Beat all together very light; drop them on stiff white paper dusted with sugar, and dry in a cool oven. GINGER BISCUITS. Put six ounces of fresh sweet lai'd rubbed with the hands amongst eight ounces of flour, and six ounces of sugar, with a tea-spoonful of ground ginger, and the yolk of one egg. Knead all together, and roll out very thin. Stamp out with a small tin cutter the size of the mouth of a wine glass, and bake in a quick oven.,261 CAKES AND SMALL PASTRT. LEMON BISCUITS. The same as the above, flavoured with essence of lemon. CINNAMON BISCUITS. The same, flavoured with ground cinnamon. The above biscuits may be made suitable for dessert, by cutting them with a small cutter notched, icing and ornamenting them DERBY BISCUITS. Mix with twelve ounces of flour, six ounces of brown sugar, one tea-spoonful of ammonia, and rub well in with the hands six ounces lard; add four ounces of currants, a few drops essence of lemon, and a very little milk. VICTORIA BISCUITS. Rub with the hands two ounces of butter into one pound of flour, with two ounces of S3ugar ; make into a paste with milk. Knead well, roll out thin, and cut into small bis- cuits ; prickle them, and whenever they are ready bake in a quick oven. STAMPED BISCUITS. Mix with one pound of flour a tea-spoonful of baking powder, rub in well four ounces of butter; mix it into a stiff paste with cold water; knead it well and very smooth; roll them into small round balls, and stamp them with a small butter print. Bake in a quick oven. FRENCH BISCUITS—No. 1. Beat up three eggs, add half a pound of sifted loaf- sugar, half a pound of flour, half an ounce of ground coriander seeds, and knead together ; cut out in little shapes, and bake. Beat np the white of an egg, and when you take the biscuits out of the oven spread it over them; sift sugar over, and return to the oven to crisp.CAKES AND SMALL PASTRY. 2G2 FRENCH BISCUITS—No. II. Take three eggs, beat the whites and yolks separately, stir ia by degrees three ounces of flour, and same of sugar, with an ounce of minced orange peel; beat up together, and drop on cartridge paper. Bake them, and when cool, pack in a box for use. SHREWSBURY BISCUITS—No. I. Mix two pounds of flour and one pound of sugar ; beat up four eggs, and mix them with a cupful of cream and a few drops of rose water; knead all together, roll out thin, and cut out into small biscuits. Bake in a quick oven. SHREWSBURY BISCUITS—No. II. Mix four ounce!! of lard or butter and four ounces of \)af-sugar in twelve ounces of flour; rub well together ■with the hands; (mix one tea-spoonful of ammonia with the flour first;) add two eggs well beaten, roll out thin; and cut into small biscuits, dust over with sugar roughly broken, and a few minced almonds. SHREWSBURY BISCUITS.—No. III. Mix two pounds of flour and one pound of sugar, and rub well in twelve ounces of butter; add two beaten eggs, a few carraway seeds, and butter-milk enough to make it into a stiff" paste. Koll out thin, and cut out into biscuits. Bake in a rather quick oven. ROCK BISCUITS. Mix two pounds of flour, one ounce of ammonia in powder, and twelve ounces of raw sugar; rub in with the hands six ounces of butter. When well mixed in, add a263 CAKES AJSTD SMALL PASTRY. few currants, and butter-milk sufficient to make into a paste. Butter cheese cake pans and fill them half full, making them quite rough on the top. ORMSKIEK BISCUITS. Rub into two pounds of flour three quarters of a pound of butter; add one pound of sugar, and the same of treacle. Season with mixed sweet spice. BUTTER BISCUITS. Weigh two pounds cf flour, rub into it four ounces of butter, and two ounces of i-aw sugar; mix one cupful of good fresh yeast in a cupful of warm water, stir it in, cover up, and let stand by the fire all night. Next morn- ing, work in a quarter of an ounce of powdered ammonia; knead togethei-, and make up in small biscuits. Prickle them, and bake in a quick oven. ABERNETHTY BISCUITS. Warm in an English pint of milk four ounces of butter, weigh three pounds of flour, and mix with it four ounces of sugar and one of carraway seeds. Mix all together, and knead until quite tough. Roll out and cut into biscuits. Prickle and bake them. CRACKNELS. Mix very well with the hand three ounces of butter, two pounds of flour, and four ounces of sugar, and make into a paste with seven eggs ; work very well together, and cut into small shapes. Have a pan of boiUng water ready, and plump the cracknels in by degrees, so as not to throw the water off the boU. When they come to the204 CAKES AND SMALL PASTRY. top they are ready. Throw them into cold water for two houi's, wipe them dry, and bake them. BATH BISCUITS. Rub three ounces of butter in two pounds of flour, half a pound of' raw sugar, two ounces of powdered ammonia, and two eggs. Make into a paste with cold water, glaze with egg, and bake immediately after cutting out with a notched or fluted cutter. POTATO CAKES.—FoK Tea. Boil potatoes, and mash them very well, sprinkle in a little salt, and flour enough to make them into a dough; while the potatoes are hot, knead up as quick as you can. Make them up in round cakes, and roll them quite thin. Prickle them with a fork, and bake them on a hot girdle. CREAM CAKES. Weigh one pound of flour, and mix with it a very little salt; mix one well-beaten egg with one tea-cupful of cream, and make the flour into a dough with it. Roll it out pretty thin, cut out into small cakes, with a lid or biscuit cutter, and bake on a hot griddle. TEA BISCUITS. Mix well with one pound and a half of flour, eight ounces of bu+ter, the same of sugar, four well beaten eggs, and a tea-spoonful of ammonia; knead together and make into small biscuits. ARROWROOT BISCUITS. Warm one ounce of butter in a tea-cupful of milk; weigh out and have ready, in a basin, half a pound ofCAKES AND SMALL PASTRY. 265 flour, four ounces of arrowroot, a tea-spoonful of baking powder, four ounces of sugar, one beaten egg, and a few drops of essence of lemon; knead all together into a smooth paste, roll out very thin, cut out into small bis- cuits, prickle and bake tkera. WHEAT MEAL BISCUITS. Mix what quantity of meal jo\i want with water into a dough, as in making oat cake; cut them into round biscuits, and bake them well. AMEEICAN BISCUITS. Mix half a pound of sugar with one pound of flour, half a tea-spoonful baking powder, and rub in four ounces of butter; make into a dough with warm milk, roll out thin, cut them out, and bake immediately in a quick oven. RICE BISCUITS. Mix very well, with half a pound of rice flour, half a pound of sifted loaf sugar, four eggs (yolks and whites beaten separately), season with essence of lemon; pour on a baking tin buttered, and stamp out into round cakes; or, heat the tin, butter it, and drop them on it; they will take a round form. PLAIN TEA BISCUITS. Weigh one pound of flour, mix a little salt or sugar with it, melt two ounces of butter in one tea-cupful of boiling milk, and make into a stifi" dough; cut the dough in pieces, so that when made up and rolled out each piece will be the size of a crown. When all done, roll them out quite thin; prickle and bake in a moderate oven, 2 LCAKES AKD SMALL PASTEY. 266 SODA SCONES. To every pound of floiir give one half tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda, and the same of cream of tartar; make it into a dough with very sour butter-milk; knead quickly, make it up in small round balls, roll out pretty thin, prickle them with a fork, and bake immediately on a hot griddle or in the oven. A little butter rubbed amongst the flour may be added if wanted richer, and a few currants. TEA WAITRS. Mix with one pound of flour a little sugar, a beaten egg, and a cupful of cream; knead it quite smooth, roll out as thin as possible, cut out with a small lid, and fire them on the griddle. When done, roll and tie them with thread to keep them in shape; when cold untie the thread and place them neatly on your bread-plate. CEUMPETS. Mix with one pound of flour one tea-spoonful of baking powder and a little sugar; make it into a thin batter, with either sweet or butter-milk; beat together a few minutes, and pour a tea-cupful at once into a hot frying-pan, with a little lard melted in it. CRUMPETS.—No. II. Weigh a pound and a half of flour, rub down half an ounce of German yeast, with a little sugar and water; pour a pint of warm milk over it, and let it stand to settle ; strain it amongst the flour, stir it well, and put in a warm place to rise. When well risen, add another pint of milk, with a little salt and two well beaten eggs; set it aside in a warm place to rise again. Heat theCAKES AND SMALL PASTRY. 267 frying pan, rub it with a piece of butter, and when the batter has risen sufficiently, pour a tea-cupful of the bat- ter into the pan, without stirring the mixture. As soon : as it is set, turn it quickly over with a slice; lay them as they are done on a clean cloth, and cover them with ; another. Toast them when to be used. MUFFINS. Weigh three pounds of flour, dissolve one ounce of i German yeast, strain it, and add it to the flour with a ] pint and a half of warm milk and water. Mix well, and 1 beat it a quarter of an hour. Cover it up, and keep it in 1 a warm place to rise; when well risen, cut it in pieces the ! size of a walnut, roll them out thin, and bake on a hot I plate, taking care that they do not brown in the least. YORKSHIRE MUFFINS. Weigh two pounds of flour, and mix with it (prepared 1 as above) half an ounce of German yeast, and half a pint (of mUk; stir well together, and put it to rise in a warm ] place covered; when well risen, melt two ounces of but- Iter in another half pint of milk, add a tea-spoonful of i salt, and two well-beaten eggs. Beat the dough fifteen 1 minutes, and make it up in balls; roll them well amongst I flour, and lay them on a tray covered with a woollen (cloth, well dusted with flour. Put them down near the I fire to rise for half an hour, and bake quickly in a hot (oven. NUT CAKES. E,nb four ounces of butter in half a pound of flour, and I make into a paste with milk; fry in lard a nice brown;268 CAKES AND SMALL PASTRY. sift a little sugar over them, after they are well drained from the lard; or they may be baked on the griddle. COFFEE CAKES. Mix a tea-spoonful of baking powder and four ounces of sugar in one pound of flour; rub in half a pound of butter, and add two well beaten eggs and warm milk, enough to make it into a paste. Knead it together, and make it quite smooth; roll out very thin, and cut it in pieces, two inches long and one inch wide. Bake them on buttered tins; they will keep a long time. OAT CAKE. Put four table-spoonfuls of oatmeal, with a little salt, a pinch of carbonate of soda, and a small bit of dripping, into a small basin: pour a little boiling water over it, sufficient to make it into a dough; knead it quickly, and roll out very thin. Bake the one side on a griddle, and the other an a cake toaster before the fire. Proceed again making only one at a time. They are sometimes made very thick, and keep a long while; when made with the finest oatmeal, and rolled very thin, they are very nice. ICINGS FOR CAKES AND PASTRY. ALMOND ICING. Beat to a snow the whites of six eggs, add to them one pound and a half of gi-ound loaf-sugai- and one pound ground almonds bitter and sweet; whisk until quite thick, aud spread over the cakes or pastry.269 ICINGS FOE CAKES AND PASTRY. ALMOND PASTE. Blanch and dry half a pound of Jordan almonds, and an ounce of bitter almonds ; pound them in a mortar with a spoonful of orange flower water, and four ovmces of sugar ; it should be rubbed through a sieve ; heat it in a small sugar pan, stirring it continually, until it is so dry that it will not adhere to the pan; mix it with the white of an egg, six ounces of sifted sugar, and flour sufficient to make it into a firm paste. ALMOND BISCUITS. Blanch and mince half a pound of Jordan almonds; dry them; put them into a dish with a quarter pound of sifted sugar, a sjjoonful of flour, two eggs, and two dozen drops of essence of bitter almonds or orange flower. Mix them all into a paste, oil a baking tin, or heat and rub it over with white wax, spread the paste all evenly over it rather thin; when half baked, cut it out in small round, oval, or diamond shapes; return them to the oven to become sliglitly browned. They might be cut out and baked in small pattie pans of various shapes, and kept as cases for serving sweets or dried fruits for dessert. NOUGAT PASTE. Nougat is a mixture of dried almonds and sugar, boiled without water, until the sugar is almost dry, and used for making small baskes or moulds to hold sugar, hon hons, or sweets for dessert; it is much cheaper to purchase them when wanted, besides, it wastes a great deal of time making them ; there are also a great many fancy knick- nacks that are quite superfluous, and shall not be included as recipes.270 ICINGS FOB, CAKES AST) PASTKY. SUGAR ICING WITHOUT EGGS. Put into a small enamelled saucepan lialf a pound loaf- sugar, a Httle lemon juice, and half a cupful of water. Boil until quite tHck, and u.oe it as the preceding. SUGAR ICING. Take an earthenware basin, break into it two whites of eggs; beat them with a wooden spatula, and add to them one pound ground loaf-sugar, and when well beaten a pinch of tartaric acid. When quite thick pour it over your cakes, and keep it in a warm place to become hard; add a Uttle more sugar to the icing to make it stiff, and ornament to taste with it through a squirt. (This must be seen done.) PINK ICING. The same as above, coloured with cochineaL ICING FOR PASTRY OR CAKES. Beat the whites of eggs to a snow, spread it over cakes, tarts, or small pastry that has just been taken from the oven, dredge a little sifted loaf-sugar over it, and return it immediately to the oven to harden; this cannot be too quickly done. LEMON ICING. Flavour sugar icing with lemon essence. CHOCOLATE ICING. Put half a pound loaf-sugar, half a cupful of cold water, and a small pinch of tartaric acid into an enamelled sauce- pan. Bruise a dessert-spoonful of chocolate, stir it in and boil together a few minutes, or until the syrup is quite thick. To be poured over pastry or cakes.271 HOUSEHOLD BREAD BAKING. THE OVEN. A brick-built oven is the proper oven for household bread. Many of the houses now building in Scotland are having brick ovens constructed. The iron ovens attached to kitchen ranges, cooking stoves, &c., are not suitable for baking thoroughly fermented bread; and yet it is wonder- ful how with care and proper management good and palatable bread may be produced. If such should be the only kind j'^ou have to work with, the writer would recommend an entire lining of fire brick, and the oven lighted with thick pieces of wood while using it; wood fuel is most suitable for built as well as iron ovens. Always have the oven well heated before putting in the bread, and keep it at a regular heat all the time. (note.) The following recipes may appear tedious, they are not so in reality, a little patience and perseverance will over- come the seeming difficulty. Tuesdays and Fridays should be the days set apart for this duty, and it would not occupy very much time in its performance. FERMENT FOE BREAD.—No. I. Half an ounce of hops, a few sliced apples, four spoon- fuls of treacle, one quart water, and three quarters pound of flour; boil the hops and apples in the water twenty minutes, strain ofi" the liquor, add to it the treacle and stir in the flour. Cover lightly, and set it in a moderately warm place till fermentation takes place, which will be in a few hours.272 HOUSEHOLD BREAD BAKING. FLOUR YEAST—No. II. One pound of flour and four ounces of brown sugar, a little salt, and two gallons of water, boil together one hour. Let stand till milk warm. Pour it into stone bottles and cork it close. It will be fit for use in twenty- four hours. One pint of this wUl make eighteen pounds of bread, and an ounce of baking powder mixed thoroughly amongst the flour would improve it. YEAST—No. III. Boil two ounces of hops in four quarts of water half an hour. Strain through a hair sieve, and when it is mUk warm put in two table-spoonfuls of salt, and half a pound of brown sugar. Beat one pound of flour with some of the liquid till smooth, then mix all well together, and let stand two days in a warm place. On the second day boil and mash three pounds of mealy potatoes, let them be quite smooth, stir them amongst the above ingredients. The next day strain and bottle for use. It will keep two or three months in a cool place. BREWERS' YEAST Is procured from the brewery, and is best from the second or third brewings. The manner in which it is to be used will be shown in the recipe for makmg bread with "brewers' yeast." HOUSEHOLD BREAD—(With Bbewers' Yeast.) Weigh fourteen pounds of flour, mix atable-spoonful of salt amongSt it, and an ounce of baking powder, (if you please); mix thoroughly, take a large breakfast-cupful of good yeast, and two of warm milk; put as much as the half of273 HOUSEHOLD BREAD BAKING. tlie flour into a large basin of earthen-ware. Make a hole in the flour, pour the milk over the yeast slightly warmed; stir into the hole in the flour with a wooden spoon, taking in all the flour gradually, except a rim of flour round the edges; it must be the consistency of batter. Sprinkle a little flour over the top, and place it by the fire covered with a woollen cloth till morning. A tin screen is very convenient, and more suitable than setting it by the fire. Those who possess this should use it. The "setting of the sponge," as it is called, should be performed the last thing at night. Early in the morning knead the re- jnainder of your flour amongst the dough, adding a little warm milk if necessary to moisten it. Make it up into loaves, let .stand to rise an hour and a half, and bake them. Earthenware pans are the best kind to use; but if you have not them tin pans will do. Slightly butter the pans or dust them well with flour. You will know when the bread is done, by its being well risen and the crust hard. When the loaves are removed from the oven, brush them over the top with water to glaze them, or put a small piece of butter into a muslin cloth, and rub them over with it. It gives the loaves a more inviting ap- pearance. BREAD WITH FERMENT.—No. I. Make the bread as in previous recipe, but instead of yeast, double the quantity of ferment. BREAD WITH FLOUR YEAST.—No. II. Make as jjreviously, using a large breakfast-cupful of the yeast and an ounce of baking powder, mixed very thoroughly amongst the flour. 2 M274 HOUSEHOLD BREAD BAKING. BREAD WITH GERMAN YEAST. "Weigli fourteen pounds of flour, mix one ounce of salt thoroughly amongst it; warm two quai-ts mUk, bruLse three ounces nice fresh German yeast with part of it, add the rest gradually, and knead into a firm dough; let it be placed covered up to rise in a warm place two hours. Make it up into loaves, and bake at once. Water will do instead of milk, if milk is thought too extravagant. UNFERMENTED BREAD. For every pound of flour take two tea-spoonfuls of "Mackay's Baking Powder," and half a tea-spoonful salt; mix very well with the hand, and press through a hair sieve. Pour cold milk or cold water over it, mixing well with a spoon just enough liquid to make it into dough that will not stick to your fingers. Dust baking pans with flour, and bake immediately. This bread is close grained, but very light and of easy digestion, and most suitable for bilious persons, as yeast bread invariably sours on a weak stomach. RICE BREAD. Wash and pick one pound of Carolina rice, put it into a pan of boiling water, more than will cover it; simmer twenty minutes; by this time the rice will have absorbed the water and be comparatively soft. Take one breakfast- cupful of good yeast, stir two of warmed milk amongst it, stir it amongst the rice, and add flour to it, kneading it well with the hands until it is a good fii-m dough. Make it into loaves, and set it in a warm place to rise; when well risen bake in the usual way.275 HOUSEHOLD BREAD BAKING. BREAKFAST ROLLS. "Warm an ounce of butter in a tea-cupful of milk, add two table-spoonfuls of yeast and a little salt; stir this mix- ture into two pounds of flour, let it rise an hour, knead it well, divide it into four ounces, make them into oval shapes, draw a knife aci-oss them leugthways, and bake immediately in a rather quick oven. BREAKFAST ROLLS. Take what quantity you require for roUs from your bread sponge in the morning. Make it into a rather soft dough, but still that you can handle it without adhering to your fingers, mixing the flour thoroughly with a little baking powder, and let them remain to rise by the fire for three quarters of an hour. Having made them into small round or oval shaped roUs, dust the baking tins with flour a nd bake. DINNER ROLLS. The above may be made suitable by the addition of a im all piece of butter, and baked in round roll pans; ras ped over the top when done. SODA BREAD. One pound of flour, one tea-spoonful of salt, one half tea- spoonful carbonate of soda, and rather less tartaric acid or cream of tartar. Mix these ingredients very well, and make into a dough with butter milk; dust the pans with flour, and bake immediately. A little butter may be added at pleasure. This composition makes very good dinner rolls.276 HOUSEHOLD BHEAD BAKING. WHEATEN MEAL OR BP.OWN BREAD. This bread is considered the most nutritious of any; it is the wheat meal exactly as it is ground, and unmixed with other floui', mixed with a little salt, and made as other bread. LUNCHEON ROLLS. Rub well with the hands three ounces of butter into two pounds of flour, the flour baring been mixed with two tea-spoonfuls of baking powder. Make this into a batter, with a cupful of good yeast, and two of warm nulk; let it stand to rise an hour. Beat well the yolks of three eggs; stir this amongst the batter with one table-spoonful of sugar. Put them into small dinner roll pans, having slightly buttered them, and let them remain near "the fire to rise three quarters of an hour, before baking them. PRESERVED FRUITS. PINE APPLES.—Ln Slices. Pare the pine apples, and cut them in thin slices; put one pound of sugar, and one table-spoonful of water, to each pound of apples; boil for half an houi-, and set them aside till the following day; then put them on to simmer till they are tender and clear. PINE APPLES.—Wholk. Preserve the green leaves, and a piece of the stalk of the pines, prickle them all over with a fine silver skewer, place them in an earthenware dish, and cover them with a thin syrup of sugar and water, cold; let them remain inPRESERVED FRUITS. 277 this twelve liours; drain them from the syrup, and boil it until quite thick, simmer the fruit in it until quite clear; jar it, pour the syrup over, and when cold, cover up securely from air. PRESERVED ORANGES AND LEMONS.—Whole. Cut with a pen-knife any neat device, such as stars, diamonds, etc., on the outer rhinds of oranges or lemons, rinse out the pips by cutting a small piece, the circum- ference of a sixpenny piece, from the stalk end, lay them in strong salt and water twelve hours, wash, and lay them in fresh water a few hours, simmer them in syrup until quite clear, and jar for use. Although seldom served out at table, they are useful as an ornamental dish, and look pretty. PEACH JAM. Pare the fruit, and stone it, put it into a jar with four pounds of sifted loaf-sugar to six pounds of fruit, let it remain twelve hours, when the sugar will be dissolved; boil it quickly, stu-ring it frequently; add before taking it from the fire the strained juice of two lemons and half of the blanched kernels; from twenty minutes to half an hour should be sufficient time for it. NECTARINE AND APRICOT JAMS. Nectarine and apricot jams are made in the same manner as peach jam. It is thought that the flavour of the fruits arepreserved more by putting the one half of the sugar over the fruit at first, and the other half a few minutes before removing them from the fire. PINE APPLE JAM OR MARMALADE, Pare the fruit and slice it, pulp it through a wide wired278 ' PRESEBVED PEUITS. sieve^and for every pound of fruit add fourteen ounces of gugar; boil it until quite clear and transparent, stirring it all the while. Stop« fruit of any kind may be made into marmalade or jam, in the same manner, by removing the stones and skins. LEMON MARMALADE. Marmalade from lemons may be made as orange mar- malade, but is much more expensive, and not in common use. The one half of the skins only are used. LEMON SWEETMEAT.—German. Put into a clean enamelled sauce-pan, half a pound of sweet fresh butter, half a pound of sifted loaf-sugar, the grated rhind and juice of three large lemons, and the beaten yolks of three eggs ; stir over the fce quietly until thickened. It must not boil, else it would be curdled. MAGNUM BONUM PLUMS. Weigh four pounds of fruit and four pounds of sugar, put one tea-cupful of water to each pound of sugar, stir tiU the sugar is dissolved; meantime pour boiling water on the plums, and let them remain till the skins will peel off; boil the sugar and water with juice and the rhind of a lemon for a quarter of an hour, skimming it weU; simmer the plums till clear, then pot them for use. DAMSONS. Wipe the damsons; two pounds of sugar to six poimds of fruit; set them in a cool oven till they are thoroughly warm but not broken; when taken out of the oven, di-ain the syrup carefully from them, and set it on the fire, add-PRESERVED FRUITS. 279 ing one pound of sugar; let it boil ten or fifteen minutes, and then pour it hot upon the damsons, repeat the boil- ing of the syrup twice. GKEEN GAGES. The plums should be quite sound and not quite ripe; prick them with a needle six or seven times about the stalks; put them immediately into cold water, or they will become black; scald the plums, drain the water from them, and place them carefully in an earthen pan; pour the boiling syrup over them, and let them remain till the next day; boil and skim the synip and pour it over them; repeat this twice, then drain it from them; add to it the remainder of the sugar; boil it half an hour, and when skimmed pour it over the fruit. The syrup in which the plums are to be scalded should have half a pint of water to one pound of sugar. Orleans plums may be done in the same way. CUCUMBERS. Take cucumbers (the largest possible and most free from seeds), put them into a broad jar, in strong salt and water, with a cabbage leaf over them; cover, and set them in a warm place till they turn yellow; then boil the salt and water, and pour it over them, repeating this daily till they are green; then wash them in clean water, and set them over a slow fire in fresh water, with a small piece of alum pounded fine, a large cabbage leaf under, and another over them, till they just boil; take them ofi" the fire and let them remain till cold, then cut them in two and take out the seeds and soft pulp carefully; put them in cold spring water, and let them remain two days,PRESERVED FRUITS. 280 changing the water each day, to take out the salt; then wipe them with, a clean cloth till quite dry, and put them into syrup made in the following manner :—To three pounds of sugar allow three pints of water, and an ounce of the best white ginger scraped and sliced; and to each pound of cucumber one lemon, the rhind pared very thin, and cut in shreds like straws, the juice squeezed out and strained into the syrup when boiling. Boil it till pretty thick, add the cucumbers, and boil gently fifteen minutes. MELONS. Preserve melons before they are quite ripe, in the same • way. Vine leaves are preferable to cabbage leaves, if they can be obtained. PEACHES. Wipe them with a clean dry cloth, place them in an iron-stone jar, with half their weight of powdered loaf- sugar sprinkled over them, and cover with British brandy. Set the jar in a pot of boiling water, cover the jar quite close, and simmer them a few minutes. When quite cold tie a bladder over the jar, and keep for use. TO PRESERVE APPLES AND PEARS. Take any nicely flavoured apples or pears, pare and core them very smoothly, leaving the stalks on the pears. As you do each one, throw it into salt and water; let them remain in it twenty-foiir hours. Wash them out of it, and let them remain a few hours more in cold fresh water; wipe them very dry. Have a syrup made of one pound of sugar, a breakfast-cupful of cold water, and the grated rhind and juice of one large lemon. When pretty thick281 PKESERVED FRUITS. put one row of apples or pears at a time, and do them very slowly until quite clear. This quantity of syrup will do for a dozen apples ; they may be done in slices, and look very beautiful eitner dried or served in the syrup. PEESERVED APRICOTS. Fill a jar with the apricots, not over ripe, give them theii- weight of powdered loaf-sugar sprinkled over them as you fill the jar, pour a very little water over them, and set the jar in a pan of water to come slowly through the boil. Skim, and remove immediately when it comes a-boil; then cover the jar and allow it to stand over till next day. Put it on the fire in the same manner, and repeat it once more. When quite cold, tie a skin over it, and put aside for use. NECTARINES AND WHITE PEAR PLUMS Are done in the same way. Cherries, strawberries, rasp- berries, and rhubarb, can be done nicely in the same manner. If properly managed, the fruit will keep perfectly whole. This is a much better way than always pouring off the syrup. TO DRY PRESERVED FRUITS. Take what quantity you want out of the syrup, lay them on a sieve to drain, sift fine crystallised sugar over them, and dry them in a cool oven. STRAWBERRY JAM. The strawberries must be gathered when qitite dry, the day on which the jam is to be made; weigh the fruit, and add its full weight of powdered sugar. Put the one half 2nPRESERVED FRUITS. 282 of the fruit into the preserve pan, put the sugar over it, lay on the rest of the fruit, and let it remain so for two hours, to dissolve the sugar before putting it on the fire. BoU for twenty minutes over a nice clear fire; prove it by cooling a little of it on a plate before potting it. RASPBERRY JAM Is made exactly as strawberry jam. A pint or two of red currant juice is sometimes added. PLUM JAM. Take an equal weight of sugar and fruit, wet the sugar ■with very little watei', and bring it through the boil; skim it, and put in your plums; when boiling skim again. BoU twenty minutes. Take off as many of the stones as you can, and pot the jam. DAMSON JAM Is made in the same way; as also peach, apricot, nectarine, gooseberry, rhubarb, cherry, and apple jam. DAMSON CHEESE. Put two pounds of damsons and one pound of sugar into an ironstone jar; set them in a pan of water, or put them in the oven. They must be boiled for a long time tmtil quite thick, and the juice boiled in. Pick out the stones, break them, pound the kernels, add them to the fruit, and pot or put into small moulds. Cover with bladder, and keep for use. BLACK CURRANT JAM. Allow weight for weight of sugar, pick the ben-ies from the stalks and cut off the little black top with scissors;PRESERVEB FBUITS. 283 melt the sugar over the fire with very little -water; boil together about twenty minutes. Pot and cover in the Bsual way. BED CURRANTS Make a very,good jam done as the black currants. BLACKBERRY OR BRAMBLE JAM Is made as raspberry. RED CURRANT JELLY. Pick the fruit from the stalks, and heat it in your pre- serving pan; bruise and stir it while heating with a wooden spoon; let the juice drain through a sieve; give a pound of sugar to every pint of juice. Skim very well, and boil gently a few minutes. As much boiling deepens the colour, it is a good plan to observe when it has boiled ten minutes, and then take it from the fire. Pour a little on a plate and set in a cold place for a few minutes; if it seems to be thickening, pot it at once j if not, boil it ten minutes more. VmiTE CURRANT JELLY. Make it as red currant jelly. The juice of white rasp- berries is an improvement WHITE CURRANT JAM. Strip the currants carefully from the stalks, and boil with their weight of powdered loaf sugar for twenty minutes, removing the scum carefully. WHITE RASPBERRY JAM Is made in the same way as red raspberry jam.PRESERVED FRUITS. 284 BLACK CURRANT JELLY. Pick the fruit from the stalks, and clip off the tops; ■weigh an equal proportion of sugar and fruit; melt the sugar with very little water, or lay it amongst the fruit for a few hours. Stir it until it comes a-boil, skim it, boil twenty minutes, and pot. Cover in the usual way with thick paper or skin. APPLE JELLY. Wash, pare, and cut up the apples; more than cover them with cold water, and simmer three quarters of an hour; strain it through a jelly bag. Give one pound of loaf sugar to an English pint of juice; boil slowly twenty minutes, and pot for use. GREEN GOOSEBERRY JELLY. Gather the berries when half ripe, cover with cold water, and proced with them the same as with apple jelly. RASPBERRY AND STRAWBERRY JELLY Is made by pressing the fruit in a cloth, and boiling the juice with its weight in sugar, in the same way as other jellies. MOCK GINGER. Pare and core as many apples as are wanted; cut them in small thick pieces, and put them in salt and water twenty-four hours; soak them in fresh cold water a few hours, wipe them quite dry, and boil till quite clear in a syrup made thus:—For every pound of apples bruise four ounces of ginger, and half a pound of loaf sugar; instead of putting the apples into salt and water, the one-half of the sugar may be put over the apples twenty-four hours, then285 PRESERVED FRUITS. poured off (whicli will have melted), and a syi'upmade with it, and the other half of the sugar made as above. Infuse the ginger in a jar, and keep it by the fire ; simmer very gently for several hours; strain it and add the sugar, and a little more water if necessary. You will requ.ire an Eng- lish pint of water to every half pound of sugar. "When the syrup has boiled for some time, and is pretty thick, pxit in the apples, and boil till clear. The grated rhind and juice of a lemon is an improvement. The young shoots of lettuce and carrots are often done as mock ginger; and the stalks of cauliflower or rhubarb does very well also. ORANGE MARMALADE—No. I. Pare the rhind of the oranges as thin as possible, cut it with scissors very small, tie it in muslin, and boil slowly till quite clear. Peel off the white inner rhind, and break the oranges in pieces; cover them with water, boil three quarters of an hour, and strain through a flannel bag; add the half of the skins, and boil twenty minutes, taking off" the scum; pot it, and tie skins over when quite cold. Allow one pound of sugar to a pint of the juice. ORANGE MARMADALE—No. II. "Wipe the oranges with a coarse cloth, and take off the skins in four quarters; throw them into a pan of boiling water, and boil them till clear; scoop out all the white inner rhind, and cut the peel in very thin stripes ; break up the oranges with your hands, and press the pulp and juice through a coarse sieve; add the cut skins, and their weight of sugar; boil about twenty minutes. The properPRESERVED FRUITS. 286 quantity of sugar can easily be ascertained by weigHng the basin before filling it, and weighing the whole after- wards. ORANGE MARMALADE—No. III. Boil the oranges whole in plenty of water two hours, take off the skin, and cut it in stripes as fine as possible, mash up the oranges, pick out tie pips, and put the mashed pulp and skins in the water in which the oranges were boiled, allowing double weight of sugar. Boil half an hour. SMOOTH ORANGE MARMALADE. Rub the skins of the oranges very well with a coarse cloth; grate the yellow outer rhind only into a basin of cold water as you do it, to prevent its becoming dis- coloured. Boil it an hour; press the pulp and juice of the oranges through a coarse sieve, add the grated rhind, and give the weight of sugar. Bod about half an hour. One lemon to every pound of oranges is an improvement to this and the previous recipes for marmalades. OBSERVATIONS ON MAKING PICKLES, &c. GENERAL REMARKS. Although most people are fond of pickles, they ought to be very sparingly partaken of, as they are considered rather indigestible. Alarming discoveries have been recently made of deleterious substances being employed in the manufacturing of pickles, such as copperas for green- ing, and an acid used in the form of vinegar, which is very well known to be capable of destroying human Life ; itPICKLES, ETC. 287 becomes the duty of the careful housewife to make her own pickles and vinegar also. The following recipes will guide her in doing something to suppress this great crime; it cannot possibly be called by any milder name. They are perfectly harmless so far as the ingredients are con- cerned, nothing artificial being used in their preparation. If the green pickles loose their colour, as they will invari- ably do if kept for any length of time, it is of little consequence if the pickles are good otherwise. Never put your pickles into other than the best ironstone jars, or glass bottles. When you want your pickles, take them out with a wooden spoon for the purpose, with holes in it, and instead of going every day to the jar, and thus spoil- ing them by the admission of air, fill a bottle out of the jar for use, and be very particular in keeping them well covered with the vinegar, and well preserved from the air in a dry store closet. TO PICKLE RED CABBAGE. To pickle red cabbage, cut off the outer leaves, and cut out the iimer hard part of the cabbage, slice them across in thinnish slices, lay them in an earthen basin, and sprinkle salt over them as you lay them in ; in twenty-four hours drain them on a willow sieve. Procure the best pickling vinegar, as much as will cover whatevei- quantity you are making, when the salt water is well drained from the cabbage, wipe it with a cloth, and put it in an iron-stone jar. Mix together for two cabbages, half an ounce of whole Jamaica pepper, the same of black pepper, and cloves, and an ounce of bruised ginger; sprinkle them over the cabbage as you fill the jar. A bottle and a half of vinegar will be sufficient for this quantity. Bring itPICKLES, KTC. 288 a-boil, and pour it over the cabbage, covering it with a plate. When quite cold, cover with a bladder; shake up the jar occasionally for a month, without taking off the cover, when it will be fit for use. BEETROOT. Great care is necessary in the washing of it: if the smallest portion of the skin or fibres are broken, the colour will be gone. When washed put them into boiling water; boil an hour; when cold, scrape and slice them, put them in an earthenware jar, with a small muslin bag of spices, consisting of bruised Jamaica pepper, black pepper, a few cloves, and cayenne pepper pods; cover with cold vinegar. Pickle a few at a time, as they are apt to lose their colour ; keep them if you purchase a quantity, in a box amongst earth for use, and pickle as you want them, they are so easily made. BEETROOT AND ONIONS —No. I. ' Peel and slice two pounds of middling sized onions ; have a pan of boiling salt and water ready, plump them in for one minute, drain and dry them immediately in a cloth; have ready boiled and sliced as above two beets; add the onions, cover them with cold vinegar, and a bag of spices. BEETROOT AND ONIONS.—No. II. Boil and slice two large beets ; take the skins off two pounds of small pickling onions, throw the onions into boiling salt and water for one minute, drain them well and wipe with a soft clean cloth; put them into an earthenware jar, mixed with the beetroot, and a muslin bag of spices;PICKLES, ETC. 289 cut out the beet after sHcing it in shapes with a fluted biscuit cutter. Grated horse-radish is sometimes added, and beetroot is often lilved unspiced, boiled in the usual way, sliced, and cold vinegar poured over it, and is sometimes simply spiced "with carraway seeds. BEETROOT AND CAULIFLOWER. Break up in small bunches two cauliflowers, cut off all the coarse stalks, put them into a clean earthenware basin with a handful of salt sprinkled over them, cover with a plate, and in twelve hours drain in a willow sieve; boil one bottle of vinegar with three blades of mace, one ounce of black pepper, half an ounce of Jamaica, and one dozen cloves; when come a-boil add the cauliflower, in oue minute pour it in your jar, with two beets boHed and sliced; cover up, and in a week it may be used. PICKLED ONIONS, ESCHALOTS, AND GARLIC. Procure the smallest pickling onions; as you skin them throw them into cold salt and water; steep them in this a few hours, drain and dry them; put on to boil as much vinegar as you think will cover them, with white pepper- corns, and a few blades of mace. The mace is sometimes objected to. A few cayenne pods may be added. (Use white wine vinegar). CAULIFLOWER OR BROCOLL Do them the same as directed for mixing with beetroot. CUCUMBERS AND ONIONS. Pare and slice an equal quantity of cucumbers and 2 oPICKLES, ETC. 2Q0 onions; strew a little salt over them, and in a few hours drain them; bring as much vinegar through the boil with a few mixed spices as will cover them. When cold cover ■with bladder. FRENCH BEANS. Gather them quite young (white runners are reckoned the best); have water boHing with salt and soda, plump the pods into it for one minute, drain and wipe them dry; bring a-boil as much brown pickling vinegar as you think will cover them; put your beans into a jar, and pour the vinegar over them; when cold cover. GREEN GHERKINS. Do the gherkins the same as French beans. INDIA CRESS—(Called Nasturtium Buds.) Pickle as above. CUCUMBERS—No I. Boil them in salt and water, with a little soda for one minute; drain them, wipe them dry with a clean cloth, cut them lengthways in eight pieces, cut them across, put them in a jar, and pour over them boiling vinegar, vnth spices in it. CUCUMBERS-No. II. Pare and slice them about one quarter of an inch thick, sprmkle a little salt over them for a few hours; di-ain them, pQur cold vinegar over them, spiced or unspiced, according to taste. MELON MANGOES. Mangoes are pickled when unripe, and brought from the East Indies. They are imitated by pickHng small unnpe melons. Cut a sUce about one inch from the top, not291 PICKLES, ETC. quite through, leaving it hanging by the rhind, like a hinge to a box lid; scoop out the seeds with a marrow or egg spoon; fill the fruit with an equal quantity of mustard, seed, ground ginger, and two or three cloves of garlic; sew down the lid, and make the pickle thus:—To every quart ofvinegar take half an ounce of salt, flour of mustard, curiy powder, ground ginger, turmeric, cayenne pepper, two ounces of eschalots, and half an ounce of sliced garlic; rub the spice with a spoon in a basin with a little of the vinegar, and when the rest of the vinegar is boiling, stir it in; pour it over your melons boiling hot into a jar. When cold cover with skin. PEACHES. Put them in an earthenware basin, and sprinkle salt plentifully over them; in a few hours drain them. When the salt water is pretty well drained, put them in your jar. Cover them with the following:—Take what vinegar you think will cover them, for every bottle put half an ounce of made mustard, half an ounce of mace, cloves, and- nutmeg, one ounce of ginger; bring the vinegar with the spices through the boil; pour them over, and when cold tie sldn over. Api'icots and large white plums are done in the same way; the fruit must be pickled just before they begin to ripen, and the stones may be removed if liked better, PICKLED MELONS. Foe Roast Vekison, Veal, Mutton, or Habb. Pare and slice your melons when just ripe, remove the seeds, and sprinkle them with salt, let them remain so for292 PICKLES, ETC. twelve hours; -wasli tbem in cold water, wipe them; make a syrup by boiling sugar and vinegar together until it is a strong syrup; pour it over them when quite hot, and when cold cover the jar with skin. One pound of sugar to one bottle of vinegar. WALNUTS.—Black. They must be pickled when at their full growth, but before they begin to harden; put them in salt and water a day and a night; drain them out of that and steep them for the same time in fresh water; wipe them and half fill your jar. Take a large onion, stick it all over with cloves, slice a little horse-radish, half an ounce of whole black pepper, the same of Jamaica pepper, an ounce of mustard seeds, and a few bay leaves; put them into your jar, and the rest of your walnuts over the spices; boil as much vinegar as will cover them, and when cold cover with skin. WALNUTS.—Green. Pare your walnuts as thin as possible, putting them into salt and water as you do them; in twenty-foiu- hours pick them out and put them in a. stone jar, with vine leaves over every row of nuts, and at the bottom and top. Cover them with cold vinegar, and in eight days pour the vinegar off them. Pick out the vine leaves, boil the vinegar and pour it hot over them, with a good handful of salt and a few mixed spices. WALNUTS.—White. Choose large walnuts and pare them until the white appears, putting them in salt and water as you do them; in six hours take them out of the salt and put them into293 PICKLES, ETC. a preserving pan with fresh water; let them simmer five minutes with a light wooden cover to keep them amongst the water. Have a basin of water, with a handful of salt dissolved in it; lift out your nuts with a wooden pickle spoon into the salt and water; lay the wooden board over them as before (unless this is attended to the nuts will become black); in two hours take them out and dry them with a clean soft cloth; put them in your jar with a few blades of mace and sliced nutmeg. Cover with white wine vinegar, and tie a skin over as usual. The liquor from walnuts makes very nice ketchup after the walnuts are used. RADISH PODS. Boil and skim salt and water; put in your pods and boil three minutes; drain them a few hours, put them into a jar, and pour boiling vinegar over them, with black and Jamaica peppercorns, and a few cloves. Cover in the usual way. PICKLED LEMONS. Slit them, but not quite through, from the top to the stalk end; stuff them with salt, and sprinkle them over with it; turn them every day and ladle the liquor over them for a week. For one dozen lemons boil as much vinegar as will cover them, with two ounces of black and Jamaica peppercorns, the same of bruised ginger and mustard seeds; pour in boiling over them. They keep for a long time. PICKLED MUSHROOMS. Cut ofi" the stalks from small button mushrooms ; wet a piece of flannel in water, wring it, dip it in fine salt,194 PICKLES, ETC. and clean the mushrooms. As you do them put them in salt and water. Drain and put them into a stew-pan, with a handful of salt over them ; more than cover them with white wine vinegar and a muslin bag of spices. Boil five minutes, put them into pickle bottles, and when cold cork and seal them up. PICKLED MUSHROOMS.—No. II. "Wash and dry the mushrooms 3 bottle them ; infuse a nutmeg, and a few blades of mace, also black and Jamaica pepper with a few cloves, in vinegar, an hour. Slice the nutmeg ; pour them over the mushrooms, with as much cold vinegar as will cover them. TICKLED MUSHROOMS.—No. III. Wipe the mushrooms with a moistened flannel cloth, and fine salt ; jar them, allowing to every quart of mush- rooms, an ounce of salt, an ounce of bruised ginger, half an ounce each of black and Jamaica peppercorns, a bay leaf, the rhind of a small lemon pared very thin, and a glass of sherry. Put the jar covered in a pot of boiling water, to simmer four hours. Cover them with cold vinegar, and when through the boil take them from the fire ; bottle them, and cork very close ; tie skins over. IMITATION WEST INDIA PICKLES. The ingredients are white cabbages, cauUflowers, onions, apples, carrots, turnips, celery, and cucumbers, with s]uces. Pick off the outer leaves of the cabbage, and slice it, break off the cauliflowers in small bunches ; skin two pounds of small pickling onions; cut in inch lengths the inner295 PICKLES, ETC. stalks of two bnnclies of celery; pare and slice the carrots and turnip, and cut them into notched stripes with a fluted biscuit cutter ; pare the apples, and cut them into eight pieces lengthways, removing the cores. Have two long cucumbers, cut them lengthways in four, and then in inch lengths. Have a pan of water boiling with a good quantity of salt in it. Put the whole of the vegetables in it, and boil for one minute; ■ drain them instantly ; put a clean cloth over the sieve, and let them drain twelve hours. Put them into your jar. Take two ounces of fresh curry powder, the same of mustard flour, one ounce of ground white pepper, and make them into a quite smooth paste, with a little vinegar; boil two bottles of vinegar, stir the spices in when boiling, and pour over the pickles. Stir them up to mix well; put a plate over the jar, and next day cover with skin. In three months begin to use them; the longer they are kept, the better they become. ARTICHOKES. Gather young artichokes as soon as they are formed; boil salt and water, and throw them in one minute; drain and dry them, put them in jars, and cover with cold vinegar. PICKLED CHERRIES. Pick the cheiTies from the tree before they begin to ripen, or with a faint tinge of pink; leave a small piece of the stalk on ; cover them with salt a few hours; infuse a blade or two of mace, with a few white peppercorns, and two or three cayenne pods in vinegar. Strain it into as m'uch cold vinegar as will cover the cherries, and bottle them; cover in the usual way.296 PICKLES, ETC. TO MAKE VINEGAR. . To every gallon of water, put one pound of coarse sugar; boil and scam it well, pour it into a tub or large open vessel of some kind. Toast a thick slice of bread, soak it iu yeast, and when cold add it. Let it stand some time to work. Pour it into a cask, and keep it in a warm place. It will be fit for use in four months; cover the bung hole with muslin. VINEGAR—No. II. Boil four gallons of rain water, with four pounds of molasses; scum it well; pour it into a cask, and place it in a warm place. When cold add a breakfast-cupful of yeast. In ten days add a sheet of writing paper dipped in molasses, to form the "mother or life of the vinegar." GOOSEBERRY VINEGAR. The gooseberries must be quite ripe; bruise them well, and to every quart of pulp put five pints of cold water; let it remain two days, stirring it up every day; strain it through a sieve, aud afterwards through a flannel bag; to each gallon put one pound and a half of good moist sugar; when the sugar is dissolved pour the vinegar into a cask or large stone jar, and cover it quite close. MUSHROOM KETCHUP. Procure the large flap mushrooms; break them all in pieces, and put them into a dry clean earthenware jar, with plenty of salt over them. Place the jar in a pot of boiling water, and let them simmer two hours ; strain through a hair sieve. Measure the juice, to every quart of which allow an ounce of whole black, and half an ounce of Jamaica peppercorns, with six cloves, and one blade ofPICKXES, ETC. 297 mace. A little cayenne may be added, if liked very spicy; boil for twenty minutes. When quite cold bottle it, the smaller the bottles the better, as when a lai-ge bottle is opened, it is apt to be spoiled before you can use it all, (A glass of wine may be added, in each bottle ; it is an improvement.) WALNUT KETCHUP. Pound the walnuts in a mortar with salt over them; cover them with vinegar, and let them remain in it until quite black, stirring them frequently; poar over them a bottle of table-beer and boil fifteen minutes; strain it next day, pour it quite clear from the sediment, and boil it half an hour, with a head of garlic bruised, half an ounce of nutmegs sliced, the same quantity of cloves and black pepper, and a little mace; run it through a flannel bag, and when cold bottle it. Those who like may add a glass of poi-t; but it is not necessary, STORE SAUCES, cfec. SALAD CREAM. Take the yolks of three fresh eggs, whisk them up very light; mix with them one ounce of made-mustard, half a tea- spoonful of cayenne pepper, the same of salt, an ounce of salad oil, and half a pint of good vinegar; shake them all together, and bottle for use. SALAD CREAM. Bruise the hard boiled yolks of three eggs with a little cream; add one tea-.S23oonful of sugar, two of made-mus- 2 p298 STORE SAUCES, ETC. tard, a very little cayenne, white pepper, and salt; make it into the consistency of thick cream with vinegar. INDIAN CHUTNEE—No. I. Pare and core eight ounces of nice acid apples, eight ounces of tomatos, eight ounces of Malaga raisins stoned, four ounces of red chillies, four ounces of ground ginger, two ounces of garlic, eight ounces of brown sugar. Pound all together in a mortar, afterwards mix with it one bottle of vinegar, the jiiice and grated rhind of a large lemon, and a little salt; bottle it, and shake it every day for a month. A spoonful of it in stews is a great addition to the flavour. CUEKY VINEGAR. Mix two ounces of curry powder in a quart bottle of vinegar. FRENCH SALAD VINEGAR. Three ounces each of eschalots, sweet savoury, chives, and tarragon, two table-spoonfuls of dried mint leaves, and the same of balm; pound them together in a mortar, put them into a small stone jar; fill up with strong white wine vinegar; cork it securely, and let it stand a fort- night exposed to the sun. Run it through a flannel bag, and bottle for use. INDIAN CHUTNEE-No. II. Peel and slice four good sized ripe melons, (or the same quantity of large white plums skinned and stoned); put them into a jar placed in a pot of boiling water; simmer them until quite soft. Stone four ounces of Malaga raisins, pound them in a small mortar, and add them to the pulp, with a tea-cupful of vinegar, a dessert spooniulSTOEE SAUCES, ETC. 299 of ground cassia buds, an ounce of cayenne pepper, the pulp and grated rhind of a lemon or orange may be added. Mix them very well together, and keep either in a jar or in wide mouthed bottles for use. PIQUANTE SAUCE—No. I. Mix together one tea-cupful of Indian soy, one of port wine, one of vinegar, one of ketchup, and one dessert- spoonful of cayenne pepper j shake them well together, and bottle for use. A little of this sauce is a great im- provement to some stews. PIQUANTE SAUCE—No. II. Mis together one cupful of port wine, the same of lemon pickle, and half the quantity of essence of ancho- vies, add two ounces of minced eschalots, two ounces of scraped horse-radish, a quarter of an ounce of bruised celery seeds, one ounce each of Jamaica and black pep- percorns, a quarter of an ounce of cayenne. Let them stand in a jar well covered up for two months; strain and bottle it for use. PIQUANTE SAUCE.—No. Ill—For Steak. Bruise one ounce each of black and Jamaica pepper corns; grate half an ounce of horse-radish; mince a few onions, put them into ajar with a pint of ketchup; let it stand a month, shaking it occasionally, then strain and bottle it. SHARP SAUCE.—For Roast Beef or Mutton. Mince a small cucumber and an onion very fine, add a wine-glassful of Madeira, and one of vinegar, with a tea- spoonful of cayenne pepper; add a little salt, and bottle for use.300 FLAVOURED VINEGARS. HORSE-RADISH. Sciape six ounces of horse-radish; pour one bottle of ooiling vinegar over it. When cold, bottle it, and in a month strain ; it is then ready for use. GARLIC VINEGAR. Pour over fotir ounces of garlic, one bottle of cold vine- gar; in a month bottle it. ESCHALOT VINEGAR. Is made the same as garlic. CELERY VINEGAR. Slice into small pieces some fine fresh celery, for two bunches take two quart bottles of vinegar (half this quan- tity serves a long while), a tea^spoonful of cayenne, the same of salt, and a few peppercorns ; boil slowly fifteen minutes; pour it into a jar, and in two months bottle it. CUCUMBER VINEGAR. Made the same way. OAYENNE-VINEGAK Is made by merely steeping cayenne in cold vinegar seve- ral months, straining it afterwards, and bottling for usa MINT VINEGAR. Fill up your bottles with good fresh mint; put one table-spoonful of sugar into each bottle; fill in as much vinegar as the bottle will hold; in a month strain and bottle for use.FLAVOURED VINEGARS. 301 TARRAGON VINEGAR. Made as the mint, omitting the sugar. These vinegars are very convenient to have in store for flavouring sauces, salads, <kc. OYSTER KETCHUP. Beard one hundred fine large oysters; pound them in a small marble mortar; strain their juice, and add one pint bottle of sherry, one ounce of salt, half a tea-spoonful each of cayenne and ground mace. Whenever it comes through the boil rub it through a sieve, and when, cold bottle it. TOMATO KETCHUP. Squeeze the tomatos with the hands; sprinkle them plentifully with salt, and let stand twenty-four hours. Drain them, and boil the juice for half an hour with (for one dozen tomatos) an ounce of black and Jamaica pepper- corns, half an ounce of mace, garlic, and mustard-seed ; strain and bottle when cold. It is delicious with roast meat, and adds much to the richness of soups and stews. ESSENCE OF MUSHROOMS. Sprinkle salt over the mushrooms ; let them remain so one night; mash them, and next day drain the moisture from them ; boil it until reduced about one half; it does not keep long. LEMON BRANDY. • Half fill mde-necked bottles with the rhinds of fresh lemons; fill the bottles with British brandy. In a month strain and bottle for use. Jt is used for flavouring sweet dishes.FLAVOURED VINEGARS. 302 MUSHROOM POWDER. Clioosc large mushrooms, peel and cut oflf the sterns^ spread them on a large ashet, and dry them slowly in an oven. "When done, put them in jars (or paper bags which is better), pound them, and add a little mixed spice. SWEET HERB POWDER. Dry thoroughly when in season, one ounce each of lemon thyme, sweet marjoram, basil, and lemon peel; also two ounces of parsley. To dry the lemon peel you mtist take it oS the lemon in two halves. Dry and grate off the outer rhind; pound all together when quite dry; sift and bottle them for use. The refuse is used in making soups. Dry also mint, common thyme, and sage, and keep them in separate bottles for savoury flavouring. HOME MADE WINES. GINGER WINE. For two gallons of water give six pounds of sugar, the rhind and juice of six large lemons, one pound of muscatel raisins, and half a pound of fine ginger bruised ; boil together half an hour ; pour it into a cask ; when nearly cold add a tea-cupful of good yeast, and one ounce of isinglass. Stir the wine every day for a fortnight; when the fermentation stops bung it up, bottle it in two months, and keep it for one year before using it. BLACK CURRANT WINE. Mash one gallon of ripe black currants in a large earthenware crock, pour a gallon of boiling water over303 HOME MADE WINES. them, and in two days strain the juice througli a sieve, and tlien througli a jelly bag, into a jar that will just hold it; the jar must be quite full. Having added one pound of loaf-sugar and a bottle of rum or British brandy, when fermentation has ceased (which you can easily discover from the hissing sound having ceased), bottle it oS. The longer it is kept the better it becomes. EED CURRANT WINE Is made the same as black currant wine. SPICED ELDERBERRY WINE.—No. I. Pick the berries from the stalks; for a gallon and a half of fruit pour over them one of boiling water; stir them well and let them remain so till the next day, pour the liquor through a hair sieve, and boil it half an hour, with two pounds of sugar, one ounce of bruised ginger, half an ounce of cloves, skimming it well. When nearly cold, pour it into a jar that will just hold it, with one table-spoonful of yeast. When feitnentation has ceased, bottle it. ELDERBERRY WINE.—No. IL Gather the berries when quite ripe ; squeeze them with your hands, and drain the juice from them; add a pint and a half of water to every pint of juice, and half a pound of sugar. When nearly boiling, whisk in a few whites of eggs with their shells, and boil ten minutes ; strain through a jelly bag; fill the jar quite full, and fill it up as it sinks in fermenting ; when this has stopped bottle it, and keep it six months before using it.304 HOME MADE WIKES. RASPBERRY VINEGAR. For everj pint of raspberries (which should weigh two pounds), pour one bottle of white wine vinegar, let them boil gently ten minutes ; strain through a jelly bag ; give one pound of loaf-sugar to every pint of juice ; boil ten minutes, and sciim it well. When cold bottle it. BLACK CURRANT AND STRAWBERRY VINEGAR Is made the same as the raspberry. The blacli currants require bruising. LEMON SYRUP. Break in small pieces two pounds of loaf-sugar; pour a pint of cold water over it; put it on to boil with the juice of six large lemons, and the rhind pared very thin ; boil till the syrup is nice and thick ; pick out the rhind and bottle for use. LEMON FLAVOURING. Pare the rhind as thin as possible from two large lemons; put them in a quart bottle ; fill with white wine vinegar, and keep for use. CAPILLAIRE SYRUP. Melt one pound of sugar with half a pint of water j boil until it becomes a nice thick syrup; flavour it strongly with orange flower water. RAISIN WINE. Tout one gallon of boiling water over four pounds of fine new muscatels that have been well braised in a mortar ; let it stand a week, stirring it up occasionally ; strain it through a jelly bag, and jar it, with the addition of one bottle of rum or British brandy. When fermentation hasHOME MADE WINES. 305 ceased' bottle it, taking care to leave the sediment. The longer it is kept, the better it becomes. CHERRY WINE. Bruise the fruit, break the cherry stones, and pour boiling water over them, let them stand for a week, stirring them up occasionally; strain through a sieve, and then through a jelly bag. For one gallon of juice, give one pound of sugar, and a pint of rum or British brandy; jar it, and in a month bottle it. Gooseberries, rhubarb, or grapes, are made into wine in the very same way as directed for red and black currant wine. CHERRY BRANDY. Half fill quart bottles with fine ripe Morella chemes; put two ounces of sifted loaf sugar over them, and fill up the bottle with brandy; British brandy is suitable for this purpose, and is only half the price of foreign. NOYEAU. Weigh one pound of bitter, and one pound of sweet almonds, and three pounds of sifted loaf sugar. Pound the almonds to a fine paste, with part of the sugar ; put them into a jar and pour one gallon of gin over them. Let them remain ten days, and filter through blotting paper, and bottle it. CURACOA. Peel the rhind from two large lemons for each bottle ; put into a quart bottle, with one pint of strong Scotch whisky. In a month take out the lemon peel and fill up the bottle with thick sugar syrup; cork tightly in three days; add in each bottle a very little powdered alum, and carbonate of potash, and in a week it is fit for use 2qHOME MADE WINES. 306 ORANGE WINE. Pare the rliind of twelve Seville oranges, and press the pulp and juice through a v/illow sieve ; in a week pour over them three quarts of boiling water; strain them in the usual way, first through a sieve, and then through flannel. Pour it into a gallon jar that will just hold it; over two pounds of sugar, and one bottle of rum. Let it ferment for a month, and stop it up. Bottle it in six months. SPRUCE BEER. Warm eight bottles of water; pour it over two pounds of molasses; stir it well, mix in an ounce of cream of tartar, and two breakfast-cupfuls of yeast; when cold, stir all together again. A large open vessel is the proper thing to use for it; in twenty-four hours it is fit for use. Bottle it in stone bottles. GINGER BEER. Put one gallon of water on to boU in a very clean pot; when it boils add twelve ounces of sugar, two ounces of bruised ginger tied into a muslin cloth, and two ounces of cream of tartar; stii- well together ; pour the whole into an earthen pan ; cover it with a cloth, and let it stand till quite cold. Stir in a tea cupful of yeast; mix thoroughly, and let it remain so for six to eight hours. Remove the scum very carefully, and lift with a tea-cup, and fiU it into stone bottles; cork them securely down, and keep in a cool place. Fasten the corks tightly down with string. It •wiU be ready for use in a few days. LEMON SHERBET. Grate the rhinds of six lemons; boil it in six quarts of water, with one ounce of bruised ginger and tlnree pounos307 HOME MADE WINES. of loaf sugar, for one hour; squeeze tlie juice of the lemons, and when the sherbet is cold, add it; strain and bottle itj it is then readj for immediate use. If wanted effervescing, stir into a tumbler of it one quarter tea-spoonful of carbon- ate of soda. GINGER SHERBET. Put into a jar half a pound of muscatel raisins minced, two ounces of fine ginger bruised, and the rhind and juice of two lemons, and two pounds of loaf sugar; pour four quarts of boiling water over them; let it remain twenty- four hours; strain it through muslin, and when cold, bottle it. LEMONADE. Pare the rhind very thin from a large lemon; press out the juice with lemon squeezers; and put it, with the rhind, into a jug, with two ounces of loaf sugar; pour over one quart of boiling water; cover up, and when cold, strain it; if wanted to effervesce, put a quarter of a tea-spoonful ot carbonate of soda in the tumbler when you drink it. ORANGEADE. Pare the rhind from twelve nice juicy St. Michael oranges; infuse it with boiling water; break up the oranges; having stripped them of the white inner rhind, cover them with two quarts of water; simmer them half an hour, and strain through a jelly bag; put the juice, with the infusion and two pounds of loaf sugar, in a preserving pan; when boiling, take off the scum; let it simmer a few minutes, and when cold, bottle it. It is for immediate use; not intended to keep.308 MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES FOR ECONOMICAL COOKERY. The recipes throughout already given are aU on econo- mical pi'inciples; the following recipes are even more strictly so. The roasting and baking of butchers' meat is the least economical method of preparing it, and should only be cooked in this way occasionally, especially where strict economy has to be taken into consideration. PEA SOUP. . Soak one potmd of yellow split pease in cold water all night; put them on the fire, with four quarts of cold water, four minced cuions, one large grated carrot, a tea-spoonful of white ground pepper, and simmer gently three hours, stirring occasionally; add when done one dessert-spoonfiil of salt; toast a slice of bread, and cut it in.small squares; dish the soup, and place the toast on the top of it in the tureen. This wholesome diet, so far as it has gone, costs less than sixpence, and only requires the addition of bread to render it a substantial forenoon diet for six or eight persons. (Consult also Pea Soup, in former recipes, for more expensive methods.) BEEF BROTH. Take four pounds of hough; take out the marrow; put the piece of meat whole into your soup pot; put over it four or five quarts of water and one half pound of barley and pease; let it simmer very gently four hours; take outECONOMICAL COOKERY. 309 the meat, and add to tlie soup four large leeks washed very clean and chopjjed up into small pieces, large grated carrot, a little pepper and salt; simmer another half hour, and serve. This, with bread, is another good forenoon meal. As hough meat is dry eating, cut it all up in pieces, mince it very fine, season it nicely; add a minced onion and a little gravy from the top of the broth pot; stir it over the fire, and let it remain until the onions are cooked; thicken the mince with flour, and have nicely boiled potatoes to serve with it. Thus a hearty and sat- isfactory meal is provided for the working man and his family,—two days' dinner for the cost of one shilling and eightpence or two shillings at most. ANOTHER ECONOMICAL WAY OF USING UP HOUGH MEAT, From which Broth or Soup has beeiN made. Boil an ox foot, which is to be had cleaned from the butcher, and which will cost sixpence; boil it in water four hours, or until the meat has left the bone; strain it, and put the gravy aside till cold; take the oil from the top of it; mince the meat very fine, as also the hough; put them, with the gravy, into a pot, and add a tea-spoon- ful of white pepper, one also of Jamaica, and four of salt; stir and let simmer a few minutes; taste it, and if not seasoned enough, add a little more; put it into wetted moulds, to be turned out when cold. What to do with the oil and marrow,—Melt them in a saucepan; add a little pepper and salt and keep it for use for frying fish. Keep the bones until you collect a number, they always bring something. Wash them with cold water before putting them aside, to prevent a disagreeable smell.j^lO ECONOMICAL COOKERY. PAN BROTH OR GREEN KAIL. Put two quarts of cold water and one table-spoonful of good dripping into a soup pot; when it boils add four stocks of German greens, cleaned and chopped up; stir in two table-spoonfuls of oatmeal, and simmer half an hour, stirring occasionally, add a little salt. RICE SOUP. Put four quarts of water, with a good marrow bone, and foiir large onions minced, to boil; add a large grated carrot, and in two hours add half a pound of rice. Patna, or what is called broken rice, is the cheapest; stir occa' sionally, and add a handful of chopped parsley leaves; before dishing, take out the marrow bone. Cost of this meal sixpence. SOUP FROM BEEF SKIRT. This is rich meat, and most economical, if properly pre- pared; it is sold much cheaper than steak, and can be used in the same way; wash it very clean, and soak it in cold salt and water a night; cut all the skin from it, cut it in small pieces, and put it on to simmer in three quarts of water three hours; skim the fat from it, and add four minced onions, a grated carrot, a little chopped parsley, with pepper and salt to taste; pare and cut up six pounds of potatoes, add them, and simmer gently till the potatoes are quite done. This is an excellent soup. HOW TO COOK THE MEAT OF THE SKIRT. Cut it in two, slice the one half and stew it very gently, indeed two hours, slice a few onions, add pepper and salt to taste, a small carrot and a piece of turnip grated; also,311 ECONOMICAL COOKEBY. four pounds of potatoes pared and sliced; simmer very gently another hour, when, on turning it out, you will have a nice savoury Irish stew. A Boiled Puddins from the Other Half of the Meat. Cut it into small pieces, and season it nicely with pepper, salt, and a minced onion if liked; line a pudding bowl with pudding paste; having greased it, fill in the meatj fold the paste over it, tie it in a cloth, and place it in a pot of boiling water, and boil it quickly three hours, adding water to the pot if necessary; put a little water over the meat before closing the paste over it. PUDDING PASTE. Take four ounces of flour, and the same of grated bread; crumble amongst it four ounces of dripping; add a little salt, and make it into a paste with boiling water, (For other soups, which may be classed amongst the present economical recipes, see in the beginning of the book. Mutton Broth, Beef Broth, Sheep-head Broth, kc; also Fish Soup, when fish are to be had cheap.) OX HEAD. You can procure a whole, or lialf head. Cut off' the best slices from the cheek, which will make a nice stew, pie, or boiled meat pudding; put the head after breaking it all up on the fire in a large stew pan, with five quarts of water over it; let it simmer very gently three hours; take out the head, pick the meat from the bones, and return them to the pot with a turnip and carrot, a few onions and parsley; simmer together another hour; strain it, and add the meat, cut in small312 ECONOMICAL COOKEEY, pieces, pepper and salt to taste j bring through the boU and serve as soup. SHEEP AND CALF'S HEAD. Sheep head may be potted, made into broth, or made into a pie; calf's head the same, and are most economical- Yoimg calf's heads are sold from sixpence to ninepence' (See Index for former recipes; see also Tripe, Scotch Haggis, and various other cheap recipes.) SHEEP'S PLUCK. This is the lights, liver, and heart. Clean them thoroughly by washing and soaking them in cold water, cut away the wind-pipe and parboil the lights and heart, and mince them; add a breakfast-cupful of the gravy that has boiled, then having skimmed it well; add a few minced onions with a little pepper and salt; when boil- ing, thicken with a table-spoonful of oatmeal or flour; slice the liver which has been kept raw, fry it with di-ip- ping, taking care not to scorch it, but let it be done quite through : serve the hash as one dish and the fried liver as another. OATMEAL PUDDING. Mix with one and a half pounds of oatmeal two tea- spoonfids of white pepper and four of salt, with half a tea-spoonful of ground Jamaica pepper, and half a pound of minced mutton suet; mix very well together; moisten with a little water; tie it in a cloth, leaving room to swell, and boil two hours. STEWED BEEF STEAK. Either roll up the steaks or cut them into square pieces;ECOirOMICAL COOKERY. 313 cover tbem witli water, season tliem with pepper and salt; make a few balls, as oatmeal puddings or small pudding, made of pudding paste, and stew them with the meat gently two hours. This method is economical. MINCED COLLOPS. ■ Add to one pound of minced beef half a pound ot grated bread and flour mixed;- season nicely with pepper, salt, and a few parsley leaves ; work them together and make them up into round flat cakes the size of the month of a tea-cup; fry them in dripping until nicely browned on both sides. OATMEAL PORRIDGE. There are very few individuals in Scotland who do not know how to make them, still it does hapjien that they are not well made. When the water boils put handful after handful of oatmeal to the boiling water, until you find that it is thickening, put in salt to taste, and let them boil gently half an hour, stirring them occasionally; then pour into soup plates or small bowls; sweet, skim, butter- milk, or whey is served with them. ANOTHER METHOD. Bruise in a basin what oatmeal you think will be re- quired with cold water, as in bruising starch; have the water boiling in your pan, stir the meal into it until it is boiling again; add a little salt, and boil as previous recipe. Buttermilk or whey may be substituted for water in making porridge. Wheat meal is made as oatmeal, but requires longer boiling, and is considered very wholesome. 2 KECONOMICAL COOCERY. 314 Barley and wheat flour are made into porridge the same as above. HASTY PUDDING OF PEASE FLOUR. Put two table-spoonfuls of pease flour into a quart basin, sprinkle a little salt among.st it; add a small piece of butter, and pour boiling water from a tea kettle, stin-ing it quickly until quite smooth. Sweet miUc is served with it. By consulting the previous recipes every thing that is useful in the way of cheap puddings, &c., wiU be found, as also the proper manner of cooktug vegetables and roots. TO INFUSE TEA AND COFFEE, AND TO PREPARE CHOCOLATE AND COCOA. TEA. Scald the infuser with hot water and dry it; put for each individual one tea-spoonful of tea, more if wished stronger, and let it stand by the fire closely covered without the water for ten minutes, then cover it with boUing water, let it remain so for ten minutes more, pour it into the teapot, and add what boiling water you require. By this method the aroma of the tea is effectually brought out, and the house filled with a delicious perfume. Good congou tea, with a slight mixture of orange pekoe and a little green, make a delightful mixture; when infused in a silver teapot it must immediately be covered with a woollen cloth, or put under a hood such as is placed on the table; an earthenware infuser is the best.315 ECONOMICAL COOKERY. COFFEE. Moclia coffee is the best; two ounces is about the quantity for one large coffee-pot; the coffee pot is fitted with a small muslin bag which contains the coffee, and boiling water poured over until the coffee is quite covered with it; if in a silver pot, cover it up as in infusing tea, ANOTHER METHOD. Scald with boiling water and dry your coffee-pot, which must be a tin one; put in the usual quantity of coffee, and let it remain uncovered on a hot plate or stove; stir it and make it quite hot before pouring the boiling water over it; let it come through the boil and remain to settle by the fire for twenty minutes, and pour clear off. For preparing coffee by the percolator, printed direction!! are given when purchasing it. Law's Edinburgh coffee has been long famous and still carries the palm. When pur- chasing coffee buy chicory also, and mix them according to taste. Law's coffee can be purchased from all respect- able grocers. CHOCOLATE. Scrape an ounce and a half of chocolate, more or less, according to taste, and pour boiling milk or water over it, or half and half; stir it until quite dissolved, and when boilins remove it from the fire and let it remain ten minutes before using it. COCOA. Prepare it in the same manner as chocolate.316 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS* This subject is one tliat is fearfully neglected. It is one on -which great ignorance is felt, and however much care and anxiety is experienced by well meaning indi- viduals -when the medical attendant prescribes this and that description of carefully prepared food or refreshing beverages, it is distressing to all parties when the pre- scription cannot be fully attended to. The following recipes will perhaps assist, although it may be in a small measure :— GRUEL FROM THE FLOUR OF OATMEAL. Put three table-spoonfuls of the finest oatmeal into a large basin ; pour hot water over it, stirring all the time* as much as four breakfast-cupfuls of water; let it stand a few minutes to settle; pour it clear of the grounds, and pour it into a very clean pan ; add to it two table-spoon- fuls of sugar, and let it just give one boil up to take off the rawness of the flour; pour it into a hot water jug. It remains with the physician to say whether a little wine >r a few drops of lemon juice would be safe. This gruel *The Writer would recommend every lady to purchase a copy of Miss Florence Nightingale's excellent and experimental work on the Sick CSiamber ; a work expressly devoted to these duties, is by far more useful than trusting t? mis- cellaneous directions on this most important subject. A work on Domestic Medicine, by Dr. Gardiner, of Edinburgh, would be found useful, although the personal attendance of a thoroughly qualified medical man is more satisfactory^ Application to medical works are often resorted to with a view towards economy, and is often found, in woeful experience, to be the most expensive in the end. A few simple remedies may be suggested where medical advice might really be considered of no importance.317 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. may be taken cold as a jelly, and is sometimes acceptable. Black currant jelly or red is sometimes added. WHEATMEAL GRUEL. Wheatmeal is used for gruel, and made the same as oatmeal gruel. BARLEY GRUEL. Soak four ounces of best barley over night; boil it in three pints of water very gently two hours, and strain it; add sugar and what seasoning is allowed (if any). RICE GRUEL. Wash and pick four ounces of rice ; put it on the fire in a stew pan with one quart of water; let it simmer gently half an hour; strain it; sweeten and season if necessary. SAGO GRUEL OR JELLY. Soak two ounces of sago a few hours ; add water to it sufficient to make it into a thin jelly; sweeten it, and stir it over the fire until quite clear; a small piece of fresh lemon rhind may be added, but taken out again, and a little wine if allowed. TAPIOCA JELLY Is made as above, but requires longer soaking. CALF'S FEET JELLY. See previous recipes; made with less seasoning; with or without wine, as allowed by the doctor. RICE MILK. Boil the rice as directed for rice gruel, but with milk instead of water. If that would be too heavy for a very weak invalid, half milk and half water should be used.COOKEKY FOR INVALIDS. 318 SAGO AND TAPIOCA MILK. Make in the same way as the rice, Bweeteniug slightly, and making a small quantity at a time, as the milk would be sure to derange the stomach if the least turned. BEEF TEA. See previous recipes, being most particular about the cleanliness of the vessels used in the preparation. An invalid is most sensitive of this. BEEF TEA FOR INVALIDS. Soak one pound of nice tender juicy beef a few hours in two breakfast-cupfuls of cold water, with a tea-spoon- ful of salt; place it in a saucepan, with the water in which it was soaked ; pierce it with a fork, and press it; simmer it fifteen minutes, and strain it; when slops are prohi- hized, a small quantity of good beef tea may be poured over toasted bread. CHICKEN SOUP. Skin a young chicken, and draw it; soak and wash it; put it into a smjiU stew pan; cover it with cold water; when it boils skim it very carefully; add half a tea-spoon- ful of salt; simmer one hour; strain the gravy, wliich will be most acceptible to an invalid. Be careful in re- moving the fat from it. Pick the white meat from the fowl, mince it very iine, season it moderately with white pe[)per and salt, add to it a few spoonfuls of the gravy; stir it over the fire until it boils; pour one or two spoon- fuls of it over one half slice of nicely toasted bread with- out the crust.COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 319 VEAL SOUP. Simmer two pounds of nice fresh veal in two quarts of water, which will take two hours to reduce it one half; add one half tea-spoonful of salt, and other seasonings if de- sired ; strain it, and use as chicken soup, the veal minced and served as chicken. Rice may be added to the soup. CALF OR OX FEET. Having the feet of four calves, or of two oxen, scalded, scraped, and the hoofs removed, either at home or by the butcher, steep them in cold water a night; put them on the tire with five quarts of water, and simmer five hours; strain it; when cold remove the fat. One tea-cupful of cream, and the same of this jelly warmed together and seasoned to taste, is most nourishing for an invalid. Milk may be substituted for cream, when the stomach is too weak to bear it, and it may be sweetened or made savoury by seasoning it with salt and savoury spices. MINCED BEEF. Mince half a pound of nice juicy steak; having cut off every morsel of skin and fat, put it into a small sauce-pan, with a tea-cupful of cold water; stir it over the fire until it boils ; toast half a slice of nice dry stale bread; crumble it amongst the mince ; add a very little pepper and salt, and simmer together one quarter of an hour. FISH. "Whitings are often recommended for invalids; they are skinned and boiled, and may be given with safety, as being light and of easy digestion. A small piece of butter320 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. may be put over it if allowed; or a very little butter sauce made with milk and arrowroot or cornflour,—See Sauces. SMALL HADDOCKS Are done in the same way, if whitings cannot be had. OYSTERS—Stewed or Cold, Are often recommended (see recipes for cooking them.) They must be perfectly fresh. WHITE FISH, OB OYSTERS, IN JELLY. After boiling whitings or small haddocks, pick the meat from the bones, and cover them in small jars with nicely flavoured savoury jelly. Salmon may be done in the same manner, if allowed, either fresh or stewed. Oysters may be used in the same way, not forgetting to beard them. SAVOURY JELLY. Strain the gravy from boUed chicken or veal; add to it according to the quantity you have, as much dissolved "Extract of Calves' Feet," or isinglass, as will assist in- forming it into a good jelly ; when boiling whisk smartly amongst it the bruised shells and whites of four eggs, with seasoning to taste; cover with a woollen cloth five minutes, and pour it through a jelly bag; this may be used cold like calf's feet jelly, or hot, for which an invalid is very grateful; being quite free from all impurities, it may be partaken of with safety. TO PREPARE A CHOP OR STEAK FOR AN INVALID. Free either from skin or fat, and cook them on a fork in front of the fire, dusting them slightly with salt. WhenCOOKERY FOB INVALIDS. 321 done, serve on a hot plate immediately. This is the lightest method of cooking them. A nicely boiled dry potato as an accompaniment might be allowed, or an egg dropped into a few spoonfuls of beat potatoes, and put down by the fire to rise. A.n invalid who has been ac- customed to slops, feels very grateful for a change. INVALID MUTT01[ BROTH. Take two pounds of any lean piece of mutton ; simmer it gently with a tea-cupful of barley, and two quarts of water', two hours; add a tea-spoonful of salt. Clear it of every particle of fat. Pick and wash a few parsley leaves; mince them, and add to the soup. The mutton can be used in the family. POTTED VEAL AND TONGUE. Choose a small pickled ox tongue; soak it in cold water, boil it four hours; skin it, and clear it entirely from fat; and cut away the root. Have ready boiled, two j)Ounds of veal; pound them in a mortar; season moderately with salt and white pepper, and press the mixture into small jelly jarsj covered with melted lard to preserve them from the air. When to be used, slice very thin, and serve on a fresh water biscuit, or make it in the form of a thin sandwich. A most acceptable way of serving cold meats, is to mince the meat, of whatever kind, filling jelly moulds with it quite loosely without packing it, and pouring in nicely flavoured savoury jelly; to be turned out when cold. BUTTERMILK WHEY. Pour a tea-cupful of water or milk over two of nice 2 s322 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. buttermilk. When it has settled, strain it through muslin, sweeten it slightly. LEMON WHEY. Pour into one quart of boiling milk, the juice of one lemon. When it has curdled, strain and add a little water; if too acid sweeten slightly. WINE WHEY. Stir two glasses of sherry wine in a quart of boiling milk. When it is curdled, strain through muslin, and add a little sugar. CURD WHEY. Stir into one quart of milk, warm from the cow, two table-spoonfuls of rennet; keep it by the fire till quite set; break it up, and strain the whey from it. This without straining the whey from the curd, is u.sed very miich in summer, and veiy refreshing to an invalid, with the addition of cream and sugar. To make rennet, see Index. BLA.CK CURRANT WATER. Pour a quart of boiling water over half a pound of black currant jelly; keep it in a jug, or bottle it, and use it moderately as a drink. For lemonade, and other fruit beverages, consult former recipes under their respective heads in Index. WINE NEGUS. Put one glass of port wine, with two or three pieces of loaf sugar, into a tumbler; pour about a tea-cupful of boiling water over it. A LIGHT SUPPER DISH FOR AN INVALID. Toast half a slice of bread nicely; cut it in small square pieces; put it into a quart bowl, and pour the aboveCOOKERY FOE, INVALIDS. 323 quantity of negus quite hot over it. Add a little grated nutmeg; and cover it witli a plate ten minutes. ANOTHER. Toast bread as above; cut it in small pieces, aud pour boiling milk over it, with sugar and grated nutmeg. Rusks may be used instead of toast. TO PEEPAEE AREOAVEOOT FOR AN INVALID. Bruise one table-spoonful of genuine Bermuda arrow- root, with one breakfast-cupful of water, and a dcosert- spoonful of crushed loaf sugar; stir it over the fire until it boils; pour it into a small basin, and pour over it when to be served, a little milk or cream.—Corn flour is made as above. . EICE. Prepare rice by boiling it in water until it has burst; add a little milk, aud sweeten slightly; simmer it until quite done, seasoning it with a little sweet spice, if desired. TAPIOCA AND SAGO. Soak either tapioca or sago in water a short time; simmer them in water, stirring them all the time, until quite clear; sweeten slightly, and pour eit her a little cream or good milk over it in the basin in which it is served. lEISH MOSS. Soak the moss in cold water a few minutes; pour off the water; boil it in milk, with sugar to taste, and strain it. Season it with a few drops of essence of lemon. A COOLING DRINK. Put about half an ounce of cream of tartar, a few pieces of loaf sugar, and a small piece of fresh lemon peel, into a324 COOKERY FOB INVALIDS. jug with a quart of boiling water over it; when cold, it ia fit for use. TOAST AND WATER. Toast a slice of bread quite brown, but without burning it; cut it in pieces, and pour over it a quart of boiling ■water; cover it, and let it remain so an hour. Pour it into a water-jug through a piece of muslin. It is formed into a jelly by simmering a short time, and is_ sometimes seasoned with a small piece of fresh lemon rhind, and sweetened. Taste would require to be consulted, as seasonings are generally disliked. The late Sir John Sinclair, one of the most remarkable men of his time, made this simple drink, his dinner beverage. This seemingly inappropriate remark will be fully justified by those who have read his biography. It may be found in «' Chamber's 'Repository of Instructive and Amusing Tracts," Vol. II., Number 13, by his daughter. Miss Catherine Sinclair, a reading of which is earnestly re- commended. LIGHT PUDDINGS, CAKES, AND OMELETS Will be found in former recipes. SOOTHING SYRUPS FOR A COUGH OR COLD IN THE CHEST. SYRUP OF LINSEED, &c. Infuse two ounces of linseed, and half an ounce of senna leaves with boiling water, and let it stand by the fire a few hours, covered with a quart of boiUng water. Strain it and add to the juice two ounces of solazzie juice, whichSOOTHING SYRUPS. 325 is the purest black sugar, the same of sugar candy, or heatlier lioney, and a tea-cupful of good vinegar. Let this mixture be kept by the fire closely covered for use. A wine glassful in the morning before breakfast, and the same between meals during the day. LEMON SYRUP. BoH one pound of loaf sugar with two cupfuls of water and the juice of two large lemons ; when boiling, remove the scum, and when it has boiled into a nice thick syrup, bottle it, allowing it first to cool. VEGETABLE SYRUP. Pare and slice a nice Swedish turnip; put the slices into an earthenware jar; cover it with good vinegar, and a little water, with four ounces of sugar candy. Let it infuse a night, keeping it warm by the fire. To be taken night and morning,—a wine-glassful each time. HYSSOP TEA. ■ Infuse the hyssop in boiling water as tea; sweeten with honey, and take a glass of it several times during the day. It is said to be an excellent remedy for worms in children, as well as very soothing for a cough. CAMOMILE FLOWERS. Infuse camomile flowers, and prepare m the same manner as hyssop. OOUGH CORDIAL. Cover with one quart of boiling water four ounces of linseed, and keep it simmering very gently half an hour; strain it, and add one half pound of loaf sugar, and a pound jar of black currant jelly; put aU together into aSOOTHING SYRUPS. 320 small preserving-pan, stir it over the fire until it haa become a very thick syrup, and keep it well secured from the air. A tea-spoonful taken occasionally ^vill relieve a most troublesome cough. A SOOTHING DRINK FOR COUGHS. Take equal proportions of liquorice and marsh-mallow roots with half the quantity of linseed; slice the roots, and put them into an earthen tea-pot; pour one quart of boil- ing water over them, and infuse one hour. Strain and sweeten it with honey, if the stomach will bear it, if not with sugar or golden syrup; bottle it, and take it frequently during the day slighty heated, or at least the cold air taken oflf it. BRAN TEA. Put a tea-cupful of nice fresh bran into a very clean saucepan; pour a quart of boiling water over it, stirring it all the time; let it boil a few minutes, strain through a fi.ne sieve. Dissolve an ounce of pure gum; add it to the water, and sweeten with honey; put it into an earthen tea- pot; keep it by the fire, and drink it moderately wann. A DRINK TO PROMOTE PERSPIRATION. Stir a quart of good butter-milk over two tea-cupfuls of oatmeal; add a small piece of butter, and stir over the fire until it boUs. Drink as much of this as you can, when cool enough to drink in bed. You will find this most effectual. VARIOUS HEEB TEAS. Mint, marigold, sage, and the leaves of the black currant make excellent teas, infused and used with sugar and cream, the same as other teas. Use them, freshly gathered, as long as you have them, then dry them, and reduce them to pow- der for use.327 COOKERY FOR CHILDREN". Plain food, properly cooked, at regular intervals, and of a simple nourishing quality, is the natural food for chil- dren. jSTature itself teaches the proper treatment and food for infants ; and it is not in a work such as the present to suggest advices on this head, further than to recommend to those who may really be ignorant of how to treat and feed their children, to seek the aid and counsel of those who are quite experienced on the subject; if deprived of the blessed counsel of a mother, there is always, if pro perly sought for, some friend who wil] most willingly tender their help. "Early to bed, and early to rise," is particularly appli- cable to children. Let them be dressed an hour before breakfast. Oatmeal porridge is a most acceptable break- fast, with warm sweet milk just from the cow; a slice of wholesome wheaten bread without butter two houi-s after- wards, with a little milk. The luncheon, or rather dinner hour, should be either one or two o'clock, when animal food of a delicate kind, should be given with vegetables and bread. The minced Beef, Mutton, Veal, Chicken, Fowl, &c., in former recipes, may be given at this hour, never forgetting to give bread along with other vegetables; a slice of bread betwixt this and supper, which should consist of a cup of rather weak tea and buttered toast, or bread and milk. Children who are allowed perfect free- dom in the open air are the most easily attended to, as they are quite prepared to eat anything, their apetites being perfect. Fresh eggs, delicately cooked, with lightCOOKERY FOR CHILDREIf, 328 bread and butter, is a luxury tliey quite enjoy. All the farinaceous recipes throughout the work are peculiarly adapted to children; as also a good variety of nice light puddings. THE PICKLING AND SALTING OF BEEF, MUTTON, PORK, HAMS, AND TONGUES. The vessels used for pickling are either wooden or earthenware, with quite close-fitting lids, and must be very clean, and kept in a cold cellar. The smoking of hams and tongues are easily managed in the large towns in Scotland, by sending them to the ham cui'ers, for which a very small charge is made. In the country where this convenience cannot be had, it might be simply as well as effectually done by sweejiing the kitchen chimney, and fixing an iron rod across quite temporary, and hanging the ham on it with a strong cord, and burning a low wood or peat fire in the grate. One day's constant exposure to this smoke would be sufficient. Another way of smoking hams is to fix a ham inside an American flour barrel without the lidj light a few pieces of wood or peat, and turn the barrel upside down over it. TO PICKLE A BOUND OP BEEF. Rub it well with salt, and let it lie twenty-four hours; turn and rub it well with more salt; in twelve hours place it in a sieve to drain. For a round of twenty-four pounds weight take two ounces coarse salt, half a jjound moist sugar, and two ounces powdered saltjietre ; mix them well together, and rub it in every part; place it in your pickUngPICKLING AND SALTING. 399 tub, or earthen crock, and turn it every clay for a month, at which time it is fit for use. If you wish to dry it, rub it well when you take it out of the pickle, with a mixture of ground mixed spices and brown sugar; cover it with coarse brown paper, or canvas; and hang it up to dry; and it may be kept in a pickle made as following recipe. A GENERAL PICKLE FOR MEATS OF ALL KINDS. Boil in one gallon of water one half pound of moist sugar, two pounds of salt, and two ounces of saltpetre. When it boils scum it well; and when quite cold pour it over the meat, having rubbed it well with salt, and drained it. When the meat that you have pickled is all out of the tub, boil and skin it for future use. TO SALT BEEF FOR IMMEDIATE USE. The nine holes or flank, and the brisket are suitable pieces for salting. Rub them very thoroughly with salts and a little brown sugar; rub it with the hand, and turn it every day for eight days to soak up the brine. It may be boiled, and boiled carrots and turnips served round it; and makes nice barley broth with greens and leeks boiled in it. TO PICKLE A TONGUE. Rub it well over .with salt, and in a few days drain it from the brine, and put it to remain until wanted in the pickle, the recipe for making which is previously given. If wanted dry, when it has lain ten days in the pickle, take it out, wipe it dry, and rub it with mixed ground spice and brown sugar; wrap it in brown paper, or in canvas, and hang it up. When plainly boUed without 2tPICKLING AND SALTING. 330 drying it, a small muslin bag of pepper pease may be boiled in the water to flavour it. MUTTON HAM. Rub a nice gigot of mutton well with the hands, and plenty of salt; with a little sugar in it; repeat this, and turn it every day for ten days; put it into the pickle ten days more. It may then be boiled with or without spices in the water; and if wanted dried, rub it with dried spices and sugar, and hang it up, covered with canvass. MUTTON SALTED FOR IMMEDIATE USE. The fore quarter may be cut into suitable pieces, and rubbed vnth salt, sugar, and a little powdered saltpetre, in the proportion to one poand of salt, four ounces of sugar, and one quarter ounce of saltj^etre. Rub and turn them in the brine every day for ten days, when they are fit for use, and are boiled seiwed with vegetables, or used to make barley broth. If boiled in water alone, the gravy makes good pea soup. PORK. When the pig has been killed and hung up for a day, cut it lip into proper pieces for use. The two hind legs are generally served for making hams, and the head pickled and dried. The loins for i-oastiug, and the fore quarter cut into boiling pieces, rub them with plenty coarse salt, repeating the rubbing two days; drain all thi moisture from them, and jDut the pieces you mean to keep for boiling into your pickle, made as a recipe given for general pickle. Place the hams into another vessel, and rub them with the hands for several days, and the followingPICKLING AND SALTING. 331 mixtures :—one pound of salt, half a pound of coarse brown sugar, an ounce of powdered saltpetre, and two ouncas each of sweeb and savoury ground spices; turn them frequently, keeping them closely covered, and in a month smoke, and hang them up to dry. The head is done in the same manner. SALTED GEESE. They must be thoroughly washed, and all the inside fat removed from them, the pinions and neck ofl, and well rubbed with salt repeatedly for a day or two. Drain the moisture from them, and keep them in the pickle until wanted. They are cured and sent in barrels in great quantities to large towns from the Shetland Isles, as also barrels of beef and salted fish, butter, eggs, and other produce. TO SALT BUTTER. Wash the butter-milk thoroughly from the butter. Take ten pounds for example ; work three ounces of fine powdered salt into it with the hands ; let it remain so one .day and night. Mix together two ounces of salt, one of finely powdered loaf-sugar, and a small tear-spoonful of powdered saltpetre, work this very well together, and pack it for use in the best earthenware jars. THE DAIRY. Printed directions are quite useless ia perfecting any one in this most particular knowledge, since its proper management is the result of years of experience. If any one really wishes to understand it, the best, and indeed332 THE DAIRY. the only way, is to attend one of the large dairies, where the -whole process is seen done',—the proper animals, and the manner of feeding them ; the management of the • milk, butter, and cheese-making. It is also advisable to • receive the thorough knowledge of the poultry yard, in. the same manner. A lady has written an excellent work on this subject, entitled, "The Henwife." It impartsi great information on the subject, and to those who wish to • be well informed on this useful domestic subject, a copy of! the work is recommended. THE GARNISHING OF DISHES FOR THE TABLE. The over-garnishing of dishes is peculiarly distasteful,, and speaks loudly of vulgarity, especially hot dishes,, which are often sent to table most elaborately garnished, and often with very ridiculous materials, when the food is badly cooked, cold, and served with bad gravy or sauce. The garnishings for hot dishes should consist of what is: appropriate to be helped out with the meat. The follow- ing remarks on garnishings will show what these are:— THE GARNISHING OF HOT DISHES. FISH Is not very variable when to be served hot. Green par- sley, either fried or otherwise, sliced lemon, and pieces of lobster meat, fried oysters and shrimps, are all used in the garnishing of fish, and should be sparingly used.GARNISHTNGS. 333 ROAST BEEF Is served with its own gravy, and horse-radish scraped and strewn all over it. When presented cold the follow- intr day, the gravy, which will have become a nice jelly, is pnt round it, and a little scraped horse-radish strewn over it. STEWED BEEF Is garnished after the gravy is poured over it, with smalx beef cakes, forcemeat balls, or small suet puddings the size of eggs, put round the dish; glazed onions or raw potatoes sliced and fried, or a border of nicely mashed potatoes laid round the dish, glazed with beat yolk of egg, and browned nicely before dishing the stew. Stewed toSatoes are served also as a garnishing; mushrooms and truffles (a rangus brought from France), are used to enrich stews, or to garnish; itisprocured atthe Italian warehouses, and is very expensive. This garnishing is applicable to large as well as smaU stews. BOILED BEEF Is garnished with carrot and turnip, sliced and cut into shapes with small pastry cutters, boiled and laid neatly round the dish; Brussels sprouts, greens or cabbages chopped up when cooked, with a little butter, pepper, and salt, and laid neatly round. BROILED BEEF STEAK Is sei-ved, if garnished, with scraped horse-radish laid round the dish, or cut pickles. Fried onions are used as a f^arnish round fried steak, or fried potatoes.33-t GAENISHINGS. MINCED BEEF OR COLLOPS. Edge the dish with mashed potatoes, smoothing them nicely; cut a thin slice of stale bread; cut it in the form of diamonds or leaves with pastry cutters; fix them into the potatoes in an upright position to make the wall as deep as possible ; brush them gently over with the beaten yolk of ^oo ') brown nicely and pour in the mince. ANOTHER. Toasted sippets of bread, that is small square or dia. mond-shaped pieces, either fried or plain, placed round the dish. Plain boiled rice is suitable, and macaroni boiled and laid neatly round. ROAST MUTTON Is served with its own gravy in the dish, without gar- nishing, with a paper frill round the knuckle. BOILED GIGOT OF MUTTON Is served with the sauce over it generally, of whatever kind; if the gravy is not served over it, a paper frill is put round the knuckle, and boiled carrot and turnip, in fancy shapes, put neatly round the joint in form of a wreath, and round the dish also, with a relief of a few tufts of parsley leaves. This must be done very quickly, and in such a manner that the joint wUl be kept quite hot J unless this is attended to it is better without sax- nishing. SMALL STEWS OF MUTTON Are served with borders of carrot and turnip, either mashed together and put round, or in shapes, but are generally served quite plain. A pickled cucumber sliced, each slice335 GARNISHIKGS. cut in two, and laid round tlie disli, looks pretty, and is appropi-iate to tlie dish; as also minced pickled red cabbage or beetroot. VEAL. Roast veal is much better served plain, if a large joint, as it is served in a rich gravy; a border of good puff paste is put round the dish, if desired. The garnishing generally used is sliced lemon and parsley. BOILED OR STEWED VEAL Is served with either brown or white gravy, and the gar- nishing used must correspond ; if with brown sauce, gar- nish the veal with large fried oysters that have been dipped into beat yolks of eggs and bread-crumbed, or delicately fried small slices of bacon ; it may be fried as usual, or turned round in the form of ringlets ; or cut the bacon into stripes an inch wide and four inches long, plait them neatly and fry a delicate brown, as many as ■\\dll go round the dish, with a slice either of hard boiled egg between, or a poached egg. Forcemeat balls are also served as a garnish to veal, of eixg and liam minced. If the sauce is wliite, a little green parsley is simply laid round the dish, with the yolks of hard boiled eggs minced very fine, and strewn over the sauce. CALF'S HEAD Is garnished with brain cakes and forcemeat balls, or with sliced lemon and parsley. VEAL CUTLETS Are, when fried, sometimes garnished with' fried oysters, and served dry on a napkin, and look very pretty when336 GARKISHINGS. •well done, the only addition being a few fresh bunches of parsley. POULTRY Are garnished much the same as veal, when sent to table hot, and may be served and garnished in the same way. "ENTREE" DISHES, "When garnished, are done with great taste and care. A. very thin rim of rice round the corner-dish, whether the dish may be sUver or ware, is sometimes used, and may be ornamented simply by mincing a small piece of pickled beetroot, and dusting the rice slightly over with it. This is a pink garnish ; if there be four dishes, another dish may be done in the same way with finely minced yolk of egg; another green, with minced green pickles; keeping the fourth one white, with the addition of a few parsley leaves. Small pastry leaves are also used for garnishing. A small spoonful of beat potatoes at each corner, with a spray of parsley fastened into it; also cut small pieces of beetroot, and white of egg cut in the same manner. A border of beat potatoes or boiled rice is necessary to rest the garnish on, but there must be no more of it than what is necessary. A wreath of vege- table flowers, cut no larger than the circumference of a shilling, boiled, laid neatly round with pastry leaves, makes a pretty garnish. Curried rice is sometimes used for garnishing. CURRIED "ENTREES" Are generally sei-ved with a little rice round the dish, or quite plain. When lobsters are curried for either corner or side dishe.s, they are garnished with pieces of the337 GARNISHINGS. small claws and bunclies of the coral, ■vrith. parsley. Sliced cucumbers, halved, and laid round small dishes, look well. THE GARNISHING OF COLD DISHES. To those who dislike much garnishing a little nice fresh parsley, strewn over in small bunches, is suitable for any kind of meat whatever, and is far from being unrefined; but for company they may be, and are generally, more fully garnished. When cold fowls are carved before sending them to table, they are tied with very narrow scarlet and white ribbon, with a neat small favour of the ribbon placed over the breast, with a little parsley round the dish. Paper flowers are very frequently used both in the decox-a- tion of hot and cold dishes. The custom seems to all sensible individuals the very height of vulgarity. Some- times you will see an ornamental silver skesver fixed into the centre of a joint, with a large yellow paper or bright scarlet rose without leaves, stuck on it as an ornament. Good taste (which is always the most simple) should be displayed in decorating. If ladies would exercise their own taste and judgment on these matters, a great refor- mation would certainly take place. TO DECORATE A HAM. When cooked, and the skin removed, wipe the grease well from it with a clean cloth; trim it nicely, and glaze it with a pretty brown glaze when cold; put a nicely cut tissue paper frill round the knuckle j fill an ornamenting squirt with butter, and make a pretty border withGARKISHINGS. 338 the butter all round the ham. Cut a few vegetable flowers, make them into a bouquet with a few bunches of parsley and fasten them in the centre of the ham The dish may be decorated round the edges or not, and the ham may be dished on a napkin. They look well when nicely glazed, with a wreath of parsley leaves, and the ham slightly dusted over with rough ground ricej it is sometimes decorated with cut vegetable flowers, as a wreath round the edge, and looks beautifuL FAIRY BUTTER Is sometimes used, and is made with yolks of hard boiled eggs and fresh butter; boil three eggs, and when quite cold bruise the yolks with four ounces of fresh butter, and press it through a small tiu colander over the cold meat. It looks beautiful over a dressed salad. BUTTER BORDERS. Butter is sometimes coloured pink with cochineal, yellow with tincture of saifron, and green with spinage juice, squirted round dishes, and looks pretty as a garnish. ROUND OF BEEF AND TONGUE Are decorated the same way as a ham. VEAL Is more delicately garnished. The glaze should be of a paler brown, and it should be decorated with savoury jelly, in various colours, viz., two shades of amber and two ot pink, cut all up into small diamond shapes, and strewn over or out out with pastiy cutters, and laid methodically round the veal with parsley. It is, however, often g£ur niahed as cold salt meat.GARITISHINGS, 339 POULTRY Are garnished in the same way. VEAL AND LAMB Are frequently garnished with a nice summer salad round the dish with or without savoury jelly. Lamb is glazed as veal and mutton also. Fine brown bread-crumbs, sifted over cold meats unglazed, give a rich appearance. A PKETTY GAENISH FOR GOLD DISHES Is made by cutting four slices of lemon very thin; notch the edges, and place one slice at each side, and one at each end of the ashet. Put a row of parsley leaves round a little way from the edge. Put some chojjped pickled beetroot in the centre, and very little chopped white of egg over that. This garnish is for a side dish. Boiled rice, spread the depth of half an inch in thickness, flat on the edge of an ashet, looks pretty garnished with beetroot, parsley, and yolk of egg, all minced very fine put over the rice in a wave form; and sometimes the parsley is placed between the other two colours. SALMON, TURBOT, AND SOLES, When served cold, should be delicately glazed, and pale very clear savoury jelly, minced, and strewn over them, with parsley round the dish. POTTED MEATS Are garnished with parsley, and cut flowers may be added if desired. THE GARNISHING OF SWEET DISHES. The decorating of puddings and pastry will be found with their respective dishes in former recipes. A trifle is340 OARNISHINGS. served either plain or in an ornamental border of macaroons, souffle drops, crystallized lings, or ratifias, ftptened with thick sugar icing, or barley-sugar, in a pretty light form on the edge of the triffle dish, with barley-sugar spun all round the dish and over it. There are other highly ornamental ways of dressing them, the intricacies of wliich, even if attempted, would be a certain failure unless seen done. When jellies and creams are garnished, a few evergreens make the prettiest garoish, either quite plain, or if small bunches of box-wood are used, tip the edges of a few of the leaves with pink and white icing, or wet them witli white of egg well beaten, and dip some of the bunches in white, and and some of them in pink sugar. The edge of the crystal dishes oi'namented with crystalized rings, fixed on with barley-sugar in a light open pattern, look beautiful by gas light, the centre crystal corresponding. To boil barley- sugar for ornamenting, see Confectionery. OBSERYATIONS ON THE LAYING OUT AND SERVICE OF THE TABLE. It is unnecessary to dwell upon the propriety of hav- ing the linen, plate, and crystal in perfection, when the dinning-room is all arranged, the cloth laid, and all the requisites placed on a side table. Fii-st, place what- ever is to occupy the centre, if not an epergne, which is filled with fruit and flowei's, place the cruet stand; if for a small party. The salt cellers at corners, and along the table ; if for a large party; the knives and forks, with spoons, carving knives and forks where necessary, alsoLAYING OUT OF THE TABLE. 341 gravy spoons and sauce ladles, where required, table mats, and two or four water carafes, with, a tumbler and wine glass for each person placed at the right hand. If cham- pagne is to be served, a glass for champagne is also placed. Also z neatly folded napkin with a roll in it. Cover the side table, or the centre of sideboai'd, with a tablecloth, and place everything on it required, to prevent confusion and lea^Ting the room,—extra knives and forks, spoons, glasses, &c. Above all things, see that the carving knives are in proper order; steels placed on the dinner table for gentlemen, to prepare the knives before proceeding to carve is most distasteful, especially when ladies are present. It is a com- fort to all parties, especially to the lady of the house, when those in attendance are thoroughly qualified to perform their duties with activity, yet with calmness, and precision, and it is necessary for them to possess respectful manners. When persons of contrary dispositions are selected there is a want of order, consequently a want of comfoi-t is felt, which considerably annoys the guests, and keeps the lady in a fever of excitement, destroying the pleasure and happiness of every one. Such a state of affairs is very frequently experienced, and should be studiously avoided. When the dinner hour has arrived dish the soup or soups, and have them placed on the table—let dinner be announced. When the family or guests are assem- bled, lift the covers carefully from the tureens. In handing the plates they are presented at the left side, so that they can be taken with the right hand. Let the other course be taken into the dining room with the covers over them, placed on the sideboard, and the covers removed before placing them on the table,LAYING OUT OF THE TABLr. 342 which prevents accidents of frequent occurrence. When dessert is about to be served, if the cloth is not to be removed, brush carefully the crumbs from the table. The number of attendants must be regulated by the number at table; there ought to be just sufficient to serve comfortably to save hurry and confusion. The fashionable stlye at present is to carve and serve from the sideboard ; a printed card containing the bill of fare is laid on the table for each individual, when a choice is made, the atten- dants going round and asking each one what is wauted. This method requires more attendants. The table is more elaborately decorated, a vase of flowei-s may be placed at each end of the table, with fruit and flowers in the centre. Those waiting at table must be properly trained to carve. The cook carving so far saves time, and prevents the dishes from getting cold. (Under the heading "In- structions to the Cook" wUl be found rules for her guidance.) OBSERYATIONS ON THE PROPER ARRANGE- MENT OF DISHES, SUITABLE FOR THE TOP AND BOTTOM OF THE TABLE, ALSO SIDE AND CORNER DISHES. When only one soup (which is always the first course) is served, one dish of fish may occupy, the place opposite at the bottom of the table. When two soups are ser\'ed, the one soup ought to be white, and the other brown, mock turtle, or jullien, to make the contrast On the removal of the soup, two dishes of fish are served; one fried, and the other boiled. On their removal, two or four343 LAYING OUT OF THE TABLE. comer dishes are served, and are generally handed round, containing small stews, dressed cutlets, dressed vegetables, &c., small enough to be helped out with a spoon. If only two entrees or corner dishes are served, the sauce of the one must be white, and the other brown; if four are served, one or two of them are served with curried sauce, or with rich brown gravy sauce. Sweetbreads may be served either in a brown or white sauce, as an opposite contrast to another dish. Palates the same. Small cutlets served either with or without gravy ; fish cutlets of lobster, salmon, oyster, or any other fish, oyster, veal, or ham and egg patties ; scalloped oystei-s, scalloped veal, curried oysters, eggs, lobsters, veal, chickens, pigeons, forcemeat balls, rissoles, croquettes, small sausages, minced beef, veal, hare, or any other nice mince ; ox tails cut at the joints, and stewed, &c., (Eecipes for which will be found in their respective places.) Small quantities should be pre- pared, as they are often passed round scarcely partaken of. The next course should consist of two or four dishes according to the number of guests ; if only one top and one bottom dish is desired, they might consist of a roast of beef, mutton, lamb, veal, pork, or turkey at top, and the opposite dish boiled meat of some kind. If side dishes are necessary, the same rule must be remembered, with regard to them, the opposite dish appropriate, yet a dis- tinct contrast to the other. Yegetables may be substituted for one or two of the corner dishes, when a great many are not desired. They must be smaller than top and bottom dishes, but next in importance. Have chicken at the one side, and tongue at the other; small roll of stuffed veal, and small piece of boiled ham at the other; pigeon,344 LAYING OUT OF THE TABLE. veal pie, and oyster vol-au-vent opposite, (fee.—(See the arrangement of tables for variety.) The next, which is a sweet course, may consist of two or four dishes, with corners. If two dishes, they are jilaced at top and bottom, a nice pudding of some kind, and a fruit tart at the other; one shape of jelly, and a cream or blanc-mange placed as side dishes opposite to each other. If four princijaal dishes are desired, the top dish may be a nice open tartlette of some kind, a souffile, or ice covered tart; the bottom dish, a nice pudding, two jellies, pink cream, a blancmange, or lemon sponge; as comer dishes, one dish of lemon or almond cheese cakes at one side, and a dish of small tartlets at the other. Place also two cream ures at opposite corners, and two sugar basins opposite them. (Examine the tables immediately following these remarks, and you will find all that you require for your guidance.) If a cheese course is desired it is served now with biscuits, butter, celeiy or salad. "When ices are served, there is one cream and one water ice, if only two; and if four one raspberry, and one vanilla cream, on ice pails, and served on small ice glasses with ginger wafers. The fruit dessert is next placed on the table, on the re. moval of the cloth. Dessert consists of dried and pre- served fruits, fruits in season, filberts, walnuts, confection- ery, small fancy biscuits, and wine. When the gentlemen join the ladies in the drawing-room, tea and coffee are served. It will be observed that the soups and meats are suitable as a change from each other, which ought to be most particularly studied. Light puddings, after a dinner of rich animal food, a shape of ground rice, corn-flour, orLAYING OUT OF THE TABLE. 345 arrowroot, is suitable also instead of a pudding. Consult "Articles in Season" for the different months in the year, and you -will be guided in your choice for the table. Company dinners is not what is wanted so much as plain everyday requirements. The quantities are not mentioned, as they must be regulated by the number of a family, A little experience will soon make it easily understood, so that there shall be no waste. A correct account of house- hold expenses for one month, would give great experience in finding out whether you are li\^ing within or above your income, which is a secret worth knowing, and worthy the trying earnestly to find out. How very many in the experi- ence of almost every one have from "wilful waste," suff'ered the miseries of "woeful want." I'his state of aff'airs is not always the result of wilful extravagance. Yery many well-meaning individuals from an entire ignorance of domestic economy, bring themselves and families into very distressing circumstances. To live comfortably is to live well; and the entertainment of friends is necessary to social and domestic happiness; and this can only be enjoyed conscientiously, by never allowing the outlay to exceed the income. Although the following arrangements will be found of great assistance, the different meats, fish, vegetables, roots, and fruits, must be chosen from what is in season, at the different periods of the year. (Consult the observations on that head.) 2x346 TABLE OF PLAIN FAMILY DINNERS. DINNERS OF FIVE DISHES. L Brown Soup. Plain Boiled Potatoes. Mashed Turnips. Roast Mutton. (When removed serve a boiled Rice Pudding.) It will be understood that the four dishes are removed from the table before the pudding is served. 2. Kidney Soup. Veal Olives. Mashed Potatoes. Boiled Cod, with Oyster Sauce. (When removed serve Custard Pudding.) 3. Ox Tail Soup. OauMower. Mashed Potatoes. Roast Fowls. (When removed serve Italian Pudding.) 4. Pea Soup. Mashed Potatoes. Minced CoUops. Fried Haddocks. (When removed serve Tapioca Pudding.)liATING OUT OF THE TABLE. 347 5. "Winter Rotch. Potcli. Mashed Turnips. Potatoes. Boiled Mutton, which has made the Soup, with Onion Sauce. (When removed serve a light Pudding.) 6. Carrot Soup. Boiled Greens. Mashed Potatoes. Small Round of Beef. (When removed serve Grateful Pudding.) 7. Chicken Soup. Chickens Curried. Brussels Sprouts. Boiled Tongue. (When removed serve a Marrow Pudding.) 8. Summer Hotch Potch. Young Turnips. Potatoes. Boiled Mutton, with Onion Sauce. (When removed serve a Custard Pudding.) 9. Boiled Salmon. Spinage or Green Pease. Potatoes. Roast Lamb, with Mint Sauce. (When removed serve a Raspberry Tart.)LAYING OUT OF THE TABLE. 348 10. Hare Soup. Hare CoUops. Plain Boiled Potatoes Boiled Cod, with Oyster Sauce. (When removed serve a Baked Batter Pudding with Preserves.) 11. Leek Soup. Broccoli, with White _, , „ Potatoes. Sauce. Roast Fowls. (When removed serve a boiled Fruit Puddiag.) 12. Rice Soup. Cabbage. Plain Boiled Potatoes. Broiled Steak, with Radish Sauce. (When removed serve Pancakes.) 13. Barley Broth. Greens. Plain Boiled Potatoes. Boiled Beef, which has made the Broth. 14. Barley BrotL Potatoes. Tm-nips and CaiTota. Boiled Mutton which has made the Broth.LAYING OUT OP THE TABLE. 349 15. Slices of Curried Fish. Stewed Spanish ^ . Potatoes. Union. Mutton Chops. (When removed serve a Bread Pudding.) 16. Boiled Haddock, with Butter Sauce. Cheese Pudding. Cauliflower. Fried Steak, with Fried Potatoes and Brown G-ravy. (When removed serve Shape of Arrowroot, with Cream and Preserves.) 17. Macaroni Soup. Cauliflower. Potatoes. Roast Yeal. (When removed serve an Apple Tart.) 18. Brown Soup. Parsnips. Potatoes. Roast Beef. (When removed serve a Custard Pudding. Eighteen tables have been arranged to give some idea of what is proper to be served at once, without removes, during the first course; by consulting the recipes throughout, a great variety of dishes may be chosen. It is not necessary when a family are dining alone tliat they should have a regular routine of soup, fish, &c.LAYING OUT OF THE TABLE. 350 Many genteel families, when alone, dine oflf one or two dishes with vegetables, with or without some simple pud- ding. If there should not be soup at table, the whole dinner may be served at once—the fish and fish plates removed, as a matter of course—and the pudding served as usual. DINNERS FOR TWELVE & EIGHTEEN, WITH REMOVES, WITHOUT SIDE DISHES. A few whole potatoes should be served with the Fish Course, they are always acceptable, and when the suc- ceeding course is served the potatoes are either handed round or served from the sideboard. It wiU be observed that the fish and soup are placed together on the tables shown; it is not intended that they are to be served to- gether. On the removal of the soup tureens, the fisb are placed on the table. 1. FIRST AND SECOND COURSES. White Oyster Soup. Fried Soles. Cod's Head and Shoulders. Jullien Soup. THIRD COURSE. Roast Turkey. Gravy Sauce. Dressed Cutlets. Carrots and Turnips, r\ ^■a ,„ ^ ' Caulinower. m otiapes. Scalloped Oysters. Caper Sauce. Boiled Gigot of Mutton.351 liAYING OUT OF THE TABLE. FOURTH COURSE. Apple Souifle, Raspberry Cream. Calves' Feet Jelly. Calves' Feet Jelly. Lemon Cream. Custard Pudding. Succeeded by a Cbeese Course or not, and Fruit Dessert. 2. FIRST AND SECOND COURSES. Mock Turtle Soup. Brown Gravy Sauce, Boiled Haddock. Fried Sliced Fisb, Butter Sauce. Clear Brown Soup. THIRD COURSE. Roast Beef, Radish. Sauce. Brussels Sprouts. Sweetbreads. Stewed Kidney. Articbokes. Boiled Fowls, with Tongue in the centre, White Sauce. FOURTH COURSE. Steamed Cabinet Pudding. Blancmange. Calves' Feet Jelly. Lemon Sponge. Pink Cream. Fruit Tart With Fruit Dessert. 3. FIRST AND SECOND COURSES. Brown Oyster Soup. Boiled Whitings, with plain White Butter Sauce over them. Broiled Salmon in slices, with cold Butter. Plain White Soup.352 LAYING OUT OF THE TABLE. With Fruit Dessert. THIRD COURSE. Roast Mutton, with Onion Sauce. Turnips Mashed. Ox Palates. Scalloped Yeal. Cauliflower. Boiled Turkey, Oyster White Sauce. FOURTH COURSE. Preserve Tart. Shape AiTOwroot Shape Jelly. Blancmange. Variegated Cream. Shape Jelly. "Vermicelli Pudding. With Fruit Dessert. 4. FIRST AND SECOND COURSES. Ox Tail Soup. Slices of Fish Curried. Small Fish, boned, and roasted. Carrot Soup. THIRD COURSE. Yeal Olive Pie. Cauliflower, with Oyster Patties. White Sauce. Eice Croquettes, with Boiled Green Pease. Brown Sauce. Roast Pork, with Apple Sauce. FOURTH COURSE. Fig Pudding. Calves' Feet Jelly. Strawberry Cream. Vanilla Cream. Lemon Sponge. French Souffle Puddmg.LAYING OUT OF THE TABLE. 353 0. FIRST AND SECOND COUESl!,b. MiiUagatawny Soup. Fried Small Fish. Boiled Turbot, Lobster Sauce. Potato Soup, with Cream. THIRD COURSE. Roast Fillet Veal. Stewed Cabbage. Curried Chicken. Minced Beef, with tj -i j -d- • Boiled Kice; Macaroni. Boiled Shoulder of Mutton, with Caper Sauce. FOURTH COURSE. German Apple Tart. Jelly. Blancmange. Easpberry Cream. Fruit in Jelly. Boiled Lemon Pudding, with Lemon Sauce. With Fruit Dessert. 6. FRUIT AND SECOND COURSES. Kidney Soup. Roast Cod's Head and Shoulders, with Port Wine oi Brown Oyster Sauce. Soles filleted, in White Sauce. Asparagus Soup. 2 YLAYING OUT OF THE TABLE. 354 THIRD COURSE. Roll of Beef, stuffed and stewed brown, with Oyster- in the gi'avy. Stewed Tongue, in slices. Dressed Sprouts. -.^ , T rn ■ Chickens, in Browa Mashed Turnips. g^^^^^ Roast Mutton. FOURTH COURSE. Apple or Rhubarb Pudding. ^ , , T-, ^ T n Preserved Apples, with CaW Feet Jelly. ^^J^ Preserved Pears with Vernon Cream. Oream. Marrow Pudding. With Fruit Dessert. 7. FIRST AND SECOND COURSES. Veal Soup. Middle Cut of Salmon, with rich Butter Sauce. Fried Fillets of Turbot or Soles. JuUien Soup. THIRD COURSE. Roast Lamb, with Mint Sauce. Veal Cutlets, with q^^^^ p^^^^ Piquante Sauce. Mould of Spinage. Stewed Lobster. Spring Chickens, with Sliced Pickled Tongue, and White Sauce over them. Early Potatoes handed round.LAYING OUT OF THE TABLE. 356 FOURTH COURSE. Preserved Rhubarb, witli Sweet Eice. Lemon Cream. Jelly. Preserved Cherries. Raspberry Cream. Fniit Tart. With Fi-uit Dessert. 8. FIRST AND SECOND COURSES. Macaroni Soup. Salmon Cutlets. White Fish Curried. Artichoke Soup. THIRD COURSE. Dressed Lamb's Head. ™ ,, Stewed Pigeon, Young Cabbage. SmaU Veal Olives, ^^^^^ p^^g^^ divided. Roast Duck. FOURTH COURSE. Gooseberry Tart. Calves' Feet Jelly. Ginger Cream. Vanilla Charlotte. Dish of small Tartlets Custard Pudding. 9. FIRST AND SECOND COURSES. Hotch Potch. Fried Salmon Trout.LAYING OUT OF THE TABLE. 356 With Fruit Dessert THIRD COURSE. Roast Fillet of Yeal. Asparagus on Toast. Egg and Ham Parties. Minced Beef Rissoles. Dressed Spinage. Pigeon Pie. FOURTH COURSE. Fresh Fmit Pudding. Calves' Feet Jelly. Apple Fritters. Sweet Omelets. Lemon Cream Italian Pudding. With Fruit Dessert. 10. FIRST AND SECOND COURSES. Clear Brown Gravy Soup. Broiled or baked Mackerel. Plain "White Soup. Boiled Fish, with Sauce. THIRD COURSE. Roast Yenison, with Sharp Sxiic. Stewed Sweetbreads, Artichokes. shced. Stewed Kidneys. Cauliflower. Boiled Fowls, with Parsley Sauce. FOURTH COURSE. Apple Souffle. Lemon Sponge. Jelly. Pink Raspberry Lemon Creaia. Cream. Raspberry and Currant Tart.LAYING OUT OF THE TABLE. 357 11. FIRST AND SECOND COURSES. Hare Soup. Boiled Cut of Cod, Oyster Sauce. THIRD COURSE. Partridge Pie. Dressed Vegetables. Curried Oysters. Stewed Lobster. Sweetbreads. Roast Venison, Sharp Sauce, With Fruit Dessert FOURTH COURSE. Preserved Apricot Open Tart. Lemon Cream. Calves' Feet Jelly. Orange Jelly. Raspberry Cream. Almond Pudding. With Fruit Dessert. 12. FIRST AND SECOND COURSES. Rabbit Soup. Fried Sliced Fish, with Fried Oysters. Curried Fish. White Oyster Soup. THIRD COURSE. Roast Turkey. Stewed Tomatoes. Oyster Patties. Lobster Cutlets. ^''^ °f 9^^™*« and lurnips. Boiled Mutton, Caper Sauce.LAYING OUT OF THE TABLE. 358 FOURTH COURSE. Fruit and Custard Open Tart. Strawberry Custards, in Cream. Gla.sses. Jelly, in Glasses. Lemon Cream. Plum Pudding. With Fruit Dessert. Twelve Tables have been arranged without side dishes,—a few more will be laid out with side dishes. 1. FIRST AND SECOND COURSES. Mock Turtle Soup. Fried Soles. Stewed Sliced Fish, with Oyster Sauce. Plain White Soup. THIRD COURSE. Entrees handed round. Palates in Brown Sauce. Sweetbreads, in White Curried Pigeon. Sauce. Dressed Lobstei*. FOURTH COURSE. Dressed Calf's Head. Beat Potatoes, in Cabbage a Mould. ° ' Beef Olives, in Pastry Game Pie. Border. Plain Boiled Cauliflower. Tomatoes. Roast Mutton.359 LAYING OUT OF THE TABLE. With Fruit Dessert. FIFTH COURSE. Apple Souffle. Easpberry Cream. Jelly, Jelly. Blancmange. Orange Pudding. With Cheese Course and Fruit Dessert. 2. FIRST AND SECOND COURSES. Hare Soup. Roast Cod. Soles in White Sauce. White Oyster Soup. THIRD COURSE. Roast Turkey. Dressed Yegetables. Stewed Lobster Oyster Vol-au-Yent. Veal Olives. Rissoles. Broccoli. Small Boiled Round of Beef. FOURTH COURSE. Plum Pudding. Italian Cream. Small Pastry. Apples in Syrup. -Telly. Fruit Tart.LAYING OUT OF THE TABLE. 360 FIRST AND SECOND COURSES •Jullien Soup. Fried Whitings. Boiled Cod, Oyster Sauce. Macaroni Soup. Stewed Tomatoes. Pigeon^. Stewed Kidneys. THIRD COURSE. Roast Beef. Boiled Turkey. Lobster Outlets. Small Piece of Veal, Stuffed and Stewed. Dressed Vegetables. FOURTH COURSE. Open Tart, with Preserves. Lemon Cream. Pears, in Syrup. Jelly. Almond Cheese Cakes. Cabinet Pudding, With Fruit Dessert. Three Tables are thus shown with side dishes and four entrees. In some cases, taking the number of guests into consideration, two would be quite enough. Sometunes the corner dishes are placed on the Table with the dinner, and allowed to remain until the removal for the next course. When for a very large party there are more side dishes, and a few may be placed along the centre of the Table.361 A FEW TABLES LAID OUT SUITABLE FOR MAR- RIAGE BREAKFAST, LUNCHEON, OR SUPPER TABLES. MARRIAGE BREAKFAST. Tea Urn. Sliced Ham, with Fairy -^^ Butter over it. ^^^^^ Cream. Raspberry Cream, Vase of Flowers. Marriage Cake. Chickens, Carved and Tongue, sliced and Decorated. Decorated. Yase of Flowers. Chocolate Cream. Orange Jelly. ^. -Til Mould of Potted Oysters Pigeons, m Jelly. and Veal. Coffee Urn. MARRIAGE LUNCHEON. Pressed Veal, Glazed and Decorated. Vanilla Cream. Orange Jelly. Dish of Raised Pastry. . ^ Oysters and Veal in Salmon m J eiiy. Jelly. Fruit and Flowers. Chickens Carved, and Tongue Carved, and tied with White Cake. neatly Ribbon. Decorated. Fruit and Flowers. Ornamental Trifle. Lobster, in Jelly. Pigeons, in Jelly. Calves' Feet Jelly. Raspberry Cream- Small Ham, Glazed and Decorated. Ices handed round, with small biscuits. 2 z3C2 LAYING OUT TABLES. BREAKFASTS, LUNCHEONS, AND FOLDING NAPKINS. Tlie art of laying out a table, whether for breakfast, luncheon, dinnei', tea, or supper, consists in ai-ranging the various dishes, plate, glass, &c., methodically, and adhering to the rules we are about to make known. Much trouble, irregularity, and confusion will be avoided in a house where there is company if servants are instructed to prepare the table, sideboard, or dinner- waggon, in a similar manner and order daily. AJl tables are usually laid out according to the follow- ing rules throughout the United Kingdom; yet there are local peculiarities which will necessarily present them- selves, and should be adopted or rejected, as may appear proper to the good housewife:— Breakfasts.—The table should be covered with a clean white cloth^ the cups and saucers arranged at one end, if for tea; and at both ends if for tea and coffee; or the coffee-cups and saucers may be arranged at the right- hand side of one end of the table, and the tea-cups and saucers at the left: the tea-pot and coffee-pot occupying the sjjace between in front, and the urn that at the back. Some persons substitute cocoa or chocolate for coffee, in which case they are to be j)laced the same. The slop- basin and milk-jug should be placed to the left; and the cream and hot milk-jugs, with the sugar basin, to the right. The remainder of the table should be occupied in the centi-e by the various dishes to be partaken of; while at the sides must be ranged a large plate for meat, eggs, <fec.,363 LAYING OUT OF THE TABLE. and a small one for toast, rolls, &c., with a small knife and fork for each person; the carving knife and fork being placed point to handle ; the butter and bread knives to the right of their respective dishes, which occupy the centre part, and spoons in front of the hot dishes with gravy. Salt cellars should occupy the four corners, and, if reqjiired, the cruets should be placed in the centre of the table. Dry toast should never be prepared longer than five minutes before serving, as it becomes tough, and the buttered, soppy, and greasy, if too long prepared. Hot rolls should be brought to table covered with a napkin. Every dish should be garnished appropriately, either ■with sippets, ornamental butter, water-cresses, parsley, or some other garnishing. The dishes usually set upon the table are selected from hot, cold, and cured meats ; hot, cold, cured and potted fish; game; poultry, cold or hot; fruit, ripe, pre- served, or candied; dressed and undressed vegetables; meat-pies and patties, cold; eggs; honey-comb; entrees; and savoury morsels—as grilled kidneys, ham-toast, &c. Dejeuners a la fourchette are laid the same as suppers, except that tea and cofi'ee are introduced. When laid for a marriage or christening breakfast, a bride's or christening cake should occupy the centre instead of the epergne or plateau. Luncheons, or Noonings.—The luncheon is laid in two ways; one way is to bring in a butler's tray with let down sides, on which it is previously arranged upon a tray cloth, and letting down the sides and spreading the cloth upon the dining table to distribute the things as364 LAYING OUT OF THE TABLE. required. The other Ls to lay the cloth as for dinner, with the pickle stands and cruets opposite each other; and, if in season, a small vase of flowers in the centre; if not, a water-jug and tumblers, which may be placed on a side- table ab other times. The sides of the table are occupied by the requisites for each guest, viz., two plates, a large and small fork and knives, and dessert-spoon. A folded napkin, and the bread under, is placed upon the plate of each guest. Carafes, with the tumblers belonging to and placed over them, are laid at the four corners, with the salt- cellars in front of them, between two table-spoons laid bowl to handle. If French or light wines are served, they may be placed in the original bottles in ornamental wine vases, between the top and bottom dishes and the vase of flowers, with the corks drawn and partially replaced. The dishes generally served for luncheons are the remains of cold meat neatly trimmed and garnished; cold game hashed or plain; hashes of all descriptions; curries; minced meats; cold pies, savoury, or fruit; plain cooked cutlets, steaks, and chops; omelettes; bacon; eggs; and grilled bones; potatoes; sweetmeats; butter; cheese; salad; and pickles. In fact, almost anything does for lunch, whether of fish, flesh, fowl, pastry, vegetables, or fruit. Ale and porter are generally served, but occasionally sherry, Marsala, port, or home-made wines, are introduced, with biscuits and ripe fruit. A good housewife should always have something in the house ready to convert into a neat little luncheon, in caseLAYING OUT OF THE TABLE. 365 a few friends drop in, to what some are pleased to call a "tiffin;" and it is astonishing how a really handsome look- ing affair may be made ont of the remains of the dinner served the day before, some handsome glass, a sprinkle of good plate, a few flowers, some good ale, or a little wine, and above all, a hearty welcome. Napkins.—Dinner napkins should be about twenty- eight inches broad, and thirty inches long. They may be folded in a variety of ways, which impart a style to a table, without adding much to the expense, and may be readily accomplished with a little practice and attention to the following directions and diagrams. I.—THE miTRE.—{Fig. 1.) Fold the napkin into three parts longways, then turn down the right-hand corner, and turn up the left-hand one, as in Fig. 2, A and B. Turn back the point A towards the right, so that it shall lie behind C; and B to the left, so as to be behind D. Double the napkin back ab the line E, then turn up F from before and G- from behind, wlien they will appear as in Fig. 3. Bend the corner H towards the right, and tuck it behind I, and turn back the corner K towards the left, at the dotted line, and tuck it into a corresponding part at the back. The bread is placed under the mitre, or in the centre at the top. 11.—THE EXQUISITE.—(Fiiy. 4-) Fold the napkin into three parts longways, then fold down two-fifths of the length from each side, as in Fig. 5, at A; roll up the part B towards the back, repeat on the other side, then turn up the corner towards the corner A,LAYING OXJT OF THE TABLE. 367 and it will appear as D. The centre part E is now to be turned up at the bottom, and down at the top, and the two rolls brought under the ceatre piece as in Fig. 4. The bread is placed under the centre band K, Fig. 4 nr.—THE COLLEGIAN.—(if«£r. 6.) Fold the napkin into three parts longways, then turn down the two sides towards you, so that they shall appear as in Fig. 7 ; then roll up the part A underneath until it looks like B, Fig. 8. Now take the corner B and turn it up towards 0, so that the edge of the rolled part shall be even with the central line ; repeat the same on the other side, and turn the whole over, when it will appear as in Fig 6. The bread is placed underneath the part K. IV.—THE CINDERELLA.—(Fi(7. 9.) Fold the napkin iuto three parts longways, then turn down the two sides as in Fig. 7; turn the napkiu over, and roll up the lower part as in Fig. 10, A.B. Now turn the corner B upwards towards C, so that it shall appear as in D j repeat on the other side, and then bring the two parts E together so that they will bend at the dotted line ; and the appearance will nOw be as in Fig. 9. The bread is placed under the apron part, K, Fig. 9. v.—THE FLIRT.—(Fjy. 11.) Fold the napkin into three parts longways, then fold across the breadth, commencing at one extremity, and continuing to fold from and to yourself, in folds about two inches broad, until the whole is done, then place in a tumbler, and it will appear as in the illustration.LAYING OUT OF THE TABLE. 368 VI.—THE NEAPOLITAN.—(/•%. 12.) Fold tlie najjkin into three parts longways, then fold one of the upper parts upon itself from you ; turn over the cloth with the part having four folds from you, and fold down the two sides so as to appear as in Fig. 7; then roll up the part A underneath, until it appears as in the dotted lines in Fig. 15, at B. Now turn up the comer B towards C, so that the edge of the rolled part shall be even with the central line ; repeat the same upon the opposite side, and turn the whole over, when it will apjiear as in Fig. 14 ; the bread being placed underneath the part K, as represented in the illustration. VII.—THE "FAVOURITE," OR OUR OWN.—(FiV?. i^.) Fold the napkin into three parts longways, then turn down the two sides as in Fig. 7, and roll up the part A on both sides, until as represented on the right-hand side in Fig. 14; then turn it backwards (as A B) on both sides; now fold down the point C towards you, turn over the napkin, and fold the tsvo other parts from you so that they shall appear as in Fig. 15. Turn the napkin over, thus folded, and raising the centre part with the two thumbs, draw the two ends (A and B) together, and pull out the parts (C and D) until they appear as in Fig. 13. The bread is to be placed as represented in K, Fig. 13. THE ARRANGEMENTS OF COLD SUPPERS, Or Refrksument Tables for Large Evening Parties. When to be handed round, forms are 25laced round tlie room in which supper is to be served, with a supper plate, small knife and foi'k, a napkin, and roll in it for each pei*-369 SUPPERS. son on the seats. The table is laid out in a tasteful manner, with cold Chickens and Tongue, Yeal, Ham, &c.. Pastry, Jellies, Fruits, Confectionery, and Beverages, of whatever description they may be, with or without ices. Many more tables might be shewn, the foregoing are merely suggested, as the variety and quantity must be regulated by the number of invited guests. For marriagf breakfast or luncheon, the napkins covering the dishe? are ornamented with small white favours at the corners. The table napkins are folded in a peculiar manner, so that a small bunch of flowers are fixed in them. As practical instructions are given in folding table napkins, it is un- necessary to dwell on this subject. SMALL SUPPER PARTIES. Late dinners have generally rendei*ed suppers unneces- sary, but for the benefit of those who dine early, and are accustomed to make supper the evening meal, a few small tables are shewn. Supper is to many the most social and comfortable meal of any, especially to those whose pur- suits occupy the principal portion of the day. Those who from habit do not take supper, always sulfer more or less from an occasional indulgence; but according to Macaulay, a high medical authority, those who have been always accustomed to take supper are never the worse but the better for partaking of that meal. When the cloth is laid, small supper plates, knives and forks, supper rolls, or cut pieces of bread, with other requisites, are placed on the table. Potatoes are generally handed round; if they are served whole, which is generally the case for supper, they are served with a folded napkin in the dish. 3a370 SMALL HOT SUPPERS, Suitable for from six to twelve individuals, the quantities increased according to numbers. 1. Roast Chicliens, and slices of Fried Ham. Oyster Patties. Beef Cakes, Veal Olives, in Potato Border, 2. Pigeon Pie, ScaUoped Oysters. Curried Egg. Sliced Fisb, Stewed. 3. Minced Collops, Dressed with Macaroni. Cheese Pudding. Oysters. Poached Egg, over Slices of Fried Bacon. 4. Mutton Cutlets, with Stewed Tomatoes. Fried Eggs and Ham. ^eal Patties. Slices of Fish, Curried. 6. Stewed Pigeons. Oyster Vol-au-Vent. Stewed Spanish Onions. Sausajzes, Dressed round a IMould J* of Potatoes.SUPPERS. 371 6. Dressed Tripe. Scalloped Oysters. CoUops, with Fried Sippets. Dish of Small Meat Pies. The foregoing suggestions are subject to variety. A small Cheese Course, and di-ied fruit may be added at pleasure ; puddings and pastry are not suitable accom- paniments at Small Supper Parties. COLD SUPPERS, FOR SMALL EVENING PARTIES. Cold Meats, consisting of Fowls, Tongue, Ham, Veal, Potted Meat, Salmon, Raw Oysters, with Biscuits, Cheese' and Celery, with dried fruits, are generally what are pre- sented for supper; if they have been previously presented at dinner they must be trimmed, and the bones from the joint sawn off, so that they will have a good appearance at table. If not presentable in that form, slice them nicely, and put a few bunches of parsley over them; a few pickles may be served with them, and salads when in season. ARTICLES IN SEASON At the Different Periods of the Year. FISH. Salmon and Salmon Trout are in Season from May to August. The Fishing Season begins much eariier, but it372 ARTICLES IN SEASON. is more expensive in the early part of the season. Indeed, Salmon is expensive in Scotland at all seas()n.s of the year, at least it is considered so now. Although our rivers abound with them, a great many are sent to other markets, which help to keep up their high prices. Choose Salmon by their stiffness, bright scales, thick belly, and the gills of a brilliant colour. When cut a beautiful red will prove it to be a fine fish, it must be - cooked as soon as possible after being caught. TURBOT Is in season all the year round, and is chosen by the whiteness of the belly, faintly tinged with yellow, and the thickness of the fish. It is in the highest perfection about April. COD Are in season from the end of September till the beginning of February, and are in fine condition for the table in December. To be chosen by their plumpness and thick- ness at the shoulders, firm white flesh, bright and bloodshot eyes, small head and very red gills. HADDOCKS May be had earlier in the season, but are in perfection in the months of October, November, and December, and may be chosen as Cod. WHITIXGS Are in season from the beginning of November, till the end of February. SKATE Is in season nearly all the yeai- round, and should be very white and thick.ARTICLES IN SEASON. 373 SOLES Are in season nearly all the year round, and should be, when good, of a creamy white, and thick in the body,— when of a bluish tinge, they are not good. FLOUNDEES Should be chosen as above. HERRINGS Are in season at different periods of the year. The west coast herring fishing begins in June, when the famous Lochfine herrings are brought to market, also abundance of fine herrings from Campbelton. They continue good during the summer mouths. The Forth supplies Edin- burgh with fine winter herrings, they are caught in the neighbourhood of Inchkeith, and on the Fife coast. They are also abundant on the east coast, in the neigh- bourhood of Dunbar. The north send great quantities of herrings to market, and in many of our Islands her- rings supply the inhabitants with a large proportion of their food. They should feel quite stiff when fresh, the gills red, with very bright scales. MACKEREL Are in season from May till July, and are easily known to be fresh, by smelling them. It is best not to trust to appearances in choosing mackerel, as they are very bad 2f not quite fresh. If tainted in the least avoid them. TROUT Are in season from the beginning of May till the end of August. OYSTERS Are in season all the months of the year, except May, June, July, and August.AUTtCLES IN SEASON. 374 LOBSTERS AND CRABS Are in season from April to October, and may be had all the year round. MEATS WHEN IN SEASON. Beef is in season all the year round, but in the winter months when it can be hung a short time before cooking, it is much more tender. In purchasing beef at the mar- ket, choose that of a bright red colour, open grained, the fat a pale yellow, the suet white and firm, and you may be sure of its being young and very good. If it is dark in the colour, closely grained, and the fat of a strong odour, you may be sure of its being bull beef, the flavour of which is very rank. Well fed beef will be found intergrained with fat; lean beef is inferior in quality and is not economical; ox beef is generally con- sidered the best. MUTTON Is in season all the months of the year except the latter period of spring and the summer months; and in pur- chasing it choose small-boned short-legged mutton, the fat pure white and the flesh a clear red. When the fat is yellow the quality of the meat is bad. LAMB Is in season all the summer months, although a little is brought to market in the eai-ly months of spring, at which time it is a rarity, and very costly. Choose that which looks quite fresh, look under the kidney, and if it looks the least bluish it is stale. VEAL Is in season, and may be had all the year round; it is scarce in the winter, and very expensive. Choose it finelyARTICLES IN SEASOIT. 375 grained, and of a white delicate appearance, firm in the fibres, and should be cooked when quite fresh. PORK Is in season, and can be had all the year round, and is chosen of a white delicate appearance, and very thin in the rhind. Fresh pork must be used when quite newly killed; there is scarcely any animal food more dangerous if the least stale and under cooked. When stale, its general appearance would tell, and if the rhind feels the least clammy reject it. POULTKY. Fowls may be had all the year round ; turkey, or tur- key poults, jMgeons, ducks, or ducklings, and chickens, in early spring; geese towards the month of December. They must all be purchased young, plump, well fed, but not over fatted. Choose them rather heavy in proportion, the skin white and clear, with broad full fleshed breast; if the bone which projects over the breast feels hard, the bird is an old one; but if soft like gristle, it is young. The feet pliable when bent back, and the legs smooth- White legged poultry are chosen for boiling, and dark legged for roasting, they are better flavoured and more juicy roasted. GAME. The shooting season begins in Scotland on the twelfth of August. A plentiful supply of game continues throughout the season. Grouse and buck venison are first in the market, succeeded by other game, as the season advances. Yenison is chosen by the depth and whiteness of the fat; the flesh is of a dark hue. Rabbits and hares are quite stifi" when freshly killed, and the376 ABTICLES IN SEASON. claws smooth and sharp; the ears also tear easily. They are in best season when the cold frosty weather has set in, and continue good to February. Pheasants, par- tridges, and other game birds, may be tested much the same as poultry. The flavour of game is much improved by being kept some time before using it, although this is carried to a ridiculous extent by some parties, who think them unfit for use, until they have become quite putrid, and really enjoy them in this state. VEGETABLES. Vegetables are to be had in great variety at any season of the year, and as each season tells its own tale, it is only wasting time to enlarge upon it. BUTTER Is easily known to be good or bad by merely tasting it. Milk is tested in the same way. Eggs are often not known to be unfit for use until served at table; one test is to hold them close up to the gas-light, shading them with the hand, if they appear marbled they are stale. FRUITS. The same remarks are applicable to fruits as to vege- tables, every season speaking for itself, by sending in naturally its successive supply. Besides our own coun- try supply, other countries contribute largely in supply- ing the markets. HAM AND BACON Are known to be good by the general appearance; if the fat is of a yellow tinge it is becoming rancid, and should be avoided. Pierce it, if it smells sweetly, it is good.* ARTICLES IN SEASON. 377 FLOUR, MEAL, BARLEY, PEASE, RICE, &c., Should not be stored in very large quantities, as mites are apt to be engendered. Tea, if kept in a dry place, may be stored in any quantity; but Coffee, Sj)ices, Cheese, and such like provisions are best to be moderately kept in store. As to the choice of them, if you order them from good, well-principled merchants, you may leave yourself safely in their hands, without any fear of being imposed upon; for their own sakes they will not do you injustice. FEENCH TERMS. It wUl be observed that plain titles have been strictly adhered to in the recipes, although it is customary to give French names to all sorts of dishes at the present time, 'Very little experience is required to know, that, to a very large jDroportion of those who come in contact with the French names of dishes, they are quite as mysterious as the medical prescriptions written in a dead language. To assist in making French terms understood, a few of the names of those in common use are subjoined. Soups. Soupes or Potages. Brown Soup. Soupe Rissolee. White Soup. Soupe Blanche. Turtle Soup. Soupe a la Tortue. . Chicken Soup. Soupe au Poulet. Oyster Soup. Soupe aux Huitres. Vegetable Soup. ■ Soupe aux Legum6s. Pea Soup. Soupe Pur6e. 3 BFKENCH TERMS. 378 Fisii. Poissow. So 1 yrt r>Ti Saumon. Turbot. Turbot. Trout. Truite. Sole. Sole. Eish Cutlets. Cotelette de Poisson. Herring. Hareng. Lobster. Ecrevisse. Oyster. Euitre. Meats. Koast Beef. Rosbif. Beef Steak. Biftek. Mutton Mouton. "V^enison. Venaison. Xjamb. Agneau. Veal. Veau. Pork. Pore. Kouelle de Boeuf. Gigot of Mutton. Gisrot de Mouton. Ham. Jambon. Bacon. Lard. Mutton Cutlet. Cotelette de Mouton. Mutton GlioD. Tranche de Mouton. Veal Cutlets. Cotelette de Veau. Broiled Beef Steak. Biftek Grille. Brnilpfl Kidnev. Boffnon Grille. O VV C-l J-V. lUJJ.^ ¥ • Etuvee de Roguon- Ox Tonerue. Langue de Boeuf. Lamb's Head, Tete d'Agneau. Hash. Hachis. Ham and Egg. Jambon et CEuf. Stewed Ox Tail. Etuv6e de Queue de BceufFEENCH TERMS. Meats. Sausages. Poached Eggs. Pork Chops. Beef OKves. Veal Olives. Yeal Patties. Oyster Patties. Cheese Omelet, Savoury Fritter. Macaroni and Cheese. Cheese Pudding. Turkey. Fowl. Chicken. Goose. Duck. Pheasant. Grouse. Pigeon. Woodcock. Guinea Hen. Rabbit. Hare. Pigeon Pie. Game Pie. Veal Pie. Mutton Pie, Lamb Pie. Beef-Steak Pie. Suet Pudding, VlANDE. Saucisses. CEufs Pochfe, Grillade de Pore. Olives de Boeuf. Olives de Veau. Pates de Veau. Pates d'Huitre. Omelette au Fromage. Friture Savoureuse. Macaroni et Fromage. Ponding au Fromage. Dindon. Volaille. Poulet. Oie. Canard. Faisan. Coq de BruySre. Pigeon. Becasse. Pintade. Lapin. Lievre. Pate de Pigeon. Pate de Gibier. Pate de Veaii. Pate de Mouton. Pate d'Agneau. Pate de Biftek. Ponding de Suif.FRENCH TERMS. 380 Meats. Kiduey Pudding, l^avoury Rice Pudding. Pease Pudding. Minced "Veal. Ox Palates. Veal Sweetbread. Sauces. Brown Sauce. White Sauce. Mushroom Sauce. Radish Sauce. Onion Sauce. Lemon Sauce. Butter Sauce. Egg Sauce. Caper Sauce. Parsley and Butter Sauce. Oyster Sauce. Lobster Sauce. Game Sauce. Bread Sauce. Apple Sauce. Celery Sauce. Gooseberry Sauce. Mint Sauce. Tomato Sauce. Cucumber Sauce. Piquant Sauce. Anchovy Sauce. Salad Sauce. VlAKDE. Ponding de Rognon. Pouding au Riz Savoureux. Poudiag aux Pois. Hachis de Veau. Palais de Boeuf. Ris de Yeau. Sauces. Sauce Rissolle. Sauce Blanche. Sauce aux Champignons. Sauce aux Raves. Sauce a 1' Oignon. Sauce au Citron. Sauce au Beurre. Sauce aux OEufs. Sauce aux Capres. Sauce au Persil et Beurret Sauce aux Huitres. Sauce k la Ecrevisse. Sauce Gibier. Sauce au Pain. Sauce aux Pommes. Sauce au Celeri. Sauce aux Groseilles. Sauce k la Menthe. Sauce aux Tomates. Sauce au Concombre. Sauce Piquante. Sauce aux Anchoia. Sauce a la Salade.381 FRENCH TERMS. Vegetables. Cabbage. Cauliflower. Beans. Parsnip. Carrot. Turnip. Spinage. Cucumber. Onions. Asparagus. A-rtichoke. Celery. Pease. Beetroot. Potatoes. Parsley. Sweet Herbs. Mushrooms. Salad. Puddings and Pastry. Pastry.. Gooseberry Tart Apple do. Cherry do. RKubarb do. Raspberry do. Oranfi;e do. Apricot do. Apples and Rice. Rice Pudding. Vegetables. Chou. Chou Fievir. Feves. Panais. Oarotte. ISTavet. Epinards. Concombre. Oignons. Asperges. Artichaut. Celeri. Pois. Betterave. Pomme de Terra. Persil. Herbes Donees. Champignon. Salade. Poudings et Patisserrih, Patiserrie. Tourte aux Groseilles. Tourte aux Pommes. Tourte aux Cerises. Tourte a la Rhubarbe. Tourte aux Pramboises. Tourte aux Oranges. Tourte aux Abricots, Riz et Pomme. Pouding au Riz.3S2 FRENCH TEEMS. Puddings and Pastuy. Macaroni do. Vermicelli do. Bread do. Plum do. Custard do. Cabinet do. Pan Cakes. Fritters. Sweet Omelet. Jellies and Creams. Calves' Feet Jelly. Raspberry Cream. Blancmange. Lemon Cream. Chocolate Cream. Strawbei'ry do. Arrowroot. Ice Cream. Water Ice, Pine Apple Ice Cream. Vanilla Cream. Rose Cream. Orange Flower Cream. Almond Iced Custard Pudding. Mould of Apples. Raspberry Pudding. Cakks, &c. A Cake. Tea Cake. POUDINGS ET PaTISSKKRIB. Ponding au Macaroni. Ponding au Vermichelle. Ponding au Pain. Plum Pudding. Ponding Flan Ponding Cabinet. Crepe. Beignets. Omelette au Sucre. Gelees et Cremes. Gelee de Pied de Veau. Crime aux Framboisea Blancmange. Creme Citron. Creme Cbocolat. Crime Fraise. Arrowroot. Creme a la Glace. Eau ^ la Glace. Creme a la Glace I'Ananas. Crime ^ la Vanille. Crime la Rose. Crime a la Fleur d'Granger. Ponding d'Amandes h. la Creme Glac6e. Moule de Pomme. Pouding de Framboise. Gateau, &c. Un Gatea\i. Tea Cake.FRENCH TERMS. 383 Cak.es, &o. Gateau, &c. Shortbread. Shortbread. Gingerbread. Pain d'epice. Macaroon. Macaron. Hose Souffle Drops. Gouttelettes au Souffle Rose. Meringues. Meringue. Ginger Biscuits. Biscuits au Gingembre. Lemon do. Biscuits au Citron, Cinnamon do. Biscuits a la Cannelle. Almond do. Biscuits a I'Amandes. Nut Cake. Gateau aux Noix. Coffee Cake. Gateau au Cafe. Sugar Icing. Glacer au Sucre. Glaze. Glacer au blanc d'ceuf. Bread. Pain. Breakfast Rolls. Petit-pain pour DIjeuner. Dinner Rolls. Petit-pain pour Diner. Eggs. (Eufs. Water. Eau. Milk. Lait. Butter. Beurre. Flour. Fleur de Farine. Apples. Pommes. Plums. Prunes. Green Gages. Reine-Claude. Cucumber. Concombre. Melon. Melon. Peach. Peche. Pear. Poire. Apricot;. Abricot. Red Currant Jelly. Gelee de Groseilles Rouges,384 FRENCH TERMS. White Currant Jelly. Gel6e de Groseilles Blancbes. Haspberry. Framboise. Strawberry. Fraise. fxro^pillp a. T\TaniiprP/ii] Marnialade. jyxai in aiacie. ^A^alnvi ts. OIX. V in i o^rft Trnfflp Truffe. -LlUI oc 1 rlLlloLL* \jrul lie. Ail Esclialotj Ecbalote. Mint. Mentbe. Oil. Huile. Spice. Epice. Catsup, Catsup. r^T'M 71 n V" Eau-de-vie. iium. Rbum. Gin. Geuievre. Wine, Viu. Champagne. Yin de Champagne. SwApf; Sniff Epice Douce. Epice Savoureuse. Tlie Fu-e. Le Feu. To Boil. Bouillir. To Roast. Rotir. To Broil. Griller. To Fry. Frii-e. To Bake. Cuii-e an Four. To Stew. Accomoder en Ragout.V FRENCH TERMS. 385 Soup Pot Pot S, Soupe. Stew Pan. Casserole. J^rylI]g Pan. Poele h, Frire. Gi'idiron. (jril. Fish Kettle. Poissonniere. Breakfast. Dejeuner. Luncheon. Morceau, Collation. Dinner, Diner. Tea. The. Supper. Souper. CONFECTIONEEY. Confections are so abundant and cheap, not only in lai-ge towns, but in the most remote country villages, that the home manufacture of them is not considered more economical than to piirchase them. However, for the benefit of those who prefer making their own confection- ery, the following recipes may be found useful. They are written out in as simple a form as possible, so as not to mystify those who attempt to make them; and if care- ful attention is paid to the instructions given, there is little fear of being unsuccessful. LEMON BARLEY SUGAR. Put one pound of loaf sugar into a small preserving pan, the juice, and the grated rind of the one half of a small lemon, and a breakfast-cupful of cold water; put it on a clear fire, or hot plate, to boil. You must not stir it, else you will make it dull in the colour. When it boUs &kim it as long as you see steam aiising from it, keep386 CONFECTIOITERY. it boiling, but whenever you see that the steam is gone, and it is covered all over the surface with bells, dip a tea-spoon in a cup of cold water, and then quickly into the sugar, and into the water again; if it breaks quite crisp like glass, it is ready. Cover a clean baking pan with cartridge paper, brush it over with pure olive oil, and pour the barley sugar into it. When it is cool euougli to handle, but still hot, cut it with large scLssors into narrow stripes, roll them with a clean rolling pin, one stripe at a time, and twist them round like ringlets, they must be done very quickly. If the barley sugar gets too cold to cut, put it near the fire untU it has become warm again. BARLEY SUGAR SEALS. After cutting the barley sugar into stripes, cut them up into the sizes of very small marbles, and stamp them GINGER BARLEY SUGAR. Immediately before taking the barley sugar from the fire, pour one quarter of an onnce of essence of ginger amongst it. FRENCH ROCK. Have a large hook fastened upon the wall, and when the barley sugar is cool enough to handle, draw it over and over the hook as quickly as possible, with both h;mds. When it has become as white as snow hold it to the fire a short time to soften it; roll it between the hands into coils about a yard in length, and when cold mai-k it all across in convenient lengths, when it will break quite easily. It must not be put past until quite cold, and kept from the air in a dry place; it may be flavoured with lemon or peppermint.IND EX. Page Preface . - 3 The Young House- keeper, and her Duties 5 The Cook—Qualifica- tions, Utensils, &c. 8 The cutting up of meat 12 The different pieces of butcher-meat for roasting, &c. - 14 CLEANING AND DRAWING OF POULTRY, GAME, & FISH. Boning - - - 20 Trussing - - 22 Larding . - 24 Braising - . - 25 Glazing - - 26 Making up of the fire 27 Preparation of food, (fee 28 General economy of the kitchen - - 32 Dishing of cooked meats for the table 34 Carving - - - 35 Weights and measures 39 SOUPS. Page General Remarks, - 40 Almond Soup - 55 Artichoke „ - 51 Asparagus „ - 50 Brown, clear „ - 40 plain ,, - 41 Broth, mutton - 48 — sheep-head - 48 — beef - - 48 Beef tea - - - 54 Carrot soup - - 46 Chicken „ - - 49 Crab „ - - 57 Fish „ - - 53 Game - - 53 Hare „ No. 1, 2 - 45 Hotch potch (summer and vjinter) - - 44 Julienne soup - 43 Kidneysoup,Nos.l,2,3 42 Leek „ - 47 Lobster „ - 54 Macaroni ,, - 44 Mussel „ - 57 Mock turtle „ - 47INDEX. S92 Page Mulligata-wnysoup - 52 Ojster [white) „ - 50 Oyster „ - 57 Onion - 47 Oxtail „ 1,2- 43 Partridge „ - 58 Pea (green) „ - 56-57 — (yellow) „ -60-51 Potato „ 1,2- 52 Babbit „ - 45-46 — {brown),, - 46 Rice „ - 55-56 Sago „ - 44 Sago and egg „ - 54 Spinage „ - 51 Turnip „ - 51 Turtle „ - 55 Vegetable marrow,, - 55 Vegetable and rice „ - 52 Venison „ - 53 Vermicelli „ - 44 White „ - 54 FISH. Cod's head and shoulders 69 — roasted or baked - - - 70 Cod, rolled or collared 70 — middle cut of roasted - - 71 — boiled - - 71 — slices of - - 71 — pie - - - 71 — salted ling,or tusk 72 Codlings or haddocks 70 Pagb Crabs . - - 73 Eels - - - 77 Fish, stewed - - 75 — curried - - 75 — small, broiled - 75 — potted - - 75 — remarks - - 58 Hahbut - - - 68 — fillets of - 68 Haddocks, stufied or roasted - - 72 Haddocks, boiled - 72 — small - 73 — baked - 73 —• fried - 73 Herrings, fresh - 76 Lobsters and Crabs - 77 — stewed - 77 — dressed - 77 — cutlets - 78 Mackerel, broiled - 73 — baked - 74 — pickled - 74 — Med 74 Oysters - . - 79 — stewed in the shells - - - 78 Ovsters stewed - 79 — cutlets - 79 — entree - 79 — sausages - 79 Salmon - - - 59 — sUces of, boiled 59 — broiled, cut up 60 — slices done up in paper, 1 and 2 60393 INDEX. Page Salmon, baked, 1,2,3, 60-61 — Trout, small - 61 — remains of - 61 — kippered - 62 — collared or rolled 62 — „ a richer way for potting 62 — stewed or Gene- vese mode - 63 — curried - 63 — pickled - 64 — fried cutlets - 64 — baked „ - 65 — crimped,, - 65 — stewed ,, - 65 — baked with potatoes - - 65 — trout boiled - 65 — „ broiled - 66 Savoury fritters - 187 Skate and flounders - 76 Soles, boiled - 68 — fried - - 68 — baked - - 69 — filleted, 1 and 2 69 Sprats - - - 76 Sturgeon - - 75 Turbot - - - 66 — roasted or baked 67 — fillets of - 67 — baked - - 68 Whitings, dressed with white sauce - - 74 Whitings, fried as in France - - 75 3 EOASTING, BOILING, STEWING, &c. Beef, rolled, to be Page served hot - - 88 — curried, as in Madras - - 103 — roast - - 80 — „ ribs of - 80 — to eat like roast hare - 81 — boiled, round of 85 — steak - - 90 — pressed - - 90 — steak, broiled - 92 — or pork sausages 98 — olives - - 100 — steak and onions 101 — „ pudding - 102 — marrow bones - 104 Brawn - - - 100 Bacon, cold or smoked ham - - - 87 — fried or toasted 87 — and beans - 87 — ham, smoked, to be served hot 86 — boiled, salted- 87 Calf's head, dressed, 1 and 2 - - 91 — boiled - 92 — potted - 92 Chops, mutton or lamb, dressed - 93 Oollops, Scotch - 96 — minced - 96 Cutlets, dressed - 93 Cow-heel - - 99 DINDEX. 394 Page Cheese omelet or pud- ding - - - 106 — fritters - - 106 — pudding - 108 — and macaroni pudding - - 108 — toasts - - 109 Another cheese omelet- - - 109 — fondou of - 103 Cucumbers, corner dish of - - 105 Eggs, a supper dish of 104 Egg curry, 1 and 2 - 103 Fowl pillau - - 97 Another fowl pillau 105 Fritters savouiy - 107 — oyster - - 107 — cheese- - 106 Giblets stewed - - 101 Haggis Scotch - 99 Ham to be serTOd cold 86 Ham and Egg - 97 — baked, to be served either hot or cold 87 — smoked - - 87 Irish stew - - 90-96 Kidneys stewed - 94 — broUed - 94 Lamb roast - - 82 — saddle of - 90 — stewed gigot of 90 Lamb's head - - 95 Liver and bacon - 84 — pudding, - 100 Macaroni and cheese 107 Page Another way, - 108 Meat and potato balls 107 — potatoes, baked 96 Mutton roast - - 81 — saddle of 81 — loin of - 81 — shoulder of 83 — boiled gigot of 85 — rolled, to be served hot - 88 — stewed shoul- der of mutton - 89 — cutlet - - 90 — or lamb chops, dressed - - 93 — chops, plain - 93 — hash - - 98 — fillet, stewed with tongue and oyster sauce - 89 Onions, Spanish, side or corner dish - 105 Ox cheek, baked - 92 — head - - - 96 — tongue, boiled - 95 — tails stewed - 98 — heart, roast or baked 85 Oysters, scalloped 107 Oyster patties - - 106 — fritters - - 107 Pig's cheek pickled to boil - - - 94 Pig, roast sucldng - 84 Potato balls, French 107 Pork chops - - 100 — or beef sausages 98395 INDEX. Page Pork, roast leg of, - 84 — roast - - 83 Savoury fritters - 107 Sausages and poached eggs - - - 98 Stewed steak - - 102 Supper dish - 99-104 Venison or veal, boiled 8 6 roast, 1 and 2 82 Veal, roast - ' H shoulder of - 83 roast loin of - 83 rolled - - 88 — pillau - - 97 fricandeau of - 103 _ Curry - - 102 — olives - - 101 — scalloped - 107 — pie - - 116 Vol-au-vent. side dish 106 — small or veal patties - 105 Vegetable marrow, side dish - - 104 POULTPvY AND GAME. Chickens, for a side dish 121 — roast - 110 — and ham pie 115 — and tongue- 110 — with mush- room sauce - 11 J- and tomatoes 111 with oysters 111 — stewed with spinage - - HI Page Calf's head pie - Calf's head, baked - 117 Duck stewed with m-een pease - 112 .— roast - - ^^"^ — and green pease plain - - 113 — fricaseed - - 113 _ wild - - 113 — wild, to stew - 113 Fowls, roast - - 119 — guinea, roast - 119 Goose braised - - 112 _ roast - - 112 Grouse pie - - 117 Grouse - - - ii( Hare stewed - - 115 _ potted - - 115 _ roast - - 120 — jugged - - 122 Liveret roast - - 119 Pigeons - - " ■'■^^ broiled - US — roast - - 118 in white sauce 120 in jelly - 122 stewed plain 118 — jugged, 1, 2, 121 dressed, French 120 compote - 121 — wood - - 119 Partridges, broiled, - 113 _ potted - 114 _ roast - 114 Pheasants, roast - 114 _ boiled - 114396 INDEX. PlGE Pheasants, broiled - 114 Rabbits, stewed - 115 — or hare pie 115 — roast - - 119 Turkey - - - 109 — boiled - - 110 — boiled and fowls 110 — poults - - 110 Woodcocks and snipes 119 SAVOURY PIES AND PUDDING. Batter pudding - 130 — plain - 130 Beef steak pudding - 129 — pie- - 124 Cheshire pork pie - 127 Calfs' foot pie - - 126 Devonshire pie - 127 Egg and bacon pie, to eat cold - - 125 Gibletpie - - 127 Game pie - - 123 Kidney pudding 129 Lamb and mutton ])ie 124 Lark or sparrow pud- ding - - - 127 Meat and potato pie 128 Meat and potato pie, of cold cooked meat 128 Meat pies, small - 128 Mutton and beef pie 124 Olive pie - - 123 Pigeon pie - - 122 Partridge pie - - 123 Pretty savoury dish - 128 Page Pretty supper dish - 126 Pease pudding - 130 Rice - - - 130 Rabbit pic - - 123 Rook pie - - 125 Shropshire pie - 125 Suet pudding - - 129 Sheep or Calfe' head pie - - - 116 Yeal, sweet, pie - 124 Veal, or chicken and parsley pie, cold - 116 Venison pasty - 126 Yorkshire pie - 125-127 — pudding - 130 FORCEMEATS, CURRIES &c Asparagus pudding - 156 Anchovy toast - 155 — butter - 151 Brain cakes - - 132 Beef „ - - 133 — and veal sausages 135 Bread crumbs,fried 133-150 — fried to serve with soup - 132 — sippets, to gar- nish hashes - 133 Birds nest corner dish 139 Beef steak and kidney pudding - - 152 — and oyster pies - - - 152 Beef tongue stowed - 140 — baked and batter pudding - - 144397 INDEX. Page Calf's brains - - 149 — liver roast - 139 — feet - - 150 Crab quenelles- - 153 Cheese finger cakes - 145 — omelet - - 147 Chesnnts, to roast - 145 Chicken curry - - 142 — and bam sand- wiches - - 150 Corn er dish of minced meat - - - 134 Corner dish, Italian - 143 Eggs poached - - 146 — poached, with minced veal - 149 — fried, French dish 148 — poached on an- chovy toast - 151 — and cheese, a savoury dish of- 148 — dressed, as a cor- ner dish - - 151 — poached with spi- nage - - 140 — poached - - 148 Fish forcemeat - - 153 French panada of force- meat - ~ - 152 Forcemeat - - 131 — balls - 132 — fried balls 132 Fricassee of cold under- done roast beef - 133 Fricassee tongue - 140 Fowl, puree of - 141 Pagk Fowl, cold left - - 138 Giblets, stewed - 140 Hashes - - - 144 Italian pasties - 131 Italian corner dish, or entree - - 155 Kolcannou, an Irish dish. - - - 146 Lobster and crab patties 153 — quenelles - 153 — cui-ried, corner dish - - 143 — butter - - 152 Luncheon dish, savoury 148 Macaroni and ci-eam - 149 Mutton or beef cold meat pie - - 152 — haricot - 147 — pudding - 152 Marrow toast - - 154 — patties - 154 Meat balls, for comer dish - - - 131 Ox palates, for side dish 137 — No. 2, cor- ner dish - - 137 Ox tail haricot - 146 — braised - 155 Ox feet, stewed - 150 Omelet, with kidneys 147 — oysters - 148 — sweetbread 141' — savoury - 142 — 1 and 2 - 156 Potato ribbons, served with game - 133INBEX. 398 Page Potato balls ragout - 141 Pasties, small - - 130 Pie, Roman - - 149 Puddings white, sweet, 1 and 2 - 136 — another way 136 Puddings black - 135 — another way 135 Panada, French - 152 Rissoles and croquettes 140 Rabbit curry - - 142 — plain 142 Raraakins - - 144 Rice ci-oqiiettes - 154 — curried - - 154 — savoury dish - 154 — baked and milk 146 Sausages - - - 134 — pork - 134 — Oxford - 135 — beef and veal 135 Sandwiches savoury - 151 — salad - 151 — bacon and beef - - 150 , — chicken and ham - 150 Savoury or aspic jelly 144 Sweet breads 1, 2, 3 139 — side dish 139 Tripe - - - 136 — stewed - - 137 — fried - - 137 Veal, to fry cold - 138 a common dish 138 — minced - - 138 Pagb Veal, tendons of - 147 — cutlets with mush- rooms - - 149 — and fowl stuflB.ng 131 SAUCES. Apple sauce Anchovy sauce Brown gravy sauce - Browning, 1, 2, 3 Butter Bread sauce, for game Browned flour, for thickening - Brown gravy sauce, without meat — butter „ - — oyster „ - Caper sauce - Celery „ - Crab „ - Cucumber,, 1,2 Curry Chutnee Egg 1,2 Fish Game - Gravy „ for wild fowl, 1, 2 - Glaze ,> 1, 2 Gooseberry „ - Horse-radish sauce, for roast beef Another sauce, for steak or beef Ham flavouring 162 165 157 158 160 161 164 166 166 167 160 •162 165 163 163 164 160 166 161 162 164 162 158 158 168INDEX. 399 Page Lemon white sauce, 1 159 _ „ 2 160 Lobster ,, - 161 Made butter, or but- ter sauce - - 166 Miut „ - - 163 Mustard ,, - - 165 Mushroom,, - - 159 Onion „ - - 159 Oyster „ - - 161 Parsley and butter sauce - - - 161 Parsley for butter sauce 165 Sauce Robert - - 167 — sweet, for sa- voury joints - 167 Shallot gravy - - 166 Sauce for cold fowl or game - - 168 — a nice, for roast- ing pig - - 167 — shrim p and cockle 165 — salad - - 165 — shai'p - - 164 — tomato - - 163 — white - - 159 Ve nison or mutton gravy 165 Wine gravy sauce, - 166 VEGETABLES AND ROOTS. Artichokes, Jerusalem, boiled - - 176 — „ fried 176 Asparagus - - 175 — dressed as pease - - - 175 Page Beans, green - - ] 77 BrocoU - -• - 170 Beans, French - 171 — broad, with eggs - - 171 — Windsor - 177 — haricot - - 177 Brussels snwts - 169 — ,, stewed 170 Cabbage-. - - 168 — stewed - 169 — savoy - 169 — red, stewed, (fee 178 Cauliflower, plain - 170 — dressed - 170 — stewed - 170 Carrot and turnip - 172 — „ dressed dish of - - 172 — dressed as cor- ner dish - - 172 Celery, stewed - 177 Cucumbers, stewed - 173 — dressed - 174 Cucumber salad - 183 Greens - - - 169 Herbs, sweet . - 181 Kale, sea - -176 Leeks - - - 171 — with cream - 171 Marrow, vegetable - 181 Mushroom powder - 181 _ boiled - 181 — stewed - 181 — potted - 181 Nettles and dandelions 182400 INDEX. Page Onions, stewed 174 — roast - 175 — glazed, for ear- nisliing 175 — Sjjanish 175 — fried - 172 Parsnips - - . 175 — fried - 172 Parsley ,, for gar- nishing 178 Parsley, stewed 178 Potatoes, boiled, 1, 2, 178 — fried, 1, 2, 179 — mashed 179 — balls 179 — broiled 179 — stewed 180 — in a mould 180 — in their skins 180 — new 180 — steamed - ISO — hasli 180 Pease, young gi-een, to boil 177 Pease, stewed - 177 Salads - - . 182 — dressed - 183 — lobster - 183 — cucumber 183 — beetroot land Spanish onion - 184 Salad fi'om fresh fruit 184 Spinage - - - 173 — dressed with cream 173 Tomatoes 174 Page Tomatoes, dressed comer dish - - 174 Turnips, mashed - 172 — tops - - 176 PASTRY, PUDDINGS, TARTS, &c. Apjjle tavt - - 189 , SWLSS - - 190 — German - 190 — cake - - 190 Almou.d custard - 194 Apple lemon pudding 196 — puffs - - 201 — dish of, and rice 201 — souffle - - 202 A pricot tart, preserved 202 Apple pudding, French 215 — Charlotte ' - 216 — ,, another 220 — snow - - 221 — dumpling or pud- ding - - 199 — small pudding 200 Bread and butter, 1,2, 202 —; pudding, plain 208 Crisp sweet taii, paste 186 — sweet paste - 186 Custard lemon - 194 — almond - 194 — plain, in glasses, 1, 2, - - 194 — Spanish - 193 Croquant paste, French 187 Custard vanilla - 19.'i — turned out - 195INDEX. 401 Page Custard pudding, 1, 2, 3, 4, - - 210 — 5, and pre- served - - 215 Cake apple - - 190 Crust suet - - 188 Cliristmas pie - - 192 Charlotte russe - 193 — apple -■ 220 — „ another 216 Cherry tart - - 198 Charlotte, French and Vanilla ■ - - 220 Citron souflfle - - 198 College puddings - 205 Castle ,. - . 206 Children's „ - - 212 Cabinet „ plain, 1, 2, 3, - - 213 Chester puddings - 216 Cocoa nut „ - 216 Chocolate - - 216 Cheshire - - 217 Dumpling lemon - 205 — „ rich 185 — apple - 199 Damson or plum tart 199 Merangue - - 192 Nut Pudding - - 198 Pudding ground rice 206 Puflf paste, 1, 2 - 184 very rich 185 short - 186 — richer 186 French - 187 rice for sweets 187 3 Page Puff paste pudding - 188 — for raised pies - - 188 Paste, rich for tartlets and cheese cakes - 187 Pear tart - - 189 Pine, apple pudding 195 Potato, pudding - 198 Pudding, rolled - 200 Pies to cover - - 188 — small mince - 192 Potato souffle - - 204 Plum Pudding rich, 1, 2, 3 208 — ••• French 219 Prince of Wales' pud- ding - - 217 — Albert's pudding 218 Puffs Spanish - - 218 — Prussian - 218 — light German - 219 Pretty top or bottom dish - - - 221 Pudding orange - 196 — Another - 204 — apple - 200 — lemon - 196 lemon apple 196 — rich lemon 196 — Victoria - 217 — Another - 196 — line apple 202 — German - 204 — Welsh - 205 — Northum- berland - - 206INDEX. 402 Page Pudding, vermicelli - 206 ground rice 206 macaroni boiled 207 — rich and plain 207 — rice plain - 207 — ••• and apple 207 — marrow 209 — Italian 209 — grateful 209 — fruit 209 — lemon boiled 210 — fig - - 210 tapioca 212 sago boiled 212 Swiss 212 Friars' 213 Exeter 213 Essex 213 light boiled 214 French 215 — another 215 Empress 243 raspberry - 243 our Queen's 242 Queen's fa- vourite - 241 sweet egg - 219 Eve's 219 Dutch wafer 219 almond 205 college 205 castle 206 sago baked 212 — boiled 212 custard, 1, 2 211 Paob Plain custard pudding 211 Snow apple, - - 221 Souffles - - - 197 — apple - - 202 — citron - - 198 _ - - - 221 — potato - - 204 of green gages 222 — French fruit - 203 Snowballs - - 200 Tipsey cake - - 195 Trifle - - - 220 Tart German apple - 190 '— preserved apricot 202 — black currant - 191 — apple - - 189 — cherry - - 198 — damson or plum 199 — gooseberry - 199 raspberry, with cream - - - 201 Tartlet open - - 201 Tart rhubarb - - 199 — mixed fruit - 199 — Swiss apple - 190 — pear - - 189 — orange - - 202 Pies mince meat for Christmas, 1,2, 3 191 — Christmas- - 192 — small mince - 192 — how to cover pies 188 — rich paste, for sweets and tartlets 187 Paste French - - 187INDEX. 403 SWEET PUDDING SAUCES. Paoe Sauce brandy - 222 — candle - • 222 — sweet for pudding 222 — '•■ another — sweet sharp 223 — custard - 223 — wine 223 — brown 223 — French for pud- ding - 224 — fruit 224 — pine apple 224 — cherry - 224 — rhubarb - 224 — arrowroot 225 — brown cream - 225 PANCAKES, FEITTERS, &c. Fritters, apple, 1, 2 - 227 — rice 227 — cold left pud- ding - 228 — orange 228 — plain - 228 — rhubarb and apple 228 — rice 228 — peach - 229 — apricot or nec- tarine 229 — cake - 229 Oipelets,sweet, 1,2,3,4, 230 Pancakes, apple and custard 225 — French 226 Page Pancakes, plain 226 — Irish 226 — rice - 226 — cream 226 — American - 227 — cheap 227 — „ rice - 227 JELLIES, CREAMS, &c. Apples, a shape of - 241 — and cream centre dish 241 — and rhubarb fool 242 — cream 235 — Gei'man cream 235 — French cream 235 Blanc-mange - 235 — arrowroot 236 Cream, raspberry 233 — Italian 233 — white lemon 233 — lemon - 233 — white "V anilla 234 — strawberry - 234 — ginger - 234 — pine apple - 234 — chocolate 235 — coffee - 235 — whipped 236 — raspberry iced 237 — strawberry „ 237 — lemon ,, 238 — cocoa nut 239 — "Vanilla iced 239 — rose 239INDEX. 404 Page Cream, orange flower 239 — violet - - 239 — Devonshire clouted - 240 — velvet - - 240 — stone - - 240 Gooseberry fool - 242 Honeycomb lemon - 241 Ice lemon water - 237 — orange - 238 — ginger - 238 — pine apple - - 238 — „ water - 238 — peacb and nectarine 239 — ,, or water 239 Iced fruit pudding - 240 Jelly, calves'feet, 230 — macedoine of - 231 — variegated - 232 — orange - 232 Lemon sponge, 1, 2 - 232 Pudding, iced fruit - 240 — empress - 243 — almond iced custard - 239 — raspberry - 243 — royal victoria 242 — queen's fa- vourite - 241 Plums, sli ape of French 241 CAKES AND SMALL PASTRY. Biscuits, almond - 259 — „ - 269 — ratafia - 259 — macaroon - 259 Page Biscuits, queen drops 258 — rose souffle 259 — lemon „ - 259 — ginger - 260 — lemon - 261 — cinnamon - 261 — Derby - 261 — Victoria - 261 — stamped - 261 — French, 1,2 261 — Shrewsbury 1,2,3 - - 262 — rock - - 262 — Ormskirk - 263 — butter - 263 — abernethy - 263 — cracknels - 263 _ Bath- - 264 — tea - - 264 — aiTOwroot - 264 — wheat meal 265 — American - 265 — rice - - 265 — plain tea - 265 Bun, new-year's - 248 — plain, or currant loaf - - 249 — light lemon tea 250 — London tea - 250 Cakes, seed - - 243 — plain seed - 244 _ plum - - 244 — sultana - 244 — rice, 1, 2, 3, 4 245 _ Adelaide - 246 _ Savoy - - 246INDEX. 405 AGE Page ikes, sponge, 1, 2, 3 246 Cakes, potato, for tea 264 — lemon, 1, 2 - 247 — orange, 2 257 — almond 248 — coffee - 268 — arrowroot 248 — oat 268 — citron - 248 Crumpets, 1, 2 266 — Madeira 248 Drops, lemon souffle - 259 — plain tea 250 Macaroons 259 — shortbread 251 Meringues — apple or peach 260 — „ almond ,, 251 260 — „ rice „ 251 Muffins - 267 — pitcaithly 251 — X orkshire 267 — Spanish, 1,2- 252 Soda scones 266 — gingerbread - 252 Sweet sandwiches 255 — rich „ 253 256 — small „ 253 Tartlets, raspberry - 258 — „ with Wafers, spice - 254 butter-milk 254 — German 256 — thin gmger- — tea 266 bread 254 — German apple 254 ICINGS FOR CAKES AND 11 .on — small sounie - 255 PASTRY. — lemon cheese - 256 Icmg, almond - 268 — orange „ - — almond „ 256 — sugar, without 2o7 eggs 270 — potato „ 257 270 — curd „ 257 — pink 270 — apple - 257 — chocolate 270 — queen - 257 — lemon - 270 — rout 258 — for pastry or — small citron - 258 cakes - 270 — white ginger- Paste, almond - 269 bread 258 — nougat - 269 — treacle - 258 — merangued fruit 260 HOUSEHOLD BREAD — nut 267 BAKING. — cream - 264 Bread, ferment for, 1 273406 INDEX. Page Bread, witli flour yeast 273 — brewer's „ 272 — household, with brewers'yeast - 272 — with German yeast - - 274 — iinfermented ■ 274 — rice - - 274 — soda - - 275 — wheaten meal or brown - - 276 EoUs, breakfast, 1, 2 275 — dinner - - 275 — luncheon - 276 The oven - - 271 PEESERVED FRUITS. Apple pine, in slices - 276 — „ whole - 276 — and pears, to preserve - - 280 _ jeUy - - 284 Apricots, preserved - 281 Cucumbers - - 279 Currants, red - - 283 — „ jelly - 283 — white,, 1,2 283 — black,, - 284 Damsons - - 278 — cheese - 282 Fruits, to dry preserved 281 Gooseberry, green,jelly 284 Ginger, mock - - 284 Green gages - - 279 Jams, apricot and Nectarine - 277 Page Jams, white currant - 283 — „ raspberry 283 — raspberiy - 282 — plum - - 282 — damson - - 282 — black currant - 282 — blackberry or bramble - - 283 — strawberry - 281 — peach •• - 277 — pine apple, or marmalade - 277 Lemon sweetmeat, German - - 278 — marmalade - 278 — preserved or- anges and, whole - 277 Marmalade, orange, 1, 2, 3 - - 285 Melons, preserved - 280 Magnum bonum plums 278 Nectarines and white pear plums - - 281 Peaches - - - 280 OBSERVATIONS ON MAE3NG PICKLES, &c. General remarks - 286 Artichokes - - 295 Beetroot- - - 288 — and onions, 1,2 288 — and cauliflower 289 Beans, French - - 290 Cucumber and onions 289 — 1,2 - 190 Cabbage, to pickle red 287407 INDEX. Page Cherries, to pickle red 295 Cauliflower or brocoK o o n Cress, Indian - 290 Gherkins, green 290 Lemons, pickled 293 Melons, ,, 291 — mangoes, pickled 290 Mushrooms, ,, 1, 2, 3 - 293 — ketchup - 296 Peaches - - - 291 Pickled onions, escna- 1 J 1 1 * lots, and garlic Pods radish 293 Vinegar to make, 1, 2, 3 296 Walnuts black 292 — green 292 — white 292 — ketchup 297 West India pickles. imitation 294 STORE SAUCES, &c. Curry vinegar. 298 Chutnee Indian 298 Cream salad, 1, 2 297 French salad vinegar 298 Sharp sauce, for roast beef or mucton 299 Piquante sauce, 1,2, 3 299 FLAVOURED VINEGARS. Cayenne vinegar 300 Celery „ 300 Cucumber „ 300 Page Eschalot vinegar - 300 Essence of mushroom 301 Garlic vinegar - 300 Horse-radish,, - 300 Herb powder sweet - 302 Lemon brandy vinegar 301 Mushroom powder - 302 Mint vinegar - - 300 Oyster ketchup - 301 Tarragon vinegar - 301 Tomato ketchup - 301 HOME MADE WINES. Currants black wine 302 — red - - 303 — black and strawberry v'negar 304 Cherry wine - - 305 — brandy - 305 Curacoa - - - 305 Capillaire syrup - 304 Elderberry spiced wine 1 and 2 - - 303 Ginger wine - - 302 — beer - - 306 — sherbet - 307- Lemon „ - 306 — sjTup - - 304 — flavouring - 304 Lemonade - - 307 Noyeau - - - 305 Orange wine - - 306 Orangeade - - 307 Raisin wine - 304 Raspberry vinegar - 304 Spruce beer - - 306INDEX 408 MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES FOR ECONOMICAL COOKERY. Page Beef broth - - 308 Broth, pan, or green kail - - - 310 Beef steak stewed - 312 Economical dish - 309 Hasty pudding - 314 Oatmeal pudding - 312 „ porridge - 313 ,, another way 313 Ox head - - - 311 Pudding paste - - 311 — boiled - 311 Pea sovL-p - - - 308 Rice - - - 310 Soup from beef skirt 310 Skirt, how to cook - 310 Sheep and calf's head 312 Sheep's pluck - - 312 TEA, COFFEE, &c. Coffee - - - 315 Another - - 315 Chocolate - - 315 Cocoa - - - 315 Tea, - - - 314 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. Arrowroot for invalids 323 Beef tea - - - 318 — for invalids - 318 Barley gruel - - 317 Beef, minced - - 319 Butter milk whey - 321 Black cm-rant water 322 Pa OR Calf's feet jelly - 317 — or ox feet - 319 Cooling drink - - 323 Chicken soup - - 318 Chop or steak - - 320 Fish - - - 319 Gruel from flour of oatmeal - - 316 — wheatmeal - 317 — barley - - 317 — rice - - 317 — sago or jelly - 317 Haddocks, small - 320 Irish moss - - 323 Invalid mutton broth 321 Light supper dish - 322 Another - - 323 Light puddings, &c - 324 Oysters stewed or cold - - - 320 Oystera, or white fish in jelly- - - 320 nice - - - 323 Rice milk - - 317 Sago and tapioca milk 323 Savoury jelly - - 320 Toast and water - 324 Tapioca jelly - - 317 Yeal and tongue potted - - - 321 Veal soup - - 319 Whey lemon - - 322 — wine . 322 — curd - - 322 Wine negus - - 322409 INDEX. SOOTHING SYRUPS FOR A COUGH. Page Bran tea - - - 326 Camomile flowers 326 Cough cordial - 325 — soothing drink for - - - 326 Drink to promote perspiration 326 Herb teas, various - 326 Hyssop tea 32/) Lemon syrup - 325 Linseed syrup - 324 Vegetable syrup 325 Cookery for children 327 PICKLING AND SALTING OF BEEF, &c. Beef, to pickle a round of - - 328 — to salt, for im- mediate use 329 Butter, salt 331 Geese, salted - 331 General pickle for meats - - - 329 Mutton ham - 330 — salted for im- mediate use - 330 Pork 330 Tongue, to pickle 328 The Dairy 331 THE GARNISHING OF DISHES FOR THE TABLE. Beef, roast 333 — stewed - 333 Page Beet, boiled OOO — steak, broiled - 333 — mmced or collops 334 Another - 334 — round of, and tongue 338 Butter borders 338 — fairy 338 Calf's head oof 335 Cutlets, veal - OOO Curried entrees OOO Entree dishes - 336 Fish 332 Garnishing of hot dishes 337 — sweet „ 339 — cola „ dot) — a jjretty, tor cold dishes c\ e~% n 339 J±am, to decorate 337 Mutton, roast - 334 — boiled gigot of 334 — smaU stews - 334 Poultry - - - 339 Potted meats - 339 Salmon, turbot, and soles, - - - 339 Yeal - - 335-338 — and Jamb - 339 — boiled or stewed 335 LAYING OUT AND SERVICE OF THE TABLE. Observations on the proper arrangement of dishes - - 342 FINDEX. 410 TABLE OF PLAIN FAMILY DINNERS. Dinners for twelve Page and eighteen, with removes - - 350 Laying out tables for breakfasts, lunch- eons, and folding napkins - - 362 The arrangement of cold suppers - 368 Small supper parties 369 — hot suppers - 370 Cold suppers for small evening parties - 371 ARTICLES IN SEASON. Fish - - 372-373 Meats - - 374-375 Poultry - - - 375 Game ... 375 Vegetables - - 376 Fruits - - - 376 Butter - - - 376 Flour meal, barley, pease, rice, &c. - 377 French terms - - 377 CONFECTIONERY. Page Barley sugar, lemon- 385 — ginger - 386 — seals - 386 Confected carraway seeds - - - 390 Cinnamon rock - 387 Peppermint rock - 387 Drops, small mint - 390 — rose and cinna- mon, - - 390 French rock - - 386 Tablet, cinnamon - 388 — peppermint - 387 — cocoa nut - 387 — ginger - - -388 _ Yanilla - 388 — chocolate - 388 — almond - 388 — rose - - 383 — horehound - 389 Toffie - - - 389 Almonds, burnt - 390 — brown cake 389 _ white - 389 GLASGOW UNIVERSITY LIBiiARYILIBRARY^: . i5*TY