INVALID COOKERY 12 INVALID COOKERY Beef Tea is valuable for its stimulating properties, but it contains very little nourishment. The meat must be shredded finely to expose as much of the surface as possible to the water, in order that the soluble parts may be extracted. The beef tea must not be allowed to reach a temperature above 150° F. If it does, the albumeu becomes hard and the juices are retained in the meat. Fresh beef tea should be made daily because it is cooked at such a low temperature, and therefore will not keep good. Raw Meat Juice should be used in cases of extreme weakness, when it is needed in its most stimulating and concentrated form. To Prepare Raw Meat Juice.—To every oimce of shredded rump steak add two teaspoonfuls of cold water and a pinch ‘of salt. Place in a jar, cover with paper, and stand in a warm place for one hour. Strain through a piece of muslin, which must be twisted round the meat to extract the juices. Pour a tablespoonful into a red glass and give to the patient as often as required. Mutton Broth. Mutton broth is more digestible, but not so stimulating as beef tea. Fish may be divided into three classes, first (1) oily, (2) white, (3) shell fish. Only white fish should be given to invalids. The fat being confined to the fiver, the fish is not so rich, and therefore more easily digested. A white sauce is served with the fish to supply the deficiency in heat-giving or carbonaceous food. Preference should be given to sole, whiting and plaice because the flesh is finer and more digestible. Steam, if possible, because more nutriment is retained in the fish. Baking is more savoury, but not so digestible. Jellies are valuable as a means of conveying nourishment and stimulant. If made solely from gelatine, sugar, water and flavoured, it has hardly any food value. The jelly must contain either wine, milk or eggs. Egg jelly is a good method of preparing eggs. The albumen in the white does not become hardened or indigestible because hardly any heat is used in the cooking. Peptonized Milk is used when the digestive organs are