9 THE PRINCIPLES OF COOKING frequently to keep tlie joint moist, to prevent charring, and to improve the taste. Time allowed for baking : poultry, fifteen minutes to the pound and fifteen over. Beef and mutton, twenty minutes to the pound and twenty minutes over. Pork and veal, twenty-five minutes to the pound and twenty-five minutes over. Boiling. The meat to be boiled must be plunged into rapidly boiling water to harden the outside and retain the juices in the joint. After the first five minutes reduce the heat and simmer, allowing the same time as for baking. Salt meat must be put into warm water to extract some of the salt, brought to the boil, and then simmered. Frozen meat should hang for several hours before cooking, and a longer time allowed for boiling. For thick pieces of meat, allow five minutes extra to each pound. Fish should be placed in hot water ; if it is plunged into boiling water the extreme heat will cause it to break. A teaspoonful of lemon juice is put into the water to keep the fish a good colour. Frying. The food is cooked by immersion or contact with hot fat. Frying may be divided into two classes. (1) Shallow. The food to be cooked is placed in a frying pan, and as little fat as possible is used. This method is used for sausages, bacon and pancakes. (2) Deep. The food is immersed in hot fat—oil, dripping, clarified fat or butter are the best mediums. The food must be protected by a coating of batter, or egg and breadcrumbs. The fat is raised to a temperature of 351° F., or what is gener- ally termed “ smoking hot ” ; a blue smoke rising from the surface. A better result is obtained from this method ; the food, when cooked, has a nice even colour and is not so greasy. It is also more economical, the fat being strained and used several times. Steaming. The food to be steamed is not brought into contact with the hot water. This method should be used as far as possible when cooking for invalids, because very little of the nourishment escapes from the food. Fish, vegetables and puddings may be steamed. Stewing. Stewing is an economical and easy way of cook- ing. Small pieces of tough or sinewy meat may be made