500 FOURTH VENTRICLE. white on the surface, but contain grey matter in the interior: this grey matter is accumulated here for the purpose of giving origin to the optic nerves. For this reason a more appropriate term for them would be the " optic lobes," instead of the vulgar name of " nates and testes," handed down from the old anatomists.* Superior crura of the cerebellum or processus a cerebello ad testes.—By gently drawing back the cerebellum we observe two broad white cords, which pass backwards, slightly diverging from each other, from the corpora quadrigemina to the cerebellum. These are the superior crura of the cerebellum, and constitute the con- necting medium between the cerebrum and the cerebellum. Betwetn them extends a thin semi-transparent layer of grey matter, which covers the fourth ventricle. This layer is commonly called the valve of Vieussens, and from it the fourth nerve arises by several fila- ments. Iter a tertio ad guar turn ventriculum.—The third ventricle is connected with the fourth by means of a canal just large enough to admit a probe, which runs backwards beneath the posterior commis- sure and the corpora quadrigemina. This passage, together with the third and fourth ventricle, are persistent parts of the central canal, which, in early foetal life, extended all down the back of the spinal cord. The fourth ventricle is a cavity situated between the cerebellum and the posterior part of the medulla oblongata and pons Varolii. It is, properly speaking, a dilated portion of the primordial axis canal. To obtain a perfect view of its boundaries one should make a vertical section through the parts concerned. But in an ordinary dissection it is sufficient to make a vertical incision in the middle line through the cerebellum and the valve of Vieussens ; then, by # Eminences homologous to the corpora quadrigemina are found in all vertebrate animals : they are the meso-cephalic lobes: they invariably give origin to the optic nerves, and their size bears a direct relation to the power of sight. They are relatively smaller in man than in any other animal. In birds there are only two eminences, and these are very large, especially in those far-seeing birds which fly high, as the eagle, falcon, vulture, &c, who require acute sight to discern their prey at a distance*