160 STRUCTURE OF THE EYELIDS. the skin on the bridge of the nose; as, for instance, in the expression of surprise. Since the present is a fitting opportunity to examine the structure of the eyelids, we postpone for a short time the dissection of the remaining muscles of the face. Those who object to this inter- ruption are referred to § 63. 62. Structure of the eyelids.—The eyelids are composed of many different tissues arranged in successive strata one beneath the other; therefore they can be conveniently examined in their order of stratification. There is—1, the skin; 2, the orbicularis palpebrarum ; 3, the expanded tendon of the levator palpebrae (in the upper lid only) ; 4, the tarsal cartilage; 5, mucous membrane. These several structures are separated by an abundance of cellular tissue, which for very good reasons never contains fat. a. The skin of the eyelids is remarkably smooth and delicate, and in young persons so transparent that we can see the ramifica- tions of the subcutaneous vessels. When the eyes are open a deep fold is occasioned in the skin of the upper lid by its being more or less drawn under the edge of th^ orbit. b. The orbicularis palpebrarum has been already described. (See § 59.) c. The levator palpebrce is a long thin muscle, which arises in a pointed manner from the back of the orbit, gradually becomes broader, and terminates in a thin aponeurosis which spreads out over the tarsal cartilage, and is inserted into its ciliary margin. It will be more fully examined in the dissection of the orbit. d. Tarsal cartilages.—These are plates of fibro-cartilage which support and give the figure to the eyelids. There is one for the upper and another for the lower lid, and the two are connected at the angles (commissures or canthi) of the lids through the medium of fibrous tissue. One may best examine them by everting the lids. Each cartilage in great measure resembles its lid in form. The upper is therefore much the larger of the two, is broad in the middle, and gradually becomes narrower at either end; so that its figure is like a small segment of a circle, the arc of which is towards the brow, and the cord at the margin of the lid. The