131 SUBMAXILLARY REGION. process of the temporal bone. But this falls short of giving an adequate idea of its extent. Correctly speaking, it is a broad sheet of fascia which is attached to the angle of the jaw, and thence penetrates deeply inwards to be connected with the styloid process, the stylo-hyoid ligament, and the pharyngeal fascia. It forms a kind of barrier which stops the finger from passing behind the angle of the jaw to the tonsils and the back of the pharynx; and it is this fascia which prevents any accumulation of matter formed in the neighbourhood of the tonsils from making its way to the surface. It may be as well to mention that this so-called stylo- maxillary ligament intervenes between the submaxillary and the parotid glands. But not always so: in some subjects the two glands are directly connected. Reflect the anterior portion of the digastricus from its insertion into the jaw ; observe the branch of the mylo-hyoidean nerve which enters it in company with a branch of the sub-mental artery. Turn outwards the submaxillary gland. We have next to examine a muscle beneath it, called the mylo-hyoideus. 22. Mylo-hyoideus.—This muscle has a tendinous origin from a ridge on the inner surface of the lower jaw, extending from just below the last molar tooth obliquely downwards to within a short distance of the symphysis. The fibres successively increasing in length from before backwards, pass inwards towards the mesial line, and unite with the muscle of the opposite side by means of a delicate tendinous raphe ; but the posterior fibres are inserted into the body of the os-hyoides. Thus the muscles of opposite sides form by their union a muscular floor for the cavity of the mouth. In some cases the anterior fibres of the muscle are absent, and the sublingual gland is in consequence more or less exposed. Action,—The two muscles of opposite sides conjointly elevate the os-hyoides and the floor of the mouth; as, for instance, in the act of deglutition. Reflect the mylo-hyoideus from the mesial line and the os- hyoides, and turn it over the ramus of the jaw: we shall thus expose the following parts. In the mesial line the genio-hyoideus extends from the symphysis of the jaw to the body of the os- hyoides ; laterally, the hyo-glossus, a square flat muscle, ascends H