357 MUSCLES OF THE PERINEUM. 48. Muscles of the Perineum.—Accelerator urince. This muscle embraces the bulb of the urethra. To simplify the de- scription of it, let us consider it as arising from a sort of fibrous median seam or raphe beneath the bulb, and from the tendinous centre of the perineum. Starting from this origin, the fibres di- verge and are inserted as follows :—The anterior proceed on either side round the corpus cavernosum penis, like the branches of the letter V, and are fixed on its upper surface: the succeeding fibres completely embrace the bulb, like a ring, and meet in a tendon on the upper surface of the urethra; while the lower fibres are fixed on either side upon the deep perineal fascia, and perhaps a few upon the cms penis. Thus, then, the entire muscle acts as a powerful com- pressor of the bulb, and expels with violence the last drops of urine from this part of the urethra. By dividing the muscle along the middle line, and turning back one or other half, we can clearly make out its insertion as above described. a. Erectores penis,—These muscles are moulded, as it were, one upon each crus of the penis. Each muscle arises from the inner surface of the tuber ischii, and from the extremity of the great sacro-ischiatic ligament; the fibres ascend, completely covering the crus, and terminate on a strong aponeurosis, which is gradually lost on the corpus cavernosum penis. The action of these muscles is to compress the root of the penis, and so to contribute in some way to the erection of the organ. b. Transversi perinei.—These muscles are always of insignifi- . cant size. They arise one on each side from the tuber ischii, and proceed inwards towards the central point of the perineum, where they are generally blended with the fibres of the accelerator urinae. But they differ much in different subjects, are not always alike on both sides, and indeed are often absent. 49. A word or two must now be said respecting the space be- tween the anus and the ischium, called the ischio-rectal fossa. If all the fat be removed from the cavity, we notice that it is lined on all sides by fascia. In order to form a correct idea of its extent, the learner should examine it with his finger. Its area may be described as more or less triangular, with the apex deep in the pelvis, and the base below. The outer boundary is the ramus of