MUSCLES OF THE SHOULDEK. 70 arm. It dips down between the fibres of the muscle, dividing it into large bundles, and giving it a coarse appearance. 115. The deltoid muscle.—The great triangular muscle which covers the shoulder-joint is named deltoid, from its supposed resem- blance to the Greek A reversed. It arises from the external third of the clavicle, from the outer border of the acromion, and from the spine of the scapula down to the triangular surface at its root. This origin, which corresponds precisely to the insertion of the trapezius, is tendinous and fleshy every where, except at the com- mencement of the spine of the scapula, where it is simply tendinous, and connected with the infra-spinous aponeurosis. The muscular fibres descend, the anterior backwards, the posterior forwards, and the middle perpendicularly, so that all converge to a tendon which is inserted into a rough surface a little above the middle of the outer part of the humerus. The insertion of the tendon cannot be i'i\\]y seen till the muscle is reflected. It extends one inch and a half along the humerus, and terminates in a V shaped form, the origin of the brachialis anticus being on either side. Sometimes a few fibres of the pectoralis major are connected with its front border. The arrangement of the muscular bundles composing the deltoid is peculiar; a peculiarity arising from its broad origin and its comparatively narrow insertion. They are collected into triangular bundles of different sizes, of which the greater number and the larger have their bases at the origin of the muscle, and their apices towards the insertion. The intervals between these are occupied by smaller triangular bundles with their bases downwards. This arrangement requires the interposition of tendons between the bundles for the attachment of the muscular fibres. Accordingly, we find that three or four tendons descend from the acromion, and give origin to those triangular bundles of which the bases are downwards: on the other hand, prolongations from the tendon at the humerus ascend into the muscle, and receive the insertion of those bundles of which the bases are upwards. The action of the muscle is not only concentrated upon one point, but its power is also greatly increased, by this arrangement. Action.—It raises the arm; but it cannot do so to a greater