205 POSITION AND FORM OF THE LUNGS. animal recently killed and still warm, we see this moisture escaping in the form of a light smoke, but no actual fluid is observed in the chest. After the body has cooled, a certain quantity of serum oozes, by transudation, from the blood-vessels, and forms the " liquor pleurae." Like the cavity in which it is contained, each lung is rather conical in form. Its base, broad and concave, corresponds to the arch of the diaphragm, while its apex ascends, to the extent of an inch or more, into the root of the neck.: the surface corresponding to the ribs is convex,—that corresponding to the mesial line is more • or less concave, in adaptation to the form of the heart; and the left lung presents, at its lower and front border, an especial exca- vation for this organ. Each lung is commonly divided into an upper and a lower lobe by a long and deep fissure, which com- mences behind about three inches from the apex, and proceeds obliquely downwards to the front a little lower than the fifth costal cartilage. The upper lobe of the right lung is moreover divided by a second and smaller fissure, which passes from the larger one upwards and to the front, so as to slice off, as it were, a triangular portion, called the " middle lobe." But these fissures in the lungs are subject to considerable variety in their number and direction. We have seen as many as six in each lung. This multiplicity of the lobes reminds us of the normal condition of the lungs in the majority of animals.* The dimensions of the right are greater than that of the left lung in all directions excepting the vertical; and the reason of this exception is at once obvious, viz. the greater elevation of the diaphragm on the right side, by the bulk of the liver. On an average, the right lung is to the left, in point of size, as 11 to 10. Every practical surgeon should be able to define upon the walls of the chest the boundaries of the lungs, so that he may know what parts are naturally resonant on percussion. We will attempt to trace such a boundary line with something like precision, as far as the alternate expansion and contraction of the lung, during inspi- ration and expiration, will allow. * The dog, horse, ox, and sheep, have seven lobes.