STERNOCLAVICULAR JOINT. 92 the articular surfaces of the bones, it is plain that the security of the joint must depend upon the strength of its ligaments. There are two synovial membrane?, and an intervening fibro-cartilage. The anterior sternoclavicular ligament consists of a broad band of ligamentous fibres, which pass obliquely downwards and inwards over the front of the joint, from the anterior border of the end of the clavicle to the anterior surface of the sternum. A similar band, called the posterior sterno-clavicular ligament, extends over the back of the joint, from the posterior border of the clavicle to the posterior surface of the sternum. The clavicles are connected by what is called the inter-clavicular ligament. It extends transversely above the notch of the sternum, and has a broad attachment to the upper border of each clavicle. Between the clavicles it is more or less attached to the sternum, so that it forms a curve with the concavity upwards. The three ligaments just described are so closely connected, that, collectively, they form a complete fibrous capsule of great strength for the joint. A ligament, called the costo-clavicular or rhomboid, connects the clavicle to the cartilage of the first rib. It ascends from the cartilage of the rib to a rough surface beneath the sternal end of the clavicle. Its use is to limit the elevation of the clavicle. There is such constant movement between the clavicle and the cartilage of the first rib, that a well-marked bursa is commonly found between them. Inter-articular fibro-cartilage.—In order to see this, we must cut through the rhomboid, the anterior and posterior ligaments of the joint, and then raise the clavicle. It is nearly circular in form, and thicker at the circumference than the centre, in which there is sometimes a perforation. Inferiorly, it is attached to the cartilage of the first rib, close to the sternum; superiorly, to the upper part of the clavicle and the inter-clavicular ligament. Its circumference is inseparably connected with the fibrous capsule of the joint. The joint is provided with two synovial membranes : one is placed between the articular surface of the sternum and the inner surface of the fibro-cartilage; the other, between the articular surface of the clavicle and the outer surface of the fibro-cartilage.