MEMBRANES OE THE BRAIN, 482 skull-cap, the principal is the arteria meningea media, a branch of the internal maxillary (Head and neck, § 82). Entering the skull through the foramen spinosum, it winds along a deep groove in the sphenoid, and the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bones, to the top of the skull, giving off branches in all directions. It is accompanied by two veins. The other meningeal arteries are of insignificant size. The anterior come from the sethmoidal branches of the ophthalmic artery ; the posterior proceed from the occipital and the ascending pharyngeal branches of the external carotid, and enter the skull through the foramen jugulare. Besides being the internal periosteum of the skull, the dura mater serves other important purposes. It forms partitions within the cra- nium, so as to support the lobes of the brain, and prevent their press- ing on each other. These partitions cannot be properly seen without destroying the brain; it is better, therefore, to examine them in a dry skull, such an one as every anatomical museum contains. There are three of them : two are vertical, and separate the two hemispheres of the cerebrum and those of the cerebellum ; while the third is nearly horizontal, and supports the posterior cerebral lobes. The great vertical partition proceeding from the dura mater into the interior of the skull is named, from its resemblance to the blade of a sickle, the falx cerebri.* It divides the cerebrum into two symmetrical hemispheres—a right and a left. It begins in a point attached to the crista galli, and gradually penetrates deeper as it extends backwards. From its base or broadest part there proceeds the horizontal partition, named the tentorium cerebellu This forms a kind of membranous arch for the support of the posterior cerebral lobes, so that they may not press upon the cerebellum beneath them. We observe that the tentorium is attached to the transverse ridge of the occipital bone, to the petrous part of the temporal, and to the posterior clinoid processes of the sphenoid. * The falx cerebri is sometimes deficient, and then there is no division of the cerebrum into hemispheres. See a case recorded by Mr. Carlisle, in "Transactions of a Society for the Improvement of Medical and Chirurgical Knowledge," vol. i. p. 212.