476 LIGAMENTS OP THE ANKLE-JOINT. fibula, although it admits of but little movement. It is firmly secured by oblique ligaments in front and behind. The con- tiguous surfaces of the bones are crusted with cartilage. In the great majority of instances its synovial membrane is independent; but we now and then do meet with cases in which it communicates with the synovial membrane of the knee. The shafts of the bones are connected by the interosseous mem- brane. But the chief purpose of this is to afford additional surface for the attachment of muscles. Its component fibres cross each other like the letter X, and have openings here and there for the passage of blood-vessels. The lower ends of the tibia and fibula are most firmly con- nected, for it is obviously essential to the solidity of the ankle-joint that there be no motion between them. They are, therefore, secured by an oblique ligament in front and behind, and by strong ligamentous fibres which connect their contiguous surfaces, and answer the purpose of rivets. Besides these, we find that a strong fibro-cartilaginous ligament proceeds from the end of the fibula, and is attached along the posterior border of the articular surface of the tibia. The object of it is to deepen the excavation of the tibia, and enable it to adapt itself more accurately to the articular surface of the astragalus. 105. Ligaments of the ankle-joint. — From the very form of the bones, it is obvious that the ankle is a hinge joint j consequently, like all others of the kind, its chief security depends upon the great strength of its lateral ligaments. At the same time the hinge is not so perfect but that it admits of a slight rotatory motion, of which the centre is on the fibular side, and therefore the reverse of that in the case of the knee. The internal lateral ligament, sometimes called, from its shape, " deltoid," is exceedingly thick and strong, and makes up for the comparative shortness of the malleolus on this side. The great strength of it is proved by the fact, that in dislocations of the ankle inwards, the summit of the malleolus is more likely to be broken off than the ligament to be torn. It arises from a deep excavation on the inner side of the malleolus, radiates from this point, and is inserted into the side of the astragalus, and also into the os calcis,