330 PERITONEUM. the gastro-splenic omentum; from the transverse meso-colon it is reflected on either side over the ascending and descending colon. g. What pacts of the alimentary canal are only jjartially covered by peritoneum P—The descending and transverse portions of the duodenum without exception, the caecum, the ascending and descending colon with exceptional cases, and the lower part of the rectum. These points are not without practical interest. For instance, since the descending colon is closely connected to the lumbar region by loose cellular tissue, and has not, in the majority of cases, any peritoneal covering behind it, this part of the alimen- tary canal is available for the purpose of making an artificial anus. The gut can be easily reached by a longitudinal incision near the outer border of the quadratus lumborum. Again, the caecum being very liable to the accumulation of hardened faeces, is apt to engender the formation of an abscess in the cellular tissue which connects it to the right iliac fossa. The matter thus formed may either burst externally, or make its way into the bowel.* To give another instance. The absence of peritoneum from the posterior part of the caecum explains how a hernia may take place without a peritoneal sac. That part of the caecum bare of peri- toneum may protrude through the inguinal ring first; then, if more caecum should come down, this is quite likely to be more or less denuded of its natural peritoneal covering, which is but very loosely connected to the gut at the sides. In this way, then, it is possible to have a very large caecal hernia without any peritoneum before it, except j ust round the neck. The same thing may happen, mutatis mutandis, to the sigmoid flexure of the colon when it happens to be fixed in its iliac fossa like the caecum.-f * The proposal of opening the intestinal canal, as a last resource, at some point in the abdomen, so as to evacuate its contents, and establish an arti- ficial anus, was first made by Littre (Mem. de FAcad. des Sciences, 1720). He proposed to open the sigmoid flexure of the colon, in a case of imperforate anus. A successful case of the kind is recorded as having been performed on a boy twenty-four hours after birth by Duset. (Recueil period, de la Soc. de Med. de Paris, t. iv.) The same child was reported at the age of twelve to be in good health, with an artificial anus in the left iliac fossa. (Diet, des Sciences Med. t. xxiv.) f The best account of iliac abscesses is to be found in the " Lecons Orales" of Duypuytren.