SARTOUITJS. GRACILIS. 430 The next stage of the dissection consists in removing the mus- cular fascia from the front of the thigh, without disturbing the muscles from their relative position. Our chief object should be to learn the origin, insertion, and respective position of the muscles : for, without such previous knowledge, how can we expect to under- stand the course of the arteries? The mass of muscles on the inner side of the thigh consists of adductors; that in the middle, of extensors, while the long muscle which crosses obliquely over the front is the sartorius. This we will take first, being a sort of land mark to the rest. 16. Sartorius.—This muscle arises from the anterior superior spine of the ilium, and more or less of the ridge below. It passes obliquely, like a strap, over the front of the thigh towards the inner side, and then descends almost perpendicularly on the inner side of the knee, where it terminates in a tendon which widely expands and is inserted into the inner and front part of the tibia just below the tubercle. The tendon appears all the wider on account of its broad connection with the fascia of the leg. A large burso* is interposed between the tendon and the bone. The chief action of the muscle is to fix the pelvis steadily on the thigh. It can also cross one leg over the other, as tailors are in the habit of doing when sitting at work.f The most important practical point about the muscle is, that it overlaps the femoral artery in the middle of the thigh; and the inner border of the muscle is the guide to the vessel in the situa- tion where it is usually tied for a popliteal aneurism. 17. Gracilis.—Passing in the next place to the adductors on the inner side of the thigh, we should examine another long flat muscle, called the gracilis. To dissect it properly, it should be put on the stretch by separating one thigh from the other. It arises by a broad ribbon-like glistening tendon from the pubes * In persons, females especially, who are in the habit of riding, this bursa sometimes becomes enlarged. f Hence the name given to it by Spigelius (De corporis hum. fabric.) " Quem ego sartorium musculum vocare soleo, quod sartores eo maxiooe utuntur, dum crus cruri inter consuendum imponunt."