80 BACK OF THE POUE-AEM. A little below the middle of the fore-arm, the extensors of the wrist and fingers diverge from each other, leaving an interval, in which are seen the three extensors of the thumb—the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, the extensor primi internodii pollicis, and the extensor secundi internodii pollicis. The two former cross the radial extensors of the wrist, and pass over the lower third of the radial border of the fore-arm; a small portion of the latter com- monly appears on the outer side of the extensor communis digi- torum. Between the second and third extensors of the thumb, we observe a part of the lower end of the radius, which is not covered either by muscle or tendon. This subcutaneous portion of the bone, is immediately above the prominent tubercle in the middle of its lower extremity, and, since it can be easily felt through the skin, it pre- sents a convenient place for examination in doubtful cases of fracture. 132. The extensor carpi radialis longior muscle is partly covered by the supinator radii longus. It arises from the lower third of the ridge leading to the external condyle of the humerus, and from the intermuscular septum which separates it from the triceps. The muscle descends over the front surface of the capsule of the elbow-joint, along the outer side of the fore-arm, and termi- nates about, or a little above, the middle, in a broad flat tendon, which passes beneath the extensor ossis metacarpi and primi inter- nodii pollicis, traverses a groove on the outer and back part of the radius, lined by a distinct synovial membrane, and is inserted into the posterior part of the carpal end of the metacarpal bone of the index finger. Previously to its insertion, the tendon lies on the capsular ligament of the wrist, and is crossed by the extensor secundi internodii pollicis. Reflect this muscle from its origin, in order to see the following, which is situated beneath it. 133. The extensor carpi radialis brevior muscle arises from the external condyle, from part of the external lateral ligament of the elbow, and from a strong aponeurosis, which is continued for some distance on its deep surface. The muscular fibres terminate near the middle of the fore-arm, upon the under surface of a broad flat tendon, which descends, covered by that of the extensor carpi