84 FRONT OF THE FORE-ARM. is strengthened by aponeurotic fibres, from the tendons of the biceps on the inner, and the brachialis anticus on the outer side. The aponeurotic expansion derived from the inner edge of the tendon of the biceps is exceedingly strong, and of a semilunar form. It passes obliquely downwards and inwards, bracing the muscles on the inner side of the arm, and interlacing at right angles with the fibres of the fascia attached to the internal condyle. The relation which it bears to the brachial artery has been alluded to, ยง 29. Along the fore-arm the fascia is attached to the ridge on the pos- terior part of the ulna. At the back of the wrist it is firmly con- nected with the ridges on the lower end of the radius, and forms the posterior annular ligament. On the front of the wrist it is continued into the anterior annular ligament. The under surface of the fascia gives origin to the muscular fibres in the upper part of the fore-arm, and sends off a number of septa, which separate the muscles and form so many distinct sheaths, of which the presence is indicated by whitish lines on the surface. The fascia presents numerous foramina for the passage of vessels and nerves. Over the fossa, at the bend of the elbow, it is very thin and almost deficient, so as to admit of a free communica- tion between the subcutaneous and deep cellular tissue of the fore-arm. 48. Make a vertical incision through the fascia, and remove it from the muscles, only as far as this can be done without injury to the muscular fibres which arise from its under surface. The muscles of the fore-arm are arranged in two groups: the pronators and flexors attached to the internal condyle, the supinators and extensors to the external. They form two sides of a triangular space in front of the elbow, bounded by the pronator teres on the ulnar, and the supinator longus on the radial side. This space contains the brachial artery and its two veins, with the tendon of the biceps on its outer, and the median nerve on its inner side. The nerve does not always lie close to the artery; it may be distant, as much as half an inch from it. Sometimes the nerve lies immediately superficial to the artery, and very rarely to its outer side. Deep in the groove between the brachialis anticus and