210 PNETJMO-GASTRIC NERVES. The oesophagus is composed of two coats, a muscular and a mucous; and these are very loosely connected together by firm cel- lular tissue, which some anatomists describe as a distinct membrane. The muscular coat consists of an outer longitudinal, and an inner circular layer of fibres. The longitudinal layer is particularly strong, and arranged all round the oesophagus so as to support the circular. The mucous membrane is of a pale colour, and con- siderable thickness, and in the contracted state of the oesophagus is arranged in longitudinal folds. It is protected by a thick layer of scaly epithelium. In the submucous tissue are found a number of small glands, especially towards the lower end of the oesophagus. 116. Course and branches of the pneumogastric nerves.—We must in the next place trace the course and branches of the pneumogastric nerves through the chest. The right pneumogastric nerve, entering the chest between the subcla- vian artery and vein, descends by the side of the trachea, and then behind the right bronchus to the posterior surface of the oesophagus, upon which it divides into many branches, which form a plexus (posterior oesophageal) upon the tube. The left pneumogastric nerve descends into the chest between the left subclavian and the left carotid arteries, crosses in front of the arch of the aorta, and then passes behind the root of the lung to the anterior surface of the oesophagus, upon which it also forms a plexus (anterior oesopha- geal). The branches of the pneumogastric nerve in the chest are as follows:— a. The inferior laryngeal or recurrent.—This nerve on the right side turns under the subclavian artery, on the left under the arch of the aorta, and ascends to the larynx. b. Cardiac branches.—These are very small, and join the cardiac plexus. c. Pulmonary branches.—These accompany the bronchial tubes. The greater number are seen behind the root of the lung, forming the posterior pulmonary plexus. A few only, forming the anterior pulmonary plexus, proceed over the front of the lung's root. Both these plexuses are joined by filaments from the sympathetic system.