MUSCLES OP MASTICATION. 177 One of them (external pterygoid) passes horizontally outwards and backwards towards the condyle of the jaw ; the other (internal pterygoid) descends backwards to the angle. Below the inferior border of the external pterygoid muscle two large nerves (the gustatory and the dental branch of the inferior maxillary) are observed crossing the fibres of the internal pterygoid, At the same time a satisfactory view is presented of the origin of the buccinator, (see § 69) of the buccal fascia, and the molar glands. It is through the space now before us that the internal maxillary artery will be seen pursuing a very tortuous course either between the two pterygoid muscles or external to both. But we will first examine the muscles. 81. External pterygoid.—This muscle consists of two portions, an upper and a lower, more or less distinct, and commonly sepa- rated near their origin by the internal maxillary artery. The lower portion, by far the larger of the two, arises from the outer surface of the external pterygoid plate of the sphenoid bone; the upper from the great wing of the sphenoid bone, below its crest. The fibres of the muscle pass horizontally outwards and backwards, slightly converging, and are most of them inserted into a depression observable on the front surface of the neck of the jaw imme- diately below the condyle. Some few, however, of the fibres are directly implanted along the front border of the inter-articular fibro-cartilage, in order that it may never be separated from the condyle during the several movements of the jaw. a. The internal pterygoid arises from the fossa between the pterygoid plates of the sphenoid bone, but chiefly from the inner surface of the external plate ; it also arises from both sides of the tuberosity of the palate bone, which respectively assist in forming the external and internal pterygoid fossae. The fibres descend outwards and backwards, and are inserted into a rough surface on the inner side of the angle of the jaw. The pterygoid muscles are very similar to the masseter in structure; that is to say, we find that, both at their origin and , insertion, a number of tendinous septa are interposed between the muscular fibres, manifestly for the purpose of affording an increase