MUSCLES OF THE FACE. 159 lorm a soft cushion in front of the orbit. The cushion itself may be severely injured, as is seen in the common occurrence of a " black eye," so called, but the globe generally escapes unhurt. When the eye is simply closed, as in the act of winking, only the palpebral portion of the muscle is used. It need scarcely be men- tioned that the object of this movement is to moisten the tran- sparent coat of the eye, and remove any foreign particles from its surface. The reason why the upper lid descends is because the fixed point of the muscle is below the middle of the eye, and the least knowledge of mechanics is sufficient to explain how the motion is effected with such rapidity. a. Tensor tarsi (musculus sacci lacrymalis).—This has been particularly described by Hornef,* an American anatomist; hence it is sometimes called Horner's muscle. In point of fact it should not be considered a distinct muscle, but rather as a portion of the ciliaris. If the fibres of this muscle be carefully traced at the inner angle of the eye, it may be observed that some of them are prolonged backwards behind the tendo oculi, so as to be attached to the ridge on the lacrymal bone. The muscle, by pressing the tarsal cartilages against the globe of the eye, is presumed to facilitate the entrance of the tears into the lacrymal ducts. 60. Corrugator supercilii.—To see this muscle, the orbicularis must be reflected from the upper and inner margin of the orbit. It arises by fleshy fibres from the superciliary ridge of the frontal bone immediately above the nasal bone. The fibres ascend obliquely outwards, and are lost in the under surface of the orbicu- laris and occipito-frontalis muscles. It is the proper muscle of frowning. 61. Pyramidalis nasi.-—This muscle is situated on the dorsum of the nose on each side of the mesial line, and may very fairly be regarded as a prolongation of the occipito-frontalis. It diverges from its fellow as it descends and mingles with the fibres of the triangularis nasi. The action of this slip of muscle is to elevate * Philadelphia Journal, Nov. 1824. But this muscle was accurately de- scribed by Rosenmiiller in his Handbuch der Anatomic Leipzig, 1819.