BACK OF THE FORE-ARM. 90 a. The transverse metacarpal ligament consists of strong bands of ligamentous fibres, which pass transversely between the digital extremities of the metacarpal bones of the fingers. These bands are intimately united to the fibro-cartilaginous ligament of the metacarpal joints, and are of sufficient length to admit of a certain degree of movement between the ends of the metacarpal bones. Remove the fascia which covers the interosseous muscles, and separate the metacarpal bones by dividing the transverse metacarpal ligament. A bursa is frequently developed in the cellular tissue, between their digital extremities. 150. Interosseous muscles.—These muscles, so named from their position, extend from the sides of the metacarpal bones to the first phalanges and the extensor tendons of the fingers. In each inter- osseous space there are two, one of which is an abductor, the other an adductor of a finger. According to this arrangement there ought to be eight: but since the adductor pollicis (first palmar interosseous) is usually described as a separate muscle, there remain only seven, four of which, situated on the back of the hand, are called dorsal; the remainder, seen only in the palm, are called palmar. Each dorsal interosseous muscle arises from the opposite sides of two metacarpal bones, but more extensively from the metacarpal bone of the finger which the muscle moves. From this double origin the fibres converge to a tendon, which commences in the middle of the muscle, passes between the metacarpal joints of the fingers, and is inserted into the side of the first phalanx: it is also connected by a broad expansion with the extensor tendon on the back of the finger. The two portions of the double origin are separated by the perforating branch of the deep palmar arch (see § 98, a). The first dorsal interosseous muscle (abductor indicis) is larger than the others, and occupies the interval between the thumb and fore-finger. It arises from the upper half of the ulnar side of the first metacarpal bone, and from the entire length of the radial side of the second: between the two origins, the radial artery passes into the palm. Its fibres converge on either side to a tendon, which is inserted into the radial side of the first phalanx of the index finger and its extensor tendon.