DEEP STRATUM OF THE PERINEUM. 358 the ischium with the obturator internus muscle; the inner boundary is the rectum and the levator ani; posteriorly it is overlapped by the glutseus maximus. The external hemorrhoidal vessels and nerves which cross the space have been already alluded to. An inspection of these deep recesses on either side of the rectum explains the great size which abscesses in this situation may attain, and also the difficulty of curing them when of long standing ; for the boundaries of the recess are of such a nature that we cannot maintain them in permanent apposition. There is the constantly varying size of the rectum on the one hand, and the immoveable wall of the pelvis on the other. These facts should impress upon us the necessity of making a free opening into these abscesses at an early stage, before they have formed a large cavity, denuded the rectum, and possibly made way into it by ulceration. 50. Structures surrounding the urethra in its pas- sage through the pubic arch.—Returning to the urethral triangle, let us next examine the deepest stratum of the perineum, or what may be appropriately called its floor. This, in every point of view, is the most important part of our subject, since it com- prises the anatomy of the structures which surround the urethra in its passage beneath the pubic arch. It need scarcely be said that this part of the urethra demands special attention ; for here the incision is made in lithotomy, here is the most frequent seat of stricture, &c. Notwithstanding its practical interest, the anatomy of this part is seldom thoroughly understood, because it is a kind of neutral ground between the perineum and the pelvis, and because authors differ in their description of it. To make the matter as intelligible as possible, we will first give a brief sketch of the general plan upon which this stratum is con- structed, and then examine separately its constituent parts. First, then, as to what may be called the groundwork of the stratum itself. Supposing that the cura penis, with their respective muscles, be raised from their attachment to the bone,—and this, by the way, requires an experienced hand,—we then observe that the pubic arch is blocked up by a plane of muscular fibres passing from one side of the arch to the other. This muscular plane is covered by a fascia, called the deep perineal, which not only gives strength