MEMBRANES OF THE BRAIN. 486 dura mater; and it is named arachnoid from the great tenderness and delicacy of its tissue, which give it a resemblance to a spider s web. It is a serous membrane, and, like all others of the kind, forms a closed sac, one part of which, called the parietal layer, lines the under surface of the dura mater; the other, called the visceral, covers the surface of the brain. The inner surface of this serous* membrane is perfectly smooth, and lubricated by sufficient moisture to prevent friction, since the brain is alternately rising and falling with a slight pulsating movement, caused in part by the action of the heart, and in part by the process of respiration. The parietal layer is of such extreme tenuity that it can only be demonstrated in very early life : indeed, it consists of little more than a layer of epithelium ; but the visceral layer is sufficiently obvious. We observe that it is colourless and transparent, and that it is spread uni- formly over the surface of the brain, without insinuating itself be- tween the convolutions, or entering the ventricles. On account of its extreme tenuity, and its close adhesion to the pia mater, it cannot be readily separated from this membrane ; but there are certain parts at the base of the brain where the arachnoid membrane can be seen quite distinct from the subjacent tunic. Pia mater.—This is the immediate investing membrane of the brain, It is extremely vascular : indeed, it consists of little else than the minute ramifications of arteries connected by cellular tissue; so that it forms a stratum in which the blood-vessels may divide and subdivide before they enter the brain.-f If we attempt to remove it from the surface we find that it sinks down to the bottom of all the convolutions ; and, in the further dissection of the brain, it will be seen that this membrane penetrates into * Mr. Rainey considers that the arachnoid membrane consists of a tissue of ganglionic nerves. See his paper in the Medieo-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. xxix. p. 85. f It is one of the protective provisions of the circulation in the delicate substance of the brain, that the arteries break up into small ramifications on the surface before they penetrate its interior. When carefully injected, it is seen that the blood-vessels of the pia mater form minute angular spaces, frcm which the vessels pass off at right angles into the brain.