DISSECTION OF THE TESTIS. 543 cle, for the purpose of corrugating the loose and extensible integu- ment, and, therefore, of supporting and bracing the testicles. Beneath the dartos is the superficial fascia, consisting of a large quantity of loose cellular tissue, and remarkable for the total absence of fat: it forms a vertical partition between the testicles, called the septum sci^oti. This partition is not complete, since air or fluid will pass from one side to the other. Beneath the superficial fascia is the cremaster, or suspensory muscle of the testicle. For a description of this, see Dissection of the Abdomen, § 9. Testis.—The testicle is a gland of an oval shape, with flattened sides, suspended obliquely, so that the upper end points forwards and outwards, the lower end in just the reverse direction ; the left is generally a little the lower of the two, for the purpose of obviating collision with its fellow. The ordinary weight of the gland is about six drachms, but few organs present greater variations in size and weight, even in men of the same age : generally speaking, also, the left is the larger. Along the posterior part of the gland is placed a long narrow body, termed the epididymis: this is not actually a part of the testicle, but rather an appendage to it, formed by the remarkable convolutions of its long excretory duct. Its upper larger end is called the globus major, and is connected to the testicle by the efferent ducts; the lower end, or globus minor, is only con- nected to the testicle by fibrous tissue. We next come to speak of the proper coverings of the testicle. These are—1, a serous membrane, called the tunica vaginalis, to facilitate its movements ; 2, a strong fibrous membrane, called the tunica albuginea, to support and form a case for the delicate glan- dular structure within; 3, a delicate stratum of minute blood- vessels, which some anatomists have described.as a distinct coat under the name of tunica vasculosa. Tunica vaginalis.—This is a serous sac, one part of which (tunica vaginalis propria) adheres closely to the testicle ; the other (tunica vaginalis reflexa) is reflected loosely around it. If the sac be laid open, we then see that it completely covers the testi-