512 SPINAL NERVES. rior are motor columns, the posterior sensitive, while the lateral most probably contain both motor and sensitive filaments. If we make a transverse section through the cord, we find that its interior contains grey matter, arranged in the form of two cres- cents placed one in each half of it, with their convexities towards each other, and connected across the centre by a portion called the grey commissure.* The posterior horns of the crescents are long and narrow, and extend to the posterior lateral fissure, where they are connected with the posterior roots of the spinal nerves. The anterior horns are shorter and thicker, and come forwards towards the line of attachment of the anterior roots of the nerves, but do not quite reach the surface. Spinal nerves.— Thirty-one pair of nerves arise from the spinal cord,—namely, 8 in the cervical region, 12 in the dorsal, 5 in the lumbar, 5 in the sacral, and 1 in the coccygeal. Each nerve comes off by two distinct series of roots,—one from the front, the other from the back of the cord. Experimental physiology proves that the anterior consists of motor filaments, the posterior of sen- sitive. All converge and unite in the corresponding intervertebral foramen to form a single nerve, composed of both motor and sensi- tive filaments. The posterior or sensitive roots proceed from the posterior lateral groove of the cord, and are, upon the whole, thicker and more numerous than the anterior.* But the most remarkable thing about * The grey matter in the interior of the cord of man and animals presents somewhat different appearances in its different parts. These have been accu- rately described and figured by Rolando, Richerche Anatomiche sulla Struttura del Midollo Spinale, con Figure, art. Tratto dal Dizionario Periodico di Medicina. Torino, 1824, 8vo. p. 55. f The researches of Blandin, Anat. descript. t. ii., p. 648, 1838, have led him to establish the following relation between the respective size of the anterior and posterior roots of the nerves in the several regions of the spine The posterior roots are to the anterior in the cervical region : : 2 : 1 „ ,, ,, dorsal ,, : : 1 : 1 „ ,, ,, lumbar and sacral : : 1£ : 1 This relation quite accords with the greater delicacy of the sense of touch in the upper extremity.