494 CORPUS STRIATUM. elevation, of a pyramidal form, called the corpus striatum, 2. Be- hind this, a white elevation called the thalamus opticus: of this we at present only see a part. 3. Along the boundary line be- tween the corpus striatum and the thalamus opticus there runs a slender, transparent, hom-like substance, called the toenia semicir- cular is. 4. On the back part of the thalamus opticus there is a red fringe called the choroid plexus. It is formed by foldings of the pia mater continued into the ventricles. 5. Immediately behind, and nearly parallel with the choroid plexus, lies the thin white edge or free border of the fornix. 6. In the middle or descending horn we find that the choroid plexus runs down to the base of the brain; and there is also a columnar eminence which stands out in relief on the back part of the cavity; to this the fan- ciful term " hippocampus major" has been applied.* 8. In the posterior horn there is a smaller elevation of the surface called the ee hippocampus minor." These hippocampal elevations are nothing more than deep convolutions which project into the ventricles. By cutting through the white matter on their surface, we soon come to the cortical substance of the brain. Having thus far only learned the mere names of the parts in the lateral ventricles, we must now consider them a little more in detail, and also the transparent septum (septum lucidum) by which the two lateral ventricles are separated. The corpus striatum is so called, because, when cut into, it is seen to consist of alternate layers of white and grey matter, f It is a much larger mass of grey substance than it appears to be, for only # The lower end of the hippocampus major is somewhat expanded and indented on the surface, so as to resemble the paw of an animal. Hence the name given to it, "pes hippocampi " f The white lines in the corpus striatum are produced by the fibres of the crus cerebri, which traverse this mass of grey matter before they expand to form the hemisphere. The grey matter itself is sometimes called the anterior cerebral ganglion. It is found in all mammalia, in birds, and, to a certain extent, in reptiles; but its precise function is still unknown.