530 DISSECTION OF THE EYE. nately long and short, and arranged in a radiated manner round the circumference of the lens. The entire ring is called the ciliary body ; and the folds of it in front, the ciliary processes. The processes are kept in place by being attached to the ciliary liga- ment : they fit into corresponding depressions in the vitreous humour, and their free ends project for a short, distance into the posterior chamber. They consist of convolutions of minute arteries, and their dark colour arises from the pigment on their surface. Their use is unknown. Chambers of the Eye. Aqueous humour.—The aqueous humour consists of a few drops of clear watery fluid, which occupies the space between the cornea and crystalline lens. The iris floats freely in it, and divides the space into two compartments or chambers of unequal size—an anterior and a posterior. The posterior is much the smaller of the two : indeed, the iris is so close to the lens that they are sepa- rated by a mere film of fluid. This accounts for the frequent adhesions which are apt to take place, during inflammation, between the pupil and the capsule of the crystalline. Some anatomists describe the anterior chamber as lined by a serous membrane, which they call the membrane of the aqueous humour. It is true that there is a delicate layer of epithelium on the posterior surface of the cornea, but nothing like a continuous serous membrane can be demonstrated on the iris or the capsule of the lens. The anterior chamber is remarkable for the rapidity with which it absorbs and secretes, as is proved in the one case by the speedy removal of extravasated blood, and, in the other, by the rapid reappearance of the aqueous humour after the extraction of a cataract. Vitreous humour.—This is a beautifully transparent, gelati- nous-looking substance, which fills up nearly four-fifths of the interior of the globe. It consists of a watery fluid contained in the meshes of a cellular structure, called the " hyaloid membrane," from its perfect translucency: the cells communicate freely with