334 ARTERIES OF THE VISCERA. The vena portse, then, may be compared to the stem of a tree, of which the roots arise in the digestive organs, and the brandies spread out in the liver. Eventually all the blood from the liver returns into the vena cava through the vense cavse hepaticse. The veins which empty themselves into the vena portae are also peculiar, in that they have no valves. Therefore, if any obstruc- tion arise in the venous circulation through the liver, the roots of the portal vein are apt to become congested: this is a common cause of hemorrhoids, diarrhoea, hemorrhage from the bowels, and ascites. Again, leeches applied to the anus have been long recog- nised as beneficial in congestion of the liver. 26. Bile duct.—The hepatic duct is soon joined by the cystic, or the duct from the gall-bladder. The common duct, ductus communis choledochus, thus formed, passes along the right edge of the lesser omentum, then behind the first portion of the duode- num, and opens obliquely into the back part of the second portion. This common duct is from three to four inches long, and, if dis- tended, would be about the size of a small writing quill.* The superior mesenteric artery comes next under consideration. The great omentum, with the arch of the colon, must be turned up over the chest, and the small intestines should be pushed towards the left side. Then, by simply removing a layer of peritoneum from the mesentery, we expose the mode in which this great artery ramifies so as to supply the small intestines. In making this dis- section, the mesenteric glands immediately attract notice. They lie in great numbers between the layers of the mesentery, and vary considerably in size. The fine tubes, called lacteal vessels, which traverse the glands, are too thin and transparent to be seen under ordinary circumstances. But in cases where sudden death has taken place during digestion, they are found distended with chyle, and can be traced into the glands from all parts of the small intes- tines.f After traversing the glands, they all eventually empty their contents into the receptaculum chyli. * That the gall-duct admits of being sometimes distended to a much larger size, is proved by the passage of large gall-stones. f The arrangement of the chyliferous vessels is extremely well displayed in the beautiful plates of Mascagni.