246 CRICOID AND ARYTENOID CARTILAGES. b. Cricoid cartilage,—This cartilage,named from its resemblance to a ring,* is situated immediately below the thyroid. It is not exactly circular, being rather broader in the antero-posterior diameter. It is narrow in front, where it may be felt in the neck about one quarter of an inch below the thyroid cartilage ; from this part, however, the upper border gradually rises, so that, pos- teriorly, the ring is a full inch in its vertical depth, and occupies part of the interval left by the alse of the thyroid cartilage. In the middle of this broad posterior surface is seen a vertical ridge, on either side of which there is a superficial excavation for the origin of the crico-arytenoidei postici. On its upper part are two oval, slightly convex surfaces for the articulation of the arytenoid cartilages. In front, its upper border presents a broad excavation, to which the crico-thyroid ligament is attached. The lower border has a slightly undulating outline, and is connected by elastic membrane to the first ring of the trachea. The thyroid is connected to the cricoid cartilage in front by the crico-thyroid membrane, and laterally by its two inferior horns. Between these two cartilages there is a perfect joint on either side, provided with a synovial membrane, and secured by ligaments. This joint permits the approximation of the adjacent borders of the thyroid and cricoid cartilages, and it deserves especial attention, because upon this movement the due degree of tension is given to the vocal cords. c. Arytenoid cartilages.—These cartilages are situated, one on either side, at the back of the larynx on the top of the cricoid. When viewed in the fresh state, before the membranes and muscles have been removed, the space left between them bears some re- semblance to the lip of a ewer,f and from this fancied resemblance their name is derived. Each is triangular in form, with the apex superiorly and slightly bent backwards towards the pharynx. Its posterior surface is concave, and gives attachment to the arytenoid muscle. Its base presents an oval surface, which articulates with the cricoid cartilage. This joint is perfectly formed, and capable of limited motion in all directions, something like that of the first * Kp'iKos, a ring. t 'ApvTawa, a ewer.