THYROID BODY. 122 in the left vena innominata. The size of these latter veins, and the possible existence of a middle thyroid artery, should be borne in mind in the performance of tracheotomy. Its nerves are furnished by the laryngeal branch of the pneumo- gastric and the cervical ganglia of the sympathetic. They are of small size, and accompany the arteries. Structure.—The thyroid body is invested by a very thin cover- ing of condensed cellular tissue, which penetrates into its interior, and divides it into more or less distinct lobes. The interior of the organ consists of a multitude of vesicles which do not communicate with each other, and vary considerably in size. Some of them may be recognised with the naked eye; but the greater number require the aid of the microscope. In hypertrophy of the gland we sometimes see here and there one as large as a horse-bean, or even larger. They contain a glairy transparent fluid, full of nu- cleated cells. The ultimate branches of the arteries ramify most minutely upon their walls. Of its function nothing is with cer- tainty known. A particular part of the under surface of the organ is closely conn ected by fibrous tissue to the first rings of the trachea and the cricoid cartilage. We may easily be satisfied of this by di- viding the isthmus and turning back one half of it. This con- nexion is deserving of notice, because it explains the reason why the thyroid body accompanies the larynx in the movement of deglutition. If, now, the relations of the different lobes of the thyroid body to the trachea and oesophagus be properly understood, there can be no difficulty in predicating the consequences which mav result from their enlargement. Of course, the nature and severity of the symptoms will be, to a certain extent, determined by the particular part of the organ affected. For instance, if the isthmus be the seat of disease, difficulty in breathing will probably be the most promi- nent symptom; and an enlargement of the left lobe is more likely to produce a difficulty in swallowing, on account of the greater inclination of the oesophagus towards the left side. An instance is related by Allan Burns in which the isthmus con- necting the two lateral lobes was placed between the trachea and