488 PLAtfTAR ARTERIES ANt) NERVES, done, we have a full view of the plantar vessels and nerves, of the long flexor tendon of the great toe, and of the long flexor tendon of the other toes, as well as its accessory muscle. 89. Tendon of the Jlexor longus digitorum. Musculus acces~ sorius.—Tracing this tendon into the sole, we find that an accessory muscle is attached to it. The muscle arises from the inner side of the os calcis, and it has often a second tendinous origin from the outer side of the bone. Its fibres run straight forwards, and are inserted into the fibular side of the tendon, so that their action is not only to assist in bending the toes, but also to make the common tendon pull in a straight line towards the heel, which, from its oblique direction, it would not do without this accessory muscle. The com- mon tendon then divides into four, one for each of the four outer toes. These run, as before observed, in the same sheath with the short tendons, and after passing through them are inserted into the base of the ungual phalanx. Respecting the manner in which the tendons are confined by fibrous sheaths, and lubricated by a synovial lining, what was said of the fingers applies equally to the toes. a. Lumbricales.—These are four little muscles, placed between the long flexor tendons. Each, excepting the most internal, arises from the adjacent sides of two tendons, proceeds forwards, and then sinking between the toes, terminates in an aponeurosis which joins the extensor tendon on the dorsum of the toes. 90. In the next place let us trace the long flexor tendon of the great toe. From the groove in the astragalus it runs along the groove in the lesser tuberosity of the os calcis, and then straight to the base of the last phalanx of the great toe. We observe that it crosses the long flexor tendon of the toes, and that the two tendons are generally connected by an oblique slip, so that we cannot bend the other toes without the great toe. 91. Plantar arteries and nerves.—The posterior tibial artery, having entered the sole between the origins of the abductor pollicis, divides into the external and internal plantar arteries. To understand the course and relations of each, it is necessary to re- place all the reflected muscles in their proper position. a. The internal plantar artery is a very small one: it passes