THE UPPER ARM. 20 rous cutaneous veins, and the basilic has frequent communications with the deep brachial veins. 27. The relative position of the internal and external cu- taneous nerves with regard to the veins at the bend of the arm is subject to some irregularity. Most commonly the trunks of the nerves pass beneath the veins, but often, though the principal branches go beneath the vessels, many small filaments cross in front of them which are exposed to injury in venesection. The internal cutaneous nerve certainly passes more frequently superficial to the vein than the external. The external cutaneous nerve has been seen passing through a distinct foramen in the median cephalic vein. Since the median basilic vein is generally larger than the median cephalic, and, on account of the strong fascia beneath, more easily compressible, it is usually chosen for venesection : its position, therefore, in reference to the brachial artery, becomes very impor- tant. The vein crosses obliquely in front of the artery, from which it is only separated by the fascia derived from the tendon of the biceps. This fascia is in some subjects remarkably thin, or it may be altogether wanting. It sometimes happens that the brachial artery, or the radial, lies above the fascia, in absolute contact with the median basilic vein. In choosing, therefore, this vein for venesection, there is a risk of wounding the artery : hence the practical rule, to bleed either from the median cephalic, or at any rate from the median basilic above or below the situation where it crosses the brachial artery. Immediately above the internal condyle, in the neighbour- hood of the basilic vein, are usually found one or two small sub- cutaneous absorbent glands. One or two others may lie higher up along the inner side of the arm. A superficial gland has also been seen at the bend of the elbow : none are found below this joint. These little glands on the inner side of the arm are generally the first which become tender and enlarged after an injury to the hand. Remove the superficial fascia in order to examine the proper investing fascia of the upper arm. Preserve the chief cutaneous veins and nerves. 28. The dense aponeurosis which invests the upper arm may be