507 ARTERIES OF THE BRAIN. between the hemispheres, curves round the front part of the corpus callosum, and then runs backwards along the upper surface of it. It distributes branches in all directions. The anterior cerebral arteries of opposite sides run close together, and at the base of the brain are connected by a short branch called the anterior commu- nicating. The middle cerebral artery runs deeply along the fissure of Silvius, distributing numerous and large branches to the anterior and middle lobes. The vertebral artery, after winding backwards along the arch of the atlas, enters the skull through the foramen magnum, and unites with its fellow at the lower border of the pons to form the basilar. This single vessel proceeds along the middle of the pons, and di- vides at the upper border of it into the two posterior cerebral arteries for the supply of the posterior cerebral/lobes, In its course along the pons, the vortobral gives off on either side— a. The auditory artery, which enters the meatus auditorius with the auditory nerve. h. The superior and inferior cerebellar arteries, for the supply of the upper and lower surfaces of the cere- bellum. Its terminal branches—the two posterior cerebral—run back- wards, one on the under surface of each posterior cerebral lobe, dividing into numerous branches, which ultimately inosculate with the other cerebral arteries. But the principal inosculating branch of the posterior cerebral is called the posterior communicating. It proceeds straight forwards to the internal carotid, and thus esta- blishes at the base of the brain that free inosculation of the large arteries which is called the " circle of Willis" The circle of Willis, then, is completed, in front, by the anterior communicating artery (between the two anterior cerebral), and be- hind by the posterior communicating (from the posterior cerebral to the carotid). The tortuosity of the large arteries before they enter the brain is obviously intended to mitigate the force of the heart's action; and the circle of Willis provides a free supply of