INTERCARPAL JOINT. 101 The bones, constituting each row, are united by ligaments placed on their palmar and dorsal surfaces, and by others, placed between the bones, and hence called interosseous. Their contiguous sur- faces (those of the pisiform and cuneiform excepted), are covered by the reflections of one synovial membrane. The upper row is united by transverse ligaments proceeding from the scaphoid to the .semilunar bone, and from the semilunar to the cuneiform, both on their dorsal and palmar surfaces: also, by interosseous ligaments, proceeding from the semilunar to the bones on either side of it. The pisiform bone is articulated to the palmar surface of the cunei- form bone, to which it is united by a fibrous capsule. Inferiorly, it is attached by two strong ligaments, the one to the unciform bone, the other to the carpal end of the fifth metacarpal bone. This little articulation has, in the great majority of cases, a dis- tinct synovial membrane : but, in some rare instances, it commu- nicates with the radio-carpal joint. The lower row of carpal bones is connected precisely in the same way as the upper. The dorsal and palmar ligaments pass transversely from one to the other. There are only two inter- osseous ligaments, one on either side of the os magnum; they are much thicker and stronger than those of the upper row, and unite the bones more firmly together. 160. Intercarpal joint.—The upper row of carpal bones is arranged in the form of an arch, so as to receive the corre- sponding convex surfaces of the os magnum and unciforme. Ex- ternally to the os magnum, the trapezium and trapezoid bones present a slightly concave surface, which articulates with the scaphoid. In this way a joint capable of flexion and extension is formed between the upper and lower row. It is secured by an- terior, posterior, and two lateral ligaments, which are sufficiently loose to admit of the motion required. The anterior ligament consists of strong ligamentous fibres, which pass obliquely from the bones of the upper to those of the lower row. The posterior ligament consists of oblique and transverse fibres, which connect the dorsal surfaces of the bones of the upper with the lower row. T 2