514 MINUTE STRUCTURE OF THE CORD. down the front of the cord, receiving accessory branches in its course from the vertebral, the intercostal, and the lumbar arteries. 2. The posterior spinal arteries, which proceed also from the verte- bral, intercostal, and lumbar arteries, and ramify very irregularly on the back of the cord. Minute structure of the spinal cord.—The examination of this subject is attended with so much difficulty and nicety, that much difference of opinion exists even among the best observers. One of the first questions which naturally arises is this—What becomes of the roots of the spinal nerves after they have entered the cord ? The probable answer to it is as follows:—The anterior and poste- rior roots pass horizontally into the grey matter of the cord, but do not terminate in it. The fibres of the anterior roots then proceed in two directions; one set run across through the anterior commis- sure of the cord, and are continued upwards with the anterior columns of the opposite side; so that, in point of fact, the anterior commissure consists of the decussation of the anterior columns of the cord. The other set of fibres do not decussate, but run up directly with the lateral columns of their own side. With regard to the posterior roots, they pass horizontally in- wards through the posterior horn of the grey matter, and then ascend, chiefly with the posterior columns, but partly also with the lateral columns. Some of the fibres may even be traced through the grey commissure into the posterior column of the opposite side. Another interesting question is—Do the roots of the nerves ter- minate near that part of the cord which they enter, or are they con- tinued up through the cord to the brain ? The great probability is, that at least most of them ascend to the brain, though they have not hitherto been traced there uninterruptedly. In support of this the old doctrine, Kolliker adduces the following reasons, against Volk- mann, who advocates the other side of the question : — 1. It has been ascertained by accurate measurement in the human subject that the white substance of the cord gradually in- creases in its dimensions from below upwards, the enlargement in the lower cervical and dorsal regions being due to an increase of the grey matter in the interior.