PAUTS CONCERNED IN INGUINAL HERNIA. 315 pubes: its size and shape vary a little in different individuals. Without pretending to. minute accuracy, we may say that it is an oval opening, with the long axis directed obliquely downwards, and that it will admit the passage of a finger.* These remarks, of course, apply exclusively to the male subject; in the female the opening is much smaller, and transmits only the round ligament of the uterus. The sides of the opening are usually called its pillars or columns, f and their respective attachments should be thoroughly investigated. The internal of the two pillars is at- tached to the front of the pubes, not only of its own side, but also of the opposite ; so that there is a decussation of aponeurotic fibres in front of the symphysis just as there is in the linea alba. The external pillar, however, is altogether stronger and much more firmly secured, because there is a greater strain upon it. We find that it has as many as three points of attachment, each of which, being considered as a ligament, has accordingly received a special name. One, and perhaps the strongest attachment, is to the spine of the pubes (Poupart's ligament). The second extends for nearly an inch along the crest of the pubes (Gimbernat's ligament). The third, and weakest, consists of a few fibres, which pass beneath the internal pillar to the linea alba, and are, in fact, continuous with the aponeurosis of the opposite side (this is commonly called the triangular ligament). There can be no objection to our calling these several ligaments by separate names, provided we understand that they are nothing more than the attachments of the outer pillar of the ring. For some distance above the opening we observe that the cross fibres of the aponeurosis (alluded to at ยง 5, a) are very strongly marked. These cross fibres, which round of! the upper margin of * In order to ascertain in the living subject whether the ring be free or otherwise, the best plan is to push the thin skin of the scrotum before the finger ; then, by tracking the cord, we can readily pass the finger into the ring behind the fat which covers the pubes. f These and many other expressions in the language of anatomy may appear to us at first rather far-fetched or even affected, but we soon conform to them as quite natural and proper, because universally received amongst those whom they most concern. Q 2