GENERAL DIVISION OF THE BRAIN. 487 the lateral ventricles for the supply of their interior, forming what is called the if velum interpositum" aud the " choroid plexus." Sub-arachnoid space and fluid, — We have said that the arachnoid membrane is separated in certain situations from the pia mater by a watery fluid contained in the meshes of very delicate cellular tissue. Such interspaces are termed sub-arachnoid. There is one of these in the longitudinal fissure of the cerebrum, because the arachnoid does not go quite down to the bottom of it, but passes across below the edge of the falx, at a little distance above the corpus callosum. Again, at the base of the brain there are many such,— e. g.} between the pons Varolii and the commissure of the optic nerves, across the fissure of Silvius, and between the cerebellum and the medulla oblongata. In the examination of the spinal cord, too, it will be seen that there is a considerable interval between the arachnoid and the pia mater, also occupied by fluid. The pur- pose of this fluid is sufficiently obvious; it not only fills up space like fat does in other parts, but mechanically protects the nervous centres from the violent shocks and vibrations to which they would otherwise be liable. GENERAL DIVISION OF THE BRAIN, AND NOMENCLATURE OF ITS . DIFFERENT PARTS. Thecollective mass of nervous matter, designated under the common term brain, completely fills the cavity of the skull. It is divided, in a general way, into three parts—-the cerebrum, or intellectual brain, which occupies the whole of the upper part of the cranial cavity; the cerebellum, or little brain, which occupies the lower and back part beneath the tentorium ; and the medulla oblongata, by much the smallest portion, situated at the base beneath the cerebellum. This last part passes out of the skull through the foramen magnum, and is continuous with and forms the commencement of the spinal cord. The cerebrum, in man, is so much more developed than the other parts of the brain, and so completely overlays them, that