PARTS CONCERNED IN FEMORAL HERNIA. 426 vided it be understood that the canal has no existence prior to the occurrence of the hernia. 12. Practical application of the subject.—From what has been said, we can have no difficulty in understanding—1, at what point a femoral hernia escapes from the abdomen ; 2, the course which it takes, and its relations to the surrounding parts; 3, the proper mode of attempting the reduction; 4, the structure and arrangement of its coverings ; and lastly, where the stricture will probably be situated. The hernia escapes from the abdomen through the femoral ring, —that is, under the weak part of the crural arch, between the femoral vein and Gimbernat's ligament. This forms the mouth of the hernial sac, or that part of it which communicates with the abdomen. It descends for a short distance nearly perpendicularly, and projects as a small tumor in front of the pectineus muscle. Here, however, its further progress downwards is arrested by the very close adhesion of the subcutaneous structures to the lower margin of the saphenous opening. Consequently, if the hernia increase in size, it is obliged to rise over the crural arch, wrhere the subcutaneous tissue offers less resistance; and the bulk of the hernia extends outwards towards the ilium, assuming more or less of an oblong form, with the long axis parallel to the crural arch. Since, then, the body of the hernia forms a very acute angle with the neck, the right mode of attempting its reduction is, to make the hernia retrace its steps,—that is, to draw it first down from the groin, and then to make pressure on it backwards in the direc- tion of the femoral canal. With regard to its coverings, the hernia of course protrudes before it the peritoneum, technically called the hernial sac. It next pushes before it the sheath of the femoral vessels, which forms an investment called the fascia propria. But, if it make way through an opening on the inner side of the sheath, then there will be no fascia propria over it. Lastly, there is the subcutaneous fat and cellular tissue.* * Some authors (after Cloquet) speak of a covering derived from what they call the " sept um crurale." But we have not met with this in our dissections.