462 course op the posterior tibial artery. groove on the back of the astragalus, and thence along the sole to the great toe. The action of this muscle is essential to the propul - sion of the body in walking. 79. The tibialis posticus is so concealed between the two pre- ceding muscles that we cannot properly examine it without reflect- ing the flexor longus pollicis. It arises from the interosseous membrane and from more or less of the tibia and fibula. The muscular fibres terminate on a tendon which comes into view a short distance above the inner ankle, and, running through the same groove with the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum, then enters the sole, and is inserted into the scaphoid bone. Its action is to bend and turn the foot inwards. The precise situation of the tendon of the tibialis posticus is interesting in a surgical point of view, because the tendon has frequently to be divided for the relief of talipes varus. It lies close to, and nearly parallel with, the inner edge of the tibia, so that this is a very good guide to it. Its synovial sheath commences about 1^ inch above the end of the internal malleolus, and is conse- quently opened in the operation. 80. Course and relations of the posterior tibial artery.—This artery is one of the branches into which the pop- liteal divides at the lower border of the popliteus. It descends over the deep muscles at the back of the leg to the interval between the internal malleolus and the os calcis, and, entering the sole, divides into the external and internal plantar arteries. It lies first upon the tibialis posticus, and then on the flexor longus digitorum ; but behind the ankle it is in contact with the tibia, so that here it can be felt beating during life, and effectually compressed. In the upper part of its course we observe that it runs nearly midway between the bones, and that it is covered by the great muscles of the calf: to tie it, therefore, in this situation is very difficult. But in the lower part of its course it gradually approaches the inner border of the tibia, from which, generally speaking, it is not more than ~ or J inch distant. Here, being comparatively superficial, it may be easily tied. Immediately behind the internal malleolus, we find it between the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum, on the inner side, and the flexor longus pollicis on the outer. It has