203 PERICARDIUM. is called the precordial region. It is important to be able to define this region with something like precision, though its extent may vary in a slight degree in different individuals. It is necessary to be aware how much of this region is covered and separated from the wall of the chest by intervening lung. " Take the fifth costal ^--cartilage, and let a point midway between its junction with the sternum and its junction with the rib be the centre of a circle two inches in diameter."* This circle will, sufficiently for all practical purposes, define that part of the prsecordial region which is natu- rally less resonant to percussion than the rest; for here the heart is uncovered except by pericardium and loose cellular tissue, and is very near the wall of the chest. In the rest of the prsecordial region it is covered and separated from the chest by the inter- vening lung. With regard to the position of the several valves at the base of the heart in reference to the wall of the chest, it may be observed that the mouth of an ordinary sized stethoscope will cover a portion of them all, if it be placed a little to the left of the mesial line of the sternum opposite the third intercostal space. They are all covered by a thin portion of lung ; and for this reason we com- monly ask a patient to suspend his breathing while we listen to his heart. The position of the heart may be slightly altered by the position of the body. Of this any one may convince himself by leaning alternately forwards and backwards, by lying on this side and on that, placing at the same time the hand upon the 'prsecordial region. He will thus find that he can in a slight degree alter the place and the extent of the impulse of the heart; and the reason of this is obvious. Inspiration and expiration also may alter the position of the heart, but not so much as is generally supposed, because the central tendon of the diaphragm is prevented from falling beyond a certain limit by its connexion with the peri- cardium. 108. Pericardium,—This is the membranous bag which encloses the heart and the commencement of the large vessels at its base. * Latham on Diseases of the Heart. L