17 THE AXILLA. inosculates above with the acromial thoracic artery, below with the ascending branch of the superior profunda (a branch of the brachial), and in front with the anterior circumflex artery. In some instances, the posterior circumflex is a branch of the brachial, and ascends behind the tendons of the latissimus dorsi and teres major muscles to reach the deltoid. The posterior circumflex artery is accompanied by the circum- flex nerve, which will be found behind the axillary artery. This large nerve comes from the posterior part of the brachial plexus, in common with the musculo-spiral, and, after sending a branch to the subscapularis muscle, and another to the teres minor, terminates in the under surface of the deltoid. The nerve supplies, also, the skin covering the deltoid by one or more branches, which turn round the posterior border of the muscle, and subdivide into smaller filaments: one or two slender ones sometimes per- forate the muscle to reach the skin. The circumflex nerve sends small filaments to the capsule of the shoulder-joint, and to the head of the humerus through the foramina in the bone. 23. The anterior circumflex artery, a branch of the axillary, is very much smaller than the posterior, and will be found covered by a thin layer of fascia, in front of the neck of the humerus, immediately above the tendon of the latissimus dorsi. It proceeds directly outwards beneath the coraco-brachialis and short head of the biceps, close to the bone, and terminates in the under surface of the deltoid, where it inosculates with the posterior circumflex arlery. The most remarkable branch of the anterior circumflex artery, and one of the most constant in the body, is that which runs with the long tendon of the biceps up the groove of the humerus. It is called, on that account, the bicipital artery; it supplies the shouldsr-joint, and gives off numerous branches, which form a plexus on the periosteum over the neck of the humerus, and penetrate the foramina in the bone. Branches from the anterior circumflex descend to inosculate with ascending branches of the superior profunda. The alar thoracic artery is a small branch^ variable in its origin.