PALM OF THE HAND. GO side of the shaft of the metacarpal bone of the little finger. Its action is to draw this bone, which is the most moveable of all the metacarpal bones of the fingers, towards the thumb. Thus it materially assists in forming a hollow in the palm. Remove the deep palmar fascia, and clean the deep arch of arte- ries which lies, surrounded by more or less fat, over the upper ends of the metacarpal bones. Trace the branches of the radial artery in the palm. 95. Branches of the radial artery in the palm—The radial artery, after passing over the external lateral ligament of the carpus, and beneath the extensor tendons of the thumb, towards the back of the hand, sinks into the angle between the metacarpal bones of the thumb and fore finger, and generally gives off three principal branches—the arteria magna pollicis, the radialis indicis, and the palmaris profunda ; but the arrangement of all the arteries in the palm is subject to frequent varieties. 96. The arteria magna pollicis runs in front of the abductor indicis muscle (first dorsal interosseous), close along the ulnar border of the metacarpal bone of the thumb: in the interval be- tween the lower portions of the flexor brevis pollicis, the artery divides, beneath the long flexor tendon, into two branches, which proceed, one on either side of the thumb, and inosculate at the apex of the last phalanx. Their distribution and mode of termi- nation are similar to those of the other digital arteries. 97. The arteria radialis indicis descends along the radial side of the second metacarpal bone, between the abductor indicis and adductor pollicis muscles, at the lower border of which it becomes superficial, and continues its course along the radial side of the index finger to the extremity, where it forms an arch with the other digital artery. Near the lower margin of the adductor pollicis, the radialis indicis generally receives a branch from the superficial palmar arch. 98. The palmaris prof anda is sometimes considered as the con- tinuation of the radial artery. It enters the palm between the inner originof the flexor brevis and the adductor pollicis muscles, describes a curve, with the concavity towards the wrist, across the upper ends of the second, third, and fourth metacarpal bones, and inosculates