MUSCLES OF THE SHOULDER. 72 perforate the deltoid, to join the delicate network of vessels upon the acromion. a. The circumflex nerve, & branch of the axillary plexus, takes the same course as the artery, but is situated nearer to the head of the humerus. It sends a branch to the teres minor, one or two to the integuments of the shoulder, and terminates in the substance of the deltoid, in branches which accompany the ramifications of the circumflex artery. The proximity of this nerve to the head of the humerus explains the occasional occurrence of paralysis of the deltoid, after a dislocation of this bone into the axilla. 118. The muscles on the dorsum of the scapula are covered by a strong aponeurosis, which is firmly attached to the spine and borders of the bone. At the posterior edge of the deltoid, it divides into two layers, one of which passes over, the other under, the muscle. The superficial layer is continuous with the general fascia of the arm; the deep layer is continued over the head of the humerus to the short head of the biceps and coraco-brachialis muscles, and thence over the axillary vessels. Remove the aponeu- rosis from the muscles, so far as this can be done without injury to the muscular fibres which arise from its under surface. 119. The infraspinatus muscle, triangular in form, arises by fleshy and tendinous fibres from the lower surface of the spine, and the greater part of the dorsum of the scapula, below the spine, excepting the neighbourhood of the neck ; also from the back part of the strong fascia covering its surface, as well as that which sepa- rates it from the teres minor. The fibres converge to a tendon, which is at first contained in the substance of the muscle, and then proceeds over the capsular ligament of the shoulder-joint, to be inserted into the upper and back part of the greater tuberosity of the humerus. 120. The teres minor is a long narrow muscle, situated below the infra-spinatus, along the inferior border of the scapula. It arises from a smooth surface, about three inches long, on the dorsum of the scapula, close to the inferior border, and from its own fascial covering. The fibres ascend parallel with those of the infra- spinatus, and terminate in a broad flat tendon, which is contained