INTERCOSTAL NERVES. •214 multitude of small branches, which supply the intercostal muscles and form a delicate plexus of vessels both on the outer and inner surface of the rib. About midway between the sternum and the spine each gives off an external branch of variable size, which ac- companies the lateral cutaneous branch of the intercostal nerve. The continued trunk, gradually decreasing in size, becomes very small towards the anterior part of its space, and is placed more in the middle of it. Those of the true intercostal spaces finally inosculate with branches of the internal mammary (see § 96 c). Those of the false are lost between the layers of the abdominal muscles. b. The posterior branch passes backwards between the transverse processes of the vertebrse, and supplies the muscles and integuments of the back. Each of these sends an artery through the correspond- ing intervertebral foramen to the spinal cord and its membranes. The intercostal vein returns the blood from the parts supplied by the artery, and terminates in the vena azygos. 120. Intercostal nerves.-—These are, severally, anterior divisions of the spinal nerves. They proceed, one along each intercostal space, in company with and immediately below the corresponding vessels. In their course they supply the intercostal muscles; also lateral cutaneous branches (see Arm, § 12) and anterior cutaneous branches (see Arm, § 3). Observe that the first dorsal nerve, after furnishing a nerve to the first intercostal space, ascends over the neck of the first rib, and contributes to form the brachial plexus. Intercostal absorbent glands.—These are situated chiefly near the heads of the ribs ; but there are some between the layers of the intercostal muscles. They are of small size, and send their absorbent vessels into the thoracic duct. 121. Bronchial and esophageal arteries.—Small arteries, arising from the concavity of the arch of the aorta, accompany the bron- chial tubes into the substance of the lung. Their distribution and office will be considered with the anatomy of that organ. Other arteries, still smaller, proceed from the front of the descending aorta and supply the oesophagus.