361 PUDIC ARTETtY AND BRANCHES. transversus profundus. Each consists of a cluster of little glands. Their collective size is about that of a pea, hut it varies in diffe- rent individuals. From each a slender duct runs forwards, and, after a course of about one inch, opens into the under surface of the spongy part of the urethra. Their use is to furnish a secretion accessory to the function of generation. 55. Pudic artery and its branches,—About an inch and a half above the tuber ischii, we can feel the trunk of the pudic artery; but we cannot see it, nor draw it out, for it is securely lodged in a fibrous canal. As we trace it upwards, we find that it gradually ap- proaches the border of the arch till it arrives at the root of the penis; then, running along the upper surface of this organ, it is eventually distributed to the glans. Its external hemorrhoidal (§45) and superficial perineal branches (§ 47) have been already described; but its most important branch is the artery of the bulb. a. The artery of the bulb is one of considerable size : we trace it across the arch, through the substance of the transversus profundus, and generally find that before it enters the bulb it divides into two or three branches. It also sends a little branch to Cowper's glands. From the direction of this artery it will at once strike the attention that there is great risk of dividing it in lithotomy. If the artery run along its usual level, and the incision be not made too high in the perineum, then indeed it is out of the way of harm. But, supposing the reverse, the artery cannot escape; and its size is such that it might occasion fatal haemorrhage. If it be asked, how often does the artery run along a dangerous level ? we answer, about once in twenty subjects ; and there is no possibility of ascer- taining this anomaly beforehand. b. The artery of the cms penis is given off after that of the bulb. It ascends for a short distance under cover of the arch, but soon enters the crus. c. To see the continuation of the pudic artery along the dorsum of the penis, we must dissect the penis from its attachment to the svmphysis pubis. The artery should be traced down to the glans *. we shall find that it forms a complete arterial circle round the corona glandis, giving off numerous ramifications to the papillae on the surface.