SUBMAXILLARY REGION. 133 tenor and inferior fibres, by elevating the os-hyoides and drawing forwards the base of the tongue, can protrude the tongue from the mouth : the anterior fibres can retract the tongue when protruded. It is one of the chief muscles concerned in suction. 26. The Hypoglossal or ninth cerebral nerve, now seen crossing the hyo-glossus muscle, is the great motor nerve of the muscles of the tongue. It arises by several roots from the front surface of the medulla oblongata, leaves the skull through the anterior condyloid foramen of the occipital bone, and descends very obliquely between the internal carotid artery and the internal jugular vein. A little below the posterior portion of the digastricus, the nerve makes a curve forwards over both carotid arteries ; it then crosses the hyo- glossus near the greater cornu of the os-hyoides, and at the anterior border of the muscle divides into branches, of which some supply this muscle and the genio-hyoideus, but the greater number ter- minate in the genio-hyo-glossus muscle. Near the point where the hypo-glossal nerve curves round the occipital artery, it gives off its descending branch to the depressor muscles of the os-hyoides (see § 16). Near the apex of the cornu of the os-hyoides it sends a small branch to the thyro-hyoid muscle. Lastly, several filaments from it ascend upon the hyo- glossus muscle and communicate with the gustatory nerve. 27. Sublingual salivary gland.—This gland is situated along the inner side of the ramus of the jaw immediately beneath the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth, into which it slightly projects, so that it can be readily felt by the finger. In shape it is somewhat oblong, with the long axis, about \\ inch in length, directed from before backwards. Inferiorly it rests upon the upper surface of the mylo-hyoid muscle, and towards the mesial line it is in contact with the hyo-glossus and the genio-hyo-glossus. Its several lobes are loosely connected together by areolar tissue, and the more posterior are often closely united with those of the sub- maxillary gland. The ducts of the sublingual gland (named after their discoverer the ducts of Rivinus*) are extremely thin and delicate, and vary * Aug. Quirin. Rivinus, de Dyspepsia. Lips. 1678.