46 PALM OF THE HAND. dius; the muscle is thicker than it appears, and its superficial fibres are much longer than those which pass between the mesial border of the bones. It rotates the radius on the ulna. 67. Nearly on a level with the insertion of the biceps, the ulnar artery gives off from its outer side the common interosseous trunk, a large branch, about half an inch or more in length, which passes backwards and divides into two,—the anterior, and posterior inter- osseous arteries. The anterior interosseous artery descends along the interosseous membrane, nearer to the radius than the ulna, lying between the flexor profundus digitorum and the flexor longus pollicis. At the upper edge of the pronator quadratus it divides into two branches; one of which, the smaller of the two, supplies the muscle and descends in front of the carpal bones, communicating with the anterior carpal arteries from the radial and ulnar, and the deep palmar arch ; the other perforates the interosseous membrane, and divides into branches which inosculate with the posterior carpal and posterior interosseous arteries. The anterior interosseous artery gives off branches to the mus- cles on either side, and the nutritious arteries which perforate the anterior surface of the radius and ulna from below upwards, near the centre of the forearm, to supply the medullary membrane. Several small branches pierce the interosseous membrane, and are distributed to the muscles on the back of the forearm. 68. The anterior interosseous nerve is a branch of the median; it lies close to the outer side of the artery, sends filaments to the flexor longus pollicis and flexor profundus digitorum, and is lost in the under surface of the pronaior quadratus. The interosseous artery is sometimes confined to the interosseous membrane by a layer of fibrous tissue; hence the occasional diffi- culty in placing a ligature round it after amputation. DISSECTION OF THE PALM OF THE HAND. 69. A longitudinal incision should be made through the skin down the centre of the palm to the cleft between the middle and ring fingers: