270 MUSCLES OV THE OKBIT. 201. Recti muscles,—-These are four flat muscles, which have a tendinous origin round the foramen opticum, so that collectively they embrace the optic nerve at its entrance into the orbit. They pass forwards, slightly diverging from each other, one above, another below, and one on either side of the optic nerve ; and they are named, accordingly, rectus superior, inferior, externus, and in- terims. They terminate in four broad and shining tendons, which are firmly inserted into the four opposite sides of the sclerotica, about a quarter of an inch, on the average, from the margin of the cornea. a. The external rectus not only arises, in common with the others, from the circumference of the optic foramen, but has also another origin from the inner margin of the sphenoid fissure. Between these origins there pass the third nerve, the nasal branch of the fifth, the sixth, and commonly the ophthalmic vein, into the orbit. By means of the recti muscles we are enabled to direct the axis of the eye towards different points : hence the names given to them by Albinus—attollens, depressor, adductor, and abductor oculi. It is obvious that by the single action of one, or the combined action of two of these muscles, the eye can be turned towards any direction, within certain limits. If a greater extent of motion is required, we direct the axis of vision to the object by turning the whole head. 202. It is necessary to follow the recti muscles to the globe of the eye, in order to see the delicate shining tendons by which they are inserted into the sclerotic coat. We have already mentioned that they are severally invested by a membrane, or fascia, which passes from one to the other, forming a sort of loose tunic over the back of the eye. This is sometimes called the "fascia bulbi." It is this fascia which resists the passage of the hook in the operation for the cure of squinting. Even after the complete division of the tendon, the eye may still be held in its faulty position, if this tissue, instead of possessing its proper softness and pliancy, happen to have become contracted and unyielding. Under such circum- stances it is necessary to divide it freely with the scissors. By removing the conjunctival coat of the eye, the tendons of the