239 MUSCLES OF THE PALATE. communication with the posterior nares during deglutition and vomiting. It is true that in vomiting food does sometimes escape through the nostrils, but one cannot wonder at this, considering the violence with which it is driven into the pharynx. The use of the soft palate is very manifest when it is partially lost by ulcera- tion. Before, however, we touch upon this subject, it is well to examine the muscles which act upon the soft palate—namely, the levator and the tensor palati: after these, the muscles which act upon the arches. 155. Muscles of the soft palate.—The palate should be rendered tense by drawing down the uvula, and the mucous membrane should be removed from its upper surface. Beneath the mucous membrane will be discovered a plentiful supply of mucous glands (glandul(B palatines), which pour out a copious secretion through numerous pores upon the surface. A considerable number are scattered all round the uvula. It will be necessary to remove these glands before we can display the muscles which expand the sides of the palate. a. Levator palati.—This muscle is situated at the side of the posterior openings of the nose. It arises from the point of the petrous portion of the temporal bone in front of the carotid canal, and from the inner side of the cartilage of the Eustachian tube. It passes downwards and forwards, and expands upon the upper surface of the soft palate, joining more or less with its fellow in the mesial line. Some of its fibres descend into the wall of the pharynx. Its action is implied by its name. b. Circumflexus or tensor palati.—This is a long flat muscle situated between the internal pterygoid muscle and the internal pterygoid plate of the sphenoid bone. It arises from the so-called scaphoid fossa at the base of the pterygoid process, and from the outer surface of the Eustachian tube. From this origin it descends perpendicularly, and ends in a tendon which turns round the hook of the pterygoid process at nearly a right angle, and then expands into a broad aponeurosis ; this is not only connected to its fellow of the opposite side, but is also attached to the horizontal plate of the palate bones: upon it depends the chief strength of the soft