STRUCTURE OF THE LUNGS. 229 in size in proportion to the size of the tubes. Their secretion, in a healthy state, is clear, very little tenacious, and just sufficient in quantity to lubricate the air-passages. Under ordinary circum- stances it insensibly evaporates, but under circumstances of disease it is altered both in colour and consistence, and is poured out so abundantly that it excites a cough. Muscular fibre.—After removing the glands and the fibrous membrane from the back of the trachea, we expose a thin unin- terrupted stratum of pale muscular fibres which extend transversely between the cartilages, and are attached to their extremities; consequently, by their contraction, they will approximate the ends of the cartilages, and so diminish the calibre of the tube. These muscular fibres, not being under the influence of the will, are destitute of striae. The mucous membrane lining the air-passages is a continuation from that of the larynx. Its consistence is most marked in the trachea; in the bronchi it is more delicate, and its delicacy in- creases as the tubes divide. Its colour in the natural state is nearly white, but in catarrhal affections it becomes bright red, in consequence of accumulation of blood in the capillary vessels. Its surface is lined by a layer of epithelium of the ciliated kind, of which the vibratile movement is directed in such a way as to favour the expectoration of the mucus. By a recent observer* it is stated that the mucous membrane ceases at the commence- ment of the air-cells; and this is probably true, since no ciliated epithelium can be detected in them. 141. Lobules of the lung.—If we examine the surface of a healthy lung, we observe that it is mapped out, so to speak, by whitish lines, circumscribing spaces of various form and size. These spaces indicate the lobules of the lung. Now each lobule may be considered as a lung in miniature, so that any one who understands the structure of a single lobule understands the structure of the entire lung. The lobules are all connected together by a loose and fine cellular tissue, called " interlobular," which is everywhere soft and elastic to allow the free expansion of the organ. Its cells * Rainey, Med.-Chir. Trans, vol. xxviii. 1845.