171 NERVES OF THE FACE. Close to the stylo-mastoid foramen the portio dura sends off its posterior auricular branch (see ยง 37), also a slender branch to the digastricus (posteriorportion), and another to the stylo-hyoideus muscle. A. The tempore--facial division crosses over the external "carotid and the neck of the jaw, receives two or more communications from the temporo-auricular nerve (branch of the fifth), and subdivides into temporal, malar, and infra-orbital branches. a. The temporal branches ascend over the zygoma, and supply the frontalis, the attrahens, and attollens aurem muscles, and com- municate with filaments of the supra-orbital and temporo-auricular nerves. b. The malar branches are numerous and large ; they cross the zygoma, supply the orbicularis oculi, and communicate with fila- ments of the lacrymal nerve. c. The infra-orbital branches proceed forwards beneath the zygomatici over the masseter, and supply the elevators of the mouth and the muscles of the nose. One or more large filaments accompany the parotid duct, and supply the buccinator. Beneath the levator labii superioris we find a free communication with the infra-orbital branches of the second division of the fifth nerve. B. The cervico-facial division, having been joined by filaments from the auriculo-parotidean (branch of cervical plexus), descends towards the angle of the jaw, and subdivides into supra and infra- maxillary branches. a. The supra-maxillary advance over the masseter muscle and facial artery, and run under the depressor muscles of the lower lip, all of which they supply. Some of the filaments communicate with the mental branch of the dental nerve. 6. The infra-maxillary or cervical branches, one or more in number, were dissected with the neck (see ยง 6). They arch for- wards below the ramus of the jaw, covered by the platysma, and communicate with the cervical plexus. Respecting the function of the portio dura, it is necessary to re- member that though at its origin it is purely a motor nerve, yet after leaving the stylo-mastoid foramen it becomes a compound