29 THE UPPER ARM. The external head will be found behind the insertion of the del- toid ; its origin commences on the posterior part of the humerus, immediately below the great tuberosity, and extends down to the middle of the bone. The internal head arises from the pos- terior part of the humerus below the insertion of the teres major, and near that of the coraco-brachialis. The three heads of the muscle unite near the middle of the arm to form a single fleshy mass, which covers the posterior part of the elbow-joint, and is in- serted by a thick tendon into the summit and sides of the olecranon, A more particular account of this muscle will be given hereafter. 39. The musculo-sjpiral or radial, the largest of the brachial nerves, arises, in common with the circumflex, from the posterior part of the axillary plexus. It descends behind the axillary artery over the tendon of the latissimus dorsi and the long head of the triceps, the latter of which it separates from the brachial artery. Near the middle of the arm the nerve winds obliquely round the posterior part of the humerus, between the external and internal heads of the triceps, in company with the superior profunda branch of the brachial artery. About the lower third of the outer side of the arm, the nerve will be found deeply embedded between the brachialis amicus and the supinator radii longus muscles. A little above the elbow-joint it divides into its two principal branches,—the radial, which accompanies the radial artery along the forearm,—and the posterior muscular (posterior interosseous of authors), which per- forates the supinator brevis muscle on the outer side of the radius, and supplies the muscles on the back of the forearm. The musculo-spiral nerve gives off the following branches :— a. A small internal cutaneous branch, which perforates the fascia near the middle of the inner side of the arm, and assists in sup- plying the iuteguments over the lower part of the triceps : this nerve is occasionally absent. b. One or two branches (each accompanied by an artery from the superior profunda) to each of the three divisions of the triceps muscle. c. An external cutaneous branch, already dissected, which makes its way to the outer side of the arm, between the external head of the triceps and the upper part of the supinator longus. About the middle