STRUCTURE OE THE PROSTATE. 379 ated behind the lateral lobes, between the neck of the bladder and the seminal ducts. a. Make a longitudinal incision through the prostate in order to expose the urethra. We notice that the canal does not run exactly in the centre of the gland, but rather nearer to its upper surface; nor is it of the same calibre throughout. It forms a kind of sinus in the interior of the prostate, as though the gland had been pur- posely hollowed out; and this is what anatomists mean when they speak of the " sinus of the prostate." Along the floor of this sinus we notice a longitudinal ridge, which is broad and elevated behind, but gradually loses itself forwards in a narrow point. This is called the crest of the urethra, and the most prominent part of it is commonly named the caput gallinaginis, from its supposed re- semblance to the head of a woodcock. The seminal ducts open close to each other, one on either side of this prominence. b. Immediately in front of the caput gallinaginis, precisely in the middle line, we find a small opening, into which a probe should be passed, in order to ascertain that it leads backwards into a little cul-de-sac or pouch in the substance of the prostate. This pouch is generally described as the analogue of the uterus, and called the utriculus; but strictly speaking, it is the remains of the primordial sac out of which the parts were formed. It is of a pyriform shape, with the narrowest part at the orifice, and its length is about five or six lines. In a practical point of view it deserves attention, because in some persons it is large enough to catch the end of a small catheter. c. Lastly, we have to notice the minute orifices of the proper . ducts of the prostate,* and these are best seen on the floor of the 1806. The preparation prepared by Sir Everard in illustration is preserved in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons in London, Physiol. Series, No. 2,583 A. But the anatomy and effects of the enlargement of this part of the prostate gland is not a discovery of modern times. It was accurately described by Santorini in 1739, and subsequently by Camper, and is alluded to by Morgagni in the third book of his Epistles. * In the ducts of the prostate we often find small calculi, of a brown colour, consisting of phosphate of lime. Cases are sometimes met with in which these calculi by degrees attain a considerable size, and distend the prostate into a kind of sac, which when examined by the rectum feels not unlike a bag of marbles. T