BRANCHES OF THE EXTERNAL CAROTID. 137 a. The hyoid, a small muscular branch sometimes absent, runs horizontally inwards below the greater cornu of the os-hyoides. b. The superior laryngeal branch passes inwards, accompanied by the superior laryngeal nerve, beneath the thyro-hyoid muscle, perforates the middle of the thyro-hyoid membrane, or sometimes the thyroid cartilage, and supplies the muscles and the mucous membrane of the larynx. c. The sterno-mastoid, a small branch variable as to origin and size, scarcely deserves notice except that it descends over the sheath of the carotid artery to the mastoid muscle. d. The crico-thyroid, an artery apparently insignificant, but of great interest in reference to the operation of laryngotomy, crosses the crico-thyroid ligament, and communicates with a corresponding branch to the opposite side. One or two small branches pass through the ligament to the interior of the larynx. It is important to be aware that the crico-thyoid artery is subject to variety both in point of direction and size. In the generality of cases it is small, and runs transversely across the centre of the ligament; we should therefore be least likely to wound it, in laryngotomy, by dividing the ligament close to the cricoid cartilage. It is, however, by no means infrequent to find this artery a branch of considerable size, taking an oblique or a perpendicular direction in front of the ligament, and finally distributed to one of the lobes of the thyroid body. We have even seen several instances in which the ligament was crossed by the main trunk of the superior thyroid. These facts should establish the practical rule in laryngotomy not to make an opening into the larynx until we have fairly exposed the crico- thyroid ligament, and ascertained whether any unusual variety exist either in the size or the direction of its artery. Among the many arterial inosculations about the thyroid body, there are commonly two which deserve notice ; the one is formed between the two superior thyroid arteries along the upper border of the isthmus, the other takes place along the outer part of the lateral lobe between the superior and inferior thyroid. These inosculations are deserving of notice the more, because they militate against the practice of tying one of the thyroid arteries in order to cure or relieve a bronchocele.