291 ERECTOR, SPIN.E. thickest and strongest at that part of the spine where it has the greatest weight to support, namely in the lumbar region; and that from this point its thickness gradually decreases towards the top of the spine, in proportion to the decrease of the weight. The sheath in which the muscle is contained has already been examined, and we then noticed that the strength of this sheath varies in different parts of the spine, according to that of the muscle. In the lumbar region, for instance, we observed the great strength of the " fascia lumborum" (see Arm, ยง 106) ; and in the dorsal, the compara- tively feeble " vertebral aponeurosis" (see ยง 240). The sheath having been reflected, we observe that in the lumbar and sacral region the erector spinse is covered by a broad and thick tendon, which is attached to the spines of the lumbar and sacral vertebrae, to the tubercles representing the transverse processes of the sacrum, and to the posterior part of the crest of the ilium. The muscular fibres take origin from this expanded tendon, from the sacrum between its spinous and transverse processes, and from the whole of that rough surface below the posterior and inner part of the crest of the ilium. From this extensive origin the muscular fibres ascend, at first aggregated into a single mass. Near the last rib, however, we may observe that this mass divides into two portions, of which the outer is called the sacro-lumbalis; the inner, the longissimus dorsi. These two portions should be successively followed up the back; and there can be no difficulty in doing so, because the division between them is indicated by a longitudinal groove, in which we observe the several cutaneous branches of the intercostal vessels and nerves. Tracing, then, the sacro-lumbalis upwards, we find that it ter- minates in a series of tendons which are inserted into the angles of all the ribs. By turning a little outwards the sacro-lumbalis, we observe that part of it which is called the " musculus accessorizes ad sacro- lumbalem" It arises by a series of tendons from the angles of the seven or eight lower ribs: it is at once obvious that the mus- cular slips proceeding from these tendons form but the dorsal con-