THE AXILLA. 15 A deviation, one which was observed once only in 300 arms, may occur, in which all the nerves are situated above the artery, and on its acromial side, the vessel being entirely free in the whole of its course. 19. Replace the pectoralis minor, for the purpose of tracing the branches of the axillary artery. Their number and origin fre- quently vary, but their general course is in most cases similar; they usually arise from the axillary trunk in the order in which they are here described:— The thoracic axis arises above the pectoralis minor, and divides into branches which have been already noticed, § 7. The inferior or long thoracic artery, sometimes called the exter- nal mammary, descends almost vertically along the inferior border of the pectoralis minor. Its numerous ramifications supply the mam- mary gland, the serratus magnus and pectoral muscles, and main- tain a free anastomosis with the branches of the superior thoracic, the internal mammary, and intercostal arteries. It sometimes arises by a common trunk with the following:— 20. Theiiifra-scapular artery is the largest branch of the axillary; it arises opposite the lower border of the subscapular muscle, parallel to which it descends, and about one inch and a half from its origin, divides into an anterior and a posterior branch. The anterior branch appears like the continued trunk ; it takes rather a tortuous course along the anterior edge of the subscapularis muscle towards the inferior angle of the scapula. The numerous branches given off by this artery supply the subscapular, the latissimus dorsi, and serratus magnus muscles, and anastomose with the intercostal and thoracic arteries, as well as the posterior scapular (a branch of the subclavian). The posterior branch (dorsalis scapulae), larger than the pre- ceding, turns round the lower border of the subscapularis, through a triangular opening bounded by the long head of the triceps, the teres major, and subscapularis muscles. Having reached the dorsum of the scapula, it divides into several branches, which ramify close upon the bone, supplying the infra-spinatus and teres minor muscles, and inosculating with the supra and posterior scapular arteries,, The dorsalis scapulae sends off a small branch, which ramifies in the sub- Ld*