175 MUSCLES OJf MASTICATION. inner surface of the zygoma, are inserted into the coronoid process and the tendon of the temporal muscle. Its action is to close the jaw with great force. Reflect the masseter from its origin by dissecting close to the zygoma. Observe the respective direction of the superficial and deep strata of muscular fibres; also the tendinous partitions which so greatly augment the power of the muscle by increasing its extent of origin. The masseteric nerve and artery will be found entering the under surface of the muscle through the sigmoid notch of the jaw ; the artery is a branch of the internal maxillary, the nerve proceeds from the motor division of the inferior maxillary. We should now examine the temporal aponeurosis, and the temporal muscle. 79. The temporal aponeurosis is the name given to the strong shining membrane which arises from the upper border of the zygomatic arch, and is inserted into the curved line observable on the side of the skull bounding the so-called temporal fossa. It not only completes the case in which the temporal muscle is con- tained, but also furnishes additional surface for the attachment of its fibres. It increases in thickness from above downwards, and near the zygoma divides into two layers, which are attached respec- tively the'one to the outer edge, the other to the inner surface of the arch. By cutting through the more superficial of these layers we shall find that a small quantity of fat intervenes between them, and very often there is a considerable branch of the temporal artery. The density of this aponeurosis explains the reason why abscesses in the temporal fossa so rarely point outwards, but make their way beneath the zygoma, and burst into the mouth. Divide the temporal aponeurosis in a longitudinal direction, and reflect it from the temporal muscle. Notice that the aponeurosis gives origin to muscular fibre only near its attachment to the tem- poral ridge; that it is separated from the muscle near the zygoma by a greater or a less amount of fat. The absorption of this fat, as well as the wasting of the muscle itself, occasions the falling in of the temple in the aged and those emaciated by disease. a. The temporal muscle arises from the whole surface of the temporal fossa down to the ridge observable on the great wing of