THE AXILLA. 9 tendons of the pectoralis major and latissimus dorsi, and between them it is continuous with the fascia on the inner side of the arm. Internally it is prolonged on the side of the chest, over the serratus magnus muscle. In front and behind, the fascia divides so as to enclose between its layers the respective muscles which form the anterior and posterior boundaries of the axilla. Thus the anterior layer is continued upwards beneath the two pectoral muscles, and is connected with the coracoid process, the costo-coracoid liga- ment, and the clavicle. The posterior layer, enclosing the latissi- mus dorsi muscle, passes backwards to the spines of the dorsal vertebrae. 12. Remove the axillary fascia. An artery, sometimes of con- siderable size, is often observed in its substance; it generally arises from the brachial, or, perhaps, the lower part of the axillary, and runs forwards across the floor of the axilla, and along the lower edge of the pectoral muscle. Though simply a subcutaneous artery, it might occasion considerable haemorrhage if wounded in opening an abscess. The axilla contains a chain of absorbent glands, with a number of arteries, veins, and nerves, forming an intricate plexus, embedded in loose cellular tissue and fat. This cellular tissue should be broken down with the handle of the scalpel, in order to discover the nerves which cross from the ribs towards the posterior border of the axilla. These nerves are called the lateral cutaneous branches of the intercostal nerves; they perforate obliquely the intercostal spaces between the digitations of the serratus magnus, nearly midway between the sternum and the spine, each in company with a small branch of the corresponding intercostal artery, and then divide into anterior and posterior branches. The anterior turn over the pectoralis major, to supply the skin on the front of the chest and the mammary gland. The posterior pass backwards over the latissimus dorsi, and are dis- tributed to the skin covering this muscle and the scapula. 13. The perforating branch of the second intercostal nerve "requires a special description ; it is much larger than the others, and is called the intercosto-humeral nerve, from its supplying the integuments of the arm. It comes through the second intercostal b 2