490 NAMES OF PARTS AT THE BASE OF THE BRAIN. the fissure of Sylvius, and called the " locus perforatus anticus"* In front of the locus perforatus posticus are two small round white bodies, called the "corpora mammillaria or albicantia:" in front of these again there is a simple elevation of the surface, consisting of grey matter, called the " tuber cinereum," upon which the com- missure of the optic nerves seems, as it were, to ride. From the tuber cinereum, and just behind the optic commissure, a conical tube, of a reddish colour, termed the es infundibulum" descends to the pituitary gland which occupies the sella turcica of the sphenoid bone. In front of the optic commissure the tuber cinereum is con- tinued forwards under the form of a thin grey layer (lamina cinered) so as to join the anterior end of the corpus callosum. Now these several objects—namely, the locus perforatus posticus, mam miliary bodies, tuber cinereum, infundibulum, and lamina cinerea-—collec- tively constitute the floor of the third ventricle of the brain. Lastly, by gently separating the anterior lobes of the cerebrum, we discover the anterior extremity of the corpus callosum, or great commissure which connects the two hemispheres of the cerebrum. Examination of the interior,—Let the brain be laid upon its base and properly supported on the sides. We have already said that the hemispheres of the cerebrum are divided by a deep longi- tudinal fissure. By gently separating the hemispheres, we observe at the bottom of this fissure a white band of nervous matter: this is called the " corpus callosum" and is the great transverse com- missure of the cerebrum. The next proceeding is, to slice off the hemispheres down to the level of the corpus callosum. The cut surface presents a mass of white substance surrounded by an undulating layer of grey matter of about one-eighth of an inch thick. Since this grey matter forms a sort of bark round the white, it is often called the cortical sub- * The large number of arteries which enter the brain in these respective situations are destined to supply the two great masses of grey matter in the interior—namely, the optic thalamus and the corpus striatum. The former corresponds with the locus perforatus posticus, the latter with the locus perforatus anticus.