194 MEDIASTINUM. 98. Mediastinum.—The chest is divided into two lateral chambers, containing the right and the left lung. Each of these is lined by a serous membrane called the pleura, which, being reflected over the lung, forms a completely closed sac on either side. The opposite sides of these two sacs constitute a sort of median partition between the two halves of the chest extending from the sternum to the spine. But the sides of the two sacs are nowhere in contact, being separated by the thymus gland in front (at least in early life) by the heart and its pericardium in the middle, and by the aorta, oesophagus, &c. behind. This septum is commonly called the mediastinum, and the interval between its layers, occu- pied by the heart, &c, is called the "cavitas mediastini." That portion of the mediastinum formed by the divergence of the pleura on either side from the sternum to the pericardium, is called by some anatomists the anterior mediastinum. A corre- sponding space, situated between the pericardium and the spine, is called the posterior mediastinum. The so-called anterior mediastinum, or space left between the diverging layers of pleura, lies immediately behind the sternum in a line not precisely longitudinal, but inclining slightly to the left in consequence of the position of ihe heart. Its area is not of equal extent throughout, being wider at the upper and the lower part of the sternum by reason of the divergence of the lungs from each other in these situations, and narrower about the middle; for here the lungs, when well distended with air, advance so nearly to the mesial line that their edges are all but in contact. The upper part of the space corresponds to the first bone of the sternum, and contains the origin of the sterno-hyoid and thyroid muscles, the remains of the thymus gland, and more or less cellular tissue and fat. The lower part inclines rather to the left side of the sternum in front of the pericardium. Here and there amongst the cellular tissue may perhaps be discovered absorbent glands variable in number and size; they receive the absorbents from the convex surface of the liver, the pericardium, and the heart. 99. Between the first bone of the sternum and the great vessels at the upper part of the chest, we have to clear away a certain quantity of fat and cellular tissue in order to expose a fascia which