522 DISSECTION OF THE EYE. conjunctiva are often continued over the cornea: we see red vessels injected on its surface, and its texture becomes thickened.* The human eye is very nearly spherical. It would be quite so, but that the transparent part in front—the cornea—forms a segment of a smaller sphere than the rest. Consequently, the anteropos- terior diameter of the ball exceeds the transverse by about one line. The convexity of the cornea, however, varies in different persons, and at different periods of life; and this is one cause of the several degrees of near-sight and far-sight. The globe is composed of coats arranged one within the other. The external coat, called the sclerotic, is fibrous, thick, and strong, so as to form, as it were, a case to protect the delicate structures within it. The second coat, called the choroid, is composed almost entirely of blood-vessels, and very dark in colour. The third coat is called the retina, and consists, in fact, of the expansion of the optic nerve for the reception of the impression of light. The great bulk of the interior is filled with a transparent^umour called the vitreous. Imbedded in the front of this, and just behind the pupil, is the crystalline lens for the purpose of concentrating the rays of light. In front of the lens is placed a moveable curtain, called the iris, in order to regulate the quantity of light which shall be admitted through the pupil. The space in which the iris is suspended is filled with a fluid termed the aqueous humour. Sclerotic coat.—This is the tough protecting coat of the eye, and consists of glistening fibres interlacing in all directions.-)* It * The facts of comparative anatomy confirm this view. In the serpent tribe, which annually shed their skin, the front of the cornea comes off with the rest of the external surface of the body. In the eel the surface of the cornea is often drawn off in the process of skinning. In some species of rodents which burrow under the ground like the mole, the eye is covered with hair like other parts. f The sclerotic coat of the eye in fishes is of extraordinary thickness and density, for obvious reasons ; and in birds this coat is further strengthened by a circle of bony plates, fourteen or fifteen in. number, arranged in a series round the margin of the cornea. Similar plates are found in some of the rep- tiles, and particularly in the fossil icthyosauri and plesiosauri.