DIAPHRAGM. 338 other over the psoas muscle; lastly, from the spine they arise by two elongated bundles, called the crura of the diaphragm. Be- tween them the aorta enters the abdomen. We may observe that both have tendinous origins, but that the right crus is a little longer than the left; for it arises from the bodies of the three or four upper lumbar vertebrae and their intervening cartilages, whereas the left does not descend so low by one vertebra. Proceeding from these various sources, the fibres ascend at first nearly vertically, and then all arch inwards, and are inserted into the central tendon. a. The central tendon is nearly the highest part of the dia- phragm. It presents a beautiful glistening surface, owing to the various directions in which its fibres cross each other; and its shape may be rudely compared to that of a trefoil leaf. The chief point of interest about the tendon is, that, in consequence of its connections in the chest, it is always maintained pretty nearly on the same level; so that it both supports the heart, and serves as a fixed point for the insertion of the muscular fibres of the dia-* phragm. There are three openings in the diaphragm for the transmission of the aorta, the oesophagus, and the vena cava respectively. The aortic opening is, as before observed, between the crura, close to the spine ; it transmits, also, the vena azygos and the thoracic duct, both of which lie rather to the right of the aorta. Now, if the crura be traced upwards, it may be observed that the inner fibres of each cross each other in front of the aorta, somewhat like the letter X.* Just above the crossing, and a little towards the left side of it, we find the oesophageal opening; this is entirely mus- cular, whereas the aortic is partly tendinous. The opening for the vena cava is situated in the central tendon, rather to the right of the middle line; and we observe that the vein is intimately con- quadratus lumborum ; in point of fact they are nothing more than the upper borders of the sheaths of these muscles, specially thickened for the purpose o^ giving origin to the fibres of the diaphragm. Where else could the fibres take origin in this situation ? * This decussation is not invariable. But the right crus always crosses more or less over the left, so that the crura are never strictly parallel.