ORIGIN OF THE CEREBRAL NERVES. 519 Second pair, or optic—These nerves arise from the corpora quadrigemina. They wind round the crura cerebri to the base of the brain, and, uniting in the middle line, constitute the optic com- missure. This commissure rests on the sphenoid bone, just in front of the sella turcica, and rides as it were upon the tuber cine- reum. From the commissure each nerve passes through the fora- men opticum into the orbit, and terminates in the retina. At the commissure some of the nerve fibres cross from one side to the other. This decussation affects only the fibres of the inner half of the nerve; those of the outer half keep to their own side. The purpose of this partial crossing is not thoroughly understood. It was ingeniously supposed by Dr. Wollaston* to account for single vision, since the right halves and the left halves of the eyes would derive their nerve-fibres from the same optic nerve. Third pair, or motor es oculorum.—The apparent origin of the third nerve is from the inner side of the eras cerebri, immediately in front of the pons ; but its roots penetrate into the crus as deep as the locus niger. It passes through the sphenoidal fissure, and supplies all the muscles of the eye, except the superior oblique and the rectus extern us. Fourth pair, or patheticu—This nerve arises from the valve of Vieussens. It runs transversely outwards, then winds round the erus cerebri, enters the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure, and supplies the superior oblique muscle of the eye. Fifth pair, or trigeminal nerve.—This large nerve arises by two roots of very unequal size. The apparent origin of both is called the origin of the nerve is, in point of fact, the crus of the olfactory lobe, and is in every way homologous to the crus cerebri or cerebelli. In proof of this, look at the enormous size and connections of the. crus in animals which have very acute sense of smell. Throughout the vertebrate kingdom there is a strict ratio between the sense of smell and the development of the olfactory lobes. Again, in many animals these lobes are actually larger than the cere- bral, and contain in their interior a cavity which communicates with the lateral ventricles. According to Tiedemann, this cavity exists even in the human foetus at an early period. * Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society, 1824.