NEItVES OF THE ORBIT. quantity of soft fat, which is chiefly accumulated between the muscles at the back of the eye. This fat supports the eye in the orbit, and prevents it from being pulled too far back by its muscles* Upon the greater or less abundance of it depends, in some measure, the difference observed in the prominence of the eyes in different individuals. Its absorption in disease or old age occasions the sinking of the eyes. It has been already mentioned that the eye is separated from this fat by a fold of thin membrane, forming a kind of (i tunica vaginalis," which enables the globe to roll freely upon the fat as upon a bed, and execute its motions with the greatest rapidity and precision. Lastly, the orbit contains the lachrymal gland. After the removal of the periosteum, and the fascia of the orbit, the following parts are brought to view. In the middle we observe the frontal nerve, with its corresponding artery, lying upon the levator palpebrse superioris; on the inner side, there is the superior oblique with its nerve (the 4th) ; on the outer side, there is the lachrymal nerve and artery ; and below them is the external rectus muscle. The lachrymal gland is also seen at the outer and front part of the orbit. 195. Frontal nerve.—This is one of the three principal branches into which the ophthalmic portion of the fifth divides. It enters the orbit in company with, but a little below, the fourth nerve. It runs directly forwards upon the upper surface of the levator pal- pebrse to the margin of the orbit, where it passes through the supra-orbital notch, and ascends to supply the forehead and scalp (see § 182, a). In this course it gives off the following branches :— a. The supra-trochlear comes off from the frontal nerve within the orbit, proceeds forwards above the pulley of the superior oblique, emerges from the inner angle of the orbit, and divides into branches, which are distributed, partly to the upper eyelid, partly to the forehead and root of the nose. One or two very , delicate filaments may sometimes be traced through foramina in the bone to the mucous membrane of the frontal sinuses.* * These filaments have been noticed by Blumenbach, De Sinibus Frontal.