THE UPPER AIIM. £8 36. The ulnar nerve, one of considerable size, arises from the axillary plexus, in common with the internal cutaneous, and the inner root of the median. It descends along the inner side of the brachial artery, as far as the insertion of the coraco-brachialis. The nerve then diverges from the artery, perforates the internal inter- muscular septum, and runs, in company with the inferior profunda artery, to the space between the internal condyle and the olecranon. Between the internal condyle and the olecranon, the ulnar nerve lies upon the internal lateral ligament of the elbow-joint, from which it is sometimes separated by a bursa of small size. In two in- stances a communication has been seen between the bursa and the synovial capsule of the elbow-joint. The ulnar nerve rarely gives any branches to the upper arm. In a few instances one or two slender filaments have been traced into the triceps muscle. 37. The lesser internal cutaneous nerve (nerve of Wrisberg), the smallest branch of the brachial plexus, assists the larger in- ternal cutaneous in supplying the skin on the inner and posterior surface of the upper arm. It arises in connexion with the internal cutaneous nerve, receives a communication in the axilla from the intt rcosto-humeral, passes along the inner side of the brachial artery, perforates the fascia near the middle of the arm, and supplies the integuments over the internal condyle and the olecranon. Previously to the examination of the musculo-spiral nerve it is well to have some knowledge of the great muscle which occupies nearly the whole of the posterior part of the humerus—viz. the triceps: to facilitate its dissection the fore-arm should be bent, and the strong fascia removed from the surface of the muscle. 38. The triceps extensor cubiti has three distinct origins or heads, named from their position the external, internal, and middle or long head. They are united to each other by loose cellular tissue, and may readily be seen on the inner side of the arm. The middle or long head will be found by dissecting below the head of the humerus immediately above the tendon of the latissimus dorsi; it -arises by a strong flat tendon from the inferior border of the scapula, close to the glenoid cavity.