PA11TS CONCERNED IN FEMORAL HERNIA. 425 covering, by uniting with the pubic portion of the muscular fascia, forms a sort of funnel, with the wide part uppermost, into which the femoral vessels enter. This is'what is meant by the funnel- shaped sheath of the femoral vessels. To examine this sheath satisfactorily, it would be necessary to remove the crural arch and part of the muscular fascia of the thigh. By so doing we should obtain a view of the sheath, and of the manner in which it is formed, abstracted from the surrounding structures. In a practical point of view, the sheath is interesting, for two reasons : 1, because it often constitutes one of the coverings of a femoral hernia; and 2, because in many cases it contains in its substance a pretty strong band of fibres, which crosses over the femoral vessels and the femoral ring just beneath, but quite inde- pendent of, the crural arch; so that it forms a kind of second, arch, deeper seated than the first. From the situation and direction of this band, it is clear that it would lie immediately over the neck of the sac in a femoral hernia; and it may be of itself sufficiently strong to cause the stricture. Indeed, in the operation for femoral hernia, with or without opening the sac, it is generally requisite to divide this band before the intestine can be returned. Through the inner side of the sheath the absorbent vessels of the thigh make their way into the abdomen. In some instances they all pass together through a single holt; in it of considerable size ; in others, there are several small openings for them. It is im- portant to remember this, for a reason which will appear directly. When the finger is introduced from the abdomen into the sheath, we cannot make our way far clown, because the sheath soon becomes closely connected with the proper investment of the femoral vessels. What, then, happens if the finger be pushed against the sheath with violence ? Either the sheath yields like an elastic membrane, or the point of the finger may protrude through an aperture in it, such as we have just now described as transmitting the femoral absorbents. Now, one or other of these results is precisely what takes place before a femoral hernia. Surgical writers speak of a femoral canal. By this is meant, simply, the passage which a hernia makes for itself as it escapes from the abdomen. There can be no objection to the term, pro-