226 STRUCTURE OF THE LUNGS. 138. Colour.—In consequence of the accumulation of blood which takes place in their vessels, the lungs are commonly of a livid red or violet colour; and they often present a mixture of tints, giving them a marble-like appearance. We must not consider this as the natural colour of the organ, since it is merely produced in the act of dying. It depends upon the stagnation of the venous blood, which the right ventricle still impels into the lungs, though respi- ration is failing. The tint varies in particular situations in pro- portion to the accumulation of the blood, and is of course always the deepest at the most depending part of the lung—that is, at the back, in accordance with the laws of gravity. But the colour of the proper tissue of the lung apart from the blood which it contains is pale and light grey. This pale colour is seldom seen except in the lungs of infants who have never breathed, or in cases of death from profuse haemorrhage; and it was particularly observed by the French surgeons in the lungs of individuals who were executed by the guillotine.* Upon or near the surface of the lung we may observe circum- scribed blackish or brownish spots, which do not in any degree depend upon the blood, since they are seen in the palest lungs. They present every variety, both in number and size, and generally increase with age. The source of these discolorations is not exactly known. Some consider them as deposits of minute par- ticles of carbon which have been inhaled with the air; others, as produced by some chemical change which the air undergoes. 139. Trachea.—This is a partly membranous and partly carti- laginous tube, which proceeds from the larynx opposite the fifth cervical vertebra, descends perpendicularly into the chest, and divides about the level of the third dorsal vertebra into two tubes, called the right and left bronchi, one for each lung. Its length is from 4 to 4\ inches. Its diameter is about 8 or 10 lines in the adult, but it varies according to the age of the individual and the natural volume of the lungs. It is surrounded by an abundance of loose cellular tissue, and is freely moveable upon the adjacent parts. The tube is preserved constantly open by a series of carti- * Bichat, Anat. descript. torn. iv. p. 12.