ARTERIES OE THE VISCERA.. 331 h Returning once more, and for the last time, to the peritoneum, anatomists sometimes speak of the lesser cavity of it, as distin- guished from the greater, and they say the communication between them takes place through the foramen of Winslow. Now this lesser cavity, or sac of the omentum, is situated between the stomach and the transverse mesocolon. If, in the foetus, air be blown into the foramen of Winslow, we distend the lesser cavity; that is, the air passes behind the stomach and then between the two down and the two up layers, so to speak, of the great omentum. As the child grows, the great omentum becomes adherent to the arch of the colon ; and thus the proper sac of the omentum is closed. But the cavity behind the stomach is permanent. 23. Our next subject should be the examination of the arteries which supply the viscera. The main trunk from which they are derived, namely the aorta, enter? the abdomen between the pillars of the diaphragm, e^d then descending in front of the spine, divides opposite the.fourth lumbar vertebra into the two common iliac arteries. In this course it gives off the following branches, generally in the order here described :— a. The phrenic, for the supply of the diaphragm. b. The cceliac axis.—This is a short thick trunk which imme- diately subdivides into three branches for the supply of the sto- mach, the liver, and the spleen. c. The superior mesenteric, for the supply of all the small in- testines and the upper half of the large. d. The supra-renal and the renal arteries. e. The spermatic, for the testicles in the male, and the ovaries in the female. f. The inferior mesentericfor the supply of the lower half of the large intestine. g. The lumbar, a series of branches, analogous to the inter- costals, for the supply of the back part of the abdomen. Now we shall trace these branches throughout in such order as is most convenient. Let us take the cceliac axis first. To dissect this artery and its branches the liver must be well raised, and a layer of peritoneum removed from the gastro-hepatic omentum. It will soon be discovered that there is a close network of very R