393 DISSECTION OF THE FEMALE PELVIS. uterus through the vagina. When, from any cause, the fascia becomes relaxed, there is consequently a greater liability to " pro- lapsus uteri." Levator ani.—For the description of this muscle see § 62. 88. Bladder,—The female bladder is broader transversely, and, upon the whole, more capacious than the male. The vesical plexus of veins, as might be expected, is not so large, and there is no prostate gland. But the short urethra has a constrictor muscle, as in the male, and is supported in a similar manner by the pelvic fascia. 89. Venous plexus,—Though the veins round the neck of the bladder are comparatively small in the female, attention will be immediately attracted by the plexus of large veins which surround the vagina and the rectum. They seem out of all proportion to the size of the arteries. Their congestion in pregnancy sufficiently accounts for the dark colour of the vagina and the external organs, and the frequent occurrence of hemorrhoidal tumors.* It is neces- sary to remove these veins, with the cellular tissue in which they are embedded, before a clear view of the parts can be obtained ; but the arteries should be carefully preserved for future examination. 90. Urethra.—Of the urethra we have already spoken at § 82. But in the side view of the parts we have the opportunity of ob- serving how closely the bladder and urethra are connected to the upper wall of the vagina, and we can have no difficulty in under- standing why, in cases of protracted delivery, it sometimes happens that the contiguous coats of the bladder and the vagina give way, and that there remains a fistulous communication between them, which continues to be a depending drain for the urine. 91. Vagina.—At the present stage of the dissection it is de- sirable to slit open the whole of the vagina along the side, and then we shall at once obtain a clear idea of the manner in which it embraces the lower end of the uterus, and of the extent to which * During pregnancy, varicose tumors may form even in the vagina. In the Berlin, med. Zeitung 1840, No. 11, a case is related of a woman who, at the sixth month, bled to death from the bursting of a large vein in the vagina. Other cases of the kind are related by Siebold.