362 SIDE VIEW OF THE PELVIC VISCEKA. 56* Respecting the pudic nerve little need be said, excepting that it corresponds both in its course and branches with the artery. It gives off its external hemorrhoidal, and its superficial perineal branches,—a small one to the bulb, and another still smaller to the crus penis; but the main trunk of the nerve runs with the artery along the dorsum of the penis to the glans, and we cannot fail to be struck with its large size. In its passage it supplies the integu- ments of the penis, and sends one or two branches into the corpus cavernosum. But this part of the penis also receives nerves from the sympathetic system. 57. Lastly, the penis being dissected from the upper part of the pubic arch, we have to notice the triangular ligament. It is nothing but a strong fibrous membrane which blocks up what is left of the arch above the constrictor urethrse. At the lower part of it there are several apertures which permit the great dorsal veins of the penis to pass into the plexus of veins around the prostate. ANATOMY OF THE SIDE VIEW OF THE PELVIC VISCERA. 58. To make a side view of the pelvic viscera, one of the inno- minate bones—say the left—should be removed in the following manner :—Detach the peritoneum and the levator ani from the left side of the pelvis; saw through the pubes about two inches from the symphysis, and cut through the sacro-iliac symphysis; then, by drawing the legs apart, and cutting through the pyriformis, sacro-ischiatic ligaments, and ischiatic nerves, the innominate bone comes away easily enough. This done, the rectum, or at all events its lower part, should be distended with horse-hair, and the bladder blown up through the ureter. Lastly, a staff should be passed through the urethra into the bladder. We presume the learner to be already familiar with the manner in which the peritoneum passes from the front of the rectum to the lower part of the bladder, and thence over the back of the bladder to the wall of the abdomen. We presume also a knowledge of the recto-vesical pouch and the practical points concerning it; else refer to § 41, 6. It is only necessary to observe, further, that