164 MUSCLES OF THE FACE. the pyramidalis; the middle form, with the corresponding muscle of the opposite side, a fibro-cellular expansion on the dorsum of the nose. Its peculiar action is not thoroughly understood : by some it is considered a compressor, by others a dilator of the nose. 67. Depressor ala nasi.—This muscle is situated between the mucous membrane and the muscular structure of the upper lip. To expose it, therefore, the upper lip must be everted and the mucous membrane removed. It arises from the alveolar surface of the upper jaw, above the second incisor and the canine teeth. The fibres ascend and terminate in the posterior part of the septum and the ala of the nose. 68. Besides the muscles above described, we find, in connexion with the cartilages of the ala of the nose, pale muscular fibres, in which, in most cases, no definite arrangement can be traced. In subjects, however, very favourable for the purpose, the two following muscles may be discovered :— a. The dilatator narium anterior arises from the upper border of the inferior cartilage of the nose : thence, its fibres, proceeding downwards, are lost upon the edge of the nostril. b. The dilatator narium posterior arises from the margin of the ascending process of the superior maxillary bone, and from the small sesamoid cartilages; the fibres thence descending terminate in the skin of the posterior part of the edge of the nostril. It is situated beneath all the other muscles of the nose. The little muscles acting upon the cartilages of the nose contri- bute in some degree to express the condition of the mind. Some of them dilate the nostrils; as, for instance, in dyspnoea; others contract them, as in smelling, when we sniff up the air towards the seat of the olfactory nerve. Though apparently feeble they are sufficiently strong to answer their purpose, in consequence of the facility with which the several cartilages of the nose are moved upon each other. 69. Buccinator.—This muscle consists of a flat stratum of fibres which form the foundation of the cheek. It arises from the alveolar border of the upper jaw, near the three last molar teeth, and from the alveolar border of the lower jaw, near the two last molars. But this is not all; for in the interval between these