PALM OF THE HAND. 59 partment in the palm, containing the flexor tendons and the prin- cipal vessels and nerves. Thus, when suppuration takes place in the loose cellular tissue surrounding the tendons, we can easily understand why it is so long prevented from reaching the surface, either in the palm, or on the back of the hand (see § 71.) 90. We have yet to examine in the palm a triangular muscle belonging to the thumb, called the adductor pollicis. It arises from the lower two-thirds of the shaft of the metacarpal bone of the middle finger; its fibres converge outwardly, and are inserted, along with the inner portion of the flexor brevis pollicis, into the ulnar side of the base of the first phalanx of the thumb. Its action is to draw the thumb towards the palm. 91. Muscles constituting the ball of the little finger.— The muscles of the little finger correspond in some measure with those of the thumb. Thus we have an abductor, a flexor brevis, and an opponens minimi digiti. They are covered by a thin layer of the palmar fascia, which must be removed. 92. The abductor minimi digiti, the most internal and superfi- cial of the muscles of the little finger, arises from the pisiform bone and from the tendon of the extensor carpi ulnaris. It passes along the border of the palm, and is inserted by a flat tendon into the inner side of the base^of the first phalanx of the little finger. Its action is to draw this finger from the rest. 93. The flexor brevis minimi digiti is a long slender muscle, situated along the radial side of the abductor, of which it might fairly be considered as a portion. It arises from the unciform bone and the annular ligament, and is inserted with the tendon of the abductor into the ulnar side of the base of the first phalanx of the little finger. Its action is similar to that of the abductor. Between the origins of the abductor and flexor brevis minimi digiti, the deep branch of the ulnar artery, accompanied by its nerve, sinks down to assist in forming the deep palmar arch. 94. The two last muscles must be reflected from their insertion, in order to expose the muscle beneath them, called the adductor, or opponens digiti minimi. It arises from the unciform bone and the anterior annular ligament. The fibres increase in length and obliquity from above downwards, and are inserted along the ulnar