SUBMAXILLARY REGION". 134 in number from seven to twelve. They terminate by minute openings behind the papilla of the submaxillary duct, along a ridge obser- vable upon the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth. They range from one-eighth to one-third of an inch in length. The ducts of those lobes in the immediate neighbourhood of Wharton's duct terminate in it. In some instances the sublingual glands are connected with each other in the mesial line. The duct of the submaxillary gland may now be seen crossing the gustatory nerve, and passing under the sublingual gland to the floor of the mouth. 28. Gustatory nerve,—This nerve will be found on the inner side of the sublingual gland. It is a branch of the inferior maxillary, or the third division of the fifth pair. It descends between the ramus of the jaw and the internal pterygoid muscle, and comes forwards along the upper part of the hyo-glossus, crossing at an acute angle over the Whartonian duct. Having reached the under part of the tongue, the nerve divides into numerous filaments which traverse the substance of this organ and supply the mucous membrane covering its anterior three-fourths. It has been already stated that the gustatory and hypo-glossal nerves are connected by filaments upon the surface of the hyo- glossus muscle. a. Submaxillary ganglion.—By carefully examining the gusta- tory nerve before it crosses the Whartonian duct, we shall find close to its lower border a small ganglion about the size of a pin's head, and rather flattened in appearance. Like the other ganglia of this kind, in connection with the branches of the fifth pair, (nervus trigeminus) we find that it receives nerve-filaments of three different kinds, viz. motor, sensitive, and sympathetic. Its motor root is represented by the corda-tympani, which, though apparently a branch of the gustatory, is in point of fact derived from the facial (a nerve of motion) during its course through the tympanum of the ear. Its sensitive roots proceed from the gustatory ; and its con- nexion with the sympathetic system of nerves is established by a branch which comes from the nervi molles encircling the facial artery. Thus provided with nerves from these several sources, the