198 ARCH OF THE AORTA. tions iii certain situations, so that it deviates from the perfectly cylindrical form. One of these, called the sinus or great bulge of the aorta, is observable on the right side of the arch about the junction of the ascending with the transverse portion ; just in that situation where one might expect such a dilatation from the impulse of the blood. It is little if at all marked in the infant, but increases with age. Three other dilatations, one corresponding to each of the valves at the commencement of the aorta, will be examined hereafter. e. Relations of the arch of the aorta to the sternum .—These necessarily vary in some measure, according to the size of the heart, the obliquity of the ribs, and the general development of the chest. In a well-formed adult the ascending aorta is, at the m<st prominent part of its bulge, about five-eighths of an inch distant from the first bone of the sternum. The highest part of the arch is on a plane about one and a half inch below the upper edge of the t ernum. In infants it is relatively higher, in consequence of the incomplete development of the bone, and also in the aged, in coiiscq leiiee of the dilatation of the arch. But even in adults it may vary ; more especially if there be any hypertrophy of the heart. As an instance among many, we may men lion that of a young female who died of phthisis. The position of the aortic valves was opposite the middle of the sternum on a level with the middle of the second costal articulation. The highest part of the arch was on a level with the upper border of the sternum ; the arteria innominata was situated entirely in front of the trachea; and the left vena innominata crossed the trachea so much above the sternum that it would have been directly exposed to injury in tracheotomy. From the upper part of the arch there commonly arise ihree great trunks for the supply of the head, neck, and upper limbs; namely, the brachio-cephalic or innominate artery, the left carotid, and the left subclavian. These we shall examine in succession. 102. The brachio-cephalic artery arises from the commence- ment of the transverse part of the arch. It ascends with a slight inclination to the right, and after a course of about one inch and a half, divides behind the sterno-clavicular joint into two arteries of