279 OTIC GANGLION. e. Vidian branch.—This is a very difficult nerve to trace. It proceeds from the posterior part of the ganglion, runs horizontally backwards through the canal at the root of the pterygoid process of the sphenoid bone, traverses the fibro-cartilage at the base of the skull, and here divides into two branches. One joins the sympathetic plexus about the internal carotid artery; the other (sometimes called the large petrosal) enters the cranium, runs outwards and backwards under the Gasserian ganglion and the dura mater, in a small groove on the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and finally enters the " hiatus Fallopii,'' and joins the facial nerve. It is probable that the vidian nerve proceeds not from, but to the ganglion, and that it is the medium through which motor filaments are conveyed to it.* 217. Otic ganglion.—In order to dissect this ganglion it is desirable that the parts concerned be taken from the basis of the skull of a fresh subject. The otic or auricular ganglion was discovered and described by Arnold, a celebrated German anatomist, in 1826.f " It is situated," he says," in man on the inner side of the inferior maxil- lary division of the fifth pair, immediately below its exit through the foramen ovale, and above the origin of the tempo-auricular nerve. Its inner surface is in contact with the circumflexus palati muscle and the cartilage of the Eustachian tube, and immediately behind it is the middle meningeal artery." It is always of verv small size; and since we have sometimes failed in finding it, we conclude it is not present in all subjects. Respecting its connexions with other nerves, Arnold states that it derives filaments (of sensation) from the inferior maxillary, and also from the branch of this nerve which goes to the internal pterygoid muscle. It also derives a slender filament from the temporo-auricular nerve. Its communication with the sympathetic is established by filaments which proceed from the " nervi molles's accompanying the internal maxillary artery. It communicates * See Longet, Anat. et. Phys. du Systeme Nerveux, vol. ii. p. 414* f J. Arnold, Diss, inaug. med, &c. Heidelbergae, 1826.