NAMES OF PARTS AT THE BASE OF THE BRAIN. 489 fit into the base of the skull. The anterior lobe rests upon the roof of the orbit, and is separated from the middle one by a cleft called the fissure of Sylvius, which receives the lesser wing of the sphenoid bone. The middle lobe occupies the middle fossa of the skull formed by the sphenoid and temporal bones. The posterior lobe rests on the arch of the tentorium. Between this and the pre- ceding there is no evident boundary; so that some anatomists, among whom may be mentioned the illustrious Haller, enumerate only two lobes.* Nomenclature of the parts seen at the base of the brain.—We must now examine the several objects seen at the base of the brain in the middle line, proceeding in order from the back part. In this description let it be understood that we omit the cerebral nerves. These, with the disposition of the great arteries at the base, will be more conveniently examined hereafter. Immediately above the medulla oblongata is a square protru- berance called the "Pons Varolii" This is the commissure which connects the two lobes of the cerebellum, and it is received into the basilar groove of the occipital bone. From the anterior border of the pons two round cords of nervous matter, about half an inch thick, diverge from each other,—one towards each hemisphere of the cerebrum. These are the crura cerebri. Winding round the outer side of each crus is seen a white band—the tractus opticus, or root of the optic nerve. These tracts converge, and, uniting in the middle line, constitute the commissure of the optic nerves. Between the crura cerebri the surface is perforated by a number of blood-vessels ; hence this spot is called the " locus perforatum pos- ticus,—posticus, as contra-distinguished from another part of the brain's base presenting similar perforations, situated at the root of * By separating the middle from the anterior lobe, may be recognised, deep in the fissure of Silvius, what is called the island of Reil. It is merely a portion of the under surface of the hemisphere, mapped out by a number of small and deep convolutions, which dove-tail, as it were, with those adjoining. It corresponds with the extra-ventricular part of the corpus striatum, and might, therefore, be called the lobule of that ganglion. A A 2