438 BRANCHES OE THE FEMORAL ARTERY. artery enclosed in its sheath with the vein. An opening should be made into the sheath just sufficient to admit the passage of the aneurismal needle, and this should be turned round the artery, from within outwards. The nerves to be avoided are—the long saphenous, which runs along the outer side of the artery, and the two other cutaneous nerves which cross obliquely over it.* Having already examined, at the outset of the dissection, the cutaneous branches of the femoral artery met with in the groin, we pass at once to the description of the profunda. 28. Profunda artery.—This is the chief branch of the femoral artery, and is, in fact, the proper nutritious artery of the thigh. It arises from the outer and back part of the femoral, about one and a half or two inches below the crural arch, and runs down behind the femoral till it reaches the tendon of the adductor longus ; here the profunda passes behind the adductor, and is finally lost in the hamstring muscles. We observe, in most subjects, that for a short distance after its origin it lies rather on the outer side of the femoral, over the psoas muscle, so that in this situation it might be mistaken for the femoral itself,—indeed, such an error has actually occurred in practice. It soon, however, gets quite behind the femoral, but is never in actual contact with it, for the two arteries are separated by their corresponding veins. The profunda gives off its branches generally in the following order:—1, the internal circumflex; 2, the external circumflex; 3, the perforating. a. The internal circumflex sinks deep into the thigh between the psoas and pectineus muscles. Here for the present we lose it; but we shall find it again in the dissection of the back of the thigh, between the adductor magnus and the quadrat us fern oris. It supplies numerous branches to the muscles in its neighbourhood,— namely, to the pectineus, psoas, the adductors, and the quadratus femoris. It also sends branches to the hip-joint, and one espe- cially which runs through the notch in the acetabulum to the li gam en turn teres. # The nerve (sometimes called the short saphenous) which supplies the vastus internus is so far out of the way, that it could not be included in the ligature, except by a very careless operator.