CERVICALIS ASCENDERS. TRACHELO-MASTOID.' 292 tinuation of the muscle, and that they are implanted into the five or six upper ribs. 243. Cervicalis ascendens.—This muscle is only the cervical continuation of the sacro-lumbalis. It arises by tendinous slips from the four or five upper ribs, and is inserted into the transverse processes (or stunted ribs) of the four or five lower cervical vertebrae. 244. Tracing, on the other hand, the longissimus dor si (the inner portion of the erector spinae), we find that there are detached from it a series of fleshy slips terminating in tendons which are inserted into the tubercles* at the root of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae, also into the transverse processes of all the dorsal vertebrae, and into the greater number of the ribs (varying from eight to eleven) close to their junction with the transverse processes. 245. Transversalis cervicis.—This is the cervical continuation of the longissimus dorsi. It arises by tendinous slips from the transverse processes of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth dorsal vertebrae, and is inserted into the transverse processes of all the cervical vertebrae, excepting the first and the last. 246. Trachelo-mastoid.—This muscle, situated on the inner side of the preceding, may be regarded as the continuation of the longissimus dorsi to the back of the cranium. It arises by slips of tendon from the transverse processes of the two or three upper dorsal, and the three or four lower cervical vertebrae, and is inserted by a flat tendon into the back part of the mastoid process beneath the splenius.f * Called " metapophyses" by Professor Owen. f Those who are familiar with the modern nomenclature of the vertebrate skeleton, will readily understand, from the following quotation, the plan upon which the muscles of the back are arranged :— " The muscles of the back are either longitudinal or oblique ; that is, they either pass vertically downwards from spinous process to spinous process, from diapophysis to diapophysis, from rib to rib, (pleurapophyses), &c., or they extend obliquely from diapophysis to spine, or from diapophysis to pleurapophysis, &c. " The erector spinse is composed of two planes of longitudinal fibres aggre-