128 SUBMAXILLARY REGION. spicuous object is the submaxillary gland. Observe that the fascia forms for it a complete case, to which it is simply connected by cellular tissue. Beneath the ramus of the jaw, we find, embedded in cellular tissue and fat, several absorbent glands, of which some lie superficial to the salivary gland, others beneath it. These glands receive the superficial absorbents of the face, the tonsils, the tongue, and the salivary glands themselves. A little dissection will expose a muscle called the digastricus, from its consisting of two distinct portions connected by an inter- mediate tendon. These two portions form, with the ramus of the jaw, a triangular space, of which we now propose to examine the contents. And first of the digastric muscle itself. 19. Digastricus.—This muscle consists of an anterior and a posterior portion united by a tendon which is connected by fascia to the os-hyoides. The posterior portion, the longer of the two, arises from a deep groove on the inner side of the mastoid process of the temporal bone. It descends forwards behind the angle of the jaw, and terminates upon a tendon, which, after sending an aponeurosis to the os-hyoides, turns upwards at an obtuse angle and gives attachment to the fibres of the anterior portion; this ascends towards the mesial line, and is fixed to the under surface of the symphysis of the jaw. Raise the submaxillary gland to see the tendon of the digastricus, and the manner in which it is fastened by aponeurosis to the body and greater cornu of the os-hyoides; observe also that this aponeu- rosis is connected in the mesial line with its fellow of the opposite side, so that a strong fibrous expansion occupies the interval between the anterior portions of the digastrici. Action.—When both portions of the digastric muscle contract, it is clear that the direction of the power will be in the diagonal of the two forces; consequently the os-hyoides will be raised. Hence it is an important muscle concerned in the act of deglutition. Of course the jaw must be fixed, for we cannot swallow without first shutting the mouth. Supposing the os-hyoides to be the fixed point, then the anterior portion will act as a depressor of the lower jaw, 19. Stylo-hyoideus.—This is a thin slender muscle which ac-