187 PNETJMO-GASTRIC NERVE. singular sigmoid curve, or even a complete curl upon itself, in its ascent near the pharynx. In such cases the least deviation of the instrument,.in an outward direction would almost surely injure the vessel; an occurrence of which instances have been recorded. The internal carotid does not give off any branches in the cer- vical portion of its course. 90. Ascending pharyngeal artery.—We have now a clear view of the course of this small vessel. Arising from the angle formed by the division of the common carotid, or perhaps from the com- mencement of the external carotid, it ascends by the side of the pharynx, towards the base of the skull. It gives off several branches which supply the upper part of the pharynx, the tonsils,, the Eustachian tube, and the muscles in front of the spine. One or more slender branches, called meningeal, enter the skull, either in company with the jugular vein or through the foramen lacerum medium, and supply the dura mater. 91. Pneumo-gastric nerve.—This nerve can at present be seen only in the cervical portion of its course. It is usually described as one of the three divisions of the eighth pair of cerebral nerves. It arises from the so-called restiform tract of the medulla oblon- gata by a series of filaments immediately below and on the same plane with those of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. It passes out of the skull in close company with the nervus accessorius, through the foramen jugulare. Very soon a ganglion is observed in its sub- stance analogous to the posterior or sensitive roots of all the spinal nerves, and it is joined by two considerable branches from its com- panion the nervus accessorius. Thus, the pneumo-gastric, probably only sensitive at its origin, becomes in consequence of this reinforcement a compound nerve, and in all respects analogous to a spinal nerve. So much, by way of explaining the various distribution and function of this nerve. Leaving the skull, then, at the foramen jugulare, it descends perpendicularly in front of the cervical vertebrse, lying successively upon the rectus capitis anticus major and the longus colli muscle. In the upper part of the neck it is situated behind the internal carotid artery, but in the lower, as already stated, between and k 2