LIGAMENTS OF THE HIP-JOIttT. 470 ligament, less distinct; 3. a sub-pubic ligament, or ligamentum arcuatum : it is remarkably strong, and rounds off the point of the pubic arch ; 4. an intermediate fibro-cartilage. If we make a perpendicular section through it, we observe that it consists of concentric layers, and that its general structure resembles that between the bodies of the vertebrae. 101. Sacro-iliac symphysis*—This is secured by L ligamentous fibres in front; 2. ligamentous fibres much more marked, and col- lected in bundles behind ; 3. a very strong ligament called the ilio- lumbar, which extends from the transverse process of the last lumbar vertebra to the crest of the ilium; 4. the greater sacro- ischiatic ligament, one of enormous strength, which extends from the sacrum and coccyx to the tuberosity of the ischium; and 5. the lesser sacro-ischiatic, which extends from the sacrum and coccyx to the spine of the ischium. Both these last not only con- nect the bones, but also, from their great breadth, contribute to block up the lower aperture of the pelvis. Even supposing all the above ligaments be divided, we still find that the ilium adheres most firmly to the sacrum. If they be forcibly separated, it is then seen that they are connected in front by a layer of cartilage, of which the shape is not unlike that of the ear, and behind by strong ligamentous fibres, the surfaces to which they were attached being left rough and bare. 102. Ligaments of the hip-joint.—This joint is secured by the very form of the bones, and by the great strength of the many powerful muscles which surround it. Being a perfect ball and socket, so far as the mere bones are concerned, one might suppose that it would admit of universal motion, but it is not so; for we shall presently find that the disposition of its ligaments is such as to restrict its range of motion to those directions only which are most consistent with the maintenance of the erect atti- tude, and the general requirements of this part of the skeleton. The most important ligament, and that which presents the most interesting peculiarities, is the capsular. It is attached, on the one hand, to the circumference of the acetabulum at a little dis- tance from the margin, and, on the other, to the base of the neck