225 STRUCTURE OF THE LUNGS. the atmospheric air. Their situation and shape have been already described (§ 109). Our chief concern now is with their general structure, and the anatomy of their component parts. The lungs are composed of cartilaginous and membranous tubes, of which the successive subdivisions extend through its substance and convey the air into a congeries of closely-packed and minute cells, commonly called the air vesicles ; of the ramifications of the pulmonary artery and veins ; of the bronchial vessels concerned in their nutrition; of lymphatics and nerves. These component parts are all united by a fine cellular tissue, and covered externally by the reflected pleura. The point at which they respectively enter and pass out is called the root of the lung. The air-cells of which the lung consists are dilated in inspiration, and still penetrated with air even in the most complete expiration. The most numerous incisions and the strongest pressure will hardly get rid of all the air from the lungs. In consequence of this they are the lightest organs in the body, and swim when immersed in water. But when entirely deprived of this air, and reduced as it were to their own substance, they sink. This is observed in cer- tain pathological conditions; as, for instance, when one lung is compressed by effusion into the chest, or when it is rendered solid and impervious to air by inflammation. 137. Contractility of the lung,—If a wound be made into the chest in the dead subject, the lung, which was before in contact with the pleura, immediately recedes from it, and, provided there be no adhesions, gradually diminishes in volume. Again, if the lungs be artificially inflated, either in or out of the chest, we observe that, if left to themselves, they spontaneously expel a part of the air. This constant disposition to contract, inherent in the living and the dead lung, is owing to a certain amount of elastic tissue in the bronchial tubes and the air-cells; but more especially to a layer of very delicate elastic tissue which is spread over the surface of the lung, and which has been described by some ana- tomists as a distinct coat, under the name of the second or inner layer of the pleura.* * In some animals, the seal especially, the elasticity of this tissue is very strongly marked.