276 SUPERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. The same dissection exposes the terminal branches of the internal maxillary artery. 215. The superior maxillary nerve is the second division of the fifth cerebral nerve. Proceeding from the Gasserian ganglion (see § 188), it leaves the skull through the foramen rotundum, passes horizontally forwards and a little outwards across the spheno- maxillary fossa, enters the infra-orbital canal with the corresponding artery, and finally emerges upon the face through the infra-orbital foramen. The branches should be traced in the order in which they are given off— «. The orbital branch already described (§ 233). b* Branches to the spheno-palatine ganglion.—In the spheno- maxillary fossa the nerve sends down two branches to a small ganglion situated immediately below it. This ganglion will be described presently. c. One or two small palatine nerves.—These descend, inde- pendent of the spheno-palatine ganglion, to the palate. d. Posterior dental branches.—Of these there are commonly two or three. They descend along the back part of the superior maxillary bone, and divide into smaller branches which pass through holes in the bone in company with minute arteries, and then run up the fangs of the molar teeth to supply the pulp. They also supply the gums, and the lining membrane of the antrum. e. Anterior dental branch.—This arises just before the nerve emerges from the infra-orbital foramen. It descends in a special canal excavated in the anterior wall of the superior maxilla, runs downwards and inwards, and gives off minute filaments to the fangs of the first molar, canine, and incisor teeth. It also supplies the gums and the mucous lining of the antrum. To trace the several branches of this nerve it is necessary to cut away the bone with a chisel. The terminal branches of the infra-orbital nerve were dissected with the face (§ 74). At this stage of the dissection it is necessary to make a vertical incision rather on one side of the middle line of the skull, in order to expose the cavity of the nose. We shall thus be able to