DISSECTION OF THE FEMALE PELVIS. 392 region, just as they do in the male, because the ovaries are origi- nally formed in the loins. a. If we look on the anterior surface of the broad ligament, we see on either side between its layers what is called the round liga- ment of the uterus. This is a cord which proceeds from the fundus of the uterus, through the inguinal canal, just like the spermatic cord in the male, and terminates in the mons veneris. Besides one or two small blood-vessels, it contains muscular fibres analogous to those of the uterus ; these increase very much in pregnancy, so that, about the full term, the cord becomes nearly as thick as the end of the little finger. 85. Side view oe the female pelvis.—After the removal of the innominate bone, as described at § 58, the vagina, rectum, and bladder should be moderately distended, and a catheter passed into the urethra. This done, let us first trace the reflections of the peritoneum. 86. Reflections of the peritoneum.—From the front of the rectum the peritoneum is reflected on to just a small part of the vagina, thus forming what is called the recto-vaginal pouch. From the vagina we trace the peritoneum over all the back, but only about half way down the front of the uterus; thence it is at once reflected over the posterior surface of the bladder, on to the wall of the abdomen. We can easily understand, that in eases of ascites the water might distend the recto-vaginal pouch, and bulge into the vagina, and that it would be piacticable to draw it off through this channel.* 87. Pelvic fascia.—To the description of the fascia already given in the dissection of the male pelvis (§ 59), nothing need here be added except that from the side of the pelvis it is reflected over the side of the vagina and the uterus as well as the bladder. It is this fascia which in great measure supports and slings up the uterus in its proper level in the pelvis. Of its efficacy in this respect any one may be convinced by trying to pull down the * In the Medical Communications, vol. i., a case is related in which four gallons of fluid were drawn off by tapping through the vagina. The woman im- mediately afterwards passed urine, which she could not do befc *e. See also a case in Med. and Phys. Journal, vol. vii. p. 412.