209 (ESOPHAGUS* inject the duct with melted wax or tallow, so that it may be the more readily followed in its course through the chest. From the abdomen, the thoracic duct passes through the aortic opening of the diaphragm, and ascends on the right side of the aorta, receiving in its course the lymphatic vessels of the adjacent parts. About the third or fourth dorsal vertebra it passes under the oesophagus, and ascends on the left side of this tube, between it and the subclavian artery, as high as the level of the seventh cervical vertebra. Here it describes a curve with the convexity upwards, and opens into the back part of the confluence of the jugular and subclavian veins. The orifice is guarded by two valves, which permit the passage of fluid from the duct into the vein, but not vice versa: other valves, disposed like those of the venous system, are found at intervals in different parts of the duct. The thoracic duct may vary in size in different individuals. We have seen it of all sizes, intermediate between a crow-quill and a goose-quill. It may divide in its course into two branches, which subsequently re-unite; or instead of one, there may be several terminal orifices. Instances have been observed in which the duct has terminated on the right instead of the left side.* It has been seen to terminate in the vena azygos.f 115. (Esophagus,—This name is given to that part of the ali- mentary canal which conveys the food from the pharynx to the stomach. It commences about the fifth cervical vertebra, and, descending through the back part of the chest, passes through a special opening in the diaphragm to the stomach. It is from nine to ten inches in length. The direction of its course is not exactly vertical: in the neck, we have seen that it lies behind and rather to the left of the trachea; in the chest, however, about the fifth dorsal vertebra, it inclines towards the right side, to make way for the aorta, but it again inclines to the left before it perforates the diaphragm. It is surrounded on all sides by an abundance of loose cellular tissue, so that no obstacle is presented to the passage of the food. * Fleischman, Leichenoeffnungen. 1815. f Muller's Archives. 1834.