MEATUS OF THE NOSE. 285 through the nasal cavities, a little on one side of the middle line, we expose the partly bony and partly cartilaginous partition {septum narium) by which they are divided. We notice that the greatest perpendicular depth of each nasal fossa is about the centre, and that from this point the depth gradually lessens, both towards the anterior and the posterior openings of the nose. Laterally, each fossa is very narrow in consequence of the projection of the spongy bones towards the septum : this narrowness in the transverse direc- tion explains the rapidity with which swelling of the lining mem- brane from a simple cold may obstruct the passage of the air. The boundary of the nasal fossae is formed by the following bones : Superiorly, there are the strong nasal bones, the sethmoid, and the body of the sphenoid ; inferiorly, there are the horizontal plates of the maxillary and palate bones ; internally, there is the smooth and flat septum formed by the sethmoid, the vomer, and the cartilage; externally, there are the maxillary, the lachrymal, the sethmoid, the palate, and the pterygoid plate of the sphenoid bone. 230. Meatus.-—The outer wall of the nasal cavity is divided by the turbinated bones into three compartments (meatus) of unequal size ; and in these there are orifices leading to air-cells (sinus) in the sphenoid, sethmoid, frontal, and superior maxillary bones. Each of these compartments we should individually examine. 231. The superior meatus is the smallest of the three, and does not extend beyond the posterior half of the wall of the nose. We find in it one wide opening, or perhaps two of smaller size, which lead into the posterior aethmoidal cells, and another which leads into the sphenoidal. 232. The middle meatus is larger than the superior. At its anterior part is observed a long narrow passage (infundibulum), which conducts upwards and forwards to the frontal and the ante- rior sethmoidal cells. About the middle there is a small opening which leads into the great air cavity, or antrum of the superior maxilla: this opening in the dry bone is large and irregular, but in the recent state it is considerably reduced in size by mucous membrane, so that a very little swelling of the membrane is suffi- cient to close the orifice entirely. It may be noticed that the orifices of the frontal and sethmoid