280 GLOSSOPHARYNGEAL NERVE IN THE JUGULAR FOSSA. also with the facial and glosso-pharyngeal nerves by a branch com- monly called the small petrosal nerve. This nerve passes back- wards either through the foramen ovale or the foramen spinosum, or else through a small hole between the two, and then runs beneath the dura mater along a minute groove on the petrous bone (outside the large petrosal nerve). Here it divides into two filaments, one of which joins the facial nerve in the aqueductus Fallopii, the other joins the tympanic branch of the glosso-pharyngeal. These nerves are exceedingly difficult to trace, not only on account of their minute size, but also because they frequently run in canals in the petrous portion of the temporal bone. * The otic ganglion appears to send a branch to the tensor tym- pani and to the circumflexus palati muscles. It may fairly be asked why Arnold called the ganglion " otic or auricular." He states that by means of a filament from the lesser petrosal it communicates with the auditory nerve. But this must be doubtful, to say the least, since no other anatomist has, so far as we know, traced any connexion of the kind. DISSECTION OF THE EIGHTH PAIR OF NERVES AT THE BASE OF THE SKULL. 218. In this dissection we propose to examine the glosso- pharyngeal, pneumo-gastric, and spinal accessory nerves in the jugular fossa, and also the little ganglia and nerves belonging to them in this part of their course. These are very minute points of anatomy, and can hardly be followed out with success unless the nerves have been previously hardened by spirit, and the bones softened by acid. The first thing to be done is to remove the outer wall of the jugular fossa. 219. Glosso-pharyngeal.—This passes through a separate tube of dura mater in front of that for the other two nerves. Looking at it from the interior of the skull we observe that it is situated immediately in front and rather to the inner side of the great jugular sinus. In its passage through the fossa, the nerve presents two