326 PERITONEUM. caput coli. Into the back part of this pouch there opens a little independent tube closed at the other end, called the appen- dix vermiformis. This tube is generally three inches long, about as thick as a tobacco-pipe, and is either coiled up behind the caecum, or else is connected to it by a peritoneal fold, so as to hang loose in the pelvis. The commencement of the large intestine is generally confined by the peritoneum to the iliac fossa, in which it lies.* Tracing it onwards from this point, we find that it ascends in front of the right kidney, and then, crossing the umbilical region towards the left side,f descends in front of the left kidney \ into the iliac fossa, where it curves like the letter S. These successive portions of the large intestine are termed respectively the ascending, transverse, descending, and sigmoid parts of its course. Lastly, the bowel enters the pelvis on the left side of the sacrum, and here takes the name of rectum. This term, so far as concerns the human subject, is misapplied; the canal runs anything but a straight course through the pelvis, for it curves so as to adapt itself to the sacrum. Looking at the entire course of the colon, we observe that it forms an arch, of which the concavity embraces the convolutions of the small intestines. 22. Peritoneum.—Since a certain range of motion is necessary to the function of the abdominal viscera, they are provided with a serous membrane, called the peritoneum. This membrane not * But this is not invariably so, The bowel is, in some subjects, connected to the fossa by a fold of peritoneum or a " meso-ccecum." We have seen this fold sufficiently loose to allow the caput coli to travel quite over to the left iliac fossa. f This transverse part of the colon, in some instances, makes a coil behind the stomach to the diaphragm ; such a state of things, when the bowel happens to be distended, is apt to give rise to symptoms of diseased heart. See some observations in point by Dr. Copland, in Lond. Med. Gaz., vol. v. 1847, p. 660. % The contiguity of the ascending and descending colon to the right and left kidney, respectively, explains the occasional bursting of renal abscesses into the intestinal canal.