380 STRUCTURE OF THE PROSTATE. sinus. Now the whole suhstance of the gland is permeated by the divisions and subdivisions of these ducts. They are not visible to the naked eye, but if one of them were thoroughly traced out with the microscope, it would be seen to terminate in a blind sacculated extremity, upon which the capillaries ramify in rich profusion.* d. After what has been seen, it will naturally suggest itself, that any change in the dimensions of the prostate gland must in a greater or less degree influence the canal which runs through it. For instance, if the entire gland be uniformly enlarged, the canal will be lengthened in proportion ; if the enlargement preponderate on this or that side, then the canal will deviate more or less from its ordinary course. In either case, however, a suitable catheter would pass without much difficulty into the bladder. But suppos- ing the middle or third lobe to become enlarged, then there arises, at the very neck of the bladder, a tumor, which will, in proportion to its size, more or less obstruct the passage of the urine. In the efforts made, when such is the case, to introduce a catheter into the bladder, it sometimes happens that the end of the instrument is pushed right through this hypertrophied lobe.f 75. Respecting the internal structure of the vesiculce seminales, we need only observe that their mucous membrane is lined by a scaly epithelium, and that it presents a beautiful reticular or honeycomb structure, not unlike that of the gall-bladder, only on a smaller scale: the purpose of this is to increase the extent of the secreting surface. 76. The glands of Cowper have already been examined in situ in the dissection of the perineum. We find them close to the urethra, one on either side, immediately behind the bulb. They consist of an aggregation of smaller glands, of which the collective size is somewhat larger than a pea. Each pours its secretion by a * This was first demonstrated by Mr. Quekett. The same distinguished anatomist has also discovered that the secreting cells of the gland contain calculi of microscopic minuteness. He finds them, almost without exception, in the prostate at every period of life. For further detail concerning them consult the article " Prostate," in Todd's Cyclopaedia. f See in the Museum of St. Bartholomew's, Prep. 8 and 21, Series xxix.