SAPHENOUS OPENING. 420 course it receives several tributary veins, some of which are often as large as itself; and, just before its termination, it is joined by the superficial veins of the groin already alluded to. Like all subcuta- neous veins, it is provided at intervals with valves, to support the column of the blood ; and when these happen, from any cause, to be inefficient, the vein is apt to become enlarged and tortuous. Postponing for the present the description of the general muscu- lar fascia of the thigh, called the fascia lata, let us now examine the opening in it which transmits the saphena vein. 6. Saphenous opening in the fascia lata.—Immediately below the crural arch there is an opening in the muscular fascia of the thigh, which, as it gives passage to the saphena vein, is appropriately called "the saphenous." Now since this opening is one of the parts concerned in the anatomy of femoral hernia, the mode in which it is formed, its shape, dimensions, and borders,— n fact, every thing connected with it,—is described by anatomical writers with very minute precision. He who dissects these parts for the first time can hardly expect to make them out satisfactorily, still less to make his dissection tally with the descrip- tion usually given. The fact is, that this saphenous opening is a sort of anatomical puzzle, complicated at first sight, but simple enough when fairly explained. After the subcutaneous structure has been carefully removed, and the saphena vein traced to where the opening in the fascia is said to be, the learner will probably be perplexed at not finding it; and very naturally, for it is not visible. The reason of this is, that the deep layer of the subcutaneous tissue, as it passes over the opening, is intimately connected to its margin, so that this does not appear unless the above-mentioned layer be cut away from it. Now since this layer closes the opening, we can have no difficulty in under- standing that it must be perforated by all the vessels passing through the opening: hence it has received the name of cribri- form fascia. Let it be understood that this is no superadded membrane, but only part of the general subcutaneous structure. When a femoral hernia protrudes at the saphenous opening, this cribriform fascia necessarily becomes one of its coverings. The cribriform fascia must, therefore, be cut away before we can