TEMPORAL VESSELS AND NERVES. 172 nerve, in consequence of the filaments which it receives from the temporo-auricular branch of the fifth. We now turn our attention to the sensitive nerves of the face. 74. Infra-orbital nerve.—This is the terminal branch of the superior maxillary or second division of the fifth nerve. It emerges in company with its corresponding artery from the infra-orbital foramen, covered by the levator labii superioris muscle. The nerve immediately divides into several branches, of which some, ascend- ing beneath the orbicularis muscle, supply all the component struc- tures of the lower eyelid; others pass inwards to supply the struc- tures on the outside of the nose; but by far the greater number descend into the upper lip, and eventually terminate in lashes of filaments, which run to the papillae of the lip, and endow it with exquisite sensibility. a. The infra-orbital artery is the terminal branch of the internal maxillary ; it supplies the muscles and integument, and inosculates with branches of the facial. 75. Mental nerve.—This is a branch of the inferior maxillary or third division of the fifth nerve. It emerges from the mental foramen in the jaw, in a direction upwards and backwards, beneath the depressor labii inferioris. It soon divides into a number of branches which curve forwards; some of these supply the skin of the chin, but the greater number ascend to the integument and mucous membrane of the lower lip, in which they terminate after the manner described in the upper lip. a. The mental artery is a branch of the inferior dental. It supplies the gums and the chin, and inosculates with the sub-mental and inferior coronary arteries. The next subject we propose to examine is the anatomy of the muscles of mastication, and the course of the internal maxillary and temporal arteries. MUSCLES OF MASTICATION. TEMPORAL AND INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERIES. Immediately beneath the skin of the temple we find a layer of tough fibro-cellular tissue, which is continuous above with the