INTERCOSTAL MUSCLES* 212 b. Minute nerves from the third and fourth ganglia to the pul- monary plexus. c. The greater splanchnic nerve.—This is generally formed by branches from the sixth to the tenth ganglion. The branches descend obliquely along the sides of the bodies of the vertebrae, and unite into a single nerve, which passes through the correspond- ing crus of the diaphragm and joins the great semilunar ganglion of the abdomen. d. The lesser splanchnic nerve.—This is commonly formed by branches from the tenth and eleventh ganglia. It passes through the crus of the diaphragm to the renal plexus, giving, in its course, a filament to the semilunar ganglion. e. In a very few instances we have been able to trace a minute filament from one of the ganglia into the body of a vertebra. Ac- cording to a celebrated French anatomist,* each vertebra receives one. 118. Intercostal muscles.—These, as their name implies, fill up the intervals between the ribs. Between each rib there are two layers, which cross each other like the letter X. The external layer is attached to the opposite borders of two contiguous ribs, and the direction of its fibres is obliquely from behind forwards, just like those of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen. The internal layer is attached to the inner border of two ribs, and its fibres run directly opposite to the preceding, like those of the in- ternal oblique. It may be observed that a few fibres, chiefly near the spine, pass over one or even two ribs, and terminate upon a rib lower down. But neither of these layers extends throughout the whole distance between the sternum and the spine : for the outer layer, beginning at the spine, ceases at the cartilages of the ribs; while the inner, commencing at the sternum, ceases at the angles of the ribs. The intercostal muscles present a curious intermixture of tendi- nous and fleshy fibres; and they are covered both inside and outside the chest by a glistening fascia, for the purpose of giving greater strength and protection to the intercostal spaces. * Cruveilhier.