165 MUSCLES OF THE FACE. points of origin its fibres are attached to the so-called pterygo-maxil- lary ligament, which is the intermediate bond of connection between them and the fibres of the superior constrictor of the pharynx. We shall presently see that these two muscles, conjointly, form an un- interrupted muscular wall for the side of the mouth and the pharynx. The fibres of the buccinator proceed forwards from their origin, and gradually converge towards the angle of the mouth, lying on a deeper plane than the other muscles in this situation. They are finally lost in the muscular structure of the lips; but with a little care we may observe that the middle fibres of the muscle cross each other at the angle of the mouth before their termination. The duct of the parotid gland passes through the muscle near the second molar tooth of the upper jaw. The chief action of the muscle is to keep the food well between the teeth during mastication. It can also widen the mouth. Its power of forcibly expelling air from the mouth, as, for instance, in whistling or playing on a wind instrument, has given rise to its peculiar name. a. Buccal fascia.—The buccinator muscle is covered by a layer of fibrous tissue, which adheres closely to its surface, and is attached to the alveolar border of the upper and the lower jaw. This struc- ture is comparatively thin over the anterior part of the muscle, but much more dense and resisting posteriorly, in which direction it is continuous with the aponeurosis of the pharynx. By some ana- tomists it is called the " bucco-pharyngeal" fascia, since it supports and strengthens the muscular walls of these cavities. It is in con- sequence of the resistance of this fascia that abscesses do not readily burst into the mouth or the pharynx. b. Molar glands.—These glands, not more than three or four in number, are situated immediately outside the posterior part of the buccinator. They are about the size of a split pea, and their secretion is conveyed to the mouth by separate ducts near the last molar tooth. Between the buccinator and the masseter muscles there is, in almost all subjects, a greater or less accumulation of fat. It is found beneath the zygoma especially, in the shape of large round masses, and may readily be turned out with the handle of the seal-