63 MUSCLES OF THE BACK CONNECTED WITH THE ARM. 103. The trapezius is a broad flat muscle situated immediately beneath the skin of the cervical and upper part of the dorsal region. Taken alone it is triangular, but with its fellow of the opposite side it presents a trapezoid form. It arises by aponeu- rotic fibres from the spine of the occiput, and from the inner fourth, more or less, of its superior curved line ; from the ligamentum nuchae, and from the spinous processes of the seventh cervical, and all the dorsal vertebrae, as well as the interspinous ligaments. The fibres converge towards the shoulder. The upper are inserted fleshy into the external third of the clavicle ; the middle, into the upper border of the acromion process and spine of the scapula; the lower terminate in a broad thin tendon, which plays over the triangular surface at the back of the scapula, and is inserted into the beginning of the spine. A bursa is frequently found between the tendon and the bone. The insertion of the trapezius exactly corresponds to the origin of the deltoid, and the two muscles are more or less connected by a thin aponeurosis over the spine and acromion process of the scapula. If both the trape- zius muscles be exposed, it will be observed, that, between the sixth cervical and the third dorsal vertebra, their origin presents an aponeurotic space of an elliptical form. Action,—The fixed point of the muscle is at the vertebral column, and all its fibres tend to raise the shoulder. The deltoid cannot raise the humerus to an angle of more than 50° : beyond this the elevation of the arm is principally effected by the action of the trapezius upon the scapula. It is necessarily in strong action when a weight is bora upon the shoulders. 102. The ligamentum nucha is a structure consisting of dense fibrous tissue, which extends from the spine of the occiput to the spinous process of the last cervical vertebra. In some subjects it is difficult to distinguish it from the aponeurosis of the trapezius which arises from it; in others it is more conspicuous, and may be traced down to the spinous processes of the five or six lower cervical vertebrae, forming a more or less complete partition between the muscles at the back of the neck. It is a rudiment of the great elastic cervical ligament of quadrupeds which sustains the weight of the bead.