FRONT OF THE FORE-ARM. 41 In the upper half of its course the artery inclines obliquely in- wards, describing a gentle curve with the concavity towards the radius, and situated deep beneath the superficial layer of muscles— the pronator teres, flexor carpi radialis, palmaris longus, and flexor sublimis digitorum. In the lower part of its course it descends longi- tudinally between the flexor sublimis digitorum and flexor carpi ul- naris, and is only covered by the general aponeurosis of the forearm and a strong layer of fascia,which passes from the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris to the flexor profundus digitorum. At its commence- ment the ulnar artery rests for a short distance on the insertion of the brachialis anticus muscle ; in the remainder of its course it lies on the flexor profundus digitorum. The ulnar nerve, passing behind the internal condyle, is at first separated from the artery by a considerable interval: about the middle third of the forearm it joins the artery, and accompanies it in the rest of its course, lying close to its inner side. Both pass over the anterior annular ligament of the carpus, lying close to the pisiform bone,—the nerve being nearer to the bone, and the artery more superficial. A strong aponeurotic expansion from the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris protects them in this exposed situation. As the artery lies on the brachialis anticus muscle it is crossed superficially by the median nerve,—the second head of the pronator teres intervening. In some instances this second head passes beneath the artery. Observation should be particularly directed to the depth of the ulnar artery from the surface, and the many muscles which cover it in the upper third of its course. In the middle third of the fore-arm it is partially overlapped by the flexor carpi ulnaris. In the lower third it lies close to the radial border of the flexor carpi ulnaris, which is the proper guide to the vessel. 61. The following are the principal branches of the ulnar artery in the forearm : The anterior and posterior ulnar recurrent arteries arise im- mediately below the elbow-joint,—sometimes by a common trunk, sometimes separately. The anterior; the smaller of the two, passes upwards in front of