MUSCLES OF THE SHOULDER. 69 scapula. The upper portion of the muscle, which is the shortest and thickest, is inserted into the internal surface of the scapula, immediately below its superior angle; the middle, which is the weakest, is inserted by short aponeurotic fibres into the base of the scapula, between the rhomboid and subscapular muscles; the lower is inserted into the internal surface of the inferior angle of the scapula. Action.—This is the most important of all the muscles which regulate the movements of the scapula on the chest; it counteracts all forces which tend to push the scapula backwards; by drawing the scapula forwards, it gives us two or three additional inches in the reach of the arm. Supposing the fixed point to be at the scapula, some anatomists ascribe to it the power of raising the ribs: hence Sir Charles Bell called it the external respiratory muscle, as opposed to the internal respiratory muscle, the diaphragm. The nerve which supplies the muscle is a branch of the fifth and sixth cervical nerve : it descends along its outer surface (see § 15). Divide the serratus magnus near the scapula, and remove the arm by sawing through the middle of the clavicle, and cutting through the axillary vessels and nerves. These should subse- quently be tied to the coracoid process. After the removal of the arm, the precise insertion of the preceding muscles into the scapula should be carefully examined. DISSECTION OF THE MUSCLES OF THE SHOULDER. 114. Remove the skin from the shoulder: the subcutaneous tissue over its anterior surface gives origin to a few fibres of the platysma myoides. A small absorbent gland is, in some few in- stances, found over the insertion of the deltoid. The cutaneous nerves of the shoulder are derived partly from the branches of the cervical plexus which descend over the acromion, (see § 2), and partly from the circumflex nerve, of which one or two branches turn round the posterior border of the deltoid, and others, smaller, perforate the muscle, each accompanied by a small artery. The thin layer of fascia observed upon the surface of the deltoid extends from the strong aponeurosis covering the muscles on the dorsum of the scapula, and is continuous with the fascia of the