435 COURSE OF THE FEMORAL ARTERY. as a rule, distinct from the synovial membrane of the knee-joint; but after a few years of friction we generally find a wide commu- nication between them. We must here say a few words respecting the structures which cover the patella. The skin over it is exceedingly loose, and in the subcutaneous tissue there is a bursa of considerable size. Since this bursa is apt to enlarge and inflame in females who are in the habit of kneeling, it generally goes by the name of " the house- maid's bursa." It is worth observing that the bursa is not seated exactly on the top of the patella, but that it extends some way down the ligamentum patellae; indeed, in some cases it is entirely confined to this ligament. This quite conesponcls with the position of the tumor which the bursa occasions when enlarged. Generally speaking, in subjects brought for dissection, the wall of the bursa is more or less thickened, and its interior intersected by numerous fibrous cords, which are remnants of the original cellular structure altered by long-continued friction. Again, the wall of the bursa does not always form a complete sac ; sometimes there is a wide opening in it; this explains the rapidity with which inflammation, in some cases, extends from the bursa into the surrounding cellular tissue. Below the bursa over the patella there is a layer of fascia lata, and under this there is a beautiful network of arteries. The imme- diate covering of the bone, or what may be called its periosteum, is a strong expansion derived from the extensor tendon. This is practically interesting for the following reason : in ordinary frac- tures of the patella from muscular action the tendinous expansion over it is torn also; the ends of the bone gape widely, and never unite except by ligament. But in fractures from direct mechanical violence, the expansion being, generally speakiug, entire, maintains the fragments in apposition, so that there is commonly a bony union. Having studied so far the anatomy of the muscles, we should replace them as much as possible in their natural position, in order to examine the course and relations of the femoral artery. 27. Course and relations of the femoral artery.— The femoral artery is a continuation of the external iliac. Passing x 2