DISSECTION OF THE TESTIS. 545 testis), as well as the mediastinum from which the) proceed, are readily seen on making a transverse section through the gland. Respecting the so-called tunica vasculosa, nothing more need be said than that it consists of a multitude of fine blood-vessels, formed by the ramifications of the spermatic artery, and held together by delicate cellular tissue. It lines the inner surface of the tunica albuginea, and gives off vessels which run with the fibrous cords into the interior of the gland. Glandular structure.—When the testicle is cut into, its interior looks soft and pulpy, and of a reddish-grey colour. It consists of an innumerable multitude of minute convoluted tubes (tubuli semi- niferi). For convenience of package, they are arranged in lobes, between four and five hundred* in number, of various sizes, and contained in the compartments formed by the fibrous cords pro- ceeding from the mediastinum testis. Though disposed in lobes, still they communicate with each other, and thus form one vast network of tubes. The secretion from them is carried off by some forty or fifty straight vessels (vasa recta), which penetrate the me- diastinum testis, and there form a plexus of seminal tubes,, termed the rete testis. This lies along the back of the gland. From the upper part of the rete the secretion is carried away to the large end of the epididymis by means of fifteen or twenty tubes, termed vasa efferentia. These, after forming a vast number of coils, termed coni vasculosi, which collectively constitute the globus major of the epididymis, ultimately terminate, one after the other, in a single duct, the commencement of the vas deferens. Commencing, then, in the globus major of the epididymis, the vas deferens descends, making a series of extremely tortuous coils, which alone form the globus minor, f From the lower part of the globus minor the vas deferens ascends, joining the other component parts of the spermatic cord, passes through the inguinal canal, winds round the back part of the bladder, and finally empties itself into * This estimate is according to Krause, Miiller's Archiv fur Anat. 1837. f A little blind duct, called vasculum aberrans, is sometimes connected either to the epididymis or the vas deferens.