313 ACTION OP THE ABDOMINAL MUSCLES. from the upper part of the pubes in front of the rectus, and termi- nates in a pointed manner about midway between the pubes and the umbilicus. It is said to be of use in tightening the linea alba, but it does not appear to have any special purpose in the human subject, for it is sometimes deficient on one or even both sides. By dividing the rectus transversely near the umbilicus, and raising it from its position, we have a complete view of ihe manner in which the sheath is formed ; and we observe, too, that this is very indistinct behind the lower fourth of the muscle. Ramifying in the substance of the muscle there is a large artery, called the epigastric, a branch of the external iliac; and also the continuation of the internal mammary, which descends from the chest. 6. Nerves of the abdominal wall.—Respecting these nerves, it is sufficient to mention that they are the continuations of the six lower intercostal nerves, and of the first lumbar. They have all the same general course and distribution. We trace them running forwards between the internal oblique and transversalis towards the rectus. They furnish branches to the several muscles, and each gives ofT its lateral and anterior cutaneous branch (see § 4). Many of them are accompanied by small arteries. Action of the abdominal muscles. — In consequence of their stratified arrangement, and the dififerent direction of their fibres, the abdominal muscles are admirably adapted to answer many im- portant purposes:—1. They are the principal muscles of expira- tion ; 2, by compressing the viscera in conjunction with the diaphragm, they are the chief agents in the expulsion of the fseces, the urine, and also in vomiting, sneezing, laughing, coughing, and so forth; 3, they act, each in their own way, as movers of the trunk: e. g. the right external oblique, co-operating with the left internal oblique, can draw the trunk towards the left side, and vice versa. The rectus, too, co-operates in raising the body from the horizontal position, as any one may ascertain by laying the hand on the abdomen while rising from the ground.