LIGAMENTS OF THE SPINE. soo the transverse processes of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebrae, ascends nearly perpendicularly, and is inserted into the basilar process of the occipital bone, in front of the foramen magnum. 269. Rectus capitis anticus minor.—This muscle arises from the transverse process of the first cervical vertebra, and is inserted into the basilar process of the occipital bone, nearer to the foramen magnum than the preceding muscles. The action of the recti muscles is to bend the head forwards. DISSECTION OP THE LIGAMENTS OF THE SPINE. 270. The several vertebrae are connected by their interarticular fibro-cartilages, by ligaments in front of and behind their bodies,, and by ligaments which extend between their arches, their spines, and their transverse processes. There are also capsular ligaments connecting their articular processes. 271. Anterior common ligament.—This consists of a strong band of longitudinal fibres which extends over the front of the bodies of the vertebras from the axis to the sacrum. It should be observed that the fibres are not all of equal length. The more superficial extend from a given vertebra to the fifth or sixth below it; those a little deeper pass from a given vertebra to the second or third below it; while the deepest of all proceed from vertebra to vertebra. The ligament becomes broader and stronger in pro- portion to the size of the vertebrae. By making transverse inci- sions through it in different situations, we observe thaf its fibres are more firmly adherent to the intervertebral cartilages, and to the borders of the vertebrae, than to the middle of the bones. 272. Inter-spinous ligaments.—These are thin bands of liga- mentous fibres, which fill up the intervals between the spines of the dorsal and lumbar vertebrae. They are the most marked in the lumbar region. Those fibres which connect the apices of the spines, being stronger than the rest, are described by some anato- mists as separate ligaments, under the name of supraspinous. 273. Ligaments between the arches of the vertebm.—These are