DISSECTION OF THE EYE. 529 examined with the microscope, it is found to be most minutely and elaborately organised. The delicate fibres of the optic nerve spread out and ramify through a stratum of nerve-cells : how they ultimately terminate, whether by loops or in free extremities, is still doubtful. The ramifications of the arteria centralis retinae form a close network of blood-vessels throughout the nervous sub- stance, for its nutrition. After a short maceration in water, the nervous subttance can be brushed off with a delicate camel's-hair pencil, and then, in an injected eye, the web formed by the vessels can be distinctly seen. The larger branches, however, are visible enough even without injection ; and we observe that one of them runs quite round the free margin of the retina. But the part of the retina most remarkable for the singularity of its organisation is the structure which forms its external layer. It is generally termed the " membrana Jacobi ;"* and it cer- tainly may be raised as an entire membrane by carefully in- jecting air beneath it while the eye is under water. When carefully examined with the high powers of a microscope, it is found to be composed of minute cylindrical, transparent, and highly refractive rods, arranged like the pile of velvet at right angles to the surface of the retina. Their outer extremities are imbedded, to a greater or less depth, in the dark pigment of the choroid ; so that, when viewed from without, the rods have the appearance of a mosaic pavement, f Ciliary body and processes.—These are best seen when the globe has been divided by a vertical section into an anterior and a posterior half, the vitreous humour being left undisturbed. We then see a beautiful black ring, about three lines broad, surrounding the lens : it may be regarded as a continuation of the choroid. The posterior boundary of this ring is smooth and flat, and defined by a dentated line. The anterior part presents a number of longi- tudinal plaits or folds, from sixty to seventy in number, alter- * After its discoverer, Dr. Jacob, of Dublin, who described it in the Philo- sophical Transactions, 1819. f See Hannrver, Recherches Microscop. sur le Systeme Nerveux, 1844. CC