THE DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. i. The abdomen is divided into regions, in order that the situa- tion of the organs contained in it may be more easily described. These regions being purely arbitrary, we cannot wonder that anatomists differ as to their number and boundaries. For all practical purposes, the following division, handed down from the ancient Greek authors, is sufficiently convenient. An imagi- nary horizontal line is drawn across the abdomen on a level with the cartilage of the 9th rib ; another on a level with the anterior spine of the ilium. That part of the cavity situated above the upper line is called the epigastric region; that below the lower one, the hypogastric; while the space included between the lines is termed the mesogastric or umbilical. These again are sub- divided thus:—the sides of the epigastric region, beneath the costal cartilages, are termed respectively the right and left hypo- chondria, and the depression in front, just below the ensiform cartilage, is called the scrobiculus cordis, or the pit of the stomach. The sides of the umbilical region are named the ilia or flanks, and the back part, the loins. The sides of the hypo- gastric region are familiarly known as the groins, while the middle of it is called the pubes. An incision should be made from the sternum to the pubes, another from the anterior spine of the ilium to the umbilicus, and a third from the umbilicus obliquely outwards, over the cartilages of the ninth and tenth ribs, halfway up to the axilla. The skin should then be dissected from the subjacent adipose and cellular tissue, commonly called the superficial fascia. 2. Superficial fascia.—The subcutaneous tissue of the abdo- men presents the same general characters as that of other parts, and varies in thickness according to the condition of the individual. When carefully examined, more especially at the lower part of the belly, we find that it admits of separation into two layers, and that the subcutaneous vessels and nerves ramify between them. Re- specting the more superficial of these layers, there is nothing to be Q