232 DISSECTION OF THE PHARYNX. with the bronchial tubes. It is stated by a German anatomist* that they may be traced to the surface of the lung and the pleura ; but we have not hitherto succeeded in following them so far. Absorbents,—The absorbents of the lung form a network upon its surface and in the interlobular spaces. They all pass through the bronchial glands. Of these, the larger are situated about the bronchi near the root of the lung; a few small ones are contained within the substance of the lung. DISSECTION OF THE PHARYNX. The most convenient mode of obtaining a view of the pharynx is to make a transverse incision through the trachea, oesophagus, and the great vessels on either side of the neck, and then to draw these parts forwards, so as to separate them from the bodies of the cervical vertebrae, to which they are but loosely connected by cellular tissue. The head should be removed at the first vertebra; and thus the pharynx and larynx will be left attached to the basis of the skull. A moderate quantity of horse-hair or tow may be introduced through the mouth and the oesophagus in order to distend the posterior wall of the pharynx. The head should then be placed on the face, and maintained in this position by hooks, so that we may commence the dissection of the parts from their pos- terior aspect. 144. The term Pharynx is applied to a dilated portion of the ali- mentary canal, which receives the food after it has undergone masti- cation in the mouth; and, by the movement of deglutition, propels it onwards into the oesophagus. It also serves as a medium through which atmospheric air passes into the trachea. It forms a sort of elongated muscular bag, which is firmly attached to the basilar process of the occipital bone, and from thence extends per- pendicularly to the level of the lower border of the cricoid car- tilage, where it terminates in the oesophagus. The bag is con- nected behind to the bodies of the cervical vertebrae by an abundance * Remak, Med. Zeit. der Verein. f. Heilk. in Preussen. 1840.