VELUM INTERPOSITUM. CHOROID TLEXUS. 497 " taenia hippocampi" is applied; besides which,, it is sometimes called the posterior crus of the fornix.* Velum interposition and choroid plexus,—Supposing the fornix removed, the velum interpositum, which supports it, is fully ex- posed. This is nothing more than a portion of the pia mater of the brain which penetrates into the ventricles through the fissure beneath the posterior border of the corpus callosum and fornix, f The shape of this vascular veil is like that of the fornix itself, and its borders are rolled up so as to form the red fringe called the " choroid plexus." These plexuses consist almost entirely of the tortuous ramifications of minute arteries.J In front they commu- nicate uninterruptedly with each other across the middle of the brain, through the foramen of Monro; and behind they descend with the middle horns of the lateral ventricles, and become continuous with the pia mater at the base of the brain, between the middle lobe of the cerebrum and the crus cerebri. Down the centre of the veil we observe the two large veins called " vence Galeni" which return the blood from the ventricles into the straight sinus. The velum interpositum, with the choroid plexus, must now be carefully reflected in order to expose the following parts :—1. There is a full view of the thalamus opticus. 2. Between the thalami optici there is a deep vertical fissure, precisely in the middle line: this is the third ventricle of the brain. 3. Behind the fissure is the pineal gland, a very vascular body, about the size of a pea. From the gland we trace forwards two slender white cords, called its peduncles,—one along the inner side of each optic thalamus. # The fornix and septum lucidum are absent in fish ; they are merely rudimentary in reptiles and birds : but all mammalia have them in greater or less perfection, according to the degree of development of the cerebral hemi- spheres. f The great fissure beneath the fornix, where the pia mater enters the ventricles, is called the transverse fissure of the cerebrum. It extends down- wards on each side to the base of the brain. % In preparations where the choroid plexus is well injected, we see that they are covered with beautiful vascular villi. The villi themselves are covered with epithelium,