PARTS CONCERNED IN FEMORAL HERNIA. 423 The best view of Gimbemat's ligament is obtained from within the abdomen. All that is necessary is to remove the peritoneum. We then observe that it is triangular, with the apex at the pubes; and that the base, directed outwards, is rather curved than other- wise, and feels sharp and wiry. Its breadth is, generally speaking, from three-quarters of an inch to one inch; but it varies in different subjects, and is always broader in the male than in the female: this is one among many reasons why femoral hernia is less frequent in the male. It is necessary to be aware that, in reference to the axis of the body, the plane of the ligament is very nearly hori- zontal, and, therefore, that it recedes from the surface. 9. Arrangement of the parts which pass under the arch.—The crural arch transmits from the abdomen into the thigh (proceeding in order from the outer side)—1, the iliacus and psoas muscles, with the anterior crural nerve between them ; 2, the femoral artery and vein.* These muscles and vessels completely fill up all that part of the arch which belongs to them. Still there is, on the inner side of the vein, a comparatively vacant space left for the passage of the absorbents : this is called the femoral aperture or ring. The muscles are separated from the vessels by a very strong vertical fibrous partition passing from the arch to the bone, which is, in point of fact, nothing more than a continuation of the sheath of the psoas. The artery, too, is separated from the vein by another similar, although a much weaker partition, and there is a third close to the inner side of the vein.f These three partitions in the arch may be compared to so many bars, which keep all the parts in their right place, and besides answer the important purpose of confining the arch down to the bone, and preventing its being up- lifted by any protrusion between it and the muscles and vessels. This, coupled with the close attachment of the iliac fascia to the crural arch, explains why a femoral hernia cannot take place in any other situation than on the inner side of the femoral vein. % * We purposely omit in the text, as unimportant, the cutaneous branches of the lumbar plexus of nerves. f This description is taken from an horizontal section of the parts. % If the bars, from any cause, yield, or become slack, then a rupture may descend in front of the vessels, or even (though this i= extremely rare) on the outer side of the artery.