THE UPPER ARM. on either side the tendon of the deltoid, from the whole of the front surface of the bone below this point, and from the intermus- cular septa. The muscle, necessarily becoming thicker and broader as it descends, covers the inner two-thirds of the front surface of the capsule of the elbow-joint, and terminates in a tendon, which appears on its anterior surface, and is inserted in a pointed manner into a rough surface below the coronoid process of the ulna. Some of its deep muscular fibres are intimately connected with the capsule of the elbow-joint. The tendon of the muscle is strongest on its external side, and gives origin to the fascia on the outer side of the forearm. Its action is to bend the forearm. 32. The course and relations of the brachial vessels and nerves should now be examined. The brachial artery, a continuation of the axillary, takes its name at the lower border of the teres major muscle. It passes down the inner side of the arm, along the inner border of the coraco- brachialis and biceps muscles, to a triangular space in front of the elbow, where it divides into the radial and ulnar arteries. Tbus its direction corresponds with a line drawn from the anterior part of the axilla to the central point between the con- dyles of the humerus. In the upper part of its course it is supported by the triceps muscle, (from which it is separated by the musculo-spiral nerve and superior profunda artery) : in the middle of the arm, it lies on the tendon of the coraco-brachialis, close to the bone; and in the lower part of its course it rests on the brachialis anticus. The artery is accompanied by two veins, called the vena comites, and the great median nerve, all of which are invested in a common sheath of fascia. Tbe median nerve generally crosses very obliquely in front of the artery, lying near the axilla on the outer side, and near the elbow on the inner side of the vessel. The ulnar nerve, situated internally, diverges from the artery as it descends, and is separated from it below by the internal inter- muscular septum. Superficial to the artery, we find the internal