:33 FRONT OF THE FORE-ARM. c 2 meut in front of it, and divides into two principal branches, which supply the integuments on the radial border of the fore-arm. The filaments of this nerve may be traced, in company with the superficial radial veins, down to the wrist. It should be observed, that a branch of the nerve lies for some distance superficial to the radial artery in the lower third of the fore-arm : this branch per- forates the fascia near the wrist, accompanies the artery beneath the extensor tendons of the thumb, and is finally distributed to the carpal joint. Near the wrist, the external cutaneous generally communicates with the radial nerve, and sometimes it sends a filament into the palm of the hand and another over the ball of the thumb. b. The external cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral nerve divides into filaments, which run along the outer and back part of the fore-arm as low as the wrist, communicating with filaments of the external cutaneous nerve. c. The internal cutaneous nerve divides near the bend of the elbow into an anterior and a posterior branch, both of which descend along the ulnar border of the fore-arm to the wrist, in company with the superficial ulnar veins. The anterior branch, the larger of the two, passes sometimes in front of, but more frequently behind the median basilic vein, and then gives off numerous cutaneous fila- ments as far as the wrist, some of which join with a cutaneous branch of the ulnar nerve. The posterior branch runs over the in- ternal condyle of the humerus, towards the back of the fore-arm, as low as the wrist. This branch sometimes sends a recurrent filament between the internal condyle and the olecranon, to join with the lesser internal cutaneous. 47. Remove the subcutaneous tissue, in order to see the fascia which envelopes the muscles of the fore-arm. It is much stronger than that of the upper arm, more dense and compact on the poste- rior than on the anterior surface of the fore-arm, and its strength on both surfaces increases as it approaches the wrist, in order that the numerous tendons in this situation may be more effectually maintained in their proper position. The fascia is attached to the two condyles of the humerus, and