MUSCLES OP THE SHOULDER. 74 the capsule of the joint. Action.—It assists the deltoid in raising the arm. 123. The subscapularis muscle is covered hy a thin layer of fascia, which is attached to the borders of the scapula. It is tri- angular, and occupies the subscapular fossa. It arises from the posterior three-fourths of the fossa, from three or four tendinous septa attached to the oblique ridges on its surface, and from the axillary border of the bone. The bundles of the muscle converge towards the neck of the scapula, where they terminate upon three or four tendons, which are concealed amongst the muscular fibres, and are inserted into the lesser tuberosity of the humerus. Its broad insertion is closely connected with the capsule of the shoulder- joint, which it completely protects upon its inner side. Some of the fibres of the thick inferior border of the muscle are inserted fleshy into the neck of the humerus below the tuberosity. Its action is to rotate the humerus inwards. The nerves (two or three in number) which supply the subsca- pularis are derived from the great cord which gives off the circum- flex and musculo-spiral nerves. The coracoid process, with the coraco-brachialis and short head of the biceps, form a kind of arch, under which the tendon of the subscapularis plays. There are several bursce about the tendon. There is one of considerable size on the upper surface of the tendon, to facilitate its motion beneath the coracoid process and the coraco-brachialis: this sometimes communicates with the large bursa under the delloid. Another is situated between the tendon and the root of the coracoid process. A third is situated between the tendon and the capsule of the joint, and almost invariably com- municates with it. In some subjects the last two bursa? are united into one. Reflect the muscles from the surfaces of the scapula, in order to trace the arteries which ramify upon the bone. Observe that a few fibres from each are lost upon the capsular ligament of the shoulder- joint. These fibres prevent the capsule from folding inwards during the movements of the head of the humerus upon the glenoid cavity.