427 PARTS CONCERNED IN FEMORAL HERNIA. Since the fascia propria is in some instances absent, and in others exceedingly thin, we ought, in operating, to be careful not to make the first incision too deep; for there may be nothing more between the skin and the sac but the subcutaneous tissue.* The seat of stricture is at the femoral ring, and the position of the neighbouring blood-vessels indicates that the proper direction in which to divide the stricture is, either directly inwards, through Gimbernat's ligament, as recommended by Mr. Lawrence, or up- wards through Hey?s ligament, as recommended by Sir A. Cooper. There is no risk of wounding an artery, supposing the vessels to take their ordinary course. But it occasionally happens (see Dissec- tion of the Abdomen, § 70 d) that the obturator artery runs round the inner side of the femoral ring, so that in such a case the neck of the sac would be encircled by a large blood-vessel.f From the examination of two hundred bodies, we conclude that the chances are about seventy to one against this unfavourable distribution. But the possibility of it has given rise to this rule in practice,—not to cut deeply in any one place through the stricture, but rather to notch it in several. By this proceeding we are much less likely to wound the aberrant artery, because it does not run at the base of Gimbernat's ligament, but about a line and a half from the margin of it. Such is a brief outline of the anatomy of the parts concerned in a femoral hernia. The normal anatomy in each case being nearly the same, one might suppose that all operations for the relief of this kind of hernia would be straightforward and pretty much alike ; but this is very far from being the case ; indeed, most experienced surgeons will agree that they never take the knife in hand without the expectation of meeting some peculiarity. * In some cases of femoral hernia the fascia propria so much resembles the hernial sac, that it is not easy to distinguish between them. Generally speaking they are separated by a small quantity of fat. f The museum of St. Bartholomew's Hospital contains two examples of double femoral hernia in the male, with the obturator arising on each side from the epigastric. In three out of the four hernias the obturator runs on the inner side of the mouth of the sac. See Prep. 55, 69, Series 17.