21 THE UPPER ARM. considered as a continuation of the fascia from the trunk and the axilla; it is composed of circular fibres, intersected by others which have a vertical direction. This membrane varies in density: thus it is thin over the biceps muscle, stronger on the inner side of the arm, for the purpose of protecting the brachial vessels and nerves, and strongest over the triceps muscle. At the upper part of the arm the fascia is connected with the coracoid process and coraco- clavicular ligament: it is strengthened as it descends by an ex- pansion from the tendons of the pectoralis major and latissimus dorsi: posteriorly it is firmly attached to the spine of the scapula and to its axillary border. The fascia surrounds the brachial vessels with a sheath, and sends off prolongations to separate the muscles from each other. Of these processes the most marked are those called the external and internal intermuscular septa, which divide the muscles on the anterior from that on the posterior sur- face of the upper arm. These septa are attached to the projecting ridges on either side of the humerus and to the condyles. The internal septum, the most prominent of the two, begins at the inser- tion of the coraco-brachialis, and separates the triceps extensor from the brachialis anticus muscles. The external septum commences from the insertion of the deltoid, and separates the brachialis anticus, the supinator longus, and the extensor carpi radialis longior in front, from the triceps behind. At the lower part of the upper arm the fascia is remarkably strong, especially where it covers the brachialis anticus and the brachial vessels, and is continued over the muscles on the inner side of the forearm. At the back of the elbow, the fascia is attached to the tendon of the triceps and the olecranon. The fascia must now be removed from the surface of the muscles, to which it is united by a very loose cellular tissue, which allows them to move freely beneath it. The nerves which pass through the fascia should be preserved. The three muscles on the front of the arm should next be examined : these are, the biceps in front, above and on its inner side the coraco-brachialis, and beneath it the brachialis anticus. 29. The biceps is the long delicate-looking muscle which forms