55 PALM OF THE HAND. or other of them is often deficient. The ligamenta annularia are situated immediately in front of the joints, and may be consi- dered as thin continuations of the ligamenta vaginalia. They con- sist of delicate fibres, which are attached on either side of the joints to the glenoid ligaments, and pass transversely over the tendons. They are often indistinct. Open one of the sheaths, and it will be seen that in front of the articulations the tendons glide over a smooth fibro-cartilaginous structure, called the glenoid ligament. In some cases, as, for in- stance, at the last joint of the thumb, this ligament contains a small sesamoid bone. 81. The interior of the sheath, as well as the surface of the ten- dons, is lined by a delicate synovial membrane, of the extent of which it is important to have a correct knowledge. Witii a probe, or other blunt instrument, we may easily ascertain that the synovial membrane is reflected from the sheath upon the tendons, a little above the metacarpal joints of the fingers; that is, nearly in a line with the transverse fold in the skin observed in the lower third of the palm. Towards the distal end of the finger, the synovial sheath commonly stops short of the last joint, so that it is not injured in amputation of the ungual phalanx. 82. With regard to the tendons themselves, we observe that the superficial flexor, near the root of the finger, presents on its under surface a slight groove which receives the corresponding deep flexor tendon; about the middle of the first phalanx it splits into two portions, through which the deep flexor passes. The two portions reunite below the deep tendon so as completely to embrace it, and then di- vide a second time into two slips, which interlace with each other and are inserted into the outer and inner sides of the second pha- lanx. In some instances, the superficial flexor tendon has an at- tachment to the sides of the first phalanx, so that, if the finger were amputated at the second joint, the power of bending the first might, to a certain extent, be retained. The deep flexor tendon, having passed through the opening of the superficial flexor, is attached to the whole breadth of the base of the last phalanx. By raising the tendons from the sheath, and separating them