349 CONTENTS OE THE MALE PELVIS. appropriate situations in order to increase the leverage of the muscles. The sacrum, impacted as it is between the ilia, repre- sents the key-stone of the arch, and is capable of supporting not only the trunk, but great burdens besides. The sides or pillars are represented by the ilia ; these transmit the weight to the heads of the thigh bones, and are thickest and strongest just in that line, i. e, the brim of the pelvis, along which the weight is transmitted. Moreover, to effect the more direct transmission of the weight, the plane of the arch is remarkably oblique. This obliquity of the pelvis, its hollow expanded sides, its great width, the position and strength of the tuberosities of the ischia, are so many proofs that man is adapted to the erect posture. The general conformation of the pelvis in the female is some- what modified, so as to be better adapted to utero-gestation and parturition. Its breadth and capacity are greater than in the male, though its depth is less. The alse of the iliac bones are more ex- panded. The projection of the sacrum is less perceptible, and consequently the brim is more circular. Above all, the span of the pubic arch is wider. The bones, too, are thinner, and the muscular impressions less strongly marked. The cavity of the pelvis being curved, the axis, or a central line drawn through it, must be curved in proportion. For all practical purposes, it is sufficient to remember that the axis of the cavity corresponds with the curve of the sacrum. Therefore, the axis of the brim—that is, a line drawn at right angles to its plane—would coincide with a line drawn from the umbilicus to the lower part of the sacrum ; the axis of the outlet looks downwards and forwards, and forms, with that of the brim, about a right angle,* 41. Contents of the male pelvis.—The male pelvis contains the last part of the intestinal canal (misnamed the rectum), the bladder * In a well-formed female, the base of the sacrum is about four inches higher than the upper part of the symphysis pubis; and the point of the coccyx is rather more than half an inch higher than the lower part of the symphysis. The obliquity of the pelvis is greatest in early life. In the foetus, and in young children, its capacity is small; and the viscera, which subsequently belong to it, are situated in the abdomen.