324 COURSE OF THE INTESTINES. c. Stomach.—The more capacious part of the stomach is situated under the shelter of the left hypochondrium, and, when distended, occupies nearly the whole of it; but the narrow or pyloric end extends rather obliquely across the epigastrium, more or less into the right hypochondrium, where it is overlapped by the liver. The position of the great end of the stomach exp'aiits the peculiar sonorousness which percussion frequently elicits over the left hypo- chondrium, and even for some distance up the side of the chest; so that, when the stomach is large and flatulent, it is often very difficult to ascertain whether the mixture of air and liquid which produces the sound be contained in the abdomen or the chest. The pressure of the over-distended stomach upon the heart accounts for the irregular action of this organ observable in some cases of in- digestion . d. Spleen.—The stomach naturally leads us to the spleen. This organ is situated deep in the left hypochondrium, between the sto- mach and the ninth, tenth, and eleventh ribs. Its outer surface is free and convex, so as to correspond with the diaphragm and the ribs; its inner surface, where its great vessels enter it, is concave and connected to the great end of the stomach by a peritoneal fold called the gastro-splenic omentum. Generally, too, the spleen is connected by another small peritoneal fold to the diaphragm.* 21. General outline of the course of the intestines.—We should now trace the course of the alimentary canal from the stomach to the anus, so far as this can be done without injury to its connec- tions. A small part of it only is immoveably fixed. Though all the rest of the canal can be moved about with facility, yet it is so connected by folds of peritoneum to the back of the abdomen that it cannot become entangled. a. The first part of the canal, termed the intestinum duodenum, because it is about twelve inches long, takes a very curious course. Although the whole of this part cannot at present be fairly exposed, yet we trust the learner will be able to follow our description of it. Commencing, then, at the pylorus, the duodenum ascends rather # Every now and then we find in the gastro-splenic omentum one or more little spleens in addition to the large one.