ANATOMY OF THE LIVEK. 406 in large quantities, they constitute what is called a fatty liver. The office of the cells is to separate the bile from the blood, in some way which we do not understand, and when filled with bile, they burst, or otherwise discharge themselves into the bile ducts. Such, in outline, is the minute anatomy of the liver. If it be rightly understood, we can have no difficulty in determining, in a section of the organ, whether the portal or the hepatic venous system be congested.* 99. Gall bladder.—The gall bladder is confined by the peri- toneum in a slight depression on the under surface of the right lobe of the liver. (See § 19 b.) We observe that it is shaped like a pear. Its size varies a little in different subjects; generally speak- ing, it is about four inches long, and will hold about 1J oz. of fluid. Its narrow end, or neck, makes a bend downwards, and terminates in a duct, called the cystic, which, after a course of about one inch, joins the hepatic. The common duct, formed by their union, is about three or four inches long, and we remember that it opens into the back of the descending part of the duodenum, after run- ning very obliquely through the coats of the bowel. Exclusive of its partial peritoneal covering, the gall-bladder has only two coats. The outer one, called the cellular, consists of dense shining fibres, interlacing in all directions :f the other is the mucous coat. The mucous coat is generally tinged yellow by the bile. The chief peculiarity about it is that it is gathered into a number of ridges which make it like a honeycomb on a small scale. It is covered by a columnar epithelium, which secretes an abundance of viscid mucous. Furthermore, we have to observe that at the bend of the neck of the gall-bladder, both its coats project very much into the interior, making the opening considerably narrower than it appears to be outside. Lastly, in the cystic duct, the mucous membrane presents a series of folds, so arranged, one after the * For further information on the subject, see the original observations of Kiernan in the Philosoph. Trans, for 1833. f In some animals, e.g., the horse and the cow, the gall-bladder possesses a few non-striped muscular fibres.