ABDOMINAL MUSCLES. 309 4. Cutaneous nerves.—The skin of the abdomen is supplied with nerves after the same plan as that of the chest; namely, by lateral and anterior branches divided from the intercostal nerves. a. The lateral cutaneous nerves come out between the digita- tions of the external oblique muscle, in company with small arteries, and then divide into anterior and posterior branches. It should be observed, however, that the lateral branch of the twelfth dorsal nerve is larger than the others, and that it passes over the crest of the ilium for the supply of the skin of the buttock. The corresponding branch of the first lumbar nerve has a similar distribution; and its size is generally in inverse proportion to that of the twelfth dorsal. b. The anterior cutaneous nerves are seen coming with their little arteries through the sheath of the rectus muscle. They are not only much smaller than the lateral nerves, but their number and place of exit is less regular. That which comes through the external abdominal ring, as well as another which comes through the wall of the abdomen just above it, is derived from the first lumbar nerve. These, however, are but repetitions of the others, and are intended for the supply of the skin of the groin and scrotum in the male, and the labium pudendi in the female .f 5. Muscles of the abdominal wall.—Our next object should be to examine the abdominal muscles. There are three of them, on either side, arranged in strata, and severally named after the direction of their fibres,—the external oblique, the internal oblique, and the transversalis. They all terminate in front in strong aponeuroses, which are so arranged as to form a sheath for a broad perpendicular muscle called the rectus. Each of these muscles we will now successively describe. a. The external oblique arises from the eight or nine lower ribs, by as many pointed bundles, termed its " digitations." The upper five of these fit in with similar bundles of the serratus magnus, and are obvious even during life; the three lower ones correspond f These two cutaneous nerves are sometimes called, respectively, the " ilio-hypogastric " and " ilio-inguinal."