LIGAMENTS CONNECTING THE TIBIA AND THE FIBULA. 475 excavations in the middle line of the head of the tibia; those of the inner cartilage being more remote from the centre. Besides this, they are mutually connected in a front by a thin transverse liga- ment ; and their circumference is also connected to the head of the tibia by fibrous tissue, yet not so closely as to restrict their necessary range of motion.* Lastly, the external cartilage is more or less connected with the crucial ligaments. Action of the ligaments.—In the extended position all the liga- ments are completely on the stretch; rotation, however slight, is impossible, and the joint forms part of a firm unyielding column for the support of the body. A cursory glance at the respective attachments of the ligaments shows that this cannot be otherwise, because their centre of motion is placed so near to the back part of the condyles of the femur. But in the bent position the lateral ligaments are relaxed, and permit a rotatory movement of the tibia to the extent of 40°. This movement is chiefly in an outward direction (for it is un- natural to turn the leg inwards), and it is effected, not by a rota- tion of the tibia on its own axis, but by a rotation of the outer head of the tibia round the inner. A little examination soon shows that the tension of the ligaments is adapted accordingly; for those attached to the inner condyle of the femur are comparatively tight, whereas those of the external are quite lax.f 104. Ligaments connecting the tibia and the fibula. —There is a distinct joint between the upper ends of the tibia and * Of the two cartilages the external has the greater freedom of motion, because in rotation of the knee the outer side of the tibia moves more than the inner. Consequently, it is not in any way connected to the lateral ligament: so far from this, it is separated from it by the tendon of the popliteus, of which the play is facilitated by a bursa communicating freely with the joint. For this reason the external cartilage is more liable to dis- location. f If both crucial ligaments only be divided, the joint in the extended state is tolerably firm : not so in the bent state. But the reverse holds good if the lateral ligaments only be divided: in this case the bones in the bent state are tightly connected ; but, when extended, the tibia rolls outwards, and untwists the crucial ligaments. Z