ARCH OF THE AORTA. 197 downwards over the third completes the arch. The direction of this arch is therefore from the sternum to the spine, and rather oblique from the right towards the left side. Simply for the con- venience of description, it is usual to divide it into an ascending, a transverse, and a descending portion. a. Ascending portion.—In order to see this portion of the aorta it is necessary to open the pericardium. We shall then observe that the artery is covered all round by the smooth and polished serous layer of the pericardium, excepting in the situation where it is in contact with the pulmonary artery. In respect to its rela- tions we have to notice that its commencement is covered by the pulmonary artery, and more or less overlapped by the appendix of the right auricle. On its right side, but on a posterior plane, descends the superior vena cava; on its left is the division of the pulmonary artery; and immediately behind it is the right branch of this artery. b. Transverse portion.—This portion of the aorta, proceeding backwards to the spine, crosses in front of the trachea a little above its bifurcation. It is separated from the sternum by the cellular tissue of the anterior mediastinum, by the remains of the thymus gland, and more or less in different cases by the left lung. Near its upper convex surface runs the left vena innominata; near its lower concave surface there is the left bronchus, and the bifurca- tion of the pulmonary artery, with the left branch of which it is connected by the remains of the ductus arteriosus. The arch is crossed in this situation by the left phrenic and the left pneumo-gastric nerves ; and the recurrent branch of the latter ascends behind it to the larynx. c. Descending portion.—This part of the arch lies upon the left side of the body of the third dorsal vertebra. On its right side is the oesophagus and the thoracic duct; its left is covered by the mediastinal layer of the pleura. Within the arch of the aorta are contained the following parts:— the left auricle, the left bronchus, the right pulmonary artery, the left recurrent nerve, the remains of the ductus arteriosus, and a number of absorbent glands. d. Sinus aorta.—The arch of the aorta presents partial dilata-