MUSCLES OF THE FACE. lower lip and remove the mucous membrane on either side of the frenum. It arises from a depression in front of the symphysis of the jaw immediately below the incisor teeth. The fibres descend and expand into the skin of the chin. 57. Zygomatici.—These two narrow muscles extend from the zygoma to the angle of the mouth. The zygomaticus major arises from the lower part of the outer surface of the malar bone near the zygomatic suture. The fibres descend obliquely towards the angle of the mouth, where they intermingle with the inferior fibres of the orbicularis oris and the depressor anguli oris. The zygomaticus minor arises from the outer surface of the malar bone anterior to the major, descends obliquely forwards, and joins the outer border of the levator labii superioris, or ,the orbicularis oris. It is often absent. The action of these muscles is seen in laughing. Previous to the examin ation of the orbicularis palpebrarum it is advisable to notice the tendo oculi, or internal palpebral ligament. To make the tendon more apparent the tarsal cartilages should be drawn outwards. 58. Tendo oculi (internal palpebral ligament).—This little tendon is about two lines in length, and is readily felt beneath the skin at the inner angle of the eye. It is attached to the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone in front of the lacrymal groove, passes horizontally outwards, and divides into two portions, one of which is connected with the upper, the other with the lower tarsal cartilage. The tendon crosses the lacrymal sac a little above the centre, and gives off a fascia which covers the sac and is attached to the margins of the groove which contains it. To obtain a view of this fascia we must reflect that portion of the orbicularis palpebrarum which covers the sac. In the operation of puncturing the lacrymal sac the knife is introduced immediately below the tendon, in a direction downwards, outwards, and a little backwards. There is nothing to divide but the skin, a few fibres of the orbicularis palpebrarum, and the fibrous I expansion derived from the tendo oculi. The angular artery and I vein will not be endangered, being situated on the inner side of j the incision. 59. Orbicularis oculi,—This muscle consists of a broad sub- cutaneous stratum of muscular fibres which surrounds the eyelids