5 FRONT Otf THE CHEST. should be taken not to divide a small artery and nerve which enter its under surface. The artery comes from the thoracic axis, and the nerve is a thoracic branch of the brachial plexus. Beneath the reflected portion of the muscle will be observed a tolerably compact fascia, which is attached to the clavicle, separates the two pectoral muscles, and is continuous below with the fascia of the axilla. Remove this fascia, together with some subjacent fat and cellular tissue, and part of the pectoralis minor will be exposed. Between the upper border of this muscle and the clavicle there exists an important space, in which the following objects will be observed:— a. A strong ligamentous expansion, called the costo-coracoid ligament, which extends from the cartilage of the first rib to the clavicle. 4*^j^***^ b. The axillary vein, artery, and plexus of nerves. c. The subclavius muscle enclosed in its fibrous sheath. d. A short arterial trunk, called the thoracic axis, which ap- pears above the pectoralis minor, and divides into several branches, which take different directions. e. The termination of the cephalic vein in the axillary, f. Two or three nerves, called the anterior thoracic, which descend from the axillary plexus beneath the clavicle, cross in front of the axillary vessels, and subdivide into numerous filaments to supply the pectoral muscles. These several objects must be carefully dissected and examined in detail. 6. The costo-coracoid ligament or fascia varies in density in different individuals. It extends from the cartilage of the first rib to the coracoid process, and between these two points it is attached to the clavicle, and forms a complete investment for the subclavius muscle. In front the ligament presents a crescent-shaped margin which arches over, and protects the axillary vessels and nerves : from this margin a fascia is prolonged, which accompanies the vessels into the axilla, enclosing them in a kind of sheath, especially strong on the inner side of the vein. This fascia must necessarily be divided before the axillary vessels can be exposed. 7. Immediately above the upper border of the pectoralis minor