100 LIGAMENTS OF THE CARPAL BONES. the lower end of the ulna : this mechanism is essential to the prona- tion and supination of the hand. These corresponding surfaces are crusted with a thin layer of cartilage, and are provided with a loose synovial membrane. The joint is strengthened in front and behind by a thin, loose, fibrous capsule, which extends from the an- terior and posterior borders of the sigmoid cavity of the radius, to the anterior and posterior surfaces of the styloid process of the ulna. But the principal uniting medium between the bones is a strong fibro-cartilage. Fibro-cartilage between the radius and ulna.—Saw through the bones of the fore-arm, and separate them by cutting through the interosseous membrane, and opening the synovial membrane of the joint between their lower ends. A good view will thus be ob- tained of the fibro-cartilage which connects them. It is triangular in form, and is placed transversely below the inferior extremity of the ulna, filling up the interval caused by the greater length of the radius. Its base is attached to the inner edge of the lower end of tne radius, and its apex to the root of the styloid process of the ulna. It is thin at the base and the centre, thicker at the apex and the sides. Its upper surface is in contact with the ulna, and covered by the synovial membrane of the radio-ulnar joint; its lower surface forming a part of the wrist-joint, corresponds to the cuneiform bone. Its borders are connected with the anterior and posterior ligaments of the wrist. In some instances there is an aperture in the centre. The synovial membrane of this joint is distinct from that of the wrist, except in the case of a perforation through the fibro-cartilage. One portion extends perpendicularly between the contiguous sur- faces of the radius and ulna, the other horizontally between the head of the ulna and the upper surface of the fibro-cartilage. On account of its great looseness, necessary for the free rotation of the radius, it is often called the membrana sacciformis. 159. Connexion of the carpal bones with each other. —The bones of the carpus are arranged in two rows, an upper and a lower, adapted to each other, so as to form between them a joint, connected by anterior, posterior, internal, and external lateral ligaments.