31 FRONT OF THE FORE-ARM* and the olecranon, where it freely inosculates with the posterior ulnar recurrent artery. The inferior profunda gives branches to the triceps and brachialis anticus muscles, some of which inosculate with the anastomotica magna. The medullary artery of the humerus usually arises from the profunda inferior. It pierces the tendon of the coraco-brachialis, enters the nutritious foramen of the bone, and in the medullary canal divides into ascending and descending branches, which anas- tomose with the other nutrient vessels of the bone derived from the periosteum. 42. The anastomotica magna artery arises from the inner side of the brachial, about one or two inches above the elbow, runs tortuously inwards across the brachialis anticus muscle, and divides into branches, some of which pass in front of, and others behind the internal condyle, anastomosing with the inferior profunda and the anterior ulnar recurrent arteries. Numerous unnamed muscular branches arise from the outer side of the brachial artery; one of these, more constant than the rest, supplies the biceps; another runs transversely beneath the co- raco-brachialis and biceps, over the insertion of the deltoid, supply- ing this muscle and the brachialis anticus. 43. The two veins {yence comites) which accompany the brachial artery are continuations of the deep radial and ulnar veins. The internal is usually the larger, since it generally receives the veins corresponding to the principal branches of the artery. In their course they are connected at intervals by transverse branches either in front of, or behind the artery. Near the subscapularis muscle the vena comes externa generally crosses obliquely over the front of the axillary artery to join the v. c. interna, which then takes the name of the axillary vein. DISSECTION OF THE FRONT OF THE FORE-ARM. 44. Having prolonged the incision down to the wrist, reflect the skin from the front and sides of the fore-arm, and examine the sub- cutaneous nerves and veins.