THE UPPER ARM. 25 cutaneous nerve and the basilic vein, but both lie in some instances on its inner side. It should be particularly observed that the artery is more or less overlapped, in the first part of its course by the coraco-brachialis,—and lower down by the fleshy belly of the biceps ; both of these muscles in their respective situations being the best guides to the vessel. About the middle of the humerus, the artery lies to the extent of nearly two inches on the tendon of the coraco-brachialis, and is so close to the bone that it can here be effectually compressed ; in this situation it is usually crossed very obliquely by the median nerve. At the bend of the elbow the artery is protected by the strong aponeurotic expansion derived from the tendon of the biceps. It enters a triangular space, bounded by two of the muscles of the forearm, namely, by the pronator radii teres internally, and by the supinator radii longus externally. It sinks into the space, with the tendon of the biceps, to its outer side, and the median nerve to its inner side, and all three rest upon the brachialis anticus muscle. Opposite the coronoid process of the ulna it divides into the radial and ulnar arteries. Two veins, of which the internal is usually the larger, lie in close contact with the brachial artery, and communicate at fre- quent intervals by transverse branches, sometimes in front of, sometimes behind the artery. 33. Previous to the examination of the branches of the brachial artery, it is advantageous to trace the trunks of the nerves of the upper arm, which are derived from the brachial plexus, near the tendon of the subscapulars. The median nerve arises from the plexus by two roots, which converge in front of the axillary artery. The external root is derived from a trunk in common with the external cutaneous nerve, the internal root from a trunk in common with the ulnar and internal cutaneous nerve. In its course down the arm, the nerve is situated at first on the outer side of the brachial artery, between it and the coraco-brachialis muscle: about the middle of the arm the nerve crosses obliquely over the vessel, or perhaps beneath it, so that at the bend of the elbow it is found on the inner side of the artery, covered by the semilunar fascia from the biceps. c