BRANCHES OF THE FEMORAL ARTERY. 439 b. The Eternal circumflex runs transversely outwards beneath the sartorius and the rectus, through the divisions of the anterior crural nerve, and then subdivides into three sets of branches,—the ascending, transverse, and descending. The ascending proceed to the outer side of the ilium, beneath the tensor fasciee and the gluteus rnedius, supply these muscles, and inosculate with the terminal branches of the glutseal artery. The transverse are chiefly lost in the vastus externus. The descending, two or more in number, and of considerable size, run down between the rectus and cruraeus, supplying both these muscles, and may be traced as low as the knee, where they inosculate with the articular arteries. The inosculations between the branches of the circumflex arteries on the one hand, and the gluteal and ischiatic on the other, are the main channels through which a collateral circulation is established, when the femoral is tied above the origin of the profunda. c. The perforating branches are so named because they pass through the adductors to supply the hamstring muscles. There are generally three, but they are apt to vary both in number and size, The first passes between the pectineus and adductor brevis, and then through the tendon of the adductor magnus. The second* passes through the tendons of the adductor brevis and magnus. The third through the tendons of the adductor longus and magnus. All are eventually lost in the flexors of the leg,— namely, the biceps, semi-ten dinosus, and semi-membranosus. After giving off the preceding branches, the continuation of the profunda, much reduced in size, passes through the tendon of the adductor magnus, and is distributed to the short head of the biceps. 29. The anaatomotica magna arises from the femoral artery just before it leaves its tendinous canal. It runs in front of the tendon of the adductor magnus, in company with the long saphe- nous nerve to the inner side of the knee. Here it ramifies exten- # This perforating branch orally furnishes the nutritious artery cf the femur.