STRUCTURE OF THE EYELIDS. 161 lower is nearly of uniform breadth throughout. Both are thicker on the nasal than the temporal side. They are connected to the margin of the orbit, and so maintained in proper position, by the ten do oculi already described, ยง 58 ; and by what is called the broad tarsal ligament: this consists of a layer of fibrous tissue which extends from the circumference of the cartilages (upper and lower) to the margin of the orbit. This, as one might expect, is more dense and resisting on the temporal side, where the eye is more exposed to injury. The ciliary margin is the thickest part of the tarsal cartilages, and presents for our observation a very beautiful mechanism. We notice that their edges are not, through their entire thickness, on the same plane; but that the inner edge of each is sloped or bevelled off as it were ; consequently, when the lids are closed, there is formed with the globe of the eye a triangular channel. This channel is very narrow towards the temples, but gradually increases in size towards the nose, and its use is to conduct the tears to the puncta lacrymalia. The puncta lacrymalia are two pin-hole apertures, easily dis- covered at the inner angle of the upper and lower lid, and they are the orifices of the canals which convey the tears to the lacrymal sac. It is observed that they project slightly backwards, so as not to be obstructed by the closure of the lids. In the introduction of probes for the purpose of opening the contracted puncta, or of examining the lacrymal canals, it is of importance to be aware of the exact direction of these tubes. By passing a bristle into one of them, say the lower, being the larger, we find that it does not run straight from the punctum to the sac, but that it proceeds for a short distance perpendicularly, and then, dilating into a small pouch, makes a sharp bend inwards to the lacrymal sac. When, from any cause, the tears are secreted in greater quantity than usual, and cannot discharge themselves through the ducts, they overflow the channel and trickle down the cheek. e. The eyelashes (cilia) are planted in rows along the edge of the tarsal cartilages. They are largest in the middle of the lids ; those of the upper lid are more numerous and larger than those in