PALM OP THE HAIsD. 50 In the palm,, the artery lies for a short distance upon the muscles of the little finger, before it crosses the flexor tendons, and it is covered by the palmaris brevis muscle and the palmar fascia. 74. Branches of the ulnar artery in the palm.—Immediately below the pisiform bone, the ulnar artery gives off the ulnaris pro- funda, which sinks deep into the palm between the abductor and flexor brevis minimi digiti, to assist in forming the deep palmar arch (see § 98), It is accompanied by a large branch of the ulnar nerve. From the concavity of the superficial palmar arch small branches ascend to the carpus, and there inosculate with the other carpal branches of the radial and ulnar arteries. From the convexity of the arch there cummonly arise four digital arteries, which supply all the fingers, excepting the radial side of the index finger. The first descends obliquely over the muscles on the inner side of the palm, to the ulnar side of the little finger, along which it runs to the apex. The second, third, and fourth descend nearly vertically between the tendons, in a line with the clefts between the fingers, and about half an inch above the clefts each divides into two branches, which proceed along the opposite sides of the palmar aspect of the fingers nearly as far as the extremity of the last phalanges, where they unite to form an arch with the convexity towards the end of the finger; from this arch numerous branches arise and supply the papillae of the skin, endowed with the exquisite sense of touch. In the palm of the hand the digital arteries send small branches to the lumbricales muscles and the sheaths of the flexor tendons, and each is generally joined by a small branch from the corre- sponding palmar interosseous artery, a branch of the deep palmar arch (see § 98). The arteries freely communicate, both on the palmar and dorsal aspect of the fingers, by transverse branches, which supply the oints and the sheaths of the tendons. Near the ungual phalanx, a considerable branch passes to the back of the finger, and forms a network of vessels round the root of the nail. The arteries in the palm are accompanied by small veins, which surrcund them by their frequent communications.