BACK OF THE FOUE-AHM. 89 crossed by filaments of the radial nerve; observe, also, that the tendon of the extensor secundi internodii pollicis passes over it immediately before it sinks into the palm. It supplies the following small branches to the back of the hand. a. Posterior carpal artery.—This branch passes across the carpal bones beneath the extensor tendons. It inosculates with the termination of the anterior interosseous artery (see § 67), and some- times with a corresponding branch from the ulnar artery. The carpal artery commonly sends off small branches, called the dorsal interosseous, which descend along the third and fourth interosseous spaces, beneath the extensor tendons, inosculating near the carpal ends of the metacarpal bones with the perforating branches from the deep palmar arch (see § 98, a). b. The dorsal interosseous artery of trie second space (sometimes called the metacarpal branch of the radial) is generally larger than the others. It descends over the second dorsal interosseous muscle to the cleft between the index and middle fingers, and terminates in small branches, some of which proceed along the back of the fingers, others inosculate with the palmar digital arteries. c. The dorsal arteries of the thumb are two small branches which arise from the radial opposite the head of the first metacarpal bone, and run along the back of the thumb, one on either side. They are often absent. d. The dorsal interosseous artery of the first space (commonly called the dorsal artery of the index finger), a branch of variable size, passes over the first interosseous muscle to the radial side of the back of the index finger. These dorsal interosseous arteries supply the extensor tendons and their sheaths, the interosseous muscles, and the skin on the back of the hand and the first phalanges of the fingers. 149. Remove the tendons from the back and from the palm of hand : observe the deep palmar fascia which covers the interosseous muscles. It is attached to the ridges of the metacarpal bones, forms a distinct sheath for each interosseous muscle, and is continuous inferiorly with the transverse metacarpal ligament. On the back of the hand the interosseous muscles are covered by a thin fascia, which is attached to the adjacent borders of the metacarpal bones.