56 PALM OP THE HAND. from each other, we shall observe what are called the vincula ten- dinuni. They consist of folds or bridles of the synovial membrane, which convey minute blood-vessels and nerves to the tendons. They are generally triangular, with their bases attached longitudinally along the middle of the phalanx. The fold from the first phalanx, after supplying the superficial flexor tendon, passes through the bi- furcation to the deep flexor. Sometimes additional vincula ten- dinum proceed to the tendons from the sides of the phalanges. 83. The tendon of the flexor longus pollicis lies on the radial side of the other flexor tendons beneath the annular ligament. It passes outwards between the two portions of the flexor brevis pollicis and the two sesamoid bones of the thumb, enters its proper fibrous sheath, and is inserted by a broad expansion into the base of the last phalanx. The tendon is provided with a synovial sheath, which is pro- longed from the large bursa of the flexor tendons beneath the annular ligament, and accompanies it down to the last joint of the thumb; consequently the sheath is injured in amputation of the ast phalanx. 84. A large and loose synovial sac, called the bursa of the carpus, is placed b eneath the anterior annular ligament of the wrist, for the purpose of facilitating the play of the tendons through the carpal groove. It lines the under surface of the ligament and the groove formed by the carpal bones, and is thence reflected in loose folds over the tendons, separating them more or less from each other. Above the upper edge of the ligament it is prolonged over both surfaces of the tendons to the extent of an inch, or sometimes two inches, and the cul-de-sac thus formed reaches higher on their deep than on their superficial surface. Below the ligament the bursa extends for a short distance into the palm, and sends off prolongations for each of the flexor tendons, which accompany them nearly down to the middle of the hand. Thus it will be easily understood, that, when the bursa is distended by fluid, there will be a bulging above the annular ligament, and another in the palm, with perceptible fluctuation between them; the unyield- ing ligament causing a kind of constriction in the centre. In some very rare instances the bursa communicates with the