211 THORACIC PORTION OF THE SYMPATHETIC NERVE. But the nerves of the lungs are very small, and cannot be traced far into their substance.* d. (Esophageal plexus.—We have already mentioned that below the root of the lung each pneumogastric nerve is subdivided so as to form a coarse interlacement of nerves round the oesophagus (plexus gulae). From this plexus numerous filaments supply the coats of the tube; but the majority of them are collected into one, two, or more nerves, which pass with the oesophagus through the diaphragm for the supply of the stomach. Having examined the contents of the posterior mediastinum from the right side, we should now do so from the left, in order to com- plete our knowledge of it, Turn, therefore, the left lung out of its cavity and fasten it towards the right side. After removing the pleura, a full view is presented of the descending thoracic aorta, of the pneumogastric nerve crossing the arch and sending the recur- rent branch through it, also of the first part of the course of the left subclavian, covered externally by pleura. Trace the pneumogastric nerve to the oesophagus, and dissect the oesophageal plexus on this side. Lastly, notice the lesser vena azygos, described at § 313, a. 117. Thoracic portion of the sympathetic.—This may be traced on the one side or the other, but it is best to do so on the right. The sympathetic nerve extends nearly longitudinally along either side of the spine over the heads of the ribs. In its substance are observed a series of ganglia, one generally upon the head of each rib; but they may vary in number and size, for it often happens that two ganglia, generally the upper, coalesce, and under such cir- cumstances the one ganglion so formed will of course be larger than the rest. Each ganglion commonly receives two branches from the corre- sponding spinal nerve. The nerves proceeding from the ganglia supply the thoracic and part of the abdominal viscera. They are as follows:— a. Minute nerves from the first and second ganglia to the cardiac plexus. * Upon this subject, see the beautiful plates of Scarpa. L 2