ABDOMINAL AORTA. 342 bodies of the lumbar vertebrae, following pretty nearly the course of these great blood-vessels. Generally speaking, they are on the average small, and only one here and there attracts observation* They transmit the lymphatics from the lower limbs, the abdomina! wall, and the testicle, and all eventually lead to the receptaculum chyli, 01 the beginning of the thoracic duct.* This is usually found on the right of the aorta, close to the second lumbar ver- tebra. 35. Relations of the abdominal aorta.—The aorta enters the abdomen between the crura of the diaphragm, and de- scends nearly perpendicularly in front of the spine as low as the fourth lumbar vertebra, where it divides, rather to the left of the mesial line, into the two common iliac arteries. The point of division cannot be specified with precision, because it is so apt to vary in different subjects, being often lower and sometimes higher than the fourth lumbar vertebra. But for all practical purposes it is sufficient to know that its division takes place about the level of the highest point of the crest of the ilium. The vena cava inferior ascends on the right of the aorta, close to the spine also, in the greater part of its course. As it approaches the diaphragm, how- ever, the vena cava must necessarily pass off a little to the right, in order to go through its appropriate tendinous opening in the diaphragm, and so reach the right side of the heart. The branches of the aorta left for us now to examine arise from it in pairs, namely— a. The phrenic.—These arteries are intended for the supply of the diaphragm, and generally proceed from the aorta as soon as it comes through the pillars. But this particular origin is by no means invariable. The right phrenic passes behind the vena cava, the left behind the oesophagus, and both ramify extensively on the corresponding sides of the muscle. Their first branches, however, are sent to the renal capsules. Their ultimate ramifications ex- tend to the circumference of the chest, and inosculate with the in- ternal mammary and intercostal arteries. The phrenic veins are the last which the inferor vena cava receives. See the Dissection of the Thorax, § 114.