354 DISSECTION OF THE MALE PERINEUM. faeces.* Again, over the tuberosities of the ischia we meet with large masses of fat, separated by strong fibrous septa passing from the skin to the bone, so as to constitute a sort of elastic padding to sit upon. Occasionally, too, there are one or more large bursae interposed between this padding and the bone. So much respecting the general characters of the superficial perineal fascia, as it is called : and now for one other point about it of practical interest. Some anatomists describe this fascia as con- sisting of three, four, or even more layers, but in nature we do not find it so. We may, indeed, divide it into as many layers as we please, according to our skill in dissecting; but that only compli- cates what is, in itself, simple. All that requires notice is that the deeper stratum contains less fat, and has, therefore, more of a mem- branous appearance than the superficial one, and that it is attached on either side to the rami of the pubes and ischium. This ex- plains why urine, blood, or pus effused into the perineum does not make its way on to the thighs, but travels up into the scrotum and penis, where there is no resistance, and so progresses over the sur- face of the abdomen. Having thus directed attention to the subcutaneous tissue, we have next to examine the cutaneous sphincter muscle of the anus, and the superficial vessels and nerves of the perineum. 44. The cutaneous sphincter of the anus arises from the point of the coccyx, and from the ano-coccygeal ligament. The mus- cular fibres surround the anus, and are lost in a pointed manner in the tendinous centre of the perineum. It is called the cutaneous sphincter to distinguish it from a deeper and much more powerful band of muscular fibres which surrounds the last inch or more of the rectum, and is situated close to the mucous membrane. 45. Cutaneous vessels and nerves.—The cutaneous vessels and nerves of the perineum are derived from the internal pudic artery and nerve respectively, and chiefly from that branch of it which * It is this fat in the ischio-rectal fossae which renders them so liable to the occurrence of peculiarly foetid gangrenous abscesses. These should be opened as early as possible lest they burst into the rectum; and one sees how deep the knife must be introduced in order to reach the seat of the mischief.