ORIGIN OF THE CEREBRAL NERVES. 520 from the side of the pons; but their real origin is much deeper. The smaller and more anterior of the two, consisting of motor fibres only, may be traced into the pyramidal tract in the pons; the pos- terior and larger root, consisting of purely sensitive fibres, may be traced into the restiform tract of the medulla oblongata. The nerve proceeds forwards over the apex of the petrous portion of the tem- poral bone; and here there is developed upon the sensitive root the great Gasserian ganglion. This root then divides into three branches; the ophthalmic, which passes through the orbital fissure ; the superior maxillary, which passes through the foramen rotun- dum ; and the inferior maxillary, which passes through the foramen ovale. They all confer common sensibility upon the parts they supply, which comprise nearly the entire head. The small motor root accompanies the inferior maxillary division of the sensitive root, and is distributed to the muscles of mastication. Sixth pair, or abducentes.—This nerve arises from the medulla oblongata, close to the pons, leaves the skull through the sphenoidal fissure, and supplies the rectus externus muscle of the eye. Seventh pair.— This consists of two distinct nerves—the portio dura, or muscular nerve of the face, and the portio mollis, or proper auditory nerve. The apparent origin of both is from the lower part of the pons Varolii. The real origin of the portio dura is in the lateral columns (motor) of the medulla oblongata. The real origin of the auditory nerve is from the floor of the fourth ventricle by several filaments. The seventh pair emerges from the skull through the meatus auditorius interims. For the further description of the portio dura, see Head and Neck, § 224. The auditory nerve is distributed to the internal ear. Eighth pair.—This comprises three nerves—the glossopharyn- geal, the pneumogastric, and the nervus accessorius. The first two arise by several filaments from the restiform column of the medulla oblongata, close to the olive. The nervus accessorius arises by a series of roots from the lateral column of the spinal cord, as low down as the fifth cervical nerve. It then ascends into the skull through the foramen magnum, and leaves it, with the other two nerves, through the foramen jugulare. The glossopharyngeal is