278 SPHENOPALATINE GANGLION. a smaller one of its own, and terminates exclusively in the mucous membrane and glands of the soft palate. The posterior palatine nerve may be traced in a special bony canal down to the soft palate, where it terminates in the mucous membrane and glands. One or two filaments pass into the uvula.* c. Spheno-palatine or nasal branches.—These, three or four in number, pass through the spheno-palatine foramen to the mucous membrane of the nose ; but they are so delicate that they nearly escape observation. To see them clearly, the part should have been steeped for some time in dilute nitric acid : afterwards, having been well washed in pure water, the delicate filaments of these minute nerves may be easily recognised beneath the mucous membrane covering the spongy bones. Most of them ramify upon the outer wall of the nose and the spongy bones. One branch, originally called by Scarpaf " naso-palatine" traverses the roof of the nose, distributes filaments to the back part of the septum narium, and then proceeds obliquely forwards along the septum to the foramen incisivum, through which it passes, and finally terminates in the palate behind the incisor teeth. % d. Branches to the pharynx and Eustachian tube.—In parts prepared for the purpose we may sometimes trace minute filaments to the mucous membrane of the back of the nares, the Eustachian tube, and sphenoidal sinus. * According to Longet, Anat. et Physiol, du Systeme Nerveux, Paris, 1842, the posterior palatine nerve supplies the levator palati and the azygos uvulse with motor power. In this view of the subject, the nerve is considered to be the continuation or terminal branch of the motor root of the ganglion, that, namely, derived from the facial. This opinion is supported by cases in which the uvula is stated to have been drawn on one side in consequence of paralysis of the opposite facial nerve. However, we have not succeeded in tracing the nerve into these muscles. f Annot. Anat. lib. ii. tab. 1. % According to Cloquet, the corresponding nerves of opposite sides unite at the foramen incisivum in a small ganglion which he calls the "naso- palatine." Dissert, sur les Odeurs et les Organes de l'Olfaction. Paris, 1815.