aUADUATUS LUMBORUM. 341 joint. The fibres pass through an especial groove in the bone be- neath the crural arch, and are inserted into the tendon of the psoas. Thus the two muscles, so far as their action goes, may be considered as one. The combined action of the psoas and iliacus is to assist in rais- ing the body from the recumbent position, and to fix the pelvis steadily on the thigh : this supposes the fixed point to be at the trochanter. But supposing the fixed point to be at the spine, then the muscle can bend and rotate the thigh outwards. It is this action which is so troublesome to counteract in fractures of the upper third of the femur. 34. Quadratus lumborum.—This muscle extends from the crest of the ilium to the last rib, and is contained in a sheath formed for it by the aponeurotic origin of the tranversalis. The anterior layer of its sheath is attached to the roots of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae, and the posterior layer to their summits. The muscle arises from about an inch and a half of the crest of the ilium and from the ilio-lumbar ligament: it ascends nearly perpendicularly, and is inserted into the last rib, and into the front of the transverse processes of the four upper lumbar ver- tebrae by as many tendinous slips. In addition to these, however, we commonly find that a few fibres take origin from the transverse processes, and run up to the last rib, crossing the front of the other part of the muscle. The principal use of the muscle is to steady the last rib, and to enable it to serve as a fixed point for the action of other muscles.* By partially raising the quadratus, we observe the aponeurotic origin of the transversalis from the summits of the transverse pro- cesses : this constitutes the posterior part of its sheath, and sepa- rates the muscle from the great erector spinee. Previous to the description of the course of the aorta and its great primary divisions, we must not omit to notice that a chain of absorbent glands extends along the brim of the pelvis and the * The respective attachments of the quadratus lumborum, the crossing of its fibres, and its mode of action, lead to the inference that it is a large inter- costal muscle.