126 INTERNAL JUGULAR VEIN. considerable that during life it might have occasioned the suspicion of an incipient aneurism. Division of the common carotid.—It is necessary to be aware that the situation of the division of the common carotid is liable to great variety. Most commonly, as before stated, it occurs at the upper border of the thyroid cartilage. Its bifurcation, however, may take place at any point between the level of the os-hyoides and the lower border of the cricoid cartilage. Instances have been observed in which the bifurcation has occurred above or even below the points specified; but such anomalies are exceedingly rare. In early life the division takes place farther from the angle of the jaw than in the adult, in consequence of the non-development of that part of the bone. 15. Internal jugular vein.—This great vein descends along the outer side of the common carotid artery. It is one of the chief venous trunks which return the blood from the brain. From the " foramen jugulare," at the base of the skull, the vein passes down, lying to the outer side of the internal carotid: we now see it con- tinuing its course along the outer side of the common carotid, and by tracing it downwards we shall find that it joins the correspond- ing subclavian at nearly a right angle, to form the vena inno- minata. About the level of the os-hyoides and the upper part of the larynx the internal jugular vein commonly receives the facial, lingual, pharyngeal, and superior thyroid veins. It is important to notice that these tributary veins cross both the carotid arteries, and form a kind of plexus in front of them. At the lower part of the neck it is joined most commonly by the inferior thyroid vein. Previously to its termination, the internal jugular vein advances slightly to meet the subclavian, so that it lies on a plane a little anterior to the carotid artery. Again, since the course of the vein is perpendicular, while that of the artery is more oblique, there will necessarily be a small interval between them at the root of the neck, more especially on the right side. In this interval is situated the pneumogastric nerve, and still deeper the vertebral artery. Here also on the left side we shall find the thoracic duct. Generally speaking, the internal jugular vein is completely