155 MUSCLES OF THE PACE. In removing the skin from the middle of the nose a small nerve may be observed on either side called the naso-lobular. It appears between the bone and the cartilage, and divides into fila- ments which supply the apex and the ala of the nose. Musculus risorius (Santorini).— In the dissection of the neck (see § 1) it was mentioned that some of the fibres of the platysma myoides pass over the angle of the jaw and are prolonged on the side of the cheek as far as the angle of the mouth, where they intermingle with the orbicularis oris and other muscles in this situation. In some subjects a few scattered fibres may be traced as high as the zygomatic muscles, or even the orbicularis palpe- brarum. But the name prefixed to this paragraph was applied by Santorini* to a narrow band of muscular fibres distinct from the platysma, which arise from the fascia covering the masseter muscle, and pass more or less obliquely inwards to the angle of the mouth. This little cutaneous muscle is very variable in its degree of development, and in many subjects is entirely absent. Its action is implied by its name. In the examination of the several muscles of the face it is con- venient to arrange them, so far as possible, under three heads; apper- taining respectively to the mouth, the nose, the eyebrows and lids. It matters little which group of muscles be first selected for study ; perhaps it is more convenient to begin with those connected with the mouth. The muscles, then, of the mouth are arranged in this wise: there is an orbicular or sphincter muscle of considerable size surrounding the lips; from this, as from a common centre, certain muscles diverge and are fixed into the surrounding bones; thus the various movements of the mouth are effected. The muscles are exceed- ingly well named, elevators, depressors, &c, according to then respective action. 53. Orbicularis oris.—This is a flat muscle, nearly an inch in breadth, and elliptical in form, corresponding to the aperture of the mouth. It varies in size and thickness in different individuals, and thus produces the great variety in the prominence of the lips, * Jo. Dom. Santorini Observ. Anat. 4to. Rot. 1724, I