121 THYUOID BODY. the thyroid body, called " the pyramid," frequently ascends in front of the crico-thyroid membrane, as high as the "pomum-Adami," and is connected to the body of the os-hyoides by fibrous tissue. In some subjects we may observe a few muscular fibres passing from the os-hyoides, or perhaps the thyroid cartilage, to the pyra- mid or some part of the thyroid body. This constitutes the "levator glandulse ihyroideee,"'* of some anatomists.f There are instances in which the pyramid is double; and lastly, we have seen a considerable portion of this thyroid substance lying over the crico-thyroid membrane, and completely isolated from the rest of the organ. These several varieties deserve the notice of the sur- geon, because any one portion of this structure may become enlarged independent of the rest, and occasion a bronchocele. Taken as a whole, the thyroid body varies considerably in size in different individuals and at different periods of life. It is rela- tively much larger in the child than the adult, and in the female than the male. In old age it diminishes in size, and presents a more indurated texture, in which earthy matter is occasionally found. But by far the most notable consideration in respect to the organ in question is the number, the large size, and the free inosculations of its blood-vessels. In fact, it appears to be composed of a tissue of arteries and veins. The superior thyroid arteries enter the front surface of the apex of each lobe; the inferior thyroid enter the under surface of the base. A fifth artery, called a middle thyroid, is observed in some subjects ; it comes from the arteria innominata, or the arch of the aorta, and ascends directly in front of the trachea to the isthmus. Its veins are equally large, and form a plexus upon the surface. The superior and inferior thyroid veins accompany their corre- sponding arteries, and open into the internal jugular. The middle thyroid descend over the front of the trachea beneath the sterno- thyroid muscles, communicate freely with each other, and terminate * See preparation in Museum of St. Barth. Hosp. Patholog. Series, No. 14. f Soemmerring de corp. hum. fabric.