140 BRANCHES OF THE EXTEKNAL CAROTID. guides are trustworthy only when the vessels are normal in their origin and course. We have known an instance in which a dis- tinguished anatomist failed in an attempt to tie the lingual artery, because, as was subsequently ascertained, the vessel arose from the facial behind the submaxillary gland, and passed through the mylo- hyoid muscle to reach the tongue. 34. Facial or external maxillary artery.—This is generally the third branch of the external carotid, though it sometimes arises by a trunk common to it and the lingual. It passes forwards beneath the digastric us and stylo-hyoideus, traverses in a tortuous manner either the substance of the submaxillary gland or a groove on its under surface, and then ascends over the ramus of the jaw, where we find it on the anterior edge of the masseter muscle. Its subsequent course will be examined with the dissection of the face. Its branches below the jaw are as follows :— a. The ascending palatine ascends between the stylo-glossus and the stylo-pharyngeus muscles to the side of the pharynx, and ramifies chiefly upon the velum palati, tonsil, and Eustachian tube, inosculating with the descending palatine (a branch of the internal maxillary). h. The tonsillar, sometimes a branch of the preceding, ascends close to the internal pterygoid muscle and supplies the tonsils. c. Numerous small branches to the submaxillary gland. d. The sub-mentalf already described (see § 21). The facial vein usually passes over the submaxillary gland immediately beneath the fascia, and terminates in the internal jugular: sometimes it joins the external. 35. Occipital artery.—This artery, generally the fourth branch of the external carotid, ascends backwards beneath the sterno- mastoid muscle and along the lower border of the digastricus to the interval between the mastoid process of the temporal bone and the transverse portion of the atlas: then it passes horizontally backwards beneath the splenius and trachelo-mastoid muscles, and finally, ascending over the occiput, divides into wide-spreading branches for the supply of the scalp. In the first part of its course it crosses the internal jugular vein, and is itself crossed by the