395 DISSECTION OF THE FEMALE PELVIS. parallel to the axis of the pelvis. The uterus, then, is so placed that it is ready to rise out of the pelvis into the abdomen after the embryo has attained a certain size. The wisdom of this provision becomes manifest in those cases where, from some accidental cause, the natural direction of the uterus has been altered, so that, instead of rising freely out of the pelvis, it becomes what is called retro- verted ; that is, the large end is tilted backwards against the sacrum, while the apex presses forwards against the neck of the bladder. It need hardly be said that such a malposition more or less ob- structs the passage of both urine and faeces. Respecting the size and shape of the uterus in the unimpreg- nated state, a better idea is conveyed by a single glance than by any description. Anatomists, however, generally liken it to what a pear would be if it were a little flattened; or, in other words, it is triangular with the angles rounded off. As to its average size, it is about three inches long, two inches broad, and one inch thick, at the upper part; but of course there is variety in this respect, arising from age, the effect of pregnancies., and other causes. -For convenience of description, we divide the organ into the fun- dus, the body, and the cervix. The term fundus is applied to that part which lies above the level of the Fallopian tubes. The body is the central part, while the cervix is the narrow part which projects into the vagina. It has already been mentioned that the vagina is very closely attached round the neck of the uterus,TlsNi(MKe^have now to observe that it is attached rather higher up behind than in front. The mouth of the uterus is at the apex of the neck. It is a trans- verse fissure, with a slightly proif|pent lip in front and behind, and, from its fancied resemblance to the mouth of a tench, it was called by the old anatomists the os tincce. Postponing for the present the examination of the interior of the vagina and the uterus, let us pass on to the vessels and nerves of these organs. 93. Uterine and vaginal arteries.—In addition to the branches given off in the male (described at § 70), each internal iliac artery, in the female, furnishes a branch to the uterus and another to the vagina. a. The uterine artery proceeds from the anterior division of the