STRUCTURE OF THE URETHRA. 383 The general direction of the urethra, when the penis hangs flaccid, is like the letter S reversed ; but if the penis be held up straight, the canal forms only one curve* through the pubic arch, with the concavity upwards. The degree of this curvature varies at diffe- rent periods of life. In the child, on account of the position of the bladder, the curve forms part of a much smaller circle than it does in the adult; but it gradually widens as age increases, and our catheters are shaped accordingly. At the same time the parts, when in a sound state, will always yield sufficiently to admit the introduction of even a straight instrument into the bladder. Besides the ducts of the testicle and other accessory glands, a number of ducts open into the urethra, proceeding from little glands situated in the submucous tissue. These ducts, which are called the lacuna, are just large enough to admit a bristle, and they all run in the same direction as the stream of the urine. The urethra is lined by cylindrical epithelium, and near the orifice of the glans is provided with papillae : this, therefore, is the most sensitive part. The lining membrane is laid upon a thin but firm substratum of fibrous tissue. The fibres run in a transverse direction, and are endowed with considerable elasticity, f so as not only to assist in propelling with greater force the column of urine, but also to contract the canal afterwards. This elasticity gives to the parts a certain springiness of which we are often sensible in the introduction of instruments. * By taking plaster casts from vertical sections of the pelvis of adults, after the urethra had been injected with wax, Mr. Briggs found that the curve of the urethra formed an arc of a circle of three and a quarter inches in diameter, the cord being two inches and three-quarters, or rather less than one-third of the circumference. The sharper bend of the urethra in the child was well known to Camper. " In recenter natis, vesica basi sua elatius sita, pedetentim descendit, unde necessario sequitur curvaturam urethrse majorem esse in junioribus quam in adultis."—Demon. Anat. Pathol, lib. ii. p. 13. t This elastic structure is very marked in the urethra of the wether or the ox.