465 SUPERFICIAL MUSCLES OF THE SOLE. The plantar fascia must be partially removed in order to examine the muscles. In doing this, we soon discover that towards the os calcis its removal is not accomplished without some difficulty, because the muscles arise from it. 86. Superficial muscles.—After the removal of the fascia, three muscles are exposed. All arise from the os calcis and the fascia, and proceed forwards to the toes.* The central one is the flexor brevis digitorum; the lateral are, respectively, the abductor pollicis, and the abductor minimi digiti. Let us examine the lateral muscles first. 86. Abductor pollicis.—This muscle arises from the inner and back part of the os calcis, and from the internal annular ligament. Its origin arches over the plantar vessels and nerves in their passage into the sole. The fibres run along the inner side of the sole, and terminate on a tendon which is inserted into the inner side of the base of the first phalanx of the great toe. 87. Abductor minimi digiti.—This muscle has a very strong origin from the under surface of the os calcis, and also from its external tubercle. Some of its fibres terminate on a tendon which is inserted into the proximal end of the metatarsal bone of the little toe i but the greater part run on to a tendon which is inserted into the outer side of the first phalanx of the little toe. 88. Flexor brevis digitorum.—This muscle arises from the under surface of the os calcis, between the two preceding. It passes forwards, and divides into four tendons, which run super- ficial to those of the long flexor. If we cut open the sheath which contains them, and follow them on to the toes, we find that each bifurcates over the first phalanx, so as to allow the long tendon to pass, and then the two slips, re-uniting, are inserted into either side of the second phalanx. In fact, just the same arrangement prevails as in the fingers. We must now detach the three superficial muscles from the os calcis, and remove them from the sole, leaving them, however, con- nected to the toes, so that they can be replaced if necessary. This * They are separated from each other by strong perpendicular partitions, proceeding from the fascia.