398 STRUCTURE OP THE UTERUS. rition. In the adult virgin it is smooth, plump, and round, and projects about half on inch; and its mouth is a small transverse fissure. But after the stretching which it undergoes in labour, one cannot wonder that it loses its plumpness, that the lips become flaccid and fissured, and the mouth larger than it was before.* The uterus must now be laid open by a longitudinal incision, in order to examine its interior. The first thing that attracts atten- tion is the great thickness of the walls. Before we come into the proper cavity in the body of the uterus, we have to slit up a long narrow channel which leads up into it through the neck. This channel is not of the same dimensions throughout, for it is dilated in the middle, and gradually narrows towards each end. The upper end, which leads into the body of the uterus, is called the os inter- num, and the lower end, which leads into the vagina, is called the os externum. The passage itself is generally called the cavity of the neck. It remains unchanged in pregnancy for some time after the cavity in the body has expanded, but of course gradually dis- appears with the increasing size of the embryo. The shape of the cavity in the body of the uterus is triangular, with the apex towards the cervix. In a virgin uterus we observe that the cavity is remarkably small, and that its sides are convex; but in a uterus which has borne many children, we must expect to find that the cavity has lost the convexity of its sides, and that it has a little increased in capacity. Each angle at the base is somewhat produced, and leads to the minute opening of the oviduct. This production of the angles is noticed more or less in different females, and is the last indication of the two horns of the uterus in some orders of mammalia. * Instances are recorded in which the neck of the uterus is preternaturally long. It has been known to project even as much as an inch and a half into the vagina. In such cases it gradually tapers, and terminates in a very narrow mouth. This is said to be one cause of sterility, and it is recommended either to dilate the mouth, or to cut off a portion of the neck. In support of this opinion, it is stated that Dupuytren was once consulted by a lady on account of barrenness : finding the neck of the uterus unusually elongated, he removed a portion of it, and in due time the lady became pregnant. (Hyrtl, Handbuch der top. Anatom.)