287 MUCOUS MEMBRANE OF THE NOSE. 235. Mucous or Schneiderian* membrane.—This membrane lines the cavities of the nose and the air-cells about it, and adheres very firmly to the periosteum. We observe that at the lower border of the several turbinated bones it is disposed in more or less thick and loose folds. Such a fold is in some instances so promi- nent on the lower turbinated bone that, if slightly swollen, it might very likely be mistaken during life for a polypus. The membrane varies in its degree of thickness and vascularity in dif- ferent parts of the nasal cavities. Upon the lower half of the septum and the lower turbinated bones it presents a much greater thickness than elsewhere, in consequence of a minute plexus of tortuous arteries and veins in the submucous tissue. The veins are especially numerous. Their sudden turgescence produces the temporary obstruction, in one or other of the nasal passages, so common in an ordinary cold. In the sinuses, on the other hand, the mucous membrane is thinner and less vascular, and so closely applied upon the periosteum that it is usually described as a fibro- in ucous membrane. The greater vascularity of the Schneiderian membrane in that particular part of the nose which is used as a respiratory passage, is obviously intended to elevate the temperature of the inspired air, and to pour out a copious secretion which answers the double purpose of partially saturating the air with vapour, and of prevent- ing the membrane itself from becoming too dry. Every one is aware that breathing is performed more comfortably through the nose than through the mouth. In the neighbourhood of the nostrils the mucous membrane is furnished with papillae and a scaly epithelium, like the skin. In the sinuses and all the lower regions of the nose the epithelium is columnar, and provided with cilia; but in the upper part of the nose, where the sense of smell resides, we no longer find ciliated epithelium, but a soft pulpy stratum of nucleated cells, f 236. Blood-vessels of the interior of the nose.—The arteries of * So named in honour of Schneider, a learned anatomist who first gave an accurate description of this membrane. De Catarrhis. Wittenberg, 1660. f See Bowman and Todd, Physiolog. Anatom., cap. xvi.