BRANCHES OF THE INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY. 179 it ramifies between the dura mater and the bones. This artery sometimes furnishes a supplemental meningeal, which passes into the skull through the foramen ovale. e. The inferior dental artery arises opposite the preceding, and descends behind the neck of the jaw to the dental foramen, which it enters in company with the dental nerve. It then proceeds along the canal excavated in the diploe of the jaw as far as the symphysis, where it minutely inosculates with its fellow. In this canal, which runs beneath the roots of all the teeth, the artery gives off branches which ascend through the minute apertures in the fangs, and ramify upon the pulp in their interior. Opposite the foramen men tale there arises the mental branch already described, § 75 a. Before entering the lower jaw the dental artery sometimes furnishes a small branch which accompanies the nerve proceeding to the mylo-hyoid muscle (see § 21, a). B. In the middle of its course, i. e. in connexion with the pterygoid muscles, the internal maxillary gives off a series of branches to the muscles of mastication, namely,— a. The deep temporal arteries, commonly two in number, ascend to supply the temporal muscle, ramifying close to the bone. They inosculate with the superficial temporal arteries, and often send small branches through the malar bone into the orbit, inosculating with the lacrymal. b. The masseteric branch passes through the sigmoid notch of the jaw to the under surface of the masseter. c. The pterygoid branches are irregular in number, origin, and size. d. The buccal branch proceeds forwards with the buccal nerve to the buccinator. C. In the last part of its course, i. e. in the spheno-maxillary fossa, the internal maxillary gives off the following :— a. The superior maxillary branch runs tortuously along the back part of the superior maxillary bone, and sends small arteries which pass through the foramina in the bone to supply the pulps of the molar and bicuspid teeth. It also supplies the gums and the mucous membrane of the antrum. b. The infra-orbital branch passes through the spheno-maxillary K