PAROTID GLAND. 1G9 The greater part of it is situated above the parotid duct, into which it pours its secretion by one or two smaller ones. The duct of the parotid gland (ductus Stenonis*), is very thick and strong, differing in this respect much from that of the sub- maxillary, which is less exposed to injury. It runs forwards over the masseter muscle, through the fat of the cheek, perforates the buccinator, and opens into the mouth opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw. Near its termination it is crossed by the zygomaticus major muscle and the facial vein. After perforating the buccinator the duct passes for a short distance between the muscle and the mucous membrane. Its orifice is small and con- tracted when compared with the diameter of the rest of the duct, which will admit a crowquill, arid it is not easily found in the mouth, on account of a fold of mucous membrane. Since it is important in operations about the face to know the precise direction of the duct, we may define it by a line drawn from the tip of the lobe of the ear to a point midway between the nose and the upper lip: of course the nose is presumed to be of the ordinary length. a. Two or three small absorbent glands may generally be ob- served on the surface of the parotid. They are situated most fre- quently near the ear, but sometimes nearer the socia parotid?s. A small gland also often lies over the root of the zygoma. There are no other superficial absorbent glands on the face ; but two or more are deeply seated in the substance of the parotid gland. It will readily be conceived that a tumor formed by enlargement of glands so situated might be mistaken for disease of the parotid itself. We must now cut into the substance of the parotid gland, in order to see the following important parts contained in its interior: I. Nearest to the surface will be seen the primary branches of the facial nerve, which cross over the external carotid artery, and form by their mutual communications what is called the "pes anserinus," from its supposed resemblance to the foot of a goose. 2. Deeper still the external carotid appears; it gives off numerous small * Nic. Steno, de glandulis oris, &c. Lugd. Bat. 1661.