DISSECTION OF THE FEMALE PELVIS. 894 the neck of the uterus projects into it. This proceeding will also make more intelligible what is to be observed respecting the length, axis, and width of the vagina. «. The length of the vagina, in an unimpregnated healthy adult, is, on an average, about 4 J inches. It may be more, or it may be less, the difference in each case depending upon the depth of the pelvis, the stature and age of the individual. Owing to the curved direction of the vagina, the anterior wall is about three-quarters of an inch shorter than the posterior. The vagina, however, is never so long but what we can, during life, feel the neck of the uterus projecting at the top of it; higher up, or lower down, according to circumstances. For instance, it is a little lower in the erect than in the recumbent position ; again, in the early months of utero- gestatibn, the uterus descends a little into the vagina, so that this canal becomes shorter, but the reverse holds good when the uterus begins to rise out of the pelvis. b. The axis of the vagina is slightly curved with the concavity upwards, and, for all practical purposes, may be said to correspond with the axis of the outlet of the pelvis; whereas the axis of the uterus corresponds with that of the brim of the pelvis. e. The width of the vagina is not uniform throughout. The narrowest part is at the orifice: it is also a little constricted round the neck of the uterus. The widest part by far is about the middle ; and, supposing a transverse section to be made through it in this . situation, it would present the appearance of a broad horizontal fissure. If, therefore, we would insert the bivalve speculum upon anatomical principles, and consequently with the least amount of pain, the blades of the speculum should be vertical when we intro- duce them into the orifice of the vagina, and afterwards turned horizontally. 92. Uterus.—The uterus is the receptacle which receives the ovum, retains it for nine months so as to bring it to maturity, and then expels it by virtue of its muscular walls. Enough has been already said at § 84 of its situation and peritoneal connexions. We have now merely to notice, what was not very manifest before, namely, that its axis slants forwards, so that, upon the whole, the axis of the vagina and uterus describes a curve pretty nearly