297 NERVES OP THE BACK. Having completed the examination of the muscles at the back of the spine, we have next to consider the manner in which they are supplied with nerves and blood-vessels. 260. Nerves of the back.—The posterior divisions of the several spinal nerves are intended to supply the muscles and the skin of the back. They pass backwards between the transverse processes of the vertebras, and then divide (most of them at least) into an external and an internal branch. The general plan upon which these nerves are arranged is nearly the same throughout the whole length of the spine; but since there are certain peculiarities deserving of notice in particular situations, we mu^t examine each region separately. 261. Cervical region.—The posterior division of the first cervical nerve (commonly called the suboccipital) passes between the arch of the atlas and the vertebral artery, and divides into branches which supply the recti and obliqui muscles concerned in the move- ment of the head upon the two first vertebrae. a. The posterior branch (called the great occipital) of the second cervical nerve is the largest of the series. It turns upwards beneath the inferior oblique murcle, passes through the complexus, and supplies the back of the scalp. b. The posterior divisions of the remaining six lower cervical nerves divide into external and internal branches. The external are small, and terminate in the splenius, and the continuation of the erector spinas. The internal}hy far the larger, proceed towards the spines of the vertebras; those of the third, fourth, and fifth between the complexus and the semispinalis*; those of the sixth, seventh, and eighth between the semispinalis and the multifidus spinas : after supplying the muscles proper to this region of the spine, they terminate in the skin (see Arm, § 101). 262. Dorsal region.—The posterior divisions of the spinal nerves in this region come out between the transverse processes and the tendons attached to them. They soon divide into external * The posterior branches of the second, third, and fourth nerves are gene- rally connected, beneath the complexus, by branches in the form of loops. I This constitutes the posterior cervical plexus of some anatomists.