154 DISSECTION OF THE FACE. more appropriate, must turn to that part of tins work in which it is described. DISSECTION OF THE FACE. 52. It requires considerable care and some practice to make a good dissection of the face. The muscles are numerous and com- plicated ; some of them, particularly those of expression, are inter- woven with the subcutaneous tissue and closely united to the skin; their fibres are often pale and indistinct, and separated by more or less fat and cellular membrane. As might be expected, the face is amply supplied with motor and sensitive nerves, of which the rami- fications extend far and wide. For these reasons it need not be matter of discouragement if in a first or even a second attempt the young anatomist fail to make a satisfactory display of the parts he now proposes to examine. In order to make the cheeks as tense as possible the mouth should be filled with horse-hair, and the lips stitched together. It is recommended to make an incision down the mesial line, and another from the condyle of the jaw to the angle of the mouth. In reflecting the skin we must be careful to leave the subcutaneous tissue. It may be well at once to state that the great motor nerve of the face is the portio dura, or facial division of the seventh cerebral nerve. It emerges from th€r stylo-mastoid foramen, and divides into many branches, which pass through the parotid gland and run forwards, subdividing and spreading widely to supply the muscles of the face. The sensitive nerves of the face are supplied by branches from the three great divisions of the fifth cerebral nerve: there is the supra-orbital branch, the infra-orbital, and the mental, each being named after the respective foramen in the bone through which it emerges upon the face. No other nerve takes any share in conferring sensation upon the face except one : we allude to the auriculo-parotidean branch of the cervical plexus, which assists in supplying the skin covering the parotid gland and the adjoining part of the cheek.