119 THYROID BODY. sides are in contact in the mesial line; higher up, they slightly diverge to their insertions. In consequence of the arrangement of these and the preceding muscles the trachea is completely covered in front by muscular fibres. The muscles last described frequently present at their lower part more or less marked transverse tendinous intersections. These intersections are in the human subject quite rudimentary ; but in some animals with long necks they are very remarkable : in the giraffe, for instance, they are developed to such an extent that each depressor muscle is composed of alternations of muscle and tendon. Action.—This group of muscles derives its nerves from a common source (the hypoglossal), and associates to produce a common result. Having their fixed point below, they will depress the os-hyoides and larynx. This movement is observed under two circumstances; in the return of the larynx to its proper position after having been raised in the act of deglutition, and in the utterance of grave sounds. That the larynx is elevated or depressed, according to the height of the note, may be easily ascer- tained by placing our finger upon it while we go through the gamut. Mr. Skey considers that the omo-hyoid is especially con- cerned in the act of sucking.* 12. Thyro-hyoid.—This muscle may be fairly regarded as a continuation of the sterno-thyroid upwards to the os-hyoides. It arises from the oblique line on the outer surface of tha ala of the thyroid cartilage, and is inserted into the side of the body of the os-hyoides, and the anterior half of its greater cornu. It covers the thyroid cartilage and the thyro-hyoid membrane. Action.— It depresses the os-hyoides, or elevates the thyroid cartilage, accord- ing as its upper or lower attachment be the fixed point. 13. Thyroid body.—Divide, transversely, the sterno-hyoid and thyroid muscles about the centre, and partially reflect them, in order to expose what is called the thyroid body. This very vas- cular glandular-like substance is situated over the front and sides * For the arguments upon which this opinion is based, see Med. Gaz. July 7th, 1848.