142 SUPRA-CLAVICULAR REGIOK, this plexus, of which the superficial hranches were traced at an early stage of the dissection (see § 5). The plexus is formed by the anterior branches of the four upper cervical nerves. It consists of a series of loop-like communications, which take place between these several nerves close to the transverse processes of the vertebrae, and it is situated in front of the scalenus posticus and the levator anguli scapulae. The plexus communicates with the hypoglossal nerve, the nervus accessorius, the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, and sometimes with the pneumo-gastric nerve. It furnishes branches to the following muscles :—the sterno- mastoid, trapezius, levator anguli scapulae, the rectus capitis anticus major and minor, the rectus capitis lateralis, the scalenus posticus, the depressors of the os-hyoides (through the communicantes noni, see § 16), and to the diaphragm (through the phrenic nerve). ANATOMY OF THE SUPRA-CLAVICULAR REGION. 40. The anatomy of the posterior inferior triangle, sometimes called the subclavian for obvious reasons, may be conveniently studied at this stage of the dissection. It is essential that the arm be placed by the side of the body, in order that the clavicle and the shoulder may not be raised above their natural position. The space we propose to examine is bounded by the clavicle, the outer border of the sterno-mastoid, and the posterior portion of the omo- hyoid muscle. The area of the triangle formed by the above- mentioned parts will, of course, vary in each case, just in propor- tion to the obliquity of the omo-hyoid muscle, and to the extent to which the sterno-mastoid is attached to the clavicle: the trapezius must also be taken into the account, for in some instances it comes so far forwards as almost to meet the sterno-mastoid. The depth at which the vessels and nerves contained in this space are situated not only deplhds upon the degree to which the clavicle arches forwards, but is also very materially varied, as one may readily ascertain in one's own person, by the elevation or depression of the shoulder. Immediately beneath the skin covering this region we find the platysma myoides (see § 1), a few cutaneous branches of the cer-