LIGAMENTS BETWEEN THE OCCIPUT AND THE VEETEBM. 303 tebrce.—Each joint has a distinct capsular ligament, and a synovial membrane. The surfaces of the bones are coated with cartilage. 279. Motions of the spine.—Though but little movement can take place between any two contiguous vertebrae, (the atlas and axis excepted), yet the collective motion between them all is some- thing considerable. The spine may be bent forwards, backwards, or on either side; and, in consequence of the great elasticity of the intervertebral cartilages, it returns spontaneously to its natural degree of curvature, like an elastic bow. The extent of its mobility is greatest in the cervical region, on account of the thickness of the fibro-cartilages, the small size of the vertebrae, the oblique direction of their articulations, and, above all, the horizontal position and the shortness of their spines. In the dorsal region there is very little mobility, on account of the vertical direction of the articular processes, and the manner in which the arches and the spines of the vertebrae overlap each other. In the lumbar region the spine again becomes more moveable, on account of the thickness of the intervertebral cartilages, and the horizontal direc- tion of its spinous processes. The reason why the cervical and lumbar regions of the spine should be so much more moveable than the dorsal, must be at once obvious. 280. Ligaments between the occipital bone and the two first vertebrje.—The occiput is connected to the atlas by means of an anterior ligament which passes from the front border of the foramen magnum to the front part of the atlas. The thickest part of this ligament is in the middle. A posterior ligament ex- tends in a similar manner from the posterior border of the foramen magnum to the arch of the atlas. Both these ligaments are suffi- ciently loose to allow the free movement of the head backwards and forwards. The condyles of the occipital bone are connected to the corre- sponding articular surfaces of the atlas by capsular ligaments. 281. Ligaments between the occipital bone and the axis.—To see these, we must expose the spinal canal by removing the back of the occiput and the arches of the upper cervical vertebrae. 282. The occipito-axoidean ligament (apparatus colli ligamen-