352 DISSECTION OF THE MALE PERINEUM. THE DISSECTION OE THE MALE PERINEUM. 42. It is advisable to examine first the osseous and ligamentous boundaries of the lower aperture of the pelvis. Looking at a male pelvis (with the ligaments preserved), we observe that this aperture is bounded in front by the pubic arch, and behind by the coccyx and* the great sacro-ischiatic ligaments. This space may, for convenience of description, be divided into two, by an imaginary line drawn from one tuber ischii to the other. The anterior forms a nearly equilateral triangle, of which the sides are from three to three and a half inches in length ; and since it transmits the urethra, we may call it the urethral division of the perineum. The posterior, containing the anus, may be called the anal division.* The subject is supposed to be placed in tbe usual position for lithotomy, with a full-sized staff in the bladder, and the rectum artificially distended. We observe that a central ridge, named the raphe, extends from the anus along the perineum, the scrotum, and the under surface of the penis. It may not be out of place, before the parts are disturbed, to mention that in the lateral opera- tion of lithotomy the incision should commence on the left side of the raphe, rather more than an inch in front of the anus, and that it should be carried obliquely downwards to a point about midway between the anus and the tuber ischii. In the bilateral operation the incision is semilunar, the horns being made on either side be- tween the tuber ischii and the anus, equidistant from these points respectively; while the centre of the incision runs about three- quarters of an inch above the anus. At the anus it is observable that the skin becomes finer and more delicate, forming a gradual transition towards mucous mem- brane ; and during life it is drawn into wrinkles by the permanent contraction of the cutaneous sphincter. Moreover, the skin at the * It is well to bear in mind that the dimensions of the lower outlet of the pelvis are apt to vary in different subjects, and the lithotomist must modify his incisions accordingly.