FRONT OF THE CHEST. 4 middle, so as to terminate upon the higher part of the tendon; whereas the upper fibres descend in an oblique direction, in front of the lower, and terminate upon the lower part of the tendon. Thus the upper and lower fibres of the muscle cross each other previously to their insertion. The structure of the tendon can be best examined after the muscle is divided. It consists of two distinct layers, placed one in front of the other, and united inferiorly: the anterior layer receives the upper and middle fibres of the muscles; the posterior receives the lower. The upper border of the posterior layer of the tendon sends off an aponeurotic expansion, which covers the long head of the biceps, and is attached to the great tuberosity of the humerus. The inferior border of the anterior layer is intimately connected with the fascia of the upper arm, and the tendon of the deltoid muscle. The chief action of the pectoralis major is to draw the arm towards the chest: as, for instance, in placing the hand on the oppo- site shoulder, or in pulling an object towards the body. If the arm be elevated, and made the fixed point, the muscle will assist in raising the trunk, as in climbing, The peculiar arrange- ment of the muscular fibres, which we have noticed, serves the purpose of enabling all parts of the muscle to act simultaneously when the arm is extended. Between the pectoralis major and the deltoid, the great muscle of the shoulder, there exists a cellular interval varying in extent in different subjects, but always more marked towards the clavicle. This fissure corresponds pretty nearly to the direction of the axillary artery. It contains a small artery—-the thoracica- humeraria—and the cephalic vein, which, ascending along the outer side of the arm, empties itself into the axillary vein. In this interval, also, are usually found one or more small absorbent glands, called infra-clavicular: they receive the absorbent vessels which accompany the cephalic vein. These glands are situated most frequently near the clavicle, but are observed occasionally several inches lower down along the course of the vein. 5. Anatomy of the infra-clavicular region.—Reflect from the clavicle the clavicular portion of the pectoralis major* Care