COURSE OF THE RECTUM. 350 with its prostate gland at the neck, and the vesiculee seminales. If the bladder be empty, there will be also part of the small intes- tines in the pelvis; but not so if the bladder be distended. It is quite clear that we cannot thoroughly understand the anatomy of the pelvic viscera without making a side view of them. At the same time there are one or two matters concerning them which can be more satisfactorily investigated while the pelvis is undisturbed ; and to these, therefore, our attention will now be directed. a. On looking down from the abdomen into the pelvis, we observe that the rectum enters it usually on the left side of the sacrum, and that, after describing a curve corresponding with the concavity of the sacrum, it terminates at the anus. We observe, too, that, in the first part of its course, it is loosely connected to the back of the pelvis by a peritoneal fold, called the " meso-rectum ;" and that between the layers of this fold the terminal branches (com- monly called the superior hemorrhoidal) of the inferior mesenteric vessels, with the accompanying nerves and absorbents, proceed and ramify round the bowel. But it is very important to remember that the rectum does not take the above course in all cases. We sometimes find that it makes one, or even two, lateral curves ; or that it enters the pelvis on the right side instead of the left. Since these variations from the usual arrangement cannot be ascertained during life, they should make us cautious in the introduction oi bougies; for such things have happened as a perforation of the intestine.* b. Whilst the parts are still undisturbed, we should introduce the fingers into what is called the recto-vesical peritoneal pouch. This is a kind of cul-de-sac formed by the peritoneum in passing from the front of the rectum to the lower and back part of th' bladder. Now, in the adult male subject, the bottom of this pouch is about three-fourths of an inch distant from the prostate gland :f * In old age the rectum has sometimes a zig-zag appearance immediately above the anus. These lateral inclinations are probably produced by the enormous distensions to which the bowel has been occasionally subjected. f The bottom of the pouch is from three and a half to four inches distant