207 POSTERIOR MEDIASTINUM. tinum and the diaphragm, projecting in the form of pendulous processes, like the " appendices epiploicse" of the intestines, and covered by the pleura. But no fat is ever found upon the surface of the lung. It is necessary to be aware that the line of reflection of the pleura from the diaphragm to the ribs is not, in all cases, exactly the same at the back of the chest. Generally speaking, it takes place about the level of the lower border of the last rib. But it may take place at the eleventh, tenth, or even the ninth rib, and in one instance we have seen it as high as the eighth. Under such circumstances the space in which the lungs could expand pos- teriorly, would be proportionately diminished. In these excep- tional cases the conformation of the parts was natural, and not the result of disease. 111. Posterior mediastinum and its contents.—We must first raise the right lung out of the chest, and fasten it towards the left side. The so-called posterior mediastinum is a space left in front of the spine between the two mediastinal layers of pleura for the passage of the aorta, oesophagus, thoracic duct, &c. through the chest. To expose these parts we have merely to remove the pleura, and a tolerably compact layer of fibrous tissue. With a very little dissection, the contents of the posterior medias- tinum will be exposed in the following relative position :— The descending aorta lies close to the spine. In front of the aorta is the oesophagus surrounded by the oesophageal plexus of nerves, and here and there an absorbent gland. Along the right side of the aorta, close to the spine, runs the vena azygos. Between the aorta and the vena azygos is the thoracic duct. Each of these should be separately examined, and first the aorta. 112. Thoracic aorta.—We have already traced the arch of the aorta to the left side of the body of the third dorsal vertebra (see § 101). From this point the great artery descends on the left side of the spine, gradually approaching towards the mesial line. Nearly opposite the last dorsal vertebra it passes between the crura of the diaphragm and enters the abdomen. Its left side is covered by pleura: on its right side run the vena azygos and thoracic duct;