NERVUS ACCESSORIES, 116 A muscle called the omohyoid, which crosses the direction of the sterno-mastoid, subdivides these great primary triangles into four secondary smaller ones, of very unequal size: an anterior superior, an anterior inferior, a posterior superior, and a posterior inferior. It is unnecessary to particularize their several boundaries, since the direction of the homo-hyoid muscle renders them at once obvious. This conventional division of the neck into triangles, though not mathematically precise, is found convenient for the purpose of anatomical description. Divide the sterno-mastoid transversely near the centre, and reflect the upper and the lower half from the subjacent sheath of fascia. It will probably be necessary to cut through one or two of its small nutrient arteries, which are derived either from the external carotid, or some one of its primary branches. Beneath the attach- ment of the lower half of the muscle there will be found a quantity of loose cellular tissue, with one or two small absorbent glands: the anterior jugular vein will probably be seen passing outwards to join the external, or perhaps the internal, jugular; and it is often accompanied by a small artery, a branch of the supra-scapular. The possibility of the vein or the artery being larger than usual should be borne in mind in the subcutaneous section of the sterno- mastoid. On this account it is recommended to divide the muscle about an inch from its origin. 12. The upper part of the sterno-mastoid muscle is traversed obliquely by a large nerve called the spinal accessory, " nervus accessorius Willisii."* This nerve, commonly classified as one of the divisions of the eighth pair of cerebral nerves, runs a very remarkable course. It arises from the cervical portion of the spinal cord by a series of filaments from the motor tract, the same tract which gives origin to the anterior roots of all the spinal nerves. Formed by the union of these filaments, the nerve ascends through the foramen magnum into the skull. It leaves the skull through the foramen lacerum posterius, and descends behind the internal jugular vein (in some cases in front of it) to the under surface of the sterno-mastoid muscle. The nerve passes obliquely through * Willis, nervor. descr. cap. xxiii. ; Opera Omnia, Amst. 1682.