CEREBELLUM. 503 backwards, it terminates in a small conical projection, called the "pyramid" Moreover, each hemisphere presents on its under surface certain secondary lobes, to which fanciful names have been applied. For instance, that portion which immediately overlays the side of the medulla oblongata is called the tonsil-like lobe (amygdala) : it is in the deep valley between these lobes that the uvula lies. Again, at the most anterior part of each hemisphere, and nearest to the middle line, is a little lobe called the "flocculus" or pneumo-gas- tric lobe. To examine the internal structure of the cerebellum, a longi- tudinal section should be made through the thickest part of one of the hemispheres. There is then seen in the centre a large nucleus of white matter, from which branches radiate into the grey substance in all directions. Each of these branches corresponds to one of the plates of the cerebellum, and from it other smaller branches proceed and again subdivide. This racemose appearance of the white matter in the substance of the grey has been likened to the branches of a tree deprived of its leaves, and is generally known as the " arbor vitce ;" and it is a beautiful contrivance for bringing an extensive surface of the two kinds of nervous matter into connection with each other. In the centre of the white nucleus of each hemisphere there is an oval space, circumscribed by a zigzag line of grey matter. To this the name corpus dentatum or rhomboideum has been given. It is displayed both by a vertical and by a horizontal section. The cerebellum is connected with the cerebro-spinal axis as fol- lows:—With the medulla oblongata, by means of the restiform or sensory tracts of nervous matter: these are sometimes called its in- ferior crura;—with the cerebrum, by means of the processus a cere- bello ad testes : these are called its superior crura. The transverse fibres of the pons are said to constitute the middle crura. Respecting the function of the cerebellum, the arguments fur- nished by comparative anatomy render probable that it is a coordi- nator of muscular movements,—as, e, g., in the action of walking, flying, swimming, &c.