167 AltTEftlES OF THE FACE. The facial artery also supplies numerous unnamed branches to the muscles of the face, and inosculates with the transversalis faciei, infra-orbital and mental arteries. The facial artery and its ramifications are surrounded by a minute plexus of nerves (nervi molles), which are scarcely visible to the naked eye. These nerves are derived from the superior cer- vical ganglion of the sympathetic, and are presumed to exert a powerful influence over the contraction and dilatation of the capillary vessels, and thus occasion those sudden changes in the counte- nance indicative of certain mental emotions. We refer to the every- day phenomena of blushing, and sudden paleness. The facial vein differs from the artery in that it runs apart from it and nearly in a straight course. At the inner angle of the eye it is called the angular vein, and is situated close to the inner side of the tendo oculi, sometimes over, sometimes under the fibres of the orbicularis muscle. The vein descends beneath the zygomatic muscles, over the termination of the parotid duct, and at the ante- rior border of the masseter muscle passes over the ramus of the jaw, and commonly joins the internal jugular vein. The facial vein may be considered as a continuation of a vein (the frontal) which descends perpendicularly over the forehead, and? after receiving the supra-orbital, takes the name of angular at the root of the nose, It communicates with the ophthalmic vein, receives the veins of the eyelids, the external parts of the nose, the coronary veins, and others from the muscles of the face. Near the angle of the mouth it is often much increased in size by the junc- tion of a large vein which comes from a venous plexus deeply seated behind the superior maxillary bone. 71. Ar teria transversalis faciei.—This artery arises from the external carotid, or the temporal in the substance of the parotid gland. It runs forwards over the upper part of the masseter muscle above the parotid duct, and is distributed to the glandula socia parotidis, as well as. the muscles and the skin of the face. The transverse artery is seldom of large size, excepting when it supplies those parts which usually receive blood from the facial. It has been seen equal to the diameter of a goose-quill, furnishing the