124 COMMON CAROTID ARTERY. upon the impulse derived from the artery; consequently, if we lift the tumor, as it were, from the sphere of action of the vessel, all feeling of pulsation ceases. 14. Course and relations of the common carotid artery.—Having proceeded thus far in the dissection, our next object should be to examine the course of the great artery of the head and neck, and its immediate relations to the surrounding parts. It will be necessary to remove with care the absorbent glands which lie upon the sheath of the vessels ; and in doing so, we may observe how freely these glands are supplied with arteries. The common carotid arteries of opposite sides differ in respect to their origin. The right arises from the arteria innominata, nearly behind the corresponding sterno-clavicular joint; the left springs directly from the arch of the aorta, and lies, therefore, at its origin deeper in the chest. Their course in the neck, with which we are at present concerned, is so far alike on both sides that one description will suffice. The common carotid artery ascends obliquely upwards and out- wards, close to the spine, by the side of the trachea and larynx, as high as the upper border of the thyroid cartilage (higher or lower in some instances), and then divides into the external and the internal carotid. Its direction nearly corresponds with a line drawn from the sternal end of the clavicle to a point midway between the angle of the jaw and the mastoid process of the temporal bone ; therefore the arteries of opposite sides diverge from each somewhat like the branches of the letter V. Parallel with the outer side of the artery runs the great internal jugular vein, which if distended with blood is often so large as partially to overlap and conceal the artery. By gently separating the artery from the vein, we shall find a large nerve, the pneumo-gastric, which descends on a deeper plane between them ; all three are enclosed in a common sheath of fascia, but are separated from each other by delicate septa. Crossing obliquely from without inwards, over the front of the sheath may be observed a nerve called " nervus descendens noni" (a branch of the hypoglossal or ninth nerve), which passes down to supply the depressor muscles of the os-hyoides and larynx. Between the sheath and the vertebral column there is the sympathetic nerve.