132 SUBMAXILLARY REGION. perpendicularly from the side of the os-hyoides to the side of the tongue. Between the two last-mentioned muscles there is an interval, in which is observed part of the genio-hyo-glossus lying upon a deeper plane. Upon the hyo-glossus muscle we find the hypoglossal and gustatory nerves, the duct of the submaxillary gland, the sublingual gland, and two or three small absorbent glands. These several objects should now be individually examined. 23. Genio-hyoideus.—This muscle is situated in the mesial line parallel to its fellow of the opposite side. It arises from a tubercle observable on the inner surface of the symphysis of the jaw, and is inserted into the middle of the upper part of the body of the os- hyoides. Its action is to draw the os-hyoides upwards and forwards. 24. Hyo-glossus.—This muscle arises from a part of the body and nearly the whole of the greater cornu of the os-hyoides. Ascending perpendicularly, it forms a broad flat plane of muscular fibres, which expand upon the posterior two-thirds of the side of the tongue. Action.—Singly it draws one side of the tongue towards the floor of the mouth ; conjointly with its fellow it draws down the tongue towards the os-hyoides. 25. Genio-hyo-glossus.—By reflecting the genio-hyoid from its attachment to the jaw, the genio-hyo-glossus will be in part exposed; but we shall have a more complete view of it at a future stage of the dissection. It consists of a thick plane of muscular fibres placed vertically in the mesial line in contact with its fellow. It arises by a tendon from the tubercle on the inner surface of the symphysis of the jaw. From this tendon the fleshy fibres radiate to the os-hyoides and the under surface of the tongue. The upper fibres, which are close to the mucous membrane of the mouth, arch upwards and forwards to the tip of the tongue; the lower ones, in contact with the genio-hyoideus, descend and are attached to the body of the os-hyoides ; the intermediate fibres radiate backwards and terminate in the substance of the under surface of the tongue. Thus the shape of the entire muscle may be compared to a fan, with the apex at the symphysis of the jaw. Action.—The pos-