DISSECTION OF THE HEART. by a few muscular fibres continuous with those of the auricle. On the posterior wall of the auricle between the orifices of the veins, some anatomists speak of a prominence to which the name "tuber- culum Loweri"* has been given. We have never seen anything of the kind in the human heart, though it may be observed in that of many quadrupeds. The left wall of the auricle is formed by the septum auricularum. Upon this septum, immediately above the orifice of the vena cava inferior, there is an oval depression (fossa ovalis), bounded by a prominent border (annulus ovalis). This depression marks the position of the opening (foramen ovale) through which the auricles communicated in foetal life. After birth this opening closes; but if it should so happen that the closure is imperfect, the stream of dark blood in the right auricle mixes with the florid blood in the left, and occasions the symptoms of the disease called " morbus coeruleus." Extending from the anterior margin of the opening of the vena cava inferior to the anterior border of the fossa ovalis, is seen in some subjects a thin fold of the lining membrane of the heart: it is the remains of what was, in foetal life, the Eustachianf valve. The direction of this valve in the foetus is such that it tends to direct the current of blood from the inferior cava towards the foramen ovale. It is at that period of life a valve of considerable size, and contains a few muscular fibres; but after birth it gradually disappears, being no longer required. To the left of this—that is, between the vena cava inferior and the auriculo-ventricular opening— there is the orifice of the coronary vein; it is more or less covered by a semicircular valve, called " valvula Thebesii." Here and there upon the posterior wall of the auricle may be observed minute openings called "foramina Thebesii;" they are the orifices of small veins returning blood from the substance of the heart. Lastly, to the left and rather in front of the orifice of the vena cava inferior is the auriculo-ventricular opening. It is oval in form, and will usually admit the passage of three fingers. * Richard. Lower, Tractatus de Corde, &c. London, 1669. f Eustachius, Libell. de vena sine pari. «