264 CAVERNOUS SINUS. CAROTID ARTERY. This sinus, then, is situated by the side of the body of the sphenoid bone; it extends from the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, to the sphenoidal fissure at the back of the orbit, and here it receives the ophthalmic vein. There is a cor- responding sinus on the opposite side, and the two are connected by small sinuses running transversely, one in front of, the other behind, the " sella tursica :" collectively, therefore, these several sinuses form the " circular sinus" properly so called. In the substance of the outer wall of the cavernous sinus we must trace forwards to the orbit the third nerve, the fourth, and the first division of the fifth. On its inner wall we shall trace the sixth nerve, and (still nearer to the side of the sella tursica) the windings of the internal carotid artery. All these parts are said to be " contained in the cavernous sinus;" but it should be clearly understood that none of them are bathed in the blood of the sinus, because they are separated from it by the lining membrane. Having, then, traced the nerves through the outer wall of the sinus, we observe that they are placed in the following relative position : —The third lies the highest; the fourth lies immediately below the third, but crosses over it just as they enter the orbit; the sixth lies on the inner wall of the sinus, close to the carotid artery. 188. By removing the dura mater, and following the fifth nerve forwards, we find that its great sensitive root spreads out, so as to form an almost inextricable interlacement of nervous fibres, called the semilunar, or, after its discoverer, the " Gasserian" ganglion. From this ganglion proceed the primary divisions of the nerve; namely, the ophthalmic, which passes through the sphenoidal fissure ; the superior maxillary, through the foramen rotundum ; and the inferior maxillary, through the foramen ovale. The small motor root of the fifth lies beneath the ganglion, with which it has no communication, and accompanies the inferior maxillary division for the purpose of supplying the muscles of mastication. 189. Curves of the carotid artery.—After the removal of the ca- vernous sinus, a good view may be obtained of the two remarkable curves, just like the letter S, which are made by the carotid artery on the side of the sella tursica. The vessel enters the cranium at the