DISSECTION OF THE OHGAN OE HEARING. 538 the cochlea, through the scala cochleae ; behind, with the semicir- cular canals ; on the outside, with the tympanum, through the foramen ovale; on the inside, with the bottom of the meatus audi- torius interims. * The semicircular canals, three in number, are situated above and rather behind the vestibule. Each canal forms the greater part of a circle, and opens at each extremity into the vestibule : therefore, there should be six apertures for them ; but, in point of fact, there are only five, since one of the apertures is common to the extremity of two canals. The canals are not precisely of equal diameter throughout; each presents at one end a dilatation termed the " ampulla." This dilatation is the most important part of the canal, because it corresponds to a similar dilatation of the membranous sac upon which the auditory nerve expands. Each canal differs in its direction : they are named accordingly superior, posterior, and external. The superior s. c. is also the most anterior of the three : its direction is vertical, and runs across the petrous bone: the ampulla is at the outer extremity. The posterior s. c. is also vertical, runs parallel to the posterior surface of the petrous bone, and, consequently, at right angles to the pre- ceding : the ampulla is at the lower end. The external s. c. is horizontal in position, with the convexity of the arch directed back- wards: the ampulla is at the outer end. The cochlea is the most anterior part of the internal ear : it very closely resembles a common snail's shell, and is placed so that the base of the shell corresponds to the bottom of the meatus auditorius in tern us, while the apex is directed forwards and out- wards. It consists of the spiral convolutious of two parallel and gradually tapering tubes. The partition by which they are sepa- rated is termed the " lamina spiralis." In the dry bones this partition is only partial; but, in the recent state, it is completed by a membrane. At the very apex of the shell (helicotrema) the * In some instances there is the opening of a small canal into the vesti- bule, termed the aqueductus vestibuli." It leads to the posterior surface of the temporal bone, and contains a small vein.