STRUCTURE OF THE OVARIES. 401 bristle. Its mucous lining is gathered into longitudinal wavy folds, especially at the ovarian end, and with the microscope we detect that it is provided with a columnar ciliated epithelium. It must have long ago struck the attention that the free end of the oviduct communicates with the cavity of the peritoneum ; and this is the only instance in the body where a mucous membrane is directly con- tinuous with a serous one. It explains how it happens that the embryo may escape into the peritoneal cavity, though this be an extremely rare occurrence, because such ample provision has been made against it. It also explains what is said to have taken place, namely, the escape of the water in dropsy through the Fallopian tubes. 100. The ovaries are the most important parts of the female generative organs, since they contain the ova or the germs: for this reason they were called by Galen testes muliebres. We have already mentioned that they are, as it were, suspended to the back of the broad ligament of the uterus by a short peritoneal fold, which transmits their proper vessels and nerves; but besides this, they are connected to the uterus by a thin cord, called the ligament of the ovary. They are of an oblong form, with the long axis trans- verse, and are a little smaller than the testicles in size. In females who have not often menstruated, their surface is smooth and even; but in after life it becomes wrinkled and scarred by the repeated escape of the ova. > The ovary has nearly the same coverings as the testicle. There is first the serous coat, and beneath it the proper fibrous coat, or what is called the tunica albuginea. If a section be made through the ovary in order to examine the interior, we find that it contains a number of transparent vesicles, bedded in a soft fibrous-looking tissue, which is remarkably vascular when properly injected, and is called the stroma of the ovary. The transparent vesicles just alluded to are the ovisacs, or the Graafian * vesicles. They vary in number from eight to twelve, and in size from that of a pin's head to a pea. The smallest are generally near the centre; but as they advance towards maturity, # So called after De Graaf, a Dutch anatomist, who discovered them in 1672, and believed they were the true ova.