FRONT OF THE CHEST. 2 tissue over the pectoralis major muscle, supplying the skin and the mammary gland. They are derived from various sources. Some of the nerves, branches of the superficial cervical plexus, descend over the clavicle: others, branches of the intercostal nerves, per- forate the intercostal spaces, close to the sternum, each in com- pany with a small artery; a third series, also branches of the intercos- tal nerves, come out on the side of the chest between the ribs, and run forwards over the outer border of the pectoralis major. These nerves are larger in the female than the male. The supra-clavicular, the cutaneous nerves which descend over the clavicle, are subdivided according to their direction, into sternal, clavicular, and acromial branches. The sternal, one or two in number, and of small size, cross the inner end of the clavicle, to supply the integument over the upper part of the sternum. The clavicular, two or three in number, pass over the centre of the clavicle, and divide into filaments, which supply the integu- ment over the front of the chest and the mammary gland. The acromial branches, the largest, cross over the outer end of the clavicle, and distribute their filaments to the skin of the shoulder. These several nerves are situated beneath the Platysma as they cross the clavide, and are occasionally accompanied by small arteries. 3. The nerves which perforate the intercostal spaces, about half an inch from the sternum, will be readily found with the small arteries which accompany them. They are called the anterior cutaneous branches of the intercostal nerves* After traversing the fibres of the pectoralis major, each nerve sends a slender filament inwards to the skin over the sternum, and a larger filament out- wards, which supplies the integuments over the pectoral muscle. The nerve which perforates the first intercostal space is the smallest. Those perforating the third, fourth, and fifth, are generally the largest, and supply the mammary gland. The arteries which accompany these nerves are perforating branches of the internal mammary. One, or sometimes two, of them are transmitted through each intercostal space. They pass outwards, supplying the pectoral muscle, the skin, and the