192 MODE OF OPENING THE CHEST. ing points:—lis general capacity is less ; the sternum is shorter; the upper opening is larger in proportion to the lower; and the upper ribs are more moveable, and therefore permit a greater enlargement of the chest at its upper parr, in adaptation to the condition of the abdomen during pregnancy. 94. In the dissection of the interior of the chest it is considered most advantageous to examine the parts in the following order 1st. The so-called anterior mediastinum and its contents; 2dly. The course and relations of the great vessels at the upper part of the chest; 3dly. The relative position of the heart and lungs in a general way ; 4thly. The contents of the so-called posterior medias- tinum with the intercostal muscles, vessels, and nerves; lastly, The anatomy of the heart and the lungs. In the first place, then, we must make a kind of window, so to speak, into the chest, by removing the greater part of the sternum and the cartilages of nearly all the true ribs. Saw transversely through the sternum about a quarter of an inch below the clavicle, and again on a level with the cartilage of the sixth rib. We leave this small portion of the upper part of the sternum as a valuable landmark, though it obstruct to a certain extent the view of the subjacent vessels. Cut through the cartilages of all the true ribs, excepting the first and the last, close to the bone of the rib, and then raise the sternum with its attached cartilages from below up- wards ; in doing this, great care must be taken not to wound the pleura which is closely connected with the cartilages. On the one side it is desirable to remove the internal mammary artery, on the other to leave it in situ. On the under surface of the sternum and cartilages of the ribs thus removed, there is a muscle, variable as to the extent of its origin and development, named triangularis sterni. It must be observed, however, that a certain portion of the muscle is unavoidably injured in this mode of exposing it. 95. Triangularis sterni,—This muscle arises from the posterior surface of the ensiform cartilage and the lower part of the sternum. Its fibres ascend outwards, and divide into four or five digitations which are inserted into a variable number of the cartilages of the true ribs, from the second inclusive to the sixth. The lower fibres