433 EXTENSOR MUSCLES, we ought to separate it from the vastus externus muscle upon which it lies. There is no difficulty in doing so, for it is united to the muscle by an abundance of loose cellular tissue.* With a little perseverance we can trace the aponeurosis to the linea aspera and the head of the fibula, and we see how completely it protects the outer side of the knee-joint. 24. Extensor muscles.—The powerful muscles situated be- tween the tensor fasciae on the outer, and the sartorius on the inner side, are extensors of the leg, and all are supplied by branches of the anterior crural nerve. One of them—namely, the rectus— arises from the pelvis ; the other—namely, the triceps—arises from the shaft of the thigh bone by three portions, called respectively the crurseus, the vastus externus, and internus. 25. Rectus. This muscle arises from the pelvis by two strong tendons, which soon unite, one from the inferior spine of the ilium, the other from the rough surface of the ilium, just above the aceta- bulum. To see them, we should dissect between the sartorius and the tensor fasciae, and in doing so we should be careful not to injure the branches of the external circumflex artery. The muscle descends perpendicularly down the front of the thigh, and is inserted into the common tendon of the extensors. Its structure is worth noticing. A tendon runs down the centre, and the mus- cular fibres are implanted on either side of it, like the vane on the shaft of a feather. 26. Triceps extensor. This mass of muscle immediately sur- rounds and takes origin from the greater part of the shaft of the femur; therefore the whole extent of it cannot be seen without completely dissecting the thigh. It consists of an outer, middle, and inner portion, called respectively the vastus externus, the crurseus, and the vastus internus. The vastus externus arises from the upper three-fourths of the outer side of the shaft of the femur, commencing below the great trochanter; also from the linea aspera and the upper part of the ridge leading to the outer condyle. The * When this tissue becomes the seat of suppuration, the matter is apt to extend all down the outside of the thigh, not being able to make its way to the surface by reason of the dense fascia.