347 LUMBAR PLEXUS OF NERVES. the testicle respectively; but the greater number terminate in the hypogastric plexus. a. The hypogastric plexus is situated between the common iliac arteries on the last lumbar and first sacral vertebra. It con- sists of an inextricable interlacement of nerves, partly sympathetic and partly spinal, and is a sort of nerve-centre for the supply of the pelvic viscera, like the solar plexus (round the coeliac axis) is for the abdominal. The minute filaments proceeding from it accompany the visceral branches of the internal iliac artery, and supply the bladder, prostate gland, rectum, and, in the female, the uterus and vagina. Thus we have the vesical, hemorrhoidal, uterine, and vaginal plexuses. Of these, however, none are seen in an ordinary dissection. 39. Lumbar plexus of nerves.—This plexus is formed by the union of the four upper lumbar nerves. It lies over the transverse processes of the corresponding vertebras, imbedded in the substance of the psoas, so that this muscle must be scraped away before it can be seen. Like the brachial plexus, the nerves composing it sue* cessively increase in size from above. Its branches are five in number, and generally arise in the following order:— a. The first lumbar nerve is, both in course and distribution, analogous to an intercostal nerve, and may, therefore, be appro- priately called the lumbar intercostal.* It crosses obliquely over the quadratus lumborum to the crest of the ilium, and then, entering the abdominal wall, proceeds round to the front and termi- nates in the skin of the hypogastrium. Like the other intercostals, it gives off a lateral cutaneous branch; but this is of much larger size than the others, and runs over the crest of the ilium to supply the skin of the buttock. b. The external cutaneous nerve of the thigh is generally de- rived from the second lumbar nerve. It runs through the psoas, then, crossing obliquely the iliacus towards the spine of the ilium, * It often happens that the first lumbar nerve divides into two branches : of these, the upper is generally termed the ilio-hypogastric; the lower, the ilio-inguinai. But both run nearly a similar course, and have a similar dis- tribution.