189 CERVICAL GANGLIA OF THE SYMPATHETIC. nected with all the spinal nerves; on the other it furnishes nume- rous branches to the organs in the neck, the chest, the abdomen, and the pelvis. Its upper or cephalic extremity penetrates into the interior of the cranium through the carotid canal, surrounds the internal carotid artery, communicates with several cranial nerves, and eventually joins its fellow of the opposite side upon the anterior communicating artery. Its sacral extremity also joins its fellow by means of a little " ganglion impar/' situated in the mesial line. In the cervical portion of the sympathetic there are commonly three ganglia, named, from their position, superior, middle, and inferior. Each of these we shall successively describe in terms as general as possible, for the reason that their ramifications are subject to great variety. A. Superior cervical ganglion,—This, the largest of the three, is situated near the base of the skull, upon the rectus capitis anticus major muscle, and behind the internal carotid artery. It is of a reddish-grey colour like other ganglia, of an elongated oval shape, varying in length from one to two inches. It may facilitate the description of its several branches if we divide them into—1st, those which, according to the present state of our knowledge, are presumed to connect it with other nerves; and 2dly, those which originate from it. It is then connected by branches as follows :— a. With each of the four upper spinal nerves. b. With the hypoglossal, pneumogastric, and glosso-pharyngeal nerves. c. With the third and the sixth cerebral nerve (in the cavernous sinus). d. With the several ganglia of the sympathetic system about the head and neck; namely, the ophthalmic, spheno-palatine, otic, and submaxillary. The branches which it distributes are— e. Nerves to the heart.—One or more descend behind the sheath of the carotid, and entering the chest, join the cardiac plexus. Nerves to the pharynx.—These join the pharyngeal plexus. g. Nerves to the blood-vessels.—These nerves, named on account