385 STRUCTURE OF THE PENIS. In a groove along their under surface runs the urethra, which is itself surrounded by a vascular spongy tissue, called the corpus spongiosum; an accumulation of this at the end of the organ forms theglans. These two structures, then,-—the corpora cavernosa, and the corpus spongiosum,—together form the penis; though they appear closely united, yet they are quite distinct from each other, as may he easily ascertained by making a transverse section. Let us examine each separately. c. The corpora cavernosa constitute more than two-thirds of the bulk of the penis. They commence posteriorly by two gradu- ally tapering portions, called the crura, which are attached, one on each side, in an appropriate groove in the descending ramus of the pubes.* The crura converge, come into apposition at the root of the penis, and then run on, side by side, to form the body of the organ. Anteriorly, each terminates in a rounded end which is re- ceived into a corresponding depression in the glans, so that this latter fits on to them as it were like a cap. If a longitudinal section be made through one of the corpora cavernosa, we observe that its interior is composed of a delicate reticular structure, surrounded by a thick fibrous coat made up of glistening fibres, closely set, and crossing in various directions. This coat forms a cylinder of adequate strength to protect and sup- port the delicate structure within, and at the same time sufficiently elastic to allow the distension of the penis. Moreover, since the corpora cavernosa lie in apposition, this coat forms a longitudinal partition between them. The partition, however, is only complete near the root of the penis; along the rest of the organ there are a number of gaps in it, so that, upon the whole, it has somewhat the appearance of a comb; and for this reason it has been called the septum pectiniforme. Through this partition the vascular struc- ture on the one side communicates freely with that on the other, and therefore both sides of the penis must become erect simulta- neously. * While speaking of the attachments of the penis, it should be mentioned that its upper part is connected to the symphysis pubis by an elastic ligament called the " ligamentum suspensorium penis,"