166 ARTERIES 0* THE FACE* pel. It serves to fill up the zygomatic fossa, and being in itself so soft and delicate does not present the least obstacle to the free movements of the lower jaw. Its absorption in emaciated indivi- duals occasions the sinking of the cheek. We must next examine the facial artery and its branches. 70. Facial artery.—This artery passes over the ramus of the jaw at the anterior border of the masseter muscle. To this point it was traced in the dissection of the neck (see § 34). It now ascends very tortuously near the corner of the mouth and the ala of the nose, towards the inner angle of the eye, where, much diminished in size, it inosculates with a small branch of the ophthal- mic artery. In the first part of this course the artery is covered only by the platysma; above the corner of the mouth it is crossed by a few fibres of the orbicularis oris and the zygomatic muscles, and still higher it is covered by some of the fibres of the levator labii supeiioris alseque nasi. It lies successively upon the bucci- nator, levator anguli oris and levator labii superioris muscles, and gives off the following branches. a. Inferior coronary.—This artery comes off near the angle of the mouth, runs tortuously along the lower lip, between the mucous membrane and the orbicularis muscle, and inosculates with its fellow of the opposite side. b. Superior coronary.—This proceeds along the upper lip close to the mucous membrane, and inosculates with its fellow ; thus a complete arterial circle is formed round the mouth. These arteries can easily be felt in one's own person pulsating on the inner side of the lip, not far from the free border. From this circle numerous branches pass off to the papillae of the lips, to the mucous membrane, and the labial glands. The superior coronary commonly gives off a small branch which ascends along the septum to the apex of the nose. It is commonly called the artery of the septum. c. The lateral artery of the nose, a branch of considerable size, arises opposite the ala nasi, and ramifies upon the external surface of the nose. d. The angular artery, which may be regarded as the termina- tion of the facial, inosculates on the inner side of the tendo oculi with a branch of the ophthalmic.