DISSECTION OF THE FEMALE PELVIS. 391 opens on the inner side of the nymph ee. These glands, however, diminish in old age, and they are not invariably present in the young. In cases of virulent gonorrhoea they are apt to become diseased, and give rise to the formation of an abscess in the labium, which is very difficult to heal. The description of the perinseel branches of the pudic vessels and nerves, given in the dissection of the male perineum, applies, mutatis mutandis, to the female, excepting that they are propor- tionably small, and that the artery which supplies the bulb of the urethra in the male is distributed round the orifice of the vagina in the female. DISSECTION OF THE FEMALE FELVIS. 84. The learner is presumed to be familiar with the anatomy of the viscera in the male pelvis. Our present concern, therefore, is, to examine the organs superadded in the female, viz. the uterus and its appendages. We shall describe, first, their position in a general way ; and, secondly, their special anatomy. On looking down into the female pelvis, we see the uterus interposed between the bladder in front and the rectum behind. From either side of the uterus there extends a broad fold of peri- toneum to the side of the pelvis. These folds are called the broad ligaments of the uterus. On the posterior surface of the ligament are the ovaries, one on either side. They are completely covered by peritoneum, and suspended to the ligament by a small peritoneal fold. Along the upper part of the ligament we find between its layers a tube about four inches long, called the Fallopian tube. A better name for it is the oviduct, since its office is to convey the ovum from the ovary into the uterus. For this purpose, one end of it terminates in the uterus, while that nearer to the ovary expands into a wide mouth, furnished all round with prehensile fringes, which, like so many fingers, grasp the ovum as soon as it is ready to escape from the ovary. Lastly, there run up to the ovary, be- tween the layers of the broad ligament, the spermatic, or rather the ovarian vessels and nerves which arise from the aorta in the lumbar