446 PERONEI MUSCLES* top of the foot. It is also accompanied by two veins, one on either side, which communicate at intervals by cross branches. The best guide to the artery in the upper part of its course is the inner edge of the fibula; on the top of the foot, the long ex- tensor tendon of the great toe. 39. The branches of the anterior tibial are as follows :— a. The recurrent branch ascends close by the outer side of the head of the tibia to the knee-joint, where it inosculates with the other articular arteries. b. Irregular muscular branches. c. The malleolar branches, external and internal, ramify over the ankle, supplying the joint, the articular ends of the bones, and the sheaths of the tendons around them. d. The tarsal branch arises near the navicular bone, passes beneath the extensor brevis digitorum to the outside of the foot, supplies the bones and joints of the tarsus, and inosculates with the arteries in the sole. e. The metatarsal branch generally runs towards the outside of the foot, near the bases of the metatarsal bones, and gives off the three outer interosseous arteries. These pass forwards over the corre- sponding interosseous muscles, supply them, and then subdivide so as to supply the opposite sides of the upper surface of the toes. They usually communicate by what are called perforating branches with the plantar arteries. f. The dorsalis hallucis is, strictly speaking, the artery of the first interosseous space. It comes from the anterior tibial just before this sinks into the sole, and runs forwards to supply the opposite sides of the two first toes. 40. Peronei muscles.—These muscles are situated on the outer side of the fibula, and are named respectively the peroneus longus and brevis. a. The peroneus longus arises from the outer surface of the fibula along its upper half. The fibres terminate in a penniform manner upon a tendon, which runs through a groove behind the outer ankle, then along the outer side of the os calcis, and lastly, through a groove on the under surface of the os cuboides into the