429 MUSCULAR FASCIA. cate here and there with each other, and this more especially over the patella.* 15. Muscular fascia.—Let us now remove the subcutaneous structure, in order to examine the muscular fascia, or what is com- monly called the " fascia lata" of the thigh. The general purpose of this fascia is to clothe the muscles of the thigh collectively, and to form separate sheaths for each; so that it not only packs them up together, but maintains each in its proper position. We shall see the partitions when we come to separate the muscles: it is suffi- cient to mention at present that a knowledge of them is practically important, because they interfere with the progress of deep-seated matter towards the surface, and cause it to burrow in this or that direction according to the part in which it forms. The fascia is by no means of equal strength all round the thigh. As one might expect, it is strongest in the most exposed parts; e. g. it is comparatively thin and transparent on the inner side, but exceedingly thick and strong all down the outer side: here, indeed, it has the appearance of a dense expanded tendon, strap- ping down the vastus m tern us muscle; and it certainly performs the office of a tendon, for we shall presently see that it gives inser- tion to two powerful muscles,—namely, the tensor fascise femoris, and the glutseus maxim us. But what are its attachments ? In a general way, it may be said that it is attached to the margin of the bones which constitute the framework of the lower extremity. For instance, beginning from above, we could, if the parts were exposed, trace its attach- ment along the crest of the ilium, thence along the crural arch to the body of the pubes, and so on down the border of the pubic arch. Proceeding down the thigh, we should find that it pene- trates, on either side of the limb, to the linea aspera, forming what are called the "intermuscular septa," which separate the extensor from the flexor muscles. Below we trace it all round the knee- joint, where it is particularly strong, especially on the outer side, and find that it is attached into the head of the tibia and the fibula. Here let us leave it for the present. * Some authors even speak of a " patellar plexus" of nerves.