no SUPERFICIAL NERVES OE THE NECK. varieties should be remembered the more especially, consider- ing the immediate proximity of the vein to the parts concerned in the operation of laryngotomy and tracheotomy. 4. Superficial absorbent glands are sometimes found near the larger cutaneous veins of the neck. They are of small size, and escape observation unless enlarged by disease. One or two are situated over the sterno-mastoid muscle; others about the mesial line. They receive the absorbents from the front and sides of the neck, and their efferent vessels are connected with the deep cervical glands. 5. Superficial branches of the cervical plexus of nerves.—We must now trace a number of cutaneous nerves which are observed ramifying beneath the platysma. They are the superficial branches of the cervical plexus, and their dissection requires considerable care, since they are imbedded in dense cellular tissue. The plexus itself from which they arise cannot now be seen: it is situated near the transverse processes of the upper cervical vertebrae, and is formed by the union of the anterior branches of the four upper cervical nerves. It lies upon the scalenus posticus and the levator anguli scapulae muscles, and is covered by the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid. Its superficial branches, which we are now about to examine, emerge from behind the sterno-mastoid, and ramify in various directions. They may be divided into ascending, descending, and transverse, a. The ascending branches, commonly two in number, are the auriculo-parotidean and the occipitalis minor. The auriculo-parotidean, the larger of the two, is derived from the second and third cervical nerves, and ascends obliquely over the sterno-mastoid muscle, near the posterior border of the external jugular vein, towards the space between the angle of the jaw and the ear; in other words, towards the surface of the parotid gland. Near the gland it divides into two or more principal branches, of which the anterior is distributed to the integument of the gland and the side of the cheek ; the posterior ascends to the cartilage of the ear, and ramifies chiefly upon its occipital surface. Other filaments communicate in the substance of the parotid gland with ^ranches of the portio-dura, or facial nerve.