45 FRONT OF THE FORE-ABM. muscle of the forearm. It arises from the upper two-thirds of the anterior surface of the ulna, and from the same extent of its internal surface up to the olecranon, so that its origin embraces the inser- tion of the brachial is anticus; it arises also from the aponeurosis which is attached to the posterior edge of the ulna, from the inner two-thirds of the interosseous ligament, and sometimes by a few fibres from the inner edge of the radius. The muscle, covered on its inner side by the aponeurosis con- nected with the flexor carpi ulnaris, divides about the middle of the fore-arm into three or four muscular slips, which terminate in as many broad, flat, tendons. These tendons lie upon the same plane, and pass beneath the annular ligament under those of the superficial flexor, into the palm. On the first phalanx of the fin- gers, the tendons of the deep flexor perforate those of the superficial, and are inserted into the base of the third or ungual phalanx of the fingers. The tendons receive muscular fibres on their under surface quite down to the wrist. Those of the ring and little fingers are gene- rally connected with each other, but that of the index finger is almost always distinct from the rest, and therefore capable of in- dependent action. The flexor profundus bends the last joint of the fingers. 65. The flexor longus pollicis is situated on the front surface of the radius, on the same plane with the last muscle. It arises by delicate fleshy fibres from the front surface of the radius, comprising the space between the tubercle and the pronator quadratus, also from the interosseous membrane, and often by a slip from the coronoid process of the ulna. Its flat tendon makes its appearance high up in the muscle, receives fleshy fibres on its under and outer surface as low as the wrist, and proceeds beneath the annular ligament to the last phalanx of the thumb. 66. The square muscle at the lower end of the radius and ulna is called the pronator quadratus, and may be exposed by separating the tendons of the muscles last described, which pass over it; it arises from the internal border and the anterior surface of the lower fourth of the ulna; its fibres pass nearly transversely outwards, and are inserted into the anterior surface of the lower fourth of the ra-