221 DISSECTION OP THE HEART. 129. Pulmonary or semilunar valves.—These consist of three membranous folds situated at the orifice of the pulmonary artery. Their convex borders are attached to the fibrous ring at the root of the artery; their free or floating edges present a doubly festooned border, in the centre of which there is a little cartila- ginous body called the "nodulus," or " corpus Arantii." The use of these little bodies is very obvious. Since the valves are semilunar, when they fall together they could not exactly close the artery; there would be a space of a triangular form left between them in the centre, just as there is when we put the thumb, fore, and middle fingers together. This space is filled by the little bits of cartilage, so that the septum becomes complete. As already mentioned, the valves are composed of a duplicature of the delicate endocardium, or lining membrane of the heart. But since this would not of itself be sufficiently strong, we find between the folds a thin layer of fibrous tissue, which is prolonged from the tendinous ring at the orifice of the artery. It is to be observed, however, that this layer of fibrous tissue reaches the free edge of the valve at three points only; namely at the centre, or corpus Arantii, and at each extremity. Between these points it stops short, and leaves a crescent-shaped portion of the valve thinner than the rest, and consisting simply of endocardium. This crescent- shaped portion is called by some anatomists the " lunula;" but it is not wholly without fibrous tissue, for we notice that a thin ten- dinous cord runs along its free edge for the purpose of giving it additional strength to resist the impulse of the blood ; just in the same manner that sails are strengthened by cords along their edges, that they may not be torn by the action of the wind. Behind each of the valves the artery bulges somewhat outwards, so as to form three slight dilatations called the "sinuses of Valsalva." These, we shall presently see, are more marked at the orifice of the aorta. The action of these valves is exceedingly obvious. During the contraction of the ventricle the valves lie against the side of the artery, and offer no impediment to the current of blood ; during its dilatation, the elasticity of the distended artery would tend to force back the column of blood, but that the valves, being caught by the