449 GLUTEAL MUSCLES. wards, and are inserted thus :—the anterior two-thirds terminate on a strong broad tendon which plays over the great trochanter, and forms part of the aponeurosis on the outside of the thigh; the remaining third is directly inserted into the femur, along the ridge leading from the linea aspera to the great trochanter. This muscle is one of those mainly concerned in raising the body from the sitting to the erect position, and in maintaining it erect. The glutseus jnaximus should be reflected from its origin, and the best way to do so is to begin at the front border, which overlaps the glutseus medius. But this dissection is difficult, and he who undertakes it for the first time is almost sure to damage the subja- cent parts. The numerous nutrient vessels which enter its under surface must necessarily be divided. Supposing the object accom- plished, what have we exposed beneath ? The muscle covering the ilium is the glutseus medius. At the posterior border of this we find the several objects which come out of the pelvis through the great ischiatic notch—namely, the pyriformis muscle, above which is the trunk of the gluteeal artery with the glut seal nerve, and below which are the greater and lesser ischiatic nerves, the ischiatic artery and the pudic artery and nerve. Coming through the lesser ischiatic notch, we see the tendon of the obturator interims, and tacked on to it are the little gemelli muscles, the one above, the other below it. Extending from the tuber ischii to the great tro- chanter is the quadiatus femoris. Lastly, where the tendon o£ the gluteeus maximus plays over the trochanter major, there is a large bursa, simple or multilocular. We have seen it in some subjects sufficiently capacious to hold half a pint of fluid. All these objects must now be severally examined. 46. Gluteus medius.—This muscle arises from the surface of the ilium, between the crest and the upper curved line, and also from the strong fascia which covers it towards the front. The fibres converge to a tendon which is inserted into the upper and outer surface of the great trochanter, and there is generally a bursa between it and the bone ; but some of the anterior fibres—those, namely, in immediate connection with the tensor fasciae,—termi- nate on the aponeurosis of the thigh.