136 BRANCHES OP THE EXTERNAL CAEOTID. between them; namely, the styloglossus and the stylo-pharyngeus muscle, the stylohyoid ligament, and the glossopharyngeal nerve. The external carotid is accompanied by small veins which form a plexus around it. From the view now obtained of the relations of the external carotid it is obvious that a ligature could be placed around it with greater facility in the first than in any other part of its course. The line of the external incision should correspond with the front border of" the sterno-mastoid. Nothing more would be necessary than to divide the platysma and the cervical fascia ; but after ail, the chief obstacle would be caused by the confluence on the front of the artery of the facial, lingual, and other large veins, which in all probability would be distended with blood. Of course due care should be taken not to include in the ligature the superior laryngeal nerve which crosses obliquely underneath the artery. 30. Branches of the external carotid.—Exclusive of the tem- poral and the internal maxillary, its two terminal arteries, the carotid commonly gives origin to six separate branches; of these, three, namely the superior thyroid, the facial, and the lingual, run forwards; two, the occipital and the posterior auricular, proceed backwards; and one, the ascending pharyngeal, runs upwards by the side of the pharynx. They commonly arise in the order in which they will be here described. 31. Superior thyroid artery.—This is usually the first branch of the external carotid. It arises from its inner side a little below the greater cornu of the os-hyoides, forms a slight curve with the convexity upwards, and then descends beneath the omo-hyoid, sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid muscles, to the upper and front surface of the lateral lobe of the thyroid body, in which its branches are principally distributed, inosculating freely with the inferior thyroid. Superficial in the first part of its course, it is afterwards more deeply seated. But we would especially call attention to the passage of the artery over the upper and front part of the lobe of the thyroid body, because its pulsation is of material service in distinguishing a bronchocele from other tumors. The branches of this artery are as follows :-—