joints of the Fingers. 104 There are six distinct synovial membranes, proper to the lower end of the radius, and the several bones of the carpus :— a. One between the lower end of the radius and the ulna. h. One between the radius and the first row of carpal bones. c. One between the trapezium and the metacarpal bone of the thumb. d. One between the cuneiform and pisiform bones. e. One between the first and second rows of carpal bones, (the intercarpal joint.) This extends to the metacarpal bones of the fore and middle fingers. f. One between the unciform bone and the metacarpal bones of the little and ring fingers. 163. Joints between the metacarpal bones and the phalanges of the fingers.—The first phalanx of the finger presents a shallow oval cavity, crusted with cartilage, with the broad diameter in the transverse direction, to articulate with the rounded cartilaginous head of the metacarpal bone, of which the articular surface is elongated in the antero-posterior direction, and of greater extent on its palmar than its dorsal aspect. This for- mation of parts permits flexion of the finger to a greater degree than extension ; and also a slight lateral movement. Each joint is provided with two strong lateral, and a palmar or glenoid ligament. The lateral ligaments arise from the tubercles on either side of each metarcarpal bone, and inclining slightly forward, are inserted into the sides of the base of the first phalanx of the finger. The palmar or glenoid ligament. This name is applied to a thick, compact, fibro-cartilaginous structure, which extends over the palmar surface of the joint. Inferiorly, it is firmly attached to the base of the first phalanx of the finger; superiorly, it is loosely adherent to the rough surface above the head of the metacarpal bone. On either side it is inseparably connected with the lateral ligaments, so that with them it forms a strong capsule over the front and sides of the joint. Its superficial surface is slightly grooved, to receive the flexor tendons; its deep surface is adapted to cover the head of the metacarpal bone. Two sesamoid