STRUCTURE OF THE LUNGS. 230 have no communication with the air-vesicles unless the latter be ruptured by excessive straining, and then this intermediate tissue may become inflated with air, and thus give rise to the form of disease called "interlobular emphysema." It is also in some cases rendered more obvious by being the seat of a serous effusion, constituting (( anasarca" of the lungs. Each lobule receives a small bronchial tube proportionate to its size, which divides and subdivides in its substance into smaller branches. Thus minutely reduced in size, the walls of the tubes no longer present any traces of cartilaginous tissue, but are com- posed of a delicate elastic membrane upon which the capillaries ramify in a very minute network. Each tube finally leads into an irregular passage, from which proceed on all sides numerous and closely arranged dilatations or sacculi: these are the air-cells. The cells themselves present a number of shallow depressions, separated by somewhat prominent partitions, so that their interior surface has rather a honeycomb appearance. The purpose of this is evidently to increase the extent of surface upon which the capil- laries may ramify; and it is interesting to know that the structure of the minute air-cell of the human lung is in all respects similar to the large respiratory sac of the reptile. 142. Pulmonary vessels.—The branches of the pulmonary artery successively divide and subdivide in company with the bronchial tubes, inosculating very little in their course. Their ultimate rami- fications spread out in such vast profusion over the air-cells, that when successfully injected the lung appears a mass of the finest network of blood-vessels. This network is so close that the inter- stices are even narrower than the vessels, which are on an average about 301QOth of an inch in diameter. It need scarcely be men- tioned that the blood and air are not in actual contact. Nothing, however, intervenes but the wall of the cell and the capillary vessel, the which structures are so delicate as to oppose no obstacle to the free interchange of gases by which the blood is purified. The most complete purification of the blood takes place in that single layer of capillaries which is situated in the folds of mem- brane projecting into the cell; for it must be obvious that in this situation both sides of these vessels are exposed to the action of the