373 BRANCHES 01? INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. sacral artery. It gives branches to the pyriformis, the bladder, and rectum, and others which enter the sacral foramina for the supply of the cauda equina. But the artery is always of small size, and sometimes absent. c. The gluteal is by far the largest branch. It passes almost .immediately out of the pelvis through the great ischiatic notch, above the pyriformis muscle, aud then divides into branches for the supply of the great muscles of the buttock. These we follow in the dissection of the thigh. d. The obturator artery runs along the side of the pelvis, below the corresponding nerve, to the upper part of the obturator foramen, and then, passing through it, is distributed to the muscles of the thigh. While in the pelvis it gives off a small branch to the iliacus muscle, and another which ramifies on the back of the pubes. But the obturator artery does not in all subjects take the course above stated. It often arises from the external iliac near the crural arch, or else by a short trunk in common with the epigastric. Under these circumstances, in order to reach the obturator fora- men, it generally descends on the outer side of the femoral ring. Instances, however, every now and then occur, where it makes a sweep round the inner side of the ring ; so that three-fourths of the ring, or, what comes to the same thing, of the mouth of a femoral hernia, would in such a case be surrounded by a large artery.* e. The ischiatic artery is somewhat smaller than the glutseal. It proceeds over the pyriformis and the sacral plexus, to the lower border of the great ischiatic notch, through which it passes out of the pelvis to the buttock, where it will be followed hereafter. f. The pudic artery is destined to supply the perineum and the penis. It passes out of the pelvis through the greater ischiatic notch, below the pyriformis, crosses the spine of the ischium, and re-enters the pelvis through the lesser notch. It then ascends on the inner side of the obturator internus muscle towards the pubic arch, where it gives off branches to the several parts of the penis. * The museum of St. Bartholomew's Hospital contains two examples of double femoral hernia in the male, with the obturator arising on each side from the epigastric. In three out of the four ruptures the obturator runs on the inner side of the mouth of the sac. (See Preparations 55, 69, Series 17.)