ANATOMY OF THE SMALL INTESTINE. 415 ing vessel, which commences, not, as was formerly supposed, by an open mouth, but by a closed end near the summit of the villus. Lastly, they are covered by a layer of cylindrical epithelium, like all the rest of the intestinal mucous membrane. To see this we must take the specimen from a fasting animal; for the epithelium is thrown off during digestion, so that the naked villus comes in contact with the food. c. There are three kinds of glands* in the small intestines, named, after their respective discoverers, the glands of Lieberkuhn, Brunn, and Peyer. The first are distributed over the whole tract of the mucous membrane ; the two last only over particular parts. d. The glands of Lieberkiihnf are simply minute tubes, with blind ends, very thickly distributed over both the small and the large intestines. With a microscope,—for they are invisible to the naked eye,—we see their orifices between the villi, like so many minute dots, as if the surface had been pricked with needles. In a vertical section we should observe their depth, and that they are lined by a columnar epithelium. e. The glands of Brunn% are found only in the duodenum. They are just visible to the naked eye, and may be seen to the best advantage by removing the muscular coat. Their structure exactly resembles the pancreas, on a diminutive scale. f. The glands of Peyer % abound most in the ileum. Their chief peculiarity is, that they are arranged in groups on that part of the intestine most distant from the attachment of the mesentery. These groups are generally from one to two inches long, and of an oval form; but it should be observed that they increase both in size and number as we approach the lower part of the ilium. If a group be examined by dissecting away the muscular coat, we find * A satisfactory examination of the intestinal glands can be made only in specimens quite recent, taken from young persons who have died suddenly, or from a rapidly fatal disease. f J. N. Lieberkuhn, Diss, de fabric, et actione villorum intestin. tenuium, 1782. % J. C. Brunn, Gland, duoden. seu pancreas secundarium, 1715. § Peyer, De glandulis intestinorum, 1682.—But these glands were de- scribed by our countryman, Nehemiah Grew, in 1681.