113 CERVICAL FASCIA. It occupies the interval between the sterno-mastoid muscles, divides on either side to form a sheath for each, and is continued back- wards as a single layer to the spines of the cervical vertebrae. This same layer covers the supra-clavicular fossa, encloses the posterior portion of the omo-hyoid muscle, and is firmly con- nected to the clavicle. The deep layer of the fascia, inseparably connected with the superficial on the front of the larynx, is attached to the posterior part of the sternum and the cartilage of the first rib; consequently there is, immediately above the sternum, an interval between the two layers of the fascia, which contains more or less fat and cellular tissue, and often one or two small absorbent glands. On either side the deep layer encloses the muscles in front of the larynx and trachea, and forms the sheath of the great vessels of the neck; from thence it is continued outwards beneath the clavicle, over the scalene muscles, the subclavian vessels and nerves, into the axilla. Besides its more general purpose of forming sheaths for the several structures of the neck, there are one or two other points of view in which the cervical fascia should be regarded. It will be readily understood how the firm attachment of its layers to the sternum, the first rib, and the clavicle, forms a kind of fibrous barrier at the upper opening of the chest, which supports the softer parts of the neck, and prevents them from yielding to the pressure of the atmosphere during inspiration. Dr. Allan Burns* was the first to point out this important function of the cervical fascia, and has recorded a case exemplifying the effects which result from its destruction by disease. Moreover, we shall subsequently find that the great veins at the root of the neck, namely, the internal jugular, subclavian, and innominate, are so closely united by means of the cervical fascia to the adjacent bones and muscles, that when divided they do not collapse, but gape. They become, as the French express it, " canalisees," and are in consequence in a better condition to resist the pressure of the atmosphere, which would tend to render them * Surgical Anatomy of the Head and Neck.