BRACHIAL PLEXUS OF NERVES. 152 on the left in the vena innominata. But deviations are frequently met with. 4@jt Deep cervical.—This artery arises from the subclavian close to the preceding; very frequently there is a trunk common to both. It passes to the back of the neck between the first rib and the transverse process of the last cervical vertebra, and mounts up between the complexus and the semi-spinalis colli supplying these muscles. 50. Subclavian vein.—This vein, a continuation of the axillary, has an equal extent with the corresponding artery. It should be observed that it does not form an arch like the artery, but that it proceeds more nearly in a straight line over the surface of the first rib to its junction with the internal jugular. Consequently through- out its whole course it is situated on a plane anterior to and a little lower than the artery, from which it is separated by the anterior scalene muscle, the phrenic and pneumo-gastric nerves, and a thin layer of fascia. 51. Brachial plexus of nerves.—The large nerve-cords forming the plexus which supplies the nerves of the upper extremity are the anterior divisions of the four lower cervical nerves, and of the greater part of the first dorsal. Emerging from the inter-vertebral foramina they appear between the anterior and middle scalene muscles, and proceed downwards and outwards with the subclavian artery beneath the clavicle into the axilla. To this bundle of large nerves taken collectively the name " plexus" is given, on account of their mutual interlacement. The plexus at its root or base is wide in extent, and situated higher than the subclavian artery, and nearly on the same plane; but in proportion as the plexus descends beneath the clavicle its several component nerves gradually converge, and finally, in the axilla, completely surround the artery by their mutual interlacement. It will be remembered that the plexus is crossed superficially by the omo-hyoid muscle, and by the supra-scapular and transversalis colli arteries. For an account of the manner in which the nerves are arranged in the formation of the plexus, see Arm, § 18. The plexus gives off above the clavicle the following nerves :— a. Nerve to subclavius muscle.—This usually proceeds from