FRONT OF THE FORE-ARM. 43 .this muscle, and lies upon the flexor profundus digitorum. About the middle third of the fore-arm, the nerve joins the ulnar artery, and runs along its inner side over the annular ligament into the palm. In the lower part of the forearm, the nerve is not quite so superficial as the artery, being more or less overlapped by the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris. Behind the internal condyle a slender filament from the ulnar nerve may sometimes be traced through the internal lateral ligament into the elbow-joint. One or two branches enter the upper part of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and another, given off a little lower down, supplies the inner half of the flexor profundus digitorum ; the outer half being sup- plied by the median nerve. Near the middle of the fore-arm, a slender cutaneous branch sometimes comes from the ulnar nerve, and divides into two fila- - ments, one of which perforates the fascia, and joins a filament of the internal cutaneous, the other accompanies the ulnar artery, and supplies the skin of the palm. a. About one inch and a half above the styloid process of the ulna the nerve gives off a large cutaneous branch to the back of the hand. It crosses obliquely under the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and, immediately below the styloid process of the ulna, appears on the back of the hand, where it divides into two branches,—of which the one runs on the inner side of the little finger, the other subdivides, to supply the outer side of the little finger, both sides of the ring, and generally half the middle finger. This branch communicates with a filament from the dorsal branch of the radial nerve. 63. Examine the median nerve. It will be found in the triangular space at the bend of the elbow on the inner side of the brachial artery. It passes between the two origins of the pronator teres, and descends along the middle of the fore-arm, lying between the flexor sublimis and the flexor profundus digitorum : the nerve then enters the palm beneath the anterior annular ligament of the carpus, and terminates by dividing into five branches for the supply of the thumb, both sides of the fore and middle fingers, and the outer side of the ring finger.