DISSECTION OF THE FEMALE PERINEUM. 390 tures, the female urethra is much more dilatable than the male/ We avail ourselves of this great dilatability in the extraction of calculi from the bladder. 83. The vagina is the canal which leads up to the uterus; at present only the orifice of it can be seer]. It is surrounded by a sphincter muscle, which is easily displayed by removing the integu- ment. The muscle is about three-fourths of an inch broad, and connected with the cutaneous sphincter of the anus in such a manner that they together form something like the figure 8. a. The hymen is a thin fold of skin which, in the virgin, extends across the lower part of the entrance of the vagina, about half an inch behind the fourchette. In most instances its form is crescent- shaped, with the concavity upwards. But there are several varie- ties of hymen : sometimes there are two tegumentary folds, one on either side, so as to make the entrance of the vagina a mere vertical fissure ;* or there may be a septum perforated by several openings (Hymen cribriformis), or by one only (Hymen circularis). Again, there may be no opening at all in it, and then it is called Hymen imperforatus. Under this last condition no inconvenience arises till puberty. The menstrual discharge must then necessarily accumulate in the vagina : indeed, the uterus itself may become distended, and to such a degree as even to simulate pregnancy, f The presence of the hymen is not necessarily a proof of virginity, nor does its absence imply the loss of it. Cases are related by writers on midwifery in which a division of the hymen was requisite to facilitate parturition. In Meckel's Museum, at Halle, are pre- served the external organs of a female in whom the hymen is per- fect even after the birth of a seven-months child. At the lower part of the orifice of the vagina there is imbedded in the loose tissue on either side a gland \ of about the size of a small pea. Each has a long slender duct, which runs forwards and * Such an one may be seen in the museum of the College, Phys. Series, No. 2843. f See Burns' Midwifery. % See Professor Tiedemann, Von den duverneyschen Driisen des Weibs. Heidelberg, 1840.