ELBOW-JOINT. 96 which is reflected over it at its attachment to the glenoid cavity, and accompanies it for two inches down the groove of the humerus. During the earlier part of foetal life it is connected to the cap- sule by a fold of synovial membrane, which subsequently dis- appears. The margin of the glenoid cavity of the scapula is surrounded by a fibro-cartilaginous band of considerable thickness, called the glenoid ligament. This not only enlarges the cavity, but renders it a little deeper. Superiorly, it is continuous on either side with the tendon of the biceps; inferiorly, with the tendon of the triceps : in the rest of its circumference it is attached to the edges of the cavity. Observe that the cartilage covering the head of the humerus is thicker at the centre than at the circumference. The reverse is the case in the glenoid cavity. The synovial membrane lining the under surface of the capsule is reflected around the tendon of the biceps, and passes with it, in the form of a cul-de-sac, down the bicipital groove. On the inner side of the joint it always communicates with the bursa beneath the tendon of the subscapularis. The shoulder-joint has a more extensive range of motion than any other joint in the body : it is, in fact, a kind of universal joint. It is capable of motion forwards and backwards; of adduction, abduction, circumduction, and rotation. 155. EIbow-joint.—Detach the brachialis anticus from the anterior, and the triceps from the posterior surface of the capsule of the joint. Remove the tendons attached to the condyles without injuring the lateral ligaments. The elbow-joint is a perfect hinge. The larger sigmoid cavity of the ulna is accurately adapted to the trochlea upon the lower end of the humerus, admitting of simple flexion and extension; while the shallow excavation upon the head of the radius admits not only of flexion and extension, but also of rotation upon the rounded articular eminence (capitellum) of the humerus. The joint is secured by an anterior, a posterior, and two strong lateral ligaments. No ligament is attached to the head of the radius,