335 ARTERIES OF THE VISCERA. 27. The superior mesenteric artery descends beneath the pan- creas and over the transverse part of the duodenum, and then runs between the layers of the mesentery towards the right iliac fossa, where it terminates in branches for the supply of the coecum. Thus its course describes a gentle curve from left to right. The left or convex side of the curve gives off a series of branches (from ten to sixteen) to the small intestines; while the concave side lurnishes the right colic and the middle colic arteries for the sup- ply of the large intestines. a. Now we should trace the branches to the small intestines, in order to see the beautiful series of arches which they form by their mutual inosculations. There are three or four tiers of them, each tier smaller than the preceding. The ultimate branches ramify in circles round the intestine. This circular arrangement of the vessels in the coats of the bowel is practically interesting, because it enables one in almost all cases to distinguish the intestine from the hernial sac. b. The colic branches of the superior mesenteric are—the right colic, which proceeds towards the ascending colon, and the middle colic, which ascends between the layers of the mesocolon to the arch. They are arranged after the same plan as those of the small intestines ; that is, they inosculate so as to form a series of arches which successively decrease in size, and finally terminate in circles round the bowel. We remember that the superior mesenteric vein joins the splenic behind the pancreas, and forms the vena portse. 28. Inferior mesenteric artery,—In order to trace this artery, the small intestines must be drawn over towards the right side. It is given off about two inches above the bifurcation of the aorta.* Descending into the pelvis over the left common iliac artery, it passes between the layers of the meso-rectum, and, taking the name of superior hemorrhoidal, is finally distributed to the upper part of the rectum. Its branches are—1. the colica sinistra, which sup- plies the descending colon; 2. the sigmoidea, which supplies the sigmoid flexure. These inosculate in the form of arches. The colica sinistra, too, forms a large arterial arch with the colica media,