INFERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. 181 whilst the other portion confers only common sensibility upon the parts to which it is distributed. The nerve, then, composed as above stated of sensitive and motor filaments, emerges from the skull through the foramen ovale as a single thick trunk, under the name of the inferior maxillary. It lies directly external to the Eustachian tube, from which it is separated by the so-called pterygo-spinous ligament; and it is covered by the external pterygoid muscle, which should be turned on one side to expose it. Immediately after its exit from the skull the nerve divides into its several branches ; some, destined for the muscles, contain motor as well as sensitive fila- ments ; others are purely sensitive, namely the temporo-auricular, the inferior dental, and the gustatory. Let us first consider the muscular branches. A. a. Branches, two or more, to the temporal muscle. These pass outwards close to the bone, and ascend in company with the temporal arteries into the substance of the muscle. A few slender filaments perforating the muscle and its aponeurosis, communicate with filaments of the superficial temporal, the facial, and the lacrymal nerve. b. The branch to the masseter muscle passes outwards above the external pterygoid muscle, and then through the sigmoid notch of the jaw (§ 78). c. Branch to the internal pterygoid and tensor palati muscles. —This nerve is rather difficult to find. It proceeds from the inner side of the main trunk, and then descends between the internal pterygoid and the tensor palati muscles, supplying both of them. d. The buccal branch passes forwards either above or between the fibres of the external pterygoid, to the outer surface of the buccinator muscle, where we find it spreading out into a number of diverging filaments, which supply the skin, the mucous mem- brane and glands of the cheek, and also the muscle itself, with common sensibility. The motor power of the buccinator, be it remembered, is derived from the facial (see § 73, A, c). This is proved not only by careful dissection, but also by the fact that it loses its power of contraction when the facial nerve is paralysed;