MEMBRANES OF THE BRAIN. 485 The inferior longitudinal sinus is of small size, and som etimes absent. Strictly speaking, it is not a sinus, but rather a small vein inclosed in the lower edge of the falx cerebri. It terminates in the straight sinus at the anterior margin of the tentorium. The straight sinus may be considered as the continuation of the preceding. It runs along the line of junction of the falx cerebri with the tentorium cerebeili, and terminates at the divergence of the two lateral sinuses. It receives the two " vena Galeni" which return the blood from the lateral ventricles of the brain. The cavernous sinus, so called because its interior is intersected by numerous bands, giving it a cellular appearance, extends along the side of the body of the sphenoid bone, just outside the internal carotid artery. It receives the ophthalmic vein, which leaves the orbit through the foramen lacerum orbitale. The cavernous sinuses on each side communicate through two small sinuses which extend transversely, the one in front of, the other behind the pituitary fossa. Collectively, they form what is called the circular sinus. The petrosal sinuses lead from the cavernous to the lateral. There are two on each side. The superior runs along the upper edge of the petrous bone ; the inferior along the suture between the petrous and the occipital bones. The transverse sinus extends from the one inferior petrosal to the other, across the basilar process of the occipital bone. The occipital sinuses are two in number, and very small. They run along the attached edge of the falx cerebeili, and open into the divergence of the lateral sinuses.* Arachnoid membrane.—It is this second investment which forms the smooth surface of the brain exposed after the removal of the * The meeting of the several sinuses opposite the spine of the occipital bone is commonly termed the " torcular Herophili" after the celebrated anatomist who first described it. It is a kind of triangular reservoir, with the base below, and presents six openings—namely, that of the superior lon- gitudinal sinus, those of the two lateral and of the two occipital, and that of the straight sinus. The term " torcular" is an insorrect version of the original word (ja>\\v (a canal or gutter), employed by Herophilus.