382 STRUCTURE OP THE URETHRA. unless the canal be forcibly stretched contrary to their direc- tion.* If the urethra, in the adult, be laid open from end to end, we find that the canal is not of uniform calibre throughout, but that there is a difference in its width according to the structure of the parts which surround it. In its passage through the glans it is a little constricted, and, during life, admits of less dilatation than elsewhere, owing to the dense structure and higher sensibility of this part of the penis. From the glans the urethra gradually increases in width, for about three and a half inches down ; it then decreases as it approaches and passes under the pubic arch, so that the mus- cular portion is in appearance the narrowest part of the canal. But though the muscular part of the canal appear in its natural state narrower than the rest, yet it is demonstrable, by making casts of the urethra (e. g. with wax, fusible metal, or cold paint), that this part greatly exceeds the rest of the canal in its dilatability. Under such circumstances it is distended into a large oblong sinus measuring from one inch and a quarter to one inch and three-quarters in length, and in its transverse diameter, at the broadest part, rather more than half an inch. The narrowest part of the canal, as shewn by such casts, is at the junction of the muscular with the prostatic.f These diversities in the dimensions of the urethra do not exist in early life. A cast taken from a young child measures uniformly about one-fifth of an inch. The change which takes place in the muscular part of the urethra at the age of puberty is simultaneous with the development of the accessory organs of generation, to the secretions of which it serves as a receptacle, until acted on by the muscles which surround it. * In a well injected urethra we observe that the ridges of the folds possess very fewblood-vessels, while the furrows between them are exceedingly vascular. For the demonstration of this fact the author is indebted to Mr. Quekett. f These statements are at variance with the opinion of Sir E. Home, Bell, Bichat, and most modern authors, who consider that the bulbous part of the urethra is the most dilatable, and that the most constricted part is at the junction of the bulbous and muscular. Any one, however, who will be at the trouble to repeat the accurate experiments performed by Mr. Briggs, may convince himself of the truth of what is asserted in the text.—See Briggs, On the Treatment of Strictures of the Urethra, &c. London, 1845.