PARTS CONCERNED IN INGUINAL HERNIA. 317 derstood, is nothing more than the fascia which lines the transverse muscle. For many reasons it is most advantageous to examine it from behind; we should therefore turn down a triangular flap of the abdominal wall, just as was done with the aponeurosis of the external oblique. On the inner surface of the flap, thus reflected, is the smooth peritoneal lining of the abdomen. If the parts be all kept toge- ther and made as tense as natural, we may notice that the perito- neum is raised into a sort of fold by a thick fibrous cord,* which runs up rather obliquely towards the umbilicus. This cord, is no- thing but the impervious remains of the umbilical artery. If the peritoneal fold be well marked, it appears triangular with the base below, and occasions two pouches one on either side of it. The depth and distinctness of these pouches, it need hardly be said, will be in proportion to the prominence of the fold itself; on the other hand, if it so happen that the cord be closely attached to the abdominal wall, then there will be no fold or pouch at all.f To proceed, then, with our subject, the peritoneum must be re- moved from the abdominal flap. This is done easily enough, for it is loosely connected to the abdominal wall by an abundance of soft cellular tissue, which generally contains a considerable quan- tity of fat. A tissue of a similar kind connects the peritoneum to the iliac region; and this accounts for the facility with which the peritoneum can be extended so as to envelop even the largest herniae. The fascia lining the under surface of the transverse muscle was first accurately described by Sir A. Cooper, and called by him the fascia transversalis. It is attached to the line of the crural arch, thence ascends, and is gradually lost on the under * We must take care not to confound the cord in question with what is called the urachus. This is another cord, a remnant of embryonic life, which ascends from the bladder directly behind the linea alba to the umbi- licus. f These peritoneal pouches are considered to favour the occurrence of hernia, and so much importance has been attached to them by some conti- nental surgeons, that they have divided inguinal herniae into external and in- ternal, according as the protrusion takes place in the outer or the inner fossa.