PERITONEUM. 327 only facilitates their movements, but maintains each in its proper place, and connects them together in such a manner that they never become disarranged. Although its texture is thin, and ap- parently delicate, yet it is so tough, that if a portion of it were removed and stretched across a hoop, it would support a weight of from forty to fifty pounds without giving way. That it is elastic too, is proved by the rapidity with which it recovers itself after being distended by dropsy, pregnancy, hernia, &c. The plan of the peritoneum is like that of all other serous membranes; that is, it forms a closed sac, one part of which lines the containing cavity, the other the contained organs. These are respectively termed the parietal and the visceral layers. There is nothing between them,—or, in other words, inside the sac, but just sufficient moisture to lubricate its smooth and polished surface. The viscera, then, are all outside the sac. Some lie altogether behind it, as, e.g. the pancreas and kidneys; others push the visceral layer before them, so as to give rise to membranous folds; and the greater the fold, the greater, of course, will be the mobility of the viscus which occasions it. The vessels and nerves ot the viscus must run up to it through the fold, for they can get to it in no other way. We had better, in the next place, make ourselves acquainted with the names of the several folds which connect the viscera either to each other or to the back of the abdomen, This done, we should then endeavour to trace the peritoneum as a coniinuous membrane. a. Mesentery.—This is the great fold which connects the small intestines to the back of the abdomen. To see it we ought to raise the omentum and the transverse arch of the colon. We may then observe that its attached part or root extends from the left side of the second lumbar vertebra across the spine to the right iliac fossa. The loose part of the mesentery curves, as it were, like a ruffle, and encloses the small intestine from the beginning of the jejunum to the end of the ileum. Between its layers, there are the mesenteric vessels, nerves, and glands. b. Transverse meso-colon.—This is the broad fold which con- nects the transverse colon to the back of the abdomen. It forms