57 PALM OF THE HAND. wrist joint. It communicates always with the synovial sheath of the long flexor tendon of the thumb, in most cases with that of the flexor tendons of the little finger, and but rarely with that of the index, middle and ring fingers. On this account, inflammation of the theca of the thumb or little finger, is more liable to be attended with serious consequences than either of the others. 85. The lumbricales, four slender muscles, one for each finger, are attached to the tendons of the flexor profundus in the palm. They are distinguished as first, second, third, and fourth, counting from the index finger, and all of them arise from the radial side of the deep flexor tendon of their corresponding finger : the third and fourth generally arise from the adjacent sides of two tendons. Each little muscle terminates in a broad thin tendon which passes over the radial side of the first joint of the finger, and is inserted into the expansion of the extensor tendon on the back of the finger. Their action is not satisfactorily determined; they may probably be of use in bending the first joint of the fingers. The number of these muscles is not always constant; it may be increased by one, in which case one finger, usually the ring, has two muscles, one on either side; or it may be diminished by one; sometimes one of them divides, so as to send a tendon to the opposite sides of two fingers. 86. Muscles constituting the ball of the thumb.—The most superficial of these is a broad flat muscle, the abductor pollicis. It arises from the os scaphoides, from the superficial fibres of the anterior annular ligament, and from an expansion derived from the tendon of the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. It is inserted by a flat tendon into the base of the radial side of the first phalanx of the thumb. A small bursa is sometimes found beneath its tendon. Its action is to draw the thumb forwards and inwards away from the index finger. 87. Reflect the abductor pollicis from its insertion. A strong and thick muscle lies beneath it, called the flexor ossis metacarpi, or opponens pollicis. It arises from the os trapezium and the anterior annular ligament, and is inserted by fleshy fibres into the whole length of the radial side of the metacarpal bone of the D 2