SUBMAXILLARY REGION. 129 companies the posterior portion of the digastricus. It arises by a fiat tendon from the outer surface of the styloid process of the temporal hone. The muscular fibres generally divide, so as to embrace the tendon of the digastricus, and, reuniting, are inserted into the upper part of the body of the os-hyoides near the greater cornu. Its action is to raise and draw back the os-hyoides. The posterior portion of the digastricus and the stylo-hyoideus derive their nerves from the facial, or portio dura; whereas the anterior portion of the digastricus is supplied by the mylo-hyoidean nerve, a branch of the third division of the fifth pair. 20. Submaxillary salivary gland.—This gland is situated between the two portions of the digastricus. In the ordinary position of the head it is partiajly concealed by the ramus of the jaw, but when the head falls back the gland is necessarily moie exposed. It is about the size of a large chestnut, and is divided by deep fissures into several lobes. Its upper margin, thick and convex, is covered by the ramus of the jaw; its lower margin is thinner, and overlaps the side of the os-hyoides. Its cutaneous surface is smooth and flat, but the lobes on its deep surface are more irregular, and are often continuous with those of the sub- lingual gland. By raising the gland we find that it lies upon the mylo-hyoideus, the hyo-glossus, and the tendon of the digastric muscle, and a small portion of the hypoglossal nerve, which is seen above the tendon. The duct of the gland (named after its discoverer Wharton's duct*) passes ofif from its under surface round the border of the mylo-hyoideus, and then running forwards above that muscle, opens into the mouth in the centre of a papilla by the side of the frsenum linguae. In length it is about two inches; but it is not of equal dimensions throughout, being considerably dilated about the middle, and very much contracted at the orifice. We sometimes observe in our own person that saliva, collected in the dilated portion of the duct, is spirted to a considerable distance * Thorn. Wharton, Adenographia, seu glandularum totius corporis de- scriptio. 12mo. Amstel. 1659.