THE UPPER ARM. 27 sends branches to the coracobrachial is and the short head of the biceps, and, as it descends between the biceps and brachialis anticus, it supplies several branches to each. It usually sends a communi- cating branch in the middle of the arm, to the median nerve. A slender branch of the external cutaneous sometimes runs along the outer side of the brachial artery down to the elbow, and sup- plies the skin. A filament has been traced into the foramen on the inner side of the humerus, in company with the nutrient artery of the medulla. In some instances the external cutaneous nerve descends on the inner side of the coraco-brachialis without perforating the muscle : in these cases it often sends a larger branch than usual to the median nerve. The trunk of the external cutaneous nerve may come from the median at any point between the axilla and the middle of the arm. In some subjects the nerve is absent,—all its branches are then supplied by the median, which is larger than usual. Such ano- malies are easily explained by the fact of the two nerves having always a common origin. 35. The internal cutaneous nerve is smaller than the external, and arises from the plexus by a common trunk with the ulnar and inter- nal root of the median, on the inner side of the axillary artery. It descends on the inner side of the brachial artery, but more super- ficially. About the middle or the lower third of the arm it per- forates the fascia, generally in company with the basilic vein, be- comes subcutaneous, and divides into two or more principal branches, which run along the ulnar side of the fore-arm to the wrist. In its course flown the arm, the internal cutaneous usually gives off one or two slender filaments, which supply the skin covering the biceps muscle. A filament of the internal cutaneous nerve has been traced in company with a branch of the inferior profunda artery into the articu- lar end of the humerus, immediately above the internal condyle. In some rare instances, the internal cutaneous, at its origin, is situated on the outer side of the axillary artery; in such cases, it crosses over the brachial artery near the middle of the arm.