314 • parts Concerned in inguinal hernia. EXAMINATION OF THE PARTS CONCERNED IN INGUINAL HERNIA. 7. Presuming that the reader has proceeded so far in the exa- mination of the abdominal wall, we now recommend him to turn his especial attention to the anatomy of the parts through which an inguinal hernia may protrude. The testicle, originally formed in the lumbar region, subse- quently passes through the wall of the abdomen into the scrotum: its nutrient apparatus and excretory duct, drawn down after it, col- lectively constitute the spermatic cord; and the passage through which it conies from the ahdomen is called the inguinal canal. This canal is not direct, but oblique, evidently that the abdominal wall may be more likely lo resist protrusion of the viscera. Now we have seen that the wall of the abdomen is composed of strata of different structures; and we shall presently find that the spermatic cord, as it passes successively through each stratum, derives from each a covering similar in structure to the stratum itself. Of these strata there are only three : the first—that is, the aponeurosis of the external oblique,—we shall call the aponeurotic stratum; the second—that is, the internal oblique and transverse muscles,—we shall call the muscular stratum; the third—namely, the fascia which lines the under surface of the transverse muscle,—we may, for want of a better name, call the fascial stratum. The most in- telligible way of investigating the subject is to examine each stratum as it appears on dissection, and then to consider the in- guinal canal as a whole. First, then, of the aponeurotic stratum. 8. Aponeurotic stratum.—We are already familiar with the aponeurosis of the external oblique, and that its lower border, ex- tended from the spine of the ilium to the spine of the pubes, con- stitutes the crural arch. It remains for us now to examine more in detail the opening in the aponeurosis which gives passage to the spermatic cord ; in other words, the external abdominal ring, or the lower aperture of the inguinal canal. This ring, then, is situated immediately above and to the outer side of the spine of the