98 RADIO-CARPAL JOINT. Divide the ligament longitudinally, to see its attachment to the borders of the lesser sigmoid cavity. Synovial membrane of the elbow-joint.—Open the joint by a transverse incision through the anterior ligament, and observe the relative adaptation of the cartilaginous surfaces of the' bones. The synovial membrane lines the interior of the capsule, and forms a cul-de-sac between the head of the radius and its orbicular ligament. It is widest and most loose under the tendon of the triceps. Where the membrane is reflected from the bones upon the ligaments, there is more or Less adipose tissue, particularly in the fossae on the front and back part of the lower end of the humerus. Observe that the head of the radius is in contact with the humerus only when the elbow-joint is flexed. 156. The interosseous ligament or membrane is an aponeurotic septum, which is stretched across the interval between the bones of the fore-arm, and of which the chief purpose is to afford an increase of surface for the attachment of muscles. The septum is deficient be- tween the upper ends of the bones, in order to permit free rotation of the radius : it is also sometimes deficient between the lower ends. The fibres of which it is composed extend obliquely downwards from the ridge of the radius to the opposite ridge of the ulna. It is broader in the middle than at either end, and is perforated by several small vessels, but more especially by the dorsal branch of the anterior interosseous artery (see § 67). The name of round or oblique ligament is given to a thin band of ligamentous fibres, which extends obliquely between the bones of the forearm in a direction contrary to those of the interosseous membrane. It is attached, superiorly, to the front surface of the ulna, near the outer side of the coronoid pro- cess ; inferiorly, to the radius immediately below the tubercle. A bursa commonly intervenes between it and the insertion of the tendon of the biceps. This ligament is rendered tense by supina* tion of the radius. 157. Radio-carpal or wrist-joint.—This joint is formed by the lower end of the radius, which articulates with the scaphoid