BRANCHES OF THE EXTERNAL CAROTID. 139 but at the anterior border of the muscle we find the artery ascend- ing, beneath the nerve, to the under surface of the tongue. The branches of the lingual artery are— a. The hyoid, a small artery which runs along the upper border of the os-hyoides, supplying the muscles. b. The dorsales linguae, small branches which ascend under cover of the hyo-glossus to supply the back of the tongue and the tonsils. c. The sublingual usually arises near the anterior border of the hyo-glossus, and ascending divides into several branches, some of which supply the sublingual gland; others, the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth, and the gums on the inner surface of the lower jaw. A branch (the artery of the frsenum) generally inos- culates above the frsenum linguae with a corresponding one from the opposite side; this is sometimes wounded in the operation of dividing the frsenum in children, especially when the practical rule of directing the point of the scissors downwards and backwards is neglected. The sublingual is sometimes a branch of the facial artery. The lingual artery is accompanied by two veins, which form, by their frequent communications, a kind of plexus around it. They commonly terminate in the internal jugular, but sometimes in the facial or the superior thyroid. Upon attentive consideration of the parts, it will readily suggest itself that a ligature might be placed around either the superior thyroid or the lingual artery, in the first part of their course, with- out dividing more than the platysma and the cervical fascia. Nevertheless, considering the importance of the large vessels and nerves in the neighbourhood, the operation in either case is one of great nicety, and requires accurate anatomical knowledge. The best guide to the superior thyroid would be the ascending cornu of tbe thyroid cartilage. The best guide to the lingual would be the apex of the cornu of the os-hyoides. The artery is placed about two or three lines above the cornu, a little below the hypoglossal nerve ; and behind the artery in most cases is the superior laryngeal nerve. It need scarcely be observed that the above-mentioned h2