76 MUSCLES OF THE SHOULDER. the outer and posterior part of the humerus, commencing at a point below the insertion of the teres minor, and descending down to the middle of the hone ; also from the upper two-thirds of the external intermuscular septum. The third or internal head arises from the inner and posterior part of the humerus, commencing at a point below the teres major, and extending down to the elbow; also from the internal inter- muscular septum. The precise origin of these heads from the humerus may be ascertained by following the superior profunda artery and musculo-spiral nerve, which intervene between them. The three portions of the muscle terminate upon a broad tendon, which covers the back of the elbow-joint, and is inserted into the summit and sides of the olecranon ; it is also connected with the fascia on the back of the fore-arm. Between the tendon and the olecranon is placed a bursa, commonly of small size, but some- times so large as to extend upwards behind the capsule of the joint : in some rare instances, a communication has been seen between them. The tendon of the triceps commences as a broad expansion high up in the muscle, and is subcutaneous for several inches above the elbow. It receives the muscular fibres of the long head chiefly along the inner part of its superficial surface, nearly down to the olecranon. The fibres of the external head terminate upon the higher part of its deep surface, and those of the internal head upon the lower part. A few of the muscular fibres are implanted di- rectly into the olecranon, and some of them pass behind the external condyle to the back of the fore-arm, and are inseparably united with a muscle called the anconeus. The action of the triceps is to extend the fore-arm. By dividing the triceps transversely a little above the elbow, and turning down the lower portion, it will be observed that some of the muscular fibres which arise from the humerus above the fossa for the olecranon terminate upon the capsule of the joint. They have been described by some anatomists as a distinct muscle, under the name of subanconeus; their use is to draw up the capsule, so that it may not be injured during extension of the arm. The