64 MUSCLES OF THE BACK CONNECTED WITH THE ARM. 105. The latissimus dorsi is a broad flat muscle which occupies the lumbar and the lower half of the dorsal region, and thence ex- tends to the arm, where it forms part of the posterior boundary of the axilla. It arises by tendinous fibres from the posterior third of the external margin of the crest of the ilium, from a broad aponeurosis in the lumbar region called the fascia lumborum, from the spinous processes of the six inferior dorsal vertebrae, beneath the trapezius, and, lastly, from the three or four lower ribs by fleshy digitations, which correspond with those of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen. The upper fibres pass almost transversely outwards over the inferior angle of the scapula; those lower down ascend, gradu- ally increasing in obliquity, while those which arise from the ribs are nearly vertical. In this way, all the fibres converge towards the axilla, where they form a thick muscle, which folds beneath the teres major, and is inserted by a broad flat tendon into the bottom of the bicipital groove of the humerus. The tendon is about two inches broad, and lies in front of that of the teres major, from which it is separated by a large bursa. Its lower part receives the transverse muscular fibres, and its upper part those which are more vertical, so that the muscle has a somewhat twisted appear- ance at the axilla. The tendon sends off an expansion to the fascia of the arm. The latissimus dorsi often receives a distinct accessory slip from the inferior angle of the scapula. Action.—It draws the humerus inwards and backwards : it also co-operates with the pectoralis major in pulling any object towards the body: if the humerus be the fixed point, it will raise the body, as in the act of climbing. The tranverse fibres of the mus- cle keep the inferior angle of the scapula in proper position. It sometimes happens that the scapula slips above the muscle: this displacement is readily recognized by the unnatural projection of the lower angle of the bone, and the impaired movements of the arm. Between the base of the scapula, the trapezius, and the upper border of the latissimus dorsi, a triangular space is observed in certain positions of the arm, in which the lower fibres of the rhom- boideus major, and part of the sixth intercostal space, are exposed. -