47 PALM OF THE HAND. in reflecting the skin, observe the peculiar structure of the subcuta- neous tissue. Over the ball of the little finger and the distal ends of the meta- carpal bones, the subcutaneous structure is composed of a very dense filamentous cellular tissue, which contains numerous pellets of fat, forming a kind of elastic cushion. This structure is prolonged down the fingers to their extremities : it is less developed over the ball of the thumb and in the palm of the hand, where the skin is closely connected to the subjacent palmar fascia. Numerous openings will be observed in the fascia for the trans- mission of cutaneous vessels and nerves, which come from the superficial palmar arch. Be careful not to remove a small cutaneous muscle, the pal- maris brevis, which is situated at the upper and inner part of the palm. 70. In the dense cellular tissue over the anterior annular liga- ment of the carpus, will be found the superficial palmar branch of the median nerve; it is derived from the median above the an- nular ligament, over which it passes into the palm of the hand, and subdivides into numerous cutaneous filaments : it is often joined by small branches from the radial and external cutaneous nerves. 71. Examine the palmar fascia. This membrane has a silvery lustre, and, in the centre of the palm, is remarkably dense and strong; it is divided into three portions, a central,—by far the most conspicuous; an external, covering the muscles of the thumb; and an internal, covering the muscles of the little Auger. From the deep surface of the fascia two fibrous septa dip down, so as to divide the palm into three separate compartments; one for the ball of the thumb, a second for that of the little finger, and a third for the centre of the palm. The fascia is formed in great part by an expansion of the tendon of the palmaris longus, but is also materially strengthened by fibres from the anterior annular ligament. In cases, therefore, where the palmaris longus is absent, the palmar fascia is not necessarily deficient. The central portion of the fascia is triangular in form with the