410 ANATOMY 01? THE KIDNEY, The pelvis, or common receptacle of the kidney, is but the dilated beginning of the ureter. It is somewhat funnel-shaped, and its broad part divides into two principal tubes, which again bianch out and form from eight to twelve cup-like excavations (called the calices). Into each of these calices one, or sometimes two, papillae are seen projecting. The renal artery proceeds to the kidney between the vein in front-, and the ureter behind, and divides into five or six branches, which, again subdividing, make their way between the pyramids to the cortical substance. Their minute ramifications terminate in one of two ways,—either in plexuses round the tubes, or in what are called the Malpighian bodies. If we examine with a microscope a portion of a minutely in- jected kidney, we observe that the cortical substance is full of red round knots, formed by the coils of minute blood-vessels: these are the Malpighian* bodies. They are, on an average, about x^oth of an inch in diameter. According to the recent researches of Mr. Bowman,f each is loosely surrounded by a flask-like capsule, formed by the dilatation of the beginning of a urinary tube. The continuation of the tube passes off from that part of the capsule most remote from where the artery entered, and, after making many convolutions, finally enters one of the pyramids, and so discharges its contents. The vein returning the blood from the Malpighian body leaves the capsule close to where the artery entered, and then, instead of going out of the kidney, as in other organs, forms a capillary plexus round the convolutions of the tube. The special purpose of this plexus appears to be the secretion of the solid matter of the urine ; while the Malpighian body filters, so to speak, the watery part of the urine into the capsule, and washes the more solid part down the tube. % pyramidal arrangement of the tubes. But in the kidneys of the lower mam- malia, of birds and reptiles, the lobes are permanently separate. * So named after Malpighi, a celebrated Italian anatomist who lived during the middle and latter part of the seventeenth century. f See his paper in the Philosoph. Trans, for 1842, Part I. % That the vessel leaving the Malpighian body is a vein, and that a con- stituent part of the urine is secreted by venous blood, is inferred from two