108 PLATYSMA MYOIDES. by drawing down the corner of the mouth. If the entire muscle be permanently contracted, it may occasion wry-neck, though it is true that distortion arising from such a cause is an exceedingly rare occurrence. A genuine case in point is related by Mr. Gooch,* in which a complete cure was effected, after the failure of all ordinary means of relief, by the division of the muscle a little below the jaw. The Platysma myoides belongs to a class of muscles called cutaneous, from their office of moving the skin. In man they are not observed, except upon the neck and face, and there is a little one (palmaris brevis) in the palm of the hand. To understand their use thoroughly we must refer to the lower orders of animals, in whom they fulfil very important functions, not only by moving the skin itself, but also its appendages. For instance, by muscles of this kind the hedgehog, porcupine, and animals of that family can roll themselves up, and erect their quills: we are all familiar with the broad "panniculus carnosus" on the sides of herbi- vorous quadrupeds, which enables them to twitch their skins and thus rid themselves from the annoyance of insects. In birds, too, these muscles are extremely numerous, each feather having appropriate muscles to move it. Divide the platysma across the middle of the neck, and reflect the upper and the lower portion, f Beneath it is exposed the general fibrous investment of the neck, called the cervical fascia. Upon this fascia are observed the superficial branches of the cervical plexus of nerves; the external jugular vein, crossing the sterno- cleido-mastoideus muscle, and a smaller vein in front called the anterior jugular. These superficial veins are subject to such varieties both in their size and their course, that a general descrip- tion only is applicable. The following is their most frequent arrangement:— 4 2. External jugular vein.—This superficial venous trunk is observed crossing the sterno^mastoid muscle. It receives the * Chirurg. Works. f The more experienced anatomist, who may wish to dissect the minute ramifications of the cutaneous system of nerves, will do well to trace them through the transparent fibres of the Platysma, without reflecting it.