488 LOBES OF THE BRAIN* nothing but itself is seen when the skull-cap and dura mater are removed. It is of an oval form, with the broad end towards the back of the head. It is divided, in the middle line, by a deep longitudinal fissure, into two equal halves, technically termed the right and left hemispheres.* This fissure, we remember, is occu- pied by the falx cerebri. The surface of each hemisphere presents a number of tortuous eminences, termed " the convolutions," separated from each other by so many furrows or sulci, which re- spectively correspond to the depressions and ridges observable in the cranial bones. Many of these furrows are occupied by the larger veins in their course to the sinuses; others are filled by sub-arachnoid fluid. In old age, or in cases of disease where the convolutions are shrunk and atrophied, this fluid sometimes accumulates in considerable quantity, giving rise to the " watery brain." The convolutions themselves are merely folds of the brain for the purpose of increasing the extent of surface upon which may be laid the grey or vesicular nerve substance,.now generally admitted to be the source of power. They are not precisely alike on both sides* Their number, disposition, and depth, vary a little in diffe- rent individuals, and, to a certain extent* may be considered as an index of the degree of intelligence.f The under surface of each cerebral hemisphere is not only con- voluted like the upper, but presents in addition three lobesa which * Examples are now and then met with where the longitudinal fissure is not exactly in the middle line; the consequence of which want of symmetry is, that one hemisphere is larger than the other. Bichat (Reeherches Physio- iogiques sur la Yie et la Mort, Paris 1829) was of opinion that this anomaly exercised a deleterious influence on the intellect. It is a remarkable facts that the examination of his own brain after death so far went to prove the error of his own doctrine. f Those who wish to investigate the cerebral convolutions in their simplest form in the lower classes of mammalia, and to trace them through their suc- cessive complications and arrangement into groups as we ascend in the higher classes, should consult M. Leuret, Anatomie Comparee du Systeme Nerveux considered dans ses Rapports avec Intelligence, Paris 1839 ; also M. Foville, Traite de l'Anat. du Systeme Nerveux, &c, Paris, 1844.