ANATOMY OF THE SPLEEN. 408 capsule, which must of necessity be elastic to accommodate itself to the varying size of the organ. This capsule not only covers the outside of it, but also sends down into the interior numerous threads, which cross each other in various directions, and form a kind of network, dividing the spleen into so many mutually communicating chambers. Moreover, it is interesting to observe that at the points where the bands cross they are secured by a small white knot. Besides constituting the general framework of the organ, the cap- sule provides the vessels with sheaths which support them through- out their ramifications in the interior. Now the splenic chambers are filled by what is called the pulp of the spleen. This is a soft reddish brown substance, which may be easily scraped off with the knife. If a portion of it be examined under the microscope, we find that it consists entirely of gland cells of a pale yellow colour, and somewhat smaller than the cor- puscles of the blood. Here and there, however, in the pulp are found other larger cells, of a white colour and perfectly spherical form.* Attention was first directed to them by Malpighi, and they have therefore been called after him the "Malpighian bodies." They are not free like the smaller cells, but attached, each by a slender pedicle, to one of the threads. The pedicle contains a small artery, which ramifies over the surface of the cell, and then terminates in a brush of capillaries which spread out in the pulp. The interior of the cell is filled with a clear fluid and a multitude of smaller cells, so that in point of fact it is but a closed sac, con- taining secreting elements. With regard to the manner in which the blood-vessels are dis- tributed, we observe that the splenic artery enters the spleen by several branches, which ramify throughout the organ supported by sheaths derived from the capsule.f These ramifiations, however, * In the human spleen they are about inch in diameter. But it is use- less to look for them unless the subject be exceedingly fresh, for they soon soften and melt in the pulp. It is better, therefore, to examine them in the spleen of a sheep or bullock, in which animals they are about inch in diameter. f The ramifications of the splenic artery may be well seen by washing away the pulp, and floating the then flocculent-looking spleen in water.