diss; ction of the mammary gland. 541 The cochlear nerve divides into filaments, which run through the canals of the modiolus, and then along those of the lamina spiralis, in order to terminate upon the membranous part of this lamina. The precise manner in which the filaments terminate is still dubious : according to Breschet,* they communicate and form a series of minute arches. Respecting the other nerves, little more need be said than that their ultimate ramifications are lost upon the vestibular sac and upon the ampullae of the semicircular canals : some of them, how- ever, pass into the sac, and come into contact with the otoconies, or ear-dust, in its interior. The internal auditory artery—a branch of the basilar—runs with the auditory nerve to the bottom of the meatus, and divides into branches corresponding with the divisions of the nerve. Its ulti- mate ramifications terminate, in the form of a fine network, on the membranous labyrinth, and on the spiral lamina of the cochlea. The auditory vein pours its blood into the superior petrosal sinus. DISSECTION OF THE MAMMARY GLAND. The form, size, position, and other external characters of the mammary gland, are sufficiently obvious. We would merely ob- serve that the longest diameter of the gland is in a direction upwards and outwards towards the axilla; that the thickest part is at the centre; and that the fulness and roundness of the gland depend upon the quantity of fat which is situated about it and between its lobes. Its deep surface is flattened in adaptation to the pectoral muscle, to which it is loosely connected by an abundance of cel- lular tissue. It is inclosed by a fascia which not only supports it as a whole, but penetrates into its interior, so as to form a kind of framework for its several lobes: hence it is that, in cases of mammary abscess, the matter is apt to be circumscribed and not diffused. * Rechevches Anat. et Phys. sur l'Organe de l'Ouie, &c. (Mem. de 1'Acad, de Med. t. v. fasc. in. 1836).