PLANTAR ARTERIES AND NERVES. 467 forwards between the abductor pollicis and the flexor brevis digi- torum to the interval between the first and second toes, where it terminates in small inosculations with the digital arteries. Its chief use is to supply the muscles between which it runs. b. The external plantar is the principal artery of the sole, and alone forms the plantar arch. It runs obliquely outwards across the sole towards the base of the fifth metatarsal bone, and then, sinking deep from the surface, bends inwards across the bases of the metatarsal bones, and inosculates with the anterior tibial in the first interosseous space. In the first or oblique part of its course, it lies between the flexor brevis digitorum and the flexor accesso- rius; in the second or transverse part it lies very deep beneath the flexor tendons, and the adductor pollicis muscle,—in fact, close to the metatarsal bones. Deeply seated as it appears at first sight to be, a part of its curve near the fifth metatarsal bone lies immediately beneath the fascia. Here it might be more easily tied than in any other part of its course. Its chief branches are the four digital arteries, which arise in the arched part of its course. They supply both sides of the fifth, fourth, third, and the outer side of the second toe; the great toe, and the inside of the second, being supplied, we remember, by the dorsalis hallucis. Concerning the distribution of the digital arte- ries, we must refer to the account given of the analogous arteries in the hand; for they are in all respects similar. Besides the digital arteries, the arch gives off small branches, which ascend between the metatarsal bones and inosculate with the dorsal interosseous arteries. 92. Plantar nerves.—The posterior tibial nerve divides, like the artery, into an external and internal plantar. The internal divi- sion is generally the larger, and supplies nerves to three toes and a half, like the median nerve in the palm. It also supplies the muscles on the inner side of the sole. The external plantar sup- plies nerves to the fifth toe and the outer side of the fourth, like the ulnar in the palm. Besides these, however, it furnishes nerves to the abductor minimi digiti, and the flexor accessorius, and a con-. siderable branch which accompanies the plantar arch for the supply of the adductor pollicis and the interossei.