208 VENA AZYGOS. THORACIC DUCT. in front of it, and nearer to the mesial line, is the oesophagus. Its branches will be presently described. 113. Vena azygos.—This vein commences in the abdomen by small branches from one or more of the lumbar veins, and generally communicates with other veins in this region—namely, the renal, supra-renal, phrenic, or even the vena cava itself. It enters the chest through the aortic opening of the diaphragm, and ascends on the right side of the aorta through the posterior mediastinum; nearly on a level with the third dorsal vertebra, it arches forwards over the right bronchus, and terminates in the superior vena cava. In its course it receives the eight or nine lower intercostal, the oesophageal, and commonly the right bronchial veins. It may be observed that these several veins correspond to the branches of the descending thoracic aorta; and we may regard the azygos trunk itself as a kind of supplement to the vena cava, placed in the chest for the purpose of receiving them. a. But another vein, called " vena azygos minor," in contradis- tinction to the preceding which is called the " major," runs for the same purpose along the left side of the spine ; so that the term " azygos" would seem to be misapplied. This vein commences in the abdomen by small branches, and ascends with the aorta along the left side of the spine. On a level with the sixth or seventh dorsal vertebra, it passes beneath the aorta and joins the azygos major. It receives the five or six lower intercostal veins of the left side. None of these veins are provided with valves. 114. Thoracic duct,—This duct will be found close to the spine, in the cellular tissue between the aorta and the vena azygos. Although it is generally about the size of a crow-quill, it may be easily overlooked on account of the delicacy and transparency of its coats. It is the main channel through which the chyle from the intestines, and the contents of the absorbents from the greater part of the body, are conveyed into the blood. If we trace it into the abdomen, we find that it is formed by the confluence of the absorbent vessels from the intestines and the lower limbs. One of these tributary trunks, and occasionally the duct itself, presents a dilatation more or less marked in different instances, called the " receptaculum chyli." From this receptacle it is advisable to