LIGAMENTS OF THE METACARPUS. 103 the ring finger has also two, proceeding from the os magnum, and the unciform bone. That of the little finger has one only, from the unciform bone. The palmar ligaments are arranged nearly upon the same plan. The metacarpal bone of the forefinger has one, from the trapezoid bone. That of the middle finger has three, proceeding from the trapezium, the os magnum, and the unciform bone. Those of the ring and little fingers have each one, from the unciform bone. Besides the preceding ligaments, there is another of consider- able strength, called the interosseous. It arises from the adjacent sides of the os magnum and the os unciforme, descends vertically, and is fixed into the ulnar side of the metacarpal bone of the middle finger. This ligament isolates the synovial membrane of the two inner metacarpal bones from the common synovial mem- brane of the carpus. Separate the metacarpal bones from the carpus, by dividing the dorsal ligaments, and observe the relative form of their contiguous cartilaginous surfaces. The metacarpal bones of the fore and middle fingers are adapted to the carpus in such an angular manner as to be very slightly immoveable. The metacarpal bone of the ring finger, having a plane articular surface with the unciform bone, admits of more motion. But a still greater degree of motion is permitted between the unciform bone and the metacarpal bone of the little finger; the articular surfaces of each being slightly con- cave and convex in opposite directions. The greater freedom of motion of the metacarpal bone of the little finger is obviously essential to the expansion and contraction of the palm. The carpal extremities of the metacarpal hones of the fingers are connected with each other by transverse ligaments, both on their dorsal and their palmar surfaces. They are also connected by interosseous ligaments, which extend between the bones, imme- diately below their contiguous cartilaginous surfaces. The digital extremities of these bones are connected by the transverse metacarpal ligament (see 149, a). The bones of the carpus and metacarpus should be separated from each other, in order to examine more thoroughly the form of their articular surfaces and their interosseous ligaments.