LACHRYMAL SAC AND DUCT. 286 cells are so disposed that the secretion from their interior will, by its own gravity, pass into the nose. But this is not the case with the sphenoid and the maxillary cells ; to empty which it is neces- sary that the head be inclined on one side. To see all these openings, we must, of course, raise the respective turbinated bones. 233. The inferior meatus extends nearly along the whole length of the outer wall of the nose. By raising the lower turbinated bone, we observe, towards the front of the meatus, the termination of the nasal duct, through which the tears pass down from the lachrymal sac into the nose. This sac and duct we may now con- veniently examine. 234. Lachrymal sac and duct.—These, together, constitute the passage through which the tears are conveyed from the lachrymal canals into the nose (see § 62, d). The lachrymal sac occupies the excavation on the nasal side of the orbit, formed by the lachry- mal and superior maxillary bones. The upper end is round and closed; the lower gradually contracts into the nasal duct, a tube about half an inch long. A slight constriction marks the point where the sac terminates and the duct begins. When the duct is obstructed, either from thickening of its lining membrane or from various diseases in the surrounding parts, the sac becomes distended by the tears, and forms a conspicuous tumor at the inner angle of the eye. The sac is composed of a strong fibrous membrane which adheres very closely to the bone, and is lined by mucous mem- brane. Its front surface is covered by the tendo oculi and the fascia proceeding from it (see § 58). The direction of the nasal duct is downwards and backwards. Its termination is generally guarded by a valvular-like fold of mucous membrane; consequently, when air is blown into the nasal passages while the nostrils are closed, the lachrymal sac does not, in most persons at least, become distended. Behind the inferior turbinated bone is seen the opening of the Eustachian tube (see § 157). Into this, as well as into the nasal duct, we ought to practise the introduction of a probe. The chief difficulty, in our first attempts, is to prevent the probe from slipping into the cul-de-sac between the tube and the back of the pharnyx.