C AUDI AC PLEXUS. 215 Having finished the examination of the contents of the posterior mediastinum, we should replace the lung and turn our attention once more to the great vessels at the root of the heart. We have also to examine the cardiac plexus. Let us begin with the pulmo- nary artery. 122. Pulmonary artery.—This vessel carries the impure blood from the heart to the lungs. It proceeds from the right ventricle, crosses obliquely in front of the root of the aorta, and on the left side of that vessel divides into two branches, one for each lung. The right branch passes through the arch of the aorta to the right lung; the left is easily followed to its corresponding lung by dis- secting off its investing layer of pericardium. Draw towards the left side the first part of the arch of the aorta, and dissect the serous layer of the pericardium from the great vessels at the base of the heart. By this proceeding a good view will be obtained of the trachea and its bifurcation into the two bronchi. Below the division of the trachea the right pulmonary artery is seen passing in front of the right bronchus. The superior vena cava is seen descending in front of, and nearly at right angles to, the right pulmonary artery. The vena azygos is also seen arching over the right bronchus and terminating in the vena cava. It will be necessary to remove a number of absorbent glands called the bronchial, of which the larger are found at the angle of bifurcation of the trachea. The situation of these glands in the midst of so many tubes explains the variety of symptoms which may be pro- duced by their enlargement. 123. Cardiac plexus of nerves.—The nerves of the heart are derived from the pneumogastric and from the cervical ganglia of the sympathetic. A very general description of them will suffice, be- cause they are subject to very great variety. It is essential to know that most of these nerves converge towards the posterior part of the arch of the aorta. Here they form an intricate plexus called the "great cardiac," and in it we may recognise two or more ganglia. The precise situation of this plexus is between the trachea and the arch of the aorta, and above the bifurcation of the pulmonary artery. One or more cardiac nerves, usually from the left side, pass in front