483 MEMBRANES OE THE BRAIN. The little partition which separates the lobes of the cerebellum is called the falx cerebelli. It is placed vertically in the same line with the lalx cerebri, and its point is attached to the edge of the foramen magnum. Sinuses of the dura mater.—It is one of the peculiarities of the cerebral circulation that the blood is returned through canals or sinuses formed by the dura mater. These canals are produced by a separation of the two layers* of which the dura mater is com- posed, together with a corresponding groove on the inside of the skull. They are lined by the same smooth membrane as the rest of the venous system. Since their walls consist of such unyielding structure, and are always on the stretch, it is obvious that they are admirably adapted to resist the pressure of the brain. There are about fifteen of these sinuses, and all eventually discharge their blood through the internal jugular veins. Their arrangement will be best understood by referring to a dried preparation in which they are injected with coloured wax. Their names and position are as follows:— The superior longitudinal sinus runs along the upper edge of the falx cerebri. It begins very small at the crista galli, gradually increases in size in its course backwards, and opposite the tubercle of the occipital bone divides into the right and left lateral sinuses, the right being in general the larger. Besides the numerous veins from the cancellous texture of the skull-cap, the superior longitudinal sinus receives large veins from each hemisphere of the cerebrum. It is interesting to observe that these veins run from behind for- wards, contrary to the current of blood in the sinus, and that they * The dura mater consists of two layers united by cellular tissue ; of these, the external one forms the internal periosteum of the bones of the skull. In the vertebral canal the separation between the two layers is perfect; but, at the foramen magnum, the spinal dura mater and the periosteum of the verte- bral canal meet together, so as to form in the skull but a single membrane. In some animals, where the thickness of the bones constituting the cranial arch is very remarkable, as in some of the whale tribe, the external layer of the dura mater is exceedingly vascular. See some observations by Dr. Knox, in the Lancet of the 19th October, 1839.