82 BACK OF THE FOEE-AUM. on the back of the hand. They are subject to great variety. The tendon of the index finger is commonly free ; it is situated on the radial side of the proper indicator tendon, and becomes united with it at the metacarpal joint. The tendon of the middle usually receives a slip from that of the ring finger. The tendon of the ring finger generally sends a slip to the tendons on either side of it, and in some cases entirely furnishes the tendon of the little finger. Thus the ring finger is incapable of independent extension. The tendon of the little finger ordinarily sends a slip to the next tendon, and unites at the metacarpal joint with the radial border of the extensor proprius minimi digiti. Action.—It is not only a general extensor of the fingers, but it can extend some of the phalanges independently of the rest: e. g. it can extend the first phalanges while the second and third are flexed ; or it can extend the second and third phalanges during flexion of the first. !35. The extensor digiti minimi or auricularis is a long slender muscle situated between the extensor digitorum communis and the extensor carpi ulnaris. It arises from the common tendon from the external condyle, from the septa between it and the contiguous muscles, and from its own fascial covering. Its slender tendon of insertion continues to receive fleshy fibres nearly down to the annular ligament, beneath which it passes, immediately behind the joint between the radius and ulna, in a special sheath lined by synovial membrane. At the first joint of the little finger, the tendon is joined by that of the common extensor, and both expand upon the dorsal surface of the first and second phalanges, terminating in the same manner as the extensor tendons of the other fingers. 136. The extensor carpi ulnaris is situated along the ulnar border of the back of the fore-arm. It arises from the com men tendon from the external condyle, from the middle third of the posterior surface of the ulna, from the septum between it and the extensor minimi digiti, and from the aponeurosis of the fore-arm. The fibres descend longitudinally down the posterior border of the ulna, and terminate upon a strong broad tendon, which commences