DISSECTION OF THE EYE. 527 of them unite and form arches. When the pupil is contracted these fibres are of course stretched, and vice versa. Whether they co-operate in producing the dilatation of the pupil is uncer- tain. The contractile power of the iris depends upon what are now generally admitted by anatomists to be muscular fibres of the non- striped kind, arranged in a radiating and circular manner. The radiating converge towards the pupil; the circular are aggregated round the pupillary margin.* When minutely injected, the iris appears to be composed almost entirely of blood-vessels ;j- so much so that some anatomists con- sider it to be a kind of erectile tissue, and that its power of con- tracting and expanding depends upon this property alone. Its blood-vessels are derived from two sources—the posterior or long, and the anterior or short ciliary arteries. The posterior perforate the sclerotica round the optic nerve, and then run on upon the choroid to the iris ; the anterior proceed from the tendons of the recti, and perforate the sclerotica round the margin of the cornea. It is from the enlargement of these latter vessels that the red zone round the cornea is produced in inflammation of the iris. The nerves of the iris, twelve or thereabouts in number, proceed from the lenticular ganglion, and from the nasal branch of the ophthalmic division of the fifth pair. They perforate the back of the sclerotica like the arteries, and run along the choroid to the iris. Until about the seventh or eighth month of foetal life, the pupil is closed by a delicate membrane, termed " membrana pupillaris" Its vessels are arranged in loops, which converge towards the centre of the pupil. It has been lately discovered that this mem- brane, which has always been regarded as a distinct structure, is * The circular fibres of the iris in the bird are of the striped variety, and discernible without difficulty. f In well-injected preparations one may see that the chief blood-vessels are disposed in two circles on the front surface of the iris—one near the outer, the other near the inner circumference.