356 SUPERFICIAL PERINEAL VESSELS AND NERVES. which cover the bulb of the urethra and the crura of the penis. The bulb of the urethra lies in the middle line of the perineum, and is covered by a strong muscle, called the accelerator urinse. The crura penis are attached, one to each side of the pubic arch, and are covered each by a muscle called the erector penis. Very commonly, a narrow slip of muscle, called the trans versus perinei, extends on either side from the tuber ischii to the central tendinous point of the perineum. This point is about equidistant from the anus and the bulb of the urethra, and serves for the fixation of muscular fibres from all quarters of the perineum. If the direction of the preceding muscles be clearly understood, it will be observed that they describe on each side a triangle, of which the sides are formed by the accelerator urinse and the cms penis respectively, and the base by the transversus perinei. Across this triangle there run up from base to apex the superficial perineal vessels and nerves. These we must notice before the description of the muscles. 47. Superficial perineal vessels and nerves.—The superficial perineal artery proceeds from the main pudic trunk as it runs up the inner side of the pubic arch; and, though we cannot see the trunk, we can easily feel it by pressing the ringer against the bone. The artery comes into view a little above the level of the anus, and then passes up the perineal triangle, distributing numerous cuta- neous branches in its course, and is finally lost on the scrotum. But its largest branch is a muscular one, called the transversalis perinei, This is given off near the base of the triangle, and runs towards the central point of the perineum. It is necessarily divided in the first incision in lithotomy, and deserves attention, because it is sometimes of considerable size. The artery is accompanied by two veins, which are frequently dilated and tortuous, especially in diseased conditions of the scrotum. Respecting the nerves, it need only be mentioned that they are derived from the internal pudic, follow the course of their corre- sponding arteries, and give off similar branches. They not only supply the skin of the perineum and scrotum, but each of the perineal muscles.