311 ABDOMINAL MUSCLES. can be done without injuring its aponeurosis or the crural arch. In this way the second muscular stratum will be exposed. b. The internal oblique is attached to the outer half of the crural arch, to the anterior two-thirds of the crest of the ilium, and indirectly to the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae, by means of a thin aponeurosis which cannot at present be seen. From these several attachments the fibres ascend more or less obliquely, and are inserted partly into the abdominal aponeurosis and partly into the cartilages of the three or four lower ribs.* The internal oblique should be detached from the ribs, from the loins, and from the crest of the ilium; but that portion of it connected to the crural arch must not for the present be disturbed. In removing the internal oblique, we are very apt to cut away at the same time the transversalis. To avoid this mistake we should dissect near the crest of the ilium, and endeavour to find an artery which runs between the muscles, and serves as a guide. TTiis artery, called the deep circumflexa ilii, proceeds from the external iliac, and is intended for the supply of the abdo- minal wall. We notice that it skirts the crest of the ilium, giving off branches of considerable size to the muscles. Beneath the in- ternal oblique, then, We bring into view the transversalis, and the continuations of the intercostal nerves and vessels. These it is de- sirable to preserve. c. The transversalis arises from the outer half of the crural arch from about the anterior two-thirds of the crest of the ilium, from a fascia attached to the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae, and, lastly, from the inner surfaces of the six or seven lower costal cartilages, by as many digitations which correspond with those of the diaphragm; but these cannot at present be seen. From this manifold origin the fibres proceed horizontally forwards, and termi- nate in the abdominal aponeurosis. d. The rectus extends perpendicularly along the front of the belly, and is enclosed in a sheath formed by the collective aponeu- roses of the lateral muscles of the abdomen. To expose the muscle, * The internal oblique represents in the abdomen the internal intercostal muscles of the chest.