POSITION AND I'ORM OV THE LUNGS. 204 Though it maintains the organ in its proper situation, yet is it sufficiently large to allow its perfect freedom of motion. In front it is overlapped, especially during inspiration, by the thin margin of the lungs, excepting at the lower part and to the left of the mesial line ; that is, in the neighbourhood of the fifth costal car- tilage. On either side it is covered by the mediastinal layer of the pleura; and behind it is the so-called posterior mediastinum. In structure it consists of an external fibrous and an internal serous layer, and is therefore called a fibro-serous membrane. The fibrous layer, constituting the chief strength of the sac, is intimately con- nected with the central tendon of the diaphragm, and superiorly is gradually lost upon the great blood-vessels of the heart. The internal or serous layer not only lines the fibrous, and that part of the tendon of the diaphragm which supports the heart, but is also reflected over the great vessels and the surface of the heart itself. Thus it forms a completely shut sac, of which the inner surface is smooth and polished, and constantly moistened by a small quantity of serous fluid to facilitate the movements of the heart. By lifting the heart out of the pericardium, we at once see the manner in which the serous layer p reflected over the great vessels at its base. It covers the front part of the ascending aorta to the extent of two inches or more; also part of the superior vena cava and the pulmonary veins, especially on the left side. The inferior cava receives scarcely any covering from this membrane, since it opens into the right auricle almost immediately after passing through the tendon of the diaphragm. 109. Position and form of the lungs,—The lungs occupy the greater part of the chest, and are placed one on either side of the heart. Each is fastened in its appropriate cavity by the bronchial tube and the pulmonary vessels, forming what is appropriately called the root of the lung. Now the lung exactly fills the cavity in which it is placed, and their respective surfaces, always in mutual contact, are covered by a continuation of one and the same serous membrane, disposed like all others of the kind ; that is, having lined the cavity it is reflected over the contained organ. The free surface of this membrane, called the pleura, is everywhere smooth and polished, and lubricated by a serous moisture. In an