144 SUPRA-CLAVICULAR REGION. brachial plexus are seen emerging between the scalene muscles high er up than the subclavian artery. 41. Scalene muscles,—These several muscles, so called from their fancied resemblance to a scalene triangle, are situated by the side of the neck, and extend from the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae to the first and the second ribs. Correctly speak- ing, they may be considered as intercostal muscles, since the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae are really rudimen- tary ribs. It is proposed to describe them as three separate muscles—an anterior, a middle, and a posterior; the anterior and middle are attached to the first rib, the posterior to the second. a. The scalenus anticus arises by aponeurotic slips from the anterior tubercles of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical ver- tebrae. The several slips unite to form a single muscle which descends outwards, and is inserted by a flat tendon into the upper surface of the first rib close to its inner border. A tubercle on the rib marks the point of its insertion. b. The scalenus medius, the largest of the three portions, arises by pointed slips from the posterior tubercles of the transverse pro- cesses of the six lower cervical vertebrse. The muscle descends, increasing in size, and is inserted into the upper surface of the first rib, at a little distance behind the scalenus anticus : from this last muscle it is separated by the subclavian artery and the brachial plexus of nerves. c. The scalenus posticus is the smallest of the three portions. It arises by tendinous slips from the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the two or three lower cervical vertebrae, and is inserted by a thin tendon into the second rib, between its tubercle and angle. Its insertion cannot be properly seen till the removal of the arm. Action.—The scalene muscles can either assist in raising the first and second ribs, as in a deep inspiration, or they can bend the cervical portion of the spine, according as the one or the other attachment be the fixed point. 42. Phrenic nerve.—This nerve is seen lying upon the surface of the scalenus anticus muscle. By tracing it upwards we find that it arises most commonly from the fourth and fifth, and some-