253 NERVES OF THE LARYNX. in company with the corresponding nerve, and divides into branches, which supply the muscles and the mucous membrane. The laryngeal branches of the inferior thyroid ascend behind the cricoid cartilage. A very constant artery passes through the crico-thyroid membrane to the larynx (§ 3J, d.) 169. Nerves.—The nerves which supply the larynx are derived from the pneumogastric. There are the superior and the inferior or recurrent laryngeal. These we should respectively trace. a. The superior laryngeal, having passed through the thyro- hyoid membrane, divides into several branches, which are distri- buted to the mucous membrane of the larynx, with this exception, that one of its filaments may generally be traced into the aryte- noideus muscle. Its other filaments spread out in various direc- tions ; some to the anterior and posterior surfaces of the epiglottis, and to the aryteno-epiglottidean folds of mucous membrane, others to the interior lining of the larynx and the vocal cords. A very constant filament descends behind the ala of the thyroid cartilage, and communicates with the recurrent. Its external laryngeal branch, supplying the crico-thyroid muscle, has been described (§ 32, a.) b. The inferior or recurrent laryngeal nerve, having entered the larynx beneath the inferior constrictor muscle of the pharynx, ascends behind the joint between the thyroid and cricoid cartilages. By careful dissection, we may succeed in tracing its filaments into all the intrinsic muscles of the larynx, with the exception of the crico-thyroid. It also gives a few to the lower part of the pharynx. If the recurrent nerve be divided, or in any way injured, the muscles moving the glottis become paralysed, but its sensibility remains unimpaired. In cases where the nerve is compressed by a tumor—say, for instance, an aneurism of the arch of the aorta— the voice may be changed to a whisper,* or even altogether lost. 170. Difference between the male and the female larynx.—Until the approach of puberty, there is no great difference in the relative size of the male and female larynx. The male larynx, within the space of two years after this time, becomes nearly doubled in * Medical Gazette, Dec. 1843.