49 PALM OF THE HAND. The external portion is connected with the anterior annular liga- ment, and receives an expansion from the tendon of the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. It passes over the muscles forming the ball of the thumb, and is attached to the radial border of the first metacarpal bone. The internal portion, thin and transparent, is chiefly derived from the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris ; it covers the muscles of the little finger, and is inserted into the ulnar border of the fifth metacarpal bone. 72. The palmaris brevis is a small cutaneous muscle, situated at the upper and inner side of the palm. It consists of several small bundles of muscular fibres, separated by fat and cellular tissue, which arise from the inner edge of the central portion of the palmar fascia, pass transversely inwards, and terminate in the skin on the inner side of the palm. Its use is to increase the concavity of the palm, by drawing the skin towards the centre of the hand. Divide the tendon of the palmaris longus, and reflect the palmar fascia from the annular ligament towards the fingers; observe the attachment of its deeper fibres to the lower border of the ligament. Remove the loose cellular tissue which permits the free play of the tendons beneath the fascia, and expose with care the vessels and nerves in the palm. 73. Superficial palmar arterial arch,—The ulnar artery passes over the annular ligament of the wrist near the pisiform bone, de- scribes a curve across the upper part of the palm beneath the palmar fascia, and, gradually diminishing in size, inosculates with the superficialis volse, or some other branch of the radial, so as to form the superficial palmar arch. The curve of the arch is di- rected towards the ball of the thumb, and crosses over the flexor . tendons and the divisions of the median nerve. No precise rule can be given for finding its exact position in the hand : most com- monly its greatest convexity descends as low as a horizontal line drawn across the junction of the upper with the middle third of the palm; but sometimes it descends as low as the centre of the palm. In its passage over the annular ligament, the artery is protected by the projecting pisiform bone, and by a tendinous expansion which passes from the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris to that of the palmaris longus. The ulnar nerve lies close to its inner side, D