184 STYLOGLOSSUS AND STYLO-PHARYNGEUS. not help reflecting that to remove it completely during life seems almost if not quite impracticable. If this be true even in the normal condition of parts, what must it be when they are enlarged by disease ? John Bell, however, relates a case in which he was induced to attempt the extirpation of a diseased parotid.* Other surgeons, too, of modern date have attempted the same thing. It is probable that an enlargement of one of the absorbent glands in the substance of the parotid might have been mistaken for disease of the parotid itself, f By drawing forwards with hooks the angle of the jaw, a very little dissection is required to obtain a good view of two slender muscles, the stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyngeus, and also of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve: all of which, it will be observed^ intervene between the external and internal carotid arteries. The course and relations of the internal carotid artery are likewise fairly displayed. These several objects we shall now proceed to examine. 85. Stylo-glossus muscle.—This slender muscle arises from the styloid process near the apex, and sometimes also from the so-called stylo-maxillary ligament. It passes forwards and expands upon the side of the tongue external to the hyo-glossus muscle. Some of its fibres run on with the lingualis muscle to the apex of the tongue. Its action is to retract the tongue. 86. Stylo-pharyngeus muscle.—This muscle, more deeply seated than the former, arises by tendinous fibres from the styloid process near the base. It then descends, inwards, to the side of the pharynx, and passes between the superior and middle constrictor muscle. We shall presently find, however, that it gradually expands and terminates upon the posterior border of the thyroid cartilage. Its action is to assist in raising the pharynx in the act of deglutition. a. Between the stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyngeus muscle, and nearly parallel with both, will be seen the stylo-hyoid ligament. * J. Bell's Principles of Surgery, vol. iii. p. 262. f On this subject see Allan Burns, Surgical Anatomy of the Head and Neck.