272 OPTIC NERVE. OPHTHALMIC ARTERY. plate of the sethmoid bone. However, it soon leaves the cranium by passing through a slit near the " crista galli," and enters the nose. Here it gives off slender filaments to the mucous membrane of the upper part of the septum narium, and the upper spongy bone ; but the main continuation of the nerve descends along a groove behind the nasal bone, becomes superficial between the bone and the cartilage, and, under the name of naso-lobular (see § 52), is finally distributed to the integuments of the ala of the nose. The following branches given off by the nasal nerve in the orbit are described in the order in which they arise :— a. One, or perhaps two, slender filaments to the lenticular ganglion. b. Two long ciliary nerves. They proceed along the optic nerve to the back of the globe of the eye, pass through the sclerotic coat, and supply the iris. c. Infra-trochlear nerve.—This runs along the inner wall of the orbit, leaves this cavity below the pulley of the superior oblique, and divides into filaments, some of which supply the skin at the inner angle of the eye, and the root of the nose ; others are dis- tributed to the eyelid and lachrymal sac. 205. Optic nerve.—Having passed through the optic foramen, this nerve proceeds forwards and a little outwards to the globe of the eye, which it enters on the nasal side of its axis. It is cylindrical in form, and is invested by a dense fibrous coat derived from the dura mater. At the optic foramen it is surrounded by the tendinous origins of the recti; in the rest of its course, by loose fat and cellular tissue, and by the ciliary nerves and arteries. 206. Ophthalmic artery.—This artery arises from the internal carotid, close to the anterior clirjoid process of the sphenoid bone. It enters the orbit most frequently through the optic foramen, below and outside the optic nerve ; occasionally, however, through the sphe- noidal fissure. Its course is remarkably tortuous. It is situated at first on the outer side of the optic nerve, then crosses over it, and, running along the inner side of the orbit to the inner angle of the eye, finally inosculates with the internal angular artery (a branch of the facial). Its numerous branches commonly arise in the fol- lowing order:—