468 DEEP MUSCLES OF THE SOLE. 93. Deep muscles.—Having traced the principal vessels and nerves, we must divide them with the flexor tendons near the os calcis, and turn thein down towards the toes, so as fairly to expose the deep muscles in the sole. These are, the flexor brevis and the adductor pollicis, the flexor brevis minimi digiti, the transversalis pedis, and the interossei. 94. Flexor brevis pollicis.—This muscle arises from one or more of the cuneiform bones, generally the internal. It proceeds along the metatarsal bone of the great toe, and divides into two portions, which run one on either side of the long flexor tendon, and are inserted by tendons into the sides of the first phalanx of the great toe. In each tendon there is a large sesamoid bone. These bones not only increase the strength of the muscle, but both together form a sort of pulley for the free play of the long flexor tendon. 95. Adductor pollicis.—This very powerful muscle arises from the cuboid bone and the ligamentous covering of the long peroneal tendon. Passing obliquely across the foot, it is inserted into the outer side of the base of the first phalanx of the great toe. It is obvious that this muscle greatly contributes to support the arch of the foot. 96. Flexor brevis minimi digiti.—This little muscle arises from the base of the fifth metatarsal bone, proceeds forwards along it, and is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the little toe. 97. Transversalis pedis.—This slender muscle runs transversely across the distal ends of the metatarsal bones. It arises by little fleshy slips from the four outer toes, and is inserted into the first phalanx of the great toe with the adductor pollicis. 98. Interossei.—These muscles are arranged nearly like those in the palm ; that is to say, they occupy the intervals between the metatarsal bones, and are seven in number, four being on the dorsal aspect of the foot, and three on the plantar. They arise from the sides of the metatarsal bones, and terminate in tendons which are inserted, some into the inner, others into the outer side of the first phalanges of the toes and their respective extensor tendons. Their use is to draw the toes to or from each other, and they do this or that according to the side of the phalanx on which they act.