DISSECTION OF THE TESTIS. 544 cle,* except behind, where the vessels and ducts enter; and that it also covers the epididymis on the outside entirely, but less so on the inside. The interior of the sac is smooth and polished, like all other serous membranes, and lubricated by a little fluid : an excess of this fluid gives rise to the disease termed hydrocele. The tunica vaginalis was originally derived from the peritoneum. In some subjects it still communicates with that cavity by a narrow neck, and is therefore liable to become the sac of a hernia. Such herniee are termed congenital—a bad name, since they do not, as a matter of course, take place at birth, but often in adult age. Some- times the communication continues through a very contracted canal, open to the passage of fluid only ; or the communication may be only partially obliterated, and then one or more isolated serous sacs are left along the cord. Such an one, when distended by fluid, gives rise to hydrocele of the cord. Tunica albuginea.—This is a dense, inelastic membrane, com- posed of bundles of fibrous tissue, interlacing in every direction, analogous to the sclerotic coat of the eye. It completely invests the testicle, but not the epididymis. At the posterior part of the gland it penetrates into its substance for a short distance, and forms an incomplete vertical septum, termed, after the anatomist who first described it, the corpus Highmori, and subsequently, by Sir A. Cooper, the mediastinum testis. This septum transmits the blood- vessels of the gland, and contains, also, the net work of seminal ducts, called the rete testis. From the mediastinum testis are given off in all directions a num- ber of slender fibrous cords, which traverse the interior of the gland, and are attached to the inside of the tunica albuginea. They serve to maintain the general shape of the testicle, to support the numerous lobules of which its glandular substance is composed, and to convey the blood-vessels into it. These tie-beams (trabeculi * Strictly speaking, the tunica vaginalis does not cover quite the lower part of the testicle : this uncovered part corresponds to the original attach- ment of the gubernaculum.