472 LIGAMENTS OF THE KNEE-JOINT. The use of the ligamentum teres is to assist in steadying the pelvis on the thigh in the erect position. In this position, the direction of the ligament is vertical, and it is quite tight. Conse- quently it prevents the pelvis from rolling towards the opposite side, or the thigh from being adducted beyond a certain point. But, when the thigh is at all bent, the ligament is relaxed, and we can easily cross the leg. Thus, then, it is evident that the ligaments of the hip are so arranged, that when we stand at ease on one leg, the pelvis is spontaneously throw into a position in which its range of motion is the most restricted; for the capsule prevents it from rolling backwards, and the ligamentum teres from inclining beyond a certain point towards the opposide side. This arrangement econo- mises muscular force in the balancing of the trunk. Respecting the synovial membrane of the hip, we have to observe that it covers the neck of the thigh-bone to a greater extent in front than behind, and that it is reflected over the ligamentum teres. Lastly, it is easy enough to ascertain that the head of the thigh-bone is kept in the acetabulum by atmospheric pressure; and the amount of this is, of itself, sufficient to keep the limb suspended from the pelvis, even supposing all muscles and ligaments to be divided. When fluid is effused into the hip-joint, the influence of the at- mospheric pressure is diminished in proportion; and the correspond- ing surfaces of the bones being no longer maintained in accurate contact, it sometimes happens that the head of the femur escapes from its cavity, giving rise to what is called a spontaneous dislo- cation. 103. Ligaments of the knee-joint.—If we look at the skeleton only, one would be apt to suppose that the knee-joint were very insecure. But nature has amply made up for this ap- parent insecurity by powerful ligaments, and by surrounding the joint on all sides with a thick capsule formed by the tendons of the muscles which move it. Let us first examine the tendons concerned in the construction of the capsular ligament. In front there is the ligamentum patella?;