DEEP MUSCLES ON THE BACK OP THE LEG. 461 We should now examine more fully the insertion of the semi- membranosus into the head of the tibia. We observe, 1. that its tendon is prolonged under the internal lateral ligament of the knee, and that a bursa intervenes between them; 2. that it sends upwards and outwards a ligamentous expansion to protect the back of the knee-joint; and 3. that a fascia proceeds from its lower border, and binds down the popliteus muscle. 75. Popliteus,—This muscle arises from a depression on the outside of the external condyle by means of a thick tendon which runs beneath the lateral ligament. The muscular fibres gradually spread out, and are inserted into the posterior surface of the tibia above the oblique ridge observable on this bone. Its action is to rotate the leg inwards. We notice that the tendon plays over the articulation between the tibia and fibula, that a bursa intervenes to prevent friction, and that this generally communicates by a wide opening with the knee-joint. Reflect the soleus from its origin, and remove it from the deep- seated muscles, observing at the same time the numerous arteries which enter its under surface. This done, we have next to notice the fascia which binds down the deep muscles. It is attached to the margin of the bones on either side, and increases in strength towards the ankle, in order to form a sort of annular ligament to confine the tendons and the vessels and nerves in their passage into the sole of the foot. 76. Deep muscles on the back of the leg.—There are three. 1. the flexor longus digitorum on the tibial side; 2. the flexor longus pollicis on the fibular; and 3. the tibialis posticus upon the interosseous membrane. 77. The flexor longus digitorum arises from the posterior surface of the tibia, commencing below the popliteus, and extending to within about four inches of the lower end of the bone. The fibres terminate on a tendon which runs through a groove on the back of the inner ankle, and then entering the sole, divides into four ten- dons for the four outer toes. 78. The flexor longus pollicis is a remarkably powerful muscle. It arises from the lower two-thirds of the posterior surface of the fibula. The fibres terminate on a tendon which runs through a