GLOSSOPHARYNGEAL NERVE IN THE JUGULAR FOSSA. 281 ganglionic enlargements, named respectively the jugular and the petrous. 220. The jugular ganglion (ganglion superius), has been par- ticularly described by Miiller.* It is seen upon the nerve imme- diately after its entrance into the canal of the dura mater, and is so small that its size does not in any direction exceed ^ of an inch. It occupies the outer side of the nerve, and does not implicate all its fibres. According to our observation, however, this ganglion is very frequently absent. 221. The petrous ganglion (commonly called, after its discoverer, the ganglion of Anderschf) is situated upon the glossopharyngeal nerve, near the lower part of the jugular fossa. It is oval in form, and about \ of an inch long. It is connected by filaments to the pneumogastric and sympathetic nerves, and it gives off what is called the tympanic nerve, j This tympanic branch of the glosso- pharyngeal ascends through a minute canal in the bony ridge which separates the carotid from the jugular fossa, to the inner wall of the tympanum, and terminates in several filaments. One traverses a bony canal to the plexus of sympathetic nerves round the carotid artery ; a second goes to the fenestra ovalis; a third to the fenestra rotunda; a fourth is distributed to the mucous mem- brane of the Eustachian tube; a fifth ascends in front of the fenestra ovalis, traverses the upper wall of the tympanum, and joins the large petrosal nerve in the hiatus Fallopii (see ยง 216, e); a six takes nearly a similar course, and under the name of the small petrosal nerve proceeds along the front surface of the petrous bone to the otic ganglion (see ยง 217). Thus it would appear that this tympanic branch is distributed to the mucous membrane of the tympanum and the Eustachian tube, and that it communicates with the spheno-palatine ganglion through the greater petrosal nerve, and with the otic ganglion through the lesser petrosal. It is fair to state that we have rarely succeeded in tracing each of the preceding filaments, and never all in the same subject. * Medicin. Zeitung, Berlin, 1833, No. 52. f Andersch, Fragra. descript. nerv. cardiac, 1791. % This nerve, though commonly called Jacobson's, was fully described by Andersch.