POSITION AND FORM OF THE HEART. 202 would be nearly conical in form, but for the flattening of its lower surface upon which it rests. Its base, that is, the part by whJch it is attached and from which its great vessels proceed, is directed upwards and to the right behind the sternum ; its apex downwards and to the left; and its long axis forms with the mesial line an angle of about 55°.* Speaking, then, in general terms, we may say that the heart is placed behind the lower half of the sternum, that it occupies more of the left than the right half of the chest, and that it rests upon the left side of the central tendon of the diaphragm, which is nearly on a plane with the lowest part of the fifth rib. If a vertical line be drawn down the left margin of the sternum, about one-third of the heart will lie to the right of it, and the remainder to the left. At each contraction the apex of the heart may be felt beating between the fifth and sixth ribs at a point about two inches below the nipple, and one inch on its sternal side. The flattening of the lower surface of the heart occasions two edges on its circumference, an upper and a lower, or a right and left. The upper edge (belonging to the left ventricle) is very thick and convex, and slants from the mesial line at an angle of about 35°; the lower edge (belonging to the right ventricle) is very much thinner, and nearly horizontal. If we look at the upper surface of the heart we observe that it is convex, and that it is divided by a superficial longitudinal line proceeding from the base to the right side of the apex. A similar line is observable on the lower or flat surface. These lines are the principal trunks of the coronary arteries by which the walls of the heart are supplied with blood, and they indicate the septum or partition by which the ventricles are divided. At the base of the heart there are two other chambers, one on each side, each having a sort of pendulous portion (appendix) directed towards the mesial line: these are the auricles. The outline of the heart traced upon the front wall of the chest * The position of the heart in man affords evidence that he is expressly adapted to the erect position ; for in quadrupeds it is placed perpendicularly in the chest with the point downwards, and is unsupported by the diaphragm.