224 STRUCTURE OF THE LUNGS. ventricles. They consist of a superficial layer common to both cavities, and a deeper layer proper to each. The superficial fibres run for the most part transversely across the auricles, and a few pass into the septum. The deeper fibres run in circles chiefly round the auricular appendages and the entrance of the great veins, upon which a few may be traced for a short distance. Of the ventricular fibres, some are common to both ventricles, others proper to each. The septum is formed principally by the fibres of the left. All the fibres take a more or less spiral course from the base towards the apex of the heart, where they coil round, pass into the interior of the ventricle, and form either " carnese columnae" or " musculi papillares."* 134. Weight,—The average weight of the heart is from ten to twelves ounces in the male, and from eight to ten in the female: but much depends upon the size and condition of the body generally. We have seen the heart so reduced in size by diabetic disease that it weighed only 5\ oz. As a general rule, it may be stated that the heart gradually increases in length, breadth, and thickness, from childhood to age.f 135. Relative thickness of the cavities,—Of course the measure must not be taken during the (( rigor mortis." The average thick- ness of the right auricle is about one line ; that of the left, one and a half. The average thickness of the wall of the right ventricle at its thickest part—i. e.3 the base—is about two lines. The average thickness of the left ventricle at its thickest part—i. e. the middle— is about 5± of a line. In the female the average is less. STRUCTURE OF THE LUNGS. 136. The lungs are very vaseular, spongy organs, tjirough which the blood passes in its course from the right to the left side of the heart, and in which it is purified by means of exposure to * For further information upon this subject, see the article in Todd's Cyclopaedia. f Consult Bizot, Mem. de la Soc. Med. d'Obser. de Paris, torn. i. 1836.