DISSECTION OF THE EYE. 531 each other; for, if any part of it be punctured, the humour gra- dually drains off: the membrane itself is so delicate that it is difficult to obtain it separately; but it may be rendered slightly opaque by strong spirit or diluted acids. It is of somewhat firmer consistence on the surface, so that it answers the purpose of a capsule for the vitreous humour, and is sufficiently strong to keep it in shape after the stronger tunics of the eye have been removed. * In the foetus, a branch of the retinal artery runs up through the centre of the vitreous humour, and ramifies on the back of the capsule of the lens. It is lodged in a kind of tubular canal in the hyaloid membrane, termed the hyaloid canal; but little or nothing of this is seen in the adult. The vitreous humour presents in front a deep depression, in which the crystalline lens is imbedded; and around this depres- sion is what is called the u zone of Zinn."f This zone is best exposed by peeling off the ciliary body, and washing away the pigment which it leaves behind. It extends from the indented margin of the retina nearly to the capsule of the lens : its surface is perfectly transparent, and presents a number of concentric folds, which correspond with those of the ciliary body. Various opinions are entertained of the nature of this zone; but, according to our observation, it does not appear to be anything more than the external surface of the hyaloid membrane. Canal of Petit. %—If the transparent membrane between the * The cells of the vitreous humour may sometimes be demonstrated by freezing the eye and then dividing it. The figure and size of the cells is shown by the portions of ice which they contain. Again, by macerating the eye in chromic acid, it is found that the vitreous humour is intersected by 180 delicate partitions, disposed like those in the pulp of an orange—with this difference, however, that the partitions do not quite reach to the centre, but leave a cylindrical space in the axis of the humour. Up this space the central artery runs in the foetus. f Zinn was Professor of Anatomy at Gottingen about the middle of the eighteenth century, and author of " Descriptio Anat. Oculi Humani" % Petit, Memoires de l'Academie des Sciences, 1723-1730.