NERVES OF THE SCALP. 261 bases to the aponeurosis of the scalp. The fibres of each converge, and are inserted, those of the former into the front of the helix, those of the latter into the back part of the concha. b. M. retrahens aurem.—This is composed of one or more dis- tinct bundles of fibres, which proceed from the base of the mastoid process to the lowej part of the concha. All the muscles of the ear are supplied by the auricular branch of the facial nerve (see § 37). 182. Nerves of the scalp.—In order to dissect these nerves we should first find the principal trunks ; and there is no difficulty in doing so, because they accompany the arteries. a. Supra-orbital nerve,—This is a branch from the ophthalmic division of the fifth pair. It emerges from the orbit through the notch of the frontal bone, and subdivides into cutaneous branches. It will be observed that they are covered at first by the fibres of the orbicularis and occipito-frontalis muscles; but they presently become subcutaneous: some of them may be traced over the top of the head as far as the occipital bone. b. Superficial temporal nerves.—These ramify in company with the arteries of the same name. Some of them are derived from the inferior maxillary, or third division of the fifth pair; others from the facial nerve (see § 77). c. Posterior auricular nerve.—This nerve, a branch of the facial, will be found with its corresponding artery behind the pinna of the ear (see § 37). d. Great occipital nerve.—This is the posterior branch of the second cervical nerve. After passing through the M. complexus, it appears on the back of the head in company with the occipital artery, and divides into wide spreading cutaneous branches. The lesser occipital nerve, a branch of the cervical plexus, (see § 5, a) may be found near the posterior border of the insertion of the sterno-mastoid. 183. If the aponeurosis of the scalp be raised, we observe the quantity of loose cellular tissue which intervenes between it and the pericranium. This tissue never contains fat. We would, however, draw attention to it chiefly for the reason, that after injuries of the head this tissue is very apt to become the seat of inflamma-