STRUCTURE OF THE BLADDER. 376 effectually traced unless the parts have been previously hardened in spirit. They accompany the arteries supplying the respective organs, and are called severally the vesical, prostatic, and inferior hemorrhoidal plexuses. According to the accurate dissections of Muller,* it is determined that the vesical filaments of the sympathetic do not stop at the prostate, but pass on beneath the pubic arch into the corpus caver- nosum penis. Thus the erectile tissue of the intromittent organ is brought directly within the influence of the sympathetic system. STRUCTURE OF THE BLADDER, PROSTATE, URETHRA, AND PENIS. The parts are presumed to have been collectively taken out from the pelvis, and the partial peritoneal covering of the bladder to have been removed. 73. The bladder is composed of two coats, a muscular and a mucous; these are connected by an intermediate layer of pretty firm cellular tissue, out of which some anatomists make a third coat, and call it the cellular. a. The muscular is the outside coat. It consists of bundles of muscular fibres crossing each other in various directions. Their colour and degree of development vary according to the condition of the individual, and according to whether he has suffered during life from irritation of the bladder, or any obstruction to the flow of the urine. The general direction of the fibres is simply as follows: —An outer layer arises from the circumference of the prostate, and from thence its fibres spread out longitudinally over the bladder, chiefly, however, in frout and behind. Under this there is a layer of more or less circular fibres, but more especially near the neck. Towards the sides of the bladder we observe that the two sets of fibres have a less definite arrangement, and they form a kind of network : these, therefore, are the weakest parts of the bladder, and more liable to the formation of pouches, f * " Ueber die organischen Nerven der erectilen mannlichen Geschlechts- organe des Menschen und der Saugethiere, Berlin, 1836. f These pouches arise in the following manner :—A portion of mucous