OPHTHALMIC ARTERY. OPHTHALMIC GANGLION. 273 a. Lachrymal artery.—This proceeds along the outer side of the orbit to the lachrymal gland. After supplying the gland, it runs forwards, and terminates in the upper eyelid. b. Supra-orbital artery.—This is a branch of considerable size. It runs forwards with the frontal nerve along the roof of the orbit, and emerges on the forehead through the supra-orbital notch (see § 179). c. Arteria centralis retince.—This is a small branch which enters the optic nerve near the back of the orbit, and runs in the centre of this nerve to the interior of the eye. d. Ciliary arteries.—These proceed very tortuously forwards with the optic nerve. They vary from fifteen to twenty in number, and perforate the sclerotic coat at the back of the eye, in order to supply the choroid coat and the iris. They are sometimes called " posterior ciliary/* in order to distinguish them from other arte- ries named " anterior ciliary/* which proceed with the tendons of the recti muscles, and enter the front part of the sclerotica. In inflammation of the iris the vascular zone round the cornea arises from enlargement and congestion of these anterior ciliary arieries. e. (Ethmoidal arteries.—These pass through the foramina on the inner wall of the orbit, into the nose, and supply the mucous membrane. f. Muscular arteries.—These are uncertain in their origin, and are given off chiefly by the branches already described. g. Palpebral arteries.—Two or more for each lid proceed from the lachrymal, nasal, and supra-orbital branches. h. Nasal artery.—This may be considered as the termination of the ophthalmic. It leaves the orbit on the nasal side of the eye, and inosculates with the angular artery. It supplies the side of the nose and the lachrymal sac. 207. Ophthalmic vein.—This commences at the inner angle of the eye, by a communication with the angular and frontal veins. It runs backwards in a more straight course than the artery, receiving corresponding branches, and finally passing between the two origins of the external rectus terminates in the cavernous sinus. 208. Ophthalmic or lenticular ganglion.—This little body is situated at the back of the orbit, between the optic nerve and the ex-