454 HAMSTRING MUSCLES. that it becomes stronger as it passes over the popliteal space, and that here it is connected with the tendons on either side. We should remove it, in order to examine the powerful muscles which bend the leg, commonly called the hamstring muscles. 61. Hamstring muscles. — There are three of these, and all agree in this respect, that they arise by strong tendons from the tuber ischii. One, the biceps, is inserted into the head of the fibula; while the other two, namely the semitendinosus and semi- membranosus, are inserted into the tibia. The divergence of these muscles towards their respective insertions occasions the well-known space termed the ham, which is occupied by soft fat, and the pop- liteal vessels and nerves. 62. Biceps.—This muscle, as implied by its name, has two origins, a long and a short. The long one takes place, by means of a strong tendon, from the back part of the tuber ischii; the short one, by fleshy fibres, from the linea aspera of the femur. This, which we can easily see by dissecting on the outside of the thigh, begins at the linea aspera, just below the insertion of the glutseus maximus, and continues nearly down to the external con- dyle. It joins the longer part of the muscle, and both terminate on a common tendon, which is inserted into the head of the fibula. The tendon covers part of the external lateral ligament of the knee- joint, and a small bursa intervenes.* 63. Semi-tendinosus.—This arises, in common with the biceps, from the back part of the tuber ischii. The fibres terminate upon a long tendon, which spreads out below the knee-joint, and is inserted into the inner surface of the tibia below the tendons of the sartorius and gracilis. Like them, it plays over the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint, and is provided with a bursa to prevent friction. 64. Semi-membranosus. — This muscle arises from the tuber ischii, outside the two preceding, by means of a strong flat tendon which extends nearly halfway down the thigh. It forms a bulky musc!e which lies on a deeper plane than the others, and is inserted * It is this tendon which can be so plainly felt as the outer hamstring in Our own person.