493 LATERAL VENTRICLES. their mode of origin and general form, and then the names of the several objects seen in them. The lateral ventricles are two cavities in the general mass of the brain, occasioned by the enormous enlargement and folding back- ward of the cerebral lobes over the other less developed constituent parts of the central nervous axis. They contain a serous fluid, which, even in a healthy brain, sometimes exists in considerable quantity, but, when preternaturally accumulated, constitutes one form of the disease termed hydrocephalus. The very delicate lining membrane which secretes this fluid is quite distinct from the arachnoid on the outside of the brain, and the epithelium on the surface of it is provided with cilia, of which the vibratile movement may be distinctly seen, especially in the embryo. With regard to the general shape of the ventricles,* they may be rudely compared to two crescents with their backs to each other. Each ventricle extends into the three lobes of which the cerebral hemisphere is composed. That part which extends into the ante- rior lobe is called the anterior horn, and we observe it slightly diverges from its fellow on the opposite side. The posterior horn* may be traced into the posterior lobe; this rather converges than not to its fellow. The middle horn, which runs into the middle lobe, descends towards the base of the brain, making a very curious curve, something like a ram's horn,—that is, in a direction back- wards, outwards, downwards, forwards, and inwards. We can easily follow its windings by cutting through the substance of the middle lobe. Supposing the roof of the lateral ventricles—in other words, the corpus callosum—be removed, what have we to remark on the floor of their interior ? Beginning from the front, we notice—1. A grey * The posterior horns are not always equally developed in both hemis- pheres, and sometimes they are absent in one or in both. They are only found in the brain of man and the quadrumana. In the carnivora, ruminantia, solipeda, pachydermata, and rodentia, the lateral ventricles are prolonged into the largely developed olfactory lobes. This is the case in the human foetus only at an early period.