PALM OP THE HAND. 51 75, The ulnar nerve passes over the annular ligament into the palm, on the inner side of, and rather behind the ulnar artery. It is protected by a process of fascia, and lies in a groove between the pisiform and unciform bones, so that it is perfectly secure from pressure in this apparently exposed situation. A small bursa is sometimes found between the nerve and the ligament. Immediately below the pisiform bone, the ulnar nerve divides into a superficial and a deep palmar branch. The deep branch supplies the muscles of the little finger, and accompanies the ulnaris profunda artery into the palm (see § 99). The superficial branch divides into two digital nerves, for the supply of both sides of the little finger and the ulnar side of the ring finger. The more internal of these two nerves sends filaments to the palmaris brevis, to the integument on the inner side of the palm, and is joined by a filament from the dorsal cutaneous branch of the ulnar nerve; it then runs along the ulnar side of the palm, internal to its corresponding artery, and is continued along the inner side of the little finger to the extremity. The other nerve descends internal to its corresponding artery, and passes obliquely over the flexor tendons of the little finger towards the cleft between the little and ring fingers, where it subdivides into twro branches, which run along the opposite sides of these two fingers to their extremities. It also sends a filament to communicate with the median nerve, behind the superficial palmar arch. 76. Anterior annular ligament of the carpus.—This exceed- ingly strong and thick ligament confines the flexor tendons of the fingers and thumb, and fastens together the pones of the carpus. It is attached externally to the scaphoid and trapezium bones; internally to the pisiform and unciform, and to the ligament con- necting them. It is made up of oblique and transverse fibres, interlacing more or less with each other. Its upper border is con- tinuous with the aponeurosis in front of the wrist; its lower border terminates in the palmar fascia; its anterior surface receives the expanded tendon of the palmaris longus, and gives origin to most of the muscles constituting the ball of the thumb and little finger. Cut vertically through the ligament, and observe, that, with the concavity of the carpal bones, it forms a complete elliptical canal,