DISSECTION OF THE HEAUT. 219 127. Right ventricle.—This forms the right border and about two-thirds of the upper surface of the heart. To examine its interior, a triangular or V-shaped portion should be raised from its anterior wall. We observe that its wall is much thicker than that of the auricle, and that its thickness gradually diminishes towards the apex of the heart. The cavity of the ventricle is rather conical in form, with its base upwards and to the right. Its walls present a multitude of prominent bands of muscular fibres (columnce carnece) of various length and thickness, which cross each other in every direction, so as to occasion a reticulated appearance ; and this network is generally found filled with coagulated blood. Of these columnae camese we notice three kinds :—one kind stands out only in high relief as it were from the ventricle; another is attached to the ventricle by their extremities only; a third, and by far the more important set, called " musculi papillares' is fixed by one extremity to the ventricle, while the other projects towards the auricle, and terminates either in a blunt extremity or in several short processes. To the summits of this last set are attached fine tendinous cords (corda tendinece), which pass from thence to the auriculo-ventricular or tricuspid valve. The number of these musculi papillares is always equal to the number of the chief divi- sions of the valve ; consequently there will be three in the right, and two in the left ventricle. Of those in the right ventricle, one proceeds from the septum. There are two openings in the right ventricle. One, called the auriculo-ventricular, through which the blood passes from the auricle, is placed at the base of the ventricle. It is surrounded by a ring of fibrous tissue, to which is attached the tricuspid valve, which will be presently described. From the upper and front part of the ventricle, a smooth short passage, sometimes called the " infundibulum," leads to the other opening—that, namely, of the pulmonary artery. It is situated to the left and in front of the auriculo-ventricular, and about three-fourths of an inch higher. Between the two openings the muscular substance of the ventricle projects like a prominent ridge. 328. Tricuspid valve.—This is situated at the right auriculo- ventricular opening. Like all the valves of the heart, it is formed