CERVICAL FASCIA. 112 the ramus of the jaw ; some of these communicate with the transverse branch of the cervical plexus, others terminate in the platysma. 7. Cervical fascia.—Attention should in the next place be directed to the membranous investment, called the cervical fascia, which encloses the several parts of the neck In some subjects this structure is so thin and cellular as to be scarcely discernible; in others, in which the muscles are well developed, it is propor- tionably dense and resisting. Under any circumstances it is relatively stronger in particular situations; as, for instance, in front of the trachea, in the fossa above the clavicle, and below the angle of the jaw. This fascia not only covers the soft parts of the neck collectively, but also, by its inflections, forms separate sheaths for the several muscles, vessels, and glands, isolating them, each one from the other, and maintaining them in their proper relative position. Hence it is obvious that a lengthened description of its numerous layers would be not only extremely tedious, but abso- lutely unintelligible, without a very considerable previous knowledge of the anatomy of the neck. It is sufficient for our present purpose to give merely a general outline of the attachment of the fascia; reserving for future attention its deeper layers as they successively come before us hereafter. Commencing, then, at the upper part of the neck, we find that the fascia is firmly attached along the basis of the jaw, and especially to the angle, from which it extends backwards to the styloid process of the temporal bone, and thus forms what is commonly called the stylo-maxillary ligament. From the base of the jaw the fascia passes down, and is attached to the os-hyoides ; it supports the soft parts which constitute the floor of the mouth, but furnishes no special sheath in this situation, excepting for the submaxillary gland. Below the os-hyoides the fascia becomes rather more compli- cated, and for convenience of description may be divided into two layers, a superficial and a deep one, each of which we will trace from the mesial line. The superficial layer descends from the os-hyoides, and is attached to the anterior border of the upper part of the sternum.