THE AXILLA* 13 shoulder-joint, and is inserted into the lesser tuberosity of the humerus. The two muscles which are attached to the coracoid process of the scapula, and descend perpendicularly along the inner side of the arm, are the coraco-brachialis and short head of the biceps. Along the upper border of the pectoralis minor runs an artery,— the superior, or short thoracic; another, larger than the former, runs near the lower edge of the muscle, and is called the inferior, or long thoracic. They are both branches of the axillary. Reflect the pectoralis minor from its origin, without dividing the thoracic arteries, and the cavity of the axilla will be completely exposed. The great vessels and nerves should be carefully cleaned, without disturbing their connexions. It is advantageous partially to reflect the subclavius from its attachment to the rib and the clavicle, in order to obtain a full view of the axillary plexus and vessels. 17. Course and relations of the axillary vessels and nerves.—The axillary vessels and plexus of nerves are closely covered by a thin layer of the cervical fascia, which descends with them beneath the clavicle. The direction of their course will necessarily vary with every position of the arm. The following description supposes the subject to be placed on the back, with the arm at nearly a right angle with the body. The main artery of the arm passes beneath the clavicle over the upper surface of the first rib, and is called the subclavian till it reaches the lower border of the rib, where it takes the name of axillary. These limits are merely arbitrary, and adopted for the convenience of description. From the margin of the rib the axillary artery proceeds obliquely downwards and outwards through the upper part of the axilla,beneath the two pectoral muscles, and along the inner edge of the coraco- brachialis muscle to the lower border of the tendon of the teres major muscle, where it takes the name of brachial. Thus the vessel crosses the apex of the axilla, and descends along its humeral side. In its course downwards, the artery lies successively over the first intercostal space and the second digitation of the serratus magnus; next upon the loose cellular tissue of the axilla; then upon the subscapularis muscle ; and, lastly, upon the tendon of the latissimus dorsi and teres major. The axillary vein in the first part of its course lies in front of