CERVICAL ABSORBENT GLANDS. 123 the oesophagus. It must he obvious that enlargement of a part so situated would occasion most fearful symptoms. We have seen two cases in which the lateral lobes projected so far inwards that they completely embraced the back of the oesophagus. Small absorbent glands are generally observed about the thyroid body, especially in front of the trachea, near the isthmus; and one or more are situated over the crico-thyroid membrane. These glands, if enlarged by disease, might on superficial examination be mistaken for a small bronchocele. 13. Deep cervical absorbent glands.—In the loose cellular tissue which surrounds the great vessels of the neck, we meet with a series of absorbent glands, called the deep cervical, or glandulae concatenatse. They form an uninterrupted chain from the base of the skull, along the side of the neck, to the clavicle, beneath which they are continuous with the thoracic and the axillary glands. It is important to notice that some of these glands lie anterior to the common carotid artery, while others are interposed between it and the spine. This natural disposition explains the well-known fact, that, when these glands are enlarged, the great vessels and nerves of the neck are liable to become imbedded in their substance. The glands are particularly numerous near the division of the com- mon carotid, by the side of the pharynx, and the posterior portion of the digastric muscle. The absorbent vessels connected with them arrive from all parts of the head and neck. These vessels even- tually unite, so as to form, on both sides of the neck, one or more large absorbent trunks, which may be called the jugular. On the leftside this trunk joins the thoracic duct, or opens by a sepa- rate orifice into the left subclavian vein. On the right, it joins the right thoracic trunk, or terminates separately in the veins. The contiguity of the glands to the great vessels and nerves of the neck explains the nature of the symptoms produced by their enlargement. The tumor may be so situated as to be alternately raised and depressed by the pulsation of the carotid, and thus simu- late an aneurism. A careful examination, however, will generally detect the difference between a real and an apparent pulsation. By grasping the tumor we soon become sensible that the rising and falling does not depend upon any variation of its magnitude, but