DIAPHRAGM. 337 two upper lumbar vertebrce. On the top of each there is a little body, like a cocked hat, called the renal capsule. We have no difficulty in tracing the ureter, or excretory duct of the kidney. It descends almost vertically on the psoas muscle, and then, enter- ing the pelvis generally over the division of the common iliac artery, empties itself into the lower part of the bladder. It seems hardly necessary to repeat that in front of the right kidney, and connected to it only by cellular tissue, there is the as- cending colon, and the vertical portion of the duodenum ; in front of the left, the descending colon. This explains how it is that a renal abscess or a calculus is sometimes evacuated by stool.* 31. Diaphragm,—This is a partly muscular and partly tendi- nous arch, so constructed as to form a complete moveable partition between the chest and the belly—a floor for the one, and a roof for the other. We cannot see the structure of the arch until its peri- toneal covering is removed. We then observe that there is a broad tendon in the centre, and that muscular fibres converge to it from all sides. Now, since the muscular fibres arise from the circum- ference of the chest, let us examine the particular parts to which they are attached, beginning in front, and tracing them in succes- sion round to the spine. They arise, then, as follows:—1st. from the ensiform cartilage ; 2dly. from the inside of the cartilages of the six lower ribs by as many digitations, which correspond with those of the transverse muscle of the abdomen; 3dly. in the interval between the last rib and the spine, they arise from two thin tendi- nous arches, f thrown, the one over the quadratus lumborum, the * The proximity of the colon to the ureters gives us a probable explanation of the manner in which pins or other extraneous bodies sometimes find their way into the bladder, and become the nuclei of calculi. In confirmation of this, the following case is related by Velpeau, which occurred at the Hospital of La Pitie :—A pin, the head of which was still found in the colon, in which it had produced considerable ulceration, had passed also into the ureter, so that a calculus, of which the pin formed the axis, projected partly within and partly without the canal of the ureter. (Velpeau, Anat. Chir. t. ii. p. 175.) f These arches are commonly called, respectively, the ligamentum ai)6ua- tum internum and externum. The first extends from the body of the first lumbar vertebra to its transverse process, arching over the psoas; the second extends from the same transverse process to the last rib, and arches over the