THE AXILLA. 10 space, close to the lower border of the second rib, above the third digitation of the serratus magnus, traverses the upper part of the axilla, where it receives a branch of the lesser internal cutaneous nerve, (nerve of Wrisberg, from the brachial plexus,) and perfo- rating the fascia, terminates in numerous filaments, which are dis- tributed to the skin, on the inner and posterior aspect of the arm, as low as the internal condyle. Before it leaves the axilla, this nerve sends a branch which turns round the latissimus dorsi, to supply the integument over the dorsum of the scapula. The perforating branch of the third intercostal is also an intercosto-humeral nerve. It almost always receives a branch from the second, and has a somewhat similar distribution, except that its filaments do not extend so low down the arm. 14. The axilla may be described as a space, of somewhat conical form, of which the summit is beneath the clavicle, and the base between the pectoralis major and latissimus dorsi muscles. On the inner side, the axilla is bounded by the four or five upper ribs, covered by the serratus magnns muscle ; on the outer side by the humerus, covered by the coraco-brachialis and biceps muscles; in front by the pectoralis major, and behind by the latissimus dorsi, teres major, and subscapulars muscles. Its anterior and posterior boundaries converge from the chest, so that the axilla becomes gradually narrower towards the arm. This space, of which the dimensions vary with the position of the arm, is occupied by loose cellular tissue and fat, and by nume- rous absorbent glands, which form a continuous chain beneath the clavicle, with the cervical glands. They are from ten to twelve in number, of a reddish brown colour and variable size. Most of them lie in the immediate neighbourhood of some large blood-vessel; others are embedded promiscuously in the loose cellular tissue of the axilla, and sometimes one or two small ones are observed along the lower border of the pectoralis major, immediately beneath the skin. They are well supplied with blood by a special branch (thoracica alaris) of the axillary artery, as well as by numerous ramifications from the thoracic and infrascapular arteries. These glands receive the absorbents from the arm, from the front