CONSTRICTOR MUSCLES OP THE PHARYNX. 234 of the cervical fascia placed between the muscles of the pharynx and the spine: and it must not be confounded with the proper pharyngeal aponeurosis which will be presently described. We may observe that it is firmly attached to the basilar process of the occipital bone, and to the point of the petrous portion of the temporal; that, on either side, it is continuous with the buccal fascia, the stylo-hyoid ligament, and the sheath of the great vessels of the neck: below, it is gradually lost upon the oesophagus. On either side of the back of the pharynx, near the base of the skull, there are usually found two or more oblong absorbent glands of variable size. These it is necessary to remove without injury to the great vessels and nerves adjoining them. 146. Pharyngeal venous plexus.—In removing the fascia from the pharyngeal muscles, we should notice that a number of veins ramify and communicate in all directions upon their surface. They constitute the pharyngeal venous plexus of authors, and terminate in the internal jugular. 147. Constrictor muscles of the pharynx.—They are three in number, and are arranged so that they successively overlap each other, —h e. the inferior overlaps the middle, and the middle the superior. They have severally the same attachments on both sides of the body; and the fibres from the right and left sides meet together in the middle, the junction being marked by a white longitudinal line called the raphe. a. Inferior constrictor.—This arises from the side of the cricoid cartilage, from the inferior cornu and back part of the ala of the thyroid. Its fibres proceed backwards and expand over the lower part of the pharynx. The superior portion ascends obliquely, and terminates about the middle of the bag in a pointed form : the middle is more transverse, and the inferior slightly descending is closely united to the muscular covering of the oesophagus. Beneath its lower border the recurrent laryngeal nerve enters the larynx. b. Middle constrictor.—This muscle arises from the upper edge of the greater cornu of the os-hyoides, and even from its lesser cornu and part of the stylo-hyoid ligament. Its fibres pursue different directions, so that with the opposite muscle they form an exact lozenge figure. The lower angle of the lozenge is covered