496 FORNIX. communicates with the third ventricle between the pillars of the fornix.* We may now cut transversely through the corpus callosum and the septum lucidum, and turn forwards the anterior half. In this way the ventricle of the septum will probably be apparent. By turning back the posterior half of the corpus callosum we obtain a pretty good view of the fornix. But this last proceeding requires care, or the fornix will be reflected at the same time, since these two layers or arches of nervous matter are here so closely connected. Fornix.—This, as implied by its name, is a layer of white matter arranged in the form of an arch from before backwards, beneath the corpus callosum. It is not of equal breadth throughout, but is somewhat triangular, with the base behind. This broad part is in- separably connected to the corpus callosum. From its anterior narrower part proceed two round white cords, called its anterior crura, close together,—one on either side the mesial line. They do not extend as far forwards as the corpus callosum, but turn nearly vertically downwards to the base of the brain, where they may be traced, one into each of the little white bodies known as the corpora mammillaria. Immediately behind and below these anterior crura we observe that there is an aperture in the middle line through which the choroid plexuses of opposite sides are continuous with each other. This aperture is called the " foramen of Monro " \ Strictly speaking, it is not a foramen, but only a communication existing between the two lateral and the third ventricles. If we reflect the posterior half of the fornix, which is done easily enough, since it lies unattached over the velum interpositum, we observe that from each angle of the base there is continued a thin white band, which runs along, and is intimately connected with, the con- cave side of the hippocampus major: to this band the name of # The development of the septum lucidum commences about the fifth month of foetal life, and proceeds from before backwards pari passu with the corpus callosum and fornix. t Monro, Microscopic Enquiries into the Nerves and Brain. Edinburgh, 1780.