371 UUETHItA UNDER THE PUBIC ARCH. neck of the bladder, and surrounds the first part of the urethra. In the healthy adult it is about the size and shape of a chestnut. Its lower flat surface rests upon the rectum, and the apex is di- rected forwards. We have already seen that it is surrounded by a plexus of veins (§ 61), that it is maintained in its position by the pelvic fascia (§ 59), and that on either side of it are the levatores ani. It is about three-quarters of an inch below the symphysis pubis, and about two inches from the anus, as one may easily as- certain by the finger. The wide, that is the transverse diameter, is about one inch and a half; the vertical is about half an inch less. But the gland varies so much in size at different periods of life, and even in different individuals of the same age, that we can- not specify its dimensions with precision. In the child it is not developed, or at all events is very small: it gradually grows to- wards puberty, and increases in size with advancing age. Of its minute structure we say nothing at present, but pass on to examine the urethra in its passage under the pubic arch. 69. Anatomy of the urethra in its passage under the pubic arch.—The urethra, in its passage under the arch of the pubes, is surrounded by muscular fibres; this, therefore, may very properly be called the muscular part of the urethra, though it commonly goes by the name of the membranous. It comprises so much of the canal as is intermediate between the prostate and the bulb. Upon the whole it is about one inch in length, though it is some- what longer on the upper than the lower surface, in consequence of the encroachment of the bulb. It is about an inch below the symphysis pubis, and nearly the same distance from the rectum; we observe, however, that it is not equidistant from the rectum at all points, because of the downward bend which the gut makes towards the anus.* At the same time, it must be confessed, that in the ordinary routine dissection of the pelvis we can obtain but a very imperfect and unsatisfactory insight into the anatomy of this important part # If a clean vertical section were made we should see that the two canals form the sides of a triangular space, of which the apex is towards the pros- tate. This is sometimes called the recto-urethral triangle.