471 LIGAMENTS OF THE HIP-JOINT. of the femur: but observe, this is the ease in front of the neck only ; for the under and back part is merely embraced by the capsule like a collar; in fact, just like the head of the radius is embraced by the annular ligament. Moreover, we perceive that the capsule is not of uniform strength and thickness throughout. It is exceedingly thick and strong over the front of the joint, and answers the pur- pose of a ligament or strap extending from the upper and outer part of the acetabulum down to the base of the neck of the femur. What is the object of all this ? When the thigh is moved forwards, the capsule is necessarily relaxed, and rotation is free enough ; but when the bone is moved backwards, the capsule is put on the stretch, and offers an irresistible impediment to any movement in this direction*beyond what is essential to the erect attitude. By laying open the capsule, we have an opportunity of ascertain- ing ihe enormous thickness of it in front, and the strong hold it has upon the bones. This proceeding also exposes the cotyloid ligament, or what may be called the sucker of the acetabulum. The cotyloid ligament is a piece of fibro-cartilage which is attached all round the margin of the acetabulum. Its use is sufficiently apparent. It not only deepens the cavity, but gradually shelves off, so as to embrace the head of the femur like a sucker. It necessarily extends over the notch at the lower part of the acetabulum, and just in this situation has received the name of the transverse ligament. & The li(/amentum teres is exposed by drawing the head of the femur out of the socket. It is attached, on the one hand, to the borders of the acetabular notch; and, on the other, to the fossa in the head of the femur. We observe that the nature of its attach- ments is such as to prevent the head of the femur from being moved out of its socket in%ny but a downward direction; conse- quently it must be torn in all dislocations of the hip, excepting into the foramen ovale. To prevent pressure on the ligament, and to allow free room for the play of it, we notice, in the dry bones, that there is a gap at the bottom of the acetabulum, and a small groove on the head of the femur. These parts, respectively, not being subject to friction, are not crusted with cartilage like the other surfaces of the bone, but are occupied by a soft yielding fat.