PREVERTEBRAL MUSCLES. 299 small branches to the muscles at the hack of the neck: among others, one (commonly called the princeps cervicis) which, descend- ing beneath the complexus, in some subjects inosculates with the deep cervical artery. b. The deep cervical artery (described § 49) is analogous to the posterior branches of the other intercostal arteries. It ascends between the complexus and the semispinalis muscles. c. The posterior branches of the intercostal and lumbar arteries accompany the corresponding nerves, and are in all respects similar to them in distribution. They all send a branch into the spinal canal. The veins correspond to the arteries. We have now to examine three muscles situated in front of the spine ; namely, the longus colli, the rectus capitis anticus major, and the rectus capitis anticus minor. But in order to have a complete view of the two latter, a special dissection should be made before the head is removed from the first vertebra. 267. Longus colli.—This muscle is situated in front of the spine, and extends from the third dorsal to the first cervical ver- tebra. For convenience of description it may be divided into two sets of fibres, of which the one extends longitudinally from the body of one vertebra to that of another; the other extends obliquely between the transverse processes and the bodies of the vertebrae. a. The longitudinal portion of the muscle arises from the bodies of the two or three upper dorsal and the two lower cervical ver- tebrae, and is inserted into the bodies of the second, third, and fourth cervical vertebrae. b. The oblique portion, arising from the transverse processes of the third, fourth, and fifth cervical vertebrae, ascends inwards, and is inserted into the front part or body of the first cervical vertebra. Other oblique fibres proceed from the bodies of the three upper dorsal vertebrae, and are inserted into the transverse processes of the fifth and sixth cervical vertebrae. The action of the muscle, taken as a whole, must obviously be very limited. It tends to bend the cervical region of the spine. 268. Rectus capitis anticus major.—This muscle arises from p