355 DISSECTION OF THE MALE PERINEUM. is appropriately called the superjicialis perinei. This we shall have occasion to trace more fully presently. There is, however, a cutaneous nerve seut to these parts from the lesser ischiatic, called the long pudendal nerve. It comes through the muscular fascia of the thigh a little above the tuber ischii, and ascends, dividing into filaments, which supply the skin of the perineum and scrotum. a. In removing the fat from the ischio-rectal fossa, we observe that a number of vessels and nerves run through it in a transverse direction fr 0111 the ramus of the ischium towards the anus. These are the external or inferior hemorrhoidal, and proceed from the great pudic trunk, which may be felt on the inner side of the ischium. They are irregular in their number and size, but scarcely ever so large as to occasion serious hemorrhage, when any of them happen to be divided either in lithotomy or in laying open a fistula. 46. Muscular fascia.—Supposing the subcutaneous structure to be fairly cleared off, we come upon the proper fascia which invests the muscles of the perineum, and is, in every sense, ana- logous to muscular fascia in other parts, for it not only covers the muscles collectively, but provides each with a distinct sheath. At the same time it is much less dense, though more elastic, than the strong fascia,—say, for instance, of the limbs ; and there is, indeed, so much resemblance between it and what we have described as the deeper stratum of the subcutaneous tissue, that the learner will hardly recognize any distinct plane of demarcation between them. Such, however, as it is, what are its connexions ? 1. It is attached on either side to the rami of the pubes and ischium 5 2. if traced forwards, it will be found to be directly continuous with the tunica dartos of the scrotum ; 3. if traced backwards, we find it runs into the fascia lining the ischio-rectal fossa; 4. along a transverse line about the level of the front of the anus, it recedes from the surface, and becomes intimately connected with the deep perineal fascia. Along the line indicated, it forms a partition between the urethral and anal divisions of the perineum. This is the reason why, when urine is effused into the perineum, it cannot make its way into the ischio-rectal fossa. Let us now remove the fascia in order to examine the muscles s