ARTERIES OF THE SPINAL CORD. 513 them is, that, previous to their union with the anterior roots, they are collected together and pass through a ganglion. This ganglion is of an oval form, and lies in the intervertebral foramen, just where the roots of the nerves pass through the dura mater.* The direction and length of the roots of the nerves vary in-the different regions of the spine, because the respective parts of the cord from which they arise are not opposite the foramina through which the nerves leave the spinal canal. In the upper part of the cervical region, the origins of the nerves and their point of exit are nearly on the same level; therefore the roots proceed transversely, and are very short. Eut as we descend from the neck, the obliquity and length of the roots gradually increase, so that the roots of the lower dorsal nerves are at least two vertebra? higher than the foramina through which they emerge. Again, since the cord itself terminates at the second lumbar vertebra, the lumbar and sacral nerves must of necessity pass down from it almost perpendicularly through the lower part of the spinal canal. To this bundle of nerves the old anatomists have given the name of cauda equina, from its fancied resemblance to a horse's tail. In brief, then, it appears that the spinal cord consists of two precisely symmetrical parts, separated in front and behind by a deep median fissure ; that the two parts are connected at the bottom of the anterior fissure by an anterior or white commissure—at the bot- tom of the posterior fissure by the posterior or grey commissure ; that each part of the cord is divided into three tracts or columns of longitudinal nerve-fibres—an anterior, a posterior, and a lateral— the boundaries between them being the respective lines of origin of the roots of the spinal nerves; that the interior of the cord contains grey matter disposed in the form of two crescents placed with their convexities towards each other, and connected by a transverse bar of grey matter, which is the posterior commissure. Arteries of the spinal cord.—The cord is supplied with blood by—1, the anterior spinal artery, which commences at the medulla oblongata by a branch from the vertebral of each side, and then runs # The ganglia of the two last sacral nerves lie within the dura mater. bb2