ANATOMY OF THE LARGE INTESTINE. 416 that the glands are imbedded in the submucous tissue, that they are rather opaque, about three-fourths of a line in diameter, and in shape not unlike a Florence flask. They have no discoverable orifices. When full and ripe, they come to the surface, burst, dis- charge their contents, and die,—for what purpose is not precisely known. These are the glands which are so liable to be ulcerated in fever. But the glands of Peyer are not confined to the ilium. Glands in all respects like them, except that they are solitary, are found scattered in all parts of the small intestine, and also in the large. 107. Large intestine.—The principal external characters of the large intestine are, that it is pouched or sacculated, and that it has, attached to it, little pendulous portions of fat covered by perito- neum, called appendices epiploicce. Now the pouches are obviously produced by a shortening of the longitudinal muscular fibres, and by their being collected into three bands, about half an inch wide, and nearly equidistant from each other. One of these bands corre- sponds with the attached part of the circumference of the bowel, another with the front part, and the third with what may be called its concavity. If at any given part the three bands be divided, the pouches immediately disappear. The rectum differs from the rest of the large intestine in that its longitudinal muscular fibres are not collected into bands, but dis- tributed equally over its whole circumference. Moreover, both the longitudinal and circular fibres are of considerable strength, like those of the oesophagus, as one might expect from the particular functions which these parts of the alimentary canal have to perform. Lastly, for one inch and a half, or thereabouts, above the anus, the circular fibres are remarkably developed, and constitute what is termed the internal sphincter ani. a. The mucous membrane of the large intestine differs materially from that of the small. It is altogether more simple. There are no valvulae conniventes nor villi; but there are plenty of Lieber- kiihn's glands, and plenty also of the flask-like solitary glands* like those in the ileum. As far as regards the arrangement of the * The solitary glands are more abundant in the caecum and in the appendix vermifororis than in any other part of the alimentary canal.