369 BLADDER. URETER. less oval, and its long axis runs nearly parallel with that of ihe brim of the pelvis; i. e. the axis, if produced, would pass supe- riorly through the umbilicus, or thereabouts, and inferiorly through the end of the coccyx : we speak, of course, in reference to the adult, for in the child, the bladder being more in the abdo- men, the direction of its axis is more vertical accordingly. The quantity of urine which the bladder will hold without much inconvenience varies in different cases. As a general rule it may be stated at about a pint. A good deal depends upon the habits of the individual; but there are some persons who have, natu- rally, a very small bladder, and are on that account obliged to empty it more frequently. In young persons the lowest part of the bladder is the neck, or that part which joins the prostate. But in proportion as age ad- vances, the bottom of the bladder gradually deepens so as to form a sort of well or pouch behind the prostate. In old subjects, more particularly if the prostate be enlarged, this pouch is apt to become of considerable depth, and render micturition tedious. It some- times happens that a stone exists in the bladder, and yet none can be felt; the reason of which may possibly be that the stone has lodged in such a pouch below the level of the neck of the bladder, and therefore escapes the detection of the sound. Under these circumstances it is necessary to place the patient on an inclined plane with the pelvis higher than the shoulders, and then the stone falls out of the pouch, and is easily recognizable. Postponing, for the present, the examination of the coats of the bladder, we pass on to notice the ureters, vasa deferentia, and vesi- culse seminales. 65. The ureter is a tube about eighteen inches long, which con- veys the urine from the kidney to the bladder. In the dissection of the abdomen we saw it descending along the psoas muscle, and crossing the division of the common iliac artery. If we now trace urachus. In the infant the bladder is of a pyriform shape, as it is, perma- nently, in the quadruped ; but as we assume more and more the perpendicular attitude, the weight of the urine gradually makes the lower part more capa- cious.