FRONT OF THE FORE-ARM. 35 the extensor carpi radialis longior muscles, will be found a branch of the superior profunda artery, and the musculo-spiral nerve. One or two absorbent glands are sometimes found in the triangular space at the elbow, close to the division of the brachial artery. Examine the muscles which are attached in succession by a common tendon to the internal condyle of the humerus : namely, the pronator radii teres, the flexor carpi radialis, the palmaris longus, the flexor sublimis digitorum, and the flexor carpi ulnaris. 49. The pronator radii teres muscle forms the inner side of the triangular space at the elbow. It arises fleshy from the lower part of the internal intermuscular septum, from the anterior surface of the internal condyle, and from the septum between it and the flexor carpi radialis on its outer side. It has also another origin, partly fleshy and partly tendinous, from the coronoid process of the ulna on the inner side of the insertion of the brachialis anticus. To have a good view of this second attachment, it is necessary to reflect that portion of the muscle which comes from the condyle. From these two origins, which are separated by the median nerve, the fleshy fibres proceed obliquely downwards and outwards, and terminate in a strong, flat, tendon, which is inserted into a rough surface on the outer and back part of the radius about its middle. The tendon of insertion into the radius is about one inch and a half in breadth, and receives fleshy fibres on its lower surface, and sometimes on its upper, close to the bone. It is covered by the supinator longus and extensor carpi radialis longior. The action of this muscle is simply to pronate the fore-arm. 50. The flexor carpi radialis muscle arises by a thin tendon from the internal condyle, between the pronator teres and the flexor sublimis digitorum; also from the intermuscular septa and the fascia. The fleshy fibres terminate in a flat tendon, which commences about the middle of the fore-arm, and descends towards its radial side. The tendon disappears at the wrist beneath the anterior annular ligament, passes through a groove in the os tra- pezium, lined by a synovial membrane, and is inserted by a broad expansion into the base of the second metacarpal bone, and some*