MUSCLES OF THE SHOULDER. 73 at first in the substance of the muscle, and then, passing behind the capsular ligament of the shoulder-joint, is inserted into the posterior and lower part of the greater tuberosity of the humerus. Some of the fibres of the muscle are attached directly into the bone. A branch of the circumflex nerve enters its inferior surface. A bursa sometimes intervenes between the tendon and the tuberosity. The action of the infra-spinatus and teres minor is to rotate the humerus outwards. 121. The teres major muscle, situated below the teres minor, is closely connected with the latissimus dorsi, and extends from the inferior angle of the scapula to the humerus, contributing to form the posterior boundary of the axilla. It arises from the flat surface at the inferior angle of the dorsum of the scapula, and from the septum which separates it from the infra-spinatus and teres minor. The muscular fibres terminate upon a broad flat tendon, two inches or more in breadth, which is inserted into the inner edge of the bicipital groove of the humerus, behind the tendon of the latissimus dorsi. Its action is to draw the humerus backwards. By dis- secting between the two tendons, it will be found that they are separated, near the groove, by a large bursa, and that the tendon of the latissimus dorsi is inserted into the bottom of the groove. The tendon of the teres major descends lower than that of the latissimus dorsi, and has commonly a separate bursa between itself and the bone. Remove the trapezius from its insertion into the clavicle and spine of the scapula, and we shall then expose a layer of fascia, which is attached to the margins of the supra-spinal fossa, and covers the supra-spinatus muscle. This fascia must be removed. 122. The supra-spinatus muscle arises from the posterior two- thirds of the supra-spinal fossa, and from the posterior part of its aponeurotic covering. It passes underneath the acromion, over the upper part of the shoulder-joint, and is inserted by a strong broad tendon into the highest part of the greater tuberosity of tho humerus. To obtain a good view of its insertion, the acromion process should be sawn off near the neck of the scapula. The tendon lies concealed in the muscle, and is closely connected with £