MUSCLES OF MASTICATION". 174 nerve, thus endowing it with common sensibility (see § 73, A). Above the zygoma it gives off a few slender filaments (auricular) to the pinna of the ear : these generally proceed from that branch which accompanies the posterior temporal artery. In the subcutaneous tissue of the temple "We also look for the temporal branches (see § 73, A, a) of the facial nerve, which ascend to supply the frontal, the attrahens, and attollens aurem muscles. In the proper temporal fascia, about an inch or more above the zygoma, we may observe one or two small openings which transmit cutaneous filaments from the first or the orbital division of the fifth nerve. Some of these join the filaments of the facial nerve. The little muscles which move the ear will be described with the dissection of the scalp. Divide the parotid duct, and turn it back with the anterior part of the gland and the branches of the portio dura from the surface of the masseter. This muscle should be carefully cleaned. It will now be observed that at the posterior border of the masseter the parotid gland lies in immediate contact with, and in fact covers, the condyle and neck of the jaw. In some few instances a portion of glandular substance penetrates behind the masseter and comes in contact with the external pterygoid muscle. 78. Masseter muscle,—This strong quadrilateral muscle arises by aponeurotic fibres from the lower border of the zygomatic arch, and is inserted into the outer surface of the angle and ascending ramus of the jaw. We may distinguish, however, a superficial and a deep layer of fibres which cross each other somewhat like the letter X. The superficial fibres, constituting indeed the prin- cipal part of the muscle, arise from the anterior two-thirds of the zygoma by a very strong tendon which occupies the outer surface and the front border of the muscle, and sends aponeurotic parti- tions into its substance. The fibres descend with a slight inclina- tion backwards, and are inserted into the angle and adjoining part of the ramus of the jaw. The deeper layer of fibres arise from the posterior part of the zygoma, descend with an inclination forwards, and are inserted into the upper half of the ramus. Besides these we shall presently find that a few fibres, taking origin from the