451 EXTERNAL HOTATOIL MUSCLES. 49. We have next to examine the series of small muscles which rotate the thigh outwards—namely, the pyriformis, the obturator internus, with the gemelli attached to it, the quadratus femoris, and the obdurator externus. 50. Pyriformis.—This muscle arises from the front surface of the sacrum between the holes for the sacral nerves, and also from the margin of the great sacro-ischiatic notch. The fibres converge to a tendon which is inserted into the upper border of the tro- chanter major. 51. Obturator internus. — This muscle, of which we can at present see very little more than the tendon, arises within the pelvis from all that surface of the ischium between the great ischiatic notch and the obturator foramen, and also from the obturator mem- brane. The fibres terminate on four tendons which converge towards the lesser ischiatic notch, pass round it as round a pulley, and then uniting into one, are inserted into the inner side of the top of the great trochanter. We ought to divide the tendon about three inches from its insertion, in order to see the four tendons which play over the smooth cartilaginous pulley. As might be expected, there is a large synovial bursa to prevent friction. 52. Gemelli.—These muscles are accessory to the obturator internus, and are situated, the one above, the other below it. The gemellus superior arises from the spine of the ischium ; the gemellus inferior from the upper part of the tuberosity. Their fibres are in- serted into the tendon of the obturator internus. 53. Quadratus femoris.—This muscle arises from the pro- minent ridge on the outer part of the tuber ischii. Its fibres run horizontally outwards, and are inserted into the back of the great trochanter, in a line with the linea aspera. We notice that the lower border of the quadratus femoris runs parallel with the upper edge of the adductor magnus; in fact, it lies on the same plane. Between these muscles is generally seen a terminal branch of the internal circumflex artery. 54. Obturator externus.—It is rather difficult to obtain a clear view of this muscle, because it is situated so deeply, and covered by so many others. It arises from the front surface of the bone (pubes and ischium), which circumscribes the inner half, or there- Y