271 NASAL NERVE. recti are soon exposed. The breadth and the precise situation of their insertion deserves attention in reference to the operation for strabismus. 203. The breadth of their insertion is about three-eighths of an inch, but the line of this insertion is not at all points equi- distant from the cornea. The centre of the insertion is nearer to the cornea by about one line than either end. Taking the internal rectus, which, by the way, we have most frequently occasion to divide in strabismus, we find that the centre of its tendon is, upon an average, three lines only from the cornea, the lower part nearly five lines, and the upper four. It is, therefore, very possible that the lower part may be left undivided in the operation, being more in the background than the rest. The tendon of the internal rectus is nearer to the cornea than either of the others. a. The superior rectus must now be divided and turned aside; in doing so, observe the branch of the third nerve, which supplies this and the levator palpebrse. After the removal of a certain quantity of fat and cellular tissue, we expose the following parts:— 1. The optic nerve. 2. The nasal nerve, and the ophthalmic artery and vein, all of which cross over the optic nerve from without inwards. 3. A little deeper towards the back of the orbit, between the optic nerve and the external rectus, is situated a small reddish body, about the size of a flattened pin's head, called the lenticular ganglion. By tracing the third and the sixth nerve backwards, it may be seen that they enter the orbit between the two origins of the external rectus muscle. These must be severally examined. 204. Nasal nerve.—This is one of the three divisions of the oph- thalmic branch of the fifth pair. It enters the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure between the two origins of the external rectus, and then crosses over the optic nerve towards the inner wall of the orbit. Here, after giving off the infra-trochlear branch, the nerve passes out of the orbit through the foramen orbitale internum anterius, traverses a short bony canal which conducts it into the cranium,* where it lies beneath the dura mater, upon the cribriform * We have seen instances in which the nasal nerve entered at once into the Cavity of the nose without passing through the cranium.