PALM OF THE HAND. 48 apex at the wrist. About the middle of the palm it splits into four portions, which are connected together by strong transverse tendinous fibres, extending completely across the palm, and cor- responding pretty nearly to the transverse furrow of the skin in this situation. Each of these four divisions of the fascia splits into two portions, which embrace the corresponding flexor tendons, and are intimately connected with the fibro-cai tilaginous ligament of the first joint of the fingers. In this way, the flexor tendons of each finger are surrounded and kept in place in the lower part of the palm, by a kind of fibrous ring formed by the palmar fascia. In order to see this distinctly, the fascia should be divided longitudinally over one of the tendons. The manner in which it embraces the tendons, as well as its deep connexion with the transverse metacarpal ligament of the fingers, will be readily recognized. Between the four primary divisions of the palmar fascia the digital vessels and nerves will be observed, surrounded by fibro-cellular tissue and fat, and descending nearly in a line with the clefts between the fingers. In the hands of mechanics, in whom the palmar fascia is usually very strong, we commonly find that slips of it are lost in the skin at the lower part of the palm, and also for a short distance along the sides of the fingers. The chief use of the palmar fascia is to protect the vessels and nerves from pressure when anything is grasped in the hand. It also confines, and binds down the flexor tendons of the fingers in their proper place. Between the interdigital folds of the skin, are found aponeurotic fibres, constituting what are called the transverse ligaments of the fingers. They are connected with the palmar fascia, and with the heads of the first phalanges, and form a continuous ligament across the lower part of the palm, in front of the digital vessels and nerves. Their office is to prevent a too great separation of the fingers. The external and internal portions of the palmar fascia, covering respectively the muscles of the ball of the thumb and the little finger, are both continuous with the central portion.