STERNO-MASTOID MUSCLE. flaccid arid impervious daring inspiration. But it must not be forgotten that this anatomical disposition of the great veins makes them more liable to permit the entrance of air when they are accidentally wounded in surgical operations. The danger of this occurrence is well known.* A correct knowledge of the attachment ot the chief layers of the cervical fascia is essential to a right understanding of the direction which pus may take when deposited in the cellular tissue of the neck. For instance, supposing the matter be seated external to the fascia, there is no ground for apprehension lest it should make its way into the chest. Supposing it be seated beneath the super- ficial layer, there is still no fear of its penetrating into the chest, but it may readily burrow beneath the clavicle into the axilla. On the other hand, when deposited in the loose cellular tissue by the side or at the back of the pharynx, matter may easily travel through the upper opening of the chest into the posterior mediasti- num, and make its way into the trachea or oesophagus. * 8. Sterno-cleido mastoideus.—Remove the fascia from the surface of the sterno-cleido-mastoideus. This muscle, which forms the prominence on the side of the neck, arises by a flat tendon from the upper and front part of the sternum, and by fleshy and aponeurotic fibres from the sternal third, more or less, of the clavicle. The two portions of the muscle, separated at first by an interval containing cellular tissue, ascend, and remain distinct for some distance, the sternal fibres overlapping the clavicular: towards the upper part of the neck they become more closely united, and are inserted by a thick tendon into the anterior part and external surface of the mastoid process of the temporal bone, and by a broad aponeurosis into the outer half, more or less, of the superior semi-circular ridge of the occiput. It will be observed that the sternal tendon is continued for some distance along the anterior border of the muscle, and that the tendon receives fleshy fibres on its under surface as low as the sternum. The extent of the clavicular origin varies; sometimes * For some good observations on this subject, consult Velpeau, Lettre sur ^introduction de TAir dans les Veines. Paris, 1838.