GARDENING. 246 the hooks in the curtains are passed. One great disad- vantage of these wooden rings is, that with a slight motion, even that caused by a person walking overhead, the rings, if close together, rattle, which is an annoyance even to an ordinary sleeper, and is a weariness to an invalid. An improvement upon wooden rings is to have them of india-rubber. Metal rings should never be used. GARDENING.—XII. THE VEGETABLE GARDEN (continued/7-om p. 2^0). Rotation, or change of crops, is a matter of much importance, as it is well known that each sort of plant requires a somewhat different nourishment, so that one crop may immediately succeed another, but it should be contrived that a wide crop should follow a close one, or a close crop a wide one. The seasons for planting or sow- ing the different vegetables should be particularly attended to, in order that each may be obtained as early as its nature will permit. Another very important subject is the selection of seeds of the best kind. The quantity of ground to be sown or planted with each kind of vegetable must be determined not only by the size of the garden, but by the demands of the family. At the same time, it is advisable to sow or plant rather more of each sort than you are likely to want. No exact rule can be laid down in order to proportion the crops properly, or as we could really wish, and therefore the cultivator must, to a certain extent, use his own judgment. The duration of crops varies to a very great extent. The principal or best time for propagating the different kinds of vegetables is in the spring months—namely, February, March, and April, for crops to come on in summer ; while smaller portions for succession during summer and autumn may be sown or planted between the months of April and October. The season for pricking out and planting each crop must be well attended to, doing it as soon as the seedlings or plants are sufficiently large for the purpose, and allowing ample room between each, without which they will neither grow large nor be well flavoured. The thinning out of the various seedling crops should likewise be attended to before the young plants have drawn each other up too high. All kinds of vegetables grow stronger, and arrive at greater perfection when there is a free circulation of air between them, and the sun is not impeded; and for this reason we advise a bountiful supply of both, as soon after the plants make their appearance above ground as possible. As a rule, people are afraid of taking out a sufficient number of seedling plants, excusing themselves by exclaiming, “ What a pity to pull them up ; what a waste I’band so forth ; but they little think that by overlooking, or neglecting such a pre- caution they frequently lose half or two-thirds of their crops. But we consider it a much greater pity to permit any crop to grow at will, so that plants choke or destroy one another. Of course such a-state of things does not exist with those v/ho have had'any experience, and for this reason we wish to impress- upon other minds the importance of timely thinning in all cases. The eradication of weeds is of equal importance ; at all events, where beauty and order is the first consideration ; and it should be, both as regards appearance and the health of the plants. Very many gardens promise to supply abundant crops, and would do so if the cultivator, either from negli- gence or fear of expense, did nob expose them to destruc- tion by obnoxious weeds, and his ground to be robbed by them of its richness. The best way to get rid of weeds is either by hoeing or pulling them up by hand, and either to expose them to the sun and air to wither, or, what we consider much better, to burn them on the spot, or throw them on the refuse heap and kill them by fermentation—• so long as they are deprived of vitality it does not matter by what means, V'atering is a matter of much import- ance, as it not only affords a proper degree of moisture but is of service in bringing the soil into a right condition for performing its various functions or offices—in a word, dry earth of itself has little effect, but when moistened it has the property of decomposing atmospheric air, and of conveying its oxygen (the air we breathe, and which is alike essential to the support of both animal and vegetable life) to the roots of those plants which vegetate within it. It also performs an important part in most of the changes which take place both in the animal and vegetable kingdoms. Watering, however, in some cases, we look upon as productive of more harm than good ; as in using hard or calcareous water, which if abundantly applied will taint the vegetables, and, to a certain extent, injure the surface of the ground. Rain water should always be used, if possible, but when it cannot be obtained, resort must be had to pump or spring water that has been ex- posed long enough to become impregnated with the sun’s rays. The time of watering must be regulated according as the weather is cold or warm—that is to say, water in the evening from the commencement of June to the end of September; but at any other time of year we prefer the morning for the operation, although it is safe to moisten anything after sunset. Vegetable crops generally are gathered by degrees, or we may say the gathering should be commenced as early as possible, and be continued as long as there is any produce left. At the same time no portion of a crop should be touched until it has attained a certain or proper degree of maturity, nor after it has begun to decay. In respect to the degree of maturity, a line must be drawn, as it very much depends upon the particular taste of the growers ; as in the case of cab- bages, some esteeming them most while open and green, and others not until they are fully headed and blanched. The operation of gathering vegetables is performed either by cutting, as in the case of cabbages; by pulling or breaking, as in the case of peas, beans, and similar pro- ductions ; or by drawing or digging up, as in the case of turnips, onions, carrots, parsnips, potatoes, celery, and the like. In the performance of these operations due regard should be had to those roots that will ultimately have to be stored away for future use—such as carrots, parsnips, potatoes, &c., so as not to bruise them, as in such case they will either rot or lose their flavour. As soon as each crop is over, the roots and other remains, which domestic animals will not eat, should be removed to the compost heap or dung yard, as such refuse is unsightly on the ground, but invaluable as manure. Mamire,—This is one of the most important requisites for the garden ; the productive power of the soil is continually weakened, and its nutriment extracted by the crops grown upon it, and it is necessary to replace this by artificial means. Any substance which, by being mixed with soil, promotes vegetable growth, is called a manure. Various substances are so employed ; some in ■ their natural state, others in a manufactured condition, and act upon the productive power of the soil with different degrees of intensity. For the ordinary vegetable garden the simplest manures are most generally used, as being most easily obtainable, and satisfying every require- ment. Horse manure is the most generally used of these fertilising substances, and it is generally found most advantageous to use in a half-rotted condition. As a rule, the better the horses are fed the more valuable is the manure. It is certainly most^economical to use it as fresh as possible ; but it is very difficult to work it into • the ground satisfactorily, as it is apt to clog the spade, ■ and render the digging a difficult process. Where i possible, the best mode of applying horse manure isi' to dig it in an inch or two below the surface of the soil,? along each side of the plants it is intended to benefit. ; Cow manure is frequently employed in the garden; • but its fertilising powers are by no means so great as , •