SERVANTS OF THE HOUSE. 3o6 chisel, should be passed round the welt and between the upper leather. Knives are often employed for this process, but the practice cannot be too strictly forbidden, the liability of cutting the leather being very great. If boots be exceedingly wet and soiled, a coarse piece of wetted sponge (stable sponge) should be passed over them to remove the first dirt. Boots should never be put near a fire to dry. A moderately warm room, at a distance from the fire, generally suffices, if the soles be turned upwards for a night. In laying on the blacking, very little should be used, and whilst damp the first polishing-brush should be briskly passed over, finishing with the finest brush. The stroke to secure a polish should be light and springy, not hard and with force. Three brushes are required for successful boot-cleaning. Patent leather boots simply require washing in the soiled places, and afterwards polishing with a piece of old cloth. The black kid tops may be preserved for a long time in a good state by occasionally using a mixture com- posed of the sediment of ink and a few drops of olive oil. This should be laid on sparingly, and whilst still damp the kid should be lightly rubbed with an old silk hand- kerchief or a piece of worn-out table-linen. Blacking sold in cakes is now generally used for ordi- nary leather boots. Instead of mixing the cake with water, a little sour beer, or a few drops of vinegar, will be found a great improvement. Knife-cleaning is a simple process, but apt to be de- structive if care be not taken to prevent undue wear. In the first place, knives should not be laid in hot water when washing them. They should be whisked round in a jug of soda and lukewarm water, barely deep enough to cover the blade. If the handles are suffered to touch the hot water, they are liable to become loose. Having washed and wiped the knives, the usual process is to polish them on a board over which a Bath brick has been passed a few times, and afterwards to rub the knife to and fro till a polish is obtained. The knife-handle is then dusted. Unless very carefully done, this plan is seldom so success- ful as using a “buff-board” is. The latter, if somewhat less lasting than the plain deal board, preserves the knives for a very much longer time in good condition. The emery-powder, also, used on the buff-board, is not equally destructive with brickdust, and the former gives a higher polish. Some people are under the impression that knife- machines are destructive; but the experience of many years convinces us that such is not the case. Knives cleaned with really good machines wear evenly and keep a fine edge—qualities which the old-fashioned knife- boards, unless in very experienced hands, seldom secure. The saving of time by the use of these machines is very considerable indeed, and becomes an important argument in their favour. Plate-cleaning requires time and patience to perform nicely. The plate should be first washed in warm soap and water. If very greasy, or used in eating fish, a little soda will be necessary. When wiped dry, a mixture com- posed of fine whitening-water (gilders’ whitening, sold in balls, is best) and a few drops of spirits of wine or gin should be laid on the plate with a piece of flannel or rag. The mixture should be of the consistency of good batter, and when dry on the plate should be rubbed off with a plate-brush. Instead of the ordinary plate-brush sold at oil-shops, use those which are termed jewellers’ brushes for the finer kinds of plate; they do not cost any more. A brush should only be used for the embossed work of plate. Simply rubbing with wash- leather is sufficient to ensure the brightness of plain plate. Plated articles are liable to injury if left for any length of time damp. After forks, spoons, &c., have been used for eating vinegar salads and the like, they should be im • mediately cleansed. Although cleaning with whitening, or plate-powder com- posed of rouge, is, as a general rule, only necessary once a week, plate looks better for being daily rubbed over after washing with a leather that may be kept in the plate- basket for the purpose. Towels boiled in a mixture of hartshorn powder and water are an excellent rubber for plate in daily use. Rags—old chamber-towels of hucka- back are best—boiled in a solution of a quart of water to six ounces of hartshorn powder, are excellent for the purpose. Window-cleaning is essentially the work of a page or footboy. Having taken due precaution against the chance of accident by falling, the first part of the process con- sists in dusting the window-sashes with a round brush, called a painter’s brush. One pane at a time should then be wetted with a wash-leather dipped in soda and cold water. When the leather has been wrung out and passed over again, the polishing should be done with a piece of dry wash-leather. Many other plans are recommended for window-cleaning, but the above answers every purpose, and is infinitely preferable to the use of any description of “ window-rags,” all linen and cotton fabrics being more or less fleecy in their nature. Powdering a window with whitening tied in a piece of cotton cloth is sometimes necessary, if the windows are unusually greasy or soiled ; but for ordinary occasions cold water and soda will be found sufficient, if a wash-leather be used for drying. . Trunniing lamps is part of the morning work of a page. Once a week every lamp in use should be taken to pieces and thoroughly cleansed. The works of oil lamps of every description should be soaked in hot water and soda, and rubbed perfectly dry whilst hot with a soft rag, and afterwards polished with a plate-leather. In trimming the cotton wicks of moderator lamps the greatest evenness is requisite. The wicks of paraffin lamps should only be dusted until the charred portions are removed. By this means a wick one-third of a yard in length lasts several months. All rags in use for lamp-cleaning should be washed at least once a week in strong soda and soapsuds. Washing glass, and sending it to table in the highest state of brilliancy, is an act worth striving to accomplish, from the great pleasure the sight of bright glass affords. Two wooden bowls are required to secure this end—one containing warm water and a little soda, and the other plain cold water for rinsing. Bowls used for washing glass should be used for no other purpose. After the glass has been washed, it should be laid on a coarse cloth to drain, and afterwards polished with a glass-cloth, i,e., a soft linen cloth. Soiled decanters may be easily cleaned either by rinsing them out with tea-leaves, or, if very dirty, finely-shred brown paper, soaked in soap and water. They will require good rinsing afterwards. Stoppers may be removed in various ways, if unfortu- nately they have become fixed. The most successful plan is generally to steam them over boiling water. A better endeavour is to prevent their becoming fixed. This may be done by twisting the stopper slightly between the fore- finger and thumb as it is put into the decanter. Brushing the master’s clothes is the page’s business where no other man-servant is kept. In doing so, the greatest care should be taken npt to soil the garments by brushing on a place of doubtful cleanliness. All cloth should be brushed the way of the pile, i.e., from the neck to the skirts downwards. Having brushed the clothes, they should be neatly folded according to the size of the drawer or wardrobe in which they are to be laid. The fewer folds the better. A small bottle of water, contain- ing a few drops of ammonia spirit, is useful to remove any grease spots that may be seen in brushing.