CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. :^5 Fig. 2. CHEAP HOME COMFORTS. Stopping Draughts. —There are many little things that can be done at a small cost to render home comfortable and home-like; little things that only want a small amount of patience, goodwill, and energy to execute, and which amply repay the trouble they give—not merely in the imperceptible but palpable comfort bestowed by them, but by the occupation they give to the mind, filling up those odd moments of time that are too often listlessly dawdled or idly gossiped away, and affording that con- stant round of useful employment that keeps the mind cheerful, and thus helps materially the health of the body. It is remarkable how handy a lady can be with a hammer and nails, as well as with a thread and needle, if she will but try. For carpentering she should use a good firm hammer, not too slight, and yet not too heavy for her strength, and not hold it near the head, but from the end, when she strikes. Such a tool will cost about ninepence. The small houses in the suburbs of London, and also in the country, are generally very slightly built, and abound in crevices and draughts. One of the first things to be done on entering a new house is to remedy this in the best way we can. To remedy draughts, first fortify the spaces round the usually ill-fitting doors of a new house. This is once for all. If you have felt carpets, there is usually a quantity of white margin cut off sufficient for part of the process. If not, buy about three yards of felt carpet. One shilling and ninepence a yard is enough to give for a wide width. Cut inch-wide strips—indeed, they may be a little narrower. With tin tacks place these strips all round the part of the door that closes into the doorway. If it is possible to get the door taken off the hinges, place it underneath too ; it will be a great comfort there. Afterwards nail a protection all round the door where it opens, and over the hinges. For this purpose black oil-cloth—about one shilling and tenpence a yard— cut in inch and a half wide strips, may be used ; or, what looks still better, scarlet twilled binding, inch wide. Fasten this with tacks also round the windows, but not so as to interfere with their free opening. The street and area doors must not be forgotten. Mats.—Mats should be laid outside all doors to stop draughts. These mats ought to fit the doors exactly and completely. If they do not they are ornamental and not useful. The old square mat is now seldom in requisition in any save large houses with spacious landings. The narrow mat, twelve inches wide, not only serves all purposes of use, but looks best in limited space. Those of sheepskin are handsome and efficient; but for upper bedroom doors excellent mats may be made of cloth cuttings, sewn on to canvas in innumerable loops as closely as possible. List, cuttings of felt carpets, or even old stuff dresses, can be utilised. If old material is used, wash it quite clean first, then cut it in inch-wide strips six inches long, and sew them to the foundation as close together as possible. Fig. i shows the loop, and where the stitches are made to sew it on; Fig. 2, how the rows of loops are sewn close, one over the other. The next row is, of course, placed as close upon the last as possible. SERVANTS OF THE HOUSE.—VI. THE PAGE, OR OCCASIONAL BOY. The duties of the page vary in their nature according to the class of establishment in which such servants ai-e kept. In households consisting of many domestics the page, as a juvenile servant, executes most of the light 20—N.s, miscellaneous tasks which the upper men-servants are unable to discharge without hindrance to more important work. Going on errands constitutes a very important portion of a young page’s work in large families ; and in order to fulfil this requirement efficiently, promptness and an intelligent mind are first essentials. Aptness in reading and writing is a great recommendation, added to which, if a lad has a good address, a well-formed figure, and a correct manner of speaking, he cannot fail to rise in his calling, and may ultimately hold the highest position of confidence a servant can attain in domestic service. Many of the duties of a page have already been treated of in preceding articles. We shall therefore only speak in this place of those branches of work which constitute the basis of general knowledge indispensable to indoor men-servants generally. Beginning with early morning work, whatever labour is dirty in its nature should be done early, i.e, before break- fast. A suit of old clothes should then be worn, and changed for better by the time the family comes down. Cinder-sifting may be cited as an instance of the work which should be done early and in old clothes. Therefore, the master of the house should impress on the various servants the necessity of their letting the page have all the cinders from the respective rooms throughout the house as soon as possible. Whatever cinders may be left unsifted by a given time on one day should be collected for the following morning’s sifting. Knife and boot- cleaning, being also dirty work, should, as far as possible, be prepared for quick despatch by the articles being looked up over-night, and brought to one place in readiness for the morning. Wherever these orderly arrangements are despised, the page’s life is one of incessant worry, and his untidy appearance is an indica- tion of the disorder which prevails in the household. The inevitable dust and dirt attend- ing cinder-sifting is much obviated by the use of improved sifters. These are of various kinds and excellence. A larger patent cinder-sifter, or revolving machine, is well adapted to the wants of large establishments, especially if a garden be attached to the house ; used also in connection with Moule’s earth closets, the well-sifted cinders become an article of high economy and value. Even in town residences preference should be given to some improved sifter over the untidy and wasteful habit of riddling the cinders over a dust-hole. The only means by which the latter mode can be made effectual is by placing bars across the top of the dust-bin, on which the sifter may be rested, and shaken to and fro. Most “housemaids’ boxes” are filled with a small grating for parlour cinders. A cinder-pail, also fitted with a movable wire sieve over the top, is a very useful contrivance for sifting small quantities of cinders, espe- cially if the cinders be thrown on a newly-laid fire for immediate use. Boot-cleaning almost invariably falls to a page’s share of work. At present the numberless inventions which have successfully assisted the despatch of household work seem to have fallen short of perfection in this branch of labour. The latest and best improvement is a patent boot-holder, the advantages of which consist in preserving the inside of the boots from being soiled by dirty hands, which are almost inseparable from the employment, and in setting both hands free for polishing. In the absence of a patent boot-holder, the first care of the page should be to pass a soft clean duster over the left hand before he puts the boot on it. If the boots are not very dirty, rubbing them over with a hard brush will be sufficient, but if they are very muddy, a piece of ordinary fire-wood, shaped at the end in the form of a