223 CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. \s \s texmtdjlakedpaint. None but glaziers should be expected to do this work, as it requires special treat- ment. Soda ought never to be used for paint cleaning, and very little soap. Paint is best dried with a leather, as I the latter polishes as well as dries. Grease spots on I paint may be easily removed by dipping the flannel into j a little finely powdered gilders’ whitening worked into a j paste with water. The parts only which are soiled should 1 be touched with the whitening, but if the white surface of I the paint is very dirty the mixture may be applied all ji over, wetting only as much as can be dried off at a time, j By this means the finest paint may be preserved in I beauty for a very long time. Varnished paint should only I be washed occasionally with plain cold water, applied and I dried with a wash leather. I To Clean Paper-hangings.—A split stale loaf rubbed i over the walls with a circular movement is the cheapest j and best plan. J The above are some of the chief daily duties of a house- j maid. Directions for other portions of her work, sometimes I performed by the parlour-maid, page, and laundry-maid, I will be considered in subsequent chapters. I I - J COURT MANUAL.—II. THE ROYAL FAMILY. The details respecting the reigning Sovereign of this country are naturally followed by some account of the Royal Family, and here the children of the monarch occupy the first place. Foremost among these is The Prhice of Wales.—The eldest son and heir of the Sovereign is at his birth Duke of Cornwall, and is forth- with entitled to all the revenues and rights of his Duchy. He is also born Duke of Rothsay, and Seneschal of Scot- land, but other titles, such as Earl of Chester, Prince of ‘ Wales, &c., are afterwards conferred upon him by royal patent. That the title may be granted to one who is not the son of a king, but who is, nevertheless, heir to the crown, is shown by the example of George III., whose father, Frederick, Prince of Wales, died in 1751, where- upon George was created Prince of Wales and Earl of Chester. Since the time of James I. the proper title of the eldest son and heir-apparent has been Prince of Great Britain, though he is usually styled Prince of Wales, a title derived by transfer from the Princes of Wales. The Prince of Wales is, next to the Sovereign, chief in this realm, although still a subject. His safety, and that of his wife, are guarded by special enactments, and he i enjoys peculiar privileges ; for instance, he sits at the right hand of the Sovereign in all solemn assemblies of , state and honour, and he may retain and qualify as many chaplains as he will. At a coronation he wears a mantle doubled below the elbow with ermine, spotted diamond- I wise ; and in Parliament his robe is adorned with five bars of ermine, a gold lace above each bar. He has a !| coronet of gold, consisting .of crosses-patee and Jleur-de- ji lys, one arch, and a ball and cross. He also has a plume i of three ostrich-feathers with a coronet, beneath which is j ascroll with the words “ICH DIEN” (I serve). This mark 1 of honour is traced back to the time of Edward the I Black Prince, who killed the King of Bohemia at the j Battle of Crecy, and took from him a similar plume and : motto. The Prince of Wales has a place in the House 1 of Peers, and, on his first introduction, is received with I much ceremony; he also takes the oaths and subscribes the declaration. His wife is styled Princess of Wales ; I their children are princes and princesses. ■ The Princess Royal.—This title is borne by the eldest daughter of the Sovereign. She is the only one of the ; princesses who is heir to the crown in default of male issue, and she is, therefore, more regarded by our laws than her younger sisters. The Royal Family in General.—The younger sons and daughters of the Sovereign, and other branches of the royal family, have precedence of peers and public officers, ecclesiastical and civil. Their order among themselves is determined by their relationships to one another. The members of the royal family are princes or princesses, and are all called Royal Highness. The sons, brothers, and uncles of the Sovereign are Princes of the Blood Royal; and the daughters, sisters, and aunts are Prin- cesses of the Blood Royal; all these have their distinc- tive coronets. The nephews, nieces, and cousins of the Sovereign are called Princes and Princesses of the Blood (not Blood Royal). A letter to a prince or princess of the Blood Royal is addressed “ To His (or Her) Royal Highness ; ” but a letter to a Prince or Princess of the Blood is superscribed “To His (or Her) Highness .” In the first case the letter commences “Sir” (or “Madam”) and concludes, “I remain. With the greatest respect, Sir, Your Royal Highness’ most dutiful and most obedient, humble servant.” In the other case the conclusion is, “ I have the honour to be. With great respect. Sir, Your Highness’ most obedient and very humble servant.” The forms for the wives of princes are similar. The marriages of the Royal Family are regulated by Act of Parliament, 12 Geo. II. c. ii. ; but no act interferes with the free choice of the Sovereign. The chief provi- sions of the law are, that none of the Royal Family under the age of twenty-five may marry without the consent of the Sovereign, but that after that age they may, under certain conditions, do so. It may be observed that no one who is not a Protestant can succeed to the throne of these realms. By the Articles of Union the Protestant succession of the House of Hanover is a fundamental part of our constitution. THE PEERAGE. Under this name are included several degrees of rank, some of them very ancient, and all of them very honour- able. The word is used as a general designation for the titled nobility of Great Britain and Ireland, and properly denotes their equality. There are, however, several de- grees of rank, viz., duke, marquis, earl, viscount, and baron ; and, not unfrequently, one man possesses several of these titles. The House of Lords consists of peers, and includes the peers of England, of Great Britain, and of the United Kingdom, the representative peers of Ire- land] and Scotland, and certain bishops and archbishops —the latter being the lords spiritual, and the former the lords temporal. The titles of the lords temporal are usually hereditary, but not always ; and some of the titles which belong to peers are titles of courtesy only, and give no right to a seat with the peers in the House of Lords. Ladies may be peeresses in their own right, and the wives of peers bear titles corresponding with those of their husbands, and as such are called peeresses. GARDENING.—X. THE VEGETABLE GARDEN. The chapters hitherto given on the subject of gardening must be regarded as merely preliminary. We shall now take up in order, and describe in detail, the three great divisions of the garden, as comprising vegetables, fruits, and flowers. Of these the vegetables claim our first atten- tion, because of their constant use as articles of diet, in which respect they occupy a more prominent position