CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. 2II I Bictter is obtained by churning cream, and, when ,1 separated from the non-fatty part of milk, is well washed j and pressed, to get rid of the butter-milk, which contains ,1 nitrogenous matter; but with the utmost care all the i butter-milk cannot be removed, so that after keeping ! i some time, butter becomes rank and offensive to the j taste and smell. Salt butter, when good, usually contains i about 6 to 8 per cent, of salt, 8 to 12 per cent, of water, ' some curd, and about 82 to 84 per cent, of butter-fat. Fresh butter should not contain more than from 6 to 8 i per cent, of water. The quantity imported into this country has considerably increased of late years, as in 1871 we received from the United States butter to the I' value of-^394,359, from France as much as ^1,636,006, and from Germany £giy,2Sg, making a total from these countries of ^2,947,654. In 1875 the sum was larger, as I! the value imported from the United States was ;^265,9oo, from France, the enormous amount of .1^3,387,219, and I from Germany ^643,906, making an aggregate of !l ^4,297,025, which, large as it is, is less by nearly half a million than in 1874. Butter was also imported from !i Denmark and Holland, but the value is not separately I specified in the official returns. The total weight im- |i ported in 1875 was 1,467,870 cwts., and the aggregate |i; value .^8,502,084; and in 1876 it had increased to ,! ^9,702,624. Cheese was imported in 1875 to a larger amount than I in any other year, the total weight being 1,627,000 cwts., il of which 1,238,660 cwts. came from the United States I and Canada. The importations have increased so rapidly that they are nearly double what they were eight years [ ago. The total value in 1875 was ^4,709,508, of which ; ^2,786,027 worth came from the United States ; but in i 1876 the total value had decreased to ;^4,251,428. Cheese I is obtained from milk by causing the curd to separate by ! the action of an acid—rennet being generally used in, this ‘ country. Some cheese is made from skim milk, whilst others are made from whole milk, with or without added cream, as in the case of Stilton. Gruy^re and Parmesan are obtained from goats’ milk, or a mixture of cows’ il and goats’ milk. It is richer in nutritive elements than any other human food, containing more nitrogenised matter, and generally more fat than meat. Roquefort I cheese contains the least and Neufchatel the most Il water, whilst the Roquefort and Stilton possess the largest I, proportion of fat. Parmesan cheese is made from skim I milk, and is usually kept some time before use. Cream cheese is in reality little else than new curd, and has but |l little flavour until it has been kept a few days. ;i Lard is a very pure fat, and is derived from the loose ' fat of the pig by what is termed retidering it—an operation which requires great care. Canadian lard is often mixed with water to the extent of 15 to 20 per cent., while the best lard is either dry or does not contain more than i or 2 per cent., and a small quantity of salt. The value of lard imported from the United States and Canada in 1875 reached the large sum of ,,61,634,769, its weight being 540,244 cwts.; in 1876 the value was £i,S7o,6^4. FISH. The fish most used in this country are the sole, turbot, brill, cod, haddock, plaice, ling, whiting, herring, mackerel, sprat, pilchard, skate, sturgeon, halibut, john-dory, mullet, flounder, dab, eel, salmon, trout, char, bream, pike, carp, tench, roach, dace, perch, smelt, gur- nard, whitelrait, anchovy, and sardine. In addition to these we may mention oysters, lobsters, crayfish, crabs, mussels, cockles, whelks, limpets, and scallops, as well as turtle. Fish are out of condition, and consequently more or less unfit for food, in the spawning season, as the muscular structure becomes impoverished, especially about the abdomen. As a rule, fish begin to deteriorate as soon as the roe has acquired more than half its full size, and is decidedly inferior in nutritive value and flavour just before spawning, so that a full-roed fish should not be selected, unless it be for the sake of its roe. Fish may be divided as food into two classes— viz., the red-blooded and the white-blooded. Amongst the former the salmon may be taken as the type, and of the latter, the cod. As a rule, the flesh of red-blooded fish contains more oil, and possesses a higher nutritive value, than that of white fish ; indeed, the difference in the nutritive value of fish is greater than obtains in the flesh of mammalia. The salmon, eel, mackerel, and herring are probaby the most nutritious fish used in this country. Several kinds of fish are pre- served, either by salting, smoking, or other process. The chief of these are cod, herrings, pilchards, salmon, had- docks, anchovies, and sardines. The roe of fish is nutri- tious, and is often dried, as, for instance, that of the salmon and cod; whilst that of the sturgeon is also imported from Russia, under the name of caviare, and is much esteemed. The value of cured or salted fish im- ported into this country in 1875 was ;i61,042,961, and of other fish ^223,616, making a total of ^1,266,577, of which ^283,220 worth came from France. The total weight was 840,090 cwts. The value in 1876 was about ^150,000 more than in 1875. Turbot {Pleuronectes maxinius') is the best and one of the largest of our flat fish. It inhabits the northern and Mediterranean seas, but the best is taken off the Dutch coast, and is generally somewhat scarce and dear, although above 100,000 are brought to Billingsgate in a year. The turbot-fishing begins about the end of March and ends in September. The fish are taken by trawling m comparatively shoal water, and with hook and line in deep water. Those caught off the Scotch coast are not so fine-flavoured nor so high-priced as the others. Brill {Pleuronectus rhovibics') closely resembles turbot in its shape, but is superior to it in flavour and size. When large and in good condition, it is a fine fish. It is caught on most parts of our coasts, but the London market is chiefly supplied from the southern coast. Sole {Pletironectics soled) is usually much smaller than the brill, but some taken off Plymouth have been nearly two feet long, and weighed as much as six or seven pounds. The best are obtained near Plymouth and Torbay, but those from the vicinity of Dover are considered nearly as good. They are caught off various parts of the Irish coast, as well as in the Mediterranean and Baltic Seas. There are several varieties of sole besides the common species— viz., the lemon sole, variegated sole, the zebra sole, the silver sole, but they are not so abundant. At the latter end of February they are usually full of roe, when their flesh is watery, but they soon recover. As, however, they do not all spawn quite at the same time, soles in good condition can be obtained nearly all the year round. ADVICE TO LODGERS. In England a lodger may be generally defined as an under-tenant, who is responsible for only a part of the rent of the house he lives in, and who is not called upon to pay the taxes levied upon it. His liabilities as a tenant are limited to the householder, who is accountable to the owner for the rent of the whole tenement, to the parish for all the parochial rates, and to the Crown for the Queen’s taxes. Many persons take houses the whole of which they cannot, need not, or will not occupy, and they usually do this for the sake of some advantage to them- selves. So, also, many persons for divers reasons prefer to rent only part of a house, and to become lodgers. To multitudes of unmarried men and women, professional persons, small families, and families with limited resources.