CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. 73 thus be transported for a long distance with relays of bearers, the two working together being as nearly as possible of a height. Dislocations.—A dislocation, like a fracture, should , always be submitted to the care of a sur- geon as soon as pos- sible. When a bone has slipped from its socket the limb is use- less, and there is more or less pain, and the neighbourhood of the joint is deformed. A dislocation of the shoulder is at once the most common, the most painful, and the most readily reduced of these accidents, and we venture, therefore, to give a few hints for its treatment. A fall into a ditch is a com- mon cause of this accident, the elbow being caught on the bank and suddenly thrust upwards, when the head of the bone slips out of its socket and into the arm-pit, giving rise to ex- cruciating pain from its pressure upon the large nerves. This being an acci- dent which may happen to a rider when hunting, or when unable to obtain assistance, he may safely make an attempt to reduce the arm him- self, by using a gate for the purpose of a fulcrum, as shown in Fig. 18, Here, lifting his arm over the gate with the other hand, the patient grasps the lowest bar he can reach, and allows the weight of his body to hang on the other side of the gate until by the pressure of the top bar the bone is forced into its socket with a snap. Another method, which may be safely employed by a by- stander, is to seat the sufferer in a strong chair and to put the foot on the seat with the bent knee under the dislocated shoulder, as shown in Fig. 20. The arm is then to be grasped and forcibly bent over the knee, when the dislocation will probably be reduced ; no more violent efforts are justifiable in the hands of non-professional persons, and in any case, even of reduced dis- location, the patient should be seen by a surgeon as soon as it is convenient, lest any other injury which he may have sustained at the same time should have been over- looked. Burns and Scalds.—Burns are probably not quite so frequent as scalds, but are much more alarm- ing at the time of their occurrence, and, if severe, are much more serious in their results than scalds. The slightest form of burn, viz., a superficial burn or scorch. merely reddening without destroying the skin, may be pro- duced by a slight explosion of gas, or the ignition of some article of clothing, which has been rapidly extinguished. Here the pain is severe for the moment, but rapidly sub- sides as soon as the surface burnt is pro- tected. This can be readily effected by dredging flour over the part, and wrapping it up in cotton wad- ding ; or, should the part burnt be one not readily covered in this way, e.g., the face, by painting it over with a mixture of equal parts of collodion and castor- oil, or with a solution of nitrate of silver, such as the nitrate- bath of photography. When the burn is more severe, little blisters rapidly form on the burnt part, and these vesicles, as they are surgically termed, re- quire careful treatment. If, as is sometimes re- commended, these ve- sicles are left to them- selves, the contents solidify, and a jelly-like mass is left, w'hich has afterwards to be got rid of by poulticing, to the great discomfort of the patient; or, even if this coagulation does not take place, the thin scarf-skin or cuticle raised by the blister is apt to be torn away and leave a tender surface beneath. The best plan, therefore, is at once to prick the blisters on one side with a needle, or to make a small opening with a sharp pair of scissors, and then carefully to- squeeze out the watery contents, pressing down the skin gently but firmly with a piece of cotton wool. When this has been done, the case may be treated by any of the methods already given for slight burns, but it must be borne in mind that fresh vesicles may form after the first dressing, and hence great care must be taken, in the subsequent dressings, not to tear open the blisters un- intentionally. Scalds closely re- semble slight burns in both their symptoms and treatment, and need not, therefore, be treated of at greater length. Severe burns, such as arise from the clothes taking fire—crinoline accidents, as they used to be called—are very serious, both as regards the life of the patient, and her future comfort, should she survive ; and medical at- tendance should be immediately obtained. Lacking this, however, it may be noted that the immediate danger to the sufferer’s life is due to the violent “ shock” which the system sustains, as is shown by the faint, semi-conscious, and pallid condition in which the patient is left when the conflagration is extinguished. The proper treatment will