85 CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. chisel will be required to be used obliquely sometimes, in order to prize out the slips, which would otherwise clog the hole. About the depth of two cuts should reach the centre of the block, when the log must be turned over, and worked from the other side, until the two holes meet in one and so form the mortice. Even though the wood to be morticed were very thin, it would be necessary to commence from both sides, or the edges of the work, supposing the chisel to come right through from either side to the other, would be splintered and uneven from being forcibly bulged out. The oblique ends, E F, of the hole are afterwards cut from the fop of the log, to make room for the wedges, H I, in N o. 2. Clean out the ragged parts inside the mortice, with a wide, thin-bladed chisel, and drive in the tenon; from the under side, it should project about a quarter of an inch through the top. Now drive in the wedges, H i, lightly, saw off all that projects above the surface, and plane smooth. If the directions have been attended to, and the work accurately done, the joints should fit exactly, with- out play or looseness, and the shoulders should come well up to the under side of the block. Should it be required to remove the tenon from the mortice, before finally wedging up, the mor- ticed block. No. I, must be tapped on the side from which the tenon enters it. The weight of the block and the force of inertia will cause it to jerk out a little at each tap. Any at- tempt to force it out from the top would spread the fibres in the tenon, and rivet it more firmly in its place. This joint will tax the powers of the novice, but will be found capital prac- tice, and in after work we shall have constant need of it, as it is about the most important joint in carpentry. The correct pro- portion for the thickness of the tenons is rather more than one- third the total thick- ness of the morticed log,but the drawing is purposely made with the tenon larger for distinctness. For the best work, two tenons are used, as Fig. 43, ranged side by side on the end of the log, and fitting into two corresponding mortices, in which case the lines A BCD are sawn down with the half-rip saw, the space E being removed with the mor- tice-chisel. It is often necessary to join beams together end-wise, and in Fig. 44 we show one of many methods of doing this. The ends of the logs A and B are shaped as there shown, leaving a space at c where the diagram is shaded, and into this space the rectangular piece C is Fig 42. .^c 1 < ® i ^ 1 Fig. 44- A B C D fWVVv Fig. 43. driven tightly, thereby closing the joint well up at the angles F G, which are the holding part of the joint. At D and E, as shown by the dotted lines, holes are bored with an auger, and wooden pins driven in, making all secure and immovable. It must be remembered that no joint, . however well .constructed and executed, is so sound and strong as the same size of solid wood, and, therefore, piecing should be avoided, if consistent with efficiency. We next come to dove-tail- ing, which, though not by any means difficult, will, neverthe- less, require considerable care and dexterity to produce accurate work. We will suppose we re- quire to make a box two feet long, one foot thick, and one foot deep, of inch material. For this, we shall want ten feet six inches of inch board, twelve inches wide, but, as deal is only usually nine inches wide, we shall have to glue up three inches more, to make the right width. Cut up the planks into lengths of two feet one inch each, and strip down ten feet three inches wide, and cut also into the same lengths. Plane, or shoot, as it is called, one edge of each width, perfectly true, and square carefully, testing the accuracy with the square and straight-edge, and then with a brush smother the planed edges with hot glue rather thin. N ow place the pieces edge to edge, and press evenly and smoothly, so as to force out all the superfluous glue, sliding the edges a little across each other. Be very care- ful to bring the pieces back flush and level. It will be necessary to leave these boards for some hours under pres- sure, and when perfectly dry, if properly done, the glue joint will be stronger than the wood is itself. The essence of success is the com- plete exclusion of the excess of glue. These pieces must be carefully planed up smooth, and the edges shot and squared. Next square up the ends, and reduce the length of two pieces to two feet and a quarter of an inch for the front and back, and of two for the ends for one foot and a quarter of an inch. The quarter inch is for a slight overplus it is usual to leave until the joint is finished, when it is planed off true. N ow rule off on the end of each of the four pieces, and on both sides, a space equal to the thickness the wood is reduced to and the above overplus. These marks, will show the exact size of the interior of the box, when complete. The dove-tail joint, Fig. 45, consists of the pin A and the dove-tail B—the pins being usually made first—and should be on the end or short side of the