53 CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. nature and severity of the injury itself, it may be sus- pected that some internal injury has been received—as shown by long-continued faintness, by hiccup, or pain in the abdomen or chest—immediate recourse should be had to medical aid. Concussion of the Brain is the common result of a con- tusion of the head, and cannot be too seriously regarded. In any case of injury to the head, where insensibility has occurred, a doctor should be sent for ; but even in slighter cases, when the concussion has apparently only produced a temporary dizziness, careful treatment, both at the time and after the injury, will be necessary to restore the patient to a healthy state of both mind and body. In any case of insensibility from injury to the head, no harm can possibly be done by cutting the hair close, and applying cold to the head until the surgeon’s arrival; or should this be delayed, and the patient’s body be cold and the skin clammy, hot bottles may be put to the feet in addi- tion. Beyond this, however, it is never safe for a non-pro- fessional person to go in a case of severe injury to the head ; and most particularly ought the administration of stimulants in any form to be avoided. Sprains.—K severely sprained ankle is a common, and at the same time a serious, accident. As it is very pos- sible that the accidental twisting of the foot to one side may have broken the small bone of the leg near the ankle, such a case should always be seen as soon as possijale by a medical man. But if the sprain is of a sufficiently slight character to be treated domestically, it should be borne in mina that complications may occur at a later period, for which medical advice should not be too long delayed. In the case of a sprained ankle, it is of the first importance to get the boot off before the swelling, which invariably follows, has come on. If the accident has happened at a distance from home, the foot should then be firmly bound up with a bandage applied round the ankle in a series of figure of 8 loops, and the foot kept in an elevated posture during the conveyance of the patient to his home. On reaching home, the bandage is to be removed, and the foot assi- duously fomented with water as hot as can be borne, until the pain is relieved ; some tincture of arnica or poppy-heads being useful adjuncts to the fomentation. The application of leeches to bad sprains is often of service, but it is not safe to have recourse to them without medical sanction. The use of cold applica- tions to sprains, though popular, is not to be recom- mended. The cold lowers the vitality of the part, and tends to prevent the very repair which it is our object to bring about. Support and rest are the points to be insisted on, and these are most readily obtained by strapping the joint firmly with adhesive plaister, so that no movement of the ankle is possible. In order to do this, it is necessary to have a yard or two of good “ strapping ” or “soap plaister,” so that the pieces required may be cut “in the length” of the calico. Strips long enough to encircle the foot and cross by some inches, are to be cut, and must be thoroughly warmed, one by one, either by holding them with the plain side to the fire, or, better, by plunging them for a moment into a basin of hot water. The foot being then brought Fig. 13. to a right angle with the leg, and supported on the heel at a convenient height, the strips of plaister are to be applied as follows Beginning near the roots of the toes, the first strip is to be passed beneath the sole, and the ends crossed over the instep, and each strap is to be placed nearer the heel, and to overlap its predecessor for about half its width. When half a dozen straps have thus been applied, another series is to be made to pass around the upper part of the joint horizontally, crossing the first set on the instep, and thus the whole joint will be supported and compressed, and the patient will be able to get about (Fig. 13). A bandage should be applied over the plaister, to keep it from slip- ping. In a couple of days the plaister will have become loose, owing to the subsidence of the swelling, and must be renewed, the old plaister being most easily removed by slipping the blunt end of a pair of scissors beneath it on one side of the foot, and dividing it so that it can be taken away in one piece. For a sprain of mode- rate severity the plaister will require renewing three or four times; but even when its use is abandoned, it will be advisable to employ a bandage or an elastic “ foot- piece” for some time, as the foot will still require support. A sprain of one of the larger joints, and especially of the knee, is a serious injury ; and if any severe symptoms show themselves, immediate recourse must be had to medical aid. When a knee merely gives way occasion- ally under a person when walking, and there is no swelling or heat about the part, it will often be of service to support the joint with a knee-cap, which may be of elastic material, and is better made to lace up than to draw over the leg. When the joint continues weak for some time, it may be advantageously treated like an ankle by strapping, the plaister being cut long enough to go once-and-a-half round the joint, and about an inch in width. The straps are then made to over- lap in regular series, from below upwards, crossing in front until the joint is completely covered, as seen in the illustration. Fig. 14. A Strain is much the same as a sprain, except that it does not necessarily occur in the neighbour- hood of a joint. It consists in the tearing of some tendinous or mus- cular fibres, and is generally the result of some violent and un- wonted exertion. The treatment consists in obtaining rest and support for the part by careful bandaging, the use of a sling, &c. The term “ a strain ’’ is sometimes applied by the lower classes to the occurrence of a rupture from some violent exertion. If any swelling should be noticed in the neighbourhood of the groin after some exertion or athletic exercise, a surgeon should be immediately consulted, as the case may be a serious one, and a little delay be a matter of life or death. COOKERY.—IV. SIMPLE RECIPES {continuedfrom p. 37). Suet Dumpling.—This is an excellent dish both for rich and poor, for several reasons. It is wholesome, pleasant, and cheap ; it may be made more or less sub- stantial ; and its flavour may be varied according to taste ; it can be eaten either as a savoury or as a sweet. Its value as nourishment consists in its containing a good proportion of fat. Writers on cookery cannot too strongly insist, and mothers of families cannot be too fully per- suaded, that a certain quantity of fat in our daily food is absolutely necessary to health. Young people, espe- cially, who have not enough of it to eat, are more liable than others to fall into a consumption at the period when they are. making rapid growth. To such persons fat. in the shape pf cod-liver oil, is administered as a medicine;