35° OCCUPATIONS ACCESSIBLE TO WOMEN. 'Jaundice.—Jaundice is a disease easily recognised by non-medical persons, for its chief sign is a yellowness of the skin and of the white of the eye. There may be any degree of this discoloration from slight yellow, such as is seen in most babies a few days after birth, to intense green yellowness, such as often shows disease of the liver. The motions are pale and without their usual colour. There is indigestion, flatulence, and dislike for fatty matters, which are not easily digested. There may be pain over the stomach and liver, or there may not be any pain, and as we have implied, the skin and the eyes get yellow, because what should be separated from the blood by the liver, is not, and gets into all parts of the system. The bowels are generally costive. Causes.—Now this state of jaundice may arise either because no bile is formed in the liver, or because, after being formed, it does not get into the intestine. This last is the most common case of jaundice. It may be stopped from getting into the intestine by something blocking up the ducts which convey the bile ; one of the most common, and really a very common, cause of ob- struction to the flow of the bile is the formation of little stones in the gall bladder—gall stones—-which in passing through the duct that connects the gall bladder with the intestine give rise to severe symptoms, which we shall now describe. Symptoms of Gall Stones.—Probably after some un- easiness about the right side there sets in, often suddenly, severe pain in the right side or more towards the stomach, so severe as to make the patient writhe. Vomiting soon comes on and is troublesome, though it tends to relieve the pain. The pulse is not much quickened, nor is there much fever. There is often more or less of the yellow tinge of jaundice in the skin or in the eye, and then one may be pretty sure that the case is one of gall stones. In such cases the motions passed after the pain has ceased often contain stones, and should always be care- fully examined. Another common cause of jaundice is v/hen the little ducts we have mentioned become inflamed, and their walls get thickened, and the passage of bile along them is hindered. There is a form of jaundice, occurring in summer or autumn, which we may call painless jaundice, that is not uncommon. It is jaundice and nothing more than that, and the heavy indolent state that accompanies it. The most unfavourable cases of jaundice are those which occur in older people, and especially in those who have lived very hard, or very anxiously; and in which, notwithstanding the use of means, the jaundice persists. Treatmc7it.—The reader will not expect us to advise him to treat himself for a complaint which may depend on many different states, and requires very various treat- ment. But we shall aim at giving a few useful hints to persons affected with gall stones, or having occasional attacks of jaundice. Gall stones occur most frequently in women, and in those who lead a somewhat easy or rather indoor life, especially if they take beer or porter, and have a tendency to become stout. Such persons should live carefully and be chary of beer, and should take exercise in the open air. When an attack of sudden pain from gall stones comes on, a doctor should be sent for. Hot fomentations to the side, drinks of warm water, and hot applications to the feet, should all be used. If the pain is very severe, and a doctor cannot be had, ten drops of laudanum may be given to a grown-up person, and may even be repeated in an hour or two if relief does not come. If, however, the pain shows any tendency to yield to the former measures, the laudanum should be dispensed with. Lastly, let us say a word to hard livers, and all who are conscious that they drink more than is good for them. Whenever they see their eyes or skin getting yellow, let them know that their sin is finding them out, and that it is beginning to affect very vital parts, and that if they do not take thought and mend, they will go steadily from bad to worse. But, in such cases, it is often wonderful how improvement in health follows improvement in habits. OCCUPATIONS ACCESSIBLE TO WOMEN.—VI. THE PRACTICE OF MEDICINE. Whatever maybe the opinion we individually hold upon the propriety of women entering the medical profession, the fact that the University of London contemplates admitting them to degrees (thus recognising and giving its sanction to the movement) renders it impossible for us, in a series of papers on the “ Occupations Accessible to Women,” to omit a full discussion of the subject. The difficulties surmounted by women in their desire to become doctors have been many and great. Even when, in the face of all discouragements, they had obtained the neces- sary education, they could find no board in Great Britain authorised to grant degrees ; for up to the present time all English degree-granting bodies have shut them out entirely. The only way of obtaining them has been at the Universities of Paris and Zurich, both of which admit them to all their classes without reserve. The first boon conferred on English aspirants for medical honours was granted by the Edinburgh Infirmary, which admitted them, some years ago, to its wards and classes on payment of the ordinary fee. They were not allowed to receive prizes, nor to be admitted to examina- tions. A Female Medical School was founded in 1874, in Henrietta Street, Brunswick Square, and opened with twenty-three students. The average attendance has been about twenty-eight annually. Mr. A. T. Norton, of St. Mary’s Hospital, is at present dean of the school, in suc- cession to the late Dr. Anstie, who was one of its most energetic promoters. The soundness of the teaching these students receive is guaranteed by the reputation of its lecturers, who are, some of them, men of much distinc- tion in their profession. The establishment of the Hospital for Women, in the Marylebone Road, by Mrs. Garrett- Anderson, has enabled students to complete their training by the necessary course of clinical study. At very nearly the end of the last session of Parlia- ment a short Bill was passed, by which the powers of any body qualified to grant medical registration were extended to the granting of such qualification to all persons, “ with- out distinction of sex.” At the same time, it was provided that nothing should “ render compulsory the exercise of such powers.” In simpler words, all bodies entitled to give degrees were to be permitted, if they chose, to grant them to women, but were not compelled to do so. This permissive Act has opened the doors of several colleges to women, the first to take advantage of it being the King’s and Queen’s College of Physicians, in Ireland. Then the Royal Free Hospital, in London, consented to make arrangements for the clinical instruction of the students of the School of Medicine for Women, the establishment of which, in 1874, we have just mentioned ; and the recent decision of th^e Senate of the University of London seems likely to' remove the last lingering barrier. It is quite possible for any woman who can command a small income, or a few hundred pounds, to obtain a thorough medical education. Four or five years are required to complete the curriculum of study. It is very important to acquire the habit of study; and, before commencing the study of medicine, some preliminary knowledge of Latin, German, and French, as well as mathematics, will be especially useful to a student.