66 COOKERY. the clenched hand turned outwards (Fig. 12). Carry the arm successively to A, B, and c, returning the forearm against the waist between each of these movements. 4. Place the clenched hand with the thumb in front on the back of the hips, the back of the hand upwards, the elbows pressed together behind (Fig. 13). Carry the hand sharply down to B, and back to the original position, then to C and back, and finally to D, describing in doing so the arc A to D. 5. The heels together, the body erect, the hands hanging down at the side. Bring the hands together in front, the fingers touching. Raise them thus above the head, the elbows pressed back, the shoulders down. Separate and extend the arms till they are on a line with the shoulders, and then let them fall at the side again. 6. Turn the palms of the hands to the front, raise them above the head till the thumbs are touching (Fig. 14), then, keeping the arms and knees straight, bend forward from the waist till the hands touch the feet, then raise the body, and return to the original position. 7. Make the forearms meet side by side on the chest, the hands closed, the knuckles outwards. Throw the arms forcibly back, the palm and wrist forward. Repeat four times. Now follow the shoulder, exercises, which tend to enlarge the cavity of the chest, and bring into healthful movement the muscles which raise the upper ribs and shoulders. Begin with the heels together, the hands hanging down by the side, the palms turned inwards, the elbows unbent, the head straight. 1. Raise the right shoulder four times sharply, and as high as possible, lowering it gently, then the left, then alternately, and then together, without moving the head or the rest of the body (Fig. 15). 2. Raise the elbows to the height of the shoulders. Place the hands in the armpits, with the thumb outwards (Fig. 16). Carry the hand from A to B four times, first the right hand, then the left, then alternately, then together, four times each,returning to the original position. Next carry the hands from A to c, four times each arm, four times alternately, four times together. 3. Extend the elbow in a line with the shoulder, the wrist turned downwards, so that the tips of the fingers rest on the point of the shoulder (Fig. 17). Carry the hands to A, B, and c, each four times, returning always to the original position. 4. Place the fingers against the shoulders in front, where they and the arms join, the thumbs upwards, the elbows in a line (Fig. 18). Carry the arms straight out in front, then sideways, and then back as far as they will go, returning to the first position between each. Trtmk and Waist Exercises.—Body erect, the hands on the hips, the knees unbent. Move the body slowly, sideways, four times to the right—the head bending downwards—four times to the left, and four times alter- nately. Then bend the upper part of the body backwards and forwards in the same order, but only from the hips : there must be no movement whatever below the waist. In learning dancing, women are taught the exercises specially adapted for the knees and legs, which will be duly described in a separate paper on dancing. The benefit of chest exercises, ist, 2nd, 3rd, and 4th; shoulder exercises, 3rd and 4th ; elbow exercises (to be described in our next paper), ist, 2nd, 4th, and 5th, may be enhanced by carrying on simultaneous and corresponding move- ments with the feet, sometimes letting the right foot ac- company the left arm, and so on. In No. 5 of chest exercises, the pupil at the word “ Charge ” should ad- vance the right foot forward, and repeat the exercise with the weight of the body resting on that foot, return- ing to the original position. All these exercises require music or a continuous system of counting. The instructor must give the commands in a clear, firm voice, and the pupils should be placed at regular intervals, in full view of the teacher ; great care should also be taken that they are not over-fatigued, and that they maintain a proper position throughout: an undue weight being laid on either foot or side of the body having an injurious effect. COOKERY.—V. SIMPLE RECIPES [continuedfrom p. Sausage Rolls.—Lay one sausage whole, without re- moving the skin, in the middle of the rolled-out pie-crust, and then proceed as with apple-rolls. This is capital, cold or hot, for hungry boys. Beef Pudding.,—Cut beef into bits half the size of a walnut, fat and lean together ; they need not be the primest parts. Make them into a pudding, as you would make apple-pudding, seasoning with pepper, salt, allspice, and chopped onions. Put in a little water to make gravy. People that can get them, add mushrooms and oysters ; but these are not absolutely necessary. This pudding takes a great deal of boiling. Saffron Cakes or Btms are a nice little treat for chil- dren ; pretty to look at, and easy to make. Their slight medicinal quantity is stimulant—likely to do more good than harm. Their tendency is to help digestion, and they i are said to kill or drive out intestinal worms. To make i your saffron loaves, cakes, or buns, buy at the druggist’s ' as small a quantity of saffron as he will sell. Infuse enough of this in the water with which you make your dough as to give it a clear, light, yellow tinge, and the decided taste and smell peculiar to the flower, both which it will retain after baking. Then make'your cake exactly as the gateau—directions for making which were given in a previous number (page 37)—with the addition of a little sugar, and taking care that it rises well. If to be kept some time, make it into good-sized loaves; if to be consumed or distributed immediately, make it into small buns or rolls. Bake in a moderate oven, neither fierce nor slack. Good Cotnmon Cake.—Mix a teaspoonful of good yeast with half a pint of milk ; warm it slightly; stir it into twO’ and a half pounds of flour, and half a pound of brown sugar, and set it to rise. Then melt half a pound of butter with another half-pint of milk, and add it to the former ingre- dients, with half a pound of washed currants, or a few' caraway seeds a little bruised. Again leave it for awhile to rise. When well risen, put it into tins, and bake. Pancakes.—As these are a holiday treat, you will try and make them z.s good as you can. Shrove Tuesday comes but once a year. Allow eight eggs to a pound of flour. Separate the yolks from the whites. With the flour mix the yolks, a pinch of salt, a little milk, and some good yeast. The quality of the yeast is more important than the quantity. Beat the whites of the eggs to a froth with a little milk; this is done to help the yeast in making the pancakes light. Mix this with the flour and other in- gredients. Stir in as much more tepid milk as will bring the whole to the thickness of batter. Some people add a glass of rum or brandy, and a little grated nutmeg. Cover with a cloth, and set it for two or three hours somewhere near the Are, to rise. Always wipe out your frying-pan immediately before using it. You may have hung it up clean, but dust falls, blacks fly, and rust goes to work. When the pan is warm, put in a liberal quantity of dripping, pork lard, or butter. When that is hot, pour into the middle of the pan enough batter4o make a pancake. As it fries, keep raising the edges with a knife or with a flsh- slice. When the under side is done, turn it quickly, taking care not to break it; to do this cleverly requires practice.