9 CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. DOMESTIC SURGERY.—I. h.^;morrhage. Bleeding, which is a constant accompaniment of acci- dental cuts and wounds, is always very alarming to non- professional bystanders, and it occasionally happens that for want of knowing how to arrest it readily, serious results occur before the arrival of professional aid. In order to be able to stop bleeding the reader must under- stand that blood may be poured out in two ways—ist, pumped out in jets of a bright red colour, in which case one of the arteries which convey the blood from the heart to the surface is wounded ; or, 2ndly, it may flow out in a dark-coloured continuous stream from the veins which return the blood from the limbs to the heart. It is evident, then, that the wound of an artery of large possible by a medical man, and the bandage should on no account be interfered with before his arrival. Before explaining the mode of applying the dressings necessary to restrain haemorrhage of an ordinary kind, it will be advisable to say a few words about bandages. A bandage or roller is simply a strip of calico, six yards in length, and from two to three inches in width. Soft un- bleached calico or coarse cambric is the best for this purpose, but on an emergency any suitable material may be employed; and for binding up fingers broad tape or narrow ribbon is very convenient. In order to use a bandage properly it must be rolled neatly and tightly from one or both ends, as seen in Fig. 2 ; but it is only the “ single-headed roller,” or that rolled from one end, which can be required in domestic surgery. A bandage may either be rolled by keeping it tight with the thumb and fingers of the left hand, whilst being roUed size will give rise to the most serious form ot bleeding, and as the blood in this case is flowing from the heart to the circumference, we must arrest it between the trunk and the wound by compressing the main artery. On the other hand, if the bleeding is from the wound or rupture of a large vein, the point for the application of the pressure will be either upon or below the wound. In the case of the upper arm the principal artery runs along the inner side of the limb, where it may easily be felt beating, and in the case of arterial bleeding from the hand or arm, pressure can be efficiently obtained by tying a strong tape or handkerchief around the arm and tightening it by twisting a stick in it on the outer side of the limb, as shown in the cut. Fig. i. In the thigh the main artery runs down the middle of the front of the limb, and can be controlled in the same way as in the arm. In both cases the introduction of a wine cork beneath the handkerchief in the situation of the vessel will lead to more efficient pressure upon it, and without so much tightening of the bandage as would be otherwise necessary. This mode of extemporising what is surgically called a tourniquet, is of course only for temporary employment, and any case in which the bleeding has been severe enough to require its use should be seen as soon as with the right, as shown in Fig. 3 ; or this may be more conveniently and rapidly done by using both hands for rolling, whilst the bandage is kept on the stretch by an assistant, as shown in Fig. 4. In bleeding from slight cuts about the fingers and hand, plaister (either court or adhesive) may be con- veniently employed if a bandage is used over it at first, and until the plaister has become firmly fixed ; but when the wound is considerable it is better to use other means. A piece of lint or soft linen should be placed over the wound, and over this a bandage should be firmly applied, and should extend if possible a little above and below the seat of the injury. In the case of a finger a roll of tape may be taken, and ten or twelve inches being drawn out and left loose, the finger should be rolled in a series of spiral turns from the web to the nail, where the spiral arrangement being reversed, the tape can be carried back again and across the back of the hand, and tied round the wrist with the end left out as in Fig. 5. If the wound is in the ball of the thumb the bleeding is often sufficiently severe to require medical attendance, and this should be obtained, if possible ; though the vulgar fear of “lock-jaw” from an injury of this kind is unfounded. When it is necessary to bind up the thumb the broad tape