217 CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. j POULTRY.—VII. ii TURKEYS AND GUINEA-FOWL. I The most opposite opinions have been expressed by dif- |i ferent breeders as to whether or not the rearing of turkeys i in England can be made profitable ; and the getieral [ judgment, we are bound to say, seems to be that they can t: barely be made to repay the cost of their food. There are ( not wanting, however, those who from their own experi- ence maintain the contrary ; and we believe that where |i the balance-sheet is unsatisfactory, the cause will generally i be found in heavy losses from want of care. The usual i: mortality in turkey-chicks is tremendous, and quite sufifi- 1 cient to eat up any possible amount of profit ; but there i are persons who for years have reared every chick; and, j under these circumstances, they will yield a fair return. several after commencing incubation. In a state of nature, the turkey-cock is constantly seeking to destroy both the eggs and the chickens, which the female as sedulously endeavours to conceal from him. There is generally more or less of the same disposition when domesticated, and, when it appears, it must be carefully provided against. The turkey-hen is very prudish, but gives scarcely any trouble while sitting. She sits so con- stantly that it is needful to remove her daily from her nest to feed, or she would absolutely starve. Nevertheless, when absent she is apt to be forgetful, and therefore, if allowed to range at liberty, care should be taken that she returns in time—twenty minutes. Besides her daily feed, a water vessel and some soft food should be always within her reach. No one must visit the hatching-house but the regular attendant, or the hens will get startled, and pro- I The number of hens allowed to a turkey-cock ought to 1 be limited to twelve or fifteen—quite enough brood stock I for even a large establishment. The turkey-cock may be 1! used for breeding at two years old, and the hen at twelve 1 months, but are not in their prime till a year older. They will be first-class breeding stock, as a rule, for at least !i two years later, and many cocks will breed splendid :l chickens for considerably longer ; a good bird should I not therefore be discarded till his progeny show symptoms ' of degeneracy. The size of the hens is of special import- : ance, much more than that of the cock, in whom good I shape, strength, and spirit are of more value, if combined : with a fair good size. The turkey-hen generally lays about eighteen eggs—sometimes only ten or a dozen, and when i each egg has been taken away when laid, it may be more. We once heard of ninety eggs being laid by a turkey-hen, ! but can scarcely credit such a statement. A very good j plan is to give a turkey’s first seven eggs to a common hen—quite as many as she can cover—when there will I be just about enough laid subsequently to be hatched by I the turkey herself. The best time to hatch the chicks out is in the months of May and June, or even July ; and j eggs set should be marked, as the turkey often lays I bably break many eggs, which easily happens, from the great weight of the birds. The chicks break the shell from the twenty-sixth to the twenty-ninth day, scarcely ever later. The day but one before the hatching is expected, the hen should be plentifully fed, the nest cleaned of any dung or feathers during her absence, and an ample supply of food and water placed where she can reach it, as she must not again be disturbed till the chicks are out. In dry weather, if the nest be in a dry place, the eggs will have been daily sprinkled as described under hatching. The egg-shells may be cleared away after hatching has proceeded some hours, but the chicks should never be taken away from the hen, and never be forced ta eat. The latter practice is very general, as turkey-chicks are very stupid, and do not seem to know how to peck. But a much better plan is to put two ordinary hen’s eggs under the turkey, five or six days after she began to sit,, which will then hatch about the same time as her own, and the little chickens will teach the young turkeys, quite soon enough, what they should do. Water or milk may be given, however, by dipping the tips of the finger, or a camel-hair pencil, in the fluid, and applying it to the end of their beaks. The best feeding at first—say for a