288 GARDENING: settle the soil to the roots, and repeat the application until such time as the plants become well established. Fig. i shows a section of the bed. As a rule an asparagus bed should not contain less than a rod, as it very frequently takes more than this to make up a dish at one time ; but for a large family twenty poles would not be too much. Never gather any buds for the first three years after planting ; but, on the contrary, permit them to run up to seed, and keep the beds clear of weeds, stirring the soil at each weeding, in order to keep it in a loose state. It is the practice of some gardeners to throw out the alleys at every autumn dressing, and cover the beds with the soil so taken out. Now this may be done the first year after planting, but never afterwards ; instead of which give a good coat of rotten dung, and fork it evenly, both into the beds and alleys, every season. It is, or should be, well known that this plant forms a new crown every year, and it frequently happens that in a few years the crown e.Ktends itself into the alleys, so that by digging them out the plant is certain to be destroyed. We there- fore advise that nothing at all be done to them rather than they should be treated according to this too general practice. The first two years a little celery and lettuce seed may be sown on the beds, and a few cauliflower plants may be planted at the distance of two feet asunder, in the alleys, but never after, as it would to a certainty rob the asparagus of a great portion of ■nourishment. At the end of October, or be- ginning of November, the stalks will have done growing and begun to decay, when they must be cut down close to the ground and cleared away, taking off all weeds and other litter at the same time ; then give the ground a good three-inch coat of well-rotted manure, and fork it in quite down to the crowns, as above advised, by which means the winter rains, &c., will wash the manure down amongst the roots, which will be greatly benefited thereby. Many people have a notion that by merely covering the beds with litter or recent dung from the stable, they have done all that is necessary, but we maintain that such treatment does far more harm than good, as it only pre- vents the winter frost from having any influence over the soil without doing the least in the shape of enriching it. At the end of March, or beginning of April, just before the buds begin to rise, loosen the surface of the beds with a three-tined or pronged fork, being careful not to wound the crowns with the points of the tines ; then rake the surface neatly level, drawing off all large stones and hard clods, leaving the beds as loose as possible, which will not only enable the buds to rise freely, but admit sun, air, and rain into the soil, and thus encourage the roots to throw up buds of a superior size and flavour. By the way, we may mention that the shoots, or buds, come up but weak and slender the first year, stronger the second, and still stronger the third, when some old buds may be gathered, and in the fourth year the buds will be in full perfection. So far as cutting and gathering is concerned, we say never begin to cut till the plants come to mature growth— that is, three or four years after planting, at which time, and not till then, they arc of proper strength to produce full-sized buds. The buds are in the greatest perfec- tion when they have risen above ground from two to three inches, as they are then close and plump. In gathering the buds, scrape an inch or two of the earth from the shoot, i. Fig. 3, and then slip the knife down, as at 2, drawing it up in a slanting direction towards you, which will separate the head or shoot from the stool easily. Fig. 4 shows the best shape of knife for this purpose. This implement should be thrust into the soil, after having nearly bared the shoot down to the root, and with a saw-like motion sever the same in a slanting direction towards you. The same plan must be resorted to in each instance, until you have entirely cleared the bed. Never cut much after the middle of June, but permit it to run up ; in fact, the weak shoots should not be cut at all. If on any particular occasion cutting should be re- quired later than the above time, be careful I. to leave one or two shoots on each stool, in order to draw the nourishment to it; for if left destitute of growing shoots they would perish, and thus fill the bed with vacant spots. A plantation of asparagus, under judicious management, will generally continue to afford plentiful crops for twelve or fourteen years, after which time the shoots begin to decay, or, at all events, begin to decline in fertility, and the shoots are much inferior in quality, even if they do vegetate as long; so that to ensure a permanent supply every year a bed or two should be planted every now and then, so as to get them in readi- ness for cutting in three or four years’ time, in order that they may come to a productive state before the old ones are thoroughly worn out. Some people continue their beds for twenty years or more, but, in our opinion, by so doing they lose much to gain little. Those desirous of saving seed —which we scarcely think necessary, considering how cheaply it can be purchased—should select some of the largest and earliest buds as soon as they rise in the spring, to which place sticks or stakes, by which to tie them to during the summer, taking care not to injure the crown of the plant when driving the said supports into the ground. As soon as the berries are ripe, gather and spread them in a dry, airy situation, keeping 4. them in the berry until the time of sowing. To force Asparagus.—Vlants about five or six years old should be chosen, if they appear strong enough to pro- duce vigorous shoots for insertion into the hotbed. The first plantation for forcing should be made about the latter end of September, and if the bed goes on favour- ably a crop may be expected in four or five weeks’ time. The bed will afford a gathering every two or three days, and will continue in bearing about three weeks. The hotbed for the reception of the plants is constructed of stable-dung or other material in the ordinary fashion. This should be covered with about five or six inches of tan, or other light material suf^ciently porous to admit the heat from the bed to the roots, which are planted in mould laid upon the tan. The bed must then be covered with six or eight inches of rich light soil. The plants may be inserted as close together as possible, several hundred under an ordinary-sized frame. In planting draw a furrow the length of the frame, and place the first row of plants against it, covering their roots with soil, and proceed in the same way throughout. More soil is gradually to b’’ added as the bed acquires a steady and regular heat.