112 DOMESTIC SURGERY. a medical man is able to certify that the sufferer is undoubtedly dead. Patients recovered from drowning generally require careful after-treatment for a few days, but this is best left in the hands of the medical attendant. Cases of Hanging, with suicidal intention, may un- happily be met with, and require treatment very similar to that appropriate for drowned cases. Of course, the first step is to cut the sufferer down, and loosen the ligature round the neck. Cold water should then be dashed over the head and chest, and if no breathing is there- by excited, re- course should be had at once to artificial respira- tion, as above de- scribed. In cases of hanging, it may be necessary to bleed the patient from the jugular vein or temporal artery, in order to relieve the congestion of the head, but neither of these operations can be safely undertaken e.xcept by a medical man. Suspended animation from Foul Gases is most com- monly met with in connection j with breweries, where the carbonic acid gas is apt to collect in the large vats used for brewing; or in wells, where the same gas collects and is dangerous to any workmen descending to repair pump- tubes, &c. As in these accidents several lives arc often unneces- sarily sacrificed, in the well- meant but igno- rant efforts made to rescue the first sufferer, it may not be out of place to say a few words as to the best method of dispersing the noxious gases, and removing those who arc suffering from their influence. When one man has fallen insensible under the influence of the carbonic acid, it is simply suicide for another to attempt to rescue him without proper precautions. These consist in having a strong rope securely fastened round his waist, so that he may be drawn up at once if overcome, and aiiothcr similar rope to be carried in the hand and to be attached to the first victim. The mouth and nose should be thoroughly muffled with a woollen comforter or handkerchief, and the rescuer should breathe as seldom as he can whilst attaching the rope to his fallen comrade. If sufficient assistance is at hand, efforts should at the same time be made to disperse the carbonic acid gas by throwing down buckets of water. By this means the ordinary atmospheric air will to a certain degree be mixed with the deleterious vapour, which being heavy will speedily find its way through an opening in the bottom of a vat, if such can be rapidly made by opening a trap or cutting out a plank. A garden- engine and hose, if at hand, may be used to pump fresh air to the sufferers, and a fire-engine, if ob- tainable, would be a still more effi- cient instrument. When the sufferer is at last placed in safety, every effort must be made to establish respira- tion in the manner already explained under the head of drowning. It is most important that a free access of fresh air should be allowed to him by avoiding all crowding of anxious relations and friends around the patient. Insensibility from Sun-stroke is occasionally met with in the summer months, from exposure in the hay-field, &c. The patient complains of violent pain in the head, and in bad cases becomes rapidly insensible, the face being flushed and the head hot. The treatment is to remove the sufferer into the shade and to apply cold water freely to the head and nape of the neck. The head should be sup- ported and cold water (iced if possible) poured from a height upon it. At the same time mus- tard poultices may be applied to the calves of the legs, and medical aid should be im- mediately sum- moned. The same treatment would be appropriate to a case of apo- plexy, care being taken, however, not to prolong the cold affusion, as the patient’s strength might not be able to bear it. Cases of insensibility from Intoxication or Poisoning should be seen by a medical man as early as possible. N o harm, however, can be done in any case by inducing vomiting, and this is most readily accomplished by tickling the interior of the throat with a feather, if the patient is unable to swallow, or if he is able, by the administration of an emetic of warm mustard amLwater. All constriction about the neck and chest should be removed, and the patient be placed on his side with the head slightly raised.