COOKERY. 3^4 own and maintain its ground witli no other sauce than a boatful of good plain melted butter, the unadorned canvas on which cooks embroider such a multitude and variety of other sauces. As melted butter—not butter melted— is one of the keystones of English cookery, we cannot give the formula at a more appropriate opportunity than the present. Melted Butter.—Take a lump of butter the size of a hen’s egg, cut it into three or four pieces, and work them with a knife into as much as you can get them to take up of a dessert-spoonful of flour. Put them into a sauce- pan with three-quarters of a pint of cold water, keep stirring in one direction as they gradually melt, and dust in what remains of the flour. When they are well mixed, smooth, and the sauce boils up, it is ready for serving. Or you may simply put the lump of butter in the sauce- pan with cold water, gradually dusting in the flour as it warms and melts. This rough-and-ready way requires careful management to prevent the flour from gathering into knots. Good melted loutter, even if smooth, should not be too thick or pasty. It will acquire that condition by being kept waiting too long at the side of the stove. In that case you can easily thin it by the addition of more butter and a little warm water. Another good accom- paniment to salmon is Mustard Sauce.—When your melted butter is on the it; let it boil twenty minutes or half-an-hour. Strain off the boilings ; let them stand awhile to settle ; and with the liquor poured off (instead of with water) make melted butter, being liberal with the butter. When it boils, put in your prepared and picked lobster-flesh, and let it stand on the side of the stove to warm through. If you have any salmon roe, you may at the same time add it (pre- viously cooked and separated into grains). Lobster sauce should be kept delicate in flavour, not high and pungent. The value of Ude’s advice, “Never neglect to season your sauce; without seasoning, the best cookery is good for nothing,” entirely depends on the meaning of words. For “seasoning” read “flavour,” and he is right; for “ seasoning ” read “ spice,” and he is wrong. Any surplus lobster sauce, with the sauce reduced and thereby thickened, will make delicious lobster patties or bouchees de homard. Mock Lobster Sauce.—Take cold turbot, not overdone. If you have no turbot, boil a thick fleshy sole. While hot, remove the meat from the bones, and let it cool. Smear the cold fish on both sides with essence of anchovies, or anchovy paste, or essence of shrimps. Cut it up, not too small, into dice and pieces resembling those which serve for real lobster sauce. Dust with a little very finely powdered sugar. Make your sauce itself THE S.VLMOX. point of boiling, incorporate with it a small quantity of made mustard (not in powder) mixed with a dessert or tablespoonful of vinegar. The strength of this sauce must depend on the taste of the guests ; but it is better to underdo than to overdo the dose. It is best kept in the state of a delicate sauce-piquante, with just enough pungency for the palate to perceive it, without being able to decide to what seasoning to attribute it. Mustard sauce goes e.xceedingly well with boiled mackerel and with boiled or fried fresh herring. Anchovy Sauce is also orthodox with salmon. In- corporate with your boiling melted butter a couple of teaspoonfuls of essence of anchovies to make a sauce- boatful. You may make a similar sauce with essence of shrimps ; but true shrimp sauce (containing the meat of the shrimps) is not usually served with salmon. The sauce for grand occasions is Lobster Sauce.—Wash the lobster well before boiling, so as to cleanse it thoroughly from the sand or mud which is apt to adhere to it, especially if it be a hen- lobster with a nest of eggs under her tail. When cold, pick out the flesh of your lobster. If a fine one, you will probably reserve the handsomest pieces for a lobster salad or a Mayonnaise. The pickings and trimmings, the interior of the head and of the small claws, will suffice for your sauce. Separate them into small pieces ; dust them with a very little pepper or cayenne ; add the juice of a lemon; and set them aside. Take the broken shell of the lobster; again see that it is free from grit ; pound or break it up roughly in a mortar ; set it on the fire in a little more cold water than will cover exactly as if there were no deception in the matter. It will help you greatly, if you can add and mix with your ingredients a little lobster-roe previously bruised in a mortar. This, if you have it, can be spared without loss, or even suspicion of loss, from a lobster salad or a Mayonnaise. Moreover, having a lobster, you can boil the shells, as above directed, and use the liquor to make your sauce. Finally, throw in your disguised turbot or sole ; heat and serve. These little economies, like the turbot patties just indicated, cannot be justly sneered at as “leavings;” they are merely the employment of extra supplies which, in any case, must have a previous cooking. Salmon Steaks are cut, about an inch thick, out of the middle or tail-end of the fish. Dry them between the folds of a napkin, dust with flour, fry with care that they do not stick to the pan ; or broil over a clear and gentle fire, wrapped in oiled or buttered paper. Serve with mustard sauce, if any; or with a lemon to squeeze over them. Kippered Salmon salted, smoked, and dried, is cut into slices, and little more than warmed through, in the oven or before the fire, like red herring. Use mustard sauce, if any, but none is needed. The Great Lake Trout and Salmon Trout are treated exactly in the same way as salmon. The latter, however, especially, is a more delicate and tender-fleshed fish, and requires less time (for equal weights) to cook, than salmon. River Trout are still more delicate. Small ones may be fried or broiled. Boil the finer specimens in salt and water, acidulated while still ccld with a little vinegar.