DOMESTIC SURGERY. DOMESTIC SURGERY.—IX. VARIOUS LOCAL AILMENTS. A Cold m the Eye.—This is a very common affection, and consists in an inflamed condition of the membrane covering the eye-ball and lining the eye-lids, and is often due, as the name implies, to exposure to a draught. The patient feels as if some dust had got into the eye, and can sometimes be hardly persuaded to the contrary; the white of the eye itself is seen to be reddened, and there is a con- stant flow of blinding scalding tears. The best treatment is to foment the eyes with pure warm water, or better, with water in which two or three crushed poppy-heads have been boiled for half an hour, to extract their sedative qualities. A shade should be worn over the eyes in the intervals of fomenting, and a dose of rhubarb and mag- nesia should be administered. If the inflammation does not subside in a day or two, a doctor should be consulted, if possible ; but, if this is not possible, good will probably be done by dropping into the eyes, two or three times a day, some solution of sulphate of zinc or white vitriol, in the proportion of one grain to two table-spoonfuls of water. Strumous children, especially when improperly fed, often suffer from another form of inflammation of the eye, in which the chief symptom is intolerance of light, the child using its hands to exclude the light as much as pos- sible, or, if in bed, burying its head beneath the clothes. These cases require careful local and constitutional treat- ment, for which medical advice should be sought; but, wanting this, the little patient will be much relieved by having its eyes frequently bathed with cold water, and wearing a green shade over them. New-born children occasionally suffer from another disease of the eye, of which the chief symptom is a dis- charge of yellow fluid or pus from beneath the lids, which are apt to be glued together by the discharge drying on them. This is a very serious affection, since the sight of the eye may be utterly lost if it is neglected, and medical advice should, therefore, be obtained. In its absence, the eye should be carefully washed out several times a day with warm water, and a lotion of alum, in the proportion of ten grains to an ounce of water, be thoroughly applied. In doing this, the greatest care must be taken not to con- vey any of the yellow fluid into the eye of another person, since it is highly contagious, and will certainly lead to violent inflammation of any eye it may happen to touch. In washing a child’s eye, the best plan is for one person to hold it firmly on its back with its head secured between the knees of the nurse who is to wash it, and its body rest- ing on the knees of the assistant. Gently separating the eye-lids with the fore-finger and thumb, the nurse then lets the water or lotion trickle in between them from a small, clean, and soft sponge, then wipes the lids gently with the sponge, and repeats the operation on the opposite eye. When eye-drops have to be applied, the same position should be adopted, and the drops may be conveniently extracted from the phial and inserted between the lids with an ordinary quill-pen, the nib of which has been rounded off. In making a shade for the eye, a piece of card-board large enough to cover both eyes, and shaped out so as to fit the forehead, should be covered with green silk, and attached by a ribbon round the forehead. A Stye in the Eye is a little abscess formed at the edge of the eye-lid by the inflammation of one of the little follicles which lubricate its edge. It generally occurs in persons out of health, or in strumous children, and is apt to occur again and again until the health is improved. At the commencement of the disorder, the part is sure to be swollen and red, and feels hot and uncomfortable to the patient; then it begins to throb, and matter forms, as is shown by the yellow point in the centre of the “ stye.” When this is let out, or discharges itself, the inflammation subsides, and the lid gets well rapidly. In the early stage, the only treatment is to bathe the eye frequently with hot water, and at night to put a bread and water poultice over it. When the matter forms, it may be pricked and let out with a needle, if the patient will be steady enough to allow this to be done without danger to the eye, though there is a popular but unfounded preju- dice that any interference with a stye leads to the forma- tion of others. The formation of an abscess on the inner side of the eye, close to the nose, is a much more serious thing, as it involves the passage by which the tears reach the‘nose, and will require early and careful surgical treatment, or a very disfiguring scar may result. Whitlow is a very common affection, and one which, in its simpler forms, may be treated domestically without danger. The simplest kind of whitlow is that which forms about the root of the nail, and which may or may not depend upon some trifling injury, or upon the intro- duction of some irritating substance beneath the skin. At first the finger is found to be tender and hot, and soon a sense of throbbing is experienced in it. This is relieved by holding the inflamed part in hot water, and by poultic- ing ; but, in all probability, matter will form, and will be seen as a white fluid, either beneath the nail itself, or raising the skin around its root. The pain is now severe, owing to the matter being pent up, and immediate relief will be obtained as soon as it is evacuated. If beneath the nail, the best plan is to remove a small wedge-shaped piece of the nail with sharp pointed scissors, so as to reach the point where the matter lies, and this can be generally effected without pain to the patient. If the skin around the nail is distended with the matter, it should be freely incised with a lancet or sharp and clean penknife, and this operation, though much dreaded by the patient, is absolutely painless, the skin having already lost its sensibility. The more severe forms of whitlow require prompt surgical attendance. In one, the end of the finger 'oecomes violently inflamed and swollen, the mischief beginning in the membrane covering the bone. Then an early and free incision down to the bone is absolutely necessary, in order to save it from destruction ; but fortu- nately, evep in neglected cases, it is seldom, if ever, necessary to perform amputation for this complaint, the surgeon being able to extract the piece of dead bone, and leave a very useful though somewhat shortened finger. In another and more severe form of whitlow, the matter forms in the finger and palm of the hand, both of which become immensely swollen ; and here a skilful incision is necessary, in order to evacuate the matter without damag- ing the important structures of the palm of the hand, or leading to stiffness of one or more of the fingers. In case the assistance of a surgeon cannot be obtained, it may be mentioned that the proper place to incise this form of whitlow is in the central line of a finger, and just at the point where it joins the hand. The incision should be not more than half an inch long, and should always be on the palmar surface, or under side of the finger. Abscesses may form in any part of the body, and are often only evidences of deeper-seated mischief, for which medical advice should be at once procured. In cases of disease of the spine, leading to projection of the bone, and what is commonly called “ broken back,” an abscess very commonly forms, without any special pain, in the upper part of the thigh, and the same kind of thing may be witnessed in other parts, the patient experiencing no pain, but having an elastic swelling, in which the peculiar and characteristic sensation due to the fluctuation of the contained fluid, may be readily felt with the fingers. These chronic or cold abscesses should always be sub- mitted to a medical man, as they may be of great import- ance, and their treatment requires skill and attention. The more acute abscesses have much the same symptoms