164 HOUSEHOLD DECORATIVE ART. “ cried,’’ as this often takes up a considerable time ; but when an average of one to each member of the party has been reached, if the number is between a dozen and twenty, it is time to stop the collection. Two persons, chosen from the rest of the company for their knowledge of a good number of suitable and amusing forfeits, and generally ladies, cry the forfeits thus :—One is seated, and the various articles collected are placed in her lap. The other is blindfolded, and kneels down before her companion. The object of the blindfolding is to pre- vent the recognition of any of the articles as belonging to particular members of the company, and thus to assure something like impartiality in the allotment of the various tasks. The person seated takes one of the articles from the collection before her, and, holding it up so that the company may recognise the owner, usually cries, “ Here is a thing, and a very pretty thing ; what shall be done by the owner of this very pretty thing?” This established form of words, which dates farther back than the memory of man, may, however, be reduced to the latter clause alone, if that plan is preferred. The blindfolded lady asks, “Is it fine, or superfine?” or “ Is it a lady’s or a gentle- man’s ?” for this much she is allowed to know, that she may name a suitable forfeit. Having received an answer, she declares the task which the owner must perform. The following are examples of the forfeits which may be allotted. Ah; (z Gentleman.—i. To kiss every lady in the room Spanish fashion. The person to whom this forfeit is assigned usually imagines that an agreeable task is before him ; but he is thus enlightened. A lady rises from her seat to conduct him round the room, and she proceeds to each lady in turn, kisses her, and then wipes the gentle- man’s mouth with her pocket handkerchief. 2. To make a Grecian Statue. To do this the gentle- man must stand upon a chair, and take his pose according to the pleasure of the company. One person may stick his arm out, or bend it into an awkward position ; another may do the same by a leg ; a third may incline his head backward, with the chin elevated in the air ; and so they may proceed, until his figure is sufficiently removed from the “ Grecian ” to satisfy the party. He is bound to be as plastic as possible while the statue is moulded. 3. To perform the Dumb Orator. How to do this was described in our last paper. The forfeit may either be allotted to one person, who is to go through the action while either a lady or a gentleman volunteer recites, or two forfeits may be coupled, and both reciter and actor may take their parts as a penalty. 4. Say Half-a-dozen Flattering Things to a Lady, without using the Letter 1. This may be done by such phrases as “You are pretty,” “You are entertaining,” &c., but such words as graceful, beautiful, and charitable are, of course, inadmissible. 5. To try the Cold Water Cure, the gentleman is first blindfolded, and then a tumbler filled with cold water, and a teaspoon, are produced. Not to be too hard upon him, he is allowed to take a seat. Each member of the com- pany is then privileged to give him a spoonful ; but if he can guess at any time the name of the person who is “ curing” him, he is at once released from a further infliction of the remedy. 6. To play the Learned Pig. To do this, the gentleman must first put himself as nearly as possible in the attitude of one. Pie must go on all fours, and he is then to answer (picstions that may be put to him cither by the company or by somebody who may volunteer as his master, to show his attainments. The questions asked are some- thing like the following : “ Show us the most agreeable person in 'the company,” or, “ the most charming,” “ the greatest flirt,” &c. After each question, the victim is to proceed to any one whom he may select and signify his choice by a grunt. The learning as well as the docility of a pig has its limits, and the game must, therefore, not be prolonged too far. For a Lady.— i. To Choose Partners for a Quadrille. ■ In this the lady, after making her choice, is informed that the quadrille must be performed blindfold. The gentle- men selected must be satisfied with that honour, and go through the performance which devolves upon them ; but the second lady may be allowed to reclaim her forfeiture, if she has one, as compensation. All stand up, blind- folded as we have said, and go through the first figure of a set, as best they may. 2. To repeat a Proverb Backwards. Any proverb may be chosen by the lady for the purpose. 3. To stand in the Middle of the Room, and spell “ Opportunity.” If, after the lady has spelt the word, a gentleman can reach her before she regains her seat, he may avail himself of the “ opportunity” offered, under the mistletoe. 4. To say “Yes” or “No” to Three Questions by the Company. The lady must go out of the room, while the company agree as to each of the questions to be asked. To each of these the lady must give one or other of the plain monosyllables Ladies of experience say the safe answer is always “ no;” but this hint must be reserved to readers of these papers. HOUSEHOLD DECORATIVE ART.—V. TO IMITATE BUSTS AND STATUETTES IN MARBLE BY MEANS OF WAX. ■\’'ery beautiful imitations of marble or Parian statuettes may be made at a ^small cost by the following simple process Let the experimenter begin with any well-shaped busts. Choose plaster casts measuring eleven inches high and seven broad—these can be bought for very little from the itinerant vendors; we have so purchased them for less than a shilling each; at the shops they will be charged from eighteen-pence to half-a-crown (on account of a difference in the quality), but they are worth the extra cost if you wish to have them nicely done, and a close imitation of marble. Procure a pound of perfectly white wax candles (six to the pound), break up and melt three of these in a small saucepan—a pint one is about the size; it should be deep enough well to contain the wax.* Also have ready a basin, about eight inches in circumference, if shallow and spread at the mouth the better; put the basin on a large dish to catch any droppings of wax. The kitchen table will be a convenient place, as the work must be done where it is tolerably warm, especially if in winter. The operator begins with the pedestal, takes the head of the cast next, and finishes with the bust. As soon as the wax is melted, hold the pedestal of the statue over the basin, and pour the wax all over it in a full wash, so as to get it quite smooth. Return the wax from the basin to the saucepan, and pour it again over the pedestal (this may be repeated three or four times, but directly the wax begins to thicken melt it again, because as it cools it will leave guttering marks). Completely cover the pedestal, but do not let any of the wax touch the bust. If the back is not quite perfect it can be left till the last. Next take the head, hold it, face upwards, over the basin, and pour the wax over it, beginning near the chin : the throat, head, and * Paraffia candles are excellent for this purpose, being very white, hard, and admitting of a high polish; and their cheapness is a recommendation, but the material is dangerous. To use it in safety, the candles must be melted and used instantly, not left on the fire to get over-heated, or the paraffin will ignite. In finishing a certain_hust with paraffin candles we let the melted material remain over a gas stove after it was melted, and it caught fire ; some one threw water on it, which caused an explosion, nearly filling the kitchen and singeing the eyebrows and hair of the operator. The safest way in such accident is to let the fire quietly burn itself out.