292 Fig. 86. Fig. 87. CHILDREN’S DRESS. T- S very slightly. The pattern is, of course, much smaller than a child’s cape, but it instructs the mother how to cut a cape. She can afterwards easily cut one any size desired. The Pelisse.—The cape of a pelisse should half cover the skirt, and, indeed, be an inch over the half-measure at the centre behind. The length of the pelisse must be determined by the size of the child, and the cape by the pelisse. The pelisse for an infant in arms should be made long enough to cover the feet, and just touch the ground. If the child walks, it should come half-way between the sock and the top of the boot, which it will do when worn if the measure be taken from the waist to the top of the boot. For the body, measure the length of the child from the neck to the waist, and round the waist very loosely. Take a piece of double paper as long as the length from neck to waist, and a quarter s Fig. 73 / e G H Fig. 74. Fig. 75- pattern is now complete. There is no slope under the arm of a young child’s body from E to F. Your paper being double, you can now open it, and leave the front of the body entire, like Fig. 76. Double it to cut by, and double the material. Cut the material doubled from the paper for the front. The same pattern will do for the back, cutting from the material also doubled, but allowing two inches larger at the doubled part (C D, Fig. 77), as a hem for the backs, and leaving half an inch at top and bottom to pipe and to turn in on the shoulder and side. Put pins in the material along the edge of the paper pattern, to indicate how much is allowed to turn in. For the fronts, allow an inch at the side and shoulder. Allow nothing where the C material is doubled. Allow half an inch at top and bottom and round the arm- hole. Cut the body on the straight of the stuff—that is, B the sides level with the selvage; the width of this is to Fig. 77- Fig. 78. Fig. 80. Fig. 82. Fig. 83. Fig. 79- the width of the waist (doubled paper). Mea- sure the size of the child round the neck, at the place where the top of the pelisse would come, not tightly. Then, from the top of the piece of paper, measure from the centre a quarter of the size of the neck (from A to B, Fig. 83), and just cut off the corner by a little slope, exactly to the measure. Then measure the length of the child’s shoulder from the neck to the arm, and mark the length on the paper, beginning at B and measuring to C. You will then cut off the piece there at the slanting line dotted. Measure the child’s arm at the top of it, loosely. Make a mark on the paper from c to D, a quarter of the size of the arm. Make another mark from half-way between C and D to E, also as long as a quarter the size round of the child’s arm. Now, by the help of these marks, cut out a small half-circle from c to D and to E. Measure the length of the child’s side under the arm from the arm-pit to the waist. The paper from E to F ought to be as long as this measure. If it be shorter, you must pin a piece as much longer as is needed across the end of the pattern, from F to G exactly equal. Your Fig. 85. be taken the narrow way of the stuff—that is, with the selvage on a level with H and I, Fig. 76. To make a frock body, cut a paper pattern first from the one like Fig. 76, and then mark the dot- ted line at H in Fig. 83 on it, and cut it across there. This makes it a low body, and will serve for a petticoat or frock. All bodies are best cut as directed, with the stuff double, backs as well as fronts. To cut the sleeve. Fig. 78, measure the length of the outside of the arm. Mark it on a piece of paper from E to F. Measure the length of the inside of the arm. The length outside is measured from the arm-hole in the frock behind, with the arm bept, and the inside from the arm-hole in front, with the arm straight. The inside measure is an inch or two shorter than the outside. Mark the inside length on the paper from c to D, Fig. 78, allowii>g equal space to each end. Measure the arm loosely at the top. Mark half the size round from C to E. Measure the wrist large enough for the hand to slip through easily. Take half of this and measure from D, sloping it as low as F, Fig. 78. Make a dot for the elbow exactly half- way down the pattern, at G. Then draw a curved line