352 THE HOUSE. THE HOUSE.—V. WATER SUPPLY {continued from p. 318). The dwellers in cities and large towns are generally so well supplied by public companies with good and whole- some water, that little attention is paid by them to either its obtainment or preservation from contamination. Those who reside in small towns, villages, the rural districts, newly-settled countries, or in camp, must, in self-defence, exercise their ingenuity and powers of resource in the matter of water-collecting and stowing for use. There are several sources from which a supply of water may be obtained; some of them so obvious as to need little remark here. Rivers, lakes, and springs, rainfall, and showers link in one system with the waters of the deep sea. The moisture-laden clouds, driven landwards by the gale, meet and are broken by the high rugged peaks of some mountain-chain, or pour out their contents as they sail onwards. It is at all times desirable, when entering a dwelling-place, to make proper provision for the collection of rain water. We have already spoken of the different forms of cisterns and reservoirs in general use. These, to be of value, must be furnished with a carefully arranged set of tubes and water-channels, so placed as to receive the water as it flows from the ridges, and convey it, without loss, to the chamber placed for effectually and quickly choke it. Tapering rapidly to the escape-hole at the bottom, the impediment concentrates itself, and becomes impacted by downward pressure of water. Fig. 3 shows a section of a form of funnel or box head rendered free from the chance of being choked —A is a piece of tube the same diameter as the main pipe B ; c is a cone of coarse perforated zinc, soldered to the mouth of the upright tube, like the head of a sharp- pointed pepper-dredger. All substances entering the box with water will have a tendency to gravitate to the bottom, where they will remain far below the holes in the cone. The point being sharp admits of no lodgment; and as the water sinks in the box, stray floating fragments of matter will fall with it. D shows where two or three holes are made in the tube, in order to keep the bottom of the box dry, by gradual draining through of any matter which may collect below the holes of the cone. Sparrows are most industrious collectors of all sorts of odds and ends ; and, therefore, care should be taken to stop carefully the line of space between the lower border of the roof and the edge of the water channel, in order to prevent them from gaining an entrance. It will not unfrequently happen, that although no surface-water is to be discovered on lands* in other respects desirable for occupation, an abundant store exists below overlaying deposits ; therefore it is that the well- its reception. It is somewhat curious, notwithstanding the importance to be attached to a well-constructed rain- water system as applied to buildings, that so little care is taken in fitting and adjusting the channels and tubes. The latter are too commonly so attached to the outsides of the walls, that at the least interruption to the downward passage of water they overflow, and saturated bricks and mortar are the result. A variety of causes are in force to produce obstruction—dead leaves, broken cement, and the thousand and one nameless waifs and strays which, wind- drifted, at length find a lodgment in the channel, collect, and gather together as they are carried onward, until at length, forming a mass, they either fall into the box head of the wall tube and stop the orifice at its bottom, or form a sort of dam in the channel itself, which causes the water to flow in a broad stream out, over, and probably ulti- mately find its way to the ceilings or paper hangings of apartments. A small perforated zinc grating or strainer, placed at intervals of ten or twelve feet in the channels at runways, as shown in Fig. i, will tend greatly to prevent ponding-up, as no accumulation of small substances can take place—each grate keeps back its own share, and prevents gathering together by onward flow. An oc- casional cleaning out will keep the grates in a state of efficiency. The end of autumn, after the leaves have fallen, should be chosen as a time for a general inspection and clearance of the channels. The construction of the box or funnel heads of the main downfall tubes in com- mon use is, as a general rule, very faulty in form. Fig. 2 shows a section of the ordinary tube head, and the manner in which a collection of leaves, straw, sticks, &c. &c. sinker’s aid becomes necessary. There are many methods by which a well may be sunk, dependent on the nature of the deposit to be penetrated, and the depth to which the sinkings are to be carried. The simple shaft, sunk in the earth until water is reached, has been had recourse to from the very earliest ages. Then the Chinese, dis- covering that a small orifice produced water freely, employed a species of shallow pumping borer or bit, which, driven by manual labour applied to a long bamboo lever, kept pecking at the earth, until it was filled through an orifice in the bottom. When charged, it was drawn to the surface, and its contents cast out, and so on, until by the aid of water occasionally thrown into the newly-made well or hole, it was carried to the required depth, to reach the buried supply of water. A bamboo, with a split end, is not unfrequently used to form a small well; thrust continually up and down in a hole made in the surface- soil for its reception, it gathers together, between the split up joints of wood, such gravel, stones, or sand as may oppose its downward progress. When thoroughly filled, it is lifted from the hole and beaten until relieved of its burden. Wells in sandy Regions may be sunk by first building a circular wall of stones. The well sinkers then enter the circle and dig out the sand within, until the wall sinks to the surface level. Another wall is then built on the first, and so on, until by alternate building and digging the required depth is reached. This process, although most ingenious, is extremely tedious. There are yet several sources from which a supply of water may be obtained, the consideration of which must be reserved for our next paper.