144 HINTS ON CARVING. on the dish upon the toast. Then turn back the veal to its former position, and cut off slices from D to c, Fig. 15. Pheasant.— A pheasant and a partridge are birds not rare on any country table, and partridges especially are plentiful enough in London to be easily obtained by all classes during the season. The skewers must first be taken from the pheasant. The legs are to be then removed in the same way as those of a fowl. The wings are next removing the skewers, as shown from A to B in Fig. 18. Treat the other side the same. The piece consisting of a leg and wing thus cut off is to be served whole and not divided. Separate the breast from the back, as in carving a fowl, by cutting through the small side bones. The breast makes one plate, and the back is given with either of the other three, but cannot be served alone. Another way of serving partridge is to split the bird in two through the breast and back. Fig. 19, and place the halves on separate to be taken off, also as in carving a fowl, observing only that very little of the breast is served with thenu The breast affords several delicate slices, which are con- sidered the best part. The wings are preferred next, and then the merry thought; game eaters like the legs. The rest of the bird is carved like a fowl. A pheasant always comes to table with the head on one side, and a large bunch of the liver on the other (Fig. 18). It is usual to leave the tail on when plucking it, or to tie it up and skewer it on afterwards, and send it to table with the bird. Partridges,—Cut off the leg and wing together, after plates. Although the methods of carving a partridge are two, as we have already described, it must be observed that special circumstances must decide in which way a particular bird shall be divided and allotted. There are differences in the size and condition of birds brought at one and the same time to table. There are differences also in the proportion of the rations, which a judicious carver will know under all circumstances how to arrange for. But there is one rule which may be laid down with tolerable propriety, and it is to help a gentleman to half a bird. When gentlemen only are at table, the second method of carving partridges is always followed.