78 THE HOUSEHOLD MECHANIC. most flexible, and elastic of home-grown timbers, and for this reason is eminently suited to all purposes requiring these qualifications, such as the construction of agricultural tools, wooden springs, frames of railway carriages, wheels, &c.; but as it is of very slight durability, it is not suitable for construction of out-door work, or building purposes. Some specimens may be found dark and beautifully marked in grain, and are then much prized for cabinet work. Beech {Fagiis sylvaticd) is a tree which attains con- siderable size in this country, the wood of which is of a reddish brown colour, and of very even texture and fine grain. It is much used in small turned work, handles for tools, common furniture, &c.; but is unsuited for building purposes, owing to its liability to be attacked by a small worm and dry rot. It stands water well, however, and is comparatively cheap. Ma]ioga?iy {Siuictenia) is the most universally known and prized of the furniture woods, as its immense size and great soundness, its almost perfect immunity from dry rot, its freedom from shrinkage, and its beautiful appearance, render it the most valuable of all woods for domestic purposes. The finest in grain, or Spanish, is imported from Cuba, and is mostly cut into veneers, which are over- laid on common and cheaper wood. The Honduras is lighter in colour and weight than Spanish, but is better for solid work. Mahogany is also good for turning, and admits of a fine polish. Oak (Quercus).—It is from the numerous varieties of oak that our strongest and most durable timber for heavy building purposes and ship-building is selected, the wood being of immense strength and large size, and peculiarly unsusceptible to the attacks of the weather. There are many different varieties, nearly all being found in the temperate zone. The growth of the oak is slow, and the wood is consequently hard and firm, and of great tenacity, the best being of a light brown colour. The darker kinds are softer and less durable, but being in most cases beautifully marked with crossings of lighter colour, called the flower, are much prized for ornamental purposes, especially in church architecture and carving. Oak is rather difficult to work, owing to its great hard- ness, but is susceptible of a splendid polish. Wheel- ^vrights use oak almost exclusively for the spokes of '.vheels, the rims or felloes being generally ash, and the naves elm. Pine (Finns).—Under this head properly come all the varieties of the order Conifcrcc., such as fir, white and yellow deal, larch, &c. The different species of pine supply the largest part of the timber employed for build- ing purposes, on account of the immense size and straightness of the wood, the abundance of the supply, and the case and facility with which it can be worked, combined with its durability and comparative strength. A large proportion is imported from Russia and Norway, and other mountainous countries produce great quantities. The durability of the pine tribe is in proportion to the quantity of resin and turpentine con- tained. Yellow deal., as it is called, is the best for carpenters, is even and straight in grain, and tolerably free from knots. Some varieties are entirely without these knots, such as St. John’s pine, imported from Newfoundland, which may often be had two or three feet wide and forty feet long. This kind is very soft, however. The white kinds are harder and freer from resin, but less durable if exposed to variations of moisture. Larch is softest of all, but the grain is large and coarse, and, owing to the immense quantity of turpentine con- tained in it, is well suited for out-door work, such as fence-posts, buried work, cS:c. It is perhaps worth while here just to touch upon the various technical terms applied to the sizes into which pine and other woods are cut. In its largest state (generally about one foot square and of indefinite length) it is known as timber, and when cut into three slices, these are known as deals—deal being only the name for a certain size of pine, and not, as is erroneously supposed by many, a species of wood by itself. A smaller size than deals, about seven inches by two or three, are termed battens; and deals ripped into three or four nearly square logs, of two inches by three, or three inches by four, are known as quartering. If sawn into slices of about one inch by nine to twelve wide, these slices go under the name of planks, which being again sliced form boards. If sliced diagonally, from corner to corner, feather-edged or weather-boards will be produced. These are used for roofs and outsides of sheds to throw off the wet. Thinner slices than boards are leaves and veneers, each different thickness being reckoned by its size in inches, or parts of an inch. In the midst of the immense variety of size and quality it would be useless to attempt to give any idea about cost; but pine may be obtained at any respectable timber-mer- chant’s at a cost within the capacity of almost every purse, as it is the cheapest of all woods. Walmct (Jnglans j'egia) is highly esteemed as a furni- ture wood, and is procurable of large size. The colour of the wood is grey,with brown or black blotches and streaks, which deepen in colour towards the centre of the tree. The grain is rather large and coarse, as the growth of the tree is comparatively rapid. Walnut is easily worked, and susceptible of a fine polish. Its principal consumption is for gun-stocks, for which it is admirably suited, owing to its light weight and durability. JOINTS. Having now the materials and tools before us, let us go through a short preliminary course of what may fairly be called carpenters’ joints, as the very essence of carpentry is a thorough knowledge of how to build up of many pieces a fabric of the greatest possible strength, with the smallest outlay of material, bearing in mind the influence which humidity or over-dryness exerts over all kinds of wood. If our reader is new to the work, let him commence by taking a log of quartering, say three feet long, and planing it up square, testing its accuracy as directed in our remarks on the square. When he has accomplished this feat satisfactorily, he may saw the log in half with the tenon-saw, and will then have two logs eighteen inches, long, with which to make the first and simplest joint in carpentry—the cross joint. The object will be merely to let the two pieces one into the other at right angles, until their corresponding surfaces are flush or level, that is to say, the part where the joint is made shall be no thicker than the log itself. The quartering, we will say, is. three inches by two, and we will make the joint flat-wise. Lay down log No. i, and mark a line across it with the square and pencil or striking-knife; from this line measure the width of the log to be let in, and also draw this line- across with the square, and produce each of these lines round the narrow sides of the log. Set the marking-gauge to half the thickness of the narrow side, and mark on both sides with it between the two lines. The part thus, marked off must be removed by sawing the lines across the grain, and then chiselling the piece out, thus leaving a gap in log No. I three inches wide and one inch deep. Take exactly the same course with log No. 2, and, if properly done, the two will fit exactly together, in the form of a cross. This joint may be varied, for practice, by placing the logs obliquely to each other, instead of at right angle^ in which case, the required" angle must be got by the mitre bevel, instead of the square. Fig. 41 shows the finished joint. This joint is much used in wooden erections, especially in its oblique form, as will be seen hereafter.