102 SERVANTS OF THE HOUSE. SERVANTS OF THE HOUSE.—I. DOMESTIC SERVANTS AND THEIR DUTIES. The servant grievance is being constantly discussed to very little purpose, simply because more people are capable of deploring an evil than suggesting a remedy. Admitting that the class of domestic servants has generally become more deficient in ability than any other body of labourers in the social scale, some allowances should be made for their shortcomings owing to the exceptional circumstances to which of late years they have been exposed. To cite only one cause, the increased facilities of locomotion. Formerly country girls were content to live from one year’s end to another in the same situations from shee'r inability to defray the expenses of travelling any distance. Now-a- days, railway trains have thrown the servant-market open, and, consequently, even remote provinces are drained of household help. The rush is to large towns, and especially to London, where wages are high, and dress and pleasures plentiful and cheap. Arrived at their destination, servant girls very likely find their mistresses unable or unwilling to help them. It used not to be so. Middle-class employers did not always consider it beneath them to engage practically in the work of housekeeping. But since the frenzy for display and excitement has seized upon all classes alike, mistresses are apt to impose upon their serv'ants responsibilities which the latter are unfitted by previous training to dis- charge. Nothing is more natural than that vexations and disappointments should be the result. It is not be expected that any sensible change for the better will take place yet awhile. Not until education proper has corrected the existing false notions of employer and employed, may we hope for a happier state. In the meanwhile, every mistress has it in her power to help the good time in coming, by fulfilling her own part of the contract with her servants scrupulously and diligently. The first step in this direction is, as far as possible, to make no engagements which do not promise to be of a lasting nature. By this is meant, not to engage a servant with a known unfitness for the place. Many ladies are prone to take young women into their service, just to stop a gap, Of to tide over a difficulty. All that they want is, to find some one to fill the place for a time, whilst they are suiting themselves at leisure. Of course it will be rem.arked, that it is impossible to do the work oneself, and that the risk must be run. To this it may be replied, that it should be every mistress’s endeavour to acquaint herself with “ servants’ work ” generally, in order to meet such emergencies. If ladies were supposed to possess this knowledge more generally than is commonly believed, servants would be less inde- pendent. And for this reason ; like other workers, they have to live by the demand for their ser\'ices. As it is at present, cooks that know nothing of cookery, and nurses that are ignorant of the nurture of childhood, get as good places, and oftentimes higher wages, than women who really know their business, and are high principled enough to do what they undertake. Apropos of wages. It is a very prevalent notion that high wages secure efficient service. The assumption, how- ever, is far from being well-founded. As a general rule, the best servants are satisfied with the average rate of wages, and care more for a comfortable situation, where the payments are fair and certain, than for higher remu- neration than is customary. Exceptionally high wages are apt to be regarded as a bribe rather than as a well-earned reward. It is better to pay for length of servuce than for the qualities naturally supposed to be possessed by servants in their respective places. Thus, if a servant enters a situation, say at twelve pounds a year, it is a better plan to increase her wages yearly one pound, than to pay a higher rate at the outset with no prospect of a rise. Many servants leave good places for the sole reason that they have no such encouragement to remain. The policy of refusing a similar increase is short-sighted, for “ changing” is generally a costly experiment. It is not to be supposed that wages are to go on continually increasing ; a limit has to be arrived at at last; but the limit should be the full extent of the employer’s means, and somewhat over and above the possible worth of the servant’s labours to a stranger. By this means, there is some very great possi- bility of securing personal interest, if not attachment, in those who serve. Intimately connected with wages is the finding of extras. For some reason or other, which it is difficult to account for, many housekeepers do not undertake to find grocery and beer, but allow money for those articles of consump- tion. Either such things are necessary to the diet of servants, or they are not. If they are necessary, it is better by far to provide tea, sugar, and beer, than to give money which may not be applied to its proper use. In point of economy, the money payment is a losing one, because a housekeeper having to feed a certain number of persons daily, the better all the meals are supplied, the more regular is the consumption likely to be. A girl that goes without a good tea is more likely to prove an inordinate supper-eater than one who has previously enjoyed a good meal. With regard to beer money. If beer be a necessary, the money ought to be spent in buying the required nourishment; if not, there is no sense in giving wages in lieu of it. Perquisites are happily going out of fashion; but a certain class of servants still stipulate for them. The principle is bad, and tends more to promote dishonesty than any other flaw in our social habits. When a mistress once allows her servants of their own accord to dispose of any articles, it is almost impossible to draw a line between what is a rightful perquisite or what is a misappropriation, not to say a theft. The articles may be of small worth, and, perhaps, useless to the owner ; but the power of dis- posing of such things is a temptation to swell the profits by unfair means. In a well-managed household every remnant of food and clothing should be disposed of by the mistress’s hand. If she pleases to give away things that are useless to herself, the gift is acknowledged as such.. Op the other hand, if a servant has |the power of taking certain articles as a right, no thanks are due. Dripping, bones, rags, and worn-out apparel all have their uses, as we shall endeavour to prove in the course of subsequent articles on this subject. With regard to a plan of household work. Whether an establishment be large or small, positive rules should be laid down for observance in all that relates to the comfort of the family and the despatch of work. The best plan is to have the order of work and rules, for the in-coming and out-going of the servants legibly and tersely written, and pasted on the walls of the kitchen. A little ornamental bordering and varnish makes the pla- card appear both pleasing and permanent. Any express duty required of the servant should be particularised thereon. In order to carry out the above plan successfully, the mistress should have a corresponding table at hand for her own reference, so as not to give contrary orders in- advertently, and thereby nullify the rules. Whether “followers" are allowed is a question often put by a servant on applying for a situation. Except under very rare circumstances, it is better to disallow the privilege. While speaking on this subject, we may add that the word “followers” has aw^eryelastic meaning, and as it is difficult to draw a line between those that are unobjectionable and otherwise, no hardship can be felt in refusing to admit visitors to the kitchen save upon express