FURNITURE. 156 Chairs, tables, and washstands are made of it. It never stains nor spots, nor do water drops show on it so much as on mahogany. There is little if any difference in the price of these woods. Full-sized Arabian bedsteads may be had at prices from 17s. 6d. to twelve guineas. A bedroom may be furnished for ^120, and yet not have anything in it excessively costly, or for ^38, or for £20, and less; all depends upon material, workmanship, and design. There is little difficulty in selecting furniture when expense is no object, but when means are limited it is another affair. It may be asked what kind of bedsteads will best repel insects. Experience has shown that wood and iron are invaded without distinction, and that no wood is known to be safe from them except one, and this is quassia, or the bitter-wood of commerce. As a wood for bedroom furniture which shall look well to the eye, and be really useful, mahogany or walnut, even for limited means, is in the end the cheapest, because it never wears shabby, and it can be cleaned and polished. Beechwood bedsteads, when painted in imitation of oak, and varnished, look clean and even handsome, but in three years they require cleaning and fresh japanning, as it is termed. Japanned imitations of maple look as if spotted by flies or other insects. There is very little difference in the price between a plain mahogany and a painted Arabian, or half-tester bedstead ; but a very handsome mahogany would, of course, be considerably dearer; still, a good-looking bedstead of mahogany is attainable for a moderate price. In cheap bedsteads there are generally some defects. They are as showy as others more expensive, but the blemishes have to be discovered. If a bedstead be dis- played in an upholsterer’s shop, and it be chosen, probably the intending purchaser will be told that one equally good, if not better, can be sent. The one shown is only a specimen, and cannot readily be taken down. How- ever, examine well the uprights which support the head, see that there are no cracks or warp of wood, also observe the places where the casters are screwed on; see that the mid-rib—if it may be so called, the piece of wood which underneath the laths extends from head to foot of the bedstead—is strong and unwarped, and that the laths fit in easily. It would be a most desirable thing if makers of bedsteads would introduce narrow laths of some flexible material, instead of the miserable deal laths now prevalent, and which necessitate a straw palliasse, a wool mattress, and a bed ; better have the entire space between the sides filled with plain wood, not laths, for then the palliasse can be dispensed with. Spring mattresses are excellent so far as they go, but these, too, have their discomforts. In some the springs are set on strong strips of wood, and are entirely open to inspection, so that if one spring gets out of order, it can be replaced without trouble, and at little expense ; but the failing is that the surface material being drawn over the springs at the head and foot, the mattress is sunk when it should be higher at the head, or at least level with the centre. To obviate this defect a bolster stuffed with cotton flock should be placed at the head and foot. There is no doubt that spring mattresses are the best for comfort and cleanliness, but should have an addi- tional mattress on the top, to prevent unequal pressure on the springs. The mattress may be of horsehair, of wool, or of three or four coarse blankets, quilted not too closely together. The last contrivance has great advantages, inasmuch as blankets are easily detached from each other, washed, and put together again. A wool mattress must be understood as one not of cotton flocks—which lump quickly in hard masses—but of sheep’s wool. The variety in the prices of this kind arises from the equality and length of wool. The best are of pure wool, and will cost at least los. For the same price an excellent hair mattress can be purchased ; an inferior one, which. in appearance, thickness, and softness of wool, is equal to the first, will cost about i 7s. The one will be made of long wool, either pure from the sheep, or the combings from blankets in one process of their manufacture, and in their wear will not readily “ felt,” or the fibres separate into lumps. The inferior kind are made of wool picked from old carpets, worn blankets, &c., which is generally short, and of various colours, or brown only, and “ felts,” or masses, readily into lumps. In France wool mat- tresses are opened once a year. The wool is picked loose with the hand, the dust is beaten out with sticks, and when thus cleansed the mattress is re-made. In England it is the fashion to have what is termed a bor- dered style of mattress, and which only an upholsterer can re-make. In France the envelope of the wool is cotton, and in shape like a sheet, but with a line or mark dowm the centre. The women who re-make them lay the beaten wool in even layers on the half of the covering, then turn the remaining half over, sew the sides securely, and with a mattress-needle fasten the wool in its place at regular intervals, as is done in English mattresses. Feather beds are not now in such general use as for- merly. After they have been in use for some time, they should be purified by steam. There are several qualities of feathers, and of course a difference in the price ; as also of the ticking and the shape of the bed. A bordered bed is more expensive than a plain one, because there is more labour in making the casing. Excellent bed, bolster, and pillows, may be had for six pounds five shillings, and the very best for ten pounds. There are various qualities of goose feathers, distin- guished by different names, though to the uninitiated they appear very nearly alike in everything but colour. The best feathers are fluffy, with down on the stems, and are curved, or curled as it is termed—the fluffier the better— and the best white feathers have this fluffiness in perfec- tion; they are also cleaned and bleached. The difference of quality mainly consists in the feathers having a more or less degree of down on them. A good bed may easily be recognised if, on pressing it, the feathers rise quickly, forcing the ticking up with them. If, on the other hand, they do not rise, the feathers are old or of very inferior quality, but more likely old, because, if feathers are sub- jected to a steam process, they become cleaner, and their down and other filaments are rendered light and elastic. Much difference of opinion has arisen a&ut the whole- someness of sleeping upon feather beds. There is no doubt that spring mattresses will, when they can be cheaply made, supersede in a great measure feather beds, as being less liable to take infection, and more easy to arrange, and occasion less dust than feather beds. The dust which often arises in shaking feather beds, is due to a process used to prevent the feathers from coming through the ticking ; a cheating process, which respectable upholsterers ought not to adopt. It was formerly, and ought to be so now, the universal practice to rub the inside of the ticking with beeswax, which was wholesome and answered the de- sired end. Now, even the ticking of a good bed is painted over on the inside with whitening and size, or some equi- valent ; the result is, that when it is quite dry, the dust comes through. In purchasing a bed, have a portion of it ripped open, that no mistake may be made in the matter. In reference to wardrobes or their equivalents, the weight of the purse must determine which, some few hints may be given. Wardrobes may be had at any price, from five pounds to one hundred guineas, with a looking-glass in the centre door, or without. The straight glass is an excellent arrangement. A well-made winged wardrobe is a splendid piece of furniture, always provided that the ornamentations be not_too elaborate and minute. In these dust soon gathers and makes the whole thing look shabby. By a winged wardrobe we mean one with a centre door, with or without plate glass in it; this opens and