88 CHILDREN’S DRESS. Fig. 15. CHILDREN’S DRESS.—II. CLOTHING FOR INFANTS [continued from p. 34). Changf.s in fashion affect the clothing of infants less often than the toilettes of the more mature. The greatest alteration that has been made for some time regards the length of the little ones’ dress. Robes that once reached absurd proportions are curtailed to the length of a yard ; and the yard may even include the bodice. Of course, the petticoats and flannels are all shorter in proportion. Another way of making the baby’s flannel is shown in Fig. 18, which represents the back of the little garment, and Fig. 16, which displays the front. The back has either three or four box-plaits in one with the back breadth of the skirt. The front of the bodice is made of two plain pieces wide enough to wrap over one another, and joined by a band (which also goes over the plaits behind) to the skirt in front, which wraps over and ties on one side. The dotted line L shows how far the body of the flannel folds over on the under side. M shows where the under skirt ends, and is but- toned to the upper one. The third way of mak- ing a flannel, very suitable for sum- mer, is given in Fig. 23. A strip of flannel six inches deep and fourteen inches long, from G to G, is cut away to points each side, H and H. This is bound all round. The skirt is plaited and set on from I to i. There are semi- circles for arm- holes cut, and tape straps added at K and K. The dotted lines show the portions meant for the back, and to wrap over in front. The points are folded round the baby’s body, and tied by strings sewn on at H and H. Another necessary item will be 24 yards of good linen diaper, a yard wide. It will co’st about one shilling and sixpence a yard. Cut 24 squares from this, hem them round, and fold four times. For a pilch to wear over the squares, take a square of Welsh flannel, fold it shawl- shape, and cut it in half. Take off the two shawl ends, marked by the dotted lines N and N in Fig. 19, and gather it into a band, as in Fig. 15, about fifteen inches long. Button it at R and R, and add a loop at o al*so to fasten on to the buttons at R. Macintosh for extra-secure pilches can be bought by the yard. The House Cloak or Flatinel Shawl.—A yard of flannel twenty-seven or twenty-eight inches wide will be required. This must be shaped to an exact square of twenty-eight inches. To cut a square of anything always fold your material across, as shown in Fig. 12, bringing the material where it is cut across equally to the selvage at B. The fold comes at the dotted line C C, and when folded the material resembles Fig. 14. Cut it off at the dotted line D D D, you then have a square exact. To cut the baby’s wrapper, keep your square folded, as shown in Fig. 14, and cut it out as shown in the plain line in Fig. 25, the dotted line indicating the folded square. To ornament the flannel, work it all round the edge in scallops with blue or scarlet crochet silk, and work a dot in every scallop. To scallop the edge cut a card out, like Fig. 26, cutting holes for the rounds. This can be done by tracing the outline on the card first. Then with a red chalk pencil mark the scallops and holes all along the edge of the flannel. Run them over with cotton, after- wards button-hole the edge in silk, and work the large dots in satin stitch. On the wrong side of the flannel square, at the dotted line marked S, in Fig. 25, put on a ribbon case, and run in a string to draw the hood round the baby’s neck. This flannel square is worn over the dress in the house during the month ; and afterwards when the child is car- ried from room to room. The common head flannels should be rather more than a yard square. The Baby's Cloak. — It has been very usual lately, and more fashionable, to drape a baby in a simple deep circular cape out of doors, in pre- ference to the old cloak with its cape. There is no essential dif- ference in the pattern needed. The cape is merely a cloak without its second cape, and with the trimming dif- ferent! y arranged. If ayoung mother have not a pat- tern for the purpose she can easily make one herself. In the first place, let her take one or two old newspapers, and tack three of them together neatly with needle and thread, as shown in Fig. 17. The centre of these united papers must be ascertained by doubling them. Then spread them out upon a table that has a cloth upon it. Pin the end of a yard measure securely to the centre, through the cloth at the top of the paper. Then take hold of it where the figures thirty-six denote the yard, and move it from end to end of the paper, holding a pencil in the same hand to mark its movements. The yard measure is pinned at A in Fig. 24, and moves from B to G at the other end, the thirty-six inches, or yard, marked on the tape, and then again from B to C. The line in the centre, it will be observed, is exactly straight, being rendered so by folding the paper after the circular line is made. Having marked the half circle ihus described with a pencil, allow it at the line C and G, each side of the centre B, five inches shorter, according to the dotted line D D. Pencil this nicely off as shown in the illustration. Now Fig. 12. '14 ^ f. f 1 V'' * \ ^ .•'v r H ? f 5 I- * V ^ Fig. 17.