29 CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. DOMESTIC SURGERY.—II. HEMORRHAGE [continued from p. 10). In all cases of bleeding from the hand or arm it is im- portant that the limb should be kept quiet, and in a raised position. For this purpose, and for many others, a sling is most conveniently made of a silk handkerchief, which should be folded like a cravat, and of a convenient width. The limb being placed in the loop of the sling, the front end is to be brought forward over the opposite shoulder, and the other end over the shoulder of the same side to meet it at the back of the neck, as seen in the illustration. In this way the arm will be drawn forward, and can be easily raised to any height, and the sling will not slip as it always does if tied in the opposite way (Fig. 9). Bleeding from cuts about the face is seldom serious. Fig. 9. Fig. II. and a strip of plaister should be put across the wound on each side. Stitches should not be left in the skin of the face more than two days, and should then be cut close to the knot with a sharp pair of scissors, and drawn out gently. Narrow strips of plaister applied across a wound, 1 and slightly overlapping one another, will, in many cases, I obviate the necessity for stitches. 1 In wounds about the head, a little of the hair on each j edge of the wound should be cut away, and a pad of lint ! be placed over it, and be bound on firmly with a bandage. ; This will of course vary somewhat according to the posi- tion of the cut, but will consist essentially of one or two turns round the front and back of the head, which should be secured with a pin, followed by a turn beneath the chin and over the top of the head, which will keep the other tight, as in the illustration (Fig. 10). unless the lip should be divided by a blow upon the mouth, in which case a surgeon should be immediately consulted, or the resulting deformity may be great. Collodion is a very useful application to cuts about the face, and in applying it the part should be firmly pinched with the fingers for a few moments, so as to stop the bleeding, then having been wiped dry, the collodion may be painted on, and after a few minutes, when it has dried, the part may be released from the fingers. Court plaister may be applied with the same precautions, care being taken that both sides of the plaister are thoroughly wetted, without removing the adhesive material. In extensive cuts upon the face, it is advisable to have recourse to stitches of silk, in order to reduce the resulting scars to a minimum. In cases when the assistance of a medical man cannot be obtained, an ordinary stout sewing needle, with purse-silk or stout cotton, may be pushed through the whole thickness of the skin on each side of the cut, and an eighth of an inch from the margin, and the silk be tied in a double knot when the loop has been drawn tight, so as to bring the edges together. One stitch will be required for a cut an inch long, and so on in proportion ; The trunk and lower limbs are seldom wounded, unless the injury is a severe one, which would necessitate im- mediate medical attendance. Before this arrives, the only assistance bystanders can give is to stop any bleeding, either by making pressure upon the bleeding spot, or by encircling the limb with a handkerchief tourniquet as already described. A burst varicose vein in the leg gives rise to serious bleeding, which will be dangerous if not rapidly checked. As the accident ordinarily happens when the patient is standing, she (for it is usually women who suffer from varicose veins) should immediately lie down, and the leg should be raised, whilst a bystander presses the finger upon the bleeding point. A pad of lint and a firm bandage should then be applied, and the patient should rest the leg fora few days, and continue the use of the bandage as long as the veins are swollen. To bandage a leg properly, the foot must be raised and the bandage secured round the ankle by crossing the ends in front of it, as represented in Fig. I2. The bandage is then carried beneath the foot, and again around the ankle once or twice, and then round the leg, each turn over-