6 HINTS ON CARVING, v/ater should be good drinking water, pure both to the taste and smell—water which dissolves soap without curdling, and which boils fresh vegetables green, and dry vegetables (as peas and haricots) tender. None is better than rain-water, when it can be had clean and without the taste of soot. Stagnant water, hard water, and water from melted ice or snow, are all to be avoided. The quality of the water has a considerable effect on the quantity of it which the flour will take up. The quantity varies according to the kind of bread you want to make, and even according to the season. You can put in more water in winter than in summer, because the dough re- mains firmer in winter than in summer. It takes more water to make soft bread, like the French, than to make firm bread, like the generality of bakers’ bread in England. When it is kneaded with salt and yeast, as for making unusually light rolls, there enters into the composition of the dough almost as much water as flour. The smaller the rolls are, the less stiff the dough should be. But, as we have already stated, exact precision in these matters is not possible. In kneading dough, too much water is less inconvenient than too little. Never- theless, when the dough is too moist, the “eyes” in the bread become too big, irregular, and unequal ; and the crust is apt to separate from the bread and get burnt. Oaten bread requires to be made with warm water, good yeast and plenty of it, and to be well kneaded ; to be thoroughly baked in a hot oven, and left there some time, according to the size of the loaf, because the inside is apt to be pasty. Barley-bread takes less yeast, but should also be thoroughly baked in a brisk oven. The German pea- santry make bread with a mixture of barley-flour and potatoes, which they highly relish, custom being second nature. For rye-bread, make a stiff dough with cold water and plenty of good yeast; knead well; when risen, put it into a smart oven, and be in no hurry to take it out. In Sweden, bread is made with a mixture of flour and barley ; in some districts, buckwheat-flour is mixed with rye-flour. When yeast cannot be got, we recommend the following way of making Bread without Yeast.—To every half-quartern of flour, add one teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, and half a tea- spoonful of salt. Mix all together; then, to the water sufficient to make a dough, add half a teaspoonful of muriatic acid. Set into the oven at once. This makes beautiful sweet bread, and is wholesome. Some use tar- taric acid ; in which case the bread will contain tartrate of soda, which, although not poisonous, is medicinal— slightly purgative even. On the other hand, muriatic acid neutralises soda just as well as tartaric acid, and the resulting compound is only common salt. Potato Pic.—There is one dish, a home invention, which will be found both useful and economical, and Fig. /j.. of which an illustration is annexed. Take a good- sized pie-dish. Cut out a tin lid which will fit down an inch at least below the level of the rim of the dish (Fig. 4). This must be perforated, and have a wire handle at each end. Fill the pie-dAh with slices of cold meat two boiled onions, a little seasoning, and a cup of water; flour the meat, and set on the tin lid. Pile upon the lid cold mashed potatoes, done up with salt, pepper, and a little dripping (as shown in Fig. 5), and bake, either in a regular oven or before the fire, for an hour. When served, lift up the lid and place it with the potatoes upon a spare dish. S. Potato Dumpling.—This cheap, simple, and whole- some preparation of food, not much known in England, but which forms the daily meal of poor artisans and others in North Germany (who never taste meat, and, as they say, never think of it), will be found to supply a useful variety in nurseries, and for invalids whose allow- ance of meat is limited. The potatoes, which must be mealy and of good quality, are cooked in the usual way, and then pounded. To three parts of potatoes put one part of wheat-flour, with a little salt, and mix them well together. Milk sufficient to make a paste is then stirred in, and it is to be boiled in a cloth or basin. The proper length of time for cooking can only be learned by experience, but it must be well boiled. It will then be firm and light, and may be eaten either with butter or meat gravy, or with cooked apple, stewed prunes, jam, treacle, or other sweet sauce. It is very pala- table with salt fish, or meat, while the addition of suet, currants, raisins, and sugar converts it into a nice plum- pudding. HINTS ON CARVING.—I. It has been said that “a poet is born, not made;” and so it- is to a great extent with the carver. The skill to carve well depends on certain qualities that are gifts in the possessor—a true eye, a steady and skilful hand. Still, even those who do not possess a natural aptitude, acquire the art by care and perseverance sufficiently to enable them to acquit themselves without awkwardness, or the risk of wasting and spoiling what they attempt to carve, though they may never be able to attain to that almost magical dexterity with which some people appear to be gifted ; and even those who possess ,this natural skill will find it useless, unless they take care to discover the best and most advantageous modes of cutting the viands brought to table. There are many persons who fancy that as long as a joint is cut up, it little matters how it is done ; they would, by travestying the words of Shakespeare, “ stand not upon the order of their cutting, but cut at once,” and have a notion that all attempts at choice carving are con- temptible—mere extravagances of fancy, or epicurean self-indulgence. But no greater mistake was ever made. Not only is it true that meat is twice as nice if nicely divided, but also a joint properly carved will go nearly twice as far as another of simflar size and weight clumsily cut up; and every careful housewife and true economist will do her best to master the art of carving as soon as possible. Not only will she be taking the best means to avoid waste, but she will also get-the credit of keeping a w'ell-provided table ; for even where there is but little to serve, if it is w'ell cooked, well carved, well served, and neatly put on the table, a single dish is preferable