312 THE SOURCES OF OUR FOOD SUPPLY. HOW TO MAKE A WHEEL OF FORTUNE. For small children’s parties and for fancy bazaars, wheels of fortune are often in request. A small old muff-box is a very good thing to use for making a wheel of fortune. Sew it together if torn. Take the lid off and the top out of the lid. Sew this on to the box. Cut a small square out of the box on one side, just large enough to admit the hand. Entirely cover the box and the square cut out with coloured paper. The square must be covered both sides. The box must have a straight piece pasted round it, and turned down at the ends, and over this, at the ends, two rounds of paper pasted on. Scarlet morocco paper is the best to use, or yellow morocco paper. Cut out the paper covering the hole when the paste is dry. Bind the hole and the square of card both round with ribbon of one colour. Fix the square to the top of the hole with a ribbon bow. At the opposite side sew a loop of elastic under a bow of ribbon to the square and a nook on the box, over which the loop can be fastened to shut the door over the hole. For the stand, a square of wood larger than the round is needed. Get two bill-files— those without wooden ends, but only wire rings, are best— nail these down to the two ends of the piece of wood with tin tacks, so that they can have the hooks thrust through the sides of the barrel, and that it can turn on them. Before adding the barrel, however, cut strips of the paper and cover the wires of the bill-files spirally, and run gold paper at distances over this ; then cover the stand with the morocco paper, and put handsome bows of ribbon on each of the hooks of the files, just to hide the hole in the barrel. Both barrel and stand may be orna- mented with gold. Strips of embossed gold paper laid on both a little way in from the edges, and stars or other ob- jects stamped in gold tinsel, may be used according to fancy. When a muff-box can- not be had, make the barrel of bonnet board, cutting the round ends by a bow pencil or a cheese-plate. To use the wheel, fill it inside with square inches of card, blank and figured. Hold the stand with the hands on the table. Whilst the company gently turn the barrel by a playful stroke, open the door and draw. It must not be used roughly, of course. We fix it on the table by the help of a screw pin-cushion. THE SOURCES OF OUR FOOD SUPPLY.—VIII. SUGAR, SPICES, ETC. Sugar.—There are several kinds of sugar, but there are only two ordinarily used as food in this country—viz., that obtained from the sugar-cane {Saccharutn officma- rum), and from the sugar-beet, which is a variety of the Beta vulgaris. The former is a handsome plant, about twelve feet high, which yields sugar chiefly from the lower and ripe part of the stem, the quantity obtained being about 70 lbs. from each 100 lbs. of cane. The beet-root is usually about 2i lbs. in weight, and contains about 12 per cent, of sugar, which is of the same kind as cane- sugar. Sugar for purposes of distillation is obtained by the action of sulphuric acid on starch—chiefly potato- starch—as well as on cellulose, which constitutes the chief bulk of cotton and linen rags, paper, and woody fibre. This is called grape-sugar, or glucose. It possesses similar properties to sugar obtained from the grape, and is therefore much used in strengthening worts in brewing, and for distilling spirit or alcohol. Another variety of grape-sugar exists in malt—which is sprouted and dried grain, chiefly barley. Milk-sugar, which is little used, except in the preparation of homoeopathic medicine, is mostly procured from the milk of cows or goats, and is imported from Switzerland. The purest sugar—called “ refined ”—is white and sparkling, and is made from raw sugar, by boiling at as low a temperature as possible, and filtering through charcoal, &c., by which the golden syrup and treacle., as well as the impurities, are removed. The sugar-cane grows in most tropical and sub-tropical climates, and has long been cultivated in Asia, the islands of the Indian and Pacific Oceans, and, at a later date, in America. Our chief supplies of raw cane-sugar are chiefly derived from the West Indies, Brazil, Mauritius, and India, the best being that from Demerara. Beet-sugar is largely manufactured in France, Belgium, and Germany, and to a small extent in England, the total quantity made in 1875 having been estimated at 700,000 tons, which is considerably more than one-third—perhaps nearly one-half—of the total quantity of cane-sugar im- ported into Europe. Very large amounts of this sugar, when refined, are imported into this country ; indeed, there is comparatively little English refined sugar now used. Sugar is a very important article of diet, especially for the young and old, as it is readily ab- sorbed into the circulation, and used up in the body as a heat-producer. If taken in too large quantities, it may cause deranged digestion, and induce the formation of fat rather than of muscular tissue. The importation of sugar into this country has enor- mously increased since the duty was entirely removed. In 1869 the total weight of refined and raw sugar, and of molasses, was 13,054,323 cwts.; whilst in 1875 it reached the enormous amount of 19,893,897 cwts., the weight of refined sugar being 2,860,776 cwts., against 1,068,940 cwts. in 1869; of raw sugar, 16,264,711 cwts.; and of molasses, 768,410 cwts. The value of refined sugar im- ported in 1861 was ;,6425,922; in 1869, ;£i,774,858 ; and in 1876, ^4,094,299: of raw sugar, in 1861, £12,163,308; in 1869, £13,540,917; and in 1876, £16,292,158—so that by far the greatest proportional increase has taken place in refined sugar, in consequence of the very largely- extended cultivation of sugar beet-root on the Continent. In 1875 the total value of sugar exported was £969,875, which showed that the value of sugar retained in 1875 was £20,528,683. Condiments and Spices.—Although these are not strictly foods, yet an account of our food supplies would scarcely be complete without a reference to them, as they are in daily use by every one. The chief of the former class are mustard, pepper, horse-radish, and the fruits of certain plants mixed together and known as curry-powder. There are also several herbs, such as parsley, mint, mar- joram, thyme, fennel, &c., which are included under this head, but do not require more than a mere mention. The acrid or Black Mustard is the seed of the Brassica nigra, which is a native of most European countries. It is largely cultivated in England, but the best is grown in Yorkshire and Lincolnshire. It is very much smaller than the white mustard-seed, contains a fixed oil, and affords a pungent essential oil on water being added