COOKERY. 258 as low as it is possible for it to go. This tap, C, although placed sideways, is, in internal arrangement, exactly like a common beer or spirit-cock. As the supply of water increases in bulk, and height of surface, the ball, like a metal bubble, forces its way upwards with the rising tide, until at length, on reach- ing the position, as shown in Fig. 2, the inward flow is stopped by the turning of the tap to the shut position. So it will be at once seen that, high or low, the ball follows the line of surface. This condition of affairs would be satisfactory enough, provided it would always last. Unfortunately, however, certain chemical laws step in and upset mechanical arrangements. Con- stant exposure to air, moisture, and the acid impurities held in solution by water, causes oxidation of the metal composing the ball to take place. Minute pin-hole-like orifices rapidly form, and through these water freely passes. The ball, instead of a float becomes a sinker, keeping the supply-tap always open, and if a capacious waste-pipe, as a precaution in event of accidents, has not been thought- fully provided, not only unnecessary expenditure of water, but destruction of valuable property by wet may be the result. Not only the metal globe, but the tap as well, is not unfrequently so much oxidised as to become inefficient. The barrel of the tap at times becomes so tight in its cylinder from this cause that the lever is not powerful enough to turn it. In this case, too much or too little water maybe suffered to pass through it, just as the orifice in the barrel happened to be turned large or small when motion ceased. So it will be seen that the ball-cock is liable to derangement from several causes, which, being familiar to the reader, admit, in many cases, of remedy, or at least palliation. Modern engineering skill has, however, stepped in to the aid of the consumer of water, and a far more perfect form of both supply and expense tap than that just described has lately been introduced to our notice. This arrangement, appropriately named the “ Economiser,” is represented in the accompanying illustrations. Fig. 3 is a sectional view of the supply- regulating apparatus. Instead of acting as a tap, the Economiser works as a valve, which drops by its own Weight and is raised by a floating cup, E, placed at the end of the lever, instead of a hollow ball. The advantages ggiined over the old arrangement by the new one are as follows :—Perfect freedom from the chance of the float becoming a sinker by oxidation and perforation; self- power of closing the valve in event of the lever being broken ; freedom from liability to become fixed, or “ stuck,” as it is called ; and rapidity and delicacy of regulating power, which is so great that on a decrease of three-fourths of an inch of water taking place in the cistern the Econ- omiser is in a position to pour in a supply to the extent of its full-bore capacity as a compensation. Instead of metal bearing against metal, as in a common tap, the bearing- flange of the Economiser rests on a thick seating of india- rubber, as shown at D, in Fig. 3—which is a sectional view of the Economiser as applied to the inflow—F, its lever, shown broken on account of its length. Fig. 4 repre- sents the arrangement as used for drawing off liquids by hand. On the lever, G, being pressed backward, the valve is opened, and when the pressure is reversed, it falls back to its closed position by self-action, thus guarding against all loss by waste. The subject of cisterns and water-reservoirs, to which contrivances such as those just describea can be applied, will be treated of in a future paper. We shall thus exhaust the subject, as far as those of our readers are concerned who have to depend upon a public company for their water supply. We shall then pass on to the consideration of wells and pumps, and the sources from which water is best obtained, both as regards its quantity and purity. COOKERY.—XVI. BROTHS AND SOUPS. Roast Boiled Fowl {after Chicken Broth).—If the fowl is hot, take cold butter ; if it is cold, melt some butter in a cup. Smear the fowl all over with this, dredge it with flour, and put it to roast with a bottle-jack before a brisk fire. As soon as it begins to brown, baste it well with a little of the reserved broth and surface fat. A lump of butter rolled in flour and laid in the catchpan will greatly help the effect of the basting. Have ready a warm dish, in the middle of which you place a bed of the freshest, well-drained watercress. As soon as the fowl is nicely browned, and frothing all over, lay it on the watercresses, and serve, after pouring over it the contents of the catch- pan. For sauce to be sent up at the same time : To a breakfast-cup-full of rich melted butter, put two dessert- spoonfuls of pickled button mushrooms (if you have not them, one pickled walnut, or a few gherkins cut in pieces, may be used instead), one dessert-spoonful of the pickle vinegar, and two ditto of catchup. Mtitton Broth.—Take a pound of neck of mutton without the outer layer of fat; cut it, bone and all, into thin slices or cutlets. Set it on the fire in a quart of cold water, and let it boil gently for six hours. When it is I'educed to a pint, prevent its further diminution by filling up with hot water from time to time. When presented to the patient, he will season it with pepper and salt to taste. The fat may be partially removed by skimming while hot, and entirely when cold ; but the broth will be more nourishing if it is made to combine during the cooking with some farinaceous substance, as pearl barley or oatmeal groats. Another Recife.—To three quarts of cold soft water, put two pounds of scrag of mutton, cut up with the bones into pieces half the size of a walnut, two table-spoonfuls of pearl barley, a dessert-spoonful of washed rice, a large teaspoonful of oatmeal groats, an onion sliced, a leek cut into lengths, a leaf of celery (the green tip as well as the blanched stalk), half a turnip and a small carrot, or half a large one cut into dice, a teaspoonful of salt, and a sprig of thyme. Boil gently till all the solid substances have fallen to pieces, then strain through a coarse cullender. White Veal Broth.—Take either neck or knuckle of veal, and treat exactly as for mutton broth, Veal is not usually put into the pot-au-feu, its broth being reserved for invalids. Brown Veal Broth.—Fry sliced onions in butter till they are browned, not burnt. For three quarts of water, take two pounds of veal in slices with a fair proportion of cartilage and bone ; brown them on both sides in the butter and the frying-pan which cooked the onions. If you have a cold (fresh, not stale) roast meat bone (not mutton nor pork) or a few remains of cold roast fowl or game, you may add them. Then proceed as for the mutton broth, maintaining the quantity at two quarts. When done, a tablespoonful of catchup is a nice addition. Dr. Dobell’s Beef Tea.— Put one pound of minced rumpsteak into an equal weight (one pound) of water; macerate it for two hours at a temperature not exceeding one hundred and fifty degrees Fahrenheit, to yield one pint of beef tea. Beef Tea.—Use for this, not an iron saucepan, but an earthen pot with a well-fitting lid, which will stand without cracking the heat of the iron plate on the top of the cooking-stove, h'ill it from one-third to a quarter full of good lean beef cut into shapely pieces the size of a small walnut, in order that they may be presentable afterwards in a ratatouille, or as potted beef, seasoning slightly with salt and a few whole peppercorns. Then pour on cold water nearly to the brim, and set it on the plate or top of a cooking-stove to simmer gently several hours, taking off any scum and fat that may rise. The beef is not to be