210 THE SOURCES OF OUR FOOD SUPPLY. the right toes together, the left feet at right angles (Fig. 37). Pull firmly, but not too hard, twisting the right arm from right to left four times, and from left to right four times, keeping time to the music. Repeat this with the left hands, then with both hands, using two rings ; the pupils placing themselves back to back as well as face to face. 2. Turn face to face, both grasping both rings, and standing about two feet apart. Bring the rings down to the floor without bending the knees. 3. Stand in the same position, only nearer to each other. Raise first the right arms and then the left (Fig. 38), de- pressing the others, and keeping time to the music ; be careful not to bend the elbow. 4. Turn back to back, and thus raise first the right arms, and then the left, and then all together, above the head, down to the hips, and back to the shoulders (Fig. 39). Chest expanders aim at gradually extending and de- veloping the muscles without any forcing. Care should be taken to select those of moderate strength. 1. Standing at attention, the chest expander should be held in front of the pupil, the thumbs uppermost, the back of the hands outwards. It must thus be passed over the head, the arms well extended without touching either the head or back, and then returned to the original position. This exercise may be repeated, taking four steps forwards, and again rising slowly on the toes, lowering the heels as slowly while the arms are extended over the head. 2. Place the expander behind, the hands close to the shoulders, stretch the hands out as far as they will go ; first four times on one side, then four times on the other, then alternately, then together (Fig. 40). Then, after bringing the expander forward by extending it over the head, bend the body from the waist, keeping the knees perfectly straight till the expander touches the ground (Fig. 45). Return slowly to the original position. 3. Still keeping the expander behind, place the right hand to the right shoulder, the left arm close to the left side (Fig. 41), and stretch the right hand in an oblique direction ; then reverse the position, and repeat with the left. As a continuation to this exercise, pass the right foot well behind as the right arm is raised, return to the original position. Then the same with the left foot. Repeat these four times each. Then at every movement of the arm make a corresponding one with the foot, advancing four steps in front and four to the back, first the right foot and arm, and then the left, then the right arm and left foot together, and so on. 4. Place the expander in front in a line with the shoulders, the left elbow bent, the right extended. The point to be observed is, that the hand and elbow be kept in line with the shoulder (Fig. 42). Extend the left arm back to the original position, and then the right. 5. Hold the expander as in Fig. 43. The head turned in the opposite direction. Without moving the left arm, raise the right, returning to the original position; then bringing the hands to the opposite side, repeat with the left hand. 6. Place the expander at the back, the right foot and left arm forward, bend slowly on left knee, leaning well back, raising the right arm and depressing the left (Fig. 44). Rise to an erect position, and repeat. Perform the same movement with the left foot forward and the ex- pander in front. These exercises may be carried out by two pupils together using two expanders. They may be also per- formed by one pupil with two expanders attached to the wall. And, when necessary, expanders so secured may be used while the pupil is in a recumbent position on a properly-prepared reclining board or plane—apian highly to be commended in case of a weak spine. THE SOURCES OF OUR FOOD SUPPLY.—IV. EGGS, MILK, BUTTER, ETC. We shall next consider eggs, milk, butter, cheese, and lard. The eggs of all birds can be eaten by man, but those of the domestic fowl are chiefly used as food. The importation of eggs into this country has increased enor- mously within the last few years, as in 1870 there were only 400,000,000 imported, against 741,000,000 in 1875. The declared value in 1875 was ^2,561,000, which gives 8s. 3d. per great-hundred; and of this sum no less than ^2,078,569 belonged to France, the remainder being taken by Belgium, Spain, Portugal, and Germany. Iii 1876 the total was larger, having been ;,^2,6io,23i. This enormous importation is not to be wondered at, when their universal use is fairly considered. All eggs contain a white or albuminous part, and a yellow portion, the yelk, which is made up of fatty matters, albumen, sulphur, salts, and water. The flavour varies very much, and depends partially on the food; so that sea-gulls’ and ducks’ eggs are strong, while those of the common fowl, and especially of the plover, are sweet and full-flavoured. The yelk is more easy of digestion than the white, and is often eaten separately by invalids ; but this varies ac- cording to the amount of cooking, as a hard-boiled egg takes longer to digest than roast mutton—viz., about four hours. The amount of nutritive matter in eggs is almost two-thirds of that in a corresponding weight of meat. The weight of eggs varies; that of the goose being from four to six ounces, that of the turkey about four ounces, of the duck from two to three, and of the fowl from one and a half to two ounces. Eggs readily spoil, so that if desired to be kept they should be dipped, when newly laid, in strong lime-water, and when dry dipped again a second and a third time, by which means the pores of the shell are closed, and access of air prevented. Milk contains all the elements necessary for the proper nourishment of the body. The constituent parts vary according to the animal from which it is derived, as well as at different periods of lactation in the same animal. I f milk of average quality be taken as a standard, we may say that it is composed of 87 parts of water, 3I parts of fat, and 9§ parts of solids not fat. Good milk is occasionally richer, especially if from an Alderney cow, but is also some- times poorer than this standard. Although the quantity of cream differs rather considerably, it should amount to 10 per cent, of the milk, and can be easily determined by placing the milk in a marked tube (a lactometer), and allowing it to stand for twenty-four hours, and reading off the quantity. Skim milk is not so much used as it should be, as it is equally as good for making puddings, for, by adding half an ounce of dripping or suet to each pint of skim milk used, a corresponding quantity of fat will be replaced for the cream removed. When a very rich milk is required for an invalid or a child, goats’ milk should be used ; but if a milk for a delicate child, that of the ass is to be preferred. Warm milk is more easily digested than cold. Preserved Milk is prepared by adding cane sugar, and sometimes glucose, in the proportion of nearly two ounces to each pint of milk, and evaporating it in vacuum-pans at a temperature of about 170° Fah., the moisture being re- moved by a fan worked by steam, until about 75 per cent, of the water is carried off. It is a very good substitute for fresh cows’ milk, but is of course much sweeter. Cream is that part of milk which rises to the surface after standing some time, and consists of small globules of fat intermixed with skim milk. Cream contains about 66 per cent, of water, 26J of fat, rather less than 3 per cent, of nitrogenised matter and of sugar, with a little less than 2 per cent, of salts. It is sometimes used as a food by persons who are threatened with consumption.