134 LIFE ASSURANCE. that he was pining for companionship. He forced him- self beneath a stone apparently heavy enough to crush him, and shrank back whenever any attempt was made to get at him. In a day or two his anxious friends were pleased to see him come from his hiding-place, but Jack was no longer the same hard-skinned crustacean that he was before his retirement. In the first place, he had grown considerably ; in the next, instead of presenting a shelly coat to be stroked, his back was as soft as that of a frog, and he shrank from the touch as if he were afraid of being hurt. The fact was, that he had undergone the natural process of exuviation, and had shuffled off his shelly coil, which he had left beneath the stone that had lain upon him during his temporary withdrawal from society. In about a week his skin began to harden, and he became more familiar than before. Each morning, at breakfast time, he came to the front of the glass and tapped against it till he was fed. On his seeing any one approaching the glass he scrambled out of the water on to the stones that rose in the centre, and held out his claws for food, which he took from the fingers, and then scampered away like a monkey to eat it in a corner. On another occasion the crab’s decease was reported. An inquest was immediately held, and the body inspected in due form. Apparently there could be no reasonable doubt that he was dead. The post-mortem examination was made by means of a common magnifying-glass, through which could be seen his eyes, feelers, &c., and the unanimous verdict was, “ Found dead.” His habitation was of itself a pretty win- dow ornament, for the miniature rocks were nearly covered with bright green confervae, and around the sides were several tufts of sea-weed in a healthy condition ; it was, therefore, left undisturbed. After the lapse of several days, the familiar tapping sound in the glass was again heard ; several pairs of eyes, staring with wonder, were directed towards the residence of the late lamented, crab, and behold, there he stood, in his accustomed attitude of supplication, awaiting his breakfast. He had grown con- siderably, and was once more in a soft condition. This led to the examination of the supposed dead body, which had been placed in a box as a relic. On further ex- amination, it proved to be nothing but an empty shell, a fact which was not at first discovered, owing to its con- taining sand. No one who has not had an opportunity of witnessing the exuviated shell in a perfect condition can believe the possibility of the creature getting out of its old coat and appendages, including head, eyes, antennse, and claws, and leaving it in one complete piece. Very small shell-fish, such as young mussels and cockles, may sometimes be found on the shore near low- water mark. The mussels grow in clusters, and are attached to the rocks by threads called the byssus. Do not pull them away, but take your hammer and chip off a piece of the substance to which they cling. After a rough sea, the tide leaves numerous star-fishes in the crevices of the rocks. These are of various kinds, the prettiest being the sun-star, such as is shown in our illustration, which has twelve rays, and is best adapted for the aquarium. The commoner kind has but five lingers ; as this creature is voracious, it is advisable to select the smallest that can be found. The objects above mentioned, whicn afford sufficient variety, and are not difficult to keep with an ordinary amount of care, may all be obtained on the shore at Broadstairs, or at any place on the same coast where the rocks stretch out into the sea. There are, however, other localities where much more beautiful objects may be found. The coast of Dorset, Devonshire, and Cornwall is especially rich in zoophytes, some of which arc as beautiful in form and colour as the choicest flowers in the conservatory. There are certain methods of gathering that yield less common specimens of marine animals than those already described, f'or obtaining such as are not amphibious, the best plan is to engage a fishing boat and use the dredge. By this means you may obtain a greater variety of crabs (including the curious and interesting spider) and shells covered with tube-worms {serpulcB). These latter are well worth keeping in an aquarium. The tubes of the serpulm are generally attached to oyster- shells, and overlay each other in a serpentine form. On taking them out of the water, a blood-red spot will be seen at the mouth of each tube ; but after exposure it sinks down out of sight. On replacing it in water, the worm, will protrude a feathery coronet, with a kind of stopper in the centre ; but will instantly withdraw it if the hand be passed across so as to suddenly intercept the light. The illustration shows a group of these singularly-shaped creatures. LIFE ASSURANCE.—II. We will now assume that, after a careful examination of the various published statements of the Assurance Companies, an office has been selected by the applicant, and that he has been provided with the form of de- claration which is the basis of the contract between himself and the company. In this document he is called upon to set forth his name, description, and age next birthday—evidence of which should be furnished by the registrars certificate of birth, by an extract from a family Bible, or otherwise, when the age is admitted by the company, and no question can thereafter arise with reference thereto. He is I'equired, also, to state whether he has suffered from gout, spitting of blood, or from any disorder tending to shorten life ; and he has to give the names of two persons, to be referred to as to his health and habits of life, and generally to reply to the questions as to his health and family history that may be asked him by the medical officer of the company, before whom he has to appear for examination as to his health. Per- sons in decidedly bad health are not eligible for life assurance ; but for any trifling deviation from the usual standard, an extra premium may, perhaps, be required, varying, with the circumstances of the case, according to the report of the medical examiner of the company. This ordeal having been gone through, and the life having been “ passed ” by the doctor, the risk is accepted by the directors, the premium is fixed, and the amount thereof announced to the applicant, which he has to pay in the course of a month from the date of acceptance. On the premium being paid, the policy is prepared, and in due course issued. It is a legal document, signed by three directors of the company, and impressed with the neces- sary government stamp, at the expense of the office, and binds the company, in consideration of the regular pay- ment to them of the annual premium, to pay to the legal representativ'e of the policy-holder the sum contracted for, at the expiration of three months from the death of the person assured. The policy recites the conditions as to foreign residence, death by suicide, duelling, or the hands of justice, &c.; and declares the contract to be void if the declaration upon which the policy is based be untrue. Too great care, therefore, cannot be exercised in filling up the necessary forms, and in replying fully and honestly to the inquiries of the medical examiner. The policy must be carefully preserved for production to the office by the legal representative of the assured upon the claim arising. Formal notice of the annual premiums becoming due is regularly given by the office in writing ; and they must be paid within a month of their becoming due, otherwise the policy becomes void—or “ lapses,” as it is termed—and all advantage from the previous payments is lost to the holder. After the expiration of five, or, in some offices, seven years, the policy, if effected on the participating scale of