132 THE AQUARIUM. jewels and trinkets presented to her by relations and friends upon or after her marriage, and these she may dispose of as if she were unmarried, and they cannot be touched by her husband or his creditors, unless her husband survives her, and they are otherwise undisposed of. She may also claim her paraphernalia—that is, her wearing apparel and jewels suitable to her station in life ; but gifts of jewellery from her husband made before or after marriage she cannot claim until his death. During his life he may sell, pawn, or otherwise dispose of such articles, and although he cannot leave them to any one by will, they are liable to his debts both before and after his death. The husband is absolute owner during his wife’s life of her leasehold property, although he cannot dispose of it by will; so if he dies before her it will revert to her, whilst if he survives her it will become his absolutely. If the wife is possessed of freehold property at the time of her marriage which has not been settled distinctly upon her, the husband has what is called a freehold interest in it during their joint lives ; that is, he is sole tenant, and can lease, mortgage, or otherwise dispose of it to the extent of his interest in it. In such cases if he sur- vive his wife, and has had issue by her capable of in- heriting the property, he is tenant for the rest of his life in all her freehold estates. Such cases, however, occur rarely, as it is usual for a settlement to be drawn up on behalf of the lady before her marriage. Now all settlements must be in writing, as well as all agreements for a settlement. Settlements may be made before marriage or after marriage. A settlement made before marriage in consideration of {i.e. with a view to) marriage, holds good against every claim ; it cannot be impeached (unless it can be proved to have been drawn up in a fraudulent manner), even by creditors of the hus- band or wife. The same law applies to a settlement made after marriage, if drawn up in pursuance of an agreement for a settlement entered into before marriage. A settlement made after marriage, unless in pursuance of an agreement beforehand, cannot bar the claims of existing creditors, nor those of subsequent ones, if it is made with the intention of defeating their future claims ; if, however, it be made without fraudulent intention by a husband not indebted at the time, the settlement will bar the claims of subsequent creditors, unless the husband becomes bankrupt within the space of two years afterwards, buch a settlement is also binding on the settler when once completed, and he cannot undo it. If a husband dies without having previously made a will, and in absence of a settlement, the wife is entitled to a life interest in the freehold lands and houses which he possessed ; if he dies without a will and without issue, she is entitled to one half of his personal property; that is, property in money, goods, &c.; if, however, he dies without a will, but leaves issue, she is entitled only to a third part. .Such is a brief synopsis of the law as regards property; the next step to be discussed is, how far a husband is liable for debts contracted by his wife. Formerly a husband upon his marriage took upon him- self all his wife’s debts and liabilities, but an important statute, known as the Married Women’s Property Act, passed in the year 1870, expressly absolves the husband from these—the wife remaining liable to be sued for them, and any separate estate of hers being applicable to their liquidation. So long as the married couple live together, the wife is presumed to have her husband’s authority to make con- tracts for the supply of articles, &c., suitable to her and his station in life. If, however, he is in the habit of supplying such articles, &c., to his wife, and this fact is known to their tradespeople, cither by notice from him or otherwise, the husband is not bound to pay debts con- tracted for such articles. A married woman is now liable to maintain her chil- dren out of her separate property, just as a widow would be ; but the husband is thereby not relieved from his pecuniary liability. If a wife leaves her home with her husband’s consent, or by reason of his ill-usage, and without misconduct on her part, and he makes her no allowance, he is liable for necessaries supplied to her even by those tradesmen whom he has warned against her. When a husband and wife are living apart, it is the business of the tradespeople to inquire into the circumstances of the case before trusting the wife, as a husband is by no means bound to give notice to them of-the separation. A husband may give authority to his wife to act as his agent, as he may to any other person, and in this capacity she may collect rents, pay money, sign cheques, draw bills, &c., for which he will be answerable until he revokes the authority. By the before-mentioned statute the earnings of a married woman are to be deemed her own property, personal property coming to her, not exceeding £,200 in value, and deposits in savings banks, &c., also the rents of freehold property descending to her are deemed to be her separate estate, and a married woman is empowered in her own name to bring an action therefor, or for wages due to her. THE AQUARIUM.—V. MARINE AQUARIUM (continuedfrom p. 106). As you proceed with your search among the rocks and turn over the sea-weed, some yellow shells will very probably be found adhering to the under surface, and occasionally a small whelk or periwinkle. A few of these should be gathered for the sake of variety. Upon the rocks will be noticed round patches of sea grass, varying in size from a shilling to that of a crown piece. Under- neath these will be found the limpet (Patella vulgaris), to the shell of which the grass grows. There is the same difficulty with the dislodgment of the limpet as with the anemone. It no sooner feels the touch than it clings tightly to the rock, and as the edge of the shell is embedded in the chalk it is not an easy task to remove it. By selecting one the shell of which is slightly raised, and putting the blade of a pocket-knife beneath the edge, it may be jerked off without injury. Some limpets are covered with a shelly parasite, called the acorn barnacle (Balanus) ; one of these should be secured, care being taken- that none of the shells are broken. When these are placed in a glass of clear sea-water, and looked at through a magnify- ing-glass, they will be seen to open a door in the roof of the shell, and protrude a feathery fan, by means of which food is caught and conveyed through the aperture. Unfortunately, they have a tendency to die after a brief confinement; they should therefore be carefully examined in a separate vessel, before being introduced. Some of the rock-pools, on close examination, present an exceedingly pretty sight. Sea-weeds of various colours cover the bottoms, and give them the appearance of minia- ture forests. As a rule, imported sea-weed does not grow well in an aquarium, but as it looks pretty for a time, and may easily be removed when it begins to show signs of decay, a few pieces should be secured. The way to obtain these is to chip off pieces of the rock upon which it grows, for which purpose a hammer is required. Sea- weed is of no use for aquarium purposes unless attached to a stone or piece of rock. Vegetable growth is necessary to the healthy maintenance of the aquarium, but this will soon develop itself from the germs contained in the water, and gradually cover the stones and rockwork. The next curiosity to be sought after is the hermit crab, which you will certainly not find unless you know how to go about it. This creature may be described