CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. 245 are drawn through the rings. This is very graceful, is inexpensive, and when w’ashed and ironed, always looks as good as new. In France great taste is shown in the arrangement of the drapery of a bedstead. It is often placed in an alcove in a sitting-room, one side of the bedstead not projecting beyond the walls, which are level with it. Overhead hangs a drapery of silk, relieved with lace or white muslin. A most convenient form of bedstead, and which takes up but little room, is convertible into a couch by day, and can be shortened or lengthened at pleasure, to form either a child’s cot, or, at night, a bed for an adult. The mattresses and pillows necessary for this arrangement are sold with the bedstead, which is two feet six inches wide. It can also be folded into a small compass, and be placed away, or taken as a part of travelling equi- page. The best form we have seen of corres- ponding good taste, with the advantages of English manufacture, is that figured in the accompanying cuts. Figs. 2, 3, 4. They are manufactured by almost all the well-known ironmongers and general furnishers, who have certainly attained in this country a high degree of perfection in every department of bedroom furniture. In a long and narrow apartment—if means are limited, so that one room only can be used for both bed and sitting-room—the space at the end of it can be utilised, and the greater equality of proportion will make the room appear more square, and longer even than its original size. We will imagine that one side of a bedstead, whether of brass or iron, is placed against the centre of the wall, at the head a portable closet, Figs. 5 and 6, with shelves and a deep drawer; at the foot an enclosed wash- stand, and the whole hidden by a damask curtain of the width of the room; the curtain, hung upon a brass or mahogany rod, supported by three iron staples screwed into the joists of the ceiling. The whole affair, bedstead, press, washstand, and curtain, will not cost more than ^10. Four-post Bedsteads.—The mate- rials composing these are wood,brass, and iron, or a combination of the latter two. They are of two shapes— the oblong tester and the tent. For the latter, the whole of the hangings, including the curtains, are generally made in one piece, but in this way the furniture is troublesome to wash. It is better to sew the curtains on to the head, foot, and sides of the bedstead. The curved iron of its roof is to be covered with list or strips of old flannel; tapes are not thick enough. Each curtain, of which there are four, is made of three breadths of wide or four of narrow dimity. The measurement for the hangings commences at the bottom of the head part, a little below the laths, and is continued over the tester or domed roof to the foot. As dimity shrinks much in the washing, a half yard extra must be allowed for it, and it may be folded in at the head or foot. The lining should be measured in the same way, the posi- tion of the bars of iron marked in it by creases. Upon the end of these, four strings of two ends each, should be sewed, that the lining may be tied to the bars. A covered button on the right side conceals the sewing on of the strings. The white dimity is now put on outside of this. The curtains must each have a deep hem, to allow of the material shrinking, and be measured from the highest part of the bedstead, and after the first is cut and sloped, the remaining curtains can be cut from the dimity so as to save the material, by utilising the space occasioned by the slope of one curtain to the slope of another. The curtains should be sewed on to be easily re- movable, but must be first gathered to the right size, and bound with red lace, a white binding sold for the purpose, and a plain band of the same sewed inside the binding, and by this the curtains are sewed on. As the bed- lace shrinks in the washing, it must not be strained in sewing it, but rather put on full. The canopy bedstead is an extremely pretty and inexpensive style. One six feet six in length, by five feet, can be had for less than forty shillings ; with this the drapery is in one length, and secured to the centre top bar by strings of ribbon. All hangings of this kind should have a deep bullion fringe at each end, to keep the furniture even and heavy where most needed. The width of it should be four times that of the bedstead, and this will admit of its falling over on each side, thus forming a curtain. A lining may be added in the same way as directed for the tent shape. Four-post bedsteads, of mahogany or other wood, are even now by many persons preferred to a less heavy form. Those who take pride in a large and imposing- looking bedroom will find a hand- somely-carved bedstead of this de- scription add much to the appearance of the apartment, provided it be fur- nished with damask hangings of wool or silk, the valances trimmed with deep fringe of the same colour as, the damask, and relieved by silken- cords and tassels of a well-con- trasting colour. The foot curtains, too, may be useful in shutting out the light, if it be too intrusive, in- stead of using very dark blinds,, which always cast a gloom over everything. The entire absence of bed furniture from the tester will, effectually prevent that closeness in. the atmosphere which would occur if the tester were covered, and the omission will detract little if any, from the beauty of the bedstead. Crimson or green damask should have a bullion fringe of the same shade of tint as the material, but this Fig. 6. should be relieved by maize-coloured silken hangers, which are sold from ninepence each, and upwards. The binding also should be a mixture of the two colours. Such would cost from £\t. to £,10. Whether the furniture be white or coloured, it is well at all times to place and fasten a calico sheet, or an equivalent for it, entirely over the tester, if there be one, and down the back of the head of the bed, for the pur- pose of effectually excluding the dust ; also, for the same purpose, the bottom valance should be lined with dark glazed lining. Instead of iron rods, formerly in use for the curtains to run on, when attached to small brass rings, and which were concealed by the double valance, which is now dis- pensed with, large and handsome-looking rods or poles of the same wood as the bedstead, are now used. On these are slid wooden rings having brass eyelets, through which