125 CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. FURNITURE.—II. THE GENERAL FURNITURE OF THE HOUSE. From the kitchens we proceed upwards to the passage, by custom termed a hall, but which is either a large room at the entrance to the dining and other rooms, or, as is most frequently the case in modern houses, a passage more or less narrow. It is certainly bad taste to crowd into what is generally a limited space the furniture fitting only for a large hall; but how often are seen pictures crowded on the wall as at the entrance to a photo- grapher’s studio, and heavy chairs and tables that have perhaps seen service in a more appropriate place! In small houses the passages are generally so narrow as to admit only of one chair, a table, and a hat-rack—these are all inexpensive matters; but where means will permit, a hat and umbrella stand, with table, and looking-glass above it, and all arranged in one piece, makes the most compact, complete, and handsome article of furniture. Some of these stands have the framework made in painted iron, the paint being a mixture of colours resem- blkig a grey agate stone more than any other tint, and which really looks light and elegant. An oak—that is, wood painted and grained as oak—hat and umbrella stand can be purchased for 30s.; but oak furniture is out of place except in large halls. Mahogany is best for passages. A mahogany hat-rack, with brass hangers tipped with white china, will cost los. 6d. There are some long narrow tables with turned legs, but without a drawer for hat and clothes brushes, that can be purchased for a guinea. A plain mahogany hall-table, with drawers, will cost £^2. A mahogany hall-chair can be had for 15s. A folding iron chair, with cane seat and back, is an excellent substitute for the usual chair seen in passages, as it is cheaper, more comfortable to sit on, does not require so much cleaning, and may be pressed into instant service, either in a room or in a garden where a heavy hall-chair could not be carried about. Heaviness, as regards weight, seems to be a characteristic of much modern furniture, but has no apparent advantage—light- ness, with strength of joint, glue, and screw being generally attainable. A gas-light in a passage should spring from the wall opposite to and between the doors of the two sitting- rooms, the projecting gas-pipe having a movable joint. Thus one gas-jet will light a portion of the staircase, the passage in its whole length, and prevent a stranger from stumbling into either room when both are unlighted. Also, the gas can be turned back against the wall, as far as the ground-glass globe will permit, to allow of the removal of furniture or trunks. In large halls this arrange- ment would not be suitable. The floor-cloth should be the width of the passage, but if it be not, the floor on each side should be painted of the same colour as the ground of the floor-cloth—by no means of a different tint. The most useful colour for wear is a very light yellow-brown, having a dark brown pattern upon it. The cloth is primed with much the same tint, hence if the pattern wear off the defect is not so much seen. When there is much walking over it, a narrow strip of stair- carpet, which may be of bordered felt, inexpensive and efficient, should be laid down; it will save the oil-cloth very much; but this, however, must be taken up every day and swept underneath, otherwise the grit and dust will very soon abrade the surface of the cloth underneath it. Oil-cloth is very quickly destroyed by cleaning it with soap and soda, which, in taking off the dirt, remove the paint also. The use of warm water and a clean flannel, with a clean cloth afterwards to wipe it dry, once a week, will keep it fresh without injury. Once a month a scrub- bing-brush may be used, but no soap or soda. In houses where the passage is large enough to be termed a hall, a design on the oil-cloth in imitation of encaustic tiles looks very well, and in one of large dimen- sions real tiles should be employed. These are occasion- ally troublesome by getting loose, and a man-servant should know what cement or mortar to use in resetting them; but with tiles, or their imitation, the surroundings should harmonise. The staircase, when it faces the door, plays an important part in the look and degree of respectability which attach to a house; but there is one especial nuisance in modern town houses of moderate rental—say from forty to seventy pounds—that the stair- cases are usually exceedingly narrow and mean-looking— a defect which cannot be avoided. To grain the stairs and varnish them is at first an expensive process to the tenant, but it is the most lasting, inasmuch as they can be re-varnished every six months, by any one in the house, with but very little expense of material and of labour. An oil-man will always recom- mend the proper varnish, but oak varnish has been found to answer extremely well. In the matter of stair-carpets, as a rule the softest texture is the best. The hard Dutch carpets wear out directly. The real Venetian are the best, but are now rarely to be obtained. We cannot point out particularly the kind of carpet which should be bought, other than the best Brussels, if it can be had; this lasts a very long time with care—that is, care in sweeping it with a soft brush— not scrubbing it with the hard side of a baluster-brush, as most servants will if they are let alone. Much injury arises to all carpets from servants being allowed to run about with high-heeled and sometimes nailed boots. The only way to get over the difficulty is, when engaging them, to mention that only house-slippers can be allowed to be worn by them in the house. Stair-carpets should be in length a yard longer than is needful for each flight of stairs, so that when they are taken up for shaking (not beating), they may not be put down again in the same creases, and thus at a trifling expense the carpets will wear as long again as by the usual method of exact measurement. The length required is ascertained by allowing half a yard for each stair, and adding to this the length needed for the landings. Thick brown paper should be laid down under the carpet, other- wise the latter will soon be worn out. “ Corticene floor- covering” is a new and much-recommended material as a substitute for oil-cloths. It can be obtained (with borders of any width) at from 3s. 6d. to 4s. per yard ; an 18-inch border at 2s. Brass stair-rods of the ordinary kind are not expensive, and the stair-eyes are purchased by the dozen. Rooms with folding doors are the most convenient for a small house, as the doors may be closed at pleasure; but both rooms should be similarly furnished as far as the carpet, chairs, and curtains are concerned. Felt carpet is to be had in suitable tints; it is not ex- pensive, and is easily made, and, when good, will wear tolerably well There are many advantages in a felt carpet: not among the least is that when it is worn out in the centre, the sides which are good can be cut off, bound, and arranged for bedside carpets; and that which is very much worn serves instead of buying house-flannel for cleaning doorsteps, kitchen hearths, and other rough work. But if a carpet be cut through the worn part, and the two unworn sides be joined together, and the worn part be placed against the wall, a most undesirable impression of dust, and of the carpet never being swept underneath the chairs, will be conveyed. For this reason felt carpets are not convertible for the same rooms, and this is a disadvantage. Also, when taken up for shaking, the felt shrinks, and cannot without trouble be stretched to fit the same room again; and even if pieces have been turned down all round to allow of this shrinking, yet the bright colours of the unworn edges contrast unfavourably with the worn portion. Kidderminster carpets of a good quality are almost