107 CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. feeding-grounds, and showing a sagacity and fertility of invention in cases of emergency which is sometimes enough to stagger belief In mountainous countries, such as I Scotland and Wales, it is surprising to see the skill which I the sheep-dogs will evince in collecting the flock toge- ther. They appear to the full as eager in their task as the shepherd, and jarely, if ever, fail to collect all the stragglers, in spite of the formidable difficulties which very frequently lie in their way. The English rough sheep-dog is rarely capable of such perfect education as the collie, but will perform all the ordinary work required of him with steadiness and skill, if carefully trained. -In the training of Pointers the greatest patience and constant watchfulness are necessary, and the first lessons cannot begin too soon. We have already remarked on the strong instincts of this breed, and it is often so developed that puppies still suckling will point on seeing chickens, or finding bits of meat, or coming on the track of a mouse. Where the dog is too highly bred, in fact, the propensity sometimes is so exaggerated as to make him useless, causing the animal to point at valueless birds, or stale scent which the game has left for hours before. In order to prevent this, an occasional cross of the fox-hound ' is often used, and some of the very best dogs, such as have been sold for 200 guineas, are thus bred. This cross also much improves the endurance of the animal without injury to his powers of scent, but it must always be em- i ployed with judgment, and only the best of the offspring I should be preserved. j At a few weeks old, as soon, in fact, as they feed apart from the mother, the pups—not only of pointers, but all sporting dogs intended for breaking—should be called to III their meals by the firing of a gun, commencing for a fewdays whilst actually engaged in devouring their food. At first, ■ they will be more or less terrified, but will soon associate the sound with pleasurable enjoyrhent. It is best to leave ;j off when this object is attained. They must also be taught I from the first to come to heel at a call or whistle, being invariably, as soon as they evidently understatid the command, made to obey it by a sufficient but temperate chastisement for every neglect. When old enough to walk out into the fields, the pups 1' must be well practised in coming to heel, and when toler- ably perfect in it, taught to obey the word “ doton.” At first the command should be uttered with the whelp at I the feet, forcing it down at the same time by the pressure : of the hand; repetition of this will soon teach the pup 5 what is meant, and cause obedience, which may be occa- sionally rewarded by a bit of bread. When obedient at the feet, the pup should be ordered '•‘■down” when at some distance,, and if a steady old pointer can assist, will soon obey ; but, if it does not, the trainer must walk .quickly up to it and repeat the command in a stern voice. On the secohd disobedience a good scolding is added, and if a, third time the order be neglected, a smart cut with the whip accompanies the down,” and probably im- presses it on the youngster’s memory. This lesson is of very great consequence, and must be well attended to, teaching the dog by degrees to drop at the mere wave of the hand, as speaking much in the field would spoil the j sport. The animal must never be allowed to rise till or- I dered to “ hold up” or simply “ upp or directed by some I expression of the kind. The next step is to teach the pups to drop at the report of the piece by ordering them ‘■'■down” imme- diately after discharging it, by degrees omitting the com- mand, and meeting any consequent neglect, at first by rebuke, and the second time by slight chastisement. On no account must they be allowed to rise until the piece is reloaded, .checking .any:aftemptto do so by an imperious “ down.” This lesson also is of the utmost importance, thoroughly, teaching, a .-dpg to “ down charge ” being, of more influence than almost anything else in securing good sport ; but if the various stages have been attended to as described, there will be little of either difficulty or punishment about the process, and the whelps may be trained to perfect obedience in regard to all the foregoing sports by the time they have reached the age of four or five months. The young dogs may now be taken to the game, if possible, in company with an old one. Their incessant chasing of the small birds should not be checked, as it will make them eager, and the calm disdain of the old dog for such small deer will, as soon as they meet with real game, soon make them ashamed. The example of the old dog will also speedily teach them to point and hunt with the greatest eagerness ; and as soon as this is accom- plished, he should be kept at home and the pups taken out by themselves for the final stage of training, which con- sists in bringing their eager delight in hunting under perfect control. And here will be found the benefit of teaching them to “dow7i charge” or to drop at a wave of the hand, before they have been allowed to scent game. If this lesson be deferred till after, when all the dogs’ hunting instincts are in full exercise, the task of subduing them will be long and difficult; but, with the habits of obedience to signals and watching the loading of the gun thoroughly taught first, it will not take long after to turn out a thoroughly good pointer. The first lesson is to prevent the other dogs, when a comrade has found game, from rushing in upon the scent —to teach them, in fact, to back his point. The trainer must wait till the first dog has made a decided and tolerably steady point, and then, if another dog runs in, his name, and the word “ soho ! ” or other word of caution, must be shouted in a stem voice, at the same time waving the hand. Of course, if the preceding lessons have been attended to he will know that he ought to drop at the well-known signal; and if he does not, he mtest have both a good scolding and enough of the whip to impress the fault upon his memory pretty' sharply. We repeat here, once for all, that the great majority of dogs may be trained with very little correction, which should never be administered wan- tonly or unmercifully ; but still, when needed, to“give less than shall be well rejnembered will be useless, and there- fore is nothing but mere cruelty. Generally from two to half-a-dozen smart cuts with the whip will be found quite sufficient for the purpose. Again, if the game should run, and the dog follows, the others will naturally approach, and they may be allowed at first to follow on the. scent in order to increase their ardour. But if any pup attempts to go before the one that found, he must be at once checked, and punished if he disobeys ; for the first dog would feel it keenly if his scent were taken frpm him, and probably prove quite unruly for the rest of the day. Young dogs should be allowed to play with the first game they see killed. They enjoy this greatly, and with every successive bird they mouth, their ardour in the sport seems to increase, while they rarely injure it much if left to drop it themselves. On no account should it be torn or snatched from them, as it might teach them to teatr it, qnd such a habit makes a dog almost useless. Having thus got the pups to back each other’s point, there remains only to perfect them in observing the '■' dow7i charge” sight of the game. The best way is to fire when the birds rise, but at first not hitting them. Still the dogs will endeavour, in all pro- bability, to give chase, but probably an angry “ dow7i charge” will induce them to obedience ; if not, the whip must again be used. If any dog is peculiarly obstinate, it is best to fasten a light but strong line to his collar, and, just when he has gathered full speed, to fetch him up sharply, which will send him tumbling over in a way he will much dislike, and with a few sharp cuts of the whip