198 LIFE ASSURANCE. the bird, and the consequent sufficiency or otherwise of the portion tendered. The breast and back are then cut in half through the side bones, as in a fowl, the breast- bone removed, and the back served whole. It is seldom necessary to cut up a goose entirely the first day. In that case the carving can be finished in the kitchen, previous to making a hash of the bird. Many people who are not particular about the look of the bird, always make a prac- tice of having it cut up before coming to table. Sucking Pig.—A sucking pig is a very common dish in the country. Unless the family is very small, it is usual to serve two, which are placed on one dish, the heads pre- viously cut off and laid at the ends, as is shown in Fig. 23. Turn the pig upright with the fork, and hold it so. To take off the leg, set the knife in upright at A, Fig. 22, and divide the joint, and then cut it off. Make a slanting slice under the shoulder, as shown at B, and cut boldly through the joint when you meet it. Cut right through the back and ribs in slanting strokes at C C c. The ear and the jaw are considered delicacies. The ears are sent to table already cut off, and will be observed garnishing the dish in Fig. 23. A Saddle of Mutton.—A saddle of mutton is a dish not unfrequently set on table where there is a large family, or on festive occasions, for it is a particularly handsome joint. It is simply two entire loins undivided, and is considered by many people to be the choicest part of the meat. A saddle of mutton is sent to table in two different ways— either with the tail dressed whole, or with it split in half, each half curled diverse ways over one of the kidneys, and fastened in that position by means of a very small skewer. This fashion our illustration. Fig. 21, represents. Carve thin slices from end to end of the centre of the saddle, beginning a little distance from the tail, as shown in the dotted lines from A to B. Cut quite down to the bone. Make three or four slices, each with a single movement of the hand, drawing the knife quietly along the joint, feeling the bone with the point. In making the last slice, slope the knife slightly to the right side, and cut right through all the previous slices, completely detaching them. The slanting slices from c to D, and the cross ones from E to F, may then be taken, and furnish a palatable mixture of fat and lean. Each guest should be consulted as to whether he or she desires the kidney, and when the answer is obtained in the affirmative, a slice of the kidney is to be served with the meat. Saddle of mutton is not cut so thin as beef, but moderately thick. Fore Quarter ofLamb.—'Y'Fx^ joint is open to much the same remarks as a saddle of mutton, being esteemed fit for a guest dish, and also suitable for a numerous party. But it requires quite different carving. It is simply a breast and shoulder in one. When placed on table the carver’s first duty is to remove the shoulder, which is not at all difficnlt. The fork is inserted at A, Fig. 24 ; the dish is so placed that F is next you. I points directly to the other side of the table, J is on your right hand, and K on your left. Then, with your fork at A, take the knife, hold it at B, and boldly slice away right round to C, raising the shoulder, as you cut it from the breast, and as it severs in the process, with the fork. Go on cutting from c to D, and D to E. You keep your knife with the point as far down as shown in the illustration, and take a circular cut, as shown by the dotted line, and by this means the shoulder will be quite cut off when you have completed the circle, or at best a slight cut will quite sever it. The moment this is done take a lemon or Seville orange, cut in half and sprinkled with salt and pepper, and placed in a plate ready, and squeeze it under the shoulder, which you support still by the fork, an inch or so above the breast, sloping and touching it on the lower side ; put in a slice of butter, and let the shoulder rest on the breast, removing the fork. Allow a couple of minutes to melt the butter. Meanwhile a fresh hot dish is brought. Transfer the shoulder to this, and send it to the other end of the table, or to some other person to be served as a separate joint. The breast is now carved as a breast, and the shoulder as a shoulder, in the ordinary way. A Leg of Pork.—Pork is a favourite dish with very many, and a leg of pork frequently appears on the family board, though it is not generally esteemed a dish for a formal occasion. It must be placed on the table with the back upwards, and the crackling taken off in a large coat before any attempt is made to cut the meat. Unless the joint is sufficiently cooked, it will not be easy to displace the hard and savoury skin. Cut the joint in rather thick slices across the back at the dotted lines marked A to B in Fig. 26. Slices of the crackling—which, if properly scored before cooking, are easily made by placing the point of the knife in the cuts, and snapping it asunder—should be tendered with each serving of meat, if desired. Tongue.—Tongue should be helped in very thin, even slices. It is first cut through downwards, a little way from the tip, where a good thickness is attained, at the line marked from A to B, Fig. 25. With each serving cut a slice from the root, D to E, and a little of the fat and kernels which will be found underneath, between E and F. The tip, c, is by many considered a delicacy. Bacon, when it is a large piece, is generally cut the narrow way, very thin indeed, straight down from the top to the dish, like the cut in the tongue, but beginning from the very end of the bacon, not serving the first slice, but laying that aside on the dish. Small pieces of bacon are usually cut lengthways. LIFE ASSURANCE.—IV. In continuation of the suggestions in our last article on this subject, as to the means to be adopted by an intend- ing applicant to a life assurance company, to ascertain the position of the office, we ought perhaps to point out the danger of trusting to any empirical tests of soundness, such, for instance, that the accumulated fund of a life assurance society should be at least eight times the amount of the annual premiums, or one-fourth of the sum assured. If such a requirement were to be made an inflexible condition, how, we would ask, could any com- pany commence business at all ? The fact is, the widely varying circumstances which tend to modify the conditions of the numerous totally differently constituted companies, render it impossible to lay down any general test of solvency of this kind, and all attempts at generalising upon results—which, as actuaries well know, can only be deduced by laborious computa- tions, based upon well defined mathematical processes, to which there is no royal road—are, as a rule, mischievous, as tending very much to mislead the public, though at the same time, it is at once the duty and the interest of every •assurance office to give every possible facility to persons anxious to insure, for ascertaining the actual position of their affairs, and the system on which their business is conducted. We have hitherto referred only to life assurance as a means of family provision; the system is, however, equally adapted to securing debts, by assurances effected by credi- tors on the lives of their debtors, as well as by partners in mercantile firms, who, by taking out policies on the lives of each other, may prevent the frequently inconvenient necessity of withdrawing capital from the firm, in the event of the death of one or other of its members. It is usual in some parts of tffie country, particularly in Devon and Cornwall, for leases of property to be granted depending on the duration of one or more lives, subject to certain fines for the substitution of a new life as an old one fails. These fines may be advantageously provided for by