124 THE TOILETTE. N.B.—These recipes are not to be used to broken chilblains. For broken chilblains the following application is per- haps the best. It should be applied on strips of lint Calamine cerate ... ... i ounce. Carbonate of lead i drachm. Camphor ... 5 grains. IVaris.—These occur mostly about the hands, also the wrists, the forehead, and the scalp, particularly in the young and aged. They may be congenital, solitary, or in the form of a regular crop of extensive nature. In the latter case a long course of arsenic is needed for their removal. When they are few, they may be got rid of readily by caustics. Mason Good, an eminent writer, says that in Sweden they are destroyed by the wart- eating grasshopper—the Gryllus verrucivoncs—with green wings, spotted brown; the common people catching it for this purpose : and it is reported to bite off the wart, and discharge into the root which is left behind a corrosive liquid. In some parts of our own country the juice of the Chelidonium majus is used with more or less success; but our readers had better trust to none of such things, but use caustic potash,'or acid nitrate of mercury—^both, how- ever, powerful things, to be used with caution. The wart should be soaked in warm water, then touched each day at its centre with a solution of caustic potash and water in equal parts until it becomes sore. The solution is to be applied with a piece of wood. After a few applications the wart will shrivel and come away. When the acid nitrate of mercury is used, the same system of application is to be followed, but the acid should be carefully rubbed on to the wart until it smarts; this must be repeated several times, and care must be taken that the acid does not trickle over the skin so as to ulcerate it. Corns.—These always arise from pressure. They are of two kinds, soft and hard. The former occur between the toes, from the pressure of the joints of the smaller toes against the skin opposite. Corns are not limited to the feet, but are seen on the hands of workmen who use tools that press much on the palm of the hand. The effect of pressure is to stimulate the skin, then to cause an increased flow of blood to the part whose activity is excited, so that the cells of the cuticle are more rapidly produced than natural, and become pressed together into what we know as corns. In the soft com there is a collec- tion of fluid under the cuticle, and the corn is constantly bathed in perspiration ; so that we have a more or less circular white softish elevation, exuding a moisture. Now the cure of corns is really an easy matter. The first thing is to have an easy soft boot, with a good broad square toe, so that the toes of the feet are in no degree pressed together. Small-toed boots and corns go together. Then corns must be soaked in warm water, scraped or shaved down, touched with a little acetic acid now and again, whilst a corn-plaister should be worn—we mean a circular one with the hole in the centre, so as to take off the pressure from the centre of the corn. The sufferer should never wear a boot which is in the least worn away at the heel. The extraction of a corn is only a temporary palliative. It does not remove the cause. In the case of a soft corn we must take care to be very cleanly, to remove as much of the white loose cuticle as we can, to keep the toes betwixt which it is, separate by a bit of cotton wool; then we may use a little “ glyceral tannin,” which can be got at the chemist’s, painting it in each night for a week or so, and when it has become less tender and moist we may apply caustic gently. This will generally, if we keep pressure off it, remove the corn. Moles and Motherd Marks.—These may usually be removed by caustics, or by ligaturing, and it is best that they be destroyed at the earliest possible time, because they frequently increase with some rapidity, and fill with blood to an extent which makes their removal the more difficult. It is of no use giving further details. In all cases they must be left to professional treatment. Discolorations of the Skin. — These are of various kinds. We shall only speak of the more common. First we have freckles, or the little brown specks developed about the face and hands in the summer-time by the action of the sun upon the skin in hot weather. There is a second form, which occurs on the covered parts of those who are of a bilious temperament. This latter form requires careful medical treatment. The former may be more or less removed by the use of local remedies No. I. Elder-flower ointment ... ... i ounce. Sulphate of zinc, finely powdered ... 25 grains. To be applied with the finger night and morning. No. 2. Sal-ammoniac 60 grains. Distilled water ... ... ... i pint. Lavender water ... ... ... i ounce. Bichloride of mercury 2 grains. To be used with a sponge every night and morning. No 3 is an elegant form :— Red rose-leaves ... ... ... Jounce. Fresh lemon-juice ... ... ... J pint. Rum i pint. Digest these for a day, and squeeze away the fluid, to be used by means of a piece of sponge, night and morning. No. 4- Carbonate of potash ... ... ... 5 grains. Citrine ointment ... ... ... i drachm. Otto of roses ... ... ... ... f drop. Simple cerate... ... ... ... i ounce. To be smeared on every night. It not unfrequently happens that persons are attacked with a discoloration about the chest, especially where flannel is worn. The parts become itchy—slightly red, perhaps—and then little light pale straw-coloured spots appear on the front of the chest ; they itch, and a few bran-like scales can be scratched from off the patches, which gradually join, and form a pale, fawn-coloured eruption. This is due to the presence of a vegetable parasite, and is called Chloasma. It is readily cured by first washing the skin with soap and water, in order to get away the natural fatty matter, and then applying freely what are called parasiticides, viz., agents that de- stroy vegetable life. The recij>e No. 2, recommended above for discolorations, may be given a trial This should be applied night and morning after the use of soap, and be continued for three weeks or so. If this do not radi- cally cure the affection, medical advice must be sought, since stronger remedies of an active kind will be needed, and most likely internal medicines. Chapped Hands and Lips.—These are well known, and equally simple to cure. Those persons whose hands are constantly in the wet in cold weather, get chapped hands because they make the skin thereby moist and soft, and remove the natural fatty secretion, which is protective against cold. It is said that those who work amongst tallow and oil never get chaps of any kind ; and this simple fact is in keeping with the proper mode of curing chapped hands, which is to keep the hands as dry as possible, and to apply a layer of grease night and morn- ing. Cold cream, or a little weak zinc or camphor oint- ment, will do. Where the hands are livid and cold, it will be well to use the camphor-balls sold in the shops. Occasionally an ugly and obstinate crack occurs. This may be cured by applying a little friar’s balsam once or twice, or if it be in the middle of the lip, by drawing the two sides together and keeping thern^in close apposition, when the crack heals. The muscles about the mouth in constant action tend to stretch open the crack, and to prevent it healing.