CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. 109 indispensable, for an unnecessary lash, or even rebuke, ought never to be given. One object only should be sought at a time, or the dog will get confused ; neither should he be trained too long at one period, lest he become tired and disgusted. When he behaves pro- perly, he should be patted and encouraged—in fact, made a fi'iend of throughout, and only corrected when really necessary. Having trained your dog to your own satisfaction, and got him to understand and obey your signals, you will do well never to lend him on any consideration, except to a person both trustworthy and not very unlike yourself in conduct and habits when in the field. To lend a good dog to a bad sportsman, is infallibly to spoil him for at least several days. If you have shot in company, and your friend and the dog mutually understand and respect each other, no harm can ensue; the great point un- doubtedly is that the dog must be thoroughly familiar with the sportsman who uses him, and in the hands of a bad sportsman a good dog is very soon spoilt. In training Greyhozmds for coursing, the great point is to exercise their power by slow degrees, so as to de- velop without overtasking them. The exercise should, therefore, commence with a little, gradually increasing as the young dog’s strength grows. The forenoon is always best, if the weather is fine. Daily rubbing or scrubbing, with a tolerably hard brush, is very beneficial, giving firmness to the muscles, and keeping the skin in good order. Sometimes the limbs are fired to increase their power, but we question if any advantage is gained by this cruel operation. The feeding is very important; it usually consists of oatmeal and flesh ; but the training of all hounds is now so reduced to method, and compre- hends so many details, that it is utterly impossible to enter upon it here. In training dogs for performance, no method can be laid down ; but kindness, firmness, and indomitable patience will always succeed. No other rules can be needed, for no boy ever yet failed in training his dog to do anything he desired. We do not think severity is ever needed in this branch of training, but we never look at the poor wretch who performs in some penny show at a fair, without commiserating him for the brutality he has probably had to suffer. COURT MANUAL.—I.- INTRODUCTION. In every nation under heaven distinctions of rank are recognised. The most rude and barbarous, equally with the most refined and civilised, have adopted social gradations under every variety of government. Such an arrangement appears to have been found necessaiy not only to the well-being, but to the very existence of society. Whatever the explanation, some have been clothed with authority over others, have had the pre-eminence, and been regarded with deference. Such authority and pre-eminence may be regarded as the necessary consequence of the relations in which people stand to each other. That the husband should be the head of a family, his wife his nearest equal, and the children subordinate, seems to be natural, and not an arbitrary decision. The same is true of the relation of master and servant. The principle is adopted in larger communities, and it is found necessary to place one member at the head, whether he be called a chief or a president, a king or an emperor. But inasmuch as one man is not equal to the task of personally regulating state affairs, others are appointed in various degrees of subordination to him, and all having therefore a certain precedence or rank above the mass. The rank thus acquired is in som^e cases temporary and official, but it is often made hereditary, and sometimes rank and title are conferred for important services to the State. In this country, and in many others, probably the majority of those who claim superior rank do so on account of their connections with families which have been ennobled. Some time or other it has come to pass that every member of the community is regarded as belonging to a particular class, and therefore as occupying a definite position in the social scale. This position is not, however, always fixed and irrevocable in the case of individuals, of whom some may ascend and others may descend, where descent is possible. It is not the object of these chapters to discuss the topics which have been indicated, nor even to blame or praise all the arrangements which they involve. The object is rather, in a brief and intelligible manner, to enumerate and describe the various ranks and offices which come within our scheme, and to exhibit the order of precedence which is recognised by society and autho- rity. It need scarcely be added that our attention will be limited to our own nation, as most in accordance with the practical character of this work. Moreover, as royalty, in the person of the Sovereign is, in fact, the head and source of all other ranks and high offices, we shall commence with that, and proceed afterwards to other branches of the subject. THE SOVEREIGN. In this country the sovereign head of the State may be either a king or a queen, and becomes such by inheritance. The Sovereign, on his or her accession to the throne, is proclaimed, and enters forthwith upon the honours, duties, and emoluments .of the Crown. The coronation follows with many solemnities and for- malities, amid all the splendour which such an occasion justifies. The new monarch takes the following, or coronation, oath :—“ To govern the people of this United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, and the do- minions thereto belonging, according to the statutes in Parliament agreed on, and the respective laws and customs of the same; to his power to cause law and justice in mercy to be executed in all his judgments ; to the utmost of his power to maintain the laws of God, the true profession of the Gospel, and the Protestant reformed religion established by law ; to maintain and preserve inviolably the settlement of the United Church of Eng- land and Ireland, and the doctrine, worship, discipline, and government thereof, as by law established within England and Ireland, and the territories thereto belong- ing ; and to preserve unto the bishops and clergy of England and Ireland, and to the united Church com- mitted to their charge, all such rights and privileges as by law do or shall appertain to them or any of them.” This oath was taken by her present Majesty, but the last two clauses will have to be modified on any similar occasion hereafter, in consequence of the disestablishment of the Irish Church. As the duties of the Sovereign are so great and con- stant, the throne is never supposed to be vacant, and “ the law ascribes to that person a never-ceasing exist- ence,” so that when a king dies the office passes at once to the successor. Mr. Thoms, in his “ Book of the Court,” to which we once for all acknowledge our obligations, says : “ As the representative of the State, the Sovereign has the supreme exclusive management of transactions between the United Kingdom and all foreign powers.” This includes the appointment and reception of ambassadors, making treaties, declaring war and peace, and whatever pertains to military matters. As the “fountain of justice,” the Sovereign is sworn to administer according to law, though he does this by means of judges and the Lord Chancellor. The Sovereign is supreme in regard to trade and commerce, and the current coin of the realm,