CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE, 99 HOUSE-HUNTING. ) The word “home” has in our language a force and ' a beauty which it scarcely has in any other, and which ; makes it pleasant to the ears of every Englishman. The house is not the whole of home, but, inasmuch as a good and comfortable and well-ordered house contributes greatly to the happiness of home, we propose to say some- thing upon that subject. At one time or another it is the ; lot of most of us to have to seek a house as our place of residence, and also to deal with inconveniences in our actual dwellings. With regard to the first point, no absolute rules can be laid down which shall be applicable in all cases, although some hints will be found of general ' utility. We cannot always determine where we will live, as that is often very much controlled by circumstances. Some have to select their dwellings in large towns and cities, where the conditions of salubrity may be less favourable than is desirable. But even then it is not seldom possible to make a selection, and when it is pos- sible, every precaution ought to be taken to secure as airy and healthy a situation as may be. Supposing we have i: so much liberty, we should endeavour to avoid close and i narrow streets and densely-populated districts; we should I seek for a residence which does not lie low, or on soil I which is at all swampy and ill-drained, and we should try ' to get a house built upon gravel, sand, chalk, or rock. !j We must also aim at having a good share of sunshind, I and light, and air. Even if we can choose our home in ! the suburbs, we shall be wise to look out for an open situation, and neither too closely hemmed in by trees, nor standing upon a bad soil. A very large number of speculative builders will remove from the ground they build upon every particle of gravel, or other useful j subsoil, in the neighbourhood of London, and will have the excavations filled in with all kinds of refuse and ; rubbish. It is needless to say that one’s house might as well stand in a marsh as upon such materials, for un- i| wholesome exhalations will arise, and various forms of disease be induced in consequence. This is not all : the houses erected upon such ground are liable to be damp, I and apt to settle down, causing cracks in the walls and I partitions, bulging out in some places, and shrinking in others ; hence windows and doors get out of order, and do ; not shut and open properly, and expose the inhabitants to draughts. In the case of newly-built houses it is usually possible to find out whether they have been honestly erected from the foundation to the top. If old and worthless materials have been largely used in the construction, and if the I work has been executed in a slight and slovenly manner, I it will soon become apparent. ' All these are matters to be inquired into, even if we are about to take a house favourably located ; and of course it is suicidal not to make inquiry if we are going to pur- chase a houle. But even these points are not all, because the drainage, lighting, ventilating, and internal arrange- ments have to be looked to. An ill-drained house is a ■nuisance, and yet, because proper drainage is apt to be expensive, builders are often tempted to sin in this matter. As for the lighting by means of windows, the windows should neither be too few nor too small, nor should they be badly placed. The ventilating is a matter which is not always so readily determined, though in general there will I be cause of complaint if the rooms are small and the ' ceilings low, and if the halls and passages are narrow and confined. For the internal arrangements there will need to be a careful inspection. It should be seen that every door and window opens and closes properly, and has ij appropriate fastenings; that cupboards, shelves, and closets are fixed in suitable positions; that ranges and fire-grates are adapted to the places they occupy; that the BattCi^ea Pi^- floors are sound and level, and not full of great cracks, and with wide spaces between them and the skirting boards round the rooms. If gas is laid on, the meter ought to be sufficient for the number of lights, and the pipes should not be too small, nor limited to too few rooms. If there are Venetian blinds, they must be inspected and tested, and care taken that they are in proper condition and order. Water, of course, will be laid on, and it must be looked to. Inquire if the pipe is of sufficient bore ; whether the taps are in good state, sound and strong ; whether the water is on the main, or only let in at certain hours of the day; whether the cistern—of which there must be one in any case—is out of doors or indoors ; and of what material and capacity it is. If the cistern is out of doors you will be without water when severe frost sets in, and you will perhaps be annoyed by the bursting of the leaden pipes when the thaw comes. There is no need really to have the cistern out of doors, and it is a nuisance when it is so. Should it not be properly covered over, the water will be contaminated with what are termed “ blacks,” in and near large towns and cities. Then, as for the material, a leaden tank or cistern is not wholesome, but mischievous, and therefore one of slate, or some such material, is in all respects preferable. The sink-stone in the back kitchen should be large enough for your requirements, and should be properly provided with a waste-pipe to carry off the water. Such things as copper or boiler, oven and boiler, and well-constructed water-closets, in proper positions, will also all have to be looked after. Finally, a coal-cellar of adequate capacity, and into which coals can be readily conveyed from the street, without filling the house with dust, begriming everything, and causing endless confusion, is to be regarded as a necessary. There will be less to look after out of doors, but some- thing demands attention even there. If there is no foot- pavement with good kerbing, there will be annoyance in wet weather, and the steps wiU get very dirty. A lofty and a narrow flight of steps is undesirable on many ac- counts. If steps are numerous, they are inconvenient to ascend in bad weather, and require much extra cleaning, while, if they are narrow, they look mean, and do not sup- ply good accommodation. In front of some houses there is an area, with an entrance to the basement under the ground-floor. Although this construction has some advan- tages, it is open to serious objections. Should the door be left open, a draught like a hurricane will sometimes sweep through the whole house. These areas offer a temptation to dishonest persons, who by their means may get access to an imwatched kitchen or breakfast-room, and carry away a plate-basket or other valuables. The messengers of tradesmen, the milkman, the butcher, the hearth-stone boy, and others, may, and do, at these area entrances, waste time in idle gossip. Anyhow, they furnish fre- quently too ready exit or admission to such as one would rather keep out or in, as the case may be. The house- hunter will be wise to look at this, and, if he takes such a house, to decide whether he will keep that entrance regularly locked or unlocked. Where houses are in ter- races, this construction may be the only one that allow.' of a second entrance. In some terraces, the back doors open into a lane at the rear of the gardens iDehind, in which case no prudent housekeeper will forget the lock. Semi- detached houses most commonly have a side door leading round to the back, and it is a good arrangement, probably the best, for town dwellings. Such a door should, how- ever, have good fastenings, like all others, because it will not Ire wise to leave it always open. A small garden in front of the house looks well, unless in close neighbourhoods where nothing flourishes, or in a north aspect. Under favourable circumstances, such a little garden is a desirable adjunct, provided it is well kept. London dwellings of moderate size seldom have gardens