CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. loi; Fig. : THE AQUARIUM.—IV. MARINE AQUARIUM. In a former number instructions were given for the management of the fresh-water aquarium. These, as far as regards the admission of light and regulation of temperature, apply equally to salt-water aquaria; but in other respects, the marine col- lection requires greater atten- tion to detail, and therefore must be treated independently. In localities near the coast there is, of course, little diffi- culty in obtaining the objects necessary to furnish an aqua- rium ; but at a distance from the sea it is not always easy to get even a supply of water, and therefore it becomes a matter of considerable importance, at starting, to know how to proceed in the manner least likely to result in disappointment. The first step to be taken is to choose the vessel. The best form is the ob- long square tank, with the back sloping inwards to- wards the bottom, all except the glass front being made of slate. But as this is not easily pro- curable, the confec- tioner’s cover in- verted, and fixed on a stand, will answer the purpose. As it is advisable to pre- sent as large a sur- face of water as possible to the ac- tion of the air, the vessel chosen should not be deep, but the greater the circum- ference the better. It should be pro- vided with a glass cover having a circular hole cut in the centre. This will check evaporation, keep out the dust, prevent anything getting out, and yet admit suf- ficient air. The water is the next matter to be considered. Some writers have recommended the use of artificial sea-water, prepared by dissolving a mixture of salts in rain water; but the risk of failure is too great to make the experiment worthy of trial. There are certain ingredients and living organisms in natural sea-water that would be absent from the imitation, and upon the presence of these success may possibly depend.* The easiest method of procuring real sea-water, is to take advan- * An analysis of loo parts of the water of the Channel gives the following result;— rt C C E'-o « 3 ROCK POOL WITH SEAWEED AND ANEMONES. [i, 2, 3, Actinia mese7nbryanthenium in different stages of expansion.] Water Chloride of sodium (salt) Afagnesium Sulphate of magnesium Sulphate of calcium Potassium Carbonate of lime Bromide of magnesium... Kesiduum ... 96-470 ... 2*700 ... 0-360 ... 0*230 ... 0*140 ... 0*070 ... 0*003 ... 0*002 ... 0*025 100*000 tage of a visit to a watering-place, and make an agree- ment with a fisherman to fill a small cask or large jar, and transmit it to you by rail. In giving him instructions, tell him to procure the water not less than a mile from the shore, in order to avoid the importation of impurities. By this means the writer has succeeded in obtaining water fromWeymouth,Broad- stairs, and Harwich, the ves- sel used being a nine-gallon cask, and the total expense not exceeding sixpence per gallon. It is scarcely neces- sary to remark that the vessel should be new, or, if a stone jar, carefully cleaned. Fig. 2. There are a very large quantity of beautiful objects that may be kept in a marine aquarium ; but as the most attractive are not easily procured, and require some care in their manage- ment, the beginner should first try his “ prentice hand ” upon such as can be most readily obtained ; these for- tunately are the least likely to perish from neglect. Presuming that a vessel has been pro- vided before leaving, home, and that a few gallons of water (twice the quantity actually required for the aquarium) can be forwarded or taken back as luggage, the visitor to the sea- side may easily ob- tain all that he re- quires by taking a ramble over the rocks at low tide. The most speedy method of gathering the objects is as fol- lows : Take a tin can, as shown in Fig. I, a net with a long handle. Fig. 2, and a hammer, and go to the beach about half an hour before low water. Choose the spot where the rocks stretch out farthest from the shore, and make your way over them to the water’s edge. To do this some care is required, for the wrack that covers the rocks is exceedingly slippery, and a false step may launch you into a pool. As salt water is not beneficial to shoe-leather, those who are not provided with sand-slippers should rub a little tallow over their boots, especially in the crevice above the sole, before starting out. First dip your can half full of water, and then wriggle the net quickly round the edges of the rock pools within reach. There are several kinds of small fish that may thus be caught, but as they do not live long in con- finement, you need not feel greatly disappointed if you fail. You will have no difficulty, however, in capturing a few shrimps or prawns, although it requires a practised eye to see them. When in the water, they are almost transparent, and thus easily elude detection, and when caught in a net they are scarcely observable, unless they force themselves into notice by jumping about. You will have discovered that the rocks on which you stand are intersected by fissures, which are concealed by the sea-weed. Take the handle of your net and throw .ESOP PRAWN.