43 CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE, will require to follow in. If this were not done, the tool would become clogged and choked with the sawdust. In metal saws, the teeth being too fine and thick to admit of being bent, or “ set,” as it is termed, the back of the blade is made much thinner than the cutting edge. T IT J IL Fig. 21. Fig. 21 shows a “ saw-set,” the nicks of which are of different sizes, to suit the various thicknesses of the blades. As none of our readers are likely to have occasion to use the pit-saw, it is of no use to bring it before them. The next largest variety is the cross-cut saw. Fig. 22, /vw Fig. 22. which is used for felling and cutting trees or timber in a direction across its grain. It is worked by two men, one at each end, and pushed backwards and forwards with equal force, cutting both ways ; and for this reason the front and back angles of the teeth are equal, or about sixty degrees. The teeth are kept so upright to prevent too great a degree of penetration. The rip-saw. Fig. 23, is the largest single-handled saw —about 2 ft. 6 in. or 3 ft. long—and is used for sawing or ripping along planks in the direction of the grain. The teeth are, therefore, inclined forward, and work very fast, and number about three and a half teeth to the inch. The half-rip saw is of the same shape and form of teeth as the rip, but altogether smaller. The panel-saw is much narrower at the bottom end than the half-rip. Its width there is about two inches, and it is much finer in the teeth, which generally number about six or seven to the inch. The last three may be considered to represent the most usual form of plain hand-saws. In use they are grasped by the right hand on the handle—the work to be sawn being laid on the sawing-stool, and held by the left hand or either knee. After just notching the end of the line to be cut, the strokes are lengthened gradually, and swept downwards with considerable vigour and force, and brought up with the teeth kept well down in the cut, the blade being used from top to bottom. A little grease smeared on the blade occasionally makes the saw go easier. The tenon-saw. Fig. 24, consists of a thin blade, fastened at the top edge in a metal rim or back, which keeps it firmly stretched out. It is, nevertheless, rather a delicate instrument, and requires careful usage, or the blade will be crumpled or buckled—a fault very difficult to remedy. If the buckle is only slight, a smart blow with a hammer on the middle of the top of the back will often set it right; but failing this, the blade must be taken out and re-fitted by a smith, as it is entirely unfit for its work while in that condition. The teeth are fine —ten to the inch—and the pitch is not very forward, the back angle being about thirty degrees with the cut, and the forward angle ninety degrees. Dovetail-saws exactly resemble tenon-saws, but are smaller and much thinner in the blade and finer in the teeth. The hint about careful usage should be doubly observed with them. After making the line intended to be sawn, these two saws are used horizontally, and across the grain of the wood, and are grasped by the right hand, being moved with short, quick, parallel strokes. The work should be fixed higher than in rip sawing ; the bench is a con- venient height. We now come to saws intended to cut in curves or 25, circles—the most ordinary form being the keyhole-saw. Fig. 25. This is a long, thin, tapering blade. A, much thicker on the teeth edge than at the back, to allow of the curve to be made. In order that the extreme end of the thin part may be used for small circles without danger of crippling or breaking, the blade is made to slide into a long hole right through the handle, and is fixed at any required place by the screws, C. In using, a hole is first bored with a gimlet, touching the required path of the saw, the thin end of which is then introduced and pushed backwards and forwards rapidly, but not too forcibly, the straight or curved path being regulated by the twist of the hand. GARDENING.—II. THE WINDOW GARDEN. Although it is not in every man’s power to have a garden, in the ordinary sense of the word, it is not difficult to improvise a greenhouse, or to cultivate flowers in the very heart of a town. Window-gardening is within reach of all who have a roof to cover them, and the nearer the sky the operations are carried on the better chance have the flowers of thriving. A few boxes made of rough boards nailed together, or, indeed, anything that will hold earth and permit drainage, will serve as the ground-work of a window garden ; and even in a house where there are only two or three rooms, flowers may be cultivated successfully. It is erroneous to imagine that it is unhealthy to have plants in living-rooms. There are, of course, exceptional cases, where the perfume of some particular flower pro- duces sickness or headache, but this only occurs with delicate persons ; from sleeping-rooms, however, growing plants ought to be excluded. As a rule, it is a good plan to keep flowers irya living-room during the day, as they absorb the noxioits gases in the atmosphere. These they exhale by night; and as they thus poison the air of the room, it is desirable, as far as possible, then to remove them.