8 DOMESTIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY, It is not to be wondered at, then, that they should have a distrust of domestic medicine, and have a strong tendency to advise people that are not well, not to take this medicine or the other, but “ to send for the doctor.” And yet a little reflection will show that there must be more or less of domestic medicine. People will try their hands at curing themselves or their children ; and for two or three y reasons such experiments are not to be altogether dis- couraged. In the first place, there are some ailments that are really very trifling and require for their treatment only a little care and common sense. They are not grave enough to need medical science or to be materially helped by it. It seems scarcely respectful to the profession to call it in to cure a common cold, or the stomach-ache which clearly comes of having eaten forbidden fruit. Then there is another good reason for trying to help people to understand the rudiments of medicine for domestic purposes. They are often so situated as to be out of the reach of immediate assistance. A sudden faint At the same time, opportunity will be taken to point o\jt those circumstances that indicate the necessity for im- mediate recourse to a medical man, and the rules laid down must be regarded as only preliminary to his arrival, and on no account to be insisted on should he, from the special nature of the case, see fit to carry out some different mode of treatment. Great harm may be done to a patient by injudicious meddling on the part of a well- meaning, but only partially-informed friend, who, finding the treatment being pursued under medical advice different from that here laid down, should venture to express dis- approval, and shake the confidence of the patient or his friends in their medical adviser. When a patient’s ease has once been undertaken by a medical man, it is only just, and for his own interest, that the surgeon should be treated honestly, his directions fairly carried out, and his prescriptions attended to. If a patient or his friends are dissatisfied with their medical attendant, it is always open to them to have further medical advice. may happen, or a vein or artery may be bleeding fast, and even a near doctor may be too far off; or the doctor may live at a great distance; and a little wise instruction would save hours of pain to the patient and anxiety to his friends. Many of the mistakes of domestic medicine would be avoided if it could be restricted to simple cases. But here the difficulty arises of distinguishing between cases that are simple, and cases that are serious. In an early number, we shall try to enumerate a few symptoms which show disease to be important, and therefore beyond the proper province of domestic treatment. The chief in- formation that we shall pretend to give concerning such serious diseases, will be such as will enable our readers to form some intelligent notions of their nature, their course, and their symptoms ; and, what is perhaps of most im- portance, to understand the onset of them, and the kind of symptoms which indicate a severe attack. The object of the articles on Domestic Surgery will be, not the perfectly futile and mischievous one of attempting to make every one his own surgeon, but only to furnish our readers with such simple rules for the treatment of the slight accidents and emergencies of every day life as are commonly treated without resorting to medical advice. There are certain affections which are commonly de- nominated “ surgical,” because they require some manual attention on the part of the attendant. These will be briefly discussed, in order to point out how far they may with safety be treated domestically, and v/hen it will be desirable, and even essential, to have professional advice. Opportunity will be taken, in connection with these subjects, to describe the mode of preparation of poultices and other applications of household surgery, which, though they are in fact matters of every day requirement, are frequently mismanaged. It may be here remarked how essential for relief in these surgical affections it is that there should be no concealment of symptoms from one’s medical adviser, on account of scruples, no doubt honourable, but misplaced, because of the so-called “ delicacy ” of some of the sub- jects involved. Valuable lives (as for instance, that of Caroline, queen of George II.) have been lost from the concealment of the existence of a rupture ; and many persons live a life of discomfort for years, and even allow their health to be undermined, through the concealment of some affection of the lower bowel which could be readily remedied by medical advice.