CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. 329 the production of beer consists in crushing the malt and steeping it in water, either by itself or mixed with sugar, so as to form the “ wort.” When a large proportion of the starch has been converted into sugar the wort is boiled. If the process of fermentation, to be presently mentioned, be slowly conducted, and sufficient raw grain have been added to the wort, the whole of the gluten is converted into diastase, and the beer will keep better, and not develop the aldehyd—a kind of alcohol—upon which much of the intoxicating effects of English beer is supposed to depend. The wort, after having been boiled with hops, partly to give it a flavour and partly to pre- cipitate the unchanged gluten, is run off into shallow vessels and rapidly cooled down to about 60° F., and then transferred to the fermenting vat; yeast is added, and it is slowly fermented for six or eight days, the fermentation being stopped before all the fermentable matters are converted into alcohol. Beer usually contains from three to ten per cent, of alcohol, so that in a pint of stout or strong ale there would be nearly as much alcohol as in an equal quantity of ordinary claret, or more than one-third of a pint of port or sherry, so that it is not to be wondered at that a pint of stout or strong ale should make a person unaccustomed to its use feel more or less intoxicated. Wine is the fermented juice of any fruit, but the name is chiefly applied to the fermented juice of the grape, so that those of the apple and pear are called cider and perry instead of apple or pear wine. During fermentation the grape-sugar in the juice is converted into alcohol, and, by keeping, the tartar (acid tartrate of potash) and tannin are deposited, and ethers formed, on which the bouquet (odour) of the wine depends. The wines of different countries vary in their strength, quality, flavour, and price, but almost every one of the wine-producing countries makes one or more first-class wines. The first place must be assigned to France, and especially to the produce of the Bordeaux, Burgundy, and Champagne districts. The finest Bordeaux wines are the Chateaux Lafite, Haut Brion, Margaux, and Latour, but they are very high-priced, and can compara- tively rarely be obtained in an ordinary way; but St.Julien, St. Estephe, Margaux, and Catenae are very good. The best Bordeaux white wines are those from the Chateaux Yquem, Latour Blanche, and Haut Sauterne, all of which are sweetish and obtained from over-ripe grapes. Ordinary Sauterne and Barsac are the produce of mixed grapes, and are comparatively cheap. The best red Burgundy wines are Romance, Clos de Vougeot, and Chambertin; and the best white wines are those of Montrachet, and Mersault. Volnay, Corton, Beaune and Chablis are lower- priced but good wines. Champagne is a well-known sparkling wine, which is extensively imitated, so that unless a good brand be purchased, the sparkling wines of St.Peray, Vouvray,and even of Saumur are to be preferred. The quantity of wine produced in France in 1873 was returned as 786,088,916 gallons, and the value at nearly ^60,000,000, but of this only ^3,135,034 worth was im- ported into this country; and in 1876 it was less—viz., ;^2,SI7,978. The best wines of Germany are very high-priced, and are rarely mixed with spirit, or, as it is termed, “ fortified.” The best vintages of Johannisberg, Steinberger, Riides- heimer, Rauenthalerberg, and some others, like those of the best French wines, are rarely to be bought except at very high prices, as the first named has been sold in the cellars at 15s. per bottle, and even more. Fine Geisen- heimer and Hockheimer are also dear; but ordinary Hockheimer, Ingelheimer, Bodenheimer, and others are to be obtained at low rates. All these are white wines—indeed, Germany produces only one good red wine, viz., Assmannshauser. The wines of the Moselle are not so strong as those just mentioned, whilst some from Bavaria, Deidesheimer, Forster, Leisten, and Stein wine, are stronger than Moselle, and dear if good. The sparkling German wines are now largely imported into this country. Austria sends only a little here, but the wines of Hungary, although scarcely known a few years ago, are now somewhat extensively imported. The best of these is the highly esteemed Imperial Tokay and Sweet Ruster, which is much like the inferior kinds of Tokay. Olden- burger is not so strong, but is a pleasant wine. Bakator and Somlauer are stronger, while Carlowitz is a good- bodied red wine. Italy sends us but few wines—the chief being Capri, a light pleasant wine ; Lachryma Christi, of which there are red and white; and Marsala, which is chiefly drunk in the place of sherry. Greece supplies us with several kinds of very good wines, especially white St. Elie, which has, when old, an aromatic and yet fresh taste, and is peculiarly suited for dinner. Red Hymettus, which is much like Burgundy; Patras, which somewhat resembles Port; Bacchus wine,, and red Santorin, are all fine wines. Port, as usually prepared for the English market, is. highly fortified with common spirit, and requires to be kept for many years; but the wine, as drunk in Portugal, is comparatively light and fresh-flavoured. The best comes from the vicinity of the Douro. There is also a white port from the Carcavellos district, which is of a topaz colour with a rich muscat flavour. Spain sends us large supplies of numerous wines grouped together under the name of sherry, which differ very con- siderably in colour, flavour, and potency. Amontillado, a rather light dry wine ; Vino de Pasto, which, wheni good, is a light, dry, and fine-flavoured wine; Montilla, which is dark, and fuller, with a nutty flavour; Oloroso,, a fragrant and highly-flavoured wine, with Amorosa andi Solera are amongst the best. Madeira was largely drunk in this country at one time. It is very full-flavoured, nutty, and strong ; but when young is too sweet for ordinary drinking. The vines were destroyed by disease in 1852, and were not replanted until about 1859; so that, unless a new wine be bought, a rather high price must be paid for fine wine. The quantity produced in 1876 was 10,000 pipes. Australia has sent us some fine wines grown from the best kinds of French and German vines, so that, when good, they possess very much of the qualities of Her- mitage, Chambertin, Burgundy, or of some of the Rhine wines. British wines contain the acids of the fruit such as malic, tartaric, and others, which are deposited after fermenta- tion, as is the case with the grape wines, so that sugar has to be added, and the wines consequently disagree with many persons. SEASONABLE FOOD. JULY. Meat.—Beef, veal, mutton, grass-lamb, house-lamb, pork, venison. Poultry, Game, &^c.—Fowls, chickens, pullets, ducks, green geese, turkey poults, pigeons, wood-pigeons, rabbits, leverets, plovers, wheatears. Fisk.—Eels, dace, dory, conger eels, cod, carp, brill, barbel, crabs, crayfish, flounders, herrings, haddock, mackerel, ling, lobsters, trout, mullet, plaice, pike, soles, salmon, skate, tench, perch, dabs, prawns, whiting. Vegetables.—Kidney, Windsor, and scarlet beans, aspa- ragus, artichoke, celery, endive, carrots, chervil, lettuces, mushrooms, potatoes, peas, salsify, spinach, sorrel, rad- ishes, small salad, turnips. Friiits.—Apples, pears, oranges, pine-apples, cherries, currants, damsons, melons, gooseberries, strawberries, raspberries, plums, peaches, nectarines.