355 CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. portions. At the same time, it is an error to supply too concentrated a kind of diet. If, when in health, children are invariably kept nourished at high-pressure mark, there is no resource for them in store, when in sickness further stimulants are needed. Liver, hearts, and soup composed of liquor in which meat has been boiled and thickened with rice and vegetables may be advantageously eaten, in turn with prime joints. Regularity of meals is a matter of almost as much importance as the quality of the food. Of whatever kind the repast may be, a certain time is required for the work of digestion, and a proper amount^ of rest is needful before the labour re-commences. Three meals a day for healthy persons are sufficient, provided the quality of the food be of a nutritious kind. Children that are continually craving for food are either imperfectly nourished or they are in ill-health. From four to six hours is the right interval to observe between meals, according to the age of the individual. In order to render the above period of abstinence endurable, the repast should be of a varied and substantial kind. Breakfast of weak tea and baker’s bread and butter, for instance, will not suffice for a growing child till dinner time—five hours afterwards—without a great deal of self-denial. But if good oatmeal porridge, a pint of bread and milk, or a fair quantity of boiled bacon or eggs, with unlimited bread and butter constitute the meal, the promptings of a craving appetite should be afterwards unheeded. At dinner, meat and vegetables should form the principal fare, followed by pudding; stewed fruit and bread and butter, or bread and jam, in place of pudding. If soup be eaten instead of meat, a good pudding should follow ; for although ordinary soup may satisfy hunger for a time, it is not the same “stay-by” as more solid food. Tea, as a meal, is in many families a delusion. Although the refreshing cup, accompanied by a slice or two of bread and butter or toast, may answer the purpose well enough for adults who have the prospect of a supper before going to bed, neither quality nor quantity is sufficient for young people. Dr. Grosvenor Wilson feelingly remarks : “ I have secured to many a child a reasonable evening meal by suggesting to the mother the mere use of the word ‘ supper ’ as the name of the third meal.” And this is precisely the change that we would wish to see established in every household. It is deplorable to think of the number of hours craving little stomachs suffer, without food between the time of going to bed, say at seven o’clock, and rising twelve hours afterwards, not partaking of nourishment in the interval, under the impression that suppers are unwholesome. A proper meal in place of the ordinary “ tea ” will be found to consist in some of the following additions— cocoa, made with as much milk as the parents can afford ; bread and butter, with or without cheese ; stewed fruit, hot in the winter, and cold in the summer; a milky rice pudding to which finely-shred beef-suet has been added ; plain boiled rice and treacle ; or, if possible, some eggs ; cold boiled bacon or meat. The additional expense any of the above articles may appear to entail will not be all loss. Less need will be felt for tonics, from the febrile maladies too often occasioned in early life by children being under- fed. Another demand may also cease, namely, for cakes and sweetmeats “ to put under the pillow.” In addition to the three meals a-day alluded to, growing boys and girls who have lessons to prepare in the evening require a little light nourishment before going to bed. A cup of cocoa and a slice of bread act beneficially on their constitution ; for we must ever bear in mind that, although still beneath a parent’s roof, children under tuition are actually engaged in the great business of life, and their constitutions require support to meet the wear and tear of mind and body under forced labour and restraint. I ■ Wine and beer are, under ordinary circumstances, not ! necessary for growing children. Plain water best aids ' digestion. This beverage should not exceed in quantity I half a pint at meals, although an unlimited supply may be permitted afterwards. A depressed state of constitution may, however, require stimulants. In the case of many of the foregoing remarks it must, of course, be understood that we are supposing economy to be a consideration. GARDENING.—XVI. THE VEGETABLE GARDEN {continued froyn p. 331). The Dwarf French Bean.—This is an annual, and its constitution and habits are very similar to those of the runner, only it has not a running stem, neither is it so prolific or long-bearing as the former. The young unripe pods are used as in the former case ; in addition to which, while these are quite young, and not more than an inch long nor thicker than a straw, they are greatly esteemed for pickling. The varieties generally cultivated are the early yellow dwarf, early red speckled, early black or negro, early white, Battersea white, Canter- bury white, black speckled, dun-coloured, and large white dwarf. The dwarfs will bear sowing a little sooner than the larger growing kinds, and will come in somewhat earlier. They are more convenient to cultivate on a large scale, and are also considered by many to be more delicate in flavour. For the first early crop sow the early yellow, early black or negro, or the early red speckled ; and for a rather later crop the early white is the best, and is generally considered superior to the others in flavour. The Canter- bury and Battersea are decidedly the bast for main crops. The dwarf kidney bean does not continue in bearing more than three weeks or a month, so that it is necessary to sow a successional crop or two in order to have a continuance until the runners come in, or for a regular succession throughout the summer. Half a pint will sow a row eighty feet long, the beans being placed from two and a half to three inches apart in the drill. This bean, like the runner, delights in a rich and light soil, and for early crops it should be rather sandy and dry; but for later ones a moist loam is more congenial. You should commence sowing the various kinds of dwarf beans about the first week in April, provided the weather be fine and open. The best situation is a dry south border, although it is not absolutely necessary to their well-doing at all times. Draw drills two feet apart and an inch and a half or two inches deep, for the smaller sized beans, dropping them into the drills rather close together, in order to allow for a failure, which is almost certain to happen at this early season. For main crops, other portions must be sown towards the end of April, and in May and June, in order to have a continual supply. For later crops the drills may be drawn two feet and a half asunder, two inches deep, and the beans be placed from two to two and a hall inches apart in the rows. If a late crop is desired, a moderate sowing should be made about the beginning of August. Crops sown late should, as a rule, be favoured with the best situation the garden can afford, otherwise they will not turn out to your satisfaction. It is not worth the trouble to grow very late crops of dwarf beans, as the runners, under proper management, will continue bearing until frost cuts them off; and that will, as a matter of course, be very late in the season. The beans for summer sowing would be greatly accelerated in their germination provided they were soaked in soft water for six or eight hours previous to sowing. As the plants of different crops advance in growth, hoe and stir the surface between the rows, and cut down all weeds as they appear, and draw a little earth to the stems, which will tend very much to encourage the growth of the plants as w'ell as to increase