203 CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. in rubbing the forehead with one hand while you strike the breast with the other, standing up in the room for the performance. If correct time is not kept, in the judgment of the company, another forfeit is to be paid. To the forfeits for a lady given in the previous paper may be added— 1. To kiss a Gentleman “ Rabbit Fashion.’'—-This is usually a source of great amusement to the rest of the party. The lady has the privilege of choosing any gentle- man present. A piece is broken off a reel of cotton, and the lady takes one end of the piece in her mouth, while the gentleman takes the other in the same way. They then both nibble the cotton until the kiss ensues, as a matter of course. If the gentleman is sufficiently gallant, he will perform the chief part of the “ nibbling” process. The company may exercise their discretion as to the length of the cotton. 2. To sing a Song., or play a Piece of Music.—This is given either to elicit the musical capabilities of a lady who may be shy, or to make an agreeable interlude in the round of other forfeits. If the lady called upon can really do neither, another forfeit is allotted to her. 3. Ask a Question to which “ Ves ” must be the Answer. —This is a great puzzle to any one who is not in the secret. The unfortunate forfeiter may ask all kinds of questions, without eliciting the answer required for her release. But if she simply inquires, “What does y-e-s spell?” there cannot be any other reply. 4. To kiss the Gentle7nan you love best in the Cotnpany, without any one knowing it.—There is only one way of paying this penalty, and that is, to kiss every gentleman in the room, leaving them to settle the question as to “ loving best ” amongst them. 5. To put yourself through the Keyhole.—This is one of those quibbles upon words, for which persons called upon to pay forfeits should watch, as they are often in use. We give this as an example. The forfeit is paid by writing “yourself” upon a piece of paper, and passing that through the keyhole. 6. To kiss each Corner of the Rootn.—When this forfeit is declared, a gentleman stations himself in each corner, and the lady has to pay an unexpected penalty. 7. To spell “ Constantinople.^-—This must be done in the old schoolmistress’s fashion—“ C-o-n, Con, with a Con, s-t-a-n, Stan, with a stan,” &c.; but, after the third syllable, the company attempt to embarrass the speller by crying out, “No! No!” as if a mistake had been made. To this, the proper reply is, “Thank youthe fourth syllable is then spelt, and the fifth completes the task. 8. To form a Rifle Corps.—The lady goes to one end of the room, and calls up a gentleman, who stands oppo- site to her. The gentleman then calls a lady, who stands at his side ; and she in turn names a gentleman, who places himself opposite to her. So the calling goes on, until all present are included. If the number of ladies and of gentlemen present is unequal, the more mirth is created by the last persons called standing opposite one of their own sex. When all are called, the word is given by the first gentleman in the rank, “ Present arms.” All then join hands with the persons opposite ; and the next command is “ Salute,” which is done in osculatory fashion. We conclude our list of forfeits with a few contrived to include more than one member of the company. I. Either a lady or a gentleman may be called upon to “ sit on the Stool of Repentance.” He or she must then sit in the centre of the room, while one of the party goes round to inquire, in a whisper, of each person present, what the repentant individual “looks like.” The reply may be “wise,” “silly,” “pitiable,” “beautiful,” &c., according to circumstances. The answers are repeated openly to the forfeiter, with the question after each, “ Who said that ?” If the right name iS guessed, as is often the case, the person who made the particular observation j must then sit on the “ stool ” in turn, and so on until the company are satisfied with the round. 2. A lady is required to “be Postman.” She. is to go outside the room, and rap on the door, when one of the company inquires, “ Who’s there ?” The answer is, “ The postman, with a letter for ,” any gentleman she likes to name. “ How many seals ?” Whatever the answer may be, the gentleman may exact so many kisses ; and he in turn remains outside, and declares he has a letter for a lady. So the forfeit proceeds, a lady calling a gentleman, and a gentleman a lady, until the company have all been called, but no person present is bound to answer twice. 3. When the calling of forfeits has been continued long enough, and several remain, which it is desired to clear off together, the forfeiters may be called upon to perform a “ Musical Medley.” Each one must then sing some verse or stanza of a song, no two choosing the same melody, but all commencing and singing together. The effect is generally so grotesque as to produce shouts of laughter. ODDS AND ENDS. To loosen Glass Stoppers.—A very common source of trouble and vexation is the fixed stopper of a smelling- bottle, or of a decanter ; and as in the case of all frequent evils many methods have been devised for its remedy. Some of these methods we shall enumerate, i. Hold the bottle or decanter firmly in the hand, or between the knees, and gently tap the stopper on alternate sides, using for the purpose a small piece of wood, and directing the strokes upward. 2. Plunge the neck of the vessel into hot water, taking care that the water is not hot enough to split the glass. If after some immersion the stopper is still fixed, recur to the first process. 3. Pass a piece of list round the neck of the vessel, which must be held fast while two persons draw the list backwards and forwards. This will warm the glass, and often enable the hand to turn the stopper. 4. Warm the neck of the vessel before the fire, and when it is nearly hot, the stopper can be generally moved. 5. Put a few drops of oil round the stopper where it enters the glass vessel, which may then be warmed before the fire. Next take the decanter or bottle, and employ the process No. i, de- scribed above. If it continues fixed, add another drop of oil to the stopper, and place the vessel again before the fire. Then repeat the tapping with the wood. If the stopper continues still immovable, give it more oil, warm it afresh, and rub it anew, until it gives way, which it is almost sure to do in the end. 6. Take a steel pen or a needle, and run it round the top of the stopper in the angle formed by it and the bottle. Then hold the vessel in your left hand, and give it a steady twist towards you with the right, and it will very often be effectual, as the adhesion is frequently caused by the solidification of matter only at the point nearest the air. If this does not succeed, try process No. 5, which will be facilitated by it. By com- bining the two methods numbered 5 and 6, we have extracted stoppers which had been long fixed, and given up in despair after trying the usual plans. Broken stoppers are best left to professional hands. Liquid Glue and Cement.—Take of crushed orange- shellac four ounces, of rectified spirit of wine (strong), or rectified wood naphtha, three ounces. The rectified spirit of wine makes a far superior composition, but the other is good enough for all ordinary work. Dissolve the shellac in the spirit, in a corked bottle in a warm place ; frequent shaking will assist it in dissolving, and it should also be shaken before use. This composition may be used as a varnish for unpainted wood. Perpetual Paste.—Take one ounce of gum tragacanth or gum dragon; pick it clean, and put it into a wide- mouthed vessel of glass or white ware capable of con-