122 POULTRY. In April and May broods, such a limitation is not needed; but even then eleven or twelve chickens are quite as many as a large, well-feathered hen can properly nourish, and the eggs should only be one or two in excess of that number. A good hen will not remain more than half an hour away from her nest, unless she has been deprived of a dust-bath, and so become infested with lice, which some- times causes hens thus neglected to forsake their eggs altogether. When a hen at the proper time shows no disposition to return, she should be quietly driven towards her nest; if she be caught, and replaced by hand, she is often so frightened and excited as to break the eggs. A longer absence is not, however, necessarily fatal to the brood. We have had hens repeatedly absent more than an hour, which still hatched seven or eight chicks ; and on one occasion a hen sitting in the fowl-house returned to the wrong nest, and was absent from her own more than five hours. We of coui'se considered all chances of hatching at an end; but as the hen had been sitting for a fortnight, concluded to let her finish her time, and she hatched five chickens. We have heard of a few hatching even after nine hours’ absence, and therefore would never, on account of such an occurrence, abandon valuable eggs without a trial. The chickens break the shell at the end of the twenty-first day, on an average; but if the eggs are new-laid, it will often lessen the time by as much as five or six hours, while stale eggs are always more or less behind. We never ourselves now attempt to assist a chick from the shell. If the eggs are fresh, and proper care has been taken to preserve moisture during incubation, no as- sistance is ever needed. To fuss about the nest frets the hen exceed- ingly; and we have always found that even where the poor little creature survived at the time, it never lived to maturity. Should the reader attempt such assistance, in cases where an egg has been long “chipped,” and no further progress made, let the shell be cracked gently all round, without tearing the inside membrane ; if that be perforated, the viscid fluid inside dries, and glues the chick to the shell. Should this happen, or should both shell and membrane be perforated at first, introduce the point of a pair of scissors, and cut up the egg towards the large end, where there will be an empty space, re- membering that if blood flow all hope is at an end. Then put the chick back under the hen; she will probably squeeze it to death, it is true, it being so very weak ; but it will never live if put by the fire—at least, we always found it so. Indeed, as we have said, we consider it quite useless to make the attempt at all. Cleanliness in the house and run has already been insisted upon, and is only again alluded to on account of the value of the manure. This, collected daily, should be put in any convenient receptacle where it can be kept dry, and either used in the garden, if there is one, or sold. It pays best to use it, where possible; it should always be mixed with earth, being very strong, and is especially valuable for all plants of the cabbage kind; it is also excellent for growing strawberries, or, indeed, almost any- thing, if sufficiently diluted. If there be no possibility of so using it, it is ’worih about seven shillings per cwt. to sell, and is greatly valued by all nurserymen and gardeners who know its value; but there is often difficulty in finding those who do, and getting a fair price. At seven shillings (which we believe to be about a fair value, compared with that of guano, on account of the moisture contained), or when it can be used in the garden, we consider the value of the manure equal to fully one-fifth—perhaps one-fourth would be nearer the mark—of the total profit from the fowls. It is, therefore, an item too important to be neglected. Where a considerable number of fowls are killed an- nually the feathers also become of value, and should be preserved. They are very easily dressed at home. Strip the plumage from the quiUs of the larger feathers, and mix with the small ones, putting the whole loosely in paper bags, which should be hung up in the kitchen, or some other warm place, for a few days to dry. Then let the bags be baked three or four times, for half an hour each time, in a cool oven, drying for two days between each baking, and the process will be completed. Eggs should be collected regularly, if possible twice every day ; and if any chickens are to be reared from the home stock, the owner or attendant should learn to recognise the egg of each par- ticular hen. Before concluding this article, it may be expected that something definite should be said respecting the actual profit of what may be called domestic poultry-keeping. It is extremely difficult to make any such statement, so much depends upon the price of food, upon the management, selection of stock, and value of eggs. But in general we have found the average cost of fowls, when properly fed, to be about id. per week each for ordi- nary sorts, and not exceeding i|d. per week for the larger breeds ; when the cost is more we should suspect waste. A good ordinary hen ought to lay 120 eggs in a year, and if good laying breeds are selected, there ought to be an aver- age of 150, not reckoning the cock. Of course, good management is supposed, and a regular renewal of young stock, as already insisted upon. For domestic purposes eggs ought to be valued at the price of new-laid, and from these data each can make his own calcu- lation. The value of the manure, when it can be sold or used, we consider is about qd. to i s. per annum for each fowL The whole undertaking—be it large or small—must be conducted as a real matter of business. If more than 1 three or four hens are kept, buy the food wholesale, and • in the best market; let the grain be purchased a sack at a time, potatoes by the cart-load or hundred-weight, and so on ; and let a fair and strict account be kept of the whole concern. The scraps of the house may be thrown in, and the cost of the original stock, and of their habita- tions, may be kept separate, and reckoned as capital ' invested ; but let everything afterwards for which cash is paid be rigorously set down, and, on the other side, with equal strictness, let every egg or chicken eaten or sold be also valued and recorded. This is of great importance. The young beginner may, perhaps, manage his laying stock well, but succeed badly with his chickens, or vice versdj and it is no small matter in poultry-keeping, as in any other mercantile concern, to be able to see from re- corded facts where has been the profit or where the loss. The discovery will lead to reflection ; and the waste, neglect, or other defective management being amended, the hitherto faulty department will also contribute its quota to the general weal. We shall deal with the rearing of chickens in our next paper.