CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. 219 sulphur, and lime-washing, with a liberal sprinkling about of any good carbolic disinfecting powder. It will be seen that by far the greater proportion of poultry diseases arise either from cold or wet, or neglect in preserving cleanliness—often from both causes com- bined. It should be noted also, that the first general symptom of fiearly all such diseases is diarrhoea, which we have observed usually manifests itself even in roup, before any discharge from the nostrils is perceptible. At this stage much evil may be warded off. Whenever a fowl hangs its wings, and looks drooping, let it be seen at once whether it appears purged, and if so, give immediately, in a table-spoonful of warm water, a tea-spoonful of strong brandy saturated with camphor. Repeat this next morning, and in most cases the disease, whatever it is, will be checked; care being of course taken to give the invalid warmth and good shelter, with ale in its food. If the evacuation continues, administer the stronger pre- scription given for diarrhoea. COOKERY.—XIII. PICKLES (continued from p. 196). j Pickled Gherkhis.—One of the few pickles in esteem in France, where a peculiar sort—the cornichon, short and 1' thick—is grown exclusively for pickling ; cucumbers being rarely eaten sliced, as with us. The smaller the gherkins I (from an inch to an inch and a half long), the more they : are esteemed: to insure which smallness, they are daily ; gathered from the beds, and thrown immediately into strong salt and water. When you have enough to fill j| your jar or jars, take them out of the brine, and drain f them. Peel shalots (or small onions), in the proportion I' of about one in ten to the number of gherkins. Have a few sprigs of fresh tarragon. Pack the gherkins in the jar, interspersing with them the shalots and a few tarragon I leaves. When the jar is nearly full, lay on the top some I sprigs of tarragon. Pour boiling vinegar over all. Spice may be boiled with it, but is not needful. If the gherkins are not green enough, you may pour off the vinegar after r awhile, and return it to them boiling hot. Our neighbours themselves care little about the colour; though, to please their customers, they sell gherkins in bottles made of green-tinted glass. Pickled Cucumbers, Tomatoes, and Beet-root.—We put ! these three articles together, on account of the difficulty of keeping them (especially the two last) pickled, without moulding. The remedy is, to extract the natural juices ij by the application of salt, which also robs them of their j flavour. Cucumbers are cut, without peeling them, either l[ into lengths across, and the seeds removed with an apple- ji scoop ; or lengthwise, also removing the seeds. After several saltings, they are put into a jar, and covered with hot vinegar, seasoned with spice. Green tomatoes, left j whole, are treated similarly. The addition of either of !i the three to other pickles, is apt to mould them. They require attention, for the moment mould appears, they ! niust be taken out of the jar, wiped, put into a fresh jar, and their vinegar poured over them, after boiling up. Garden beet alone hardly makes a pickle. The best way of using it is to bake it in a very slow oven, and then to slice it as wanted for incorporating with salads, &c. Green potato berries have been pickled to pass for toma- toes, which is a very dangerous practice. Pickled Samphire.—The true samphire (Shakespeare’s Crithmum maritimuni) is now a rare plant. When you are so fortunate as to come into possession of it, divide it into small sprigs, rinse them well, lay them ; to drain in the sun, and leave them there till the I leaves begin to flag a little; which, being succulent, I they are in no very great hurry to do. Place them in their jar, and cover them with hot vinegar containing a little salt but no spice, so as not to overpower their natural aromatic flavour. This plant is an umbellifer— i.e., bears flowers arranged like those in celery, parsley, &c. What ordinarily passes for samphire is a glasswort (Salicornia herbaced) common enough in salt marshes and on low muddy shores not often covered with the tide. It is not aromatic, but is full of soda; whence its English name, derived from its having at one time been employed in the manufacture of glass. It has even assumed the true samphire’s name of passe-pierre, from the belief prevalent amongst some people that the latter relieved patients troubled with gravel and stone. Pull glasswort into sprigs ; wash and drain them, and pour over them hot vinegar well charged with salt and spice. We have known glasswort to be boiled and eaten as a vegetable, from faith in its healing virtues. Pickled Nasturtium Buds and Seeds.—The first make the more delicate pickle, the latter are the more highly flavoured. Both must be gathered daily ; the buds before the petals protrude beyond the calyx, the seeds while they are still as soft as green peas. It suffices to throw either into good strong cold vinegar, and when the har- vest is over, to cork them down tightly. To say that nasturtium (properly, tropcBoluni) sauce makes a good substitute for caper sauce, is scarcely fair, because it is so good in itself, and the flavour so different to that of capers, that it may be left to stand upon its own merits. Other pretended substitutes for capers are the flower-buds of the marsh marigold (Caltha palustris), a ranunculus, and the unripe seeds of a garden species of spurge (Euphorbia), falsely called by country folks the caper plant. We mention them only to warn the reader against both. PRESERVES, ETC. Baked Apples for Children.—^Take a large earthen pot, and fill it to within three inches of the top with well-wiped apples of any sort you may have, but it is best they should be all of the same sort, in order to cook equally. Neither peel them nor remove the stalks. Pour over them, so as to cover them completely, a mixture of treacle or brown sugar and water. If the apples are windfalls, you may allow a little extra sweetening. It will be an im- provement if you can put here and there amongst them some pieces of orange or lemon-peel, and a few cloves. Cover the pot with a lid, or with doubled brown paper tied over it with string. Set it to pass the night in a spent baker’s oven. If the oven is too hot, the liquid in the pot will boil over or evaporate, and the apples be dried up or burnt. Baked Apples.—Take a flat, earthen dish, on this place, so close as just not to touch each other, a layer of apples which have received no other preparation than careful wiping. Set them in a gentle oven, in which they must be watched from first to last in order to cook them as slowly as possible, and prevent their bursting more than can be avoided. Much will depend upon the oven, something on the kind of apple. Serve, after cooling, on the same dish on which they were baked. Baked Apples.—Proceed as above, using a silver or a plated dish instead of an earthen one. When cold, sprinkle over them, for show, a slight dusting of finely- powdered lump sugar. Stewed Apples.—Take a large shallow stew-pan that will hold six or eight apples, enough, in short, to make a dish. Peel the apples and take out the cores with a scoop, leaving the fruit whole. Pour a film of water over the bottom of the stew-pan to prevent sticking and burning, then place the apples in it side by side in a single layer as closely as they will pack, drop in lump sugar to give the degree of sweetness liked, a few cloves, the rind of a lemon, and the juice of the same. Pour in enough water to cover them.