CASSELL’S HOUSEHOLD GUIDE. 193 HOUSEHOLD DECORATIVE ART.—VI. PAPER FLOWER MAKING. The art of paper flower making is an elegant one, and capable of very high perfection. It has also this merit, that, unlike many accomplishments, the very earliest attempts of amateurs are at least pretty, even if unfit to decorate the drawing-room. Paper flowers, when entirely made by hand, are not very expensive. The component white paper models of every size of petal which it bears. Mark on every sized petal you take as a pattern how many of that size the flower contains. Then cut them out in paper of corresponding colour, and make them up, as closely imitating the real flower as you possibly can. At first it will be well to make up a few flowers from the outlined patterns we shall give. If these are practised through the winter months, the learner will be able by the li ! I t t > I I 1 i ~ ~ ~ Fig. 2. I parts for forming most of the flowers can be purchased prepared, and in that case, of course, become more costly. A little skill is needed to put them together rightly, they do not cost a third what the finished flowers do. A rose is one of those flowers the parts of which cannot be had ready to purchase, and it is not a difficult flower to make ; we will therefore first give our readers direc- tions to construct it. It must not be forgotten that the object of the paper flower maker is to imitate nature as closely as possible ; therefore the learner should observe flowers well. When- ever it is possible, obtain a fine specimen of whatever flower you desire to copy from the garden or conservatory. Examine it well, and then pick it to pieces. Cut out in 13—N.s, summer to copy from nature, and keep by her her own patterns taken from the flowers of her own garden. To make paper flowers a few tools will be required. A pair of wooden goffers, which will form bowls of four different sizes, and resemble the illustration. Fig. i ; a pair of steel pincers. Fig. 2 ; a fine pair of scissors, with long points ; some cement; a reel of very fine green flower-wire, and some strong wire for the stems. It is easier for a beginner to fill a basket than a vase, because in a basket the flowers are closer packed and less critically observed. Rather stiff stems suit best for a basket; but for a vase the finer and more flexible wire is needed. The stems are not seen in a basket, and may be made stronger. Choose plain wire, uncovered. Either for