2o6 OCCUPATIONS ACCESSIBLE TO WOMEN. OCCUPATIONS ACCESSIBLE TO WOMEN.—IV. ELEMENTARY TEACHING. The great difficulty of the educational question in the present day, and the obstacle to complete success in the earnest efforts made, is the difficulty, almost impossibility, of finding sufficiently-qualified teachers. The demand created by the Education Acts is estimated at over 25,000 of both sexes—the women, however, being in the majority. In addition to this, when we take into account the necessity for private tuition in hundreds of families in England, we shall see that the demand is an ever-increas- ing one. The lowest branch of the profession is that of nursery-governesses, and here we shall find great need of re-organisation ; for surely no grade in any profession should be worth so little as that often offered to the instruc- tress of children—“No salary, but a comfortable home.” Very few in this class, if paid, receive more than from £20 to ;^4o per annum—a sum frequently paid to good upper servants ; and in addition to being obliged to dress better, and be always in appearance like a lady, they are worse off than servants, as they are forced, iiolens volens, to take nearly two months’ holiday in the year, finding their own board and lodging, for the convenience of their employers. In the case of servants, board wages would have to be paid by an employer ; and the anxiety and distress caused to the unfortunate governess is frequently beyond description. Several of the Ladies’ Associations in London have taken up this subject, and have endea- voured to collect subscriptions to enable them to assist the most deserving objects brought under their notice. More particularly in the case of foreign governesses the evil of which we speak bears very cruelly, as they have neither home nor friends at hand. The drawback to the grade of nursery-governess seems to be the impossibility of self-improvement, which proves a bar, of course, to their advancement in their profession, or their attainment of such an education as would brighten their prospects in life. Young girls, suddenly reduced to poverty by the death or failure of their natural protectors, find in this their only opening for earning a livelihood, and begin life under the saddest auspices—half educated, untrained, and wholly unfitted for the great struggle of existence. In the time to come, when the English mind is more awakened to the necessity of careful and thorough training, and of some special education for every girl, we hope to see all this state of things altered. The training for a nursery-governess should begin, we think, with the Kin- dergarten system; and there is no doubt a great demand exists, even at present, for skilled instructors on this prin- ciple. Women thoroughly versed in the Friibel system, as taught in Germany by the disciples of Frobel, or in England at one of the places where the real system is taught, have a most profitable occupation open to them. A valuable help is offered to adult teachers, gover- nesses, and indeed to all those desirous of improving their education, and meeting the higher requirements of the day, through the “instruction by correspon- dence,” carried on by members of the University of Cambridge, with the view of helping women living at a distance to prepare for the examinations held there. This plan has been found so successful, that it is now proposed that a certain number of properly-qualified women shall undertake to instruct in a similar manner. The local e.xaminations of the Universities of Oxford, Cambridge, Durham, Edinburgh, and Dublin, for boys and girls under eighteen, are of very great value to those who are preparing to pass the higher course, and also to those who wish to obtain situations as governess-pupils in schools, or to act as governesses to young children in private families. The demand at present in upper-class girls’ schools. and in private families, for teachers holding some kind of certificate, is quite beyond all means of supply ; and amateur teachers, with no guarantee for their powers, are quite a drug in the market. Even the Government certificate, which represents the low, but thorough standard of attainment required for national schools, is much sought after; and it seems that, in future, the passing of some recognised form of examination, and the possession of some kind of a certificate, will be essential to, and ensures the success or failure of, every teacher’s future prospects. A very cursory glance into the advertisement columns of the daily press will prove to any one that if there be one branch more overstocked than another, it is that of daily governesses in London. The prices asked and paid are so small as to render it astonishing how body and soul can be kept together on such a pittance. Instruction in music, French, or German—in fact, in any foreign language—can be obtained in London at the cost of one shilling per lesson ; in some cases from natives of the various respective countries, as well as from English women. It seems surprising, under these circumstances, that more governesses—especially those who have the additional burden of aged and infirm relatives to support besides themselves—do not take to elementary teaching. The occupation commends itself as ensuring constant employment, fixed hours of labour, a small but indepen- dent home, and a salary, not large, perhaps, but, at any rate, above what can be earned by the drudgery of daily teaching, or as a private governess, except by the fortu- nate few who are very highly accomplished. Some hard study would, in some cases, be needed to supply the inaccuracy of the general style of a woman’s knowledge, as a very thorough grounding in elementary subjects is needful. Very few, even the most highly-educated of women, can work a sum in fractions or proportion with rapidity, much less explain every step of the process so clearly as to bring it within the comprehension of a class ; and how few who write good English from habit can teach the rules of grammar correctly. A certificate as an acting teacher is not difficult to gain, and is absolutely necessary; for although some small schools may be obtained at present without either training or certificate, the salaries are low and non- increasing, and the number of these schools will become fewer year by year. Within the last few years many ladies have qualified themselves to sit for certificates as acting teachers by serving six months as assistants in schools under certificated mistresses. This is the easiest method, and, for a governess who has reached mature years, and who cannot afford the time or expense necessary for a two years’ residence at a training college, is the best means to qualify. The school selected should be taught by a very good certificated master or mistress, where an assistant would be likely to learn the system of school drill and discipline, and also how practically to manage children en masse, according to the latest approved Government rules. In some schools, ' in the present dearth of certificated teachers, an assis- tant would be worth some small salary while qualifying, which would help her to live during her effort to improve her condition. While in the school she must obtain a favourable report from H.M. Inspector upon her qualifications as a teacher and disciplinarian. It is also needful that the corre- spondent of the school should make application to the Secretary of the Educational Department, before the ist of October, for permission for her to sit at the coming Christmas examination. This examination takes place at one of the Government Training Colleges, and is nearly identical with that which students of the various colleges are required to pass at the end of their first year’s residence.